348 MORBID ANATOMY. previously, for a supposed aneurism. (Hospital, 7, 28.) The vessel was obliterated, and towards the upper part was searcely traceable. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1750. A preparation, to show the state of the arteries four years after the left subclavian had been tied. Case pub- lished by Dr. J. C. Warren, in the twenty-ninth volume of the Med. Chirurg. Trans. (London, 1846), after the per- formance of the operation; and the final result by Dr. F. S. Ainsworth, in the American Jour, of Med. Sciences, Jan., 1850. The patient, a man, set. thirty-five, entered the hospital Dec. 23, 1843 (27, 281). The left shoulder had just been dislocated and reduced ; but there was great swelling and pain, with ecchymosis; and the axillary artery was sup- posed, without question, to have been ruptured. He be- came worse; the radial pulse ceased, and a tumor in the axilla opened on the 28th of January, and discharged a thin, bloody fluid, after which a feeble pulse returned. Oozing of blood continued; and, a copious hemorrhage having occurred on the 7th of February, the artery was tied on the following day, above the clavicle, by Dr. W. The pleural cavity was accidentally punctured during the opera- tion, but without any bad consequences. On the thirteenth day the ligature came away ; and on the twenty-third and thirty-third days hemorrhages took place to the amount of a pint and a half; but these were checked by a sponge tampon, and from that time he had very little trouble with the wound above the clavicle. The swelling in the axilla, however, continued to discharge pus, and was very pain- ful ; and on the 23d of March a large coagulum came away, with a copious discharge of pus, and relief to pain. From this time, until he left the hospital in September, 1845, he gradually improved ; but the axillary abscess con- tinued to discharge, and the shoulder-joint was immovable. Some months after his discharge he entered the almshouse, and there acted as a ward-tender until he died of dysentery in Oct., 1848. Having given up his body for dissection, the arteries were injected by Dr. Ainsworth, and the preparation made by him ; one-half of the thorax, with the scapula, being