113 HEALTHY ANATOMY. lbs. On dissection, the diaphragm was wanting upon the left side, and the stomach and spleen lay in the chest. The right lung was well, but the left consisted of but a single lobe. A left upper vena cava opened into the left auricle; and in the heart was an interventricular opening. The aorta sent off two very small iliacs, and a large vessel that ran straight along the median line to the umbilicus. The rectum ended in a cul-de-sac (No. 682), and the left lobe of the liver and spleen consisted, each, of several . small lobes. Two renal capsules, and one small, encysted kidney. Uterus in two portions, and a cavity in each; with a Fall, tube, and ovary for each, and perhaps a rudi- mentary vagina. Bladder wanting. A little cutaneous excrescence was attached to the lower part of the spine, but had no connection with the spinal membranes. The ischia were fused throughout, as shown in the preparation, but leaving a pelvic cavity of considerable size ; pubic bones much depressed and elongated, and the obturator foramina very closely approximated; sacrum very irregularly de- veloped. The femur was 3J in. in length, and formed by a fusion of two; convex in front, and flat behind, with two distinct heads, two inner condyles and no intervening one, and two patellae upon the back of the knee-joint. In most respects the preparation resembles one of Cruveilhier’s (Anal. Path. liv. 40, pi. 6, fig. 6). Tibia 1^ in. in length, tapered suddenly to a point, and terminated in three little phalangeal cartilages. The muscles about the thigh were well-developed, and most of them wei’e distinctly made out, but some were wanting The case occurred in the practice of Dr. PI., and the child, though so small, was carried to the full period; and during the fifteen or twenty minutes that it gasped after its biith, the heart was felt beating strongly in the right side of the chest. Quantity of liquor amnii exceedingly small. Cord short, and the placenta very small; and both had a diseased look. The heart, aorta, and umbilical artery, spleen and lungs, are shown upon a bent glass rod, and iu the same jar with the pelvis, etc. The other organs are also preserved ; and for a cast of the liver see No. 689. Dr. II. P. Hemenway, of Somerville. 8