368 MORBID ANATOMY. defined, rounded dilatations, and varying in size from nearly two to six lines. They involve, generally, a portion only of the circumference; and, to some extent, the sacs were situated regularly along one side of the vessel. The pari- etes of most of them were thick, hard, and cretaceous; the cavity being more or less encroached upon, and in some nearly obliterated, though in a few it was well marked. Otherwise the artery was healthy, as was the spleen itself. From an old woman, who died of ileus. 1856. Dr. C. Ellis. I have .met with the above disease of the splenic artery quite a number of times, and am not aware that it has been described, if even noticed. It seems to be not very uncom- mon, and will probably explain the cases of phlebolites in the splenic vein that are occasionally referred to. (Med. Jour. Vol. lvi. p. 297.) 1803. A second specimen; dried. One sac ossified, and very greatly thickened where it has been cut through. From an old woman, who died of cancer. 1859. Dr. C. Ellis. 1804. A third specimen; in spirit; from the same patient as the last. Dilatation and ossification of the parietes of the artery are just commencing. 1859. Dr. C. Ellis. 1805. A fourth specimen; cut open and showing a small and quite defined aneurism, the parietes of which are ossified. — From an old woman who died of pneumonia. 1861. Dr. D. W. Cheever. 1806. Aneurism of the right common iliac artery, about the size of a goose-egg ; cut open, and shows that it is formed, mainly at least, by a dilatation of the parietes ; also that it is filled with coagula. A small portion of the aorta, just above the sac, is seen to be diseased; and the ext. and int. iliacs just below it are dilated. From a man who died of apoplexy. (Hospital, 251, 78.) 1862. Dr. C. Ellis. 1807. A defined, rounded, aneurismal tumor, about as large as the fist, and situated at the left groin; the external iliac having been tied by Dr. W. One-half of the pelvis has been preserved, and the arteries, with the sac, are injected.