425 MORBID ANATOMY. 2111. A second, and almost precisely similar specimen. The bean, which was tightly wedged into the right primary bronchus, had swelled so as to distend its calibre. The right lung was collapsed and solidified, so as to sink in water ; and the left was infiltrated with lymph. From a little girl, two years old, who had been playing witli beans, and fell as she was running down hill. She was picked up, choking and gasping, and it was thought that one of the beans had passed down the larynx. Twen- ty-four hours afterward Dr. H. saw her at the hospital as an out-patient, with moderate dyspnoea, sublividity, a feeble pulse, anxious countenance, and an occasional cough ; but at no time had there been any paroxysm of cough, or of sudden d}rspnoea. On percussion there was a greater dulness upon the left side of the chest than upon the right. On auscultation the air seemed to enter both lungs with a strong tubular sound ; and over the left, where this was most marked, there was a hoarse, croupy murmur, so that the foreign body was thought to be upon that side. An opening was then made into the trachea, and up into the larynx ; but no foreign body was expelled, nor was any felt by the curved forceps. Inversion, and slapping smart- ly upon the back, were also tried without effect. After the operation the child gradually sank, and died thirty hours after the accident. Dr. H. remarked upon the error of diagnosis in regard to the position of the bean, in conse- quence of the pneumonia, which came on so rapidly, and had been overlooked. (Med. Jour. Yol. lxix. p. 298.) Dr. R. M. Hodges. 2112. A silver half-franc piece, that was accidentally swal- lowed. Six weeks afterward Dr. O. saw the patient, who was a frenchman ; and, though the man was very sure that the coin was somewhere in the larynx, Dr. O. could not, on the most careful laryngoscopic examination, detect it, noi were the symptoms at all urgent. The patient was placed upon a couch, with his head and chest hanging over the side, so that his body was nearly in a perpendicular position; and in this position he coughed forcibly, and was struck several times upon the back. The cough be- came suffocative, and something was felt to move in the