(548 MORBID ANATOMY. head of an adult; rounded, defined, knobbed, and quite solid to the feel. On incision, the structure seems to be fibio-cellular ; but in the centre is a cavity, occupying one- third or more of the whole mass, and filled with a°com- pletely broken-down, curdy substance, with some of the original tissue. There is also one cyst upon the surface larger than an English walnut. No appearance of vasou- larity nor of malignancy. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 2989. A tumor, of a regular, flattened, oval form, 2£ in. by If in.; microscopically fibrous, and removed from the integu- ments over the lower front part of the chest of a middle- aged man. It had been forming for some years, and with- out pain. On section, it appeared like straw-colored fat; pale, homogeneous, and glistening. 1862. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 2990. A tumor from the palm of the hand ; and showing, mi- cioscopically, nothing but fibrous tissue. Diameters about 2 in., 1J in., and ^ in. Remarkably lobulated, like a fatty tumor, but very dense to the feel after removal. From a sailor, set. twenty-three years. (Hospital, 93, 68.) The tumor appeared seven years before, had grown slowly, and was never painful, though the surface was sometimes irritated by his work. Motion of the fingers not affected. On examination, it appeared to be about 1£ in. in diameter, soft, fluctuating like a fatty tumor, not movable, and not affected by the motion of the fingers. Situated between the skin and palmar fascia; readily removed, and the man did well. 1860. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. 2991. A cast to show the tumor, in the above case, before the operation. Taken by Mr. J. G. Blake, one of the house- pupils. 1860. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 2992. A rounded, pedunculated tumor, that hung off from the calf of the leg ; about 2 in. in diameter. Microscopically fibrous ; a portion was reddened, and had quite a malignant look ; but this wras attributed to inflammation. From a man about thirty years of age. Tumor forming for a year or more, and not painful, though much irritated by his clothes. 1852. Dr. S. ParJanan.