579 MORBID ANATOMY. The tumor weighed 2£ lbs.; but, with the fluid that was removed from it, it was estimated at 8 lbs. It consisted mainly of two or three large cysts, the inner surface of which was everywhere covered with a soft fibrinous sub- stance, mixed with a thick puriform fluid. The appear- ances were suspicious, but “ nothing decidedly cancerous” was found microscopically. (See Med. Jour. Vol. lxx. p. 89. For more than a year the patient was quite well, and gained 40 lbs. of flesh, with disappearance of the ascites and oedema. In the spring of 1865 she was much chilled by exposure to a cold rain, sickened from that time, and died in Jan. 1866. The ascites returned, and she was tapped four times ; for the first time in July, after which a tumor was felt, that proved, on dissection, to be a large and well-marked cancerous development of the right ovary, ■which was healthy at the time of the operation. The ute- rus and other organs were healthy; and the peritoneum much more healthy than at the time of the operation. 1866. . Dr. II. G. Clark. 2723. Fibrous disease of the ovary. It forms a pretty regu- laily oval mass, about 4 in. in length, 3 in. in width, and 2 in. in thickness ; has a fine fibro-cellular structure, and is as dense as if scirrhous. Microscopically, nothing was found but fibrous tissue. From an old woman, of whom very little was known. The other organs were healthy. In the Med. Soc.’s Cabi- net (No. 682) is an ovary, very similar in appearance, and as large as a small muskmelon; from a cancerous subject. 1861 * • Dr. Sydney II. Carney. 2724. Both ovaries, removed during life. They are of an oval • form; one being 8 in., and the other 5£ in. in length. Structure fibrous. Firm to the feel in the recent state, though everywhere infiltrated with serum. Many firm gran- ulations were seen upon the surface, and a number of red- dish nodules, from a quarter to half an inch in diameter; a cyst, about \ in. in diameter in one, and a little pus in the other. I he patient, a married woman, set. thirty-six years, was quite well until April, 1859, when the catamenia ceased,