MORBID ANATOMY. G42 some-points. There was then a considerable amount of ascites, and afterward some oedema of the lower extremi- ties. In April, 1861, the abdomen measured 52 in. in cir- cumference, and was smooth and symmetrical. In May general convulsions came on, and in two days he died. On dissection, the peritoneum contained a little serum, but was quite he'althy. The diaphragm was pushed up to the fourth rib ; the arch of the colon lay above the tumor, and was firmly adherent to it; and the ascending portion, with the whole of the small intestine, lay behind the tumor, and in the right lumbar region. The origin of the tumor, which was extensively adherent, seemed to have been from the sub-serous cellular tissue upon the left side. — The spleen, and a portion of the arch of the colon are shown in the cast, to indicate the different parts of the tumor. 18G1. Museum Fund. 2981. Portions of bone from the above tumor. 1861. Dr. C. Ellis. 2982. An enlarged and admirable drawing, in India ink, of a woman in whom there was formed a tumor that was pei- haps as large as any that has ever been recorded. The estimated weight of the tumor, alone, at the time of her death, was not far from 275 lbs.; and the weight of the patient, without it, was probably not 100 lbs. The sketch . was copied by Mr. Bolles from a daguerreotype, which is also shown. A history of the case, with a wood-cut, was published in the Ohio State Medical Society’s Transactions, in 1851, by the late Dr. Phillip J. Buckner, of Cincinnati, who went two hundred and twenty miles to see the patient, and who took with him a daguerreotypist, in order that he might have a drawing to accompany his report of the case. The patient having died in 1854, the late Prof. John Delamater, of Cleveland, who had seen the patient during life, pub- lished in the Cleveland Medical Gazette, Aug. 1st, 1859, a full history of the case, with a wood-cut similar to Dr. B.’s ; and, in his report, he incorporated portions of Dr. B.’s, with the written statements of Drs. C. II. Beach and D. I. Johns, who were the principal attendants upon the patient, and of Dr. J. W. Smith, who had charge of her