468 MORBID ANATOMY. parts as to be crowded together. The fat, with which the whole intestine was perfectly loaded, having been removed by a laborious dissection, the intestine has been inflated and dried; the sacs being extremely thin. No. 1017, in the Med. Soc.’s Cabinet, was from the same individual, has been similarly prepared, and shows the sacs scattered along as far as the rectum. From a gentleman, set. sixty-five years, who had had cardiac symptoms, was very corpulent, and ,a great eater. 1852. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2242-3. Sacculated dilatation of the intestine; cut open and preserved in spirit; and a second, inflated and dried, with a portion of the intestine. From a farmer, set. seventy-two years, who died, after a sickness of twelve hours, with “coffee-ground” vomit- ing. Nine or ten hernial protrusions of the mucous membrane were found, as large, or larger than the intestine itself; and nearly all of them were in the upper part of the jeju- num, though one or two were nearer the ileum. There were also several quite small sacs. Some of them were within 2 or 3 in., and others some feet apart. Some were on the attached portion, as in Sir A. Cooper’s case, above referred to, and others upon the free portion of the intestine. 1856. Dr. Jas. R. Wellman, of Fitcliburg. 2243£. A portion of small intestine, from an infant that lived three days, and greatly dilated; inflated and dried. Thirty-seven inches below the duodenum the intestine was completely closed by a membranous diaphragm, and meas- ured, at the largest part, l£ in. in diameter ; the diameter below the obstruction being about two and a half lines. (See No. 945, with a figure, in the Catalogue of the Med. Soc.’s Cabinet.) 1869. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2244. A portion of intestine that, protruded from the anus, after much straining, on the sixteenth day of dysentery, and was cut off with a pair of scissors ; a few drops of blood only following the incision. The patient, set. six months, had prolapsus daily for the first six days, and occasionally afterward, but in the course of three months was quite well.