MOEBID ANATOMY. 588 2747. A uterus, showing two polypi arising from the centre of the fundus, close together, and remarkably symmetrical. In the recent state the}1- were nearly an inch in length, about £ in. in diameter, and of a deep red color. — From a woman, get. fifty-five, who had had occasional flowing for five years, and died at last from cancerous disease of the ovaries. 18G9. Dr. Benjamin Cushing. 2748. A regular and somewhat oval tumor, 12 in. in circum- ference, and 2£ in. where it was attached to the inner edge of the os uteri. The surface is smooth, the structure tough, uniform, fibro-cellular, and, in the recent state, it was distinctly vascular. The patient was thirty-five years of age, had had a bearing-down sensation, with dysuria for three or four years, and of late an occasional slight hemorrhage. The tumor, which filled the entire pelvis, was removed by the ecraseur, and less than an ounce of blood was lost. In ten days the patient was about her house, and she soon recov- ered. 1863. Dr. D. H. Storer. 2749. A polypiform tumor, removed by the ecraseur; of a globular form, smooth upon the external surface, and weighing 4 oz. Structure shown on incision. The patient had had profuse menorrhagia for years; became perfectly anaemic, and was thought by her ph}Tsi- cian to be dying when the operation was done by Dr. S., who saw her in consultation. Recovery complete. 1866. Dr. II. R. Storer. 2750. A uterine polypus, tough in consistence, and that much resembled a common fibrous tumor. Form that of a regu- lar, flattened sphere, 14 in. in diameter, and ^ in* *n thick- ness ; with large blood-vessels upon the cut surface. From a married woman, aet. thirty-three years, who was anaemic from the constant and often severe hemorrhages to which she had been subject. Duration of the disease four years. The tumor was in the vagina, and was removed with Simpson’s polyptome ; not more than §i. or ij. of blood having been lost. The pedicle was surrounded by the os uteri, and receded, after the operation, so as not to be felt. Menstruation became regular ; and the patient before long