582 MORBID ANATOMY. 2732. Excision of a large portion of the uterus, for inversion. The patient was married at the age of nineteen, had one child within the year, and about two or three months after- ward discovered a protrusion of the organ through the vulva. Menstruation gradually became very profuse, and, in the course of three years, she became so reduced that Dr. S. did the operation as a means of saving her life. For the first year her health decidedly improved ; but after a while it began to fail, with symptoms of suppression of the catamenia, and she died five years after the operation, of tubercular disease. Dr. Wm. H. Thajmr, of Keene, N. H., examined the body, and published the result, with a general history of the case, in the Berkshire Med. Jour. (Mass.), Sept., 1861. A portion of the cervix remained ; and the Fallo- pian tubes, that arose from a single point, were entirely obliterated to the extent of a few lines from their origin. The ovaries were quite natural, and contained several cor- pora lutea. In the preparation, the organ has been cut through, and shows the peritoneal surface to some extent. 1856 ° Dr. D. H. Storer. 2733. A large portion of the uterus, removed by the ecraseur, for inversion. Length about 2J in., and thickness of the fundus about 1£ in. An incision, along one side, exposes the serous surface, with a portion of the Fallopian tubes and broad ligaments, and shows the absence of adhe- sions. The patient, set. forty-three years, had had three chil- dren, and the last five years ago. The catamenia had been frequent and profuse during lactation, and for the last two years constant. When first seen, two days before the operation, she was perfectly blanched and very weak ; and the globular, inverted organ was felt in the vagina. No blood was lost during the operation ; but a few hours afterward the patient complained of pain and tenderness of the abdomen, soon became pulseless, and died in twenty- four hours after the removal of the organ. Autopsy by Dr. E. 1864. . Dr‘ fUtS' 2734. Hypertrophied os and cervix uteri excised; and weigh- in" between 5 and 6 ounces after being steeped in alcohol.