333 MORBID ANATOMY. that is not covered b}*- cartilage. This last, over the under surface of the inner condyle of the femur is irregularly absorbed to a very considerable extent, and to a small ex- tent along the opposite edge of the tibia; but there is no- where any marked appearance as of a piece of bone having formerly been broken off. The “ loose cartilage,” is in the Med. Society’s Cabinet (No. 311), and, now that it is dried, it measures 16J lines in length, from 6 to 8£ in width, and from 1£ to 2 in thickness. In the recent state, one-third or more of it consisted of cartilage, and the rest of bone. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1688. Elbow-joint, showing an entire removal of the articular cartilage as the result of acute inflammation ; dried. When recent the articular surface was as smooth and denuded as it now appears, except to a small extent around the circum- ference, where there was a thick, red, pulpy structure, that it was thought might be the remains of a diseased synovial membrane. The periosteum also was thickened, red, and friable for 3 in. or more above the joint; and there was a free external opening into the cavity of the joint, with a large abscess in the neighboring parts. From a sailor, set. fifty-two (Hospital, 55, 40), who had had an ulcer on the penis a year before, aphonia with dys- phagia for three months, connected with ulceration of the larynx and disease of the cartilages, and a node upon the tibia; general health poor. The inflammation of the elbow-joint was severe, and was fatal on the twenty-fifth day; swelling as high as the shoulder; abscess broke on the fifteenth day, and continued to discharge; pain always severe on motion, but easy when at rest. A very large abscess was also found between the left scapula and the ribs. (See No. 1444.) 1852. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 1689. Fleshy anchylosis of the knee-joint. Bones atrophied; anc the femur, of which a large portion is preserved, is curved and flattened laterally. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1690 The same, with much more fibrous substance about the knee-joint. From a young subject. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren.