574 MOKBID ANATOMY. 2709. An ovarian cyst, about 2 in. in diameter, cuticulav upon the inner surface, and with hair growing from it. The cavity was filled with hair; and with fat, which seems always to be found with it. — From a healthy, single woman, set. forty-five years. (Hospital, 228, 88.) 1860. Dr. G. Ellis. 2710. Hair from the above cyst. 1860. Dr. C. Ellis. 2711-12. An ovarian cyst, containing bone, teeth, etc. From a middle-aged, dissecting-room subject. It was about two-thirds as large as the fist, and was filled with a soft, yellowish, fatty substance, with which was mixed a large quantity of loose hair. Upon the inner surface there was to some extent a pretty well-marked coarse cutis, with some remains of cuticle, but only a single hair was found attached. Near the skin, and just beneath the inner sur- face of the cyst, was a piece of bone, 14 in. long, in con- nection with which were two teeth. Two or three quite small cysts were connected with the larger one. The other ovary, upon the left side, was about half as large as the above, and consisted of a number of cysts, all of which contained fat, and in one of which there was hair, with traces of skin, but nothing further. Dr. D. W. Clieever. Hair from the above cyst. 1861. Dr. D. W. Clieever. 2713. A very irregular piece of bone, and four smaller pieces from an ovarian sac; dried. Two of these last con- tain the crowns of one or two molar teeth ; and five other crowns are shown that were separated in piepaiing the specimen. 1868. 2714. Two pieces of bone, that were attached, near to each other, bjr a small but firm fibrous band, to the inteiioi of an ovarian sac, and that contain numerous teeth. One is 3 in. in length, and about 1 in. in diameter. The other is about 2 in. by £ in.; but the form of both is quite irregu- lar. The teeth are nearly all of them firmly implanted in the bones, and consist of molars and incisors, with some that cannot very well be named. The largest bone con- tains seventeen teeth, and the smallest thirteen; and they are arranged in each in two compact groups.