531 MORBID ANATOMY. 2493. Extensive cancerous disease of the bladder, and of a peculiar form. There projects from the lower half of the posterior wall a fungous, lobulated growth, about the size of an English walnut. In the recent state the cavity of the organ was not more than 3 in. in diameter, and empty. The verumontanum, with the prostate gland and neigh- boring tissues are also affected. The rectum was involved ; the pelvis was mostly filled with a morbid growth; the lumbar glands were most extensively diseased, and there v as disease of one of the lower ribs. The growths every- where were of considerable consistence; of a dull or yel- lowish vhite color; here and there vascular or ecchymosed, and contained much milky fluid. On mici oscopic examination, there were seen many gran- ular nuclei of the size of, or smaller than, blood globules. Some contained large nucleoli, but most were without them. A few nuclei, with large, well-marked nucleoli, were here and there seen ; but, with these exceptions, there was noth- ing Tvhich could by any one be considered as characteristic of cancer. From a literary gentleman, sixty-six years of age. In May, 185G, he asked advice for difficulty of defecation; and, on examination, a tumor in the region of the prostate was found pressing in upon the rectum. A tumor was also felt, extending 2 in. above the pubes. For the first two months there was much pain, but afterward none at all. Micturition throughout very frequent. Became extremely emaciated, and died Dec. 29th; having had no dej. for two weeks, and having passed no urine for three days. (Med. Jour. Vol. lv. p. 512.) 1857. Dr. C. Ellis. III. Foreign Bodies from the Bladder. 2494. A smooth stone, £ in. by about a in., removed from the bladder, by the forceps, and found by Dr. Bacon to be a “rolled pebble of argillaceous rock;” four or five others having been removed within a few weeks. From a respectable married woman, about thirty-five years of age, and whose propensities, otherwise, were in no way remarkable, so far as was known. She had been practising