MORBID ANATOMY. 681 spleen weighed 13J oz., and contained several defined, rounded, soft, brownish-black masses, — some of which were half as large as a hen’s egg. 1852. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 3100. Section of a spleen, showing an extensive and rather firm encephaloid deposit. From a woman, set. thirty-three years, and who reported herself as having been sick only five weeks. The kidneys, stomach, liver, and gall-bladder were cancerous ; and the last were crowded with calculi. 1867. Dr. C. Ellis. 3101. A mass of glandular substance, that contained three cysts that were filled with blood, and that was removed from the thyroid gland. The patient was an unmarried woman, aet. twenty-five years ; and the disease was of twelve years’ duration. It began upon the median line, increased slowly until the last year, and then rapidly. On admission into the hospi- tal (114, 248), it occupied the whole front of the throat, and extended from side to side, 12 in. ; uniform in aspect and in its elastic feel, aud but little movable. It was supported by a net, on account of its weight, but caused no other discomfort. The patient was rather anaemic, and lepoited that her grandmother had cancer. — The mass was easily removed, but the hemorrhage was profuse, and the blood seemed to ooze from the whole surface. The patient soon rallied from the operation, though the swelling caused gieat dysphagia for a time; and in about a month she was discharged well. Di. H. lemarked that in two other cases the tumor was peeled from a bed of healthy thyroid gland, and the hem- onhage from the whole surface was such as to require liga- tures to be applied en masse. (Med. Jour. Vol. lxxi.°p. 399-) 1864- Dr. R. M. Hodges. 3102. Renal capsules diseased, from a case of Addison’s dis- ease. From an unhealthy woman, set. thirty-seven years, whose skin had been discolored for eight months before her death. Under the care of Dr. Fogg, of Dedham, for the last four or five weeks, who found the face and hands of a dark-