MORBID ANATOMY. G57 tions of considerable size having been detached in the process. The lower extremity of the scapula is quite healthy to the extent of about 2 in., and closely connected with the mass; there being, otherwise, no trace of the bone. A dry preparation. 3017. A section through the clavicle, and the bony tumor that arises from it; dried. 3018. The humerus, after maceration; with sections through the two “ knots.” 3019. A cast of a well-marked enchondromatous tumor, just above the knee-joint, outside and toward the front. The tumor is about half as large again as the fist, of a rounded form, quite knobbed, dense, and slightly elastic, immovable upon the bone, and occasionally quite painful. The patient is the mother of the subject of the above case (No. 3007) ; seventy years of age, and healthy. The tumor has existed from the age of twelve years, and for the last two has been very painful. Stepping upon a rolling stone strains it, and causes it to swell.—Her son, she says, “had one knee like her own, though not so bad.” Nothing, however, was known of this at the hospital. She also states that her daughter had a similar disease of the wrist; commencing when she was three years old, and increasing steadily until she died, at the age of fifteen years, of fever; the tumor being hard and irregular, and, at the time of her death, larger than her mother’s fist. There was “no length of arm from her elbow down” and for several years she had had no use of her hand. 1867. Dir. C. M. Carleton, of Norwich, Conn. 3020. Cast of an enchondromatous transformation of the whole thumb. The patient was a female, eighty-two years of age, and the disease of three years’ duration. Cause unknown. An elastic, translucent tumor was first seen over the inside of the last joint of the thumb. This enlarged gradually, until a year before the operation, when it involved the whole thumb, and formed a rounded, elastic tumor, about 4 in. in diameter; integuments inflamed, and pain consid- erable. At the time of the operation it had nearly doubled