277 MORBID ANATOMY. several openings formed, and the patient died, worn out by the disease, on the 1st of March ; there seeming to be no time when, from the state of the system, amputation could have been performed. In the recent state a large portion of the articular sur- face was not merely entirely denuded of cartilage, but as polished as glass, and this appearance is still quite well shown; the remainder being superficially ulcerated, and covered by a thin opaque deposit. The polished portion seemed to consist of a very thin and delicate lamina of bone that might have been broken through with the thumb- nail, and without any of the solidity beneath that exists in a case of eburnation ; the bone being very light. The whole corresponding surface of the tibia resembled the ulcerated portion. 1849. Dr. George Faulkner, of Jamaica Plain. 1445. All of the tarsal and metatarsal bones co-ossified, except- ing the fifth, which is not preserved. From a case of frost-bite, with extensive slouching:. Metatarsal bones pointed anteriorly. A broad spinet has formed upon the back of the os calcis; and the whole specimen is very light. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1446. Bones of the foot, from which the fourth toe, with its metatarsal bone, had at some former time been removed. Tarsal bones carious, with some anchylosis. Prepared, in connection, by Dr. II. From a delicate female, about thirty-five years of age; foot much everted; with sinuses, through which the bone could be felt. 1856. Dr. B. M. Hodges. 144/. Cast of a foot, from which the tarsal bones had been ex- tensively removed. A man, thirty-one years old, seven weeks previous to his admission to the hospital (118, 216), wounded the dorsum of his left foot deeply with an axe. Abscesses, extensive suppurative inflammation of the soft parts, and disease of the tarsal bones followed. His general health depreciated in consequence. July 22d it was found that the finger could be passed through the tarsus to the sole of the foot. By a transverse incision across the instep, the proximal