MORBID ANATOMY. 4G0 stomach ; a narrow strip of healthy tissue extending partly across the diseased portion. 1861. 2219. Thibert’s model. Disease of the pylorus, and appar- ently encephaloid. Numerous enlarged, mesenteric glands are similarly diseased; and great numbers of lymphatics between them and the small intestine are enlarged and filled with a puriform fluid. 1849. Dr. J. Ware. 2220. . A very large encephaloid growth around the car- diac orifice of the stomach. 1849. Dr. J. Ware. 2221. Very extensive encephaloid disease of the cardiac orifice, • and extending to the oesophagus. The diseased mass is thick, soft, and in a state of open ulceration. The (Esoph- agus is somewhat dilated, but not particularly thickened ; and the stomach is contracted, rugous, and inammillated. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 2222. Encephaloid disease, extending 2£ or 3 in. from the • cardiac orifice, and quite limited. The diseased surface is ulcerated, firm to the feel, and was, in the recent state, of a yellowish color. The edges are raised, somewhat rounded and vascular, and softer than the rest. (Esophagus per- fectly healthy, and neither dilated nor thickened. The other organs, also, were quite healthy. From a woman, set. fifty-three, who died in Feb. 1861, and had had dyspepsia from her girlhood. In August, 1859, there was much distress in the stomach and oesopha- gus ; in the spring of 1860, nausea and vomiting, and in July the vomiting after food was constant. In December, when Dr. F. first saw her, there was a peculiar sense of distress on first taking food, and which was generally re- lieved by its rejection. The case was regarded as one of stricture of the oesophagus, from the fact that sbe persist- ently felt and said that the food stopped at an exact spot, about half way down the oesophagus. She was then tak- ing liquids and pap nearly all the time, and vomiting nine- tenths of it within ten minutes. Instruments, however, were passed without resistance. During the last two months her appetite was keen, and she took large quanti- ties of food, which she constantly rejected, and without discomfort. Five days before death she raised a pint of