472 MORBID ANATOMY. tic without effect; but after enemata she had dark and slimy discharges, and afterwards several that were green- ish. And these were all the discharges that she had dur- ing her sickness, though cathartics and enemata were given. Pain in the abdomen, and of a colicy character, was a nearly constant symptom throughout, with tender- ness. There was some pain in the epigastrium, and some tenderness over the abdomen, but otherwise this last was natural. On the evening of the 14th she was in a state of collapse, constantly restless, and crying out, with her hand on the epigastrium ; the abdomen not tympanitic, but full and hard about the caecum ; laudanum was ordered p. r. n., and two enemata were given, containing ol. terebinth, but without effect. The disease was almost continuous throughout the upper half of the large intestine, so that its follicular character would not have been suspected ; the surface being rough, of an opaque whitish color, and abraded, with very con- siderable thickening. Healthy patches of mucous mem- brane, however, soon began to appear, and these gradually increased until the disease had for the most part disap- peared ; but as low down as the rectum, the surface was everywhere more or less scattered with follicles, about the size of mustard seed, singly or in small groups, and evi- dently the commencement of the more advanced disease. In the lower part of the small intestine, also, were numer- ous isolated follicles, similar to the above, and, like them, not ulcerated nor abraded upon the surface. Peyer’s patch- es in the lower part of the intestine were much raised, rough upon the surface, and opaque as if thinly coated, and even infiltrated with lymph. Blood and some bile were found in the stomach and upper part of the small intestine ; and the intestines otherwise were healthy. 1869. Dr. Samuel G. Webber. 2254. Thibert’s model. A portion of small intestine, showing hemorrhage into the mucous membrane, in scattered patches. 1849. Dr. J. Ware. 2255. Inflammation of the intestine, from a woman, ret. thirty- five years, who died of gangrene of the lung, and had had