MORBID ANATOMY. 599 admit the finger. The width varies at different paits , and the length is 15 in. From an unmarried woman, thirty-eight years of age, who discovered a tumor, about five years ago, upon the right side, half way between the umbilicus and pubes, and about the size of an egg. During the menstrual periods there has always been great flowing, but without pain, and, since the tumor was first known, with three exceptions, a membranous discharge at each period ; the length of the membrane varying from 6 to 24 in. The woman has the appearance of full health, and the tumor, which is in the right side of the abdomen, and extends rather beyond the median line, is of a rounded form, dense to the feel, and apparently about 6 in. in diameter. Microscopically, Dr. J. Collins Warren found the mem- brane transparent, filled with spindle-shaped cells, and perforated with holes; with villi thickly attached to the rough surface. 1870. Dr. C. E. Buckinfjham. 2785. Tubercular disease of the inner surface of the body and fundus of the womb; cervix, as usual, not affected. From a woman, ®t. twenty-nine years, who was exten- sively tubercular. 1855. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2786. Scirrhus of the womb. The os and cervix are destroyed, with the whole upper part of the vagina ; ulcerated surface dense. No cancerous disease elsewhere. The patient was thirty-nine years of age, had had the disease for a year or more, and the case was remarkable for the entire absence of pain. (Med. Jour. Yol. xlv. p. 394.) 1852. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2787. Encephaloid disease. — Organ cut open, and shows a de- struction of the os, cervix, and great part of the body; with some superficial ulceration of the vagina, resulting from the irritating discharge, and a threatening of rupture into the peritoneal cavity. An encephaloid mass, about the size of a nutmeg, is also seen to project into the blad- der, which, though small, is otherwise healthy. The appen- dages of the uterus are adherent; and tlie ureters (No. 2481) were dilated. As usual in cancer of the womb, the other organs were not affected.