633 MORBID ANATOMY. From a man, set. twenty-two years. The sac contained a turbid, purulent fluid; and it was mostly extirpated, though there was, as usual, a deep and narrow prolongation backward, that could not be removed. No recurrence. 1858. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. 2945. A second daguerreotype, and of a similar case. The patient was forty-four years of age, in delicate health, and the disease had existed for about one year. It appeared first above the clavicle, and of the size of a shag- bark ; in six months it was of the size of a hen’s egg ; and when the woman entered the hospital (55, 194), it was larger than the fist, translucent, fluctuating, painless, and extending under the trapezius muscle. Most of the sac was removed; and the portion that extended under the muscle and clavicle was tied; §vj. of fluid being dis- charged, of the color of coffee and milk, with cholesterine and inflammatory products. — The patient was discharged on the tenth day, doing well, though the wound was still discharging. 1858. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. Cyst in posterior nares. (See No. 2068.) 2946. Daguerreotype of a case of hydrocele of the neck. The subject was an infant, six months old. The tumor, which was congenital, was soft and fluctuating, extended fiom the angle of the lower jaw, beneath the clavicle, to the third rib, and disappeared on strong pressure. Nov. 7th, 1863, Dr. B. punctured it, and removed §vj. of serum. A sound was then passed down within the cyst, and to a point just below the axilla; a second puncture was made at this point; a thread was carried through, and the ends tied. On the 17th this last was removed ; the tumor grad- ually disappeared ; and Dec. 15th the child left the hospi- tal well (111, 98). 1868. Dr. II. J. Bigeloio. 2947-8. Daguerreotype of a case of oil C}rst, below the ear. The patient was a man, forty-five years of age, and the tumor that had been forming from the age of three years, was first noticed after the healing of an abscess in the ear; this gradually enlarged until the last two years, and then more rapidly. At the time of the operation it was of the