MORBID ANATOMY. 142 There was throughout a complete loss of the power of motion, and of sensation, excepting some indistinct sense of feeling toward the last. Urine retained for the first day or two, but ever afterward discharged involuntarily, as were the freces. Urine also strongly ammoniacal, and mixed with pus. The man only complained of pain in his back when he was moved, and then not urgently. Bed-sores soon began to form, and became large and numerous be- fore death; and the emaciation was very extreme. Four dorsal and one lumbar vertebrae having been removed, and prepared in connection, by Mr. Charles S. Wood, a student of Dr. G., it is seen that the bod}- of the eleventh dorsal is very extensively fractured, and the curvature is such that the body of the tenth must be within one-third of an inch, or less, of the first lumbar. There is much new bone about the bodies of the three last dorsal vertebrae anteri- orly, but scarcely any posteriorly. Laminae of the elev- enth broken away from transverse processes. Spinous processes in line, but that of the tenth is broken and com- minuted. Eleventh rib broken upon each side, near the spine, but partially united. 1869. Dr. J. W. Graves, of Chelsea. 941. Several vertebrae, separated by maceration, and showing an extensive fracture of the first lumbar. From a girl, aet. 19, who jumped 20 ft. from a building, when on fire, and struck upon the nates. Immediate pa- ralysis of the lower extremities and sphincters followed, with insensibility. Three weeks afterward, when she entered the Hospital (39, 132), there was sensibility, with some power over the sphincters, but a very marked projection of the vertebrae. Also much pain in legs from the time of the accident. Lived about nine months, and died of phthisis. The whole upper edge of the first lumbar vertebra was broken off, and, from the curvature that ensued, it has come nearly into contact with the body of the second. The body is almost split through vertically, from back to front; the anterior face is forced backward by the body of the last dorsal that lies upon it, and the back part of the body en-