MORBID ANATOMY. 586 with a continuous, excessive, and peculiarly offensive dis- charge. In 1858 she was tapped as for ovarian dropsy. In July, 1860, she arrived in this country, much exhausted. Jan. loth, 1861, she became suddenly worse ; on the 17th she was tapped — the distention being enormous ; and on the 19th she died. The cavity of the abdomen contained about sixty pints of fluid. The tumor, which rose as high as the umbilicus, and adhered to the anterior parietes, was made up of ex- ceedingly delicate cysts, from the size generally of a wal- nut to that of a foetal head, and filled with a gelatinous or thin serous fluid. The uterus is about 4 in. in length, and the tumor arises directly from the fundus; the parietes between its cavity and that of the cysts being as healthy as in any other part, though diminished by one-half in thickness. To a considerable extent the parietes are con- tinued over and gradually lost upon the surface of the cysts ; and in some places small c}rsts are developed in this expanded portion of the uterus. There is no appearance of cancerous disease, nor any fibrous tumors in the womb. Ovaries large, but otherwise not remarkable. (Med. Jour. Vol. lxiv. p. 305.) 1861. Dr. A. W. Thompson, of Northampton. 2742. Thibert’s model. A pedunculated polypus, arising from the fundus of the womb, aud enclosed in the neck. Also a small fibrous tumor in the parietes of the fundus ; and an encysted disease of the left ovary. 1847. Dr. G. Hayward. 2743. The uterus is cut open, and shows a polypus arising from the fundus, by a long and slender peduncle, and bulging to about the size of the end of the thumb, at the os tineas. The organ itself is considerably enlarged. The case occurred in the practice of Dr. J. M. Warren, from whom the following history was obtained. — The pa- tient was a woman, fifty years of age. Catamenia irregu- lar for some years before it ceased. Occasional uterine hemorrhage for about a year before her death, and once or twice to a great amount; the discharge being at times very offensive. Always more or less pain, and sometimes very severe. About six months before death a tumor was