112 healthy anatomy. piepared, to show the condition of the bones; humerus about 1£ in. long; and ulna about 1 in.; radius wanting; the hand has only three fingers, but is otherwise well- developed. The other extremity, which is entire, resem- bles it in every respect, so far as appears. 1867. .Dr. G. J. Arnold, of Roxbury. 877. Malformation of the pelvis, and left lower extremity, in a five months and healthy-looking foetus; a ligamentary preparation by Dr. Hodges, and in spirit. The pelvis is compressed laterally, and distorted ; the sa- cium is open posteriorly, as in spina bifida, and the coccjtx turns backward. Upon the left side the body of the pubes is wanting, so that there is a deep notch from above instead of the thyroid foramen. The left acetabulum was situated very near to the spinous process of the ilium, and was so shallow that it could hardly be said to exist; the right was also very shallow, and allowed a very ready dislocation and reduction of the hip. The position of the right lower extremity was unnatural; but, as seen in the preparation, the skeleton is normal. The left femur is considerably shorter than the right. The fibula is one-fourth shorter than its fellow, broad and stout, and so curved that the sole of the foot, before dissection, lay close to the lower and inner part of the thigh. The tibia is represented by . its lower cartilaginous epiphysis only ; and this was con- nected, b}r a short fibrous band, with the inner condjde of the femur. Foot well formed. Patella wanting o The right hand was flexed to an acute angle upon the forearm; and the left forearm to a right angle upon the arm. Kidneys wanting. Renal capsules rather largely developed, and in their normal position. Bladder exceed- ingly small, and the rectum opened freely into it; there being no anus. 1867. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 878. The bones of the pelvis and lower extremity of a mon- strosity (Siren) ; in spirit, with some of the organs. The case was published in the Med. Jour. (Feb. 18th, 1869) ; and the following is a short abstract of the report. The lower extremities tapered as usual to a point; and the foetus, which was generally well formed, weighed about 3