INTRODUCTION. V completed. Very exquisite drawings were made in water colors by a foreign artist, and from typical and recent speci- mens ; these were then lithographed, and the copies that are shown in the Museum were colored by the same artist, after the originals. A collection of enlarged drawings in water colors, by the same artist, suitable for the lecture-room, and illustrative of surgical anatomy and pathology, may also be alluded to, though independent of the Museum. In this col- lection there are four hundred and twenty-six plates, and altogether nine hundred and sixty-seven figures; many of the drawings being from recent specimens, and showing the micro- scopic as well as the gross appearances. Some of the other departments are, also, illustrated more or less fully. Prof. R. M. Hodges has always shown a most active interest in the Museum since he was connected with the College as a student, and the large practice in which he has been engaged of late years has enabled him to secure’for it very many specimens, and some of them of the greatest interest. His anatomical preparations, also, are very fine, and could hardly be surpassed for the freedom and beauty of the dissections. The most valu- able specimen that has ever been added to the Museum, and probably ever will be,.was given two years ago by Dr. John M. Harlow, of Woburn. It was the skull of the man through whose head a large iron bar passed, and who essentially recov- ered from the accident. For the professional zeal and the energy that Dr. H. showed, in getting possession of this re- markable specimen, he deserves the warmest thanks of the profession, and still more, from the College, for his donation. Unfortunately, and notwithstanding the evidence that Dr. H. has furnished, the case seems, generally, to those who have not seen the skull, too much for human belief. The whole number of specimens now in the Museum amounts to three thousand six hundred and eighty-nine. The last specimen is numbered 3681 ; but thirteen were accidentally omitted, and afterwards added as the volume was being printed ; and five were repeated. Of these, one thousand one hundred and six- teen specimens were given by Dr. Warren, including three hundred and thirteen phrenological casts; and one hundred and twenty-three specimens were paid for from the Museum I und. The number of specimens preserved in spirit is nine