MORBID ANATOMY. 345 1735. A small portion of the heart, showing fibrinous vegeta- tions attached to the mitral valve, with extensive laceration. 1847. - Dr. J. C. Warren. 1736. Heart entire, and showing a peculiar form of the organ, • as if both of the ventricles, but particularly the right, were dilated in their circumference. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1737. A fibrinous mass from the heart of a right whale ; dried. It is of a flattened, pyriform shape, 6 in. in length, 4|- in. across the widest part, and 1|- in. in thickness. Dr. G-. received it from an experienced whaler, who said that the animal whs an old one, and in good condition, though it had been previously harpooned, and that it was taken last year, near the Azores. The growth was attached by its small extremity to the adherent edge of one of the valves ; and in another cavity of the heart was a perfectly similar formation. Dr. J. C. White, who examined the specimen, found, externally, a very dense, organized, fibrous material, about & in. in thickness; and within this shell a very loose, spongy substance, somewhat fatty, and containing a large quantity of inorganic matter, with carb. and phosph. of lime. 1867. Dr. Alfred C. Garratt. 1738. Aneurism of the heart. — A portion of the organ pre- served, and shows a circumspribed dilatation of the left ventricle at its apex ; the parietes at this part being thin, white-opaque, fibrous, and inelastic. Rupture had taken place into the pericardial cavity, which last contained, in the lecent state, a large quantity of blood. Otherwise, the organ was healthy. Fiom a man, set. fifty-nine, who had had cardiac S3mip- toms for two or three years. During the last month he was seen by Dr. W.; and the chief symptoms were urgent d} spnoea, a severe pain beneath the sternum, and occasion- ally an irregular pulse. He was sitting up, and talking quite cheerfully, when he fell back and died instantly. 1856‘ Dr. Charles E. Ware. 1739. Heart entire. Circumscribed aneurism of the left ventri- cle, extending to the apex; with fibrine in the cavity. 1861.