98 HEALTHY ANATOMY. The foetus weighed 1 lb. 11£ oz., and was 11 in. in length. Diaphragm wanting upon the left side, and the stomach, spleen, small intestine, and large intestine, as far as the left side, were in the left thoracic cavity. Left lung small, and undivided. Right lung of full size ; one lobe, but with a fissure at base. Renal capsules very small. Fissure through whole of soft palate. 1866. Dr. H. C. Bickford, of Charlestown. 838. Foetus; in spirit. The cranial cavity is capacious; but, the spine being much bent, the whole head is thrown back- ward so that the occipital region is closely connected with the lower dorsal vertebrae. Over the lower part of the spine the cutis was to a considerable and definite extent nearly or quite wanting, though the cuticle seemed well developed. The amount of brain was large, but the spinal marrow was not distinctly seen. The deformity was great, from the shortness of the trunk, the protrusion of the chest, the entire absence of the neck, the throwing back of the head, and none the less from the fully developed extremities. Integuments of the lower part of the abdo- men were quite oedematous. The skeleton, if prepared, would probably resemble one (No. 788) that is figured in the Catalogue of the Med. Society’s Cabinet. The renal capsules, which were not so small as in the more common form of “ acephalous foetus,” were fused (See No. 839), as the kidneys also were. The ventricles of the heart com- municated, and the two branches of the pulmonary artery arose from the aorta. A few other malformations were noticed, but they were slight. 1856. Dr. John E. Hathaway, of Worcester. 839. Fusion of the renal capsules ; from the last case. 1856. Dr. Hathaway. St. Hilaire (Hist, des Anom. n. 543) quotes a case of fusion of the r. capsules, and remarks that there is no other on record; two, however, are reported in the catalogue above referred to (Nos. 762, 788), and another has been met with here (No. 829), besides those and the present case. — Feb. 1870, a fifth case.