MORBID ANATOMY. 570 as large as the top of the thumb; a marked concavity cor- responding to a convexity upon the first. From a woman, aet. twenty-eight years, who had had symptoms of disease for thirteen years, and urinary fistula in the groin for the last two. Dr. J. S. Ross, of Great Falls, N. H., who sent the specimen, with a full history of the case, to Dr. Bigelow, was consulted, and found her in a most distressing and loathsome condition ; greatly re- duced in flesh and strength, and confined to the bed, which was saturated with urine. On pressure over the bladder, a stream of urine, with mucus, could be forced upward 6 in. from the fistula in the groin. Vagina, and external surface for some distance much inflamed, and very sensi- tive. The calculus was perfectly immovable, under the arch of the pubes, and seemed to occupy the greater part of the pelvic cavity. Feb. 25th, 1861, an attempt was made, under ether, to remove it, when it broke, and the large mass was easily extracted. The small calculus was then felt in the bladder; and, the finger being passed through the dilated urethra, it was removed; there being no other opening between the bladder and the vagina. After the operation the inflammation very soon subsided, the fistula had closed on the ninth da3r, and on the twenty- third day she walked three-fourths of a mile without in- convenience ; and the following November she was quite fleshy, in perfect health, and entirely relieved of her former troubles. Dr. Bacon’s analysis of the calculus: triple phosph., with traces of phosph. and carb. of lime, and the usual organic matters; but no ur. ac., urates, nor ox. of lime. 1861. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. 2701. Two small, oval, flattened calculi, about £ in. in length, and that were passed from the bladder, in a case of frac- ture of the spine, with several others at different times. Composed, according to Dr. White, of the phosph. and carb. of lime, with triple phosphate of ammonia and mag- nesia. 1869. Dr. J. S. Jones. 2702. A calculus, from a case of complete prolapse of the uterus. (No. 2736.) It is of a regular, oval form, 1£ in. by 1-jJ^ in., light-colored, soft, not at all laminated, and