HEALTHY ANATOMY. 116 Aorta normal excepting the left carotid, which arose from the innominata at its origin. The upper third of the sternum of each foetus was dis- tinct ; but, below this, each sternum was formed by a fu- sion of the right half from one foetus, and the left half from the other. 1859. Dr. D. J. Perlerj, of Oldtown, Me. 886. A second specimen, similar to the above, and preserved • in spirit. The feet presented ; labor was not very difficult, and the woman did perfectly well. Weight of the foetuses, 7| lbs. Sex, male. The muscles about the thorax vary somewhat, as the union of the foetuses is not exactly face to face ; and about the cord they are deficient to the extent of 1J in. Alimentary canal double to the duodena, where they unite, at the distances from the pylorus, respectively, of J in. and nearly 1 in. The intestine is then single for 44 in. ; aucl then divides again into 17£ in. of small, and 16 in. of large intestine for one foetus, and 18 of small, and 18£ of laro-e for the other. Livers fused. Two gall-bladders; one hepatic duct opening into the cystic near the intestine, and the other having apparently a separate opening, though very near to the cystic. The other organs of the abdomen are in two sets, and well formed, excepting the pancreas, in which last the two organs are united by the head. Dia- phragm as in the last case. The pleural cavities of one foetus communicated ; but, otherwise, the two sets of lungs, etc., were normal. Sternum as in the last case. The two hearts were intimately fused. The auricular portion consisted mainty of a fusion of the two right ami- des, and received the upper and two lower venae cavae. At each extremity of this common cavity was a left auricle, receiving the pulmonary veins respectively b}r a common trunk, and opening into the. ventricles; the lert auricle of A being quite small, and communicating largely with the general cavity, whilst that of B was more devel- oped, and so far separated as to show a foramen. The ventricular portion showed at the apex, externally, a tendency to fissure, and the two cavities communicated