MORBID ANATOMY. 351 1761. A large part of the aorta, with part of the iliacs. Dilated • and greatly diseased. Inner coat detached extensively in some places, and exposes an abundant yellow deposit. From a man, set. ninety, and who had always been healthy. 1856. Dr. C. Ellis. 1762. A very great, and apparently uniform dilatation of the aorta, from its origin to the vessels at the arch ; one small sac only being engrafted upon it. The cavity must have been large enough to have contained a foetal head, and the parietes are greatly diseased. Just beyond the arch the vessel contracts abruptly to its natural size, and is per- fectly healthy. The heart, which is also preserved, has been cut open into the left ventricle, and with the aortal valves is seen to be healthy. In spirit. 1849. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 1763. Aorta greatly enlarged and diseased, and the art. innom- inata three times its usual size. Every one who had examined the patient from whom this specimen was taken, felt confident that there was an aneurism of one of these vessels ; and the surgeons of the hospital (134, 237) unan- imously advised a distal ligature upon the right carotid and subclavian; but no trace of an aneurism was found. There was a distinct and strongly pulsating tumor above the top of the sternum, with souffle; and from this tumor the car. and subcl. seemed to arise. There was also cough with dysphagia and dyspnoea; and toward the last these symptoms became very urgent. The ligatures were therefore applied; and the patient died, on the eleventh day, apparently from exhaustion. Dr. H. has fully re- ported this case in the Med. Jour. Aug. 6th, 1868. 1868. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1764. Dissecting aneurism. The laceration is less than an inch above the valves; and the false passage reopens into the aorta at the arch; the appearances seeming to indicate that the patient had lived for some time after the accident occurred. The vessel itself is sufficiently health}'. 1847. Dr. J. O. Warren. 1765. A second specimen. — From a healthy man, set. fifty-six. About 9 p. m. severe pain came on in the epigastrium,