266 MORBID ANATOMY. had been going .on. The whole of the trochanter, a portion of the neck, and a large portion of the shaft are gone, and were probably removed at the time of the operation. Head of the bone of full size, but quite rough and denuded. Whole surface rough, as from inflammation, but without much new deposit, and without thickening of the parietes . of the shaft. The interior of the bone looks as if there may have been a suppurating cavity there, and upon the anterior surface the remains of a cloaca are seen. 1869. Dr. G. II. Gay. 1413. Disease of the os innominatum and femur; from a fe- male, dissecting-room subject, 60-65 years of age. “Previous to dissection, the subject exhibited the fol- lowing appearances:—There were adduction and flexion of the thigh, inversion of the foot, prominence of the tro- chanter, scars of old sinuses about the gluteal region, and four or five inches shortening. Motion, excepting rotation, tolerably free. “ Os innominatum very thin and light, diaphanous to a remarkable extent; clorsum ilii convex instead of concave. - The cotyloid cavity has lost its regular rounded shape ; its smooth, circular lip is in a measure absorbed ; its place, together with the cavity itself, is marked by bony excres- cences that have partly obstructed the latter; and an ex- tremely dense, fibrous tissue in the recent state completed this obliteration. Superiorly, and somewhat posteriorly to the acetabulum is a smooth, articulating surface, half an inch in width b}r an inch and five-eighths in length, which, when the specimen was fresh, was covered by a smooth cartilage. “ The femur is also atrophied. The head of the bone has disappeared, and but about seven-eighths of an inch of the neck remains, irregularly rounded at its extremity ; covered, where recent, on the prominent points with smooth carti- lage. The lesser trochanter exists merely as a small spicu- lated process, and the space between it and the neck of the bone is transformed from its normal character to a smooth surface in the recent state, coated with cartilage, from which, here and there, fibrinous bands were thrown ofT. This surface articulated with that described as existing