MORBID ANATOMY. 147 accident, lie returned home, a distance of about thirty miles. January 1st, 1849, the wound was quite closed. In April the left malar bone continued to be more prominent than the right. The eye, however, was less prominent than it had been; but the motions of the globe were lim- ited, and there was ptosis of the lid, with a partial paralysis of the left side of the face. Upon the top of the head was a quadrangular prominence, and behind this a deep depres- sion. No pain, but a queer feeling in the head. In regard to the state of his mind, he was very fitful and vacillating, though still very obstinate, as he always had been; and he was very profane, though never so before the acci- dent. After his recovery he travelled about with his bar, and exhibited himself in several of the large cities in this country; and in 1851 he got a situation, as a hostler, in a stable. In August, 1852, he went to S. America, and drove a six-horse stage-coach in Chili. In 1859 and ’60 his health began to fail, and early in 1860 he had a long sick- ness, but no particulars could be learned in regard to it. In June, 1860, he went to San Francisco, where his friends were residing ; and as his health improved, he went to work upon a farm. In February, 1861, he had a fit, and soon two or three others. He had b*en ploughing on the day that he was attacked, and had had no premonitory symp- toms. In a few days he was better, and did at different times various kinds of work. On the 20th of May he was attacked with severe convulsions, which recurred frequent- ly ; and on the following day he died. In July, 1866, Dr. Harlow ascertained that his patient’s mother was residing at San Francisco; and after a cor- respondence with her, and other members of the family who were with her, he not merely obtained the final history of the case, but in the most commendable spirit, and with a full appreciation of the scientific interest of the case, per- mission was given to have the cranium removed, and sent here for examination and preservation. In effecting this very desirable object, he was aided by D. D. Shattuck,