569 MORBID ANATOMY. 2697. Urethral calculus, § in. in diameter, and rather more than ^ in. long; of a whitish color ; an irregularly flattened form, and granulated upon the surface. Composition, probably, according to Dr. White, phosph. and carb. of lime. No urates. 1869. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 2698. Fragments of a large stone that were discharged within twenty-four hours, and after a single operation. None of them are large, and much of the material is a mere white powder. Composed, according to Dr. White, of carb. of lime, phosph. of lime, and a little phosph. of ammonia and magnesia. It contained also a large amount of oil and animal matter. The patient was entirely relieved. 1869. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 2699. A calculus removed by the lateral operation. A consider- able portion has been broken away; and the remainder, excepting a coarse powder, consists of a hemispherical, whitish mass, nearly 2 in. in diameter, and 1 in. thick; smooth, but somewhat porous on its convexity, and quite rough on the broken surface; structure coarse and crum- bling. Dr. Bacon’s analysis : phosph. of lime and triple phosph., carb. of lime, carb. of magnesia and animal mat- ter. The stem of a plant forms the nucleus. From a man, set. twenty-one years, and a resident of this State. Entered the hospital Feb. 7th, 1861 (93, 226). Nine years previously he fell astride of a rail fence, but did not seem to have hurt himself much. Four years be- foie entrance, an abscess formed near the anus. This nev- er healed, and during the last six months others had formed in the perineum. This last became fistulous, and after a while urine . passed through the opening. His general health became much reduced, with great suffering, and the presence of calculus was ascertained. Feb. 9th the Opera- tion was performed ; the stone being much broken up ; and on the 15th of Aug. he was discharged, much improved; though some urine still passed by the wound. 1861. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. 2700. An irregularly ovoid calculus, whitish, compact, and gran- ulated over most of its surface ; weight, 3J oz.; diame- ters about 2$ in., If in., and 1£ in. Also a second, about