76 HEALTHY ANATOMY. developed genital organs of a young Irishman, who had been in the U. S. naval service. The breasts resembled those of a virgin female, and the penis measured only 14 in. in length, and in. in diameter. An opportunity having been procured, by the kindness of Dr. Brinkerhoff, Surgeon, U. S. N., to examine this individual, the following obser- vations were made : Skin delicate as an infant’s ; contour of limbs remarkably feminine ; no trace of beard; some hair upon the pubes. Gians penis feels rather large, and can be about one-half uncovered by retraction of the pre- puce, when this last is arrested as if by an adhesion to the organ ; urethra quite normal, and he can pass a full stream of water ; scrotum very imperfectly developed ; one testi- cle very indistinctly felt, upon the left side, and toward the ring. The individual states that the penis is capable of erection, but that he has scarcely ever had any sexual feeling, and that he has never had connection with a fe- male ; that he had never polluted himself, nor ever had a seminal discharge. 1864. Museum Fund. 737. Photograph of the above individual; taken for Dr. Charles Martin, and sent to Dr. B. 1862. . Dr. II. J. Bigeloiv. 738. Cast, in plaster, showing a great deficiency in the external genital organs, from a man twenty years of age, and who entered the City Hospital, under the care of Dr. C., with an abdominal tumor, of four months’ duration. He had very little beard, but his general appearance and voice were those of a man. Sexually, nothing remarkable. The left half of the scrotum is entirely wanting; the right half containing a body about twice as large as the testicle, and partially divided so as to feel like a testis and epidydimis. The penis was very short, with an imperfect prepuce, and resembled an enlarged clitoris; the meatus urin. being at the root of the organ. Hair upon the pubes sufficient. See next specimen. Dr. Algernon Coolidge. 739. Cast of the front of the chest, from the above case, and showing a very marked but conical enlargement of the