MORBID ANATOMY. 620 ation; the corresponding portion of the prepuce being entirely destroyed. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 2901. Gians greatly enlarged, rough, irregularly ulcerated upon the surface, and labelled by Dr. W., “ Cancer.” Pre- puce cut through anteriorly, and looks healthy. 1847. Dr. J. 0. Warren. 2902. Cancer of the glans. The patient was fifty years of age, otherwise healthy, and entered the hospital June 7th (38, 234). In Feb. the . glans was slightly enlarged and indurated; and the orifice of the urethra was somewhat obstructed. As the disease increased, the prepuce became oedematous, with phymosis ; and toward the last of April ulceration began. On admis- sion, the whole glans was hard, irregular, nodulated, super- ficially ulcerated, and about one-third larger than natural; myriads of minute vessels running over the surface, from the dorsum of the penis, and bleeding on the slightest pressure. The prepuce was drawn back with difficulty, and the urine was still discharged in a very fine and twisted stream, and with much effort. — After the removal of the organ, the glans was found to consist of a uniform, pearly, white, dense, coarse structure, with some encroach- ment upon the corpora cavernosa; the fibrous envelope of these last being much thickened, and quite dense so far as the disease extended. Microscopically malignant.—Pa- tient recovered well from the operation, but showed him- self at the hospital the following winter with a return of the disease. 1849. Dr. S. D. Townsend. 2903. Epithelial cancer of the glans. From a man forty-four years of age. (Hospital, 79, 50.) Disease, which was of three years’ duration, began at the base of the glans, and was followed by paraphymosis. On admission, a foul, deep ulcer encircled the penis from the base of the glans toward the pubes, for more than an inch in extent, and with a ragged collar of exuberant granula- tions along the upper edge. Great pain. No marked en- largement of inguinal glands. — After removal, on the 17th of April, the structure appeared of a dull white color, and the epithelial character was well marked, microscopically.