MORBID ANATOMY. 344 1732. A portion of the heart, showing an irregular, cretaceous deposit upon the inner surface of the right ventricle, 1^ in. in length, and from 1 to ยง of an inch in thickness. It is just below the valve, the membranous portion of which is deficient to the extent of ^ of an inch, as from some old disease ; the inner surface of the heart being opaque-white immediately about it. From a bo)r, set. seventeen, who died suddenly, with general dropsy, and various indefinite symptoms. The right auricle of the heart was dilated, the ventricle smaller than usual, and the left cavities healthy. (Med. Jour. Vol. Liv. p. 519.) 1856. Dr. G. L. Collins, of Providence, P. I. 1733. The left auricle laid open, and showing the cavity appar- ently quite filled with old fibrine. When recent, this last was partially decolorized, and firmly adherent in part, with passages through for the blood. Auricle thickened and dilated. Mitral valve so contracted as hardly to admit the tip of the little finger; as shown in the prepara- tion. The aortal valves, and left ventricle were well; but the right cavities were thickened and dilated. Pulmonary apoplexy was also found, with some dropsy. From a woman, set. twenty-eight (Hospital, 266, 78), who had very severe rheumatism fifteen months before death, with pain in region of heart, and much palpitation. For the last year much dyspnoea, with pain about the heart, oedema, ascites, and cough with hemoptisis. When seen she was greatly prostrated, and could not speak with- out severe cough; pulse small and irregular; and the breathing was rapid and labored. Death four days after entrance. 1866. Dr. C. Ellis. 1734. A portion of the heart, showing a rounded, smooth, adherent, old coagulum in the cavity, and at the apex of the left ventricle; dryish, and of a dull red color, when recent. From a tailor, set. thirty, who died in a few hours after his entrance into the hospital (224, 81) ; active delirium; pulse regular, very small and weak, and quite rapid. 1859. Dr. C. Ellis.