293 MORBID ANATOMY. 1497. Malignant disease of the clavicle ; inspirit. A section has been made through the bone, and the diseased mass; and this last, which is about the size of two fists, resem- bles encephaloid, as it usually appears when thus pre- pared. From a sufficiently healthy man, twenty-four years of age. (Hospital, 10, 558.) Disease of one 3rear’s duration. The clavicle was removed by Dr. W.; and, though the man did well at first, he fell off on the thirteenth day, and died during the fourth week from the time of the operation. Case reported and figured by Dr. W. in his work on Tu- mors, p. 146. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1498. Encephaloid disease of the lower extremity of the femur, forming a tumor, nearly or quite as large as a foetal head; the bone at this part being entirely destroyed. The artic- ular cartilage, however, which remains, is nearly healthy, and detached to a considerable extent from the encepha- loid mass. The knee-joint is for the most part quite healthy, as is the femur where it was sawed across, and also the head of the tibia. Specimen in spirit. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1499. Long, section of the ulna, about which are formed two tumors, that are undoubtedly cancerous, though they did not present the characteristic appearances microscopically. One, just below the middle of the bone, was, in the recent state, 3 in. in length, and 2 in. in diameter ; marbled, pearly white, with vascular points, some xanthoid, and one small bony deposit; not soft; surface of bone somewhat absorbed, though there was no morbid deposit in the inte- lior. The second was about the lower extremity of the bone, and not far from the size of a horse-chestnut. Removed, after death, from a man thirty-six years of age. Thirteen weeks previously he struck his elbow, and one of the tumors soon appeared. The lower one fluctu- ated so distinctly, that at one time it was about to bepunc- tuied. Pleurisy came on three weeks before death, and carried him off. On dissection, several pints of blood and seium were found in the right pleural cavity, and a soft, cancerous mass, of the size of the fist, hung from the