179 MOKBID ANATOMY. From a man who was assaulted in the street. One ball is seen to have passed through the tibia just below the joint, which last is extensively fissured ; and for this injury the thigh was amputated on the eighteenth day. Secondly, a portion of the pelvis shows that another ball passed through, and shattered the tuberosity of the right ischium. It then traversed the pelvis, produced a deep but incom- . plete fracture of the left pubes, close to the symphisis, fell back into the cavity of the pelvis, and was afterwards ex- tracted from near the groin. The man lived twenty-two days from the time of the injury, and was found to have an extensive purulent infiltration of the cellular tissue of the pelvis, but without any injury to the peritoneum, blad- der, or any of the large vessels or nerves. (Hospital, 126, 242.) 1866 Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1053. A portion of the pelvis, showing a comminuted fracture through the acetabulum, from the great sacro-ischiatic notch to the obturator foramen, and an extension of the fracture along the upper portion of the acetabulum, that nearly separated the ilium. The whole posterior portion of the acetabulum is broken off in one piece. The head of the femur, a portion of which last is shown, is deeply in- dented upon its anterior surface, as the head of the hume- rus sometimes is in dislocation ; the outline being quite de- fined, as if it had struck against some sharp edge of bone. At the time of the dissection a portion of the pelvis was displaced backward, and the head of the femur followed it. From a man, set. thirty-six years, who fell from the roof of the barracks, at the Charlestown navy-yard, struck upon his right side, and died in forty-eight hours. A hospital case (88, /2). The limb was shortened, the foot inverted, the toes resting upon the instep of the other foot, the knee semiflexed, and he was unable to move the limb on account' of pain. Six of the ribs were also fractured, and there were several superficial lacerations of the liver. 1860. Dr. S. D. Townsend. 1054. A portion of the femur, and of the pelvis, from a boy