590 MORBID ANATOMY. peduncle being § in. in diameter, and of a coarse fibrous structure. From a woman, set. foity-one years, who had had one miscarriage and six children. There had been constant pain in the back since the last in 1847, with increased cat- amenial flow from that time, and frequent hemorrhages from 1857 till 1859, when the polypus was removed, and, as in the last case, from within the os. The case, however, was complicated with a tumor in another portion of the organ, and the hemorrhage continued. 1859. Dr. D. H. Storer. 2755. A tumor, 5 in. in length, 10 in. in circumference, and with a pedicle half an inch in diameter. Structure fibrous. From a woman, set. forty-one years, who had had one child, twenty-one years before. Flowing for the last nine years ; chiefly at the menstrual periods, but at other times on exertion ; one quite unusual symptom being an accumu- lation of the coagula between the tumor and the walls of the vagina. Latterly she had been much reduced by the loss of blood, and was confined to her chamber. Dr. Channing passed a ligature by means of Gooch’s canula, and the tumor came off on the fifth day. 1856. Dr. C. G. Putnam. 2756. A polypus, 2 in. in length, 1£ in. across its free extrem- ity, and 1£ in. at the pedicle. Form not unlike that of a pear. The most remarkable peculiarity, and that which constitutes it as belonging to a very rare variety, is the existence of three or four cavities, opening largely upon the free extremity, as in the case of some small sponges, and of which two communicate, though the others are sep- arate ; these cavities resulting from the formation of the polypus, and not from disease. In the recent state it was as large as a goose-egg, of a very deep and rich purple or crimson color, soft to the feel, and thickly covered with very viscid mucus. From a widow, set. forty-four years, who had had several children; and who, for three years, had had a constant discharge of mucus and blood, with pain in the back, and a sense of bearing-down. She had become quite antemic,