MORBID ANATOMY. 432 icle being attached to the trachea, at the entrance to the right primary bronchus, it had acted as a ball-valve, allow- ing expiration, but forbidding inspiration. Dr. Ellis, who examined it microscopically, found it composed of small granular corpuscles, and with nothing like lobular struc- tuie, though to the naked eye it appeared to sepai’ate into many minute and very loosely coherent lobules. From a young married woman, who had a violent attack of asthma in May, 1859, relieved by the inhalation of ether, and followed for some days by profuse expectoration of thick mucus. The attacks became more frequent and more severe ; and from March, 1860, till August, she never lay down in bed. She then had measles, after which she rapidly grew better, and remained in tolerable health dur- ing the winter and spring. About the 1st of July she was compelled by poverty to give up her only child ; a severe attack soon followed, and she died about a fortnight after- ward. (Med. Jour. Yol. lxv. p. 309.) Dr. F. remarked that he had consulted many authors, but had found no allusion to polypus of the trachea. 1861. Dr. Win. C. JB. Fifield. II. Lungs. 2140. A large portion of one lung, showing strongly marked pulmonary emphysema ; from a male subject. 2141. And a small portion of the same, cut open. Dilatation of the air-cells excessive; and without any appearance in either specimen, of the interlobular form of the disease. Dried specimens. 1859. Dr. B. M. Hodges. 2142. A thin cyst upon the surface of the lung, of the size of an English walnut, and that was filled with air. Dried, and cut open. 1854. Dr. B. M. Hodges. Emph}rsema between the pericardium and sternum. (See No. 1912.) 2143. The entire left lung, showing the effect of very great compression, by effusion into the pleural cavity. Length of the organ 4£ in., and largest diameter 1 in. Form elongated, and sufficiently regular, excepting a small pro- cess, f in. in length, and which, though not itself adherent,