MORBID ANATOMY. C73 hours; in three hours he had a second dose, and 8 ft. of the worm were afterward passed, with the head ; but this last was unfortunately lost. Dr. L. remarked that Dr. Weinland had recorded cere- bral or cerebro-spinal symptoms in sixty-eight out of one hundred cases of taenia; but he questioned whether the headache, etc., were due to the worm, in consideration of the great relief before this last was expelled. (Med. Jour Vol. lxxv. p. 426.) 1867. Dr. G. H. Lyman. 3063. A fourth specimen ; remarkable for the shortness of the joints. From a gentleman, who had often passed frag- ments of'the worm, and whose health was much affected. Discharged after the use of powerful cathartics for several days; turpentine having been previously tried without effect* 1848‘ Dr. G. Hayward. 3064. A fifth specimen ; about 22 ft. in length. —From a me- chanic, who had been out of health for a long time, but had never passed any fragments of the worm, so far as he was aware. Dr. G., who is a medical electrician, gave him a charge (100 cups — Daniel’s battery), and the worm was expelled before the man left the house. His health was restored ; and no more wras passed. 1863. Dr. A. C. Garratt. 3065. A sixth specimen ; the head, with a small portion only of the worm being shown. Examined by Dr. J. Wyman, and found to be a T. mediocanellata. From a painter, rnt. twenty years, who had served for three years in the War of the Rebellion, and often, from choice, ate his beef half cooked. For the last few months he had lost his appetite, was costive, felt generally sick, with diminished flesh and strength ; no pain. Small pieces of the worm had passed the last month. Dr. P. gave a dose of salts, then milk diet for twenty-four hours, and then 1 oz. of kousso in gxiv. of water. This last was taken in three doses, and at intervals of fifteen minutes; and in ei<dit hours the worm (about 12 ft. in length) came away.°— Di. P. insisted strongly upon the preparatory treatment. ^8^8’ Dr. Luther Darks, Jr. 3066. A seventh specimen. — From a man, thirty-eight years 43 J