607 MORBID ANATOMY. that time, with abscesses twice. During the last three months it had been enlarging rapidly, with severe pain, but without tenderness, and on admission it was about as large as the patient’s head. After the removal, which was attended with much hemorrhage, it was found to be about 6 or 8 in. in diameter, and to consist of a mass of cysts, varying from the size of a pea to that of an orange, and containing a coffee-colored fluid. The patient did well, and left the hospital in about a month. 1869. Dr. It. M. Hodges. 2817. An ovoid tumor, about 3 in. in diameter, quite defined, and with some appearance of a cyst about it. The struc- ture is white, compact, tough, somewhat lobed and lobula- ted, and having a coarsely granulated look upon the cut surface. Glandular hypertrophy, without doubt. 1847. Dr. J. C. War ren. 2818. Another tumor, apparently of the same kind, though not cut through. Size of a hen’s egg; of a rounded and rather irregular form, and with a marked cyst about it in part. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 2819. The same. Nearly the size of two fists ; of a rounded and somewhat flattened form. No cyst about it, though very defined. Quite lobed upon the surface, and somewhat so within ; cut surface smooth; but, on handling, it ap- pears reticulated, like fine sponge. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 2820. The same. The tumor, which is cut through midway, is of a rounded form, nearly 5 in. in diameter, knobbed upon the sui face, and with a fibro-cellular investment about it. The sti ucture is firm; the cut surface uneven or coarsely gianular, with some appearance of lobes, and generally an inteiveiling dense fibrous tissue. Just below the surface, at one part, is a very marked cyst, into which there pro- jects a tumor larger than an English walnut. Ihe patient, aff. twenty-eight years, had a phthisical look, and died five days after the removal of the mass; tubercular disease being found in various organs. (Hos- pital, 89, 32.) The tumor was of two years’ duration, and increasing ; with considerable pain, movable, and uniformly