517 MORBID ANATOMY. fluid was generally clear, but in some of the larger cjrsts rather dark and turbid. Pelvis and infundibula rather small,'and did not communicate with any of the cysts. Cysts were also found in the liver. The other kidney is in the Cabinet of the Society for Medical Improvement, — No. 589. From a young man, nineteen years of age, who always had great thirst, and passed large quantities of urine, so that the disease of the kidneys, it was thought, might have been congenital. (See No. 2455.) During the last mouth the respiration was hurried and panting; and two weeks before his death, when he was first seen by his physician (Dr. John Ware), dyspnoea was the most prominent symp- tom. His countenance was then pale, and had sometimes a deathly aspect. There were also pains in the limbs, pal- pitation, cough, and at last cerebral symptoms. The urine was copious, clear, frothy, of a light-straw color, and mod- erately coagulable. Dr. Ware attributed the peculiar respiration to the de- terioration of the blood,' and this last to the disturbed function of the kidneys. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 2453. A second specimen, entire. Weight, when recent, 26 oz., and length, 12 in. It seemed to be a complete trans- formation ; the cj^sts varying in size, and the thin fluid within them being more or less colored. The other organ, which was about as large, having been cut through, showed, besides the cysts, several large cavities which were nearly filled with a white substance, like soft putty, and much resembling the material occasionally found in the kidneys and other parts, as the result of “ tubercular ” disease. This substance was found bjr Dr. Bacon to contain pus globules, epithelium cells, much fatty matter, and, he thought, tubercular corpuscles. The ureter of this second kidney was obliterated near its origin. The urine, taken from the bladder after death, Dr. B. found to be turbid and faintly acid; density, 1.018. Proportion of urea very small; and as the urine had not become ammoniacal by standing, but little urea could have been destroyed by decomposition. Albumen in moderately large amount. From a man who had suffered for some months, and as it