MORBID ANATOMY. 319 1617. Transverse and very extensive rupture of the right rectus abdominis muscle, at the junction of the middle and lower thirds ; with a considerable amount of.effused blood about it in the recent state. From a woman, oat. twenty-three, who died after the op- eration of tracheotomy; phthisis, with ulcerated larynx. There was no explanation for the rupture; and one or two other similar cases have been observed here. 1861. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 1618. Extensive rupture of the tendinous - portion of the • diaphragm upon the left side. From a man who was run over by a loaded wagon, and died just after his arrival at the hospital (69, 43). The greater part of the stomach and omentum, with the spleen and a large portion of the descending colon had passed through into the left pleural cavity ; these organs, excepting the colon, being preserved in connection with the diaphragm. The left kidney also is seen to be very extensively fractured, and almost torn away from its attachments ; the pancreas was nearly torn across, and there were several pints of effused blood, with other minor injuries. 1855. 1619. The last phalanx of the thumb torn off, and the whole of the long flexor drawn out; a dry specimen. From a boy, who made no complaint of the forearm, ex- cepting a slight tenderness for the first two or three days ; and who returned to his work on the nineteenth day after the accident. Dr. M. remarked upon this case as showing how the re- parative processes are carried on in wounds that are entirely excluded from the air, and its bearing upon the safety of subcutaneous incisions. Several similar cases have occurred here, and the same remark might be made of all of them. 1854. Dr. Henry 0. Martin, of lioxbury. 1620. b lexor muscle of the index finger forcibly drawn out; in spirit. from a lad, thirteen years of age, who fell violently for- ward, and struck his hand upon a nail which lacerated the palm extensively, and drew out the muscle, but did not de- tach the tendon from the finger. Mr. D. cut away the ten-