MORBID ANATOMY. 492 face. Internally there are some small, cretaceous grains, and it is not distinctly fibrous. 1869. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2338. A portion of small intestine from a hog, inflated and dried, with the mesentery, and showing a sub-peritoneal emphysema that was quite extensive. The specimen was sent to Dr. B., who referred to Mr. Paget’s description of the affection, under the head of “ Gaseous cysts ” (Surg. Path. p. 309) ; to Mr. Hunter’s figure of a similar case; to the remark of Mr. H. that hogs are subject to ulceration of the alimentary canal; and to that of the butchers that this appearance of air-cells is not of rare occurrence. In connection with these last statements, Dr. B. further referred to the same form of emphysema that he had seen in a case of ulcer at the pylorusand I have seeu the same in a case of perforation of an ulcer of the duodenum. Dr. B. supposed, in his case, that the air was forced into the cellular tissue from the stomach, and through the ulcer. In the present case the stomach was not sent with the intestine ; but the animal was said to be healthy, excepting the emphysema. 1854. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 2339. A second and similar specimen, from a hog ; dried. The air vesicles were especially at the junction of the intestine and mesentery, and extended thi’oughout a large portion of its length ; varying in size ; some agglomerated, and others solitary ; some imbedded in fat, and otheis exceedingly delicate, and hanging from the peritoneal sur- face by a slender pedicle of some length. Ihere was no ulcer in the stomach or duodenum. 1855. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. 2340. A portion of intestine from the last case; in spirit, and showing well the pedunculated vesicles. 1855. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. 2341. A portion of intestine showing the appendices epiploic® very largely developed and loaded with fat. Several of them, smaller than the rest, were firm to the feel, as from an absorption of the fat, of a dull reddish color, and at- tached to the intestine by a short but firm fibrous pedicle ; looking as if they might readily have been detached; and,