194 MORBID ANATOMY. not much motion between the fragments, but enough to show considerable comminution. A closely fitting swathe was applied, with such extension as wras practicable to keep the limb quiet, and after some weeks he was able to get up, and gradually move about on crutches. After a time he could get along with two canes, and this he did until his last sickness, — walking sometimes several miles at a time. He finally died with some affection of the heart and kidneys. 1869< Dr. B. E. Cotting. 1100. The upper portion of the femur, misshapen, broad, flat- tened antero-posteriorly, rough over most of the surface, with irregular, sharp, projecting laminae of bone between the trochanters posteriorly; the head and neck rising al- most erect, and in a line with the shaft. Structure heavy and dense. Perhaps the result of fracture. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1101. A fracture of the neck from the shaft; extending ob- liquely downward to about 2 in. below the great trochanter. A large piece of bone, 3| in. in length, is also split off from the front of the shaft. The patient, Dr. S. L. D., aet. seventy-three years, was walking, with both arms closely wrapped in a shawl, when he slipped upon the ice and fell heavily upon a brick pave- ment. The limb was found shortened 1J in., with much swelling and eccliymosis, distinct crepitus, and much ever- sion of the foot. Put upon an inclined plane. Chills and fever ensued, with jaundice; and he died on the forty- seventh day. Large and extensive effusion of dark and disorganized blood found in the thigh on dissection. 1868. Dr. John 0. Green, of Lowell. 1102. A recent fracture of the femur, midway. From a child, five years old, that was run over by a truck. The soft parts were most extensively injured, and amputation was done at once (June, 1858) at the hip-joint,— the child liv- ing nearly a fortnight. , This was the first time that the operation was performe in tins city. (Hospital, 78, C3 ; and Med p. 284.) 1858. Dr. J. M. Warren.