134 HEALTHY ANATOMY. emitted guttatim. There was never, however, as the lad said, a discharge of semen or of urine. (Mr. L. says, however, that the kidneys of P. seem to perform their func- tion perfectly; and states that Gen. Wood examined the pair with great attention at his own house, and saw them urinate simultaneously. This last very important state- ment is recorded in a foot-note to Mr. L.’s description, as published in the Philadelphia Journal above referred to ; but in the note to the description in the Hunterian Cata- logue, and in which Lieut.-Gen. Wood’s measurements of Ake are given, nothing is said of the urine.) Erection of the penis took place when excited by imagination or irrita- tion ; but, when from this last, the penis of A did not be- come erect. The pelvis was large and well formed, the nates plump and prominent, and in the place of the anus there was a deep dimple. The nipples of P. were not more than If in. from the “ anter. super, spine of the ileum ; ” and those of A wrere on a line with the shoulders of P. This last had no vestige of a navel; in the case of A. there was an ap- pearance of its having been double, but that was owing, it was said, to the excoriation above referred to. The abdomen and thorax of P. seemed to form one large muscular sac, two-thirds of which were united on the sides to ridges, probably of bone, that arose from the front of A. “ Within the area bounded by this ridge, there appears to be a vacuity in the bony structure of the chest of Ake, and it seems probable that if the two chests do not form one cavity, they are only separated from each other by soft parts ; ” and “ when the lad coughs or breathes the sac of the parasite is puffed up like a bladder.” There was no sig» of a heart in P., and pulsation was only obscurely felt in one place; that was in the femoral artery, and it wras synchronous with the radial pulse of A.; 90 in the morning, and increasing gradually to 115 towards night. (Mr. L. says that pulsation had been dis- tinctly felt in the carotids ; but Prof. M. made a most care- ful search, and could find nothing of it.) Prof. M. says that the bod}', and especially the neck of P. is acutely sensible, but he strongly denies, on the au-