131 HEALTHY ANATOMY. 900. A foetal cluck, entire; in spirit. Two beads almost en- tirely distinct. Crania and cervical portion of vertebrae deficient as in the acephalous foetus. 1854. 901. A small “ striped snake,” with two beads ; entire and in spirit. From New Hampshire. 1851. Dr. William Pitt. A foetal kitten, showing a deficiency of the integument upon the top of the head, and of the brain ; with three eyes, more or less fused, upon the left side, and none upon the right. 1869. See No. 895. Boston Soc. for Med. Improvement. 903. A collection of double trout, newly hatched, and having the umbilical vesicle external to the abdomen. From a trout-breeding establishment at West Barnstable. Several of them are united only by the tail, others by the posterior half of the -body, and in one there was a central eye that seemed to be composed of a fusion of two; but this last has been accidentally lost. In one a head and portion of a body projected from the side. In one the tail is irregu- larly malformed ; and in several, not preserved, there was a marked curvature of the whole body, so that they swam round in a circle. All of these little fishes were quite lively when first received ; and it is stated at the establish- ment from which they were sent that they generally live until the umbilical vesicle has entered the abdomen, and they begin to take food. Dr. C. observed in more than one case that the action of the hearts in the double fishes was not synchronous. A large number of these double trout have been the progeny of a very prolific individual that is kept in a tank b}r itself, and has to be fed, as it is perfectly blind, and apparently from cataracts. Double salmon are also met with in the same establishment, and one or two are here shown. 1869. Dr. Algernon Coolidge. 904. Model of Ake, the Chinese. The following description of this well-known individual is a summary of one that was published, with a figure, in the third volume of the Philadelphia Jour, of the Med. &