224 MORBID ANATOMY. The whole limb was found much swollen ; and, to the feel, the bones were much enlarged. The boy, previously, had become much reduced'and died a month after admission. On dissection, the organs were found pale, and the liver large, light-yellow, and very fat. Tissues about the bones condensed, with numerous abscesses. The bones, having been prepared by Dr. Ellis, the whole femur, excepting the articular portions, is seen to be much enlarged and mis- shapen ; surface rough and irregular, with large foramina for the nutrient vessels ; several cloacae, at the bottom of which small portions of dead bone are generally seen, but of which one only is loose ; structure generally rather light. It appears as if a large periosteal deposit may have taken place; and just above the condyles, anteriorly, this is de- tached from the surface beneath. The tibia is much less diseased than the femur ; healthy toward upper extremity, and lower half most diseased. Posteriorly there seems to be caries to the extent of several inches, but nowhere to any great width. The fibula, which is not preserved, was slightly enlarged toward the lower extremity- 1859. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. 1235. Right femur, very greatly diseased. Lower half much enlarged ; and nearly the whole surface is rough from the irregularly flattened or pointed growths of new bone that have formed. In some parts the periosteal deposit is in the form of a very delicate cancellated structure, covered by a thin pellicle of smooth bone. No appearance of necrosis. Structure, as judged by the weight, extremely light. At about the junction of the upper and middle thirds the line of the bone is irregular, as if there may have formerly been a fracture. 1869. Dr. Charles B. Porter. 1236. A portion of femur, eleven inches in length; much en- larged throughout, and uniformly of a light and reticular structure. No appearance of periosteal deposit, and hardly any remains of the cavity. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1237. Tibia very greatly enlarged, flattened laterally, and mis- shapen. Surface generally smooth. A transverse section shows no periosteal deposit. Walls generally sufficiently