MORBID ANATOMY. 264 1406. Anchjdosis of the carpus, and five metacarpal bones, without any marked appearance of disease. Probably from superficial caries, with rapid recovery. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1407. Bones of a finger, showing anchjdosis of two of the pha- langes ; a similar case to the last probably. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1408. Os innominatum, and upper part of the femur, from a case of acute hip disease. From a boy, jet. thirteen years, who entered the hospital Dec. 2d, 1846 (30, 517). Feeble through the summer, but previously healthy. Disease of left ankle, wrist, and elbow, of eleven weeks’ duration ; result of a sprain ; inflamma- tion quite acute at first, with active constitutional symp- toms, and in two weeks suppuration about all the joints. Ankle quite painful; and bone was felt. Elbow much en- larged, and permanently flexed. Toward the last of the month the first record appears of the hip, and of which, with the knee, he then chiefly complained ; abscess opened at elbow. Gradually sank, with great suffering, and died on the 30th of July. On dissection, the head of the femur was found partially anchylosed to the acetabulum; the cervix broken, but probably after death, as the bone crumbled on the slightest handling, and the cavity of the joint was filled with the reddish, softened debris of the broken-down bone. ISo tubercular disease in any part of the bodjr. After macera- tion there was found some caries of the acetabulum, and a very finely marked periosteal deposit to a consideiable ex- tent along the inside of the femur, and upon both suifaces of the ilium. Where sawed across, the femur itself is per- fectly sound. (See No. 1293 and next case.) Dr. II. J. Bigelow. 1409. Os calcis from the above case. The whole posterior por- tion is destroyed by caries ; and there was in it a cavity of the size of a walnut, and lined by a Smooth membrane. The upper articular surface is carious, but the anterior is healthy. 1856. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 1410. Disease of the hip-joint; in spirit. The cartilage is en-