497 MORBID ANATOMY. about 20 in. from the caecum. The ileum extended about 14 in. below Poupart’s ligament, and then doubled sharply upon itself. The canal seemed quite free, though it con- tained a few grape-seeds; and neither upon the external nor upon the internal surface was there the slightest ap- pearance of a cicatrix. Toward the cul-de-sac, however, a band traversed a portion of the calibre of the intestine, two or three lines in width midway, but broader at each end, and covered by mucous membrane. The upper por- tion of the intestine is larger than the lower; and just above the junction of the two, the upper sends off some- thing like a diverticulum about § in. in length, closely ad- herent to the intestine, and of a white opaque color exter- nally, though without thickening or induration. Whether this was a true diverticulum, that may have had something to do with the descent of the intestine, is uncertain. 1867. Dr. J. S. Jones. 2361. A portion of small intestine, showing, to the extent of • about 2 in., the effect of strangulation. 1847. Dr. J. G. Warren. 2o62. An umbilical, omental hernia, from a fleshy old woman, who died of other disease. The tumor is nearly 2 in. in diameter. 1856. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 2363. A second specimen. Protrusion quite small. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 2364. A portion of omentum, 4f in. in length, removed by incision in a case of large crural hernia; the strangula- tion having lasted seven days. The operation was done in 1805, and was one of the first that was ever performed in this city. The patient recovered, and lived many years afterwards. (See Life of Dr. J. C. Warren, Vol. n. p. 90.) ^lt>47. jjr j Q' Warren. 236o. A pieparation, that shows strongly the conservative pow- ers of natui’e. A man, set. forty-four, had an old, partially adherent, intestinal, scrotal hernia and, as if to prevent any further descent of it, there was stretched across the cavity of the pelvis a strong, defined band, 3£ in. in length and one and one-half lines in diameter; one end of it being attached to the large intestine just where it enters the pelvis, and the 32