444 MORBID ANATOMY. duration, and had had no symptoms whatever referable to the stomach. On examination, fifteen hours after death, the whole left extremity of the stomach was found open, and the contents of the organ effused into the cavity of the abdomen; with a defined brownish discoloration of the surface of the spleen, where it had been acted upon by the secretions. In the membranous portion of the dia- phragm were two perforations through into the left pleural cavity; they were not more than 2 lines in diameter, and but little of the fluid had passed through. No inflamma- tion of either serous membrane, and no softening of the oesophagus. The whole stomach is shown, with a portion of the diaphragm. 1854. Dr. E. II. Clark. 2179. Colored cast of the external appearances in a case of extensive rupture of the stomach in a horse. It was supposed that the animal strained himself in at- tempting to draw a very heavy load, about 11 a. m., and that a partial laceration then occurred. He worked, how- ever, as usual through the day, though he did not eat very well at noon. In the evening, as he appeared to be sick, Dr. Stickney was sent for, and was with him until midnight; there being pain in the abdomen, with eructations of flatus. About 4 a. m. he became very much worse, and at 8 a. m. he died. On dissection, not far from a bushel of undigested food was found in the stomach and peritoneal cavity. The lacer- atiou was in the anterior parietes of the organ, and near the small curvature; extended about 11 in. through the peritoneal coat, and 7J in. through the mucous; the mus- cular being extensively laid bare b}r a stripping up of the peritoneal. It was supposed that the stomach must have been dis- tended by food at 11 a. m., that a laceration of the perito- neal and muscular coats took place then, and that the mucous coat gave way at 4 a. m. 1868. Museum Fund. 2180. A portion of the stomach of a horse, showing several larvae of the bot-fly hanging from the cuticular portion, and several depressions upon the adjoining mucous sur-