234 MORBID ANATOMY. acute caries. Upon the front of the bone is a small, de- fined outlet from it; and toward the back a smaller one. The structure of the bone around the cavity is compact to a considerable extent; and the central cavity commences lower than usual. Externally, and corresponding to the cavit}7, the bone is rough from a new deposit; head flat- tened, and the neck shortened and much more in a line with the shaft than usual. The bone was dry when sawed, and the cavit}7 empty. 1860. Dr. li. M. Hodges. 1283. Lower third of the femur, enlarged, and rough upon the surface. Where it has been cut across, the cavity is oblit- erated, but upon the surface is seen the defined, round opening of a fistulous canal, that extends downward through the substance of the bone, and opens upon the posterior surface just above the condyles. It may have originated in such a cavity as is shown in the last spec- imen. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1284. Chronic inflammation of the tibia. From a man, set. twenty-four years (Hospital, 106, 64). Thirteen years before entrance he struck his ankle, and within a few days had pain, swelling and abscess. Several months afterward pieces of bone began to come away from about the ankle, and along the spine of the tibia, and so on for two or three years, but not since. The ulcers, how- ever, remained open, and the leg had been woi’se. When seen, his general health was impaired ; leg and ankle much enlarged, and the surface diseased. Amputation 3 in. be- low the knee ; followed after a time by chills, hemorrhage, and an appearance of sloughing; and at the end of three weeks by death. The tibia is uneven, and deformed as from chronic un- healthy inflammation. Anchylosed to astragalus, and low- er end of fibula. On long, section, a cavity is seen in the very lower extremity of the tibia, rough upon the inner surface, and capable of holding § i or ij ; and a smaller one is seen in the astragalus. Upon the outer surface of the fibula, and near its lower extremity, is a Very marked growth of new bone, about 1 by 1 Jin. in extent, J in. in thick-