400 MORBID ANATOMY. is about 1 in. in length, and £ of an inch in diameter; and by its side is a second, about as long. The patient was a man, thirty-one years of age. Dura- tion of the disease nine years. At the end of three years it had reached its present size, and was removed for the first time. The rest of the lip was healthy. (Hospital, 116, 18.) An aunt of the patient had had a horn removed from her side ; and Dr. II. remarked upon the fact, as adding con- firmation to the relation between horns and epithelial can- cer, as has been pointed out by Mr. Paget. 1864. Dr. 11. M. Hodges. 2001. Cast of a leg affected with elephantiasis; taken after death. The limb, removed at the knee-joint, weighed fifty- two pounds, after losing much of the serum, with which it was infiltrated. At the largest part it measures 16\ in. transversely ; but just above the ankle, and also below the knee, it very suddenly diminished, and the foot is of the natural size; not much extension above the knee, —the greater part of the mass by far being upon the back of the leg. The surface, to a large extent, was rough from the collection of sebaceous matter or epidermis, cracked, in some parts excoriated, discolored, and brawny to the feel. The skin gradually became very greatly thickened, but blended with the immense amount of fibrous tissue that mainly constituted the mass. Upon the outer ankle is a similar little mass about the size of a nutmeg and very de- fined. The microscope showed a fibrous structure, and nothing more. Muscles separated from it, apparently, by a layer of adipose tissue; and blood-vessels seen in all parts. The patient was a man, about forty-seven years of age, who died in the spring of 1867 ; a Virginian by birth, but a resident of this State from childhood. When six years old he injured his foot; swelling of the leg came on at once, with a shooting pain in the limb, and the disease pro- gressed from that time. At the age of thirteen he went on a whaling voyage; and the leg that had before been smooth became rough, tubcrculated, and cracked, with a serous discharge, which continued more or less abundant