606 MORBID ANATOMY. • set. sixty-two years. (Hospital, 71, 125 ; and Med. Jour. Vol. lv. p. 39, with remarks by Dr. Bigelow and others.) Disease of twenty-eight years’ duration, and was at first a small, hard, painless lump. Soon afterward she nursed a child, and from that time it increased gradually until the last year, when the growth was very rapid. The breast ■was at least three times its natural size, and weighed, after its removal, 2^ lbs.; axillary glands not affected. The mass consists of lobes and lobules of various sizes, and very loosely connected ; with a round cretaceous mass in the centre, about 1£ in. in diameter, and not unlike an ossified fibrous tumor of the womb. Microscopically, Dr. Ellis gave the following as the result of his examina- tion : — u Fragment of tumor contained much fibrous tissue, and many lobules, which looked like masses of small nuclei. In the latter no nucleoli could be distinguished. Numer- ous small, round, or oval free nuclei were, however, seen, containing one or two small nucleoli. Tubuli, lined with epithelium, also were noticed. The disease was evidently glandular hypertrophy.” He adds, “ I examined it also with reference to the exist- ence of cysts. On puncturing many parts of the external surface, there exuded a somewhat milky fluid, which had been contained in fissures or flattened cavities of no great extent. The fluid contained numerous cells and free nu- clei of an epithelial character. Projecting into the fissures, from various parts of their walls, were warty vegetations, some of which had a linear or laminated arrangement. One of the largest of these cavities contained a yellowish fluid, somewhat resembling olive oil. In this, in addition to the epithelium, were found many fat globules, and laige spherical corpuscles, apparently formed by the aggiega- tions of the same.” 1856. Dr. II. G. Clark.. 2816. A coarse, irregular, cretaceous mass, about 2£ in. in diameter, and removed from the interior of an encysted breast; dried. From a woman, forty-eight years of age. Eighteen years before her entrance into the hospital (136, 106), the breast became “ caked” after labor, and remained so from