MORBID ANATOMY. 223 part is quite compact, but still shows some traces of its formation externally to the original bone. The fibula is more or less enlarged throughout, and irregular upon the surface, as the bones so often are in cases of old ulcer of the leg. 1853. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1231. Tibia, very much enlarged and misshapen, from chronic inflammation, with an appearance as if there may have been an old ulcer of the soft parts upon the inside of the leg, and toward the upper part; the bone being carious to the extent of 2 or o in., though not deeply so. On trans- veise section, the wall of the bone all around is compact; and there are no remains of the cavity. 1858. 1232. Tibia of a little boy, set. seven years, who entered the hospital Nov. 29th, 1865 (122, 116). Run over by a horse- cai a 3 eai before, and was said to have had a compound fracture of the leg. On admission he limped about on crutches, with a large, uncovered surface upon the front of the leg, and distortion of the foot. Amputated Feb. 21st, and discharged well March 20th. The lower portion of the bone, to the extent of 4 in. or more, is diseased, except the posterior walls, which are healthy. There is a very marked enlargement, roughness, and irregularity of the surface; and, having been sawed longitudinally, the parietes are seen to be cancellated. There appears to be an expansion of the bone, a periosteal deposit, and a blending of the two ; with some longitudinal curvature, as if the anterior portion had been hypertro- phied by inflammation. No appearance of fracture. 1867. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1233. A portion of the shaft of the humerus, 9 in. in length, and resembling a piece of old, decayed wood. Surface covered with a new growth of bone, soft and nodulated. Extensive caries, with some necrosis. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1234. Femur and tibia, greatly diseased; the result of scrof- ulous inflammation. From a lad fourteen years of.age, who was In the hospital (81, 171), under the care of Dr. B. Swelling, pain, ulcers, and sinuses for eighteen months.