365 MORBID ANATOMY. might be graduated. Pulsation returned in twenty-four hours, hut the patient died four days after the operation from a rupture of the artery at the point of the ligature. The sac is 4 or 5 inches in length, 1 or 2 in diameter, and was fdled with recent coagulum. There was also a firm, rounded, and older coagulum, as seen in the prepara- tion, toward the distal extremit}'- of the sac, and resulting, it was thought, from the distal circulation. The ligature has been left about the vessel; and the rupture of the ves- sel is seen. 1857. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 1798. Thibert’s model; aneurism at the elbow. 1847. Dr. Geo. Ilayivard. 1799. An abscess between the oesophagus and left subclavian artery, and opening into each. From a man, about thirty-five years of age, who, whilst eating his dinner, Nov. 13th, was seized with a sense of constriction in the oesophagus, at about the level of the up- per edge of the sternum ; and, though not conscious of having swallowed any hard substance, he was convinced that something was lodged in his throat. Probangs were passed with perfect ease, and again on the following dav, with a sense of relief. On the 22d copious hemorrhage came on from the stomach and bowels, with faintness and great prostration ; and, after having recurred a number of times, he died on the afternoon of the 24th. From the 14th he complained much of numbness, and loss of power in the left arm, and especially of the two middle fingers. The abscess was 2 in. in length, with dark, loose, offen- sive walls; and contained, besides an offensive fluid of the same color, a shaving of wood, about three lines in length, one in breadth, and exceedingly thin. The opening into the oesophagus was J in. in length, and £ in. below the lower edge of the thyroid ; the one into the artery being two lines in diameter, and about an inch from the aorta. Ihe abscess and the openings from it are marked by colored glass rods. Dr. L. was quite sure that there had never been a bone in the throat, and could not account for the bit of wood that was found. (Med. Jour. Yol. lxiii. p.403.) 1868. Dr. G. II. Lyman.