MORBID ANATOMY. 591 and had been treated by various physicians for prolapsus ; the tumor was at the orifice of the vulva, and the largest cavity felt not unlike the os uteri. Dr. M. at once removed the tumor from the upper part of the cervix, with complete relief; and a year and a half having now elapsed, the pa- tient’s health is quite robust. Dr. M. refers to Scanzoni as having met with and de- scribed a single case of this form of polypus. Dr. Old- ham also describes and figures two specimens, and calls it the channelled polypus. (Guy’s Hospital Reports for 1844, p. 115. — Med. and Surg. Jour., June 11th, 1868.) 1868. Dr. II. A. Martin. 2757. A uterus, from which a polypus had been recently removed. A circular depression is seen upon the inner surface, just above the cervix, quite defined, and about £ in. in diameter. The lower part of the cervix is considerably dilated, and the organ, otherwise, is suffi- cientty well. From a woman, ast. forty years, who entered the hospi- tal April 23d, 1853 (184, 268). She was quite anaemic; having had menorrhagia for about twenty years, following two miscarriages, and frequent hemorrhages for the last two years. A large, soft tumor filled the upper part of the vagina, and a ligature was applied by Dr. J. M. War- ren, on the 10th of June. On the 20th it came away; being 2 in. in length, 1£ in. at the broadest part, and hav- ing a long pedicle. The patient died with inflammatory symptoms on the 2d of July ; and, on dissection, the case was found to be complicated with a large ovarian cyst. 1854. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2758. A firm mass upon the inner surface of the fundus of the uterus ; 1£ in. in diameter, and forming the remains of the pedicle of a polypus, that was removed six months before death. The organ was tubercular, as were the peritoneum, lungs, etc. (Med. Jour. Vol. lxv. p. 474.) 1862. Dr. F. Minot. 2759. Three or four fibrous tumors, about as large as the fist, besides several small ones. The large ones project into the peritoneal cavity, and one of them is to some extent