399 MORBID ANATOMY. flowing, flourishing hand, and was accompanied with speci- mens of his writing, which will be preserved in the mu- seum. “A more formal handwriting it takes him much longer to write.” 1869. Dr. A. M. Hodges. 1999. A horn, removed by Dr. C. from near the chin of a half- witted lad, nineteen years of age. Duration of the growth eight years. The following description was given of it by Dr. Ii. J. Bigelow: — “ The growth is a blunt cone, 2 in. long, by an inch and a half at the base, and split into two parts, with a third smaller division at the root. It is roughly striated, length- wise, hard at the point, and softer at its insertion, emitting also the foetor of epidermic secretion. “ On section, a limited, epidermic, columnar structure is seen sprouting from a dense fibrous tissue beneath the base. The structure is irregular, and broken at intervals, but is harder and drier as it approaches the surface and summit. Microscopically, the whole is a mass of epidermic scales and nuclei, originally arranged in papillary form, of the piobable growth of which the following will give an idea. A central body of nuclei in each papilla grows out from the skin, its top .and sides developed into concentric scales, by which it is, as it were, shingled and slated. This outer layer is raised by another beneath, which in its turn is ele- vated by a third, so that the section of a papilla resembles a pile of inverted cups, of which the centre is occupied by nuclei, and the sides by more developed scales. “ Drynig as it grows, the hardened extremity of this so- called ‘horn’ consists almost wholly of epidermic plates, while the interior of its soft base is filled with papillary &iowth, containing nuclei. At the line of insertion of the w ole mass, nuclei are abundant, entangled in fibrous tis- sue. his epidermic structure has some affinity to that of °in, i'1 its papillae and columnar arrangement more resembles epitheloid cancer, without the globes character- istic of that growth.” 1862. Hr. H. O. Clark. 2000. A horn, removed from the prolabium of the lower lip ; it