256 MORBID ANATOMY. days extensive ecchymosis. The pain and tenderness in the loins was more complained of afterward. In about three months she was able to move about the room with the aid of a chair; but in less than a week she was obliged to go to bed again on account of pain ; and subsequently a lumbar abscess formed. About this time she was found to be pregnant; and just nine months after the accident labor threatened, but she was not confined until three weeks afterward. The child was unhealthy, and lived eighteen months. The mother lived one year and nine days from the time of the accident, and from first to last there never was any loss of sensibility or muscular power, nor any affection of the sphincters, though there was a drawing up of the lower extremities with very great pain. The abscess discharged freely so long as she lived ; and, on dissection, was found to extend from one diseased portion of the spine to the other. Dr. J., who attended the patient throughout, and who has given the above history of the case, supposes that the spine was broken in two places at the time of the accident, and that caries supervened ; but there is certainly nothing now in the dorsal portion to show that it had ever been fractured. The lumbar portion looks more as if there may have been such an injury, but there is no appearance there of any attempt at reparation, though there is an anchylosis of the transverse processes upon one side. 1866. Dr. J. S. Jones. 1376. Section through the spine and pelvis of an adult; bones of one-half preserved in connection, with the ribs. Curv- ature so acute that the body of the eighth dorsal nearly touches the fourth lumbar ; and the lower rib comes in con- tact with the crest of the ilium; those of the three last dorsal vertebrae and the first lumbar mostly absorbed, and fused into an irregular mass. Laminae also extensively fused. The spinal canal is sufficiently large. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1377. Eight vertebrae, mostly dorsal; in spirit. One of the • bodies is very nearly destroyed ; and, the laminae being cut away, there is seen to be extensive caries upon the back