MORBID ANATOMY. 452 duodenum, with the ulcer ; from the above case. Colored after nature Mr. C. J. Blake. 1863. Museum Fund. 2202. A polypous growth, about an inch from the pylorus, quite defined, of a soft, fleshy consistency, and about as large as the end of the little finger. It is cut open, and seems to be formed from the mucous and submucous cellular tissues ; the surrounding parts being quite healthy. 1852. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2203. A very defined, smooth, regular, and prominent tumor, about the size of a nutmeg, aud within an inch of the py- lorus. It is fleshy, evidently benign in its character, and is probably a growth from the mucous and submucous cel- lular tissues ; not cut through. The stomach, otherwise, was healthy. From an old woman, who had had symptoms, for some months, that led to the suspicion of scirrhous pylorus. 1854. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2204. A very large, fatty, and fibrous tumor in the parietes of the stomach. From a woman, set. forty-two years, who had been grow- ing very corpulent during the last year of her life, but was quite healthy until the middle of September, 1866 ; having always had a good appetite, and never made the slightest complaint of the stomach. About the time referred to she felt some discomfort on active exercise, and this gradually increased, but was attributed to her corpulence. Nov. 5th, Dr. R. first saw her. She had been attacked in the night with pain in the abdomen, and what was reported as diarrhoea, though it was undoubtedly hemorrhage from the bowels. Under treatment, the discharges ceased for twenty-four hours, and then returned, with great pain, and a great feeling of discomfort in the bowels; described as tarry, black, offensive, and scybalous. With the looseness, there was noticed pulsation of the carotids, a waxy com- plexion, and slight oedema of the face, but none of the extremities. On the 9th there had been no discharge from the bowels ; but she complained very much of a noise in her left ear, which was audible at a distance of two feet