360 MORBID ANATOMY. 1785. The heart, with a large portion of the aorta distended, dried, and cut open, to show two aneurismal sacs. One of these last is situated at the passage of the artery through the diaphragm, defined and regular in its outline, and larger than the two fists. The other is about half as large, more irregular, situated just above the first, and connected with it. The openings from the aorta are quite abrupt, but not large ; and between the two sacs is a larger and very de- fined opening. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1786. Aneurism of the aorta where it passes through the dia- phragm ; of the size of two fists. The sac was nearly filled with old fibrine ; and, this last having been removed, the cavity has been distended and dried. The bodies of the vertebrae are seen to be eroded anteriorly, and so far to form a part of the parietes of the sac, with the posterior portion of the aorta. Entrance to and exit from the sac quite abrupt. From a man, aet. forty-five. No indications of disease, except pain in the back ; and he died from a rupture of the sac into the left pleural cavity. 1862. Dr. D. W. Cheever. 1787. A portion of the aorta, showing a defined, rounded open- • ing, about 2 in. in diameter. This led into a large aneuris- mal sac that was situated between the aorta and the spine, just below the diaphragm, and that burst into the right pleural cavity. The coeliac and right renal arteries, though not involved, are seen to be completely obliterated at their origin, though just bej^ond this they are of full size. The aorta itself is much diseased. From a negro, set. fifty-eight, who had had “ lumbago ” for four years. 1847. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 1788. A portion of the upper part of the abdominal aorta, showing an aneurism, of a flattened oval form, about the size of a hen’s egg, and of which the orifice is nearly as large as the cavity. This last is about one-third filled with old, whitish fibrine; the surface of which is smooth, as if an adventitious coat were forming, and the whole deposit so thick and firm, or even dense, that the disease may be considered as having been entirely cured for a long time