MORBID ANATOMY. 469 The specimen is about 4 in. in length; and was found by Dr. J. Wyman to consist of mucous membrane, ves- sels, and areolar tissue. He also found what he supposed to be circular muscular fibres under the microscope ; and in the preparation he has passed bristles into an artery, and a vein. It was stated that, two or three days after the removal of this portion, a second was expelled by the nat- ural efforts, about an inch in length. 1855. A similar case, with recovery, is recorded in the Proc. of the Pathological Soc. of London, Vol. m. p. 370; all the tissues of the intestine being included. 2245. Intussusception, from a case of typhoid fever (Hospi- tal, 251, 198) ; cut open to show the inverted portion. There were four or five others in the jejunum ; of the sim- ple form, and, as usual, from above downward. 1863. Dr. J. B. S. Jaclcson. 2246. Cast, in plaster, of two of the above intussusceptions, with the intervening intestine. Colored by Mr. C. J. Blake. In the case of one of them the outer portion of intestine had begun again to be inverted upon itself about midway. 1863. Museum Fund. 2247. Intussusception, at the junction of the small and large intestine. The first has passed onward, and the caecum retains its place ; the appendix projecting from the neck of the invagination. 1847. Dr. J. Q. Warren. The fatal, as distinguished from the simple form of Intus- susception, is found, according to some authors, some- times in the small intestine, sometimes in the large, and sometimes at the junction of the two. In every case, however, that I have examined, excepting one, and in which it was confined to the rectum (No. 509, in the Med. Soc.’s Cabinet), I have found it at the junction of the small and large intestine ; and, further, the inverted caecum has inva- luably been found at the extremity of the invaginated por- tion, excepting one case (No. 492, in the Med. Soc.’s Cabinet). 2248. Intussusception, from a child five months old. Taken sick on Sunday evening, but no alarm felt until Tues- . day, at 4 a. at., when it passed clotted blood from the bow-