294 MORBID ANATOMY. lower lobe of the lung, besides numerous deposits on the pleural surface. There was no disease, however, in any other part of the body. The above is from notes by Dr. Ellis. 1854. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. The six following Thibert’s models were given in 1847. . I)r. George Hayward. 1500-1. Disease of the horizontal branch of the lower jaw, with openings upon the surface, that communicated with the cen- tre of the mass. Removed at the articulation ; and some days afterward the patient died. Section of the same, showing an encephaloid transfor- mation of the bone, with cavities in the centre. 1502-5. Head, and upper part of the chest of a child, showing numerous, purplish tumors upon the head and face; con- nected, with “fungus hematodes” of the dura mater. Longitudinal section, showing the interior of the crani- um, and from the same. External and internal view of the same cranium. 1506. A portion of the cranium, from the temporal region, and showing the effects of a cancerous growth; a perforation equal to about H in. in diameter. A large growth of new bone from the outer surface of the sphenoid, a filling up of the cells of the bone, and a growth of short, bristly, bony fibres to some extent, perpendicular to the surface of the bone, and such as are so often seen in cases of can- cer. The new bone is generally rather earthy in struc- ture. From a hospital patient, twenty-two years of age (75, 246). Pain in head began about three years before death, and there was gradually developed an increase of pain, throbbing in the left temple, protrusion of the left eye, with failure of vision, and finally an elastic, pulsating tu- mor in the temple; her general health being good. Dr. B. punctured the tumor; subsequently tied the common carotid, and ten days afterward, as the tumor threatened to burst, the other common carotid was tied. This last operation was followed by wakefulness, delirium, coma, hemiplegia, and on the fourth day by death. (No. 1748.) On dissection, a defined and very soft encephaloid tumor