94 HEALTHY ANATOMY. skull, and overlying the spine to a considerable extent, was a mass of brain, which had the capacity, by measure- ment, of nearly one ounce and a half; convolutions marked, with some appearances of a cavity, but having no appreci- able connection with the spinal marrow. This last appeared in the form of two longitudinal, and moderately thick ribbons, each about one-third of an inch in width, and nearly or quite separated upon the median line ; the nerves being given off from it anteriorly, and along its whole length. For the appearances of the face, see next speci- men. Internal organs well formed, excepting the renal capsules, but these were hot so small as usual in the “acephalous foetus.” Sex, female. The left lower ex- tremity was much shortened and everted ; the head of the femur being dislocated, and lying near the ant. inf. process of the ilium; upper margin of the acetabulum entirely wanting, but its cavity was of considerable depth, though nearly filled with fat, of which there was none upon the other side.; round ligament considerably thickened. The left knee-joint was also partially dislocated ; the con- dyles of the femur projecting strongly backward, and the leg making an angle forward upon the thigh. 1860. Dr. J. Wyman. 834. Cranium of the above monstrosity; prepared by Dr. J. Wyman, who gave the following description of it, and of a median fissure that existed in the upper lip. Dr. N. C. Parker, of Farmington, N. H. “ The appearances presented b}r the cranium are such as are often met with in anencephalous foetuses, and in addi- tion, the following appearances were noticed. The eyes were' separated only by a very slight interval, so that the inner angles nearly touched. The lids having been arrested in an early stage of development, formed merely a narrow border, incapable of covering the globe. The nostrils were imperforate, though the nasal cavities were normally developed. The mouth was of a triangular shape, with a truncated apex; the upper lip consists of three portions, the right and left converging upwards, and a transverse portion above connecting them. In these particulars the