MORBID ANATOMY. 494 stance, with a great quantity of fibrous matter, were drawn off; and showing, microscopically, innumerable cells, mostly degenerated by fatty metamorphosis. It was thought after this that there must be a cyst. In May and June he was tapped five times, and after the 20th of June the canula was left in ; the fluid varying more or less at the different operations. Sinking was gradual, with great emaciation, great pain, and tenderness of the abdomen, oedema of the lower extremities, vomiting at last, and death on the 8th of July. On dissection, the parietes of the abdomen, the omen- tum, and the interior of the abdomen generally contained a great amount of colloid deposit, in which the microscope showed an abundance of fat; the organs being healthy. There was also an extensive and recent peritonitis. 1866. Dr. W. Read. 2347. A peculiar and probably malignant disease of the omen- tum. The following account of the case was from Dr. Asa Millet, of Abington, with whom Dr. J. saw the patient. She was thirty-nine years of age; had been sick nine weeks when Dr. M. first saw her, and had been treated for ascites. Health previously good. Dr. M. found some ascites, with a tumor, three or four inches in diameter, near the left iliac region ; and he felt tumors by the vagina and rectum. She was much emaciated, and complained chiefly of exhaustion, but not much of pain. The tumor and the ascites increased; and she died three weeks afterwards. The omentum, which was sent to Dr. J., was very greatly thickened, with rounded edges, smooth upon the surface, and dense to the feel. On incision, it was uniformly white, and quite tough, as if composed of a fine and compact fibro- cellular tissue. The uterus, which wras also sent, wras com- pletely invested with the same material, and its substance was more or less infiltrated by it; the'inner surface being nearly white. Dr. M. found similar formations along the large intestine and the edge of the liver, but none upon the abdominal parietes, nor in the organs. There were also six quarts of fluid in the peritoneal cavity. 1857. Dr. John Jeffries.