253 MORBID ANATOMY. firmly attached, of the size and shape of a lentil, existed on the cartilaginous surface of the internal condyle.” 1856. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1366. Astragalus and os calcis strongly but very partially an- chylosed, and with growths of new bone about the edges of the articular surfaces. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1367. Tarsal bones of a horse, showing the disease that exists in spavin; anchylosis, with exostoses upon the surface; and the inside of the joint is as usual most affected. 1368. Two phalanges of a horse anchylosed throughout, so far as appears upon long, section; with exostoses about the former seat of the articulation. The disease is known as “ ringbone.” 1369. The two last phalanges of a horse, strongly anchylosed, with a branching and most exuberant growth of new bone over the surface. This and the two last specimens were presented in 1860. Messrs. Robert T. Edes and John Homans, Jr., med. students. 1370. All of the cervical, with the first dorsal vertebrae. This last is reduced by caries to a thin plate, anchylosed to the first rib and to the seventh cervical vertebra. Spinous processes of the first dorsal and last cervical widely sep- arated. The body of this last projects into the spinal canal, and is carious. Bodies generally in front quite rough, with growths of new bone from the edges. From a man who died from erysipelas. More than two years before, he had abscesses, resulting apparently in dis- location of the cervical vertebrae, and followed for a year by entire loss of power of motion in the limbs ; but this last was gradually restored. There was, also, perforation of the oesophagus, through which his drinks often escaped. 1849. Dr. F. S. Ainsworth. 1371. Skeleton of a young adult subject affected with Pott’s dis- ease. The sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth dorsal vertebrae are involved in a very strong ant. post, curvature ; the bodies and laminae being fused into one mass and very extensively absorbed. Bodies of all of the dorsal vertebrae superfi-