455 MORBID ANATOMY. peritoneal adhesions about them. Three of them having been cut through, were white, very dense, apparently fibro- cellular in structure, and without the slightest appearance of malignant disease ; the others had the same feel. The}'’ were evidently formed in the submucous cellular tissue, though the muscular and mucous coats had become attached in all excepting the smallest, and which was undoubtedly the one last formed. The most remarkable peculiarity in these tumors was the formation of a deep, defined central cavity, of considerable size, existing in four, with an ap- parent indication of it in a fifth, in the form of a dark-gray line; in the smallest tumor there was no distinct trace even of such a line. The cavity opened always upon the summit or centre of the tumor; and in two the orifice w*as so small, though the cavity within was of considerable size, that the idea of a follicular origin was suggested, though altogether precluded by the general character of the formations. The two smaller tumors certainly seemed to show that the cavity was a secondary formation. In the centre of one of the two largest was a deep, defined old cavity, about three-fourths of an inch in diameter ; and in the hard base of it was a small opening leading into another cavity that was still deeper, and of considerable size. Another curious fact was the crowding of the cavity of three of the tumors with some kind of small parasite, in accordance with the well-known tendency that some spe- cies have to crawl into any opening that they may happen to find in the parietes of the alimentary canal. Upon the surface of one of the largest tumors were four small ulcers just penetrating to the dense mass beneath ; but otherwise the mucous membrane over the tumors generally was quite healthy, as it was elsewhere. 2207. A second tumor, from the same stomach, cut open to show the cavity within. A small portion only of the or- gan is preserved with the tumors. 1862. Boston Soc. of Nat. History. 2208. A very large and anomalous tumor in the parietes of the stomach. It was situated in the posterior parietes, about equidistant between the orifices, and extended lengthwise to the organ 3 in.; the diameter was about in., and it