MORBID ANATOMY. (189 screw. It was estimated that about two large spoonfuls of blood and brain followed. The fragments of bone were extracted by forceps ; and he soon recovered, with little suffering; vision in the eye, however, being lost, though the shape of the globe and its motions were preserved. Nothing was required or done except one bleeding, and cathartic. (In those days we bled for everything.)0 The accident happened about the year 1820 or 1821; a year ox- two after, he was lost at sea.” 1869. Dr. Joseph L. Stevens, of Castine, Me. 3113 A second case.-The breech-pin of a gun, that was cmen thiough the right eye, and projected in front of the ear ; recovery, after its removal, rapid and complete. his case occurred in the practice of the late Dr. Henry Tuck, of Barnstable; and the following history is from a tatter that he wrote to a friend, dated June 20th, 1837. he patient was out shooting, when his gun burst; and, hough he was two miles from home, he was able to walk that distance, with the help of his brother. The small end of the pin entered first, and projected immovably about a fourth of an inch near the ear. The iron could not be seen m the socket; but, on passing in an instru- ment, it was seized and extracted. »It required three or four men (Dr. T. says) “ to hold the patient while he was ndei the operation of extraction, and nearly all my strength, winch is not small, to remove the iron. I pulled hem! to r r0? b?“t,S’ reSti“g my taee “P°» his fore- cad to keep his head from being lifted from the table; ” and it will give a stronger idea of the force that must have M man T°h > ^ T' ^ aad P«"* man The eye was so mangled that it was removed at once. n seven weeks the man was at work upon his farm • and he is still alive. ’ The specimen is presented by a son of Dr. T., who is now a resident of this city. 1869. Dr. Henry Tuck. 3114. A thu d case. Cast of the breech-pin of a gun, that was removed from the right upper maxillary bone, after it had been there for eight years. The case occurred in the practice of Dr. James N. Fra- 44