MORBID ANATOMY. 244 able part of the bone, so far as it extends; the surface being partly smooth, though mostly rough. From a healthy boy, fifteen years of age. (Hospital, 41, 198.) One year previously the arm was badly broken, and he had compound dislocation of the elbow. The fracture did well; but four months after the accident two small pieces of dead bone came from the wound at the elbow, that had never healed, and afterward the lower extremity of the humerus began to push out. Fistulous openings formed along the shaft, and for the last two months the upper extremity of the sequestrum had protruded. The arm was found shortened, much enlarged, and very hard ; and the elbow immovably flexed. The lower end of the sequestrum had become black, and the bo}r had “ amused himself from time to time, by whittling off the end with his jackknife.” The bone having been removed, he was discharged in a few days; and, when heard from four or five years afterward, he had a good arm, and sufficient motion at the elbow. 1856. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 1315. Necrosis of the clavicle. The separated portion is more than 2£ in. in length; and, to some extent, the whole thickness of the bone is involved. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1316. Sequestrum, If in. long, from the interior of the hume- rus, and involving to some extent more than one-half of the circumference of the bone ; also a smaller one, 1^ in. long, with some of the pieces of new bone that were remo\ ed with the sequestra. From a young man, nineteen years of age. (Hospital, 111, 119.) Two years previously he had had “ rheumatic fever; ” followed by an abscess about the middle of the arm, that opened some weeks afterward, and had contin- ued to discharge. Pain sometimes severe, though gener- ally slight. Bone removed at once, and the patient did well. 1863. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 1317. Portion of bone removed from the tibia, in case of ne- crosis. One, which must have been loose, is nearly 6 in. long, and includes the central cavity almost throughout, though with only a comparatively small part of the whole