MOKBLD ANATOMY. 191 “ A second point of interest is the development of the obturator internus muscle, which is enlarged and elon- gated so as to form a posterior suspensory ligament. The body was obviously slung in this case between the exter- nal Y ligament in front, and the obturator internus muscle behind. And the tendinous material of the latter is so developed as to justify its description as a tendon inserted at its small extremity into the trochanteric fossa, while it is expanded at its large extremity into a firm fascia over- laid with muscle, and which covers the foramen ovale and adjacent bone. The important part performed by this muscle, in this specimen, corroborates the view I have elsewhere taken of its function in dislocation of the hip. “ Having described the agencies by which the body is suspended, it only remains to add that the inner and atro- phied branch of the Y ligament may have served in this case, and in default of other ligamentary fibres, to limit abduction, and especially extension of the femur.” 1865. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. 1091. A second specimen. Upper part of the femur ; in spirit. The neck, which is almost entirely absorbed, seems to Lave been broken within the capsule; and, the capsular liga- ment being thickened, and firmly adherent about the seat of injury, a close and firm fibro-cellular union must have taken place ; the motion being now inconsiderable. There is strong eversion, and the centre of the head is about 1* in. below the top of the great trochanter, which last is also partially broken. Fiom a voman, set. seventy-four years, who was run °'ei in the street, and lived nearly 7 months after the accident; dying suddenly from cardiac disease. Not con- fined to her bed, but had great pain, with much eversion, and shortening to the amount of an inch. 1856. Dr. S. D. Townsend. 1092. A third specimen; macerated. Slight concavity where the neck should be. Most of the head remains as a de- tached piece ; and the opposing surfaces, as well as the original articular surface are smooth, though somewhat