229 MORBID ANATOMY. outline is distinct for more than one-half the extent, though elsewhere, and anteriorly, it is scarcely traceable ; compact upon the external surface, but crumbling beneath, and of a pinkish color, as in the last specimen. Wall of the bone healthy toward the back part, but less compact in front, where it is blended with the thick periosteal deposit. Cav- ity not affected. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1256. Tibia, enlarged throughout, by an old periosteal deposit, as seen upon the surface, and transverse section. It varies much in thickness, and in some parts is brittle, and dis- posed to flake off, leaving the surface of the bone beneath rough. Walls otherwise not aflfected ; and the cavity is of full size. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1257. A rather defined, and very thick periosteal deposit, upon the front of the tibia, mainly just below the middle of the shaft, and to the extent of about 4 in. Externally it has the usual appearance, except in front, where it is exceed- ingly rough. On longitudinal section, it seems to consist, at the thickest part, of coarse and rather indefinite fibres, that stand perpendicularly to the bone; and beneath these the bone itself seems to have become thickened, cancel- lated, and intimately united with the new deposit. Else- where the deposit has the usual appearance. The walls of the bone are otherwise healthy, and the cavity is of full size. Probably connected with an old ulcer of the leg. *847‘ Dr. J. C. Warren. 1258. Tibia, diseased throughout, excepting the articular sur- faces. Enlarged, dense, and heavy. Externally porous or foliated, and showing very plainly the periosteal character of the disease. On transverse section, this character is unequivocal; but, though the original bone is to some ex- tent sufficiently distinct in outline and structure, it forms geneially with the new deposit an almost homogeneous, solid mass, excepting one portion, which is becoming can- cellated. I he cavity of the bone, in this case, is small. 1847- Dr. J. C. Warren. 1259. Tibia and fibula, showing an abundant, but nowhere thick