503 MORBID ANATOMY. uneasiness at the epigastrium, with oedema of the lower extremities. Dec. 23d, Dr. W. was called to him profession- ally, and found sufficient evidence of malignant disease. The liver was very distinctly felt, and had a stony hardness, with dulness on percussion. There was nausea, such that scarcely a teaspoonful of water could be retained; great pain on pressure over the epigastrium; some jaundice, with great oedema and dyspnoea ; and he died on the 27th. The d}rspnoea may have been connected with a large effu- sion of serum that was found in the pericardium. 1869. Museum Fund. Three Thibert’s models. 1849. Dr. J. Ware. 2383. Encephaloid disease of the liver. 2384. Disease less advanced. The parts directly about the diseased portions are highly^ injected with blood. Internal view. 2385. External view of the last specimen. 2386. Defined, black melanotic masses in the liver. (See No. 1744.) 1849. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2387. A portion of the liver, containing echinococci. — From a man, set. twenty-four years, who died at the hospital, of phthisis (202, 211). “ Upon the convex surface of the organ, near the right edge, was a low, yellow, fluctuating protuberance, more than an inch in diameter, and surrounded by a zone of delicate, pink blood-vessels. On incision, there escaped a slightly opaque fluid, which had filled a syst about 1£ in. in diameter. On further examination, there was found, closely attached to the healthy substance of the liver, a thin, bluish-white membrane, within which was a second, nearly white, quite brittle, about half a line in thickness, and which fell away from the first, and lay in wrinkles at the bottom of the cavity. Upon its inner surface were an extremely thin layer of brown, pulpy matter, and many small prominences. No secondary cysts were seen.” “ With the microscope, numerous booklets of the echi- nococci were detached in the fluid above mentioned; and in the pulpy layer the animals themselves were found in • large numbers, mingled with scattered booklets and fat-