470 MORBID ANATOMY. els, and moaned with pain. From 2 until 8 p.m., on that day, there was no further discharge ; but from that time until Wednesday, at 5 a. m., when it died, there were fre- quent and small discharges of fresh blood and mucus. The invaginated portion is 8 in. in length ; and, upon the middle portion of the intestine, there was a thinly scat- tered deposit of lymph, with some mucus, but no blood. The orifice of the appendix caeci is indicated in the prepar- ation, by a glass rod. 1866. Dr. A. H. Johnson, of Salem. 2249. Intussusception, from a child, set. three years. April 2d it had a short attack of colic; and on the 3d the same, with vomiting. On the 14th the pain at the navel became fixed ; but until the 18th it ate and played as usual. All the symptoms then increased ; and on the 19 th there was constant vomiting. The abdomen was not distended ; but a tumor was felt in the- iliac fossa. Nothing felt within the rectum. On the 21st, at 3 a. m., the child had a natu- ral dej.; and in the afternoon some bloody serum was passed. On the 22d an enema was given, and rejected with a good deal of force ; and the intestine was then seen as well as felt, at the anus. On the 23d it was carried to the hospital (133, 225), where it died about eight hours after admission. The large intestine was completely doubled upon itself; so that, in the preparation, the orifice of the appendix crnci is seen at the very extremity of the protruding mass, and just above it the opening from the ileum, the opening of the appendix being marked in the preparation by whale- bone, and that of the ileum by a glass rod. (Med. Jour., Aug. 6th, 1868.) 1868. Dr. B. J\L Hodges. 2250. Strangulation of the intestine, by the appendix caeci. From a woman, set. forty years, and a patient of Dr. H. M. Lincoln, of Westminster. Two months before her death she was thrown from a vehicle, and injured so as to be confined to her bed for four or five weeks. About six weeks after the accident, and when still quite feeble, she rode two or three miles over a rough road, and in a wagon of which the body rested directly upon the axletree. After this she took to her bed, and never again left it.