MORBID ANATOMY. 589 recovered her health so far as to go out to service as a domestic. 1860. Dr. S. L. Abbot. 2751. A tumor from a married woman, who had had hemorrhage, - at intervals, for four years. Suddenly, and after a long- walk, a dense, heart-shaped, pediculated mass was forced down, so as to protrude externally. A ligature was ap- plied, and on the fourth day it came away; the weight being 2^ lbs. The apex was marked by a smooth circle, and probably due to the pressure of the os uteri. No hemorrhage followed the operation; and, though there was prolapsus of the organ, the patient’s health was greatly improved. The mass looks and feels not unlike the com- mon fibrous tumor of the womb. 1859. Dr. James Ayer. 2752. A tumor, from a woman, set. thirty^, who was in labor with her first child, at the full period, and had had no symptoms of the disease. Dr. C. found the tumor below the child’s head, and it descended with it. After the deliv- ery it remained external to the vulva, and seemed to arise from the whole anterior lip of the uterus. A double lisa- ture was at once passed about it, and it was then cut away ; but, as it bled considerably, a second ligature was used, and the patient then did well. The tumor was about twice as large as a hen’s egg, and resembles a very dense fibroid tumor of the womb. 1856. Dr. B. Cushing. 2753. A tumor, about li| in. in diameter, of a rounded form, and mostly smooth over the surface, but in part torn, and showing the mass to be made up of small, fibrous tu- mors. From a woman, set. forty-six years. The tumor had been pressing down for thirteen years ; and she had had, mean- while, two children and two or three miscarriages. There had been hemorrhage for a week before Dr. S. saw her, but never before; nor had there been an}r return when he reported the case three months after the operation. The tumor was twisted off at the os with the fingers. 1859. Dr. D. H. Storer. 2754. A tumor, larger than the last; of a rounded, and some- what flattened form, and smooth upon the surface; the