MOKBID ANATOMY. 597 The patient was a healthy, unmarried woman, set. twenty- seven years. Duration of disease about one year; and growth of tumor rapid the last six months. It extended to the epigastrium, was not painful, seemed to be distinctly lobulated, and had an elastic feel as if encysted. With the full sanction of the surgeons of the hospital, and deter- mination of the patient, Dr. P. removed the tumor, after applying ligatures about what seemed to be the pedicle. A few ounces only of blood were lost; and the patient was quite comfortable until the evening, when she suddenty fell off, and twelve hours after the operation died ; nearly a quart of blood being found in the peritoneal cavity. The tumor weighed nearly 9 lbs.; and, even after re- moval, the sense of fluctuation was such that it was impos- sible to realize, until it had been cut through in different directions, that it was not encysted. This feeling was owin^ to the structure, which, instead of being dense, as in most cases, was soft and compressible, with large meshes, and a very considerable amount of serous infiltration. There was also in the centre of the mass a considerable amount of effused lymph. It arose from the fundus of the womb, and was invested by a thin layer of uterine tissue. The uterus is preserved with the tumor, and is seen to have been cut through near the fundus. (Amer. Jour, of Med. Sc., April, 1848.) 1848. Dr. Samuel Parkman. 2782. The uterus, greatly enlarged by fibrous tumors, and re- moved, successfully, during life; the weight of the mass being 8 lbs. Both of the ovaries are seen ; and the cavity of the uterus is exposed by incision. The patient was forty-seven years of age, and had known of the existence of a tumor for five years. Con- valescence was uninterrupted; and on the thirty-seventh day she returned home, a distance of about four miles. Before the uterus itself was removed, a tumor that was attached to the broad ligament was removed, and that weighed 16 lbs., after thirteen pints of fluid had been drawn from it. * ibis case has been published in the Amer. Jour, of Med. Sc., Jan., 1866, with numerous quotations, and a full dis-