647 MORBID ANATOMY. them to consist of a fibroid structure, with some attempt at an elongated cell-growth; and lying free within the skin and not involving it, they differ from a similar structure which is occasionally found attached to and corrugating the skin itself. The tumor reappeared soon after he left the hospital; and when he was readmitted, Jan. 3d, 1867, it was of the size of a large cocoa-nut, and weighed, after its removal by Dr. B., 3£ lbs.; the structure being the same as before. It was dissected from the rectum and about the prostate as high up toward the peritoneum as it was safe to go. The patient recovered well from the operation, and was dis- charged on the 2d of February. 1864. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 2985. A large, fibro-cellular outgrowth of the skin from over • the left buttock. From a woman, twenty-five years of age. The disease was of about six years’ duration, growing when she entered the hospital (73, 2), and doubled her only by its weight. The pedicle was large, and abruptly defined; and the mass weighed, after removal, 13£ lbs. The surface was discolored as in elephantiasis, wrinkled, perfectly flaccid, and knobbed to the feel as in lipoma. Confinement to the bed for a few dajrs rendered it smaller and softer; the structure after removal being succulent from serous infiltra- tion. A second quite distinct mass was removed from the subcutaneous tissue ; well-defined, somewhat rounded, and about an inch in diameter. Microscopic appearances as in the last case. The wound after the removal of the mass was 13 by 17 in., and the patient became much prostrated, but finally recovered. The disease, however, returned before she left the hospital, near but not in the cicatrix; and, seven or eight years afterward, when Dr. B. saw her, it was about one-third as large as before the operation. !857. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 2986-7. Daguerreotypes of the above case, which was published by Dr. B. in the Med. Jour. (Vol. lxx. p. 174), with a wood- cut. 1857. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 2988. A subcutaneous tumor, nearly or quite as large as the