HEALTHY" ANATOMY. 130 behind) ; spinous processes, also, of the upper half of this region extensively fused. The sacrum, and four last lum- bar vertebrae are normal. The next, anteriorly, is one of which the adjoining transverse processes are irregularly developed ; in B it joins the last dorsal; but in A, in which the two last dorsal are very imperfectly developed, it joins an additional lumbar. Upon the right of A’s spine, and the left of B’s, there are fourteen ribs; and between the opposing transverse processes of each dorsal vertebra is a small and irregular bone, which is formed, of course, by the fusion of two ribs. Extremities not preserved. 1853. Museum Fund. 898. Stomach from the above ease. Two oesophagi opening about two inches apart. One paunch, large enough to be formed by the fusion of two. A second cavity of full size, and another quite undeveloped. One third cavity only; and one fourth. 1853. Museum Fund. 899. The heart, and some of the large vessels from the above case; injected and dried. The heart is single, and ap- peared externally well formed. The aorta gives off not far above its origin a large and common trunk, that soon di- vides into the two carotids, and a common trunk for the two subclavians of A. About an inch beyond, it sends off another large branch, about three inches in length, and that divides into the two carotids for B. It then receives the ductus arteriosus, and, two inches beyond, it gives off a branch larger than the last, and more than three inches in length; sending off, then, the left subclavian of B, and soon afterwards two branches to the lung of B. These last must be considered as branches of the pulmonary artery, as this vessel is seen to give off branches that went to the lung of A, but none in the opposite direction. One of the pulmonary veins is seen, and the lower cava ; but as to the upper cava there is a question ; there must have been two, and one of them may have had an unusual termination. All of the above vessels were dissected in situ, and marked where there could have been any question about them. Museum Fund.