542 MORBID ANATOMY. 2560. A material that looks not unlike the fragments of a cal- culus, that bad been broken up by a litbotrite, and in bulk about four fluid-drachms. From a gentleman who was first seen by Dr. G. about a year and a half ago. Two and a half years previously be passed about a teaspoonful of fine red sand after con- siderable pain. After this be was relieved for a time ; but in a few weeks be began to have discomfort in passing tbe urine, and for tbe next two years this went on, gradually increasing. When Dr. G. saw him, be was passing bis urine every hour, or oftener, during tbe nigbt, and perhaps every fifteen minutes during tbe day; and always with great pain. Just before this time, a catheter having been passed, it was found almost impossible to withdraw it. Tbe obstruction was without doubt owing to tbe calculi; and, when it was at last withdrawn, tbe pain was excruci- ating. There was some loss of flesh, and of tbe appetite, but tbe patient’s general appearance was sufficiently well. Tbe urine bad generally been fetid, and bad a dirty look ; and once or twice some blood bad been passed. On passing an instrument there was felt something like tbe remains of a disintegrated calculus, or as if it were passing into a sandy beach. A series of operations was then commenced for the removal of the fragments. A very large and per- fectly straight catheter, that was made for tbe purpose, and with a very large eye, was passed two or three times a week for several weeks. Tbe bladder was always first in- jected with tepid water ; tbe instrument was then passed ; and, on withdrawing the stoker, more or less of the frag- ments were forcibly discharged. Since the last of them were got rid of, the relief has been complete, though a catheter has always been required. Tbe fragments that have been preserved, are not quite one-lialf of tbe whole amount that was passed. Most of them are very irregular, like bits of dried mortar, and on an average smaller than a dried pea. Many were smooth, rounded, and sometimes hollow ; and many were surrounded by a secondary deposit. When recent, they were generally lemon-colored, and several of them still have a yellowish