298 MORBID ANATOMY. ing sensation. It was at first hard and immovable, but during the last few months softened in spots ; skin not dis- colored ; exquisitely sensitive to the touch, and with severe pain over the whole head. When first seen by Dr. C., in Oct., there was great intolerance of light, with con- tracted pupils, constant nausea, and vomiting of all food ; but these last symptoms were relieved by diet. Dec. 3d, there was reported diarrhoea or constipation alternately; the dejections when loose being involuntary, and also the urine. Mind clear, but slow. Left pupil sluggish and slightly dilated. Jan. 15th, the tumor was about 3 in. in diameter, and projected about 2 in. Vision in left e)re dim. Semi-conscious most of time. Feb. 9th, vision in left eye quite lost, and very dim in right; left pupil permanently dilated. Confined to bed, but sometimes quite bright. She afterward became totally blind, and died April 24th. On dissection, the tumor, which was 2 or 3 in. in di- ameter, was decidedly cancerous in appearance, though not encephaloid ; connected with and extended to the brain ; feeling externally elastic rather than fleshy. Cancerous tumors were also found in the liver and lungs. 1866. Dr. II. L. Chase, of Cambridge. 1514. Section of a rib and of a portion of the ilium that were affected with a very peculiar form of disease. The ster- num and ribs would bend by their own weight; the bony matter having in some parts entirely disappeared, and been replaced in the interior by a soft reddish growth, which, forming in the interior, gradually approached the surface, and reduced the bone to a mere shell, or entirely destroyed it. The whole spine and the right ilium were simi- larly affected. Microscopically, a delicate fibrous struc- ture was found, almost obscured b}r granular corpuscles of about the size of the nuclei of the renal epithelium, which , they resembled very closely; the addition of acetic acid revealing nothing more. Dr. E. supposed that a new material was formed in the bone, and that it was of a cancerous nature, though the disease was entirely limited to the bones. He has seen recorded but one similar case (Virchow’s Archiv. Vol. xxi. p. 407).