4G2 MORBID ANATOMY. 2227. Colored cast of the stomach, above described. 1858. Museum Fund. 2228. The entire stomach, showing an unusual form of enceph- • aloid disease ; and of which the following description was given, in the recent state. The disease is not continuous, but in separate patches, circular or irregularly oval, about £ in. to rather more than 2 in. in diameter. Altogether there may be about a dozen of them ; but those that seem to be the most recent are indicated by little else than an opacity of the mucous mem- brane, though their outline is sufficiently ■well defined, as is that of the pdtches generally. The larger patches, of which there are four or five, are raised from two to three lines above the surrounding surface, soft in appearance and to the feel, and of a dull yellowish opaque color, with some small dark-red ecchymoses over the surface of two or three. The whole surface of one of these last is deeply ulcerated, but without any induration about it; and there may be a trace of the same in one of the others. Other- wise the stomach is perfectly healthy; there being no dis- ease within some distance of the orifices. There was a tumor, however, externally to it, and closely connected with the stomach and duodenum, which was nearly as large as the fist, and in structure a marked soft encephaloid, with traces of effused blood. From a lad, fifteen years of age, wrho had had intermit- tent fever in the West, but was regarded as perfectly wrell until the 7th of Sept., when he jumped from the back of a wagon, and fell with considerable force upon his “face” or front of his body; followed by an occasional and par- oxysmal pain in the epigastrium, and which would be quite severe on exertion. About four weeks afterward he was running behind a buggy ; and, as the horse was going very fast, when he let go his hold, he again fell upon his “ face,” and with great violence. It was with great difficulty that he walked home ; and, on his arrival, threw himself upon a sofa, very much exhausted, and with great distress at the epigastrium. He, however, recovered so far as to go to school for two weeks; and, at the end of that time, to go to Boston, where he walked about most of the day, seeing