MORBID ANATOMY. 186 the last case ; the head being here, also, much depressed. Great trochanter broken. Rotation outward below the fracture, to the extent of about one-fourth of a circle. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1085. Cast, in plaster, of the upper portion of the femur, show- ing a fracture of the neck of the bone, and in which there was osseous union; a case in which there has been much difference of opinion as to the seat of the fracture. This case was fully reported by the late Prof. R. D. Mussey, in the Amei’ican Jour, of Med. Sc. for April, 1857, with three figures; and copied, with the same, by Dr. Hamilton, in his work on Fractures, etc. The patient, a man seventy years of age, fell upon his left hip from a wagon, and Dr. J. C. Dalton, of Lowell, who saw him, le- ported eversion, crepitus, and shortening by more than an inch. Four or five days afterward he was carried home more than a hundred miles ; and eighteen days after the accident Prof. M. saw him. He found considerable ever- sion, very little pain, and no shortening. The man could support the limb upon the floor for a minute or two, as he stood erect, and Prof. M. thought that there was no frac- ture. In four months he could walk with a cane; and three years and eight months afterward (Dr. D.’s statment) he died of internal disease. The neck is much shortened, and the head more than half an inch below the top of the trochanter ; shaft rotated outward ; head £ in. from intertrochanteric line posteriorly, and If in. anteriorly. A section showed perfect consolida- tion by bone. The specimen has been examined by vari- ous surgeons in Europe, as well as in this country, and their various opinions are given by Prof. M. When this case was entered in the manuscript catalogue of the museum, in the year 1850, Dr. Dalton furnished a history of it, in which he described a shortening of at least 2£ in., a ready reduction, but an immediate return of the limb to its former position, and an entire loss ol power below the hip ; crepitus was not alluded to. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren.