MORBID ANATOMY. 150 blasting coal, when the charge exploded unexpectedly, and the pipe was driven through his head, entering at the junc- tion of the middle and outer thirds of the right supra- orbitary ridge, and emerging near the junction of the left parietal, occipital, and temporal bones. One of his fellow- miners saw him upon his hands and knees, and strueelino- • , « 7 DO O as if to rise; arid, going to his assistance, he placed his knee upon his chest, supported his head with one hand, and with the other withdrew the pipe. This last projected about equally from the front and back of the head; and much force was required for its withdrawal. On bein«- raised from the bottom of the shaft, which was about 100 ft. deep, he shivered as if he was very cold, groaned heav- ily, put both hands to his forehead, shook his head depre- catingly when spoken to, but moved his lips. Three hours after the accident Dr. I was called, and found him comatose, and in a state of collapse ; pulse 35, and weak ; respirations nine per minute, and eveiy breath seemed as if it would be the last. The right eye protruded half an inch, and blood, mixed with portions of brain, was oozing from the anterior wound, which was smooth, and about large enough to admit the index finger; the hem- orrhage, however, being inconsiderable, though free at first. Posteriorly the opening was much larger, and the bones protruded; the extent of the fracture being about 3 in. The gas-pipe (No. 3107.) was shown, and about one- half of it was smeared with blood and brain; 4 ft. 2 in. in length, and £ in. in diameter. Some spiculae of bone were removed from the back of the head ; the free use of stimuli was ordered, with cold to the head, and warmth to the extremities. On the 16th his breathing was stertorous, with a pulse of 40 ; and calomel with podophyllin was given, with beef-tea. On the 17th there was some reac- tion ; and as the medicine had had no effect, it was repeated, and, after an enema, free catharsis followed, with a taenia, 17 ft. long. On the 19th he was more restless, and, as it was difficult to keep him in bed, tart, antimony, with opium, was given. In a very few days he began to swallow what was put into his mouth ; about the twelfth day he began to take