664 MORBID ANATOMY. The patient, a female, set. thirty years, entered the hos- pital June 26th, 1852 (53,100). Disease of fourteen years’ duration. Removed in three years, as a fibrous tumor, and it was then of the size of a pigeon’s egg. Three years afterward it returned. Removed again in April, 1851 ; size of a hen’s egg. In October two tumors appeared, but afterward united. On admission, it had a regularly rounded form, measured 44 by 3 in., and dipped down behind the ramus of the jaw. Had grown more than one-half since April. Surface smooth, but lobulated and dense, though not elastic to the feel; quite movable; neither painful nor tender, but with an occasional tingling, and for a long time after the last operation, numbness, though no loss of muscular power. Tumor removed by Dr. H. G. Clark, June 30th, and found to be fibro-plastic. Operation followed by some paralysis of face. In the autumn the disease again re- turned, and in May, 1853, Dr. C. removed a mass about the size of a filbert; composed, according to Dr. Bacon, “ partly of fibrous tissue, and partly of fibro-plastic ele- ments in various stages of growth. No cancer cells found.” Cast taken in June, 1852, by Mr. Albert F. Sawyer, one of the house-pupils. 1852. Dr. H. G. Clark. 3035. Photograph of a man, thirty-nine years of age, whose orbit was filled by a hard tumor; the eyelids being adhe- rent, and protruding nearly an inch. Twenty-three years before, a tumor formed in the orbit, and in about two and one-half years it was removed with the eye. In seven years the disease returned, but for eight or ten years had been stationary. Removed by Dr. Bige- low ; but a portion of the tumor was left, as it grew from the posterior part of the orbit, and it was thought unsafe to <ro any further. Some serious symptoms followed ; but the man finally did well, and left the hospital (138, 222) in about four months. 1869. Mr. B. S. Kent, Jr., one of the house-pupils. 3036. A tumor between the flexor tendon of the middle finger and the bone.