MORBID ANATOMY. 209 false joint rough and not large nor eburnated. Glenoid cavity well; and coracoid process not at all involved. The' head of the humerus is round, smooth, and quite healthy in appearance ; but posteriorly, and just behind the great tuberosity, is a deep groove that must have corresponded to the edge of the glenoid. Some growth of new bone from the summit of the tuberosity. 1858. Dr. R. M. Hodges. These two last specimens, and No. 1171, well illustrate the remark of Dr. Hodges, that in what is called disloca- tion into the axilla, the head of the bone is generally situ- ated beneath the coracoid process. 11/5. Humerus, from a case of dislocation, and showing a large and deeply indented cavity between the head and the great tuberosity. 1847. Dr. J. G. Warren. 1176. Lower portion of the humerus, from a case, probably, of old dislocation of the elbow. A large, irregular, somewhat excavated and defined surface exists upon the back of the external condyle ; and, upon the back of the inner, a con- siderable growth of bone, as if for the formation of a new socket. A large portion of the original art. surface re- mains, with some appearance of recent caries. Whole bone quite compact. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 11/7. Bones of the upper extremity, from a case, probably, of old dislocation inward of the elbow. The outer portion of the humerus, with the condyle, is entirely destroyed, and in their place is a rough and irregular surface. The inner condyle seems to have been absorbed ; and the olecranon cavity is being obliterated. The coronoid and olecranon processes are very much thickened, and the whole articular surface of the ulna much reduced in size, — the inner por- tion being quite beyond the limits of the humerus. The head of the radius is enlarged, the margin broad and pro- jecting mei the neck, and the whole is inclined outward. About, the centre of the lower surface of the humerus is a shallow cavity for the head of the radius ; and a portion of the art. surface remains for a portion of that of the ulna.