MORBID ANATOMY. 661 hospital (107, 80), ancl the patient left on the eleventh day. The tumor, which has been cut open, is of a rounded form, and has a thin, fibro-cellular investment. In the recent state, a large part looked not unlike boiled tapioca, in which were some moderately firm lumps, and with which there was mixed a great amount of a viscid, transparent fluid ; the soft portion being surrounded by a cartilaginous cortex, about £ in. thick. 1863. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 3027. Daguerreotype of a woman, fifty-two years of age, who had a tumor just below the ear, that had existed for seven years, and had grown slowly until the last two. It was about 2 by 1 in. in extent, quite hard and lobulated to the feel, and never painful. The structure, after removal, was partly firm and cartilaginous in appearance, and partly gelatiniform ; generally of a bluish color, translucent, and wanting both in gland structure, and in that of cartilage. Some inflammation followed the operation ; but the patient was soon discharged well. (Hospital, 61, 12.) 1866. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. 3028. An enchondromatous tumor, about the size of an English walnut, removed from the tip of the nose. The patient was a female, twenty-four years of age. Tumor of four years’ duration, and troubled her only by its appearance and bulk. Described by Dr. B. as a mixed cartilaginous tumor; a fibrous stroma, imbedding a few large cells like those of cartilage, as figured by Mr. Paget in his Surgical Pathology. Patient discharged well on the ninth day. (Hospital, 117, 226.) <1864. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. Enchondroma in the substance of the bone. (See No. 1488.) 3029. A very large tumor, that originated in or about the right . submaxillary gland. The patient was thirty-eight years of age, and entered the hospital Dec. 18th, 1861 (99, 174). The tumor ap- peared over the gland nineteen years before, was painless, and grew slowly, but had doubled in size the last year. On admission, it was as lai’ge as a child’s head ; extending from the malar bone to 4J in. below the mastoid process,