MORBID ANATOMY. 660 highly characteristic. Some appearance of coarse gran- ules, but no cretaceous change. The patient was a healthy Canadian, thirty years of age ; and the disease was of six years’ duration. No assignable cause. Tumor very hard at first, but had become less so, though nowhere soft; not discolored, painful, nor tender. The seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth ribs on the left side, and near the cartilages, were covered by it. Form, circu- lar ; measurement across the summit, 7 in., and projection from 1 to 2 in. Growing rapidly; and had been already once removed, with a portion of the cartilage of the rib. Removed with a portion of the ninth rib, to which it was attached ; and on the eighteenth day the wound had nearly healed. Case published by Dr. W. in his work on Tumors (p. 152). 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 3025. Enchondromatous tumor from the palate. From a man, set. thirty. (Hospital, 73, 215.) Tumor for five years just in front of the fauces, and toward the right side; never painful. Growth slow until the last three months, and then rapid. It was larger than an English walnut, very hard, slightly movable, and not ten- der.— Removed by Dr. S. D. Townsend, and found attached only by cellular tissue. After removal, it appeared perfectly defined, of an ovoid form, crisp, and generally very hard, but in one spot veiy soft. Microscopic appear- ances of enchondroma strongly marked. In the prepara- tion the tumor has been cut through, and to a considerable extent shows well the characteristic appearances of the disease ; the intervening portion having a dense, opaque, fibro-cellular look. —The patient did well. 1859. Dr. 0. Ellis. 3026. An enchondromatous tumor from the parotid region. The patient was a female, thirty-six years of age, and the disease w^s of nine years’ duration. Tumor of the size of a pea at first, and scarcely grew the first five years, but toward the last the growth was quite rapid. Below the ear, form nearly hemispherical, and slightly lobed ; diameter, 2£ in.; everywhere hard and elastic, and firmly adherent, except to the skin. Removed at the