MORBID ANATOMY. 403 2013. Thibert’s model. Glanders in man ; colored. Skin of the shoulder affected. 1858. Museum Fund. 2014. . The same. Scattered pustules upon the face in different stages, with small gangrenous patches. Also exten- sive ulceration, with destruction of the mucous and sub-mu- cous cellular membranes of the nasal cavity and pharynx, very abundant muco-purulent discharge from the nostrils, and great congestion of the pharynx. 1847. Dr. J. C. War ren. 2015. Cast in plaster of the front of the chest, showing two patches of cheloides; colored by Mr. Clarence J. Blake. From a woman, set. thirty-one years. (Hospital, 101, 141.) Disease of nine years’ duration. One of the patches extended across the upper front of the sternum, and measured 3 by 2 in. The other, over the lower extrem- ity of the bone, was more prominent, and an inch in diam- eter. This last was excised by Dr. C., after the cast was taken; and was found by Dr. Benj. S. Shaw to consist of condensed and hypertrophied cellular with fibrous tissue; being composed mostly of fibres, with a few scattered pale cells and nuclei. 1864. Dr. JET. G. Clark. 2016. A patch of cheloides, 2£ by 2 in., with £ an in. of the surrounding integument, removed from the forearm. The result of a scald twelve years before. From a woman, set. twentjr-five years. One scald healed well. The other suppurated freely, was frequently touched with lunar caustic, and finally healed. The cicatrix, how- ex ei, afterward enlarged, and became exceedingly painful, — the pain darting up and down the arm, and feeling as if a knife were thrust into it. About £ an inch above it another patch of cheloides appeared, and the two enlarged to- gether. After the operation the pain was quite relieved, and at the end of a year the disease had not returned. 1847, Dr. J. M. Warren. 2017. Photograph of a powerful .negro whose back is most ex- tensively scan ed b}'lashing. Taken in Louisiana during the Civil War ; and it is stated in connection with it that, amongst twenty-seven thousand four hundred contrabands, a large number were as badly scarred as this man. The