440 MORBID ANATOMY. The bone was swallowed on the 22d of Nov. by a little girl, eleven years of age, but it seemed to pass down as Dr. O. depressed the tongue. Two days afterward severe symptoms came on, and she died on the 1st of Dec. A longitudinal and sharply cut slit is seen in the oesoph- agus, anteriorly, just below the larynx, about one-third of an inch in length, and extending through all of its coats. Extensive, diffuse, cellular inflammation was also found, extending to the ant. mediastinum, with pericardi- tis, pleurisy, and peritonitis. 1862. Dr. C. Ellis. Hemorrhage into the oesophagus, from the subclavian artery. (See No. 1799.) 2169. Cut-throat. From an insane woman, aet. fifty-six years, who had pre- viously attempted suicide. A cut was made, with a very dull carving-knife, down to the spine, between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, and completely divided the oesopha- gus ; the carotid, jugular vein, and par vagum, as after- ward appeared, being uninjured. An elastic tube was car- ried into the stomach ; and the divided extremities of the oesophagus were brought into perfect contact by a suture upon each side, and 6ne in front. The larynx and trachea were then brought together by a strong suture upon each side, and the integuments by two stitches; leaving an opening through which the patient could breathe. The patient was very tractable, seemed to suffer but little, and died within twent}',-four hours. On dissection, the cellular tissue between the oesophagus and spine was perfectly infiltrated with thin pus from the wound to the diaphragm, though the patient lived so short a time ; and the two portions of oesophagus, though gaping posteriorly, are otherwise in perfect contact. In the prep- aration this last is shown, but the stitches in the larynx, and in the integument have been cut away ; and a glass rod has been passed into the carotids. The knife and tube are also shown. (American Jour, of Med. Sc., Jan. 1853, p. 95.) 1854. Dr. B. E. Cotting. 2170. Stricture of the oesophagus, from a woman, aet. forty- seven years, who had had dysphagia for ten or twelve years, and seemed at last to die from inanition. Several