92 healthy anatomy. Age about seven months; and sex, female. No trace found of brain or spinal marrow; the nerves of this last last seeming to connect only with the membranes. Renal capsules very small, and united across the spine. Other- wise nothing unusual, excepting a fissure of the soft and hard palate. 1856. Dr. Alfred Hitchcock, of Fitchburg. 830. Cranium and trunk; the fissure extends to the sacrum, and there is a strong antero-posterior curvature of the cer- vical upon the upper part of the dorsal portion of the spine. Ihe wings of the cervical vertebrae are extensively fused upon the left side, and the bodies of the vertebrae at the curvature are irregularly developed. Eleven ribs upon each side; extensively fused upon the left, and somewhat so upon the right side. Labor at about seven and one-half months, and the quantity of liquor amnii large. Weight of the foetus, 1 lb. 14£ oz., and length, 11£ in. 1864. Dr. John 0. Green, of Lowell. 831. Cranium and trunk; the fissure extending to the twelfth dorsal vertebra. Antero-posterior curvature such that the two halves of the posterior portion of the occiput rest directly upon the wings of the sixth dorsal vertebra. The bodies of the three last dorsal vertebrae are well-formed ; that of the ninth is triangular, with its apex upward, whilst those of the other vertebrae are formed in about equal and lateral halves, quite regularly in the dorsal por- tion, but being more imperfectly developed in the cervical. These lateral halves are then separated, and an opening is the result, that is half an inch in diameter. The three or four last of these divided bodies of the dorsal vertebrae are fused upon each side. The laminae of the cervical vertebrae are also fused, and almost throughout, upon each side. The mother had previously had four children, well- formed. Motions felt in the present case, as usual. La- bor at seven and one-half months. Quantity of liquor amnii very great. Knee presented, with the cord hanging from the vagina. Child a male, and still-born. During her pregnancy the mother was so much frightened