MORBID ANATOMY. 651 2999-3000. Casts of a large tumor that was regarded as a fungoid disease of the right upper maxillary boue. Case reported by Dr. W. in his work on Tumors, with three figures (p. 484). — The patient, a little girl twelve years old, entered the hospital many years ago for an operation, and Dr. W. favored it, though in consultation it was de- cided to leave her to her fate. The second cast shows a great and rapid increase of the disease. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. A few years afterward, I saw this child, and there was no trace of disease on careful inspection of the mouth. She had passed into the hands of a quack after leaving the hospital, and, by the repeated application of caustics, he had completely eradicated the disease. oOOl. Photograph, before operation, of a case of tumor in the parotid region. The patient was a negress, set. fifty-nine years, and the disease was of twenty years’ duration. No pain at first. The tumor began behind and below the angle of the lower jaw, and extended upward upon the cheek, and down- ward and forward among the muscles of the neck. After removal (Aug. 6th, 1866) it was about as large as the two fists, somewhat lobulated, quite defined, uniformly dense, not vascular in appearance, and presented under the microscope a mixed fibrous and glandular structure. The side of the face was slightly paralyzed after the operation; but the woman is now (Aug., 1868) in good health, and there is no evidence of any return of the disease. 1866. Dr. W. G. Wheeler, .of Chelsea. 3002. A “ fibro-nucleated ” tumor from the left pleural cavity. The patient was a woman, forty-one years of age. In May, 1858, she was delivered of a large, healthy child, and recovered slowly, but was not well from that time. In Oct. she came under the care of Dr. S., with pain on the left side, cough, some dyspnoea, an inability to lie upon the right side, and with physical signs of effusion into the left side of the chest. Gradually got worse, and died on the 15th of January. On examination by Dr. Ellis, the left side was found greatly distended by the tumor, which weighed, with the