HEALTHY ANATOMY. 109 there open separately the small intestine, which is larger than natural, but only 3 ft. long, the large intestine which is only in. long, and three lines in diameter, and a well- developed and independent appendix cseci; the two last openings being traversed by bands. There is also a small and irregular offset from the large int. near its outlet. The uterus is in two widely separated portions ; the right about as large as the whole organ should be, with its tube, ovary, os tincm, and vagina ending in a cul-de-sac; the left was smaller and without a vagina, but otherwise the same. There is also the form of spina bifida above de- scribed (No. 853) ; the tumor over the sacrum being two or three inches in diameter, covered by integument and a very thin layer of fat, and discharging, when opened, a clear serum. 1860. Dr. C. Ellis. 865. A foetus, preserved entire. The liver, with a large portion of the small and large intestine, protrude at the umbilicus, and were in the recent state, as now, entirely uncovered. The placenta adhered to the top of the head ; and the cra- nial cavity, which was large, was mostly filled by serum, though there was also an undeveloped brain. The vault of the cranium was entirely wanting; the base being well developed. The left thumb is a mass of flesh, attached by a thread-like process, and this is the only other unusual external appearance. Labor occurred at the fifth month, and the breech presented. 1866. Dr. J. S. Jones. 866. Cast, in plaster, by an Italian, of a premature foetus, and colored by a German artist. The mother was but seven- teen years of age, and used means to procure abortion at the fourth month. Quantity of liquor amnii very large. Head presented. Cord about 4 in. in length, and child gasped a few times. Weight, 2 lbs. 2£ oz. The eyes are far apart, and have a remarkably staring look, from a want of development of the lower lids. The upper jaw, from its prominence, suggests the idea of the beak ol a bird ; the lower jaw retreating, and being ex- ceedingly movable. The tragus alone represents the external ear.