APPENDIX. 747 seem to be two small fibroid tumors of the womb, but they are probably of no account. The preparation above referred to, consists of glycerine 7 oz., brown sugar 1 oz., and nitrate of potash £ oz.; but, as Dr. B. finds that the specimen is liable to mould, he adds of pure carbolic acid, §ij. The specimen is saturated with this preparation for ten or fourteen days, and then hung up to drip in a loosely covered jar, and in a warm and dry place. 1870. Dr. H. II. A. Beach. 3678. Cast of the thumb, showing an enchondromatous tumor in front of the last phalanx, and about the size of a large nutmeg. — The patient was a woman, twenty-five years of age, who entered the hospital Jan. 7th (143, 112). Tumor of two and a half years’ duration; of a regular, rounded form, translucent, soft, though not fluctuating, painless, and only interfering mechanically with the motion of the joint. Growth slow at first, but more rapid the last year. It was very easily removed by Dr. Cabot, and the patient left on the 13th, with the wound nearly healed. — Cast taken by Mr. T., one of the house-pupils. 1870. Mr. Frederick H. Thompson, tried, student. 36/9. Eight and a half inches of the humerus, removed at the shoulder-joint, for neuralgia. The patient was an active and powerful man, seventy- one years of age, and served as an artillerist in the Civil M ar. In 1864 his hand was severely injured by the pre- mature discharge of a cannon, and was amputated at the wrist-joint. Subsequently the forearm was amputated twice, and the arm twice, for the intense and almost con- stant pain that he suffered, not in the limb that remained, but in the hand and fingers that had been removed ; eight or nine grains of morphine being injected subcutaneously and daily, before Dr. H.’s operation, — and the left arm being scarred from the deltoid to the wrist. Since the last amputation of the arm, the nerves, also, had been dissected out from near the deltoid attachment; and, on dissection of the stump, since the last operation, the only nerve that Dr. II. could find, was the musculo-spiral. About a year after the first operation the humerus was