MORBID ANATOMY. 420 2092. Casts, in plaster, from two different subjects, to show the notched and crescentic appearance of the edges of the upper central incisors, and the pegged and irregular ap- pearance of some of the other teeth, as observed by Mr. J. Hutchinson, of London, in cases of inherited syphilis. This has been noticed particularly in the upper teeth, and about the period of the second dentition ; and with it there may be other indications of disease. Dr. W. has given two other casts to the Med. Soc., and has met with many cases of the affection. 1869. Dr. II. W. Williams. 2093. A salivary calculus, of an irregular form, equal in bulk to one-third of an inch, or more, in diameter, and that was supposed to have formed in the sublingual duct. It con- sisted, as usual, of the phosphate, with a little of the carb. of lime, and organic matter. From a man, forty years of age, who for some months had had severe neuralgic pain, with a considerable drawing down of the right side of the face; an external swelling then appeared below the lower jaw upon the right side, and it was thought a fistulous opening would form. In about a week, however, this subsided, and a corresponding swelling came on, internally, about opposite the canine tooth. In a few days the calculus appeared at a small opening, and was readily extracted by the forceps, with entire relief to the pain, and improvement of the general health, which had previously declined. 1860. Mr. Frank D. Beer, mecl. student. 2094. A second specimen, of similar composition, one-fouith of an inch or more in diameter, and weighing 15 grs. From a man, set. forty-eight years, who first had severe pain under the side of the tongue, followed by a swelling, and at times excruciating pain. Suppuration at last took place, and the calculus was discharged with perfect lelief. The whole duration of the disease was fourteen jcais. 1860. '.Dr. II. B. Burnham, of Epinng, iV. II 2095. Two salivary calculi; one about J in. in diameter, and the other about one-third as large ; from a man, set. twent\ - eight. The largest was discharged, in 1S63, through an