MORBID ANATOMY. 157 tion ; and, when he left the hospital, his head was decidedly better, though he still became dizzy on quick motion. This, and the following cases, may be introduced here, though not cases of fracture. 1849. Dr. George Hayward. 969. A second specimen; bi-concave in form, and with a small perforation in the centre. A delicate projection of bone adhered to the dura mater, and was accidentally broken off after the operation. The patient was a clergyman, mt. forty-one, who had had epilepsy for nearly twelve years. The fits came on immediately after the healing of an ulcer on the head, and from which a piece of bone had been discharged. At first they were very frequent, and he always had a heavy and distressing sense of pressure, that was referred to the cicatrix as a centre. This last was just behind the coronal suture, upon the left side, and quite depressed. On the 17th of March, 1838, he entered the hospital, and on the 24th, Dr. H. removed the bone with the trephine; the re- lief from the feeling of pressure being immediate, and the recovery from the operation rapid, so that he left the hospi- tal on the 9th of April. The above account is from a full history of the case, by Dr. H., in the Med. Jour. (Vol. xvm. p. 325). In 1866, the patient died of an abdominal disease, from which he had suffered for several years, and on inquiry of his family the following facts were ascertained: that he began to preach about two months after leaving the hospital, contin- ued to for ten years, and was subsequently occupied in va- rious literary pursuits ; had seven or eight fits during the first ten years, and four or five subsequently, — the first in November, 1838, and the last about four years before his death; complained comparatively little of his head after the operation. 1849. Dr. Geo. Hayward. 970. A large portion of the parietal bone, with a portion of it that was removed by the trephine. This last is about two- thirds of an inch in thickness, and the parietal upon one side of the opening is seen to be much thickened.