634 MORBID ANATOMY. size of a hen’s egg, immovable and painless; the integu- ments being healthy. Adhesions everywhere intimate, and even to the styloid process. It was, however, dissected out entire, except at one point, where at the summit of the cyst was a hole, large enough to admit a probe, passing through the cartilage of the ear, and appearing beneath the skin, within the concha, and near the meatus; and from this, as a point of departure, Dr. B. thought that the whole cyst had expanded. The inner surface of the cyst was mostly red and shining; but, microscopically, an im- perfect epithelium was seen, and particularly toward and within the perforation. The contents were very remarka- ble ; §ij. of a limpid yellowish oil, perfectly resembling common lamp-oil, and congealing soon after its discharge, at a temperature of 65°; followed by about a dessert- spoonful of what appeared to be a ceruminous and epi- thelial substance, in the form of whitish, opaque, floccu- lent masses. A small seton was passed through the perforation in the cartilage; and the patient did n ell. 185g_ Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 2949. A meliceric cyst, removed from beneath the chin of a healthy lad, fifteen years of age. (Hospital, 79, 52.) The tumor began seven j^ears before, on the median line, increased slowly, and only troubled the boy mechanically. Extended to the left angle of the jaw, and looked like a double chin ; fluctuation perfect. The sac contained §iij. or iv. of thick, gray, meliceiic matter, and was lined apparently by skin. At the end of three weeks the patient was discharged, with the wound nearly healed. 1858. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. 2950. Contents of the above cyst; composed of large pave- ment epithelium, fatty matter, and cholesterine. 18o8. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 2951. Thibert’s model. An atheromatous tumor beneath the scalp, about 2 in. in diameter. 1847. Dr. Geo. Hayward. 2952. A thin cyst beneath the scalp, and filled with fluid; about 2 in. in diameter. 1847. Dr. G. Hayward. 2953. Cast of an encysted tumor from the scalp ; of a flattened