218 MORBID ANATOMY. smooth upon the surface, involving a large part of its cir- cumference, and having within it a large cavity upon the surface of the bone, and in which was at first a very small sequestrum. The whole is exceedingly light and atrophied. 1868. Dr. W. C. Blaisdell. 1202. Both humeri, with one bone from each forearm; en- larged, and rough upon the surface, as from chronic ostitis. One of the bones having been sawed, the cavity is seen to be nearly obliterated, but without an}’’ appearance of peri- osteal deposit. From a female, dissecting-room subject, and prepared by Dr. H. 1856. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1203. Humerus and fibula, from a young adult. The greater part of the two bones is enlarged, but generally sufficiently smooth. Humerus compact in structure ; central cavity of full size, and without any appearance of caries, though it opens by a cloaca upon the surface of the bone; and upon the corresponding surface of the integument there ivere some appearances of old disease. 1858. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1204. The remains of extensive chronic inflammation of the tibia, with anchylosis of the knee and ankle-joints; the knee being bent to a right angle. From a young man, set. nineteen years, who entered the hospital in May, ’63 (104, 251). Four years previously he had erysipelas of the right leg, followed by a sore, and stiffness of the knee; at the same time there was severe pain in the left hip-joint and thigh; and when he left his bed the hip was found to be dislocated; this last being marked on admission, with remains of old ulcers along the right tibia. The limb was amputated; and, after some sloughing of the stump, the patient was discharged well in two months. 1864. Dr. J. M. Warren. 1205. Bones of the leg, with a portion of the femur, showing bony anchylosis between the femur and tibia, femur and patella, tibia and head of fibula ; with a hole in the place of the centre of the joint, as usual. The lower fourth of the tibia is healthy ; but the rest of the bone is enlarged,