303 MORBID ANATOMY. rounding parts, being quite healthy, have been removed. The structure is mainly osseous, light, brittle, and fibrous ; many parts externally suggesting the idea of some kind of coral or of sponge; some of the spiculae being very delicate. Nowhere foliated, compact, nor at all pulverulent. The fleshy portion of the tumor consisted of a white, dense, fibrous tissue. The two bones were firmly connected by the morbid growth ; the outline of the ulna being through- out sufficiently distinct; and the very lower extremity quite healthy. The radius, in which the disease seems to have commenced, is traceable to a considerable extent, but be- low this it is quite lost in the tumor; the bones not being enlarged so far as they are traced, and their cavities being obliterated so far as the tumor extends. In the present dried specimen a large section has been made near the sur- face, to show the structure, and some fragments are seen that were detached by maceration. A piece is also seen of the size of a large nutmeg, but of a flattened, oval form, and that in the recent state was entirely distinct from the main tumor, though in close apposition with it; this piece being movable as a distinct mass, before the amputation. From a healthy young lady, twenty-four years of age. In 1857 she sprained her wrist. Six or eight weeks after- ward a tumor appeared on the radius, and slowly increased ; and subsequently others on the ulna. In 1860-1 portions were removed at three different times. In April, ’62, when she entered the hospital (101, 174), the tumor was 12 in. in circumference, having doubled in size the previous year ; regarded beyond question as enchondroma, from its some- what knobbed form and densely elastic feel. The limb was amputated 4 in. below the elbow, on the 12th, and she wras discharged May 12th. At the end of a year or more there was no return of the disease. 1863. Dr. II. J. Bigeloiv. 1524. The other half of the above ; in spirit. 1863. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. 1525. Portion of the calvaria, showing the effects of an old burn, and of an epithelial cancerous growth from the dura mater. (Series xxm.) 1861. Dr. J. H. War ren, of Dorchester.