300 MORBID ANATOMY. 1516. Photograph of the above patient before he left the hos- pital. 1§69. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1517. Long, section of a portion of the femur, showing a large cancerous tumor investing the bone ; in spirit. From a lad, sixteen years of age. (Hospital 80, 219, and Med. Jour. Vol. lx. p. 329.) An immovable and slightly painful tumor was first noticed seven months before en- trance, and increased slowly. When seen, the thigh was , flexed, and the upper half occupied by a firm and painful tumor, which was distinct and somewhat nodulated in front, and in contact with Poupart’s ligament; indefinite behind ; the circumference being 7 in. greater than that of its mate. There was some motion in the joint, and the lad, though very lame, could walk with support. Amputated at the hip-joint, March 28th, 1859, and the artery having been first tied, and the aorta being compressed, scarcely any blood was lost. Secondary hemorrhage occurred on the twenty- fourth day, but the patient rallied from the effects of it, and was discharged well on the 10th of May. He died, how- ever, some months afterward, with pain in his back ; and nothing more is known of the final result. The diseased growth surrounded the bone, arose from its surface, and extended from the middle of the shaft to the neck ; being cancerous in its general appearance, and also miscroscopicalty. In structure there were some spieulm of bone, but it consisted mainly of a firm, coarse, fleshy substance. Parietes of the bone somewhat thickened mid- way, and the central cavitjr mostly obliterated ; but other- wise there was nothing remarkable. 1861. Dr. J. 31. Warren. 1518. Long, section of the upper half of the femur, which was surrounded by a cancerous growth ; in spirit. From a man, thirty-nine years of age. Entered the hos- pital April 3d, 1858 (78, 48). Struck the thigh about thirteen months previously, and about ten months before admission, pain came on with hardness, and subsequently some external inflammation ; pain at last excruciating, with constitutional affection. On the 17th a piece of the tumor was removed, and found microscopically, by Dr. Ellis, to