MORBID ANATOMY. 563 phosph. and a little carb. of lime. The calculus con- tained, in addition to the mineral substances, a larger pro- portion than usual of epithelial debris, and other hideter- minate animal matter.” 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 2678. Calculi, passed from the urethra. The patient was a single woman, set. fifty-five years, and severely troubled by lheumatism for about sixteen years. For about a year sh'e had had uneasiness in the region of the bladder, with increased turbidity of the urine ; there having been a mu- cous deposit for some time before. These symptoms in- creased, and about the last of July the calculi were passed at once, and without pain. For a few weeks previously she had kept her bed, but her health afterward improved, and the urine became nearly free from mucus. Dr. White found the calculi to consist, principally, of phosphate of lime, with the ox. and carb. 1868. Dr. James S. Greene, of Milton. 2679. Fragments of a calculus, with fine debris, from a case of lithotrity; and amounting altogether, in bulk, to about 3vij. The patient, a man aet. thirty-eight years, entered the hospital July 26th, 1869 (140, 218); had had symptoms of disease for four years, and was constantly getting worse. ^ Pain in the bladder, and especially after micturi- tion. Urine passed frequently ; and with a sudden stoppage ol the flow, when he strained violently. On admission, there was a dull pain in the bladder most of the time ; very severe pam in the end of the penis after micturition ; and an occasional mucous sediment. A stone was felt, and on the 28th it was crushed by Dr. Id. ; the operation being followed by chills. Aug. 9th, a second operation; but nothing of any amount came away. A severe chill fol- lowed, and the man died on the 12th ; a fine sand having been passing more or less every day from the time of the first operation. The bladder was contracted into a firm ball, of a dark ash color, upon the inner surface, and contained fragments of the calculus; but these last were mostly in a pouch, that was anterior to the prostate gland, and ulcerated upon the inner surface.