MORBID ANATOMY. 501 recent, with serum. No evidence, microscopically, of para- sitic origin. The liver, otherwise, was quite healthy. From a case of Addison’s disease. 1861. Dr. C. Ellis. 2375. Thibert’s model. Fatty liver. 1849. Dr. J. Ware. 2376. A portion of fatty liver, in an empty jar. The fat has exuded spontaneously; and, at an average summer tem- perature, resembled clear olive-oil; but for the last few years it has not liquefied even in the summer season. 1857. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2377. Thibert’s model. “ Cirrhosis,” but not well represented. 1849. Dr. J. Ware. 2378. Portion of a granulated liver. This would seem to be a much more proper term than “ cirrhosis,” as this last has reference (as Cruveilhier remarks, — xippoe, yellow) to the color, that is, generally, though by no means always ob- served ; the organ being sometimes red and occasionally green ; whereas, it is always granulated when the disease exists in any marked degree. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 2379. A section of the liver from a sheep, and showing a peculiar structural change. It resembles three specimens (Nos. 1459-61) that were examined at the Fort Pitt Museum, near London, in 1851, as perfectly as if it were from the same subject. In the catalogue of that Museum, the liver is described as having a peculiar cribriform or honeycombed appearance, from small cavities in its sub- stance ; the cavities not lined by a membrane, and con- tained no fluid ; structure soft and homogeneous, and had, in the recent state, a bluish or leaden hue; disease of the liver not suspected during life. — From Mr. John Arthur, of the University of Edinburgh. 1852. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2380. Peculiar disease of the liver, from a little boy, set. six years, who had had ascites, drowsiness, etc., for some months. (Hospital, 237, 128.) The organ weighed two pounds ten ounces. “ Of an olive-brown color, through which ran irregular white lines of fibrous tissue. Very firm, and required considerable force to make an incision. Externally studded with small granulations, which were less marked on cut surface; but, on pressure, the latter was seen to be studded with minute