315 MORBID ANATOMY. nal bone is surrounded by, and closety connected with, a recent periosteal deposit; the first is thin and compact, and the second, by contrast, light in structure and quite thick. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1601. A transverse section from the extremity of an amputated femur. The original bone is thin, rough upon the surface, as usual in sequestra, and shows at the extremity the smooth cut of the saw. Loosely surrounding this is a thick, coarse, and almost earthy-looking periosteal deposit. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1602. Exfoliation from the femur, after amputation, 6 in. in length and rough upon the surface, but involving almost throughout the entire circumference of the bone. From a man who entered the hospital (33, 162), Nov. 27th, 1847, with a recent wound of the femoral artery, and for which the vessel was tied by Dr. IL, Dec. 18th. Mortifi- cation soon followed, and the limb was amputated by Dr. Parkman on the 10th of Jan. On the 20th the end of the bone was exposed, and the following June it had become loose; the whole stump being enlarged and indurated as by a new osseous deposit around the sequestrum. This last was removed on the 22d of June, and considerable foice was required. August 5th, 1848, the stump was doing well, and the man was discharged. This specimen and the two last form, together, an inter- esting series, as showing the progress of exfoliation from an amputated stump. 1848. Dr. Geo. Hayward. 1603. Upper two-thirds of the femur, removed after death, and about seven weeks after amputation. (See No. 1439.) The stump healed rapidly and thoroughly, except at one point, from which a discharge was almost constant until death. On dissection, the periosteum was found inflamed, and the cavity of the bone closed at its extremity by a soft substance. Artery plugged up to the extent of 4 in.; and the sciatic nerve was larger than usual, but not bulging v lune divided. In the prepared specimen, a small exfolia- tion is seen to be going on from the end of the bone; and the sui face of this last shows the effects of inflammation. Dr. S. D. Townsend.