HEALTHY ANATOMY. 135 thority of A., the statement of his keepers, that when any part of P.’s body is pinched, the corresponding part of his own feels a sensation. This seems altogether improbable, and yet Mr. L. says that the experiment was tried, and “ the statement most satisfactorily confirmed by an ingenious medical gentleman.” 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 905. Cast, in plaster, of a child, from the right hypochondrium of which there arise one upper and two lower extremities, that are largely, and apparently well developed, excepting a deficiency of the fingers. The lower part of the trunk of the dependant seems also to have been considerably developed. The child itself is 22 in. long, and otherwise well formed externally. So far as it can be ascertained, it came from Canada, was exhibited in New York in 1858, and died of pneumonia at the age of 4^ months. It was bright and vigorous, and the adventitious limbs had the power of motion. It was said that there was an anus, and a penis, with excretions, but this statement was contra- dicted. Case never published, so far as known. 1861. Museum Fund. 906. Photograph of a child, seven months old, that had a large congenital tumor attached to the cheek, and in which were found the organs of a second child. i Prof. Joseph Pancoast, of Philadelphia, who removed the tumor, and sent the photograph to Dr. W., stated to him in a letter, dated Dec. 7th, 1859, as follows : — “ I find a rudimentary bony pelvis and limbs, a large stomach and large intestine, the latter having striped mus- cular fibres at its lower end, and terminating in a cul-de- sac. The stomach and intestinal canal communicated by three orifices with the external air ; and a tubular process of the buccinator muscle of the perfect child (which is now well and hearty) seems to have been employed to pump the air through these orifices into the hollow viscera. The absorbent glands were numerous and large. It had an independent growth of its own, and was growing, at the time I removed it, at a faster rate than the perfect child.”