MORBID ANATOMY. 504 body of the uterus was a fibrous tumor, of the size of a pea, but upon the inner surface nothing peculiar was no- ticed. 1856. Dr. D. II. Storer. 2768. The fundus and body of the womb, considerably enlarged, aud very much elongated by fibrous tumors. Cervix not affected. 1861. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 2769. Portion of a tumor, to show the change of structure that may take place after a long while. The patient was eighty-four years of age, and had had swelling of the abdomen for more than thirty years. There is no appearance of fibrous structure to the naked eye, though it is marked enough microscopically; but it is per- fectly white, very flaccid, though tough, moist in appear- ance, and irregular rather than smooth upon the cut sur- face. Altogether it formed a semi-spherical mass, 6 in. in diameter, and 3 in. in thickness; and the convexity was surrounded by a thick, cretaceous covering (No. 2773) — there being no ossification of the substance of the mass. 1852. Dr. Daniel Huntington, of Rochester, Vt. 2770. A single tumor, developed in the fundus of the organ, very defined, of a regular, rounded form, and measuring on the cut surface about 5 in. in diameter. Structure quite dense, for the most part, but with great numbers of small cavities, in which is a cellular tissue, and which last is very soft and relaxed, and, when recent, so infiltrated as to gn e a gelatiniform appearance. The uterus is quite small; and the expansion over the tumor is well shown. From a woman, set. forty-five years, who had known of the tumor for at least five years. During the last year she was as large as at the sixth month of pregnancy ; and died at last worn out by pains. 1861. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2771. A tumor in the anterior parietes ; single, perfectly globu- • *lar in form, nearly as large as the fist, very dense, and partially ossified. Uterus elongated, very much as in No. 2768. The subject was about seventy years of age. 1857. Dr. Ii. M. Hodges. 2772. A tumor, If in. in diameter, quite defined, surrounded by a cretaceous shell, and has throughout a dead, opaque,