412 MORBID ANATOMY. 2055. Melanosis of the eyeball. From a man, set. thirty-six years. Duration of the dis- ease sixteen months. Pain through the organ, with redness and soreness from the first; vision gradually affected, and none for the last six months. Swelling began six months before ; and when Dr. B. saw him there was a disorganized mass, of the size of a small apple, red, firm, and covered at the lower part by the everted conjunctiva. Aftei lemoval the mass had an ovoid form, was some- what knobbed upon the surface, and measured upon incis- ion, anteio-posteriorly, a trifle over lj£ in., and. transversely 1^ in. The outline of the globe upon this surface was distinct throughout, had somewhat the form of a chestnut, and was completely filled by a uniform, black mass, but not enlarged. Upon one side the sclerotic appeared quite healthy. A trace of the cornea was seen, but not of the lens nor anterior chamber. Just outside of the globe was a large and similar black mass. The remain- der, which constituted a majority of the whole, varied much in color, and consisted partly of a uniform, close, compact white structure, without any trace of discolora- tion, though by far the greater part was more or less dis- colored, and passed almost gradually into the black por- tion. These differently colored portions were distinct, and seemed almost composed of separate lobules. From the posterior extremity of the mass to the globe of the eye the distance was 1^ in.; the optic nerve being nowhere distinctly seen. Di. B. remarked that this was the fifth case of cancer of the eye that he had operated upon ; and of these, three were of the melanotic form. Also, that the subject of the above case was the j^oungest of all of the patients. (Am. Jour, of Med. Sc. Vol. xxi. p. 41.) 1852. Dr. Geo. A. Bethune. 2056. Globe, not enlarged, but filled with a black melanotic mass; with a mass of the same extexmal to it, and nearly an inch in diameter. Sclerotic quite distinct, on section ; and there is a small, and very hard, cretaceous body in place of the lens. 1861. Dr. C. Ellis.