485 MORBID ANATOMY. been suffering from the disease for three years ; her chief symptoms being an intense, paroxysmal, and increasing pain, passing up through the rectum, and as high as the top of the sacrum. Very little hemorrhage ; and no vesi- cal nor uterine sj'mptoms. (Med. Jour. Vol. xlvi. p. 86.) 1862. Mr. Albert Wood, med. student. 2309. Scirrhus of the rectum, from a lad about seventeen years of age. The disease was of eleven months’ duration, and came on with pain in the umbilical region, followed by vom- iting, indigestion, and constipation. Eight months after- ward, and when first seen by Dr. H., there was emaciation, with much pain, and especially on defecation. The pain, however, was never referred to the rectum, but always to the region of the transverse colon. On examination, the intestine felt very irregular, and as hard as a scirrhous breast. A month before the lad’s death, the obstruction gave way, and he had free dejections, but the pain contin- ued. On dissection, the disease was found to commence an inch or less from the anus, and to extend upward about 3 in. ; involving the whole circumference of the intestine, and being deeply ulcerated almost throughout. The intes- tine was very closely adherent to the walls of the pelvis. The bladder was involved ; the ureters nearly obliterated, and higher up greatly distended ; and there were very slight traces of disease upon the peritoneum. The age of the subject in the above case was very re- markable. 1861. Dr. Anson Hooker, of E. Cambridge. 2310. Cast, in plaster, of a cancerous rectum ; colored. From a farmer, sixty-eight years of age, and of robust health. He had been treated for piles for about a year, when, about ten months before death, he came under Dr. T.’s care. The sensation in the rectum he described as of weight, fulness, or distention; and there was frequently a slight discharge of mucus or blood, but without much actual pain until about a month before death, when both the pain and the discharges were considerably increased, with an almost total loss of control of the sphincter. The discharges had been constantly offensive, and toward the