MORBID ANATOMY. 593 woman, who had had incontinence of urine, but no other marked symptoms. 1857. Dr. G. L. Collins, of Providence, R. I. 2765. The uterus perfectly buried in tumors, which vary in size generally from 1 to 3 in. One of the largest is in the cervix, and seems to have originally formed in this unu- sual situation. Another of the largest hung freely into the peritoneal cavity; and a third, 2 in. or more in diameter, projects into the cavity of the fundus, with a small pedicle. The uterine cavity is much dilated, but the parietes of the organ are comparatively thin ; and the blood-vessels are enlaied as usual. The whole mass weighs 3 lbs. From a widow, set. forty-six years, who had had profuse menstruation for years, but without much pain; and no other pelvic symptoms. 1861. Dr. C. G. Putnam. 2766. Several small tumors in the womb, which last is much atrophied ; the most interesting point being the formation of a fibrous tumor, about half as large as an English wal- nut, in or rather below the broad ligament, and quite be- yond the limits of the uterus. 1861. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2767. A large uterine tumor, that was spontaneously dis- charged. The patient was forty-one years of age ; and being then in her ninth pregnancy, had in May, 1855, a considerable em or i'll age. Sept. 24th Dr. S. was called, and found that she had been flowing for a month. A very firm tumor was felt in the right iliac region, but he was not allowed to make an examination. Dec. 23d the child was born, pre- senting by the bieech, with the head exceedingly com- pressed upon one side, as by the tumor, and weighing 6 bs. 1 he placenta, to some extent, was strongly adherent; and, on separating it, the tumor was distinctly felt. Dur- ing the following night and day she had severe after-pains ; ant forty-eight hours after delivery, the tumor, weighing 2 lbs., was thrown off. Recovery rapid. In May, 1857, she was again delivered of a large, healthy child ; but she recovered slowly, and died the fol- owing January from a large intra-thoracic tumor. In the; 38