MORBID ANATOMY. 235 ness, and with a smooth and defined neck; the surface is rough, and overlaps the base. 1864. jDr. J. M. Warren. 1285. Lower portion of the tibia, enlarged and somewhat irreg- ular ; and, having been sawed lengthwise, there is seen in the interior, and just above the articular surface, a pretty well defined cavity, more than an inch in diameter, and filled, in the recent state, with a white, opaque, curdy mat- ter. Cavity of the bone obliterated to some extent. The astragalus is closely anchylosed with both bones of the leg; and the fibula is somewhat enlarged. From the dis- secting-room. The limb looked as if it may have been the seat, formerly, of a chronic ulcer. 1857. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1286. A portion of the lower jaw, showing the effects of chronic ostitis ; including in extent the right canine, and the first molar tooth upon the left side, and probably removed dur- ing life. The disease is situated almost entirely upon the outer surface of the bone, and consists of an enlargement of its substance, and a change of structure; forming a tu- mor equal to 1£ in. in diameter. Upon the inner, and along the under surface, the bone generally looks compact and healthy, though there is some enlargement toward the mouth. On transverse section, the compact wall has for the most part disappeared, and the mass is seen to consist of a pretty hard bone, mixed with the dried remains of a dense, fleshy substance; this last being intimately con- nected with the surrounding soft parts. Rather in front of the left canine, and which, with the adjoining incisor, has been removed, is a cavity of some size in the substance of the bone ; the opening from this having a fistulous ap- pearance before the specimen was dried. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1287. Lower portion of the femur, with the surrounding soft parts ; in spirit. The bone is enlarged, and to some extent consists of little more than a mere shell; being occupied by a cavity that, about in the situation of the condyles, communicates freely with another in the soft parts, and which last extends about 7 in. along the front of the bone.