MORBID ANATOMY. 489 2321-3. Calculi, from the intestine of a horse. The largest is about 3£ in. in diameter, and weighs 2 lbs. 3£ oz. ; form very regular ; rounded, with some flattening, and with one marked facjette. The smallest is between 2 and 3 in. in diameter, weighs 9J oz., is not rounded, and has very marked fa^ettes; having been sawed, the concentrically laminated structure is strongly marked, and for a nucleus there is seen a piece of iron, a few lines in diameter, as it appears upon the cut surface. The third specimen weighs 18£ oz., and is intermediate between the two others in re- gard to size and fa^ettes ; on section, it resembles the sec- ond in structure, and in having a piece of iron for its nu- cleus. In all of the three the color is a pale brownish, with a mixture of gray; the structure of the two that have been sawed is rather coarse than otherwise ; and the lam- inated structure of the largest is perfectly well marked ex- ternally. Dr. James C. White found them to consist mostly of the triple phosphate of ammonia and magnesia; a little phosphate of lime, and a trace of carbonate of lime. There was a considerable amount of silica also mixed mechanically with it, and some little animal matter. (Med. Jour. Vol. lxiii. p. 361.) 1860. Mr. Robert T. Edes, med. student. 2324. A bezoar, of a spherical form, and highly polished upon the surface. Diameter 2f in. A stone seems to form the nucleus ; and around this the layers of diphosphate of lime are arranged in concentric laminae, and with the radiated structure that is peculiar to these concretions. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. The last, and four next specimens were analyzed by Dr. J. C. White. 2325. A second specimen. Cylindrical, with hemispherical terminations. Length, -J2 in. Surface partly covered with a black polish. Nucleus formed of vegetable flbi'e. Composed of the diphosphate of lime; as are the next three. This and the next three specimens were pi*esented to the college many years ago by Dr. J. Nichols, of London. (See urinary calculi, page 533.)