288 MORBID ANATOMY. coarse, ragged, fibro-cellular substance, but without any appearance of cancerous structure. The knee-joint and the femur appear healthy, and the cartilage remains in a pretty entire state. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1488. Metacarpal bone of the index finger, and the adjoining phalanx ; in spirit. The first, sawed longitudinally, shows an enchondromatous deposit in the substance of the bone, just behind the anterior extremity, nearly half an inch in diameter, and rising somewhat above the surface. A sim- ilar but much smaller deposit projects above the dorsal surface of the phalanx, and close to its posterior articu- lating surface. These two bones are otherwise healthy, but upon one of the bones of the middle finger was a similar deposit. 1856. Dr. li. M. Hodges. 1489. A large epithelial, cancerous growth, from about the middle of the tibia. From a man, set. thirty-eight, who entered the hospital April 17th, 1838 (19, 19). About seventeen years previ- ously he had fever; and boiling water was poured upon his legs to produce vesication. Extensive ulceration fol- lowed, and continued till 1837, when the left leg healed. In 1836 the right leg assumed a fungous appearance. In Jan., 1838, the growth was removed, and the bone scraped ; but, on admission, it was larger than ever, very painful, occasionally bleeding, and exceedingly offensive. He had kept his bed for about two years, taken laudanum freely, and was greatly reduced in health. On the removal of the limb, below the knee, he lost a great deal of blood ; and two weeks afterward the femoral artery was tied for sec- ondary hemorrhage. July 14th he left, much improved. The limb having been very fully injected with size and Vermillion, the fungous growth assumed at once, and very nearly, the appearance that it had before the operation ; as of a mass of exuberant granulations, 6 in. in length, 3 or 4 in width, and rising abruptly 2 in. or more above the surrounding surface, which was quite healthy. A section having been made through the limb, the growth was found to consist of a coarse, fibro-cellular structure; the fibres radiating toward the surface, from an opening in the tibia.