436 MORBID ANATOMY. yellowish color, and contained a large number of echi- nococci, detached hooks, and a few concentric corpuscles. The lining membrane was covered with the same parasites ; and presented the usual striated appearance. The lungs, otherwise, were quite healthy. From an old man, who died of disease of the bladder. (Med. Jour. Vol. Lvn. p. 218.) 1857. Dr. C. Ellis. 2157. A portion of thick, false membrane, dissected off from the lung; the result of former pleurisy. No. 1575 was from the same patient. 1868. Dr. 0. Ellis. 2158. Pneumothorax. A portion of the upper back part of the right lower lobe, showing a cavity, about the size of a large nutmeg, and from this a perforation into the pleural cavity, about 2 lines in diameter ; with another small cavity near it, and a small, old tubercular mass. There was another small cav- ity, also, at the apex of the lung ; the whole disease being evidently of long duration, and in a state of arrest. The lung was much compressed ; the cavity of the pleura con- taining nearly a quart of pus, and the whole surface being thickly covered with recent lymph. From a young sailor, who had had cough, and was seen by Dr. B. a week before his death, with much dyspnoea, great prostration and suffering, and a very rapid pulse. The right side of the chest was very prominent, resonant, and without respiratory murmur ; and metallic tinkling had been heard. 1852. Dr. H. I. Boivditch. 2159. Empyema. —The patient, set. twenty-three years, had been sick about five months, and entered the hospital July 4th (237, 162). There was pointing between the ribs, upon the left side, and in two places. On the 5th four pints of pus were drawn off, and on the 22d four more; and on the 17th of August he died from copious hemorrhage into the pleural cavity. The whole left pleural surface was covered with a firm, thick, false membrane, and in many places the costal pleu- ra and parietes were deeply eroded ; the ribs being de- nuded at several points. The lung was tubercular. A portion of the parietes of the chest shows the appear-