HEALTIIY ANATOMY. 132 Physical Sciences (1821), by Prof. John K. Mitchell, of Philadelphia, who, when a young man, happened to see Ake, and sent to the Journal, from Canton, a very full report of what he had observed. The description that is recorded in the Catalogue of the Hunterian Museum, and referred to more or less fully by Geoff. St. Hilaire, and others, was by Mr. Livingstone, Surgeon of the British Factory at Canton; but Mr. L. himself never saw Ake, and the artist who was employed to make the model that was sent to England, only made it after he had seen the individual, and, as he said, had carefully examined him. Mr. L.’s description was sent by Prof. M. to the above Journal not long before he sent his own, and was published in the second volume, p. 148. Ake was sixteen years old, 4 ft. 7 in. in height (Mr. Livingstone sa}rs 4 ft. 10 in.), and rather delicate in appear- ance, though he reported himself healthy. His mother had a tedious labor at the time of his birth, but did well. (Mr. L. saj's that she survived only two days.) His uncle, who, with him, stated that he was a vigorous infant, and that the parasite, as it has been called (and that may be desig- nated as P.), was nearly as large as himself at birth. It consisted of a neck, trunk, and four extremities ; the attach- ment on the part of P. extending to within 2 inches of the pubes, and on the part of A, from about 1J in. below the top of the sternum, to about 1 in. above the navel. Length of P. from neck to heel, 31 in.; neck, 2 in.; from base of scapula to top of sacrum, in.; bod}^ and neck, 12 in.; lower limbs, 19 in.; left foot, 5 in. ; upper extrem- ities, with hands, 18.J in.; penis, when flaccid, 3 in; cir- cumference of penis, 2£ in.; pelvis, 18 in.; body above pelvis, 10 in.; upper part of thigh, 11 in.; of arm, 7 in.; elbow, 6 in.; and middle of fore-arm, 3 in. Perpendicular height of adherent surface, 7£ in., and circumference of same, 17£ in. (In a foot-note to Mr. L.’s description in the Hunterian Catalogue, it is stated that Lieut.-Gen. Wood, on careful measurement, found the trunk and neck to be about 11 in., and the longest limb, 13 in.) Its gen- eral appearance was meagre, and the hands and feet were cold in the warmest weather (the usual temperature of