732 APPENDIX. dal fins; anteriorly, it is triple, and each of the three heads has two eyes. In another, of the same variety, one of the heads has one eye only. In another of the same the central head has two eyes ; one of the others has a ru- dimentary eye, and the third has none. — In another variety the head and body are single, but the tail is double. — One specimen shows a very strong curvature, as was the case with several that were received with the first collection. The different varieties are shown in separate tube phials. 18 Dr. A. Coolidge. 3647. Three photographs of a man, already referred to (No. 909), in whom there is a third lower extremit}7, and the penis is double. Two of them were obtained by Dr. M., in Portugal, are much larger than the one already in the museum, and give a front and back view of the individual. The third, which is smaller than the other two, represents him as seated in a chair. 1869. Dr. David Mack, Jr., Surgeon U. S. N. 3648. A piece of bone, removed from the cranium, by trephine ; and connected with it a broken fragment, nearly as large as the thumb-nail. From a man, set. twenty-seven years, and who entered the hospital Aug. 13th, 1867 (77, 2), in a state of insensi- bility and collapse, with a contusion over the left temple, and a small punctured wound in the centre ; the accident having probably happened during the previous night. On incision, a defined opening was found in the skull, with a discharge of brain. A piece of bone having then been removed by the trephine, there was found, after some examination of the part, the small fractured portion pro- jecting inward, and hinged to the inner surface of the bone. At the time of the operation, and subsequently, there was much hemorrhage, with much discharge of brain, and much motion of the left lower extremity, but none of the right side of the body ; and on the evening of the 15th the man died. — On dissection, an extensive effusion of blood was found into the membranes. 1869. Dr. G. II. Gay. 3649. Cast of the forearm and hand, to show the appearances