171 MORBID ANATOMY. 1020. Comminuted fracture of the olecranon. From a man, set. fifty-five, who received other injuries, and died in forty- eight hours. (Hospital, 131, 50.) Prepared Mr. R. H. Derby, one of the house-pupils. 1867. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 1021. Old, double, transverse fracture of the olecranon; with close fibrous union. The lines of fracture are, respect- ive^, £ in. and 1^ in. from the extremity of the bone ; and at this last the union was so close that it only appeared when the pieces were separated by maceration. The fossa in the humerus is very large. The lower extremity of the fibula was also broken. 1866. Dr. D. W. Cheever. 1022. Thibert’s model. A consolidated fracture of the olecra- non process; the separation of the parts being inconsider- able. The arm, during treatment, was kept in a state of demi-flexion. Dr. Geo. Hayward. 1023. A piece of bone, broken from the olecranon, and fifteen 3Tears afterwards removed from the elbow-joint; in spirit. From a man, set. twenty-three. (Hospital, 87, 50.) When eight years old he injured the elbow severely ; and four or five years afterward noticed something movable in the joint, and which, in a certain position, prevented flex- ion. The elbow was quite natural in appearance, but there was something apparently bony, and about the shape of the inner condyle, between this last and the olecranon ; the condyle being much smaller than the outer one. The loose body was somewhat movable. The following record was made by Dr. B.: t£ An incision, made on the side of the olecranon, between that and the internal condyle, exposed the uneven surface of the loose body, which was removed without difficulty. It was about the size of a civet bean, and in parts quite as thick ; very rough, and almost spiculated on one side, and only unequal on the other, like the side of the olecranon itself, which it doubtless is, inasmuch as the substance is bony, and the surface here and there covered with what is, under the mi- croscope, true cartilage. Elsewhere is found some amor-