221 MORBID ANATOMY. 1219. Tibia, moderately enlarged, cylindrical, and rough exter- nally ; very dense and heavy. Long, and transverse sec- tions show no periosteal deposit; and the cavity to a con- siderable extent is quite obliterated. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1220. Shaft of the tibia, enlarged to. a considerable extent; and the linear appearance upon the surface, so often seen in chronic ostitis, is strongly marked. On a transverse section there is no appearance of periosteal disease ; cav- ity very small. 1856. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1221. Tibia enlarged, dense, and heavy; surface somewhat rough. Articular surfaces healthy. On section, no peri- osteal change; and of the cavity there is hardly a trace. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1222. A fibula, enlarged, and covered with spines and ridges. No appearance of periosteal deposit on transverse section. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1223. Upper third of the tibia, irregularly enlarged, and partic- ularly toward the back part. No periosteal deposit. Cav- ity nearly or quite obliterated. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1224. Bones from a subject supposed to have died of syphilis ; five cervical vertebrae, the clavicles, humerus and ulna, and the long bones of the lower extremities, with a patella. Generally more or less enlarged, misshapen, and rough upon the surface, with a marked growth of new bone from the edges of the bodies of two of the vertebrae. One of the tibiae having been sawn across, the enlargement is seen to be of the bone ; a small portion of which only is com- pact toward the surface. No appearance of periosteal deposit. Cavity occupied by coarse, cancellated structure. 1848. Museum Fund. 1225. Lower third of femur enlarged, etc., by chronic inflam- mation ; not very heavy, but surface rough; cavity oblit- erated, and no appearance of periosteal deposit. Upon the cut surface is a small cavity that contains a loose sequestrum, and that was cut across in the amputation. The synovial surface is rough from caries, as was also that of the tibia and fibula.