454 MORBID ANATOMY. For a more detailed history of this case see Med. Jour. Vol. lxxvi. p. 141. 1867. Dr. William Reed. 2205. A large fibroid tumor in the parietes of the stomach. From a woman, mt. fifty-six years, who died at the hos- pital (217, 176) of disease of the heart and kidneys. There were no symptoms referable to the stomach during the last two weeks that she was there, though she had a little nausea, on entrance, that was attributed to the motion of the carriage, in which she was carried to the hospital. A tumor, however, was felt on the left side, on a line with the crest of the ilium, between that and the umbilicus, and traceable down deep into the iliac region ; nodulated on its surface, and yielding under pressure. On dissection it was found to occupy the large curvature and anterior wall; and it was an exceedingly firm, irregu- larly oval, nodulated tumor. A small portion of the exter- nal surface was of a yellowish-white color, and had an almost cartilaginous appearance. The mucous membrane of the stomach extended over the part, which projected internally. At several points were cavities, caused by a loss of substance. The largest of these, about half an inch in diameter, contained a brownish slough, and extend- ed quite deeply into the tumor. On incision, the growth was found to be very firm, of a whitish color, and presented an indistinct fibrous appearance. Examined microscopi- cally, it proved to be purely fibroid in character. The mucous membrane of the stomach was everywheie of a bright red color, and particularly over the tumor. The other organs were examined and found health}'. In the preparation, a large portion of the stomach is preserved, and the structure of the tumor is shown. (Med. Jour. Vol. ux. p. 83.) 1859. Dr. G. E. Ware. 2206. A fibrous tumor, from the stomach of a tiger. The ani- mal was from a menagerie in this city, that was destroyed by fire. Altogether there were six of these tumors, and they were scattered throughout the body of the organ. They were quite defined, of a nearly circular form, from about three-fourths of an inch to an inch and a half m diameter, and projected very prominently into the cavity of the organ, but not at all externally ; nor were there any