521 MORBID ANATOMY. in diameter. Two of these contain calculi; and the surface of one of these last is for the most part covered with a fibrinous substance that may have resulted from a for- mer effusion of blood. In the pelvis, which is not dilated, is a third calculus, about 2£ in. in length, £ in. in diam- eter, and sending branches into the infundibula. Each of these calculi adhered closely to the mucous surface, though to a small extent, and so caused a dilatation of the organ, bj' preventing the flow of the urine. From a large, fleshy man, tet. fifty-eight years, who died of apoplexy. Intemperate in regard to eating and drinking. Disease of the kidne3rs had not been suspected ; but, after his death, his wife reported that he had long been subject to pain in the loins, and some incontinence of urine. A portion of one of the calculi was found by Dr. Bacon to be composed of the oxide of lime, phosphate of lime, phosphate of magnesia, and organic coloring matter; no uric acid nor urates. 1852. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2464. Calculi in the bladder, kidneys, and ureters. The patient was a man, aged thirty-seven years, who had had urinary symptoms for twelve years, and under- went lithotomy in 1862. In June, 1868, he entered the hospital (138, 48), greatly reduced, and died in a few days. Pain severe; and the urine, which was passed every ten or fifteen minutes, was loaded with pus. The right kidney was greatly enlarged, and the left sacculated. In the pelvis of each was a calculus, about 3 in. in length, and f in. or more in diameter; also in the right ten, and in the left five calculi, about f to f in. in diameter. One small calculus was also found in the left ureter, and two in the right. The calculus in the bladder was oblong, flat, and smooth, 2 J in. in length, and If in. in width. They are all of a yellowish color, and consist, according to Dr. White’s analysis, of about equal parts of oxalate, and phosphate of lime, with a little carb. of lime. In the preparation the organs have been dried, and the calculi are shown in situ. 1868. Dr. B. M. Hodges.