349 MORBID ANATOMY. preserved. The subclavian, where it issues from between the scaleni muscles, is reduced to a mere cord, but regains nearly its natural size at the distance of three-fourths of an inch. The collateral circulation was carried on by the intercostal branches of the int. mammary artery, and the thoracic branches of the thoracico-acromialis; and by a large inosculation between the suprascapular artery, and a branch of the subscapular. A communication was also traced between some small muscular branches of the trans- verse cervical, and the thoracico-acromialis. The dense cellular tissue that invested the axillary artery was not entirely removed when the preparation was made ; but Dr. A. having recently (1866) done this, after thor- oughly softening it, the artery is seen to be continuous, and of full size. It must, then, have been some large branch, only, that was ruptured at the time of the accident. 1849. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1751. A portion of the aorta, showing the coeliac artery com- pletely closed by old fibrine; the clot projecting slightly into the cavity of the vessel, and having a ragged look, as if a “ prolonged thrombus,” as Virchow calls it, may have been broken off. Rather more than an inch above this is a second old clot, £ in. long, and less than two lines in width. This last is attached by one extremit}r, and hangs off into the cavity of the aorta, but no vessel can be seen from which it has protruded. A portion of the femoral, and of one other artery from the left lower extremity is also shown, filled with fibrine. The aorta, generally, was very much diseased, as shown by the specimen. From a lady, set. sixty-eight, who had been much sub- ject to headache for many years ; also to cardiac symp- toms for about three years, though no disease of the heart was found. About three months before her death she was attacked with a very intense pain in the region of the left kidney, and which Dr. M. connected with the disease of the coeliac artery. In the course of a week this had sub- sided ; but the large amount of opium and of chloroform that was required to relieve it caused a great deal of nau- sea and vomiting, that lasted for some time, and that never entirely left her. Two months before her death she began