630 MORBID ANATOMY. was enlarged and tender. During the latter half of De- cember two very considerable hemorrhages. About the 1st of Jan. severe and increasing pains came on, and on the 22d the ovum was expelled. 1852. Dr. E. Leigh. of Townsend. 2930. A fourth specimen. — The membranes are about 1^ in. in diameter, and have the usual opaque look, and stiffened feel, without any appearance of villosities. The foetus and cord are, each, § in. in length; and the umbilical vesicle appeared, as usual in abortions at the sixth week, like a yellowish, opaque, compressed, albuminous mass, about a line in diameter. The woman had had a child four j^ears before, followed b}' ulceration of the os uteri, and, meanwhile, four mis- carriages. Toward the end of May she became pregnant. About the middle of July-flowing came on, and continued until after the middle of November, when the ovum was expelled. 1861. Dr. D. H. Storer. 2931. A fifth specimen, rather smaller than the last, but the same in regard to structure, and the umb. vesicle. Inner surface botryoidal, as it so generally is. Frotus rather shorter than the last, and very nearly ovoid in form. Cord | in., and constricted midway. The woman, having had the usual signs, etc., of preg- nancy, had a slight discharge of blood at the end of the third month. At the end of the fifth, the abdomen had ceased to enlarge, and she had various nervous and other symptoms. At the end of the seventh month, and having been quite well for the last few weeks, she made a sudden effort, and the ovum came away. 1861. Dr. D. H. Storer. 2932. A sixth specimen. — A thick, condensed, pyriform, dis- eased ovum, that was sent to Dr. S. as a polypus that had been expelled. The cavity is distinct, but there is no trace of embryo nor cord. 1862. Dr. D. H. Storer. Cases of blighted ova are sufficiently common here, and show that we ought not always to persist in an attempt to prevent miscarriage. The ovum is diseased, and ought to come away, as a worm-eaten apple drops from the tree. In regard to the diagnostic marks of a blighted and re-