434 MORBID ANATOMY. Entered the hospital May 31st (197, 168), with “lung fever.” The acute symptoms soon subsided, but on the 2d of July she had a paroxysm of cough, with hsemoptisis. The cough, which had not been at all urgent before, in- creased. On the 6th the expectoration became quite pro- fuse, purulent, and tinged with blood ; and so continued for some days, but finally diminished. Great prostration followed, with dyspnoea, and she died on the 20th. There was subacute inflammation of both pleurae. The base of the left lung was compressed ; and in its substance was a cavity about 3 in. in diameter, containing a brown- ish fluid, communicating freely with the bronchi, and trav- ersed by delicate bands; inner surface fiocculent, and formed by the pulmonary tissue. In the ant. inf. portion of the right lower lobe was an abscess about the size of a hen’s egg, and similar to the one upon the other side. There was no appearance of pneumonia about these cavi- ties ; and, excepting the remains of former tubercular dis- ease at each apex, the lungs were otherwise healthy. (Med. Jour. Vol. liii. p. 367.) 1855. Dr. C. Ellis. 2151J. A portion of the lung of an ox, showing the great thick- ening of the interlobular cellular tissue, generally observed in the “ pleuro-pneumonia,” or “ cattle disease,” that was so prevalent in this State a few years ago. (See Report of the Mass. Board of Agriculture for 1860, p. 68.) 1863. Dr. C. Ellis. 2152. A section of one of the lobes of the lung of a dog, minutely injected by Mr. John Arthur, of the University of Edinburgh, and given by him to Dr. J. in 1851. There was a mass of disease larger than a hen’s egg, consisting of an infiltration of an opaque, whitish, crum- bling material, and within this a compact, uniform, earthy structure, so that the greater part of the mass would be described generally as “ ossified.” This last does not appear in the preparation, which is in spirit; but was well shown in the other half, which was dried. The disease is tolerably defined ; and the structure of the lung is other- wise healthy. 1852. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2153. A defined, old, rounded cavity, at the apex of the left