I MORBID ANATOMY. 6G7 The patient was a man, thirty-one years of age, and the disease had been forming between two and three years ; not directly painful, but much pain in the back and side. The tumor extended from the clavicle to the angle of the jaw, anteriorly to the median line, and posteriorly to with- in 2£ in. of the spine. It had a very lobulated feel; elas- tic in part, but over the lower half hard, knobbed and slightly reddened. Upon the other side of the neck was another small tumor. The diseased mass was removed by Dr. C.; a small portion of it being left behind. The carotid art., which passed through it, was tied and divided. On the eighth dajr the patient fell off, and in three days more he died. (Hospital, 111, 32.) 1865. Dr. H. G. Clark. 3041. Cast of the knee, showing externally an encephaloid tu- mor in the popliteal region, and of the size of a large orange. The patient was fifty-five years of age, and the disease of four or five years’ duration. The tumor, when first noticed, was of the size of an acorn; and there had been no increase nor trouble from it until the last four months, from which time it had grown rapidly. It was hard and fixed, and the skin of a reddish color, at the prominent part; with dull pain, and slight aflection of the motion of joint. Amputation by Dr. W. On the ninth day the man began to sink, and in about four weeks more he died with pyemia and pneumonia. (Hospital, 120, 218.) Cast by Messrs. J. Collins Warren, and A. S. Nichols, house- pupils. 1866. Dr. J. M. Warren. 3042. Cast, of the trunk and head of a little girl, taken after death, and showing an immense encephaloid tumor. It arises from the right shoulder, and side of the neck, as high as the ear, extending nearly to the spinal column, down upon the scapula, as low as *the axilla, and in front to about the second rib. Its vertical diameter is about 13 in., and the transverse 9-J in.; the summit rising to about the level of the head, which is pushed to one side by the great mass. Sent to the Museum by Dr. H., at the request of Dr. J. M. Warren, and with the following account of the case.