HEALTHY ANATCXHY. 110 Trunk well formed, but tbe extremities (No. 868) were very deficient. The scapulas are narrow, and imperfectly developed. Each humerus is 2J in. in length, and con- nected by areolar tissue with the hands ; the forearms be- ing wanting. The right hand had three fingers; two fused, and one consisted only of a terminal phalanx. Upon the left was a thumb, a terminal phalanx connected with it, and one finger. The thigh bones are 3 in. long. The legs were strongly flexed upon the thighs, and quite short. Right tibia £ in. long, and, as well as the fibula, very broad, irregularly developed, and apparently quite cartilaginous. The foot had a truncated appearance, with- out toes, but with a well-formed heel; the skeleton con- sisting of a single, irregularly formed cartilage, and one small, second piece. Left tibia, If in. long, and well ossified, but quite broad and misshapen; lower third of fibula only formed, and consisted of a broad and thick cartilage. The foot was If in. long, with valgus, and a great toe, but no other. The tarsus consisted of a single cartilage, a well-developed toe, and by the side of it a sec- ond metatarsal bone, but nothing more. The internal or- gans were well-formed, excepting the heart. (No. 379.) Museum Fund. 867. Cranium from the above. A bone over each auditory meatus may be the malar, misplaced, atrophied, and fused with the temporals ; but, if not, there are no malars. In- termaxillaries very prominent. A trace only of the max- illaries exists, though the nasal processes are quite devel- oped. Orbital cavities quite open inferiorly, and the vo- mer very conspicuous. Palatine bones seem wanting. Large wings of sphenoid bone, and the temporals irregu- larly developed and fused; and of the zygoma there is hardly a trace. Two large cartilages, in the recent state, in the place of the nasal bones, and resembling them in form, though very much larger. Each half of the lower jaw is formed in two pieces ; the division being toward the front, and the malformation a very unusual one. 1859. Dr. N. C. Parker, of Farmington, A. II.