154 MORBID ANATOMY. from above the ear. On dissection, a large fragment of bone was found driven into the brain near the right ear ; this being replaced in the preparation. Some coagulated blood about the membranes ; and pus over the arachnoid. 1865. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 959. Fracture, with wound of the lateral sinus. The patient, a boy, fifteen years of age, had been struck by a heavy plank, and was carried at once (July 18th) to the hospital (132, 126). Scalp wound to the extent of 2 in. behind the right ear, with much hemorrhage; but he had his consciousness. Wound enlarged ; and, a depression being found upon each side of the occipital su- ture, one large triangular piece of bone was removed, and several smaller ones. The opening in the sinus was about £ in. in length, and the hemorrhage from it profuse. On the 29th there was a hemorrhage to the amount of §xij.; and another of gviij.; on the 30th one of §iij. or iv.; on the 31st one of §vj.; and on the 1st of Aug. he died with- out cerebral symptoms. The opening in the skull was of an irregularly triangular form, about 2 in. x 1£ in. The sinus traversed it horizon- tally ; and the opening in it, enlarged by inflammation and sloughing, was 1^ in. in length, contained no clot, and was smooth and perfectly healthy in appearance upon its inner surface. The dura mater, so far as exposed b}^ the frac- ture, was covered with pus and inflammatory deposits, but upon the inner surface it was healthy, though discolored. Some effused blood, however, was found upon the opposite side of the head, between the dura mater and the bone; an abscess in the muscles, at the lower part of the wound, and a fissure in the skull, an inch in length, extending from the seat of the fracture nearly to the foramen mag- num. In the preparation, the fractured bone with the dura mater, and the wounded sinus have been dried. 1867. Dr. 11. M. Uoclges. 960. Portion of the skull, fractured by a slung-shot. From a healthy man, set. twenty-one, who received the in-