Ill HEALTHY ANATOMY. 868. Extremities from the above. 1859. Dr. N. C. Parker, of Farmington, N. H. 869. Head of a malformed pig; in spirit, and very similar to the triocephalus of St. Hilaire. Two fully developed ears come very nearly together, leaving an opening between them, about £ in. in diameter, and through which air could be forced from the oesophagus or trachea. Bather more than an inch above this mouth, as it must be called, is a fleshy mass, also about ^ in. in diameter, and that repre- sents the nose ; and these are the only features. Back of the head well formed; as was the animal otherwise, exter- nally and internally. 1860. For a rhinencephalus in an acephalous subject, see No. 842. 870-3. Casts, in plaster, of the hands and feet of a woman, in ■whom the thumbs and great toes were unusually short, and reached only to the first adjoining phalanges. The index finger is bent to a right angle, and this also was congeni- tal. With this last exception, the above deformities existed in the father and sister of this woman. The second toe of each foot had become inflamed, and one of them was removed by Dr. C. All of the toes, also, are iuclined to the inner side of the feet. 1866. Dr. A. Cooliclge. 874-5. Casts, in plaster, by Dr. L., of the hands of a laborer, who was capable of doing as much work as any man. In the right hand one very broad metacarpal bone seemed to be common to the index and ring fingers, between which was a slnall nipple-like projection in place of a middle finger, and an open space toward which the fingers inclined. In the left there is the same open space, with two very imperfectly developed fingers, that were fused nearly to their extremities, and stiff, but having considerable motion upon a common metacarpal bone ; one of them has a nail. The other fingers, have, each, their own metacarpal bone. Both hands are very broad across the knuckles ; but, other- wise, they are well formed. 1849. Dr. E. Leigh. 876. Upper extremities of a five months’ foetus. One has been