250 MORBID ANATOMY. non fossa. The lower extremity of the other humerus is also shown, and is in very much the same condition. From the dissecting room. See next specimen. 1860. Dr. E. M. Hodges. 1346. A portion of newly formed bone, nearly or quite half an inch in diameter, and that was said, by the student who dissected the subject, to have been lying free in the cavity of the joint in the last case; though more probably it was in the capsule. The articular surface of the humerus, toward the outer condyle, is somewhat irregular, though not at all grooved, but there is no corresponding appear- ance upon the head of the radius. 1860. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1347. A second case. Bones of the elbow-joint, prepared in connection, by Dr. H., with their ligaments. A very con- siderable amount of new bone is thrown out about the artic- ular surfaces ; and there are also several pieces of new bone in the capsular ligament, the largest of which almost equals in bulk the tip of the little finger. The articular surface of the humerus looked well, excepting a somewhat grooved appearance. 1860. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1348. A third specimen. New bone about the articular surfaces, with eburnation of the outer portion of the humerus. Upon the articular surface of the head of the radius, anteriorly, is an appearance as if a considerable piece of the bone may have been broken away, and, though strongly united, may have caused subsequent inflammation. This surface of the radius, and the corresponding one of the humerus, are some- what eburnated. Bones otherwise healthy, as were the wrist and shoulder-joints. From an old subject. 1859. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1349. An entire pelvis, with anchylosis of each sacro-iliac syn- chondrosis. Otherwise quite well. 1847. Dr. J. C. Wapren. 1350. A second pelvis, rough upon the surface, and light in structure. The right ilium and sacrum are fused. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1351. Very remarkable change in the head and neck of the fe- mur ; none of the first remaining, and a small portion only