285 MOKBID ANATOMY. Bone otherwise quite Dr. J. C. Warren. to the extent of more than 4 in healthy. 1847. 1476. The greater portion of the tibia, irregular towards the fibula, from the formation of numerous, small, defined, flat plates of hard bone. Probably a commencing ossification of tiie interosseous ligament; and so of the last specimen. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1477. A small growth of bone, projecting abruptly from the lower third of the tibia, about at the insertion of the inter- osseous ligament. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1478. Section of the sternum, showing a growth of compact new bone upon each surface, and to the extent of nearly an inch ; not periosteal. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 14^9. Portion of the tibia sawed open, and showing a node just below the middle of the bone. In the cancellated structure of one section, that has been preserved in spirit, are seen three or four soft, whitish, crumbling, rounded, tubercular- looking deposits, of the size of small peas ; and confut- ing the plastic deposit of tertiary syphilis, as described by Ricord in the bones, liver, and heart (Clinique Iconograph- ique cle VHop. des Venenens). The lungs, in this case, were perfectly free from tubercles ; and the other organs were healthy, excepting the liver, which was hard, granu- lated, of a dark yellowish or brownish red color, rather dry, and having a peculiar waxy, amyloid translucency. In two of the ribs, however, and in one of the clavicles, there was an opaque, curdy deposit, with caries, or some- thing like it. For the history of the case see No. 1292 P- 226‘ 1852‘ Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 1480. The other half of the above, dried. The “ node ” is seen to be a new formation ; the limits between it and the origi- nal bone being faintly traceable, and the structure rather less compact than that of the old bone. The periosteum, in the recent state, did not seem changed. 1852. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 481. Cranium, diseased; and marked “syphilitic.” Heavy; anc poious upon the surface, from the enlarged arterial foramina. No periosteal deposit. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren.