453 MORBID ANATOMY. from her head, and was like the chirping of a bird, or the sound of the hair-spring of a watch. During the following night the looseness returned, and before the next day she had had five or six discharges that were evidently bloody. Vision began to fail, was soon quite lost, and never re- turned so long as she lived. Pupils completely dilated, but became strongly contracted under the use of opiates. Two dejections only after the 11th. ' Gradually sank, and died on the 17th. The stomach, which has been preserved entire, shows the tumor “ confined to the anterior parietes, of a regular and flattened oval form, and sufficiently well defined. It measured 6J in. in length, 4J in. in width, and 1£ in. in thickness, and did not approach within 3 in. of either ori- fice. The mucous surface over it was the seat of extensive ulcerations ; one of these measured about 4 by 3 in., two others from § to 1 in. in diameter, and there were others that were quite small. The edges of these ulcers were neither thickened, indurated, nor at all reddened : though the mucous membrane in the neighborhood of some of them was, in the recent state, ecchymosed. The substance of the tumor was fully exposed, so as to form the base of the three largest ulcers ; and the appearance was that of a white, flaccid, tough structure, neither fibrous nor fatty, though, on incision, it seemed to be composed of these two last elements. An incision having been made into it through the serous surface, it seemed to consist of a fatty mass, with no more than the usual amount of fibrous tis- sue. With regard to position, it was shown to be between the mucous and the muscular coats. The stomach, which was otherwise quite healthy, weighed, since the examina- tion, 2 lbs. 2J oz., and a healthy one 6jjr oz. No appear- ance of a malignant character in the tumor.” The intestines were full of disorganized blood. Cavity of the abdomen and anterior parietes loaded with fat; and, microscopically, fatty degeneration was shown to have taken place to a great extent in all of the tissues. Dr. R. suggested the possibility of the tumor becoming enucleated, as fibroid tumors of the womb occasionally are, if the patient had survived the hemorrhage.