MORBID ANATOMY. 371 peared, and nothing remained but the blood-vessels and a very dense fibro-cellular tissue. The whole of this last, however, was removed with very great care and skill, and the preparation now consists of the bones of the extremity and of the vessels only. The vessels are placed in their proper relation to each other and to the bones, which last are surrounded by the veins, as in a piece of basket-work; and the large and free communication between the arteries and veins is well shown upon the back of the hand and near the first metacarpal bone. The arteries and veins, gener- ally , are only moderately enlarged ; but, where they” com- municate, they are considerably so, though only for a short distance. Dr. Bigelow imported Brescliet’s Memoir on Aneurisms (Paris, 1834), with reference to this case, and found that it would correspond to his “ Varix arterielle; ” the com- munication with the vein being a complication. 1858. iqi9 mi *, Dr. J. M. Warren. 813. Thibert s model. “ Erectile tumor formed by the radial artery and palmar arch.” From birth. 1847. Dr. G. Hayward. 1814-d. Daguerreotypes of a case of varicose arterial tumor. The patient was a female, thirty-five years of a<re. (Hos- pital, 59, 211.) The tumor was of the size of a lS-o-e hen’s egg directly over the right eye, projecting upon the fore- head and dipping beneath the orbit; surface convoluted, of a brilliant red, pulsating heavily, and filling to its ut- most capacity in about three seconds after the blood had een pressed out of it as from a sponge. It was painless, of about twenty years’ duration, gradually increasing, and ongmally near the hair, from which situation it seemed to gravitated to its present position. Numerous dilated ai teiies radiated from its circumference. At the operation, the arger trunks were secured by ligature, but the tumor continued to fil with blood until nearly the whole periphery d been included in successive ligatures. With a view to is ladical extirpation, it was then rapidly excised within he ligatures, when the exposed surface bled obstinately and even after the use of the actual cautery. The wound healed rapidly ; and the patient was discharged six weeks