MORBID ANATOMY. 268 not yet detached. The acetabulum also is very much dis- eased. A dry preparation. 18G7. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 1417. Os innominatum, showing the result of former hip dis- ease. From a boy about fifteen years of age. The deformity was so great that the body was hung up, and a back view taken of the whole subject for Dr. B.’s collection of Surgi- cal Illustrations. A slight depression only remains in the place of the acetabulum, and the bone here has a singularly reticulated appearance. There is also an opening through the bone, at this part, about half an inch in diameter. Just above and behind the acetabulum the femur was anchylosed to the ilium b}r a very narrow neck, but, having been acci- dentally broken off, it has been lost. The ilium is for the most part very light, though very thick, and upon the inner surface numerous little pits are seen, but not, apparently, the result of caries. The head of the femur was destroyed ; and the lower end of the bone was exceedingly thin, and filled with a clear yellow oil. 1856. Dr. II. J. Bigeloio. 1418. Pelvis, with the upper half of both femora; from a case of former disease and dislocation of both hip-joints; pre- pared by Dr. C. From a middle-aged woman. There was shortening of both extremities, and great prominence of the trochanters, but no suppuration. The appearances of the bones upon both sides are about the same ; neck reduced in length about one half, standing off from the shaft at a right angle, and ending in an irregularty rounded surface rather than a proper head. The acetabulum is quite shallow and irregular; and there is an irregularity upon the outer surface of the ilium just above it, but with no marked ap- pearance as of an attempt at a false joint. 1863. Dr. D. IF. Cheever. 1419. Bony anchylosis of hip-joint, with interstitial atrophy. About 2 in. above the condyles there is a marked projection backward of the femur, with a slight depression upon the anterior face, but without the appearance of an old frac- ture. A graveyard specimen. 1859. Dr. Sewell F. Parclier, E. Boston.