643 MORBID ANATOMY. during the last years of her life. The following is a sum- mary of Prof. D.’s report: — The age of the patient, at the time of her death in 1854, was thirty-six years. In 1838, and being then in the sixth month of her first pregnancy, she was kicked in the right iliac region by a cow ; and to this accident she always re- ferred her troubles. She, however, went her full time, and was confined in June ; suffering afterward habitually from soreness of the side, and weakness in the loins. In Sept., 1840, a secoild child was born. Six weeks be- fore labor she lifted a heavy kettle, swooned, and, on recovery, found a small tumor protruding from the vagina. Health delicate for the next eleven months. In 1841 she aborted at the third month, after a fright. Three days afterward she took cold, and had tenderness and fulness of the abdomen; the right side becoming so sensitive that the bedclothes were oppressive. In 1843 a dead child was born at the full period, and after a severe labor. The vaginal tumor at this time pro- jected 3 or 4 in. beyond the labia, was 1£ to 2 in. in diam- eter, and its attachment was beyond the reach of the finger. Subsequently to this labor the whole tumor sloughed off. Difficulty of passing the urine also followed, and the cathe- ter was used for some months. During this attack a soft, immovable tumor was felt, a little to the right of the linea alba, and almost filling the right side of the abdomen; and from that time the abdomen enlarged pretty rapidly for a year. About four years after the tumor appeared in the abdo- men, another showed itself in the right labium, extending to the nates. This last was soft and elastic, and for a yeai or two it could be returned within the pelvis or abdo- 1 men ; but, subsequently, it enlarged pari'passu with the abdominal tumor, and both fluctuated so distinctly that the case was thought to be one of dropsy. The tumors were tapped or incised eight times, but no fluid was dis- chaiged. The abdominal tumor had produced the most distressing dyspnoea, so that she could scarcely breathe except when on her hands and knees. As the tumor of the hip enlarged, however, the dyspnoea was relieved, as well as