496 MORBID ANATOMY. 2355. A scrotal hernia; laid open; intestinal and omental. • 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 2356. Firm adhesion of the small intestine at the internal ring, from which it had almost escaped ; with perfect strangula- tion in the recent state. From a man, set. sixty-five. On the 18th of May, strangulation of an old hernia came on, without any violent symptoms, and on the third and fourth day the tumor dis- appeared. He, however, gradually got worse, with great uneasiness and occasional retching, and on the 26th he was seen by Dr. C. He was then in a collapsed state, and vomited at long intervals a thin “ stercoraceous ” fluid; abdomen tympanitic, and he had had no free dej. since the attack. On the 28th he died. Dr. C. thought the case remarkable from the fact of the continuance of the strangulation after the apparent reduc- tion and from its slow progress. 1859. Dr. H. G. Clark. 2357-8. Thibert’s models. Strangulated crural hernia and operation. The patient was a female, aged thirty, and the parts had been inflamed for three days. Dr. G. Hayward. 2359. A large crural and intestinal hernia. The testicle is just • below the great mass ; and portions of the inguinal artery and vein are also shown. The pubes has been sawed out, and helps to preserve the relation of the parts. In spirit. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 2360. A portion of the ileum, from a man who had been suc- cessful^ operated on for artificial anus. The patient was fifty-one 3rears of age, of intemperate habits, and had been .ruptured since the year 1844. In Sept., 1853, strangulation occurred, followed by slough- ing ; and from that time the faeces were discharged alto- gether at the groin. In June, 1854, Dr. J. commenced a series of operations upon him, the result of which was an improvement, and finally an entire closure of the open- ing in the intestine, though there was an occasional dis- charge of pus until the last; a small cavity being found, on dissection, in the integument. The hernia was inguinal, and involved the intestine