419 MORBID ANATOMY. sperm whale, as it was picked out from a barrel of teeth. It is 3£ in. in length, about an inch in diameter, and pointed at one extremity. The structure is very compact, with granules upon the external surface ; and upon the cut surface is a convoluted look, as if it were made up of ir- regularly cemented granules. The Dental College, in this city, has a similar formation from the pulp cavity of an elephant’s tooth; and minute granules of free dentine are said by Dr. Thomas B. Hitch- cock to be sometimes found in man. 1862. Dr. Henry A. Martin, of Roxbury. 2088. An adult, bicuspid tooth, upon the fang of which, and toward the point, is a small granule, apparently of enamel. 1S59. Mr. Wm. Nichols, Jr., med. student. 2089. A very considerable bony deposit about the fang of a bicuspid tooth. 1868. Dr. P. Pineo, of Hyannis. 2090. A very large canine tooth, with a considerable portion of the alveolus adherent. 1861. Mr. W. B. Gibson, med. student. Dropsy of the antrum, caused by a tooth in the cavity. (See No. 577.) 2091. A misplaced left lower molar tooth. (Hospital, 130,196.) The patient, a negress, set. forty-one, reported that she had never had any permanent molars upon the left side in the low- ei jaw ; and she thought that she had never had any molars there of the first set. About ten years before entrance a tumor formed in the place of the molars, and five years afterward was removed, but soon returned. During the last six months it had grown more rapidly, and was so painful that she was ready to submit to any operation for relief. On in- spection, a dense, lobulated, and very tender tumor was found, about as large as the thumb, and 1£ in. in length. The mass being removed, the tooth was found beneath it, lying horizontally, and entirely surrounded by a delicate fibious C3rst, in which it lay quite loose. The crown was coveied by a pulpy capsule, and this is^hown in the prep- aiation. The cut surface of the mass above it was white, dense, and fibrous, with some spiculfe of bone. The woman did well, and was discharged in about three weeks. 1868. .Dr. R. M. Hodges.