MORBID ANATOMY. 653 Glandular tumors. (Page 379.) Exostoses. (Page 281-4.) 3007. Cast of the upper part of the body, and showing a very large enchondromatous tumor of the scapula. The patient, a farmer, twenty-six years of age, entered the hospital Dec. 10th, 1863 (111, 186) under the care of Dr. H. J. Bigelow, and remained there long enough for examination. He was a healthy-looking man, and said that the disease began six years before ; that at the end of , four years it was of the size of an orange, and during the last two years had grown much more rapidly. Its antero- posterior, transverse, and vertical diameters were 14 in.; and its circumference at the base 45 in. The form was irregularly rounded; and the hardness almost bony, but with numerous little, hard or elastic projections upon the surface. Skin movable over it, except where inflamed. Skin from the axilla, with the hair upon it, displaced by the growth, and was seen upon the outer and upper part of the tumor. The clavicle was lost beneath the mass ; and upon the arm were two knots that will be again referred to. The case was published by Dr. B. in the Med. Jour. (Vol. lxx. p. 109), with a wood-cut, and in which the patient is represented as standing before' a mir- ror, so that two views of the tumor are shown. In January the man visited the medical schools at New York and Philadelphia. Hemorrhage came on, and he died in eighteen days after he returned home. Dr. B., having been notified of the patient’s death, and that an autopsy could be had, made an arrangement with Dr. Charles M. Carleton, of Norwich, Conn., who had always shown a strong interest in the case, and in whose neigh- borhood the patient lived; and, with his assistance, the tumor was removed, and brought here for examination. The weight of the tumor was 31 lbs.; and in structure it was, to a great extent, as pure an enchondroma as would, perhaps, ever be seen. The lobules were well defined; and the interstices were traversed, as usual, by an abundant fibrous tissue. Where it was firm, or rather dense, the lobules were closely compressed ; but in other parts, and especially at the lower part of the tumor, they