MORBID ANATOMY. 358 Aneurism at the origin of the aorta, and that burst into the right ventricle. (See No. 17015.) 1780. Aneurism at the origin of the aorta. The sac is about 2 in. in diameter ; somewhat atheromatous within, and between it and the pulmonary artery is an opening about half an inch in length, with smooth, rounded edges, and presenting none of the appearances of a recent rupture. From a man, set. forty-eight, who had been subject to dyspnoea on exertion for five or six years ; became at last generally dropsical; and died whilst sitting up to fan him- self. (Med. Jour. Vol. nv. p. 164.) 1856. Dr. C. Ellis. 1781. A portion of the parietes of the chest, with an aneuris- mal sac, showing an extensive destruction of the sternum ; dried. From a woman, who had been subject for the last sixteen years to rheumatism, with dyspnoea and palpitation; and for more than two years to paralysis of the right arm. Nine weeks before death a pulsating tumor appeared in the upper sternal region, and rapidly increased, so as to meas- ure before death in. transversely and 6| vertically. A distressing cough and frequent sense of suffocation were constant symptoms toward the last; and the slightest pres- sure upon the tumor caused severe cough and d}'spnoea. She, however, maintained herself, b}7 work, until the last six weeks ; but for the last two weeks was confined to her bed, and suffered much. On dissection, the tumor extended from just above the line of the second ribs to the lower edge of the larynx upon the right side, and from the anterior extremity of the sec- ond rib upon the left side to be3rond that upon the right. The aorta was dilated immediately above the valves, and the asc. portion and arch formed an immense sac. Pos- teriorly the vessel wras wrinkled and atheromatous ; and, anteriorly, the sac was formed by the eroded sternum and expanded pectoral muscles; the cavity containing much old and recent coagulum. Right subclavian artery flat- tened. Heart perhaps large, but otherwise well. 18o7. Dr. C. Ellis.