311 MORBID ANATOMY. 1567-72. Models of deformed pelves ; and of which the origi- nals are in the Dupuytren Museum, at Paris. 1857. Museum Fund. 1573. Distorted pelvis, from an adult female. Left sacro-iliac synchondrosis anchylosed. Skeleton otherwise sufficiently well, so far as observed. 1856. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1574. Lateral distortion of the pelvis, with partial anchylosis upon each side, between the sacrum and ilium. 1860. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1575. One-half of the thorax, to show the effects of a former and extensive pleurisy ; contraction and deformity of the ribs. These last, midway, are closely approximated and flattened from above downward. 1868. Dr. C. Ellis. 1576. Longitudinal section of the humerus and femur of a little girl, who died from the effects of rickets, at the age of ten and a half years ; in spirit. — When sixteen months old, one elbow enlarged ; and soon afterward she had ophthalmia, which resulted in total blindness. At the age of two and of four years, the ankle and knee joints enlarged ; and from this last period she was confined to her bed; the lower extremities being drawn up upon the abdomen, and the upper extremities distorted. There were occasionally slight spasms lasting through the day ; sometimes intense pain; a gradual loss of muscular power, and during the last month much dyspnoea. Mind quite bright. On dissection, there was found strong lateral curvature of the spine. Shafts of all of the long bones, so far as examined, very slender and thin, and the epiphyses greatly enlaiged ; or, at least, by comparison. Muscles generally in a state of fatty degeneration. One kidney contained some small calculi; but the organs otherwise were suffi- ciently healthy. 1859. Dr. C. D. Homans. 15/7. A femur, flattened laterally, and curved anteriorly. Transverse section midway. 1578. Tibia flattened laterally, and misshapen. lo79. Two tibiae, apparently mates, and somewhat distorted laterally. 1580. Tibia ; inward curvature more than in the two last cases.