133 HEALTHY ANATOMY. both being natural, according to Mr. L.) The limbs, though round and plump at first, became much attenuated toward their extremities. Union face to face ; but A could readily turn P. so as to bring its nates (Mr. L. says either side) into contact with his abdomen. These opposing sur- faces were excoriated, and required the constant interven- tion of a roll of cloth to prevent ulceration. There was but one scapula (Mr. L. says two), and that extended across the back to the left shoulder. The spines of three vertebrae were discoverable in the neck, and they were then lost beneath the scapula. Between this last and the pelvis, the back, which was quite soft, sank deeply in, and no ver- tebrae could be felt. There were the usual number of fingers, but they were very feebly developed. Right foot clubbed (according to Mr. L. they both were), and the left had but three toes. Scapula and humeri so loosely con- nected with the neighboring parts that they could be moved from the pelvis nearly to the top of its neck. All the joints of the upper extremities admitted of a limited mo- tion (Mr. L. says free). The lower extremities, however, were stiff, and the hips probably anchylosed. A. and his uncle said that when he was four or five years old he could move these ; and he could also move the upper extremities. His mother, however, passed a string about them, and over the neck, to protect them from injury ; and, the heels being- brought nearly into contact with the nates, excoriation en- sued, followed by adhesion of the calf of the leg to the back of the thigh, and loss of motion at the knee-joints. About two years before Prof. M. saw him, P.’s left humerus was broken, by a fall from a buffalo, but it had united firmly. The penis, 3 in. in length, as above stated, enlarged dur- ing erection, and the scrotum “ might have contained the testes of a vigorous adult.” No testes, however, were found in it; though there seemed to be one at the left ab- dominal ring, as shown by a tumor there, and the peculiar pain that was caused b}*- pressure upon it. (Mr. L. says that there was no vestige of the testes, and very little scro- tum.) There was a congenital phymosis, but the glans was in a natural condition, and a mucous secretion was