MORBID ANATOMY. 694 Considerable force was required to extract it. Hemorrhage slight. The testicle was completely turned out, and almost denuded ; but was put back, and the wound did well. On the following day there was extensive ecchymosis, and at the end of a week an abscess formed over the wound mid- way ; but the man’s recovery was rapid and complete. (Med. Jour. Vol. lxii. p. 479.) 1860. Dr. II. B. Burnham, Epping, N. II. 3120. An upright round, from the back of a broken chair, upon which a man was pushed down. It entered 1 in. behind the anus, passed through the thyroid foramen, and pro- truded beneath the skin near the pubes ; the extent of pen- etration being about 9 in. The diameter of the stick is §■ in., and from the extremity that entered the body a piece had been slivered off. The patient was carried at once to the hospital (134, 262), and the stick was withdrawn b}^ Dr. II., without any hemorrhage. The accident happened on the 15th of April. On the 17th a piece of cloth was removed, and is shown with the stick. On the 19th large incisions were made in front; the parts beneath being inflamed and sloughy ; and on the 22d he died. — The peritoneum was quite healthy ; but there was erysipelatous cellulitis, and in one lung nu- merous pyemic deposits. (Med. Jour., Aug. 6th, 1868.) 1868. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 3121. A thick, sharp-pointed splinter of wood, 14 in. long, and a slender piece § in. long ; removed in an operation for fistula in ano. The patient was a man, twent3r-eight years old. Three mouths before, a board, upon which he was lying, broke, and sharp pain was instantly felt. Three weeks afterward the part was lanced, and there had been a discharge from that time. No opening was found by Dr. B. into the intestine ; and the patient was soon well. (Hospital, 75, 24.) 1857. * Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 3122. A piece of rough pine stick, 3$ in. long, and nearly £ in. wide at the largest part. From a little boy, seven years old, who complained that he had fallen and hurt his hip. His mother, who was a woman of sufficient intelligence, examined it carefully, but