MORBID ANATOMY. 415 decided to remove tlie bone; which was done at once, and with very little hemorrhage. The form of the bones was somewhat changed by the pressure of the tumor, but they were not diseased. The tumor adhered strongly to the na- sal walls, and was at last deeply imbedded in the sphenoid cells, from which last it was entirely removed. On exam- ination, after removal, it appeared to be a benign, fibroid growth, dense and white, but in some places traversed by vessels, so as to give some appearance of a cavernous structure. Its length was about 3£ in. ; its weight, after having been for some time in spirit, 2 oz.; and in form it was very much lobulated. Dec. 19th he was discharged well. (See the two next specimens.) 1867. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. 2070. Upper jaw, from the above case. 1867. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 2071. Ferrotype of the above patient; presented by himself a few months after the operation, and showing very much less deformity than would have been expected. 1867. Mr. D. W. Brooks. 2072. The upper maxillary bone, removed to get at a tumor in the posterior nares. The patient was a man, thirty-three years of age, and left the hospital, well, in two weeks from the day of the operation (130, 210). 1867. Dr. B. M. Hodges. 2073. Photograph of the above patient, some months after the operation; presented by himself, and showing a very slight deformity. With the aid of artificial teeth, and a palate, he did perfectly well, and his voice was scarcely, if at all, affected. 1869. Mr. John S. Ives. 2074. Photograph of a man who had the left upper maxillary bone sawed through, and depressed in order to get at a polypus. The lip was cut through from the left nostril; the flap dissected back from the maxillary bone, and the section of this last was made just below the floor of the orbit. The two upper maxillaries were then divided upon the median line, without involving the soft palate, the left maxillary was depressed, and the polypus having been torn away from the ethmoid bone, the maxillary was restored