MORBID ANATOMY. 695 found nothing, — no blood and no wound ; and be was not kept from his school or play. Five weeks afterward the stick was felt beneath the skin, just above and parallel to the groin ; the child having complained of soreness there. Dr. H., being consulted, removed the foreign body, and the child did well; but he was as unable as the mother had been to discover the point of entrance. 1859. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 3123. An irregular mass of rock, weighing 2 lbs. 5 J oz. ; diam- eters about 7J in., 4J in., and 2 in. Driven into the front part of the thigh of an Irishman who was blasting rocks ; and so buried in the flesh as not to be seen. Dr. C. en- larged the opening and removed the stone. Bleeding very slight, and pain not very great; no collapse. 1861. Dr. Benj. E. Cotting, of Roxbury. 3124. Portions of several needles that were removed from the calf of the leg of a hysterical girl; some before, and others after her entrance into the hospital (95, 252). There were points upon all of them ; and they were undoubtedly intro- duced by the patient herself. 1868. Dr. II. G. Clark. 3125. A musket-ball, and probably a round one, removed suc- cessfully from the frontal sinus, June 26th, 1863, by Dr. H., when he had charge of the St. James Hospital, in New Orleans. From a soldier, who was wounded in an assault on Port . Hudson on the 14th. There was an opening, large enough to admit a director, over the eyebrow, and a scar near its outer extremity. A small portion of bone is imbedded in the ball. 1867. Dr. J. Homans. Rifle, or musket balls, that were collected by Dr. B., who served in the army during the greater part of the Civil War. 1863. Dr. Henry Bryant. 3126. 1. A shapeless mass of lead, from the cavity of the hip- joint, after death. The ball struck the middle of the thigh upon its outer face, split the shaft of the femur throughout, and then apparently followed up the bone, which was entirely comminuted for 6 in. below the head. Both tro- chanters were broken off, and the head and neck split into