102 HEALTHY ANATOMY. seventh and eighth months. It is flattened, somewhat like a Carib’s, but there is no bone particularly malformed, ex- cepting the posterior portion of the occiput, which, upon the median line, is very deeply and broadly fissured poste- riorly or superiorly, and also, though less broadly, ante- riorly or interiorly. The parietal and frontal are somewhat deficient, as in hydrocephalus. 1869. 850. Portion of the spine, showing the condition of the bones in spina bifida ; open from the tenth dorsal vertebra, down- ward. Laminae of the vertebrae fully developed, as usual. Specimen sent to Dr. B. Labour, at seven months. Breech presented. Child, a female, and still-born. Quantity of liquor amnii profuse. On dissection, a little serum was found beneath the membranes ; and the nerves were spread out upon, and intimately connected with, the posterior parietes of the sac. 1852. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 851. A second specimen ; deficiency from the eighth or ninth dorsal vertebra to the sacrum. From a hydrocephalic foetus, of which the cranium is preserved. See No. 1890. — The malformation is, as in the above case, where it is most usually found. 1848. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 852. A large pendulous tumor, that was successfully removed, • in a case of spina bifida. “The child was born on the 4th of January, at the full period, well developed, and well formed externally, except- ing the tumor and a slight varus of one foot. The tumor hung, like a pendulous polypus, from over the vertebral column, and about on a line ■with the crest of the ilia. It had a peduncle, which was about a foot in length, and about as large as the little finger, but enlarging somewhat just before it joined the body of the tumor. This last was nearly the size of two fists, of a rounded form, but taper- ing toward the peduncle, fleshy to the feel, and fluctuating, but not tense ; the surface had the smooth, shining appear- ance, and there was the absence of cutis, that is seen in spina bifida. Upon the peduncle the cutis was well developed, and it terminated abruptly where the body of