650 MORBID ANATOMY. Disease of eight years’ duration ; for the first five about the size of a chestnut, and afterward increased slowly. On admission into the hospital (73, 212) it seemed to arise abruptly just below the ham, and was there about the size of a foetal head ; extending downward, and being gradu- ally lost upon the back of the leg. Severe pain in the leg during the last week, and especially about the tumor, which was tender and fluctuating. Foot cool and numb. Dr. Bigelow punctured the fluctuating portion, which discharged a few ounces of bloody serum, and then removed the tu- mor, which was fibrous. The patient did well, though with diminished muscular power in the foot. 1862. Museum Fund. 2997. A neuromatous tumor from the spermatic cord; of a regular form, about as large as the top of the thumb, and fibrous in structure. Situated about half way between the testicle and ring. Loose, but not ver}’- movable. From a gentleman, about twenty years of age. Disease of about two years’ duration, and without much if any pain. Ether not used in the operation. As soon as the tumor was removed the patient was instantly seized with intense pain in the region of the kidney of the same side. The pain, howrever, subsided, without any particular pain in the wound itself, and the wound healed well. At the end of twro years there had been no return of the disease. The diagnosis was based upon the severe sympathetic pain that followed the operation. 1862. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. Neuromatous tumors. (No. 1909.) Fibrous tumors in the stomach. (Page 452-4.) Nasal polypi. (Page 413-14.) 2998. A tumor removed from the jaw of a dog, of an OAral form, and 3 in. in length. On incision, a number of cavities are seen, lined by a pale, smooth membrane, and from J in. to 1 in! in diameter; also large spiculse of bone projecting into its substance. Intervening tissue firm and fibrous. Microscopically fibrous, with cells. No appearance of cancer. The disease had been removed once before. 1860. Dr. J. C. Warren.