MORBID ANATOMY. 330 charged well in about six weeks. Casts taken by Mr. Thomas H. Gage, one of the house-pupils. 1852. Dr. S. D. Townsend. 1672. A quantity of fibrinous substance, in irregular masses, from a synovial cyst behind the knee. From a man, tet. thirty.. Three years before he entered the hospital (79, 226) ; the knee was inflamed for a time. Two months before entrance it got worse again, and a red and tender spot appeared over the inside of the tibia, and 3 in. below the joint. On pressure there, a fluid re- treated as if into a cavity behind; and, on making an opening, a clear, synovial fluid was discharged, and there were pressed up, apparently from behind the external head of the gastrocnemius muscle, about a pint of a buff-colored, feebly organized lymph. Inflammation and suppuration of the joint followed ; five weeks afterward the thigh was amputated, and the patient did well. In the upper back part of the tibia was a small excava- tion, connected with the original cyst; and at that part this last was supposed to have communicated with the cavity of the joint. 1859. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 1673. A cyst, that contained a large quantity of “ melon-seed bodies,” and that was removed by Dr. Bigelow, from over the shoulder. From a man, ret. thirty. About a year before he entered the hospital (83, 241), the tumor appeared; and, when seen, was as large as a cocoa-nut, soft, rounded, quite fluctuating, and with little or no pain. About two ounces of fluid having been drawn off, the movement of the bodies within was felt; and, on incision, about § x. of them were removed. The finger was passed under the deltoid, and about the head of the bone. Cavity lined by a light- colored, serous-looking membrane, with bands in the pari- etes of the cyst; soft, velvety red masses adhering and covering the outer surface of the bone and capsule, whilst the smoother parts were lined by flakes of recent false membrane. The cyst was dissected out, and the patient was dis- charged well in three weeks and a half. The loose bodies,