736 appendix. Bancroft, of Chelsea. About three months after the acci- dent Dr. Gay saw the patient, and found the thigh flexed, the knee flexed, abducted and everted, and the limb lengthened at least 2 in. The great trochanter was de- pressed, with a hollowing in that region ; and there was a visible roundness between the perineum and the small trochanter, with tension of the muscles of the inner and upper part of the thigh. The reduction was effected with much difficulty , the knee springing up a little, on pressure downwards, after the operation, and the limb being length- ened about half an inch. After the operation the bone was not kept in place ; and a few weeks afterward the man died with a large abscess upon the back of the hip and thigh. The parts having been removed, entire, were brought to Dr. B. for examination. The head of the femur lay behind the acetabulum, and upon the pyriformis muscle. The obturator int. was lacerated, and had about disappeared. When the head of the bone was placed in the thyroid fora- men, it was beneath some of the fibres of the obturator ext., and also beneath the pectineus. The inner band of the Y ligament remained, with a small portion of the external band, and was very much thickened ; and, other- wise, the whole capsular ligament was torn through, so that only shreds of it were to be seen. The ligamentum teres had disappeared; the whole inner surface of the acetabulum was more or less abraded, and the lower mar- gin was in a great measure destroyed. One third or more of the head of the femur is also destroyed as by caries, and the remainder of the articular surface is smooth, but entirely denuded of cartilage. The indications of an attempt to form a new socket are very marked ; there being a very thick mass of fibrous tissue, with some ossific deposit along most of the margin of the thyroid foramen, toward the rami of the pubes and ischium, and some rough ossific deposit upon the body of this last, with more or less of the same elsewhere. There is no deposit of new bone, however, upon the head or neck of the femur. Upon the dorsum of the ilium, and where the head rested, the