MORBID ANATOjNIY. 526 matory product; a very striking appearance being a pretty uniform brownish and greenish discoloration of the mu- cous surface, as occasionally seen in the intestines. The muscular fasciculi were not visibly enlarged; and the ureters were not dilated. In the substance of the fundus and body of the uterus and on the left side, is a defined, fibrous tumor, about four or five inches in diameter; and in the left side of the neck a second, of an oval form, about a third as large; the uterus being apparently pushed to- wards the right side. The smallest of these tumors, which is preserved with the bladder, is quite dense, and pos- sibly may have occasioned the distention of the bladder. (Med. Jour. Vol. lxiv. p. 251). 1861. Dr. C. II. Walker, of Chelsea. 2486. Mould in plaster of the interior of the bladder, and of two hernial protrusions of the mucous membrane. The largest diameter of one of these last is about 3^ inches, and the orifice or neck about one inch. The other is very much smaller. 1859. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2487. Sacculated bladder.— From a gentleman, mt. sixty-three • years, who, for the last twenty years, had had frequent and difficult micturition, with pain and uneasiness in the lower part of the abdomen. Symptoms much increased toward the last, but he finally died of typhoid fever. The organ filled the wdiole pelvis, extended as high as the umbilicus, and contained about 2£ quarts of urine. The proper bladder was very much enlarged, thickened, and the muscular fibres strongly developed. At the fundus and toward the left side was an orifice about 1£ in. in diameter, and leading to a sac that was considerably larger than the bladder itself. This sac, which contained the greater part of the urine, was quite thick, and the muscular coat well marked, showing that it was not a mere hernia of the mucuous membrane. The prostate gland was much enlarged, chiefly in the centre, with a band from side to side, as usually seen. The ureters and pelvis were dilated, but the kidneys were healthy. (Med. Jour. Vol. lvi. p. 343.) 1857. Dr. C. D. Homans. 2488. A second specimen. — The organ is about as large as the • foetal head, the walls half an inch thick, and the muscular