691 MOEBID ANATOMY. On his admission into the hospital (144, 6), he stated that fom months befoie, whilst standing near a circular saw, a piece of wood flew against his face, inflicted a wound an inch or two in length, and then, as he supposed, fell to the ground. The wound soon very nearly healed ; but an abscess formed behind the ear and discharged ; and there was once a discharge of pus from the meatus. On admis- sion, the cheek was a little thickened, and the foreign body was indistinctly felt. Pain chiefly in the mouth, with a dischaige into it, and a sinus in the cheek and behind the ear. . On the following day the piece of wood was removed, and in a few daj^s he left the hospital quite relieved. During the operation there was a discharge of blood from the ear, and also from the sinus behind it. 1869. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 3116. An iron hay-hook, by which a little girl was transfixed. It was purchased of the family by Dr. Stimson, who was called to the child at the time of the accident, and who removed the hook. The case was attended by Dr. J. P. Maynard, of Ded- ham, and fully reported by him in the Med. Jour. (Vol. lvii. p. 29), with a figure. — The child, eleven years of age, was sliding down a hay-mow, May 9th, 1857, when she fell upon the hook, the point of which passed through the perineum and bladder, and made an external wound, f in. in width upon the left side of the umbilicus. The hook measures from the point to the extremity of the barb, 54 in.; transversely at the barb, nearly 2 in.; and it was supposed to have entered the body to the extent of 11 in. Di. M. saw the child just after the withdrawal, and found her in a state of collapse ; but in the night she began to icdl\. Uigent vomiting protruded a portion of omentum, which was returned with difficulty ; and, the opening being closed, it did not again escape. For a time the urine passed altogether through the wounded bladder, and with it what appeared to be fcecal matter from the small intes- tine ; but this gradually diminished. Small sloughs of cel- lulai tissue, also, for a time came away. On the fifth day violent peritonitis ensued, but this soon subsided ; and on the twentieth day there was severe pain. On the 11th of