MORBID ANATOMY. 601 pool of blood, and immediately after falling from a bed upon which she had been standing; there being no certain evidence that she struck anything as she fell, though the post of a crib was suspected. All efforts to arrest the bleeding were of no avail, and she died in about three- quarters of an hour. The above is only one of several cases that have been reported to the Soc. for Med. Improvement, of violent hemorrhage in case of wounds of the external genital organs during pregnancy. 1851. Dr. Z. B. Adams, of Framingham. 2792. A large and continuous portion of “ epithelium,” dis- charged from the vagina. The patient, who had been under the care of Dr. J. T. G-. Nichols, of Cambridge, was a servant girl, set. twenty-six years, who had had a moder- ate leucorrhoeal discharge for some time ; and profuse men- struation, though regular, and with very little pain. The membrane was thrown off toward the close of a menstrual period ; and there had been similar discharges previously. Dr. J. Wyman. 2793. Bodies discharged from the vagina, and that look very much, in regard to form, as if they might be casts of the cavity of the fundus and body of an enlarged uterus. They are about 2J to 3 in. in length, 1£ in. in width, and from £ to £ in’, in thickness. One extremity is smoothly and regularly rounded, and the other is ragged. The sur- faces also are nearly regular, and to the feel they are fleshy. In structure they are foliated like packages of thin membranes, closely compressed; this being well shown on section of one of the specimens. Microscopi- call), Dr. B. S. Shaw found them “composed of epithe- lium, such as is found lining the vagina, namely, large nucleated scales.” The patient was a pallid, fleshy, bloated-looking'woman, about forty-four years of age, and subject to a great variety of distressing complaints. Married a few years, but had never had sexual connexion on account of a contracted state of the vagina. Some time after her marriage she was treated by an empiric for about eighteen months; used