290 MORBID ANATOMY. ing of the part, though no marked irregularity was seen in the hone, on dissection ; and on the 20th of July she died. 1859. Dr. Benj. Cushing, of Dorchester. 1493. Cancerous disease of the femur, with fracture of the bone ; commencing just above the condyles, and being most advanced about 5J in. above the joint. Periosteal deposit very abundant, and upon the surface very irregu- lar ; structure coarse. Fractured extremities irregular, and generally rough ; but at one part, and where the bone probably finally broke, the appearance is like that of a recent fracture. To a considerable extent the parietes of the bone are quite gone; and in their place is a small sequestrum. Internal cavity of the upper fragment filled with an amorphous earthy deposit to the extent of about an inch. From a man set. forty-three years, who entered the hospital Oct. 29th (141, 242). Had been in the U. S. Navy, and was quite healthy, until about fifteen months ago, when, in S. America, he had intermittent fever, and about the same time began to have a pain beneath the right patella, shooting down the leg. The pain he attributed to passing shot on board the vessel. Last July he arrived in New York, and whilst he was in the Brooklyn Hospital there was discovered a very considerable swelling below the lower ribs upon the left side ; and this he still has, though it is very much diminished. There had also been an occasional pain there since the first of his sickness, on taking cold. The thigh was broken when he entered the hospital; but he knew nothing of the accident, and said that he had walked up-stairs only a week before. There was free motion between the fragments ; and at the seat of disease the limb was 2£ in. larger than the other; there having been swelling for the last few weeks. There was, also, much pain there on motion, but there never had been any at any other time. Leg oedematous. Health much impaired; and he had done no work since the first of his sickness. Nov. 6th the thigh was amputated about 104- in. above the joint; and the wound is now (Dec. 7th) doing well. In the recent state there was a whitish and not very soft,