279 MORBID ANATOMY. these last were therefore removed, and all of the first; an effort being made to leave behind all the periosteum possi- ble. Oct. 6th the wound had healed, the foot had regained its shape, and differed only from its fellow in length and the want of prominence at the heel. The patient could raise and hold it out himself, and wore only a small tin splint, with a foot-piece for support. Oct. 13th he began to walk; and, though the foot was considerably shortened, it furnished a remarkably firm and hard-padded stump, promising advantages over an artificial substitute. Gen- eral health and flesh entirely restored. At the end of six months these patients were both doing quite well; the man doing full work as a ship-carpenter, and the boy playing about as freely as any one, though limp- ing somewhat. 1865. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1449-50. Great deformity from an old injury. Casts of the foot, before and after operation. The patient, a boy, set. nine years, entered the hospital June 11th, 1867 (132, 96). When two years old he wounded the foot; abscesses followed, and in about five months bone was removed. For nine months the wound did not heal, and the foot did not grow. Ankle had always required support; and for the last two years the foot had been turning out, so that, on entrance, the boy walked upon the inside of the foot and end of the tibia. Foot much smaller than its mate. On the 12th about 1^ in. of the tibia were removed, and about £ in. of the fibula. No liga- tures required. Splints were applied, and subsequently a dextrine bandage. Occasional discharge of small pieces of bone; but on the 30th of Sept, the boy was discharged well. Nov. 30th, he reported at the hospital. Could walk quite fast and without support, but with a slight limp. Ankle quite healed, and much smaller than when discharged. 1867. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1451. Bones removed from the above case. 1868. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1452. The whole astragalus removed, with the two malleoli and a thin slice of bone from the tibia.