MORBID ANATOMY. 605 being thickened and dense, but nowhere ulcerated. The animal was-expected to calve in a few weeks ; and, though the disease was very extensive, and a portion of it was left, when the mass was removed, the animal did well. Dr. B. S. Shaw found the nodules to be “ composed of large epithelial scales, such as are found in epithelial dis- ease of the human lip.” 1867. Dr. G. C. Tower, of S. Weymouth. 2813. A large, unilocular, simple cyst, removed from the breast of a lady sixty-two years of age. It began three years before as a small, painless tumor, and at the end of two years was as large as a goose-egg. From that time it in- creased more rapidly; and particularly the last three weeks, when the summit became discolored. It appeared as a large, globular, fluctuating tumor, and occupied the whole breast; the skin upon the summit thin, tense, shin- ing, and of a greenish color; the nipple pushed to the outer side, and the whole mass perfectly free. It was exceedingly troublesome by its bulk and weight; and the patient did quite well after the removal. The whole mass weighed lbs.; and the cyst contained H pints of a thin, bloody fluid, with shreds of dirty, soft coagula. There were also, apparently, some adherent, film coagula; and some looser, tuft-like masses, from which floated loose shreds of tissue. Otherwise the inner sui face of the cysts was smooth and shining. Dr. G. explained the rapid growth toward the last, and the discoloration by hemorrhage into the cyst. 1863. Dr. T. II. Gage, of Worcester. 2814. A tumor, of an oval form, about the size of a fist, and quite defined, though no proper cyst is generally to be seen. The cut surface, which is very remarkable in appear- ance, might perhaps be described as coarsely and loosely foliated, and as suggesting the idea of a section of the central portion of a cabbage. There seem, also, to be two small tumors, beside the large one. Near the nipple the milk-tubes are seen, somewhat distended. 1847. Dr. J. G. Warren. 2815. Glandular hypertrophy. — From a healthy married lady,