270 MORBID ANATOMY. 1423. Caries of the articular surface of the tibia. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1424. Thibert’s model. Chronic inflammation of the knee-joint of many years’duration. 1847. Dr. G. Hayward. 1425. Disorganization of the knee-joint; in spirit. No remains • of cartilage. Bones quite denuded, and in some parts eburnated ; in others more or less rough, and covered with a soft, shreddy connective tissue. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1426. Disease of the knee-joint. — From a man thirty-four years of age. (Hospital, 114, 86.) Sprained his knee twenty- eight years before, and it was not until two years after- ward that he could get about with a crutch. In four years abscesses formed ; but these healed, and he was able to walk six miles to his work. In Dec., 1863, there was severe pain, and in March an abscess formed that continued to discharge. In August the pain was still very severe, and the limb was amputated. In Sept, two profuse hemor- rhages occurred, and the femoral artery was tied. Oct. 26th he died of hospital gangrene. On dissection, metastatic abscesses were found in the lungs, with very severe inflammation of the throat, phle- bitis, and a large abscess in the thigh. The knee-joint, when removed, showed fleshy anchylosis, with permanent flexion ; the patella being connected with the inferior surface of the outer condyle ol the icmiu. The bones having been macerated, there is seen to be a great enlargement of the inner condyle of the femui, with ii- regularity and acute caries of the inner articulai suiface, and of the corresponding portion of the head of the tibia. Upon the very back part of the outer condyle is a smooth surface, and a corresponding one upon the outer head of the tibia, showing where the two were connected; this last being to a considerable extent absorbed. 1864. Dr. li. M. Hodges. 1427. Lower portion of the femur, from a case of amputation at the knee-joint. From a man, ret, thirty years, who for several years had been subject'to hemorrhages, but was otherwise healthy.