HEALTHY ANATOMY. 101 The foetus was born at seven and one-half months, and lived but a short time. Sent to Ur. F. by his student, Mr. C. A. Shurtleff. The cast was colored by Mr. Clarence J. Blake. (Med. Jour, lxxviii. p. 434.) See next specimen. 1862. Museum Fund. 847. Cranium from the above foetus. It is sufficiently capa- cious, but rather flattened, and the bones are not fully'- developed. The opening in the occiput is about large enough to allow the thumb to pass. 1862. Dr. T. E. Francis, of Brookline. 848. Cranium of a foetus that most remarkably resembled the above, and that, by a singular coincidence, was also born in the practice of Dr. F. The tumor formed b}r the mem- branes, over the upper part of the occiput, was nearly as large as the top of the finger; and, having been lacerated, a probe passed readily into the cranial cavity ; the brain not being involved. From the very low and retreating forehead, the cranium somewhat resembles that of the Caribs. Lower edge of the opening in the occiput thick and rounded ; and the occipital foramen is also enlarged by a deficiency in the occiput upon the median line. The kidneys, in this case, also, were so greatly enlarged as to be distinctly felt before the abdomen was opened; one weighed 5^ oz., the other oz., and the measurements ' were in proportion. Great numbers of cysts, throughout, and about the size of mustard-seed. Dr. Ellis found, microscopically, “ healthy tubuli; tubuli of which the con- tents were granular, and dilated tubuli containing some granular matter. The walls of the cysts were fibrous, and the contents perhaps a little granular.” The pelvis and infundibula were small, but perfectly well marked ; and one of the ureters was easily inflated to near the bladder, where it was cut off. The bladder would not have held more than three or four drops of fluid. The foetus was quite plump, and measured 15^ in. ; im- perfect varus. Sex, female. (Med. Jour, lxxii. 82.) 1^65. Dr% T. E. Francis. 849. Cranium of a foetus that must have been born between the