573 MORBID ANATOMY. gard, had swelling of the abdomen, and who was suspected to have had some operation done, or taken some medicine, ■with a view to abortion; there being nothing, however, on dissection, to show pregnancy. The latency of the peritoni- tis was most remarkable ; the girl having driven out frequent- ly, and even, as Dr. K. thinks, danced through the evening at a party, a week before her death, and walked half a mile on the last day. At 9 p.m. she went to bed as usual, was restless and veiy thirsty in the night, and complained of feeling sick. In the morning she -was found uncon- scious, and soon died. 1868. Dr. J. M. Rice, of Worcester. 2706. One, large, unilocular cyst; and without a trace of a * second. — From a woman, set. thirty-five years; married about eight years. Abdomen enlarged much before that time ; and with much increase the last two months. One child. Kept about until a week before death. The sac contained nearly two and a half pailfuls, of a thin fluid, deeply colored with blood ; and with a great quantity of soft, old lymph. Parietes generally thick and dense. Inner surface opaque, rugous,..and had almost a cutaneous look, though no true skin was seen. Exten- sive old, peritoneal adhesions. Left ovary well. 1861. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2707. An ovary about the size of a small hen’s egg, and much resembling a figure in Mr. Paget’s work on tumors. There are three cysts in juxtaposition, and two of them are just beginning to show the proliferous tendency. Smaller cysts are also seen in other parts of the organ. 1861. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2708. Multilocular cyst, about the size of a goose-egg. The other ovary was similarly diseased, except that one of the cysts was as large or larger than the fist. I rom a woman, mt. sixty-nine years, who was attended eighteen years ago by Dr. Wm. J. Walker, for ovarian dis- ease. She had had a tumor from that time; and, during the attendance of Dr. S., it was about the size of an or- ange. The arrest of the growth of the tumor is an inter- esting practical fact. 1862. Dr. D. H. Storer. Encysted disease of both ovaries. (See No. 2772.)