MORBID ANATOMY. 247 months; but, in the spring of 1866 it failed, and in Jan., 1867, when he entered the hospital (129, 144), it was very much impaired. The knee was anchylosed, and slightly flexed, with several openings, and a discharge of foetid pus. The limb was removed by Dr. B., and in three weeks he was discharged well. 1868. Dr. II. J. Bigeloiu. 1325. Cast, showing the external appearances in the above case before amputation. 1868. 1326. A portion of fibula, 6 in. in length, light and earthy, with fusiform enlargement. A great part of the calibre has been destroyed, and there remains in its place a cavity from which a sequestrum had undoubtedly been discharged ; a small piece of dead bone being still adherent, though the inner surface is generally smooth. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1327. Lower half of the femur, of which the cavity is hollowed out, and the inner surface smoothed as if it must have con- tained a sequestrum ; with a large opening upon the ante- rior surface. The upper portion of the specimen is en- larged, very rough as from a new deposit, and terminates in a short and very irregular edge, but without any appear- ance of fracture. In structure it is extremely light. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1328. A portion of the shaft of a long bone, and probably the femur. Somewhat curved, much flattened, and altogether small and atrophied. The parietes are very thin, and leave a free cavity within, that terminates in a marked cul- de-sac, and is bounded in part by the internal, light, retic- ulated tissue of the bone. The cavity looks like one that had contained a sequestrum, though there is no appear- ance of inflammation of the bone. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1329. Almost the entire length of the femur, from below up- waid. The canal opens midway, and above this the bone gi adually becomes narrower, and at last tapers almost to a point; the edges being smooth. Very little enlargement, or roughness of the surface. Structure light; and the central canal is smooth, and hollowed out, as if it had con- tained a sequestrum. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren.