483 MOKBID ANATOMY. seven years, and bad bad diarrhoea, with constant pain in the abdomen for two years. 1861. Dr. C. Ellis. 2303. A portion of small intestine, thickened by encepbaloid * infiltration. Many portions of this intestine were simi- larly affected; and particularly the duodenum at its origin. Also the caecum. From a woman, set. twenty-three years, who bad occa- sionally bad difficulty of digestion for some years; and constantly the last six or seven months. Pain, with sense of fulness in epigastrium, constant. No vomiting until Quite late in the disease. (Med. Jour. Vol. lxvi. p. 233.) 1862- Dr. C. Ellis. 2304. Disorganization of the caecum, commencing at the valve, and affecting the whole circumference, to the extent of 2 in. It had a foul and very malignant look, though there were none of the usual appearances of cancer. From a lady, about fifty years of age, and who had been sick about eight months. A silver-coated, and unmistaka- bly assafoetida pill that had been taken about six weeks before, was found at the seat of the disease. 1850. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2305. A portion of the arch of the colon, and of the sigmoid flexure, firmly adherent by encephaioid disease, and°com- municating freely with each other. There was, also, the same disease in the liver. From a gentleman, jet. sixty-seven years, who was at- tacked about a year before his death with pain in the abdo- men, followed by vomiting and ‘emaciation ; and a tumor m the left iliac region. He improved afterward so as to attend to his duties in the Legislature ; but died at last exhausted by his disease. (Med. Jour. Vol. nxv. p. 271.) 186L Dr. C. Ellis. 2306. Cancer of the large intestine. At the junction of the sig- moid flexure and the rectum the canal was closely constricted by a c‘rcular g1-owth, which involves from 1 to 2 in. of the wall, the thickness of which is increased to a quarter of an inch. I he mucous surface is red, but apparently smooth. Hie submucous cellular coat was thickened, firm, and of a whitish color. Muscular coat thickened and striated for