735 APPENDIX. nected with the shaft just above the small trochanter, by fibrous bands, ^ in. or more in length. Specimen dried. From an old man, seventy-five years of age, who fell down two steps on the 9th of Nov., 1858. On the follow- ing Christmas he could go from one room to another; and he was afterwards able to walk an eighth of a mile, with the aid of two canes, and until he lost his eyesight. Limb shortened about 2£ in. Death occurred in May, 1869. 1870. Dr. E. D. Miller, of Dorchester. 3652. A patella, fractured transversely, and very closely united by fibrous fissue. —From a gentleman, fifty-three years of age. When nine years old he was thrown from a wagon, and struck his patella upon a stone with great violence. The knee was always perfectly stiff, and appeared, after death, to be completely anchylosed. 1870. Dr. William Ingalls. 3653. Nearly one-half of the outer portion of the right astraga- lus, broken off vertically, and removed. From a man, thirty years of age, who was thrown from a wagon in Dec., 1857. When Dr. G. saw him, there were pain and swelling about the ankle, with slight crepitus. The foot was bent forcibly inwards, as in varus, and the toes pointed downwards ; depression over the dorsum of the foot; and over the external malleolus an opening of the size of a pea, from which blood issued. The lower end of the tibia was broken, but the fibula was uninjured. In front of the lower end of the tibia, anteriorly, there was felt to be a cavity, and about over the cuboid bone was felt the dis- placed portion of astragalus; the integuments being stretched and thin. The bone was at once removed; and though he had, within a fortnight, two attacks of inflammation, that went on to suppuration, he finally did well, and has for some years moved about as freely as any man. 1869. Dr. G. II. Gay. 3654. A portion of the pelvis, with the upper part of the femur, from a case of old dislocation into the foramen ovale. I rom a man, who fell from a great height, whilst intoxi- cated, and was subsequently under the care of Dr. A. B.