265 MORBID ANATOMY. tirely destroyed ; and, to some extent, the head of the fe- mur- 1847' Dr. J. C. Warren. 1411. Excision of the upper 3 in. of the femur. 4 ram a man, set. twenty-five years, who entered the hos- pital Aug. 7th, 1869 (140, 228). Pain for the last two years, and first felt in the knee, with discharge of pus about the hip during the last year. As the local symp- toms were urgent, and his strength was failing, the opera- t'on was performed on the 30th. Abscesses, however continued to form ; but, toward the last of October, he was able to sit up, and to be carried out of doors ; and on the 14th of November he left the hospital with his health much improved. The head of the bone is in a great measure destroyed by caries, and irregular, but scarcely rough upon the surface. he neck is also absorbed superficially, upon the anterior surface, to some extent, and very definitely ; and there is some new bony deposit about it. Otherwise the bone is compact and healthy. The acetabulum, however, was much c lseased, and portions of bone were removed at the time of the operation. 1869. Dr, Bm M Hodg^ 1412. A second case. - The patient was fifty years of age, and entered the hospital Aug. 6th, 1869 (127, 98). Two years previously he injured his hip, was laid up for two months, and had complained of it from that time. In March, of n„! gaV7T, WOrk; 111 June there was a discharge of pus, and the pain had been very great. He was veiy anmmie; and the limb was quite cedematous, with three off ^^ ab°Ut the hip ; dis^rge free from day 0f entra ^ deUUded bone was felt. On the of the dis n 311 lnC1Slonwas made> and a large portion of the diSeaSed bone was removed ; but it was found to be bone and 0Cyt!nfiltrated ^ pus’ and the head of the decided upcn° 7°^ S° diSeaSed tbat excisioa was the natien 1 \ r°l ab°Ut tW° Weeks after the operation the patient had very much less pain ; but he then began to fall off and on the 7th of Sept, he died. The bone, which has been sawed through, is 4 in in ° , and Ve,y hSht from the interstitial absorption that