222 MORBID ANATOMY. From a woman, thirty years of age. (Hospital, 77,104.) Disease of nine years’ duration. Pain, with discharge of pus, but never of bone. Three years before entrance she sprained her knee ; followed by great pain, and swelling. Health much reduced. Amputation ; and sequestrum re- moved from cut surface ; soft parts infiltrated with lymph ; much bleeding and prostration. Several ounces of pus in knee-joint. Discharged, well, about three and one-half months after the operation. 1858. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 1226. Femur, of which the upper half is enlarged, etc., as from chronic inflammation. Plead and neck remarkably unaffected. 1847- Dr.- J. C. Warren. 1227. Upper two-thirds of femur, flattened, misshapen, and rough upon the posterior surface. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1228. Long, section of the femur, showing the effects of chronic inflammation; enlargement, roughness upon the surface, and obliteration of the cavity, so far as the disease extends. 1857. Dr. B. M. Hodges. 1229. A tibia, over which there may have been an old ulcer. Upon the inner surface, and toward the lower part, is an abrupt and very defined elevation of the surface, that be- comes broader above, and is gradually lost in a disease that involves more or less the whole circumference of the bone. The surface of this last is quite rough, with well- marked caries at the upper back part. The extremities of the bone are quite healthy. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1230. Tibia, sawed lengthwise, and showing the changes that have taken place in the bone, in connection with an old ulcer upon the inside, and just below the middle of the leg. The ulcer was 3 in. or more in length, quite raised above the surrounding surface, and the bones were almost ex- posed. From a dissecting-room subject. The whole bone is enlarged to the extent of 5 or 6 in.; and upon the inner surface, corresponding to the ulcer, it is much raised, and has the coralloid appearance so often seen in diseased bones. Upon the cut surface the affected