MORBID AX ATOMY. 308 1546. A portion of the spine, showing a very marked lateral curvature ; the line of the spinous processes being straight, as compared with that of 'the bodies of the vertebrae. From a girl, eighteen years of age, who died of phthisis and had had the spinal affection for six or seven years. 1866. Dr. J. S. Jones. 1547. The dorsal vertebrae, with portions of the ribs, showing an extreme lateral curvature. From a man, aet. twenty-four, who died of disease of the heart. (Hospital, 228, 36.) 1860. Dr. C. Ellis. 1548. Eight dorsal and three lumbar vertebrae, preserved in their natural connection, and so sharply curved at the ninth dorsal, that the spine seems almost doubled upon itself; the ninth dorsal being only one-fourth of an inch in thick- ness upon the concave side. The processes and laminae of four of the vertebrae are co-ossified; and the structure of the bone is very light as from interstitial atrophy. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1549. A second and similar specimen, but in which the curva- ture is very much less marked ; six dorsal and three lumbar vertebrae preserved. The line of the spinous processes is much straighter than that of the bodies. Structure as in the above case. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. For the external appearances in case of lateral curvature, see next series. 1550. The whole spine, as low as the sacrum, with the thorax. Curvature of spine both lateral and backward. Great lat- eral compression of thorax, "with projection anteriorly ; but this must be more or less due to the preparation, — the ribs being very much atrophied and yielding. 1847. , Dr. J. C. Warren. The three following specimens have been described and figured by Dr. J. Wyman, in his “ Observations on Cra- nia,” —1868. 1551. A deformed cranium, “from a somewhat aged subject. The sagittal suture is wholl3r, and the coronal, lambdoidal, and squamous sutures are partially closed. The index of the foramen magnum is 43.9, showing that the head has been lengthened forward more than backward.” The long.