283 MORBID ANATOMT. was loose in the framework of the frontal bone ; whereas, when operated upon, it was perfectly fixed. There was also a bony shell about the internal portion, as about the external, but without the intervening puriform substance ; and the tumor itself was invested with something like a membrane, that was easily wiped off, and that was not ob- served upon the external portion. The nasal cavities were invaded; and the whole posterior part of the orbit was filled with a series of small lobules connected with the main tumor.; but there were no isolated formations. The growth had nowhere separated nor distorted the bones; but seemed to have its origin in the frontal sinus, or the diploe of the frontal bone ; the bony shell about it being probably the expanded inner and outer tables of the bone. In a published report of this case (Med. Jour. Yol. lxxi. p. 415), Dr. H. refers to a similar operation having once been done successfully ; and also to the treatment by caus- tics, by means of which the tumor dies, and is cast off. 1864- Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1465. A portion of the frontal bone, with the tumor, as above described. 1864. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1466. A rounded ivory exostosis, as it appears on section, about l by in. in diameter, and removed from over the base of the mastoid process of the left temporal bone. From a girl, twenty-six years of age. Tumor of eight years’ duration, and not painful. (Hospital, 139, 238.) 1869- Dr. R. M. Hodges. 146/. A portion of the parietal bone of an old man, showing externally a small but deep depression, and internally a considerable growth of new bone. This last looks superfi- cial, as if it might be scraped off; and a portion of it is not connected with the bone beneath. There was no cica- trix on the scalp ; and it is doubtful whether the condition of the bone was caused by disease or injury. 1856. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1468. A small, irregular exostosis, upon the outside, and just below the middle of the humerus. 1869. 14G9. Cast of a hand, showing a tumor over the back of the