184 MORBID ANATOMY. of the neck, and a separation of the great trochanter into two pieces. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1077. A strongly marked case of impacted fracture of the neck at its union with the shaft, and ununited, though some new bone is thrown out. Trochanter scarcely, if at all, impli- cated. Sawed longitudinally. Sent to Dr. Winslow Lewis by Dr. Chase, of Thomaston, Me., and by Dr. L. to Dr. B. “ The patient was sevent}7 years old, and the fall was slight that caused the fracture; but for many years he was lame, and unable to walk with- out pain, which was always referred to the articulation.” 1854. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. 1078. Section of the upper part of the femur, showing a frac- ture of the neck from the shaft, with deep impaction. From a man, set. eight37-four years, who had been hemi- plegic for several years, and fell suddenly upon his hip. Dr. C. found him in bed, with slight eversion, shortening to the extent of \ in.-f in. and immobility, but no crepi- tus. The patient kept his bed for four weeks, without any bad symptoms, but gradually sank, and died in the middle of the seventh week. Case published b}7 Dr. C., with a figure and remarks, in the Med. Jour. Yol. lv. p. 364. 1856. • Dr. H. G. OlarJc. 1079. The upper portion of the femur, from which the great trochanter has been broken, and to which it is imperfectly united. The neck, which is not preserved, must have been broken from the shaft and impacted, as shown by the hol- low in this last. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1080. Fracture of the neck, from the shaft. The patient was ninety-three years old, very feeble, and lived a month from the time of the accident, which was probably caused by her slipping from a rocking-chair. There was no crepitus, never any shortening, and but little pain ; but there was some swelling of the limb, and poste- riorly extensive ecchymosis. The fracture is very nearly at the union of the neck with the shaft; a large portion of the great trochanter is also broken off; and the trochanter