530 MORBID ANATOMY. many parts of the inner surface were small, dirty-white patches of lymph, some of them roughened by a deposit of salts, from the urine. Rising from one-fourth to one- half of an inch above the surface, just within and a little to the right of the meatus, was a soft, highly vascular vil- lous growth, 3 in. long, and from an inch and a half to 2 in. wide. The vessels were parallel to the villi, which were very distinct, and in water presented very much the same appearance as the villosities of the chorion. The disease was confined to the surface, and resembled soft encepha- loid. The microscopic characters were those of villous cancer ; namety, villi and large cells of various shapes and sizes, — some of them containing large nuclei and nucleoli. The left kidney and ureter were inflamed, and both ureters were dilated. From a healthy farmer, set. forty-five years. For ten years he had complained of his back, and for four years of an occasional burning and throbbing in the urethra after micturition. During the last five months he had passed blood with his urine. Occasionally, during micturition, there was such a pressure downward as to cause involun- tary discharges from the bowels ; there being a difficulty both of passing, and of retaining the urine. Between two and three months before death, he passed from the urethra white bodies, of the size of a common bean. When first seen, seven weeks before his death, he complained chiefly of his back, and the burning in the urethra, but his gener- al appearance was healthy. Ten days afterward Dr. Bacon found the urine turbid, colored by blood, alkaline from car- bonate of ammonia; density, 1.013. There was a large deposit, composed chiefly of whitish ropy mucus, with blood corpuscles and phosphates, and a few pus globules, granular exudation corpuscles, and epithelial cells. The mucus was probably in part a result of the decomposition of pus by the alkaline urine. Considerable albumen was found, which was due to the blood and pus present. Fail- ure gradual, with vomiting and irritability of the bowels the last week. (Med. Jour. Vol. lv. p. 311.) 1857. Dr. C. Ellis.