MORBID ANATOMY. 603 years’ duration, larger than a hen’s egg, hard, movable, painless, increasing slowly, and troubling her chiefly by its size. The patient did well. 1861. Dr. J. M. Warren. 2799. Elephantiasis of the external and internal labia, removed by Dr. J. M. Warren from a girl set. eighteen years. The disease had existed for two years, began in the ext. labia, and formed a rather large tumor; inflamed and painful, with considerable discharge from the surface, though there was no ulceration. Its erectile tendency was shown at the menstrual periods. Clitoris not involved. Hemorrhage not great at the time of removal; and the parts healed well without much contraction. The patient was married afterward, but was soon divorced upon the suit of her hus- band. Dr. W., being then again applied to, found the hymen thickened, and very tough; and, having divided it, the flaps were removed, and the passage was then quite free. She was afterward married again, bore a child in the course of a year, and died in twenty-four hours ; labor not extremely difficult. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 2800. Enlargement and thickening of the internal labia, with almost a warty appearance upon the surface. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 2801. A small, but highly characteristic specimen of elephan- tiasis of the labia; lobulated, warty, dense, and discol- ored. A tumor, weighing 1£ lbs., and of fifteen years’ duration, had been'removed (No. 672 in the Med. Soc.’s Cabinet), but returned in a year and a half; and when the Moman died, about twelve years afterward, there was a mass upon each side of the vulva as large as a sausage. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2802. An enlarged copy by Mr. B., of a photograph of a Jap- anese woman, who had a tumor of immense size hanging down between her thighs, and that resembled, so far as a poor photograph shows, a case of elephantiasis of the labia. Ihere is no appearance, however, of the vulva ; and, though it may have been an elephantiasis that originated from and chiefly affected the clitoris, it may perhaps have formed about the pubes, and descended as it enlarged.