MORBID ANATOMY. 511 of translucency, so that it resembles some kinds of con- fectioueiy. Found by Dr. J. C. White to consist wholly of cholesterine, but that it required a little more oxygen to produce crystallization. From a lady, aet. fifty, who died of apoplexy, and had had symptoms of the passage of a gall-stone four or five years before, with an occasional bilious attack afterward. 1862. Dr. Geo. IF. Pierce, of Leominster. 2416. Section of an ovoid calculus, 1£ in. in length; highly crystalline, and must consist mainly of cholesterine. (See Iso. 2391.) 1847. Dr. J. G. Warren. 241/. A very unusual form of calculus. “Composed,” ac- cording to Dr. White, “ mostly of cholesterine, with some fatty acids, and a trace of inorganic matter. Colored be- tween crystalline plates by inspissated bile.” It is of a rounded form, and nearly half an inch in diameter. On section, it is somewhat radiated in structure ; and the con- trast between the brownish-red portion, and the white and brilliantly crystalline plates is very striking. The exterior is everywhere irregular, and curiously reticulated by the plates, which are quite prominent above the surface; the intervening and depressed portions being of a brown color, and the whole dull in appearance as compared with the brilliant interior. 1869. Dr. J. S. Jones. 2418. A compact, light-colored calculus, of a somewhat cylin- drical form, smooth upon the surface, or coarsely gran- ulated, and measuring 1£ in. by 1 in. It filled the gall- bladder, and no other disease was found. From a lady, aet. sixty-two, who had been dyspeptic for many years, with much uneasiness in the region of the gall-bladder, and occasional yellowness of the surface. When Dr. S. saw her, two years before death, there was a tumor in the region of the gall-bladder, with tenderness there; and he diagnosticated a disease of that organ. Became at last extremely emaciated, feeble, and sallow. L)r. D. II. Storer. 2419. A very dark, pear-shaped calculus, 1§ in. in length, and 1 in. in diameter at its large extremity. Surface crum- bling, and quite soft when recent; so that it has shrunk