INTRODUCTION. IV sity in regard to the symptoms, and the progress of two cases, when the anatomical appearances are nearly similar, is often a very interesting pathological fact. If, however, the history is wanting, and the duplicate must be preserved in spirit, it is an undesirable one; and accordingly many such were removed, after the collection came into the possession of the College. Since Dr. Warren made his donation, the collection has steadily increased from year to year; and it still continues to, as shown in part by the number of specimens that has been added since the printing of the catalogue was commenced last August, and that could not be introduced in their proper place; many others having been added, and that were so introduced. It would be impossible to enumerate the many individuals who have shown an active interest in the Museum, and to whom the College is greatly indebted; specimens having often been sent in from the country, and even from distant parts of the coun- try, as well as from our immediate neighborhood. Some of oui contributors, however, deserve especial notice. I he late Di. George Hayward, who occupied the chair of Surgery aud Clinical Surgery, for a period of ten years (1840-50), made a collection of Thibert’s models when he was in Europe, and for the illustration of his lectures. They amounted altogether to one hundred and sixty specimens, and in 1847 he presented them to the College. The late Dr. John Ware, also, Professor of the Theory and Practice of Medicine, collected ninety-one models by the same artist, and for the same purpose; and these he presented to the College in 1849. Prof. O. W. Holmes has made a great many valuable preparations, to illus- trate his department of healthy anatomy ; and he has also, independently of the Museum, a large number of microscopical preparations, either made by himself, or obtained by corre- spondence, and that he uses annually in a special course to the medical class. Prof. H. J. Bigelow has collected a large number of specimens in the course of his surgical practice, and many of them are of very great practical and scientific value A series of colored lithographs, illustrative of diseased structures, is very fine, and ought especially to be mentioned. They form a small portion of a large number of lithographs, that Prof. B. had taken many years ago, in connection with a proposed work on tumors, but which unfortunately was never