90 healthy anatomy. 824. A fifth specimen, preserved entire. Age about three and one-half months. The brain and spinal marrow are defi- cient ; with hare-lip ; an extroversion of the abdominal or- gans, and much lateral distortion of the trunk. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 825. Separated cranial bones, with the cervical vertebra, from a foetus similar to No. 822. For a description of the oste- ology in this form of monstrosity, see the Med. Soc.’s Cata- logue, p. 248. The upper maxillaries are co-ossified ; and the large wings of the sphenoid are united to the body of the bone. In the dissection of this case, some small cellulo-vascular tumors were found about the base of the skull, but no brain. Pituitary body distinct. Spinal marrow terminated in the membranes. Otherwise well-formed externally ; and so internally, excepting a very strongly marked fissure of the uvula, and the extremely small renal capsules. The mother was a respectable woman, and had had other and well-formed children. Early in her pregnancy she was much frightened by a serpent, and often expressed an anxiety as to the effect upon her child ; and, as soon as it was born, asked her physician if all was right. Motions had been very active. Labor occurred at seven or seven and one-half months ; the back and shoulder presented, and the quantity of liquor amnii was prodigious. Sex, male. 1849. j)r. jm g. £, Jackson. 826. Separated bones of the head of an acephalous foetus. There are two parietals, which is very unusual in this vari- ety of monstrosity, but they are very thin and delicate; the right is If in. in length, and to 3 lines in diameter; . the left is smaller. The two halves of the lower maxillary bone are fused ; and this is exceedingly rare, so far as I have seen. There is fusion, also, of the two upper maxil- laries ; of the body and wings of the sphenoid bone upon the left side; and of all the parts of each temporal bone. The posterior portion of the occiput is divided and formed *as usual in these cases, excepting the narrow pro-