MORBID ANATOMY. 674 of age, and of intemperate habits. In April he had pneu- monia, and passed about 4£ ft. of the worm. Joints passed occasionally during the summer; and, about the last of November, on account of an oppression at the epigastri- um, he took medicine, and passed a considerable piece. A few days afterward Dr. I. was called, and found him with ascites. Castor-oil and turpentine were given, and 7 ft. of the worm were expelled. General dropsy supervened, and he died very shortly afterward. — On dissection, a granulated liver was found ; and, about the middle of the small intestine, 3 in. of the taenia, lying free, though buried in mucus. Dr. Gould examined this last, and found the club-shaped head, the four oval orifices, and in the centre a minute pit, but no marked orifice, and certainly no trace of a coronet of booklets. His drawing, which is shown with the specimen, proves it to be a T. mediocanellata. 1852. Dr. II. B. Inches. 3067. A small portion of the worm from the last case, showing almost a complete separation of the joints, one from another ; and many of them being separated. 1852. Dr. II. B. Inches. 3068. A portion of a taenia; dried upon glass, to show the arborescent form of the genital apparatus. 1848. Dr. Waldo J. Burnett. 3069. Botryocephalus; 9 ft. in length. — The patient was eighteen 3rears of age, from Finland, and had always lived there until the last year. Portions of the worm occasion- ally passed for three years. Appetite voracious ; pain at epigastrium; and some loss of flesh. After kousso, fol- lowed by turpentine, portions of the worm were passed, that amounted altogether to 22£ ft. 1856. Dr. Z. B. Adams. 3070. A second specimen. — From a young gentleman, ast. sev- enteen, who had been in Europe for three years, and foi the last few months in Switzerland. Some months after his return he passed a few joints of the worm ; and, after a cathartic, about 10 ft. In the course of the following year other portions were discharged; and, after a dose of the male fern, and an active cathartic, 8J- ft. more were