MORBID ANATOMY. 238 the large cloacre upon the posterior surface the smaller sequestrum is seen 3£ in. in length; the two being con- nected by a small neck like a sleeve-button. The ex- tremities of the bone are healthy. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1292. Tibia, very greatly diseased. A cavity, that extends throughout its entire length, contains a sequestrum in. long, and to a large extent smooth upon the surface. The shell of bone that remains is thin for the most part, with very large deficiencies, light in structure, and everywhere irregularly nodulated and granulated upon the external sur- face. The upper and lower articular surfaces seem to have been healthy. From a young subject. The specimen belonged to Dr. P.’s father, and its history is unknown. 1869. Dr. C. B. Porter. 1293. A radius from which a large portion of the shaft would probably have in time been discharged as a sequestrum. Having been cut across at the time of the dissection, it is seen that the bone itself is not enlarged, though to some ex- tent rough upon the surface. It is surrounded, however, by a very thick and recent periosteal deposit. In this last, toward the carpus, is an opening into a cavity from which a portion of the old bone may have been discharged ; and toward the upper extremity are three smaller openings through which a sequestrum is seen. The extremities of the bone are healthy. See No. 1408. 1856. Dr. H. J. Bigeloio. 1294. A femur, upon which an operation for necrosis had been performed. From a man thirty years of age (Hospital, 34, 167). Wrenched his knee twenty years before; fol- lowed by pain, suppuration, and discharge of bone for the first five years, but none since. Health not affected. Lower part of thigh considerably affected, with four open- ings about it. The outer part of the thigh was cut down upon, toward the front, and a large portion of bone was re- moved, but no sequestrum was found. The operation lasted more than an hour, and was followed by violent inflamma- tion and death in forty-eight hours.