MORBID ANATOMY. 261 liated, is situated altogether upon the front of the humerus, and connects with the head of the radius, wilich is consid- erably enlarged, and somewhat eburnated. In the head of the ulna the most striking appearance is the great develop- ment of the ridge that is usually seen upon the art. sur- face ; and this ridge fits into a deep fissure between what may be called the inner and outer articular portions of the humerus. No appearance of recent disease, nor of old fracture, excepting a small piece of bone that is connected with the coronoid process by fibrous substance, and that is quite as probably a new formation. Bones quite compact, but slender from atrophy. From a middle-aged subject. The elbow was very much and almost permanently bent. 1857. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1399. Bones of the elbow-joint removed by excision ; 3 in. of the humerus, and 2 of the ulna, with the head of the radi- us. The articular surfaces are superficially carious; and externally to the joint the bones are rough from the ex- uberance of the new deposit. The patient was a healthy farmer, set. twenty-four years, and injured his elbow in February, 1855. In May acute inflammation came on, with suppuration. Excision Dec. 29th. In February, 1856, there were appearances of phthi- sis, and in May he was discharged; the elbow having beeu occasionally inflamed, and more or less troublesome” since the operation. (Hospital, 67, 71.) 1856. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 1400. A second case. The patient was a man, twenty-nine years of age, and of scrofulous appearance. (Hospital, 77, 54.) In 1852 he struck his elbow violently, and from that time had more or less trouble. In July, 1857, fistulse began to form. In October, bone was felt, and in March, 1858, a portion of the olecranon was removed. His health failed, and in June the joint was excised. After this he impioved, and in September he was discharged. In the preparation the humerus is seen to have been re- moved just above the olecranon fossa, with the head of the ladius, and 2^ in. of the ulna ; this last showing the cavity