739 APPENDIX. health, however, wa9 better. Oct. 31st the bone was removed, and on the 16th of Nov. the boy died. 1869. Dr. G. II. Gay. 3660. Photograph of a little girl, seven years of age, and show- ing the thigh bent to a right angle, the effects of hip disease. When Dr. B. saw her last November, there seemed to be anchylosis ; but, under ether, there was just a perceptible motion. The disease began about four and a half years before. For about two years it was active, and afterward a subsidence, so that there had been no pain for several months, and she was able to go about on crutches. Gen- eral health always delicate. The rectus, tensor vaginae femoris, sartorius and adductor longus were divided, and immediately afterward the adhesions were broken down, so that the angle of flexion was reduced to about 45°; and this was the only operation that was performed. For the next two or three months an apparatus was kept applied ; and, at the end of that time, the limb was perfectly straight. For some weeks past (April 12th) she has been able to walk without either crutch or cane, and there is consider- able motion in the joint. Photograph of the above case, after treatment; and in this figure, as well as in the last, the dress has been removed so as to show the exact condition of the limb. 1870. Dr. Buckminster Brown. 3661. A sequestrum, from a femur, that had been amputated; 9 in. in length, and involving a large part of the circum- ference of the bone. 1869. Dr. G. H. Gay. 3662. Excision of the knee-joint; the patella adhering to the outer condyle. — The patient, set. eleven years, entered the hospital Aug. 23d (142, 13). Duration of disease one year ; and knee bent to an angle of about 45°. Operation Oct. 20tli; followed by incessant "Vomiting, and death in about forty-eight hours. The whole joint was perfectly disorganized. 1869. Dr. G. II. Gay. 3663. One of the small cuneiform bones from the foot, that is extensively and deeply carious ; and, being perfectly loose, was readily picked out. The disease, which was chronic,