257 MORBID ANATOMY. part of two or three of the bodies. The membrane in front is thickened, and beneath it there had been an exten- sive abscess ; the surface of the bone, however, not being much affected. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. ° 1378. A section through two lumbar vertebrae. One-half is in spirit, and shows in the back part of each body a cavity about as large as the top of the little finger; one of these being filled with an opaque, curdy matter, and the other, from which it has been removed, showing a distinct lining membrane. Intervertebral substance destroyed, with some caries of the opposing surfaces. The other half was pre- pared as a dry specimen, for the Cabinet of the Soc. for Med. Improvement (No. 1009), and shows the smooth in- terior of one of the cavities, and a hypertrophy of the cancellated structure, into which there had been a tubercu- lar deposit. From a man, aet. twenty-seven, and a hospital patient (36, 50). Disease of more than two years’duration; but he gave up only about three months before death. A large abscess was found upon the right side of the spine, and extended far down into the thigh; and one upon the left side opens in the lumbar region. 1852. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. 1379. Extensive and deep caries of the bodies of the tenth and eleventh dorsal vertebrae, with a more superficial dis- ease of three of the lumbar. From a man, twenty-five years of age, who entered the hospital Dec. 14th, 1867 (134, 126). There had been pain in the back for six months, and over the sacrum for three; Ins previous health having always been quite good. An abscess was opened; after which he became feverish and delirious, and died on the 8th of January. Much caseous matter, with large and extensive collections of pus, was found about the vertebrae; a miliary deposit roughout both lungs, tubercular meningitis, and the same disease in both testicles. 1868. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. 1380. Cast, in plaster, of a portion of the back of a little girl, six years old, and showing a very marked angular curva- ture ot the lumbar vertebrae. Disease of rather more than 17