353 MORBID ANATOMY. were well. (Amer. Jour, of Med. Sc., Oct. 1848, p. 301.) 1848. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 1767. A fourth specimen. The laceration commences 2 in. • beyond the left subclavian artery; and the blood was mostly between the outside of the thoracic aorta and the spine, though to some extent the parietes of the vessel have been dissected apart. Rupture took place into the left pleural cavity ; and the appearances seemed to show that this did not occur until some little time after the ves- sel gave wa}\ From a gentleman, set. fifty-six, who had disease of the heart, and symptoms of it for eight months or more. 1847. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 1768. A fifth specimen. At the arch, posteriorly, is a longi- • tudinal laceration, 2 in. in length, and extending through the inner and middle coats. The blood had forced its way between the middle and external coats as far as the iliacs, upward into the right subclavian and carotid arteries, and down toward the heart, near which is a small opening into the pericardium ; the cavity of this last containing a large amount of blood. Ill the arch of the aorta were two or three small atheromatous spots, but not along the rupture ; beyond this there was more disease, but nowhere much. From Dr. H., oet. fifty-nine, and always healthy. His death at last was instantaneous; but five days before, he had what seemed to be an attack of apoplexy, and to which he seemed predisposed. He complained, however, just as the attack was coming on, of a “ disagreeable” feeling in the left breast, and, on the daj^ before his death, of an “ uneasiness’ in the chest. The laceration was supposed to have occurred when he was first attacked, and the open- ing into the pericardium at the time of death. (Med. Jour. Vol. lii. p. 418.) 1855. Dr. C. Ellis. 1769. A sixth specimen. — The laceration commences just above the valves, and extends an inch and a half upward, posteriorly, and through the inner and middle coats. Mid- dle and outer coats separated to the extent of about one- half of their circumference, and as far as 4 in. from the iliacs; portions of the middle coat being separated with; 23