MORBID ANATOMY. 269 1420. Photographs of a case of angular false anchylosis of hip, before and after treatment. Sequel of hip disease four years previously. The femur was flexed and adducted ; the knee contracted, and the foot several inches from the ground and everted. On the 1st of June, 1869, the sar- torius, tensor vaginse femoris, and adductor longus were divided, and the adhesions within the joint ruptured by “ brisement force;” and about the last of Sept, the boy went home with a wonderfully improved limb. The.femur was perfectly straight, and on a line with the body; the symmetry of the two sides being nearly if not precisely alike ; and with a fair motion of the hip-joint; knee straight. The whole limb one inch shorter than the other, but the shortening was chiefly between the knee and ankle, and is fully accounted for by arrest of growth. 1869. Dr. Buckminster Brown. 1421. Bony anchylosis of right hip-joint. From a young man, mt. twenty, who died of leucocy- themia at the hospital (273, 96). About five years before, he was kicked upon the hip by a horse, and had been lame from that time. The thigh was strongly inverted, and car- ried toward the left side, and the hip was quite prominent. Shortly before his death he had severe pain in the hip, and an abscess afterward opened there ; abscesses being found, on dissection, upon each side of the lumbar vertebrae, and pus beneath the psoas muscles, as far as the groins. The head of the bone is about of full size, but drawn somewhat upward and strongly anchylosed. Besides the general displacement there is a strong inward twist of the lower end of the bone. 1868. Dr. J. Romans. 1422. A fracture of the left femur just below the great trochan- tei. Union strong, but very irregular, and not complete. The bone is flexed upon the pelvis nearly at a right angle, and inverted ; and there is bony anchylosis of the hip-joint. From a man who died at the hospital (280, 114), of in- ternal disease. The thigh was 4 in. shorter than its mate. I he bones overlap to that extent or more ; and, a very con- siderable absorption having taken place of each of the fragments, it appears as if it majr have been originally a very oblique fracture. 1869. Dr. J. Homans.