100 HEALTHY ANATOMY. much in size. A double ligature was applied by Dr. B.; cerebral symptoms came on, and it died with the most in- tense meningitis on the fourteenth day. The anterior horn of the right ventricle extended down- ward in the direction of the tumor, and was lost in the re- mains of the base of it. The cranium, having been pre- pared by insects, shows a regular and nearly circular open- ing, corresponding to the site of the tumor, and resulting from a deficiency in the frontal bones, and a depression of the bones below the tumor; the nasals being broad and nearly horizontal in their position. The orbital cavities are large, and directed outward, and are quite distinct from the above opening; the nasal processes of the maxillary bones nearly uniting with the frontals to form the lateral margin of the opening. Orbital portion of the frontal bones quite prominent within the cranial cavity. The sphenoidal fissures are quite large, and there are some ir- regularities of development dependent upon the formation of the opening in the skull; but otherwise this last is well formed. 1859. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. For a summary of seventy-five cases of encephalocele, see Med. Chir. Transactions, Yol. xxxxx. p. 307. 845. A foetus, preserved entire, and at or near the full period. From the back of the head, which is of about the usual size, there hangs off a tumor that is larger than the head itself, feeling as if it might contain brain, and covered by integument, though this last is quite thin, posteriorly. 1855. 846. A cast, in plaster, of the back of the head of a foetus, and in which the membranes of the brain protruded through an opening in the upper part of the occiput, and upon the median line ; forming a deep red, shining, and fleshy mass, of a rounded form, and quite as large as the last joint of the thumb. On dissection, nothing unusual was discov- ered in the brain, so far as exposed by a separation of the sagittal suture ; but the continuity of the membranes into the external mass was quite distinct. The abdomen was unusually enlarged, and owing to the great size of the kid- neys. T^he other organs were well formed. Sex, female. Feet affected with varus. See No. 2455.