329 MOIiBID ANATOMY. 16G9. An index finger, amputated by Dr. Bigelow ; and show- ing a tumor connected with the extensor tendon, that he regards as a “ hypertrophy of its investing membrane.” From a man, aet. forty-two, who entered the hospital Nov. 11th (141,253). Tumor around the metacarpo-phal. articulation, of the size of an English walnut, extending somewhat towards the palm ; painless, and feeling like an enchoudroma. Integument not affected; and motion of the joint good. Duration five years. In the spring it had been incised; and about a drachm of fluid, like the white of an egg, was discharged. On the 13th Dr. B. removed the finger, with nearly the whole of the metacarpal bone. The tumor extended nearly to the carpus, was about the size of a pullet’s egg, white, dense to the feel, somewhat knobbed, and discharged, on incision, a yellowish, gelatinous substance, that was con- tained in fine meshes of a white fibrous tissue. The ten- don, beneath the bone and the tumor, seemed to be merged in this last. The man did well, and left the hospital on the 26th. 1869. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 1670. A portion of one of the tendons of the foot; and, closely attached to it, a small tumor about an inch in length. This last seemed to be made up of little cysts, filled with a clear, reddish, and very viscid substance ; but, on punc- turing one or two of them, this last seemed rather to be contained in a coarse fibro-cellular structure. The sur- rounding parts were healthy. 1855. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1671. Casts, to show the external appearances in the “ House- maid’s knee.” There was a cyst over each patella, very prominent, and fluctuating most distinctly. From a woman, set. twenty-five, whose chief business was to wash floors. (Hospital, 54, 101.) Disease of about two j'ears’ duration. Both C3^sts evacuated with a grooved needle, and compression applied. The right did perfectly well; but upon the left side there were inflamma- tion and suppuration, that extended to the thigh. Dis-