357 MORBID ANATOMY. 1776. Thibert’s model. Double aneurism of the aorta, forming two large pouches. . The one in the ascending portion con- tains no coagula. The second, which is just beyond the arch, contains a large old clot that is hollow in the cen- tre ; and the entrance into the descending aorta is quite abrupt. In the first sac are small ossific patches through- out the internal surface. Orifices of the heart healthy. 1849. Dr. J. Ware. • 1777. Aneurism of the asc. aorta, that must have been at least • half as large as the fist; cavity filled with fibrine. Orifice just above the valves, about an inch and a half in diame- ter, circular, and very defined. The sac presses upon, and distends the pulmonary artery so as almost entirely to ob- literate the valves. It also presses upon the right ventricle below the valves, as shown in the preparation ; and it evi- dently might, at some future time, have ruptured at either point. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1778. The heart, with the ascending portion and arch of the aorta, dilated into a true aneurismal sac, that is larger than the two fists; the inner surface of the sac showing small cretaceous plates, and looking altogether like that of a common diseased artery. From the upper part of the sac a false aneurism arises, with a defined orifice, and pressing against the lower half or more of the trachea. The vessels that arise from the arch seem healthy. 1861. 1//9. Aneurism of the arch of the aorta; opening into the • trachea. Fiom a stiong, healthjr man, about forty-five years of age, and who had had palpitation, with increased and irreg- ular action of the heart “ for years.” Whilst sitting quietly, he coughed twice, blood poured from his mouth, and in a few minutes he died. The sac, which is about the size of a goose-egg, arises fiom the back of the aorta ; and the opening into the tra- chea is between one and two lines in diameter, and 1£ iu. above the bifurcation. There are old fibrinous clots in the cavitjr; and the vessels at the arch arise from near the mouth of the sac. 1867. Dr. H. G. Clark.