746 APPENDIX. compact; but upon more than one-half of the surface there is an addition of a coarse deposit, not laminated, quite defined, and varying from about * to J in. in thickness. Dr. TV hite finds the body of the stone to consist of uric acid and ur. of ammonia, with a little ox. and phosph. of lime. The outgrowth consists of carb. and phosph. of lime, with triple phosph. of ammonia and magnesia. The external surface is rough or granulated, corresponding to the outgrowth, and the rest is smooth. The patient was a little boy, six years old, who was sent to the hospital Feb. 23d, from an almshouse in the country, with club foot (142, 121). March 19th it was reported that from the time of admission he had wet his bed in the night; and a woman who brought him to the hospital stated that he had had the same trouble so long as he had been at the almshouse. Urine passed frequently, with con- sideiable pain, and sometimes it stopped ; turbid in appear- ance, and contained pus, with the triple phosphate. On the 27th the calculus was felt, and on the 30th it was removed. April 13th: since the operation the urine has passed almost wholly through the wound, but since yester- day almost wholly by the urethra. 29th: the child is in every way doing well. 1870. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 3G77. A prolapsed uterus, of which casts have been taken. (No. 2/h6.) It has been prepared by Dr. B., according to the method of M. Van Vetter, of Boulogne, and seems likely to retain its natural suppleness, and without decom- position. The organ having been drawn up so as to fairly expose the fundus and body, a probe is found to enter about 5 in. from the os, and shows that there is elongation as well as prolapse. The relations of the organ to the bladder, and also to the peritoneum, anteriorly and posteriori}', are perfectly represented in one of Cruveilhier’s figures (Anat. Path. Liv. xvi. pi. 4) ; and a considerable portion of each of the peritoneal protrusions, and also of the blad- der, would have been removed, if a transverse incision had been made directly through the upper part of what would generally have been called the prolapsed uterus. There