MORBID ANATOMY. 627 weeks, but was at last able to sit up for several hours. On the 12th of March symptoms of internal hemorrhage came on, ancl she died in eleven hours, — in the fourth month of pregnancy. On examination, a large effusion of blood was found in the peritoneal cavhy: and in that of the pelvis an entire ovum, that appeared to lie between the Fall, tube and ovary, but the exact connection of which, with the sur- rounding surface, was not ascertained. The foetus is well- formed, and 6£ in. in length. The uterus was 4 in. in length, changed as usual in pregnancy, and lined by a decidua. 1863. Dr. C. Ellis. 2923. A foetus that was sent from the country to Dr. S., as having been carried twenty-two months beyond the full period of gestation, but which was without any reasonable doubt a case of extra-uterine gestation. The patient, set. forty-two years, had had several chil- dien and miscarriages, and had good reason to suppose that she had reached the full period of pregnancy in April, 1858. Labor pains then came on, but not very actively, and they soon subsided. Menstruation had occurred two or three times before April, and continued to afterward so long as she lived, though irregularly and scantily. A tumoi lemained in the hypogastriuin; but the woman en- joyed good health until Oct., 1859, when she fell down stairs. This was followed by great pain in the abdomen, nausea and vomiting, and four weeks after the accident by copious, loose, and very offensive discharges from the bowels. In Feb., 1860, she died. On dissection, the fundus of the uterus was found very extensively adherent to the small intestine, and also to the sigmoid flexure of the colon. In the cavity that contained the loetus there was no trace of a placenta, but about a pint of thick yellow fluid, with feculent matter, which last was explained by an opening from the cavity into the colon, and through which the left hand and fore-arm of the foetus had passed. —The foetus now weighs (1868) 2 lbs. 13 oz.; and the length of the spine is nearly 7 in. Cra- nial bones, and the ends of many of the long bones de-