560 MORBID ANATOMY. 2665. A rough, dark-brown calculus, 2 J lines or more, in diam., and passed from the urethra. From a man, about thirty-two years of age, who had “bilious fever” in Aug. and Sept., 1866, and that lasted for ffve weeks. This was followed by attacks of pain in the stomach, umbilicus, pubic or right iliac regions, with retraction of the scrotum, but not of the testicle; some- times preceded by pain in the lower part of the spine ; oc- casionally with priapism ; and always followed by a sense of constriction to the right of the pubes, extending down the right side of the penis, and into the thigh. In March, 1867, he went abroad, and had no trouble except an occa- sional sense of constriction about the pubes. About the first of July, after his return, and whilst feeling perfectly well, the uneasiness in the pubic region returned, with fre- quent desire to urinate, and very slight hematuria, and in the night the calculus was passed. Examined by Dr. J. C. White, and found to consist of the ox. of lime. 1867. Dr. C. Ellis. 2666. Urethral calculus, about 3 by 5 lines; dark, very hard, and somewhat irregular. Probably ox. of lime. — From a gentleman, who, in the spring of 1868, began to have attacks of very severe and sharp pain in the right side of the abdomen, with a drawing up of the testicle; micro- scopicalty, a few blood globules and crystals of the ox. of lime were occasionally seen. In Dec., 1869, he felt by the pricking pain that the calculus had entered the urethra; •considerable force was required to expel the urine, and occasionally it stopped; and about the third day the cal- culus was expelled. 1870. Dr. C. Ellis. 2667. Ox. of lime. Form very peculiar; originally an ovoid, from which three equidistant processes shoot out, forming a triangular prism on section. Largest diameter, 6'". 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 2668. A calculus that was voided by a mare, after considerable straining. Of a regular, oval form ; 2| in. by f in., and quite heavy; surface quite coarsety and uniformly granu- lated, and of a dark ash-color, externally. On section, it is indistinctly radiated from the centre, and the color is