MORBID ANATOMY. 276 The patient, £et. nineteen, entered the hospital (125, 32) Nov. 8th, 1865. Four years before he was shot in the knee, and for the next year kept his bed, with much swell- ing and profuse suppuration. No motion in joint for three years, though there was but little pain. The knee was bent to an acute angle ; the leg was much atrophied, and the bone could be felt through an old sinus. Amputation on the 11th. On the 21st the bone protruded ; much pain followed; and on the 29th of Dec., 5 in. of the femur were removed. To the extent of about 4 in. it was sur- rounded by new bone from ^ to § in. in thickness ; and on section, in the recent state, it showed finely the appear- ances of osteo-myelitis. (See Nos. 1280-1). Feb. 7th he left the hospital, and finally got well. 1866. Dr. Geo. H. Gay. 1442. Knee-joint anchylosed, with enlargement and other ap- pearances of chronic inflammation of the femur. 1854. Dr. R. M. Hodges. False anchylosis ; Series xxi. 1443. The astragalus, os calcis, and bones of the leg, from a case of disease of the ankle-joint. The astragalus, which seems to have been the chief seat of disease, is very rough and irregular upon its upper surface, deeply carious upon the outer face, and anchylosed to some extent to the os calcis, which last shows the effects of inflammation. An- terior articular surface of both bones healthy ; those of the bones of the leg being carious. The other bones of the foot were affected with interstitial atrophy. From ayoung man, eighteen years of age. (Hospital, 91, 68.) Disease for six 3rears, and came on without obvious cause ; pain, swelling, and stiffness. Two small openings, and bone felt; leg much atrophied ; amputated and did well. 1860. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. 1444. Upper half of the astragalus, from a woman about forty- five years of age, “ and of a decidedly scrofulous diathesis.” In June, 1865, she complained of having sprained her ankle ; and, when first examined, some weeks afterward, there was considerable swelling, with tenderness, and pain on motion; the pain being generally slight. In Dec.