MORBID ANATOMY. 515 finger, of an irregular form, and almost without fa^ettes ; the rest very much smaller and angular. — From an elderly woman. 1863. Mr. George W. Masters, mecl. student. 2446. Eight large calculi, and mostly quite angular ; with sev- eral small ones. — From a woman, about fiity years of age, who died of phthisis. 1868. Dr. C. D. Porter. 2447. Four hundred and fifty-four smooth, compact, dark-brown calculi, from £ to nearly \ in. in diameter, and with well- marked fagettes. — From a large, plethoric, and exceedingly gross woman, set. fifty-five years. The gall-bladder was filled with the calculi, and contained nothing else excepting a white mucus. 1864. Dr. G. J. Arnold, of Roxbury. The number of cases in which biliary calculi have been found in females, rather than males, and particularly in fleshy subjects, has been quite remarkable. Their latency, also, has been very frequently observed here, as else- where. 2448. A very large collection of biliary calculi, pretty uniformly about 1 to 3 lines in diameter, and measuring alto- gether giiss. — From a female, set. eighty-two, who had disease of the heart. The gall-bladder was 6 in. in length, the same in circumference, and contained much bile, be- sides the calculi, some of which last were just within the cystic duct. There had been nausea and vomiting the last two weeks, but no cardiac symptoms. 1869. Dr. John Homans. 2449. Calculi, discharged from the umbilicus. The patient was a woman, eighty years of age, and had had a burning sensation in the right side for six or seven years, with thick and very fetid urine; but her general health was good. In Dec., 1868, a severe pain came on over the liver, and continued about three weeks. About two weeks afterward, a tumor of some size appeared over the gall-bladder, without pain ; and about the 1 st of March it opened at the umbilicus, and discharged a calculus. From that time one or two calculi were discharged every two or three days, until the 23d of October, when, after