MORBID ANATOMY. 654 were considerably softer, and there they hung more loosely together. To some extent there were no formed lobules, but the mass had an amorphous though somewhat granular appearance ; and here it was still softer, though it nowhere had the gelatiniform consistence that enchondroma some- times has. To a small extent the firmer portion of the tumor had a rich reddish tinge; but there was nowhere any extravasation of blood. At some depth from the sur- face, and where the structure was quite firm, there existed an irregular cavity that would have held §ij. or §iij.; it contained a brownish synovial-like fluid, and the defined parietes were formed by the enehondromatous structure itself. A smaller and similar cavity existed near the above; and in several of the lobules there was a central softening, brownish discoloration and serous infiltration, as if in preparation for a cavity. The amount of cretaceous matter was quite large ; and it was generally scattered irregularly throughout the mass as a creamy-white amor- phous deposit. In very many of the nodules, however, it appeared, on section, as a narrow, defined line, and in the form of a more or less complete ring ; and, on further ex- amination, this ring appeared, in some of them, to be a section of a more or less complete little sphere. After removing typical specimens from different parts of the tumor, the remainder of the mass was macerated to show the cretaceous transformation. The clavicle (No. 3017) was perfectly healthy, though surrounded b}' the morbid growth, except at its outer ex- tremity, where there arose from its upper surface a bony tumor, equal to 14 in. in diameter, or more. This last was of a somewhat reddish color and cancellated structure, and was, in fact, an exostosis, as distinguished from the cretaceous deposit above referred to ; it arose from the outer parietes of the bone, which last, though intimately con- nected with it, was continuous and healthy in appearance, as appeared on section. In this cancellated growth was one small enehondromatous deposit, and its upper extrem- ity was directly continuous with a large mass of the same. The shoulder-joint was entirely disorganized. The head