MORBID ANATOMY. 334 1691. The same; long, section. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1692. Knee-joint flexed to a right angle ; and there must have • been false anchylosis, from the amount of fibrous adhesions that seem to have existed. Cartilage destroyed to a con- siderable extent, with caries of the bone beneath, but it is mostly healthy. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1693. A hand, preserved entire in spirit, and showing the ap- . pearances usually seen externally in scrofulous disease of the carpus. 1847. J• 0. Warren. 1694. The lower extremity of the femur and the bones of the elbow-joint, showing the gout-deposit. The articular sur- faces look, to a considerable extent, as if they had been whitewashed. A few of the other articulations were ex- amined, and traces of the same were found ; as it was also about the ligaments and tendons of the hand. I860. Dr. E. M. Hodges. 1695. One of the great toe-joints in spirit, and showing the gouty deposit upon the articular surface m the form of a fine white powder; the other great toe being similarly affected, and also the metatarso-cuneiform articulations. There was, also, immediately beneath the skin, and over one of the joints, a white, pasty substance in an ill-defined cavity, about H lines in diameter, with a trace of the same in the neighboring cellular tissue. This was found, by Dr. John Bacon, to consist of the “ urate of soda, with a little chloride of sodium and phosphate of lime, and a consider- able proportion of animal matter; ” microscopically, it had a “ granular appearance, but no distinct crystals. From a man, cet. fifty-two, of intemperate and dissolute habits, much subject to gout, and who died at the hospital /'172. 186), of Bright’s disease. 1852. v Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 1696 A collection of over sixty bones from a dissecting-room subject, dried, and showing the gouty deposit upon the f. ee articular surfaces. They consist of the small bones of the hands and feet, bones of the forearm and leg, scapula, and patella The hip and knee were also affected, and m a places' 'the tendons; of which last one specimen is shown.