APPENDIX. 738 much caries, though an opening of some size leads into the interior of the bone, which looks hollowed out as if by the abscess. The head of the bone is sufficiently healthy. The lower fragment is 4| in. in length, and a large portion of it is exfoliating, though still firmly connected. Surface of the dead portion1 partly quite smooth and unchanged, but partly porous as from preliminary inflammation. Ar- ticular surface, and the bone just above the joint, exten- sively carious. 1869. Dr. G. H. Gay. 3658. Disease of the radius. — The bone, midway, is very much enlarged, rough upon the surface, and shows several open- ings that communicate with a central cavity, in which is a sequestrum that must be about 3 in. in length. The en- largement is fusiform, and the whole bone is more or less enlarged, excepting the very upper extremity. The ulna and lower part of the humerus are healthy; but Dr. L. found some disease of the carpal bones. From a healthy man, fifty-five years of age, who in Feb- ruary, 1868, had a very severe attack of inflammation of, or about, the bone. In May, Dr. L. saw him, and opened the parts freely, with great relief; but extensive necrosis took place. In December, 1869, there was a verj' copious hemorrhage, and on the 20th the limb was amputated above the elbow. On examination, it was found greatly swollen, and infiltrated with serum and blood ; and near the wrist the radial artery had been completely severed by the sharp and pointed extremity of the sequestrum. Re- sult successful. 1870. Dr. G. H. Lyman. 3659. About If in. of the upper extremity of the femur, removed during life. Head of the bone nearly destroyed by caries ; surface rough, as is the neck in part. Structure very light; no new growth. From a delicate little boy, nine years old, who entered the hospital April 22d, 1857 (75, 95). Duration of disease three years; and abscesses the last eight months. Limb drawn up and flexed, and extension gave great pain. Oct. 26th, shortening about 3 in.; several extensive fistulae; and the head of the bone was felt denuded. The general