97 HEALTHY ANATOMY. of brain ; but, microscopically, Dr. Ellis found none of its characteristics. 1866. Dr. Royal S. Warren, of Waltham. 837. Skeleton and trunk, prepared by insects. Cranium very imperfectly developed. The frontal and parietal bones, however, are large enough to extend over the whole base of the skull, but so depressed as to touch the left, and nearly touch the right clinoid process, and to leave the cavity posteriori}7 very small; upper surfaces concave. The depth of the orbits, in consequence of the develop- ment of the frontal bones is quite marked, as compared with their shallowness in the more common form of “ aceph- alous foetus” (No. 821, etc.), in which last these bones are so. very narrow. The posterior portion of the occiput is formed in a single piece, with a thick and round- ed edge inferiorly, and arched upward so as to be only about one-fourth of an inch in width, on the median line. The lateral portions are well developed, as usual, but spread apart so as to make with the posterior portion an occipital foramen that measures 1 in. laterally, and f in. in the opposite direction. The palate is fissured to just be- hind the alveoli. The spine is open throughout, and curved sharply backward at the junction of the cervical and dorsal vertebrae. Laminae of the four last cervical vertebrae upon each side fused, and upon the left with those of the three upper dorsal; an anomalous bone, and of some size, being also connected Avith the extremities of these last. Most of the ribs are more or less irregularly developed, and many of them are fused, posteriorly ; there being, besides the usual number, one upon each side, which is considerably developed, and must be regarded as cervical.. Age of foetus about seven months'. Motions quite strong until the last week or two. One foot presented, and the cord was wound around the other leg. Still-born. Quantity of liquor amnii large. There were several de- formed persons in her neighborhood, by whom the mother' was strongly impressed ; “ made herself nearly sick, wor- ryingi from a fear that her child would be deformed, and stated her fears many times to her husband.” > 7