MORBID ANATOMY. 146 mile to his hotel, he got out with some assistance, and en- tered the house. Two hours afterward, when he was seen by Dr. Harlow, he was quite conscious and collected in his mind, but exhausted by a profuse hemorrhage from the top of the head ; the scalp being everted, the bones very exten- sively fractured and upraised, and the brain protruding. In front of the angle of the lower jaw, upon the left side, was a linear wound through which the bar had entered, by the pointed end. There was a protrusion of the left eye, equal to nearly one-half of its diameter ; and the left side of the face was more prominent than the right. With a view to the presence, possibly, of any foreign bodies, Dr. II. passed one index finger down its whole length into the wouud from above, and the other freely upward from be- low. Frequent vomiting of blood from the stomach. The pulse at this time was 60. On the 15th the hemorrhage had ceased; vision of the left eye was indistinct, and there was delirium. On the 16th a fetid discharge, with particles of brain, from the head ; with a discharge also from the mouth. 23d : More rational, stronger, and asked for food. Vision in left eye quite gone. Pulse 60-84 since the accident. On the 24th erysipelas appeared below the wound ; and for the next three days he was more comatose, with a large fungous growth from the upper wound, and a fungus from the inner canthus of the eye, that first appeared on the 19th. 27th: Discharge from the upper wound small, and exhalations from the mouth horribly fetid. The large fungous growth was excised, and ยง viii of pus were discharged by incision over the lower part of the frontal bone. Eye very promi- nent. The discharge after this was profuse and fetid. Oct. 6th he was better locally and generally, and sat up for a few minutes, but appeared demented. Nov. 8th he was in every way doing well, and went abroad. On the 14th he walked half a mile, exposed to dampness and cold, and there followed a febrile attack, with lancinating pain in the left side of the head and face. For this he was bled and purged; and on the 18th he was about the house again. On the twenty-fifth, about seven weeks and a half after the