305 MORBID ANATOMY. 1-631. Lower half of the femur, showing a cancerous growth just above but partially involving the condyles ; nearly as large as the two fists, and situated mostly about the inner condyle, but investing the whole bone more or less. In structure it consists mainly of an earthy, crumbling sub- stance. A dried preparation. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1532. One-half of the lower jaw of an animal (Bos) showing an extensive destruction of the alveolar portion, as from some malignant disease ; elsewhere health}’-. 1853. Dr. Henry Bryant. 1533. A defined tumor, as large a^ a foetal head, that seems • to have originated from the upper bone of the sternum; structure very coarsely granular, but not distinctly enceph- almd. Very little, if any, of the upper bone remains ; but the clavicles and first ribs, which are preserved, appear to be healthy. In spirit. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. lo34. Malignant disease about the knee-joint. The femur and tibia are almost entirely destroyed to the extent, each, of about 3 in.; but otherwise there is no appearance of disease of these bones. The articular cartilages remain, and are somewhat adherent. In the soft parts, outside of the bones, there is anteriorly and laterally a very large cavity, the inner surface of which has. a most remarkably fibrous and reticulated appearance. Directly behind the joint, and connected with it only by the soft parts, is a defined tumor nearly as large as the fist, and that, having been sawed open, seems to consist about equally and uniformly of soft substance and earthy matter. 1847. __ Dr. J. C. Warren. l035i8fi7Ult SkUU ; CalVaria V6ry thin’ but sufficiently compact. Dr. Francis Dana. 1536 Lower portion of an adult cranium. Orbital portion of the rontal bone upon each side very thin and somewhat per- forated. Structure compact. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. ^ l^afei Cilst of the skull of an old negro, showing a road, deep, and symmetrical depression upon each side between the parietal protuberances and the vertex. There " als° a reraarkable flattening in the temporal regions. Ihe structure was very light and spongy; and, at the de-