MORBID ANATOMY. 374 but with scarcely ever any tenderness along the veins. 1856. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 1830. The upper vena cava and its great branches dissected out and showing the effects of former phlebitis ; the following appearances being noted in the recent state. Vena cava, very nearly from its termination in the heart, vena innomi- nata, and left subclavian filled with a soft, pultaceous fibrine. Left jugular, to the extent of J an inch, reduced to a cord £ of an inch in diameter, and filled with whitish, crumbling fibrine. The common trunk of the right jugular and subclavian was reduced to a cord J of an inch in diam- eter, and filled with dense fibrine. The right subclavian, to the extent of § of an inch from its origin, was more dis- eased than any other part, and so completely atrophied that it was with difficulty found, but the cavity was at last traced and laid open. Beyond these parts there was in the vessels coagulated blood and fibrine. Two veins upon the right side of the neck were most remarkably adherent to some extent by the inner surface, and formed a thick flat band, but without a trace of fibrine within. The fibrine had in several places more or less of an ochre-3 elloiv coloi ; but it could generally be separated from the inner suiface of the vessels, and left this last with its natural polish. The parietes of the veins were generally thick and opaque, and blended with the surrounding cellular tissue, where they were reduced to a cord. The vena azygos is seen cut off just at its termination in the great vein, and of full size, though a portion of fibrine lies loosely across its ori- fice. There was also recent coagulum and fibrine in the rio-ht ext. iliac vein and fibrinous deposits upon the inner surface of both auricles of the heart. From a woman, set. thirty-nine, who died at the hospital (133, 131), of general tuberculosis, after about a years sickness; phlebitis having never been thought of. Theie was .considerable oedema of the face and all four of the extremities ; but this may have been owing to Bright s dis- ease, which was well marked. 1849. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 1831. Thibert’s model. Inflammation of the veins of the sper- . i i qj.7 Dr. G. Hayward. matic cord. 1»41.