465 MORBID ANATOMY. ach. The diseased mass is well defined, of a circular form, about 4 in. iu diameter, and rises about half an inch above the surrounding surface, in soft, regular masses, that pro- ject beyond the base; situated mainly in the posterior parietes, and within an inch of the pylorus. The organs of the abdomen were matted together as by former peri- tonitis ; but there was no other cancerous disease. From a bootmaker, set. forty-eight years, who had long been subject to dyspepsia and constipation. Gave up his work in Feb.; kept his bed from July, and died in Dec. Dysphagia was an urgent symptom, though the disease was far away from the cardiac orifice. Vomiting one or two hours after taking food; never much pain; great emaciation. Tumor in the epigastrium during the last three weeks. It may be questioned whether the pressure that he must have been in the habit of making, in the exercise of his tiade, may have had anything to do with the development of his disease. (Amer. Jour, of Med. Sc., April, 1852.) Dr. Wm. C. B. Fifield, of Dorchester. 2234. Cancer of the stomach, terminating in perforation. From a man, sixty-eight years of age, who for eighteen months had been subject, a short time after eating, to pain in the epigastrium. Never any hemorrhage or vomiting. The difficulty was attributed to ordinary dyspepsia. The night before his death he was attacked with severe pain just below the epigastrium, and this continued until his death, which took place suddenly on the following morn- ing. On examination about two pints of serous pus were found in the peritoneal cavity. Slight redness of the ex- ternal surface of the upper part of the intestines. In the small curvature of the stomach was a deep excavation, occupy ing the greater part of a soft, whitish growth, be- tween 2 and 3 in. in diameter, which extended nearly to the pylorus. The margin of this was elevated and under- mined. In the centre of the diseased portion was a circu- lai opening, about four lines in diameter, into the perito- neal cavity. There was the acute peritonitis, but no other- disease. (Med. Jour. Vol. lxii. p. 324.) 1860. 30 Dr. C. Ellis.