MORBID ANATOMY. 585 constantly for eight weeks. Menstruation at this period ceased on the second or third day; and immediately after- word a tumor appeared quite suddenly above the pubes, with very little local or constitutional disturbance. April 25th Dr. P. saw her, in consultation with Dr. C. D. Cleave- land. The tumor was then of a globular form, about the size of a small foetal head, slightly elastic, and not hard, nor tender on pressure. A soft tumor was felt in the up- per part of the vagina, and upon the back of it the os uteri appeared as a semilunar slit. The appetite was good, and she did not look sick. July 13th there was moie local and constitutional disturbance; the vaginal tumor was about 6 in. in diameter, and more prominent; and, being opened, discharged about gviii. of thick, yel- low, inodorous pus. Aug. 29th the tumor above the pubes like a foot-ball.” Opened per vag., and discharged four quarts of pus, of rather disagreeable odor; the pari- etes of the abscess collapsing so as nearly to efface the cavit}r. From this date the discharge of pus was constant until her death in Nov. 1862 ; menstruation being regular during nearly the whole time. The abscess was very defined and regular; and, though ernpt}7, was capable of holding from one to two pints ; parietes dense; inner surface quite dark and knobbed, and looked as if an adventitious mucous membrane were form- ing; a minute opening, from the puncture, is seen in front of the uterus, which is considerably enlarged. (See Med. Jour. Vol. lxix. p. 59.) 1863. Dr. G. G. Putnam. 2741. A large multilocular cyst, developed in the parietes of the fundus of the uterus. The patient was an unmarried, light-mulatto woman, ret. thii ty-three years, and resided in the West Indies. In 1856 she had “typhoid fever” twice. During convales- cence from the second attack she was very much frightened by a lunatic, had excessive uterine hemorrhage, and the abdominal tumor was then discovered. From that time she was confined mostly to her bed or a couch, and became greatly reduced in flesh and strength, with nausea and vomiting. Catamenia suppressed at first, but throughout her sickness she had an irregularly recurring menorrhagia,