631 MORBID ANATOMY. tainecl ovum, there are often occasional, slight hemorrha- gies, as in some of the above cases, and pregnancy, that had been supposed to exist, comes to be questioned ; and so the case may go on for months. 2933. A blighted foetus, 7f in. long, and weighing 3£ oz. The surface was tattered, and it had the usual flattened and macerated look; the vessels in the cord being no larger than the smallest sewing thread, and looking as if no blood had passed through them for a long time ; and yet, as usual in such cases, there was no sign of decomposition. The inner surface of the amnion was roughened by a pasty or crumbling deposit. From a case of twins, — the other child weighing 12 lbs. When the mother was four and a half months pregnant, she had a diarrhoea for twenty days, but was well from that time. 1861. Dr. D. H. Storer. 2934. A foetus, 3£ in. in length, and having the flattened, bloodless look above referred to. The different parts are sufficiently distinct, but confused by a very delicate mem- brane, that partly and immediately invests the surface. The whole is quite soft; and, the surface being broken near the umbilicus, there was seen a trace of the deep- yellow discoloration that is so common in blighted foetuses (kirronosis, of Lobstein). One child was born at the full period; and, after the placenta came away, the second foetus was found in the vagina, and enclosed in its mem- branes. These last were collapsed ; and the placenta was thin, compact, granulated, and bloodless. 1852. Dr. E. D. G. Palmer. 2935. A foetus, about -f in. long, and about as much developed as at the seventh or eighth week. The last menstrual pe- riod ended Jan. 23d; symptoms of pregnancy followed, and abortion took place on the 20th of April, 1863. Dr. J. G. Blake. 2936. A foetus, about as large as at the fifth or sixth week, and apparently blighted. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 2937. A foetus, quite plump, but less than 1J in. in length. At the fourth month, as was supposed, the breasts became