482 MORBID ANATOMY. considerable force, that a little air could be made to pass through ; nor was this last result obtained subsequently. The intestine having been inverted, there was found, at or just above the stricture, a well-defined, somewhat deep ul- cer, not more than one-fourth of an inch in width, and not at all remarkable in its character, but involving the entire circumference of the intestine. Otherwise the dilated in- testine was quite health}'', though the muscular coat was much hypertrophied. The other organs were also healthy, excepting the uterus, which contained two fibrous tumors, that were felt during life through the vagina. From a woman, set. thirty-four years, previously healthy, and who died on the 22d of November. In April she had an attack of obstinate constipation, pain in the abdomen, and vomiting ; relieved by cathartics. In June a similar attack. During the last week of July a still more severe attack, and from that time she was never relieved. Hard- ened scybalse were occasionally brought away by active cathartics and enemata; but for some weeks before death these last only were used, and for the last seventeen days nothing whatever passed the bowels. The abdomen was very greatly distencjed, and generally very tense ; portions of the intestine sometimes feeling like solid tumors, and in a few moments relaxing under the hand, as the muscular spasm yielded. Vomiting was an urgent symptom. 1857. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. The above case was published in the Med. Jour. (Vol. lv. p. 448), with a brief analysis of five other and similar cases that I have met with. 2302. A portion of the ileum, about 3 feet above the valve, • very greatly contracted, and to the extent of about 2 in. Inner surface for the most part superficially ulcerated ; but without thickening of the parietes, or any appearance of malignant disease. The intestine above was much dilated, and somewhat ulcerated ; but otherwise healthy, as it was below the seat of disease. Three or four feet higher up, also, the intestine was contracted ; and again in the duo- denum, 2 in. below the pylorus. From a patient of Dr. Stone, Jr., of Walpole; set. fifty-