MORBID ANATOMY. 263 ease, implies a general feebleness of the constitution, and calls rather for amputation than excision. Dr. Hodges has remarked upon the reproduced condyles in this case, in his monograph on Excision of the Joints (p. 71), and he has copied for the Museum, a drawing of one of Mr. Syme’s cases (London Lancet, March 3d, 1855), in which a somewhat similar formation was observed. Dr. B. states, in his published account of the above case, that the patient died of phthisis about a year after the amputation ; there having been indications of the disease before the operation, and the disease of the arm not having- been arrested by it. 1859. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 1402. Bony anchylosis of the elbow-joint. From a woman, mt. twenty-eight years. (Hospital, 119, 74.) Abscess about the joint, with caries, in June, ’62 ; resulting in anchylosis. In Nov., ’62, necrosis of forearm. Limb quite useless from that time ; very painful, and anckylosed at a little more than a right angle. Amputation above the condyles in Jan., ’64. Bones prepared by Mr. C. B. Porter, one of the house- pupils. Humerus and radius well, excepting the anchylosis. Ul- na bent rather abruptly forward, and anchylosed to front of inner condyle. Olecranon seems to have been detached at some former period from the rest of the bone, and sub- sequently anchylosed to the humerus just below the fossa. The ulna also shows, almost throughout, appearances of clnonic inflammation, though none of caries or necrosis. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. 1403. A second specimen, and probably the result of former inflammation confined to the jpint. Bones bent to a ri°-kt angle. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1404. A third specimen; and probably from the same cause. Section through the humerus and ulna, and one-half is shown. 1847. Z>r. J. O. Warren. 1405. Lower portion of the bones of the forearm anchylosed to a small extent, and to a very irregular piece of bone, which is of considerable size, and must be the remains of a diseased carpus. Structure of the diseased portions light and porous. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren.