MORBID ANATOMY. 299 The specimens here shown were from a man forty years of age, who had had severe pains in various parts of his body for several months, and that could never be explained. Gradually lost flesh, and died after a week’s sickness of acute pneumonia. (See Med. Jour. ,Vol. lxvi. p. 67.) 1863- Dr. C. Ellis. 1515. The upper seven inches of the femur removed at the hip- joint. A dried specimen. The patient was thirty-one years of age, and entered the hospital May 29th, 1868 (138, 35). Two }rears previously the thigh had been amputated for “ osteo-sarcoma ” of the leg. About five months before entrance the stump began to discharge and to feel heavy; and, on admission, the whole end formed a very large and hard tumor, that became smaller above, but seemed to involve the bone as far as the joint. The end was covered with small, red, rounded granulations, and feeling like bone covered by a very thin pellicle of skin. Health rather poor for the last three months. On the 2d of June the operation was performed ; and, a tourniquet having been applied over the abdominal aorta, there was but little hemorrhage. Forty-eight ves- sels were tied, and .the flaps required twenty-six sutures. August 1st he was doing well and left the hospital. After that time he improved rapidly, but in Nov. the cicatrix began to be troublesome, and in February the disease had evidently returned. In Dec., 1869, however, his brother states that he is in a fine state of general health, and with- out much, if any, increase of the local disease for some time. On section, the morbid growth is seen to be of a rounded, mushroon-like form, and -completely surrounds and over- hangs the end of the bone; regular and comparatively smooth upon the surface, excepting the granulations at the extiemity, but somewhat laminated, as appears upon sec- tion, and exceedingly irregular where it looks toward the head of the bone. In structure, it consists almost entirely of a piett} compact bone. The disease extends along the surface of the bone to within about an inch of the intertro- chanteric line, in one direction ; and the bone itself, where not involved, looks quite healthy. 1868. Dr. II. M. Hodges.