518 MORBID ANATOMY. was thought, from an affection of the liver; the kidneys not having been suspected. (Aruer. Jour, of Med. Sc. April, 1854.) 1854. Dr. E. Leigh, of Townsend. 2454. A kidney, consisting of a collection of cysts, from £ in. to more than an inch in diameter. It is between 4 and 5 in. in length, very irregular in its outline, much shrunken ; and, though not cut open, feels as if there might be a great deal of tough fibrous tissue with the cysts. The parietes of a number of the cysts in the recent state were quite stiff, like parchment, and some portions were com- pletely ossified ; of a bluish color externally, and con- tained, apparently, a thin serous fluid. From a little girl, set. twelve years, who had always been sickly, but without any urinary symptoms. — For the other kidney see No. 2476. (Med. Jour. Vol. liv. p. 402.) 1856. Dr. C. D. Homans. Cruveilhier has figured a very similar specimen (Anat. Path. liv. 6, pi. 4.), and regarded the disease as con- genital. 2455. An encysted kidney, from a monstrosity (No. 846) ; pre- served entire, and perfectly resembled, externally, the other, which was fully examined. This last weighed 6 oz., was deeply lobulated upon the surface, though no investing membrane could be detached, and contained throughout immense numbers of cysts, about one-half of a line in di- ameter. The ureter consisted of a whitish, condensed, impervious cord, not a line in diameter; and the pelvis was merely an enlargement of the same tissue. Internally no trace of the natural structure of the organ was visible to the naked eye. The following microscopical examina- tion was made by Dr. Jeffries Wyman: “ Ihere weie only traces of the natural structure of the kidney. A few uriniferous tubes, with their epithelial linings, were seen, but no unequivocal Malpighian bodies, though there were some rounded masses covered by a capsule that might have been such. No connection was traced between the cysts and the uriniferous tubes. The contents of the cysts con- sisted of a transparent fluid, in which were floating numer- ous rounded cells, with a central nucleus similar to those