MORBID ANATOMY. 488 One of the balls is of a compressed, spherical form, in. in diameter, and If in. thick. The other is If in. long, and of rather an oval form. The structure, upon the sur- face at least, is loose, and not glazed as it usually is in older animals. 1868. Mr. S. L. Moore, med. student. 2317. Hair-ball, from the stomach of a hog. A portion of it seems to have been sliced off; but, otherwise, it would be of a regular form, 5 in. in length, and 3f in. in diameter. The mass consists of bristles, with very little else; and it is very compact. Internally they are irregularly matted together ; but externally they are very regularly arranged, — being parted to the right and left, as the hair often is upon the back of the head. Mr. L. was told that the animal was one of a drove of ten, that ate well, but continued lean: and, on being slaughtered, a hair-ball was found in the stomach of each; the specimen here shown being the largest of them. 1857. Mr. Thos. W. Leach, med. student. 2318. The gizzard of a pigeon transfixed by a pin, and with- out anything to show that it had troubled the bird. (See No. 2175.) 1857. Dr. 0. W. Holmes. See biliary calculi. 2319. A small portion of very pure ambergris. The lot, from which this was selected, weighed about 50 lbs., and was taken from the intestine of a sperm whale; the animal be- ing in sufficiently good condition. The quality of the mass varied as to purity; there being many teeth of the squid mixed with it, and one of them is here shown. 1865. Mr. Heman Smith, merchant. 2320. Fat, discharged from the bowels of a man, set. forty-five, who had “cholerine” in England twenty years ago, and had been passing ever since, and several times daily, a greenish-yellow, oily, and very offensive fluid, that after a while became hard, like tallow. He was pale, but had a fair amount of flesh and strength, and a good appetite. Leo's cedematous, but without albumen in the urine. Al- kalies tried for a week or two, but without effect. 1868. Dr. Henry K. Oliver.