193 MORBID ANATOMY. 1097. An eighth specimen. Upper part of the femur; in • spirit. Old fracture, with complete absorption of the neck. Head somewhat reduced in size; cartilage exten- sively absorbed, with appearances as of old cellular adhe- sions; fractured surface covered by a thin membranous pellicle, and connected with the shaft by strong fibrous bands, that are long enough to allow of very free motion. From a woman, ret. eighty-two years, who fell whilst walking, in February, 1852, and died in the summer of 1857. The limb shortened immediately; and Dr. TV. thinks, to the amount of about 2 in.; remaining in what- ever position it was placed. Very little pain ; and three months after the accident she was able to move about on crutches. 1858. Dr. Jonathan Ware, of Milton. 1098. A ninth specimen. There is a close and firm ligamentary union; and the specimen has been ingeniously prepared, and handsomely mounted by Dr. Beach, so as to leave the fragments in connection, and yet show the motion that there is between them. The capsular ligament has been turned back ; and in it are two or three pieces of bone, of considerable size, that may have been the result of arthri- tis. Nothing is known of the history of the case; but with such a limb the patient may have got about tolerably weiL 1869* Dr. R. M. Hodges. ' 1()99. A tenth specimen. Fragments separated by maceration. The neck of the bone has been entirely absorbed, and the head rested and probably moved freely upon the shaft as far down as the small trochanter; there having been no attempt at union. The articular surface was somewhat eburnated, but mainly covered with a tissue that looked not very unlike cartilage, though the microscope showed it to be only a condensed fibrous substance. At the time of the dissection, a hollow was observed among the muscles above the femur, and into which this bone would crowd when the patient walked. From a man, over sixty years of age, and who, eleven yeais befoie liis death, was crushed down by a very lar«e and heavy weight, that fell directly upon him. There was. 13