Ordinary Braising. 205 gentle and regular boiling are necessary to give the broth all the desired qualities.” •> Ordinary Braising. J ulcs Gouffe’s instructions for Bceuf a la Mode, referred to, p. 82. “Take about 41bs. (2 kilos) of thick beef-steak cut square. Take nearly f lb. (3 hectos) of fat bacon, cut off the rind which should be put aside to blanch,+ and then cut the bacon in strips for larding, about one-third of an inch square, and sprinkle them with pepper. Lard the meat and tie it up, as for the pot-au-feu. Place the piece of meat in a stew-pan with rather less than a pint of white wine, a wine-glass of brandy, a pint of stock, a pint of water ; two calves’ feet already boned and blanched, and the rind of the bacon also blanched. Put it on the fire, adding a little less than 1 oz. of salt (30 grammes). Make it boil, and skim it as for a pot-au-feu ; next, having skimmed it, add fully lib. (500 grammes) of carrots, one onion, three cloves, one faggot of herbs, and two pinches of pepper. Place the stew-pan on the corner of the stove, cover it, and allow it to simmer very gently, for four hours and a-half. Try the meat with a skewer to ascer- tain when it is sufficiently cooked ; then put it on a dish with the carrots and the calves’ feet, and keep them covered up hot until serving. Next, strain the gravy through a fine tammy; remove carefully every atom of grease, and reduce it over the fire about a quarter. Lastly, untie the beef, place it on the dish for serving ; add the calves’ feet, each having been cut in eight pieces, the carrots cut into pieces the size of a cork, and ten glazed onions. Arrange the calves’ feet, carrots and onions round the beef, pour the sauce over the meat, * Alexandre Dumas, Grand Dictionnaire de Cuisine. Paris, 1873, pp. 867-70, art. Potage. + To “ blanch ” is simply plunging, either vegetable or meat, as the case may be, into boiling water for a minute or two, to remove acrid matters in the first case, and to aid cleansing in the second. To “ refresh,” is to dip them into cold water immediately afterwards for a. minute or two*