124 Food and Feeding. o It should be stated that this estimate has been based solely on the leading and most important facts afforded by a chemical analysis, without reference to other considerations of minor importance referred to below.* * I tliink it must be admitted that while, as a general rule, the nutritive value of food is to be determined by the presence in it of certain chemical elements, harmoniously adjusted to the composition of the body to be nourished, yet there are some restorative qualities contained in animal flesh, which, although not at present fully appreciated by chemical analysis, have a value of no mean order, demonstrative chiefly by empirical observation. The invigorating effect of a small quantity of beef-tea, in a person suffering from inanition, may be cited in illustration ; the solid matter resulting from its evaporation being insignificant in quantity when compared with the support afforded. Now the product obtained by dealing with fish, in the same manner as we treat beef in order to obtain “ beef-tea,” is greatly inferior in this restorative quality, although the solids present are larger in quantity in “fish-tea” than in that of meat, being chiefly gelatine. I have had the following experiments performed in the most accurate manner, which will show in part the nature of the chemical difference. One pound of rumpsteak, one pound of turbot, each without skiu and bone, the former freed from fat, were thus separately treated. The flesh was passed tv-ice through a sausage-machine, and sufficient cold water to cover (one pint) was added. After standing one hour, the mass was heated to boiling point, and allowed to simmer ten minutes, then strained through calico, and the contents of the strainer washed with water : a little floating fat was removed (in the case of the beef). Each of the liquids was evaporated on a water bath to the consistence of a soft extract. Beef-prrdud. Weight of extract, 276 grains or 3'91 percent. In this product 5 per cent, of gelatine was present. Fish-product. Weight of extract, 396 grains or 5'6 per cent. In this product the gelatine amounted to 21 '8 per cent.