211 Origin of Childrens Dinner 7'ables. “A list of these, and full information on all points connected with the establishment of this ‘ Children’s Dinner Table,’ may be obtained by those willing to co-operate, on application to Mrs. Eyre, 20, Upper Wimpole Street ; or Mrs. Henry Thompson, Treasurer, 35, Wimpole Street ; or Mrs. H. G. Wright, Secretary, 23, Somerset Street, Portman Square. Subscriptions may be paid to the Bankers, Sir S. Scott & Co., 1, Cavendish Square. Tickets may be had at Thomas & Co.’s Stationery Warehouse, 21, Great Marylebone Street. “August, 1806.” The scheme was well supported b}r friends and neigh- bours, and came into operation early in October. Her first report thereon (also now before me), dated November of that year, and therefore when the plan had been tried only six weeks, shows that the dinners had been pro- vided “every Wednesday and Saturday at 12 o’clock. The room accommodates 60 children : at present (Novem- ber, 1886) the largest attendance has been 44-.” And it goes on to say that “ a dinner can be sent to a child too ill to attend, if the messenger applies at the room before nine in the morning,” &c.,—a further development of the original plan. This was the first public children’s free dinner-table provided in this country. Victor Hugo was delighted with this endeavour to realise his idea in London, and Avrote to the pioneer of his views here earnestly and encouragingly to persevere in her work. From that time to the present day, this institution has continued under the same management, and has been very popular and well supported, so that its funds and operations have been largely increased. A kitchen open daily for good and cheap soup has been associated with it. Within a few months after the date named, autumn, 1866, other such public tables were instituted, the next being, I believe, that of the Baroness Meyer de Rothschild. The object of the present Marylebone dinner is still the original one, viz. to supply a full meal of hot meat and vegetables twice a week, for those whose food is habitually scanty and not sufficiently nutritious. Hence, no attempt has been made in' connection with it to provide a cheap or “penny dinner table,” especially