147 CAKES. the company, which depends much on its character. Even a very high party, primed with all the cold irony and non est tanti feelings, or no feelings, of fashionable folks, may be stormed by a jovial, rough, round, and ready president. Choose your text with discretion, the sermon may be as you like. Should a drunkard or an ass break in with anything out of joint, if you can parry it with a jest good, and well; if not, do not exert your serious authority, unless it is something very bad. The authority even of a chairman ought to be very cautiously exercised. With patience you will have the support of every one. 3rd. When you have drunk a few glasses to play the good fellow and banish modesty (if you are unlucky enough to have such a troublesome companion), then beware of the cup too much. Nothing is so ridiculous as a drunken president. Lastly. Always speak short, and sJceoch dock na slciel—cut a tale with a drink. “ This is the purpose and intent Of gude Schir Walter’s testament.”—Walter Scott. A Modern Dinner.—On a late occasion Prince Napoleon gave at Paris a grand dinner, at which several dishes were Chinese, some of the wine drank was from Siam (having been sent by the King of that country to the Prince), and one of the guests was a Chinese mandarin. Among the dishes were swallow’s-nest, cooked in the Nankin mode; fins of a shark, fried ; oluthuries a la mandarine; the interior of a sturgeon, a la bocto genaire, aux rondellcs de bauboux; oluthuries in salad, with pheasant jelly; rice, des immortels; fowls, with Japanese curry; spinach, with balichno, such as was esteemed at Rome under Augustus; rice in the Chinese fashion; ordinary India curry.—Hints for the Table. LVI.-CAKES. Dost thou think, because thou art virtuous, there shall be no more cakes and ale ?— Sir Toby Belch, in “ Twelfth Night." Twelfth Cake.—The ingredients of a fair-sized cake may be :—Two pounds of flour, two pounds of white sugar, two pounds of butter, eighteen eggs, four pounds of currants, washed and cleaned, half a pound of almonds, blanched and cut into pieces, one pound of candied orange and lemon-peel, half a pound of citron, half a nutmeg, grated, half an ounce of mixed spice, and a gill of brandy. Put the butter into a stewpan, and work it smooth with a wooden spatula, and mix it, with the sugar and spice, in a pan for a time. Then break in the eggs by degrees, and beat the mixture; stir in the brandy, and then the flour, and work it a little; add the fruit, sweetmeats, and almonds, and mix all lightly together. Put it in a hoop, and bake on a baking-tin for four hours. When nearly cold, ice it. Bride or Wedding Cake : made in a similar way, with a pound of raisins. In Yorkshire and other parts of England the bride cake is cut into little square pieces, thrown over the bride and bridegroom’s head, then put through the ring nine times, and afterwards laid under the pillows at night to causo young persons to dream of their lovers. The custom of introducing cake after a rich entertainment is very ancient; but the cakes or muslacca of the Romans were very different compositions. K 2