21G MINCEMEAT.—LEMON-JUICE. but as the repartee began to sparkle, and tbe anecdote to circulate, his assumed cau. tion was insensibly relaxed, he gradually gave way to temptation, and commonly ended by eating of everything, and taking wine with everybody—the very bnu.vAd.nal of an Amphitryon.—Quarterly Review. XC' I—MINCEMEAT A LA SOYER. Evans: I will make an end of my dinner; there is pippins and cheese to come. Merry Wives of Windsor. Take four pounds and a half of beef suet, which skin and chop very fine ; have also a quarter of a pound of candied lemon and orange-peel, the same of citron, a pound and a half of lean cooked beef, and three pounds and a half of apples, cored and peeled, and chopped fine, and put into a large pan, with four pounds and a half of currants, well washed and picked, two ounces of mixed spice, and two pounds of moist sugar. Mix the whole well together, with the juice of eight lemons, and a pint of brandy ; place it in jars, and tie down for use. A pound and a half of raisins, well stoned and chopped, may be added to the above. American Mincemeat.—Take pieces of vegetables and cold meat; mash the vege- tables, and chop the meat fine. Warm it with gravy or dripping. Fry, and slice a few apples, and mix with it, with a little sage. After it has been sufficiently warmed, lay it on slices of toasted bread, and serve. Monastic Living.—The kitchen and feasting at the Monastery of Alcobaca is thus described by Mr. Beckford:—The kitchen was magnificent; through the centre of the immense and groined hall, not less than sixty feet in diameter, ran a brisk rivulet of the clearest water, flowing through pierced wooden reservoirs, containing every sort and size of the finest river fish. On one side loads of grain and venison were heaped up,, on the other vegetables and fruits in endless variety. Beyond a long line of stoves ex- tended a row of ovens, and close to them hillocks of wheaten flour, whiter than snow, rocks of sugar, jars of the purest oil, and pastry in vast abundance, which a numerous tribe of lay brothers and their attendants were rolling out and puffing up into a hundred different shapes, singing all the while as blithely as larks in a cornfield. The banquet is described as including exquisite sausages, potted lampreys, strange matters from the Brazils, and others still more strange from China (viz., birds’ nests and sharks’ fins), dres'sed after the latest mode of Macao, by a Chinese lay brother. Confectionery and fruits were out of the question here; they awaited the party in an adjoining still more sumptuous and spacious saloon, to which they retired from the effluvia of viands and sauces. On another occasion, by the aid of Mr. Beckford’s cook, the party sat down to one of the most delicious banquets ever vouchsafed a mortal on this side of Mahomet’s paradise. The macedoine was perfection, the ortolans and quail lumps of celestial- fatness, the sautis and bSchamels beyond praise, and a certain truffle cream wa3 so exquisite that the Lord Abbot personally gave thanks for it. XCIII-LEMON-JUICE. Among the minor causes, no doubt, excess in eating and drinking has a great effect in multiplying cases of indigestion, which effect is augmented by the inferior and base quality of many articles of diet in general consumption, such as bakers’ bread and brewers’ beer. • It is not many years since it was as common for families to make their own bread, and brew their own beer, as it is now to have these articles from the trades- man. My readers will -perceive that I do not wish to represent these changes ns principal causes of the present malady, but they are causes, and probably have greater effect than is commonly supposed. It must be recollected that these are articles of daily consumption, and therefore, if injurious, their deleterious operation, although in the beginning silent, yet is sure, and annually increasing.—Graham on Indigestion. Cut off the peel of the lemons, and squeeze them until all the juice is out into a basin ; then strain it through muslin. Have ready dry