DRINKS. 277 eight table-spoonfuls of the essence of spruce, and on its cooling put to it about half a piut of yeast. Let it work, and just before it has done working bottle in stone bottles, lire’s recipe is somewhat different:— Essence of spruce, half a pint; pimento and ginger, bruised, each, four ounces; hops, from four to five ounces; water, three gallons. Boil for ten minutes; then strain, and add eleven gallons of warm water, a pint of yeast, and six pints of molasses. Mix, and allow it to ferment for twenty hours. Lemonade an Lait.—Take half a pint of lemon-juice, the same quantity of white wine, three-quarters of a pound of white sugar, and a quart of boiling water; mix, and when cold add a pint of boiling milk. Let it stand twelve hours ; then pour through a jelly-bag. This will make two quarts. Pomona wine is made in America by adding one gallon of brandy to six of cider, after it is racked off. Baspberry Vinegar.—Put a pound of fruit into a bowl, pour upon it a quart of the best white wine vinegar ; next day strain the juice on a pound of fresh raspberries, and the following day do the same. Bottle and cork well. Apricot Drink.—Take a pint of apricot juice, and add half a pound of sugar, then add an ounce of tartaric acid. Bottle and cork for use. Use it with water and a small quantity of carbonate of soda. Peaches and any ripe fruit may be used in a similar way. Gin Punch.—Pour half a pint of gin on the outer peel of a lemon, then a little lemon-juice, sugar, a glass of maraschino, about a pint and a quarter of water, and two bottles of iced soda-water. The result will be three pints of punch. “The Art of Dining” says that the gin punch made on the above principle at the Garrick Club was one of the best things known, and that it was a favourite beverage of the late Theodore Hook; while Basil Hall has it that good whisky punch ia the most insinuating and the most loving of tipples. If another authority is wanted, Burke, on one occasion, spiritually exclaimed, “Ifur one stand up for gin.” Lamb's Wool.—In days of yore this was a favourite liquor with common people, an 1 was composed of roasted apples and ale ; the pulp of the apples worked up with the ale till the mixture formed a smooth beverage, with the addition of sugar and spice. Now crown the bowle With gentle lamb’s-wooll; Add sugar, and nutmegs, and ginger.—Herrick. Cool Tankard.—Put to a quart of mild ale a wine-glassful of white wine, the same of brandy and capillaire, the juice of a lemon, and some of the rind. Add a spiig of balm or borage, some toasted bread, and nutmeg grated on the top. Borage is said to impart coolness to thi9 drink. Borage is one of the four cordial flowers. “ It comforts the heart, cheers melancholy, and revives the fainting spirits,” says Salmon, in his “Household Companion,” 1710.