HOME-MADE WINES AND CORDIALS. 131 Grape Wine.—Take any given quantity of ripe grapes, macerate and strain them, add two gallons of water to one gallon of juice, and three pounds and a half of loaf sugar. Let it ferment for six weeks. Clear it with white of eggs or isinglass, and barrel it. Some brandy must be added; a little crude tartar is an improvement. Elder Wine.—Pick and shred twenty-four pounds of raisins, and cover them with three gallons of boiling water, stir the liquor every day, and add three pints of elderberry juice and one pound of sugar. Let it ferment its usual time, then close the cask, and bottle. Elderberry wine may be made from the berries alone, with a proportionate quantity of sugar and brandy. Elderberry Wine (.Another Mode).—To six gallons of berries add seven of water, and a quarter of a pound of allspice, two ounces of ginger, and a few cloves. Boil for half an hour, squeeze the berries through a sieve, adding to every gallon three pounds and a half of sugar. This quantity will about fill a nine-gallon cask. The sugar being added, boil until the liquor becomes pretty clear, taking off the scum. Put it into the cask, and remove it to a cool place; when it becomes lukewarm, ferment it by toasted bread being dipped in thick yeast. When the fermentation has subsided, bung up the cask ; it will be fit to drink in three months, and will keep for years. Cherry Wine.—Pound morella cherries in a mortar, and let them be be in a cool place for twenty-four hours. Press the pulp through a fine tin strainer, and to every quart of juice add a pound of loaf sugar. Allow it to ferment the proper time, and add a little brandy. Easpberry Wine.—To every quart of raspberries put the same quan- tity of water, bruise, and let them stand two days; strain off the liquor, and to every gallon put three pounds of loaf sugar. Put the liquor in a cask, and, when ready to bottle, add a table-spoonful of good brandy to each bottle. Easpberry anil Curranfi Wine.—Bruise three pints of fruit, and add one quart of water ; let it stand, and after twenty-four hours strain the liquor, and put to every quart a pound of the best sugar. It will work of its own accord. Pu, a bottle of brandy to every five gallons ; keep it for a time and bottle it. Pink Champagne.—Dissolve nine pounds of loaf sugar over the fire in three gallons of water, remove the scum. Have ready picked a gallon of red and white currants, and pour over them the boiling liquor. Let it stand until cool, then add a tea-cupful of yeast; allow it to ferment for two days, then put it in a cask, and add some isinglass or white of egg to clear. Bung up the cask, but don’t do this too soon, or there will be an explosion. When ready for bottling add a small lump of sugar to each bottle. The Earl of Derby and the Wine Merchant.—A forward and pushing wine merchant, on a late occasion, sent a sample of his wine to the Earl of Derby, stating at J 2