DRINKS. 272 ** I caima say that I dirma like whisky toddy,” said, the doctor, mights it’s mae so had.”—Charles O’Malley. “In the canid Klim Shrub : bitter almonds, cloves, cassia, and the peel of oranges, infused in the best rum, with the addition of a thread of ambergris and vanilla. Good shrub is very delicious, and were it fashionable it would obtain rank as a liqueur. Sack Posset.— From fam’d Barbadoes on the western main Fetch sugar ouuces four ; fetch sack from Spain A pint; and from the Eastern Indian coast Nutmeg, the glory of our northern toast. O’er flaming coals let them together heat, Till the all-conquering sack dissolves the sweet; O’er such another fire put eggs ten, New born, from tread of cock and rump of hen. Stir them with steady hand and conscience pricking To see the untimely fate of ten fine chicken; From shining shelf take down the brazen skillet, A quart of milk from gentle cow will fill it. When boiled and cold, put milk and sack to eggs, Unite then firmly like the triple league, And on the fire let them together dwell Till Miss sing twice, “ You must not kiss and tell.” Each lad and lass take up a silver spoon, And fall on fiercely like a starved dragoon. —Sir Fleetwood Shepherd. Posset was a drink composed of hot milk, curdled hy strong infusion, which was much in favour by our ancestors, both as a luxury and medicine. All the guards that attended the King in Macbeth seem to have had their possets; for Macbeth says, “ I have drugged their possets.” In Fletcher’s “Scornful Lady” two of the characters take a posset on the stage before they retire to rest. The sack posset was a treat usually prepared for a bridegroom. In came the bridemaids with the posset The bridegroom eat in spight.—Suckling. Dryden mentions a “pepper posset;” Dr. John Floyer, a posset in which althca, (marshmallow) roots are boiled ; and Dr. Arbuthnot orders gruel and posset drinks to increase the milk. Our nearest approach to the old posset is whey—or milk curdled •with wine or acid—and treacle posset.—Things Not Generally Known. To improve British brandy, put eight French plums into every pint of spirits. Steep ten days, then strain, and it will have much of the flavour of French brandy. Orgeat.—Orgeat is a drink made from almonds as follows:—Take a pound and a quarter of bitter almonds, and half a pound of sweet almonds, which have been blanched, nine pounds of loaf sugar, six pints of water, and the rinds of three lemons. Pound the almonds in a mortar with the sugar, and add the water a little by degrees; then put the mixture on the fire with the lemon-peel. After a boil pour off the syrup and press the almonds, to extract the milk ; add this to the syrup, and strain the whole through a sieve. When cold add a little orange-