COOKERY FOR THE DESTITUTE. 213 wasted by improvident cuisine would support twice the number of Great Britain’s population; and, in this case, we should hear of no cases of starvation in the mother country. In the Australias, among the in- dustrious classes, meat three times a day is a matter of course, besides butter ad libitum. In the earlier days of the colonies, with all classes, “tea, mutton, and damper” was the universal fare, damper being nothing more than flour and water, with a little salt, smothered in wood ashes until done. There is an alteration in Colonial cookery for the better, and great room for further improvement. Cheap Cookery.—There is something much more practical and promising in Mr. Corbett’s recent establishment of cheap cooking-houses in Glasgow. His a>m is to provide the food commonly in use among the working classes, cooked in a simple but efficient manner, and sold at the lowest rate compatible with a distinct profit on the articles prepared. Thirteen of these houses have been already fitted up, and are now in operation in Glasgow, and thus far they have succeeded singularly well. A breakfast of porridge, milk, coffee, and roll, with butter, may be had for threepence; separate rations of soup, potatoes, bread-and-butter, or bread-and-cheese, coffee, tea, porridge, eggs, &c., may be obtained any hour during the day for one penny. At the chief branches a fourpenny halfpenny dinner is served, comprising a basin of broth, a plate of meat (either hot or cold), an ample supply of potatoes, and a slice of capital plum pudding. The houses are plainly, but neatly fitted up, and have a very cheerful aspect. They are inundated with customers; and ulti- mately they must exercise a most important and favourable influence upon the domestic management of the operatives who frequent them. The economical advantages must be very great. The men will there learn, and that in the most pleasant fashion, the advantage, both to the pocket and palate, of properly cooked food. They will also learn what rightly prepared food is. The women will be taught the need of becom- ing acquainted with the modes of concocting such palatable food, if they would maintain their domestic power. If at first they may seem to weaken the home tie, in the end they will strengthen it. If the husband prefers his meal at the eating-house, to the neglect of his wife and family, it will be for .he wife to show that he may have more comfortable, as well as well-cooked and as cheap, food at home. This is practicable, if women will learn how. When women have fully mastered the lesson— one, by the way, of wider application than to operatives only—a step in civilisation will have been gained, which will show in increased health, increased prosperjty, and happier domestic hearths. Let us hope, then, that Mr. Corbett’s successful experiment in Glasgow will find many imitators elsewhere.—“ The Lancet ” on Culinary Civilisation. Glasgow appears to bo taking the lead in cheap and good dinner and refreshment establishments. In addition to Mr. Corbett’s great cooking depot for tbe working classes, which now shows grosn receipts to the amount of 1135.000 per annum, there is a luncheon-roorn, of a unique kind. Persons unacquainted with Langs', would pass it by as a mere confectioner’s shop ; but the initiated know better : they know it as one of the best-regulated refreshment places in Europe; in fact, it is without a parallel, and