253 HEBREW REFECTION. of four eggs, and the juice of a lemon ; serve the fowl in the same dish, with the rice, which should be coloured to a fine yellow with saffron. Fowls Stewed with Eice and Chorissa,—Boil a fowl in sufficient water or gravy to cover it. When boiling for ten minutes, skim off the fat. and add half a pound of rice and one pound of chorissa cut in about four pieces ; season with a litt'e white pepper, salt, and a pinch of saffron to colour it, and then stew till the rice is thoroughly tender. There should be no gravy when served, but the rice should be perfectly moist. Chicken Pudding.—Line a basin with a good beef suet paste, and fill it with chicken prepared in the following manner:—Cut up a chicken, lightly fry the pieces, then place them iu a stewpan, with thin slices of chorissa, or, if at hand, slices of smoked veal. Add enough good beef gravy to cover them, season with mushroom essence or powder, pepper, ■salt, and a very small quantity of nutmeg and mace. Simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, .and fill the pudding. Pour over part of the gravy, and keep the rest to be poured over the pudding when served in the dish. The pudding, when filled, must be covered closely with the paste, the end of which should be wetted with a paste-brush, to make it adhere closely. Spiced Beef.-'-Take a fine thick piece of brisket of beef, not fat; let it lay three days in pickle, take it out and rub in a mixture of spices, con- sisting of equal quantities of ground allspice, black pepper, cloves, ginger, and nutmegs, and a little brown sugar. Repeat this daily for a week, then cover it with pounded dry sweet herbs, roll or tie it tightly, put it into a pan with a little water, and bake slowly for eight hours ; then take it out, untie it, and put a heavy weight upon it. This is a fine relish, when eaten cold. A White Fricaudeau of Teal.—Take four or five pounds of breast of veal, or fillet from the shoulder; stuff it with a fine-flavoured veal stuffing, and put it into a stewpan, with water sufficient to cover it; a call’s foot cut in pieces is sometimes added. Season with one onion, a blade of mace, white pepper and salt, and a sprig of parsley. Stew the whole gently until the meat is quite tender, then skim and strain the gravy, and stir in the beaten yolks of four eggs and the juice of two lemons, previously m'xed smoothly with a portion of the gravy. Button •mushrooms or pieces of celery, stewed with the veal, are sometimes added by way of varying the flavour. Egg and forcemeat balls garnish the dish. When required to look elegant it should be pique. Descaides.—Take the livers of chickens or any other poultry ; stew them gently in a little good gravy, seasoned with a little onion, mushroom essence, pepper and salt. When tender remove the livers, place them on a pasteboard, and mince them ; return them to the saucepan, and stir in the yolks of one or two eggs, according to the quantity of liver, until the gravy becomes thick. Have a round of toast ready on a hot plate, and serve it on the toast. This is a very nice luucheon or supper dish. Potato Shavings.—Take four fine large potatoes, and having peeled