PUDDINGS AND PIES. 52 I pound of currants washed and picked ; one pound of beef suet, freed from skin and finely chopped; eight ounces of bread crumbs, sifted through a colander; two ounces of flour ; half a pound of moist sugar, good brown ; six eggs, well whisked ; half an ounce of candied lemon ; half an ounce of candied orange ; the peel of one lemon, chopped fine ; the juice of half a lemon ; a nutmeg, grated; a thimbleful of salt; a wine-glass of brandy. Mix the whole thoroughly together, and have ready a well-buttered mould or basin; pack in, place over it a dusting of flour, and tie down with a buttered paper and strong cloth, and boil gently for six hours.—Cassell's Illustrated Family Paper. Brown and Poison’s Souffle Pudding.—Put six ounces of Brown and Poison’s patent corn-flour into a stewpan, with six ounces of best white sugar, and mix well with a quart of milk, and four ounces of fresh butter, a pinch of salt, and a few drops of essence of vanilla or lemon ; stir it well until it boils. Then work in the yolks of six eggs ; and the whites, whisked into a froth, are to be lightly incorporated with the butter; pour into a buttered pie-dish, and bake in a moderately heated oven for half an hour; sugar the top, and serve when risen. Souffles must be served as soon as done, or otherwise their goodness evaporates. Petits Puits d’Amour.—Take puff paste and roll it out about half an inch thick ; stamp out what will be used, work it up again and roll it the same thickness; then stamp out smaller pieces to correspond with the larger ones; stamp out the centre of the smaller rings; brush over the others with white of an egg ; place a small ring on the top of every large circular piece of paste ; egg over the tops ; and bake sharp for less than a quarter of an hour. Sift sugar over them, and put them back in the oven to colour, then fill in the rings with preserves; dish them up and serve. French pastry is made into a thousand different shapes, all de- pending on the confectioner’s taste and ingenuity. Petits Puits d’Amouu garnis des Confitures.—A classical and well-known dish for part of the flank of a second course.—Notes to “’Lon Juan.” Pastry is digested with difficulty, in consequence of the oil which it contains; puddings from their heaviness, that is, closeness of texture. In proportion as they are light, they become digestible.—Mayo. The simple cure for their heaviness is to make them with Jones’s patent flour. Pancakes.—More than one author has said that the man, woman, or child was unknown who did not like pancakes, and Mrs. Caudle only objects to the price of eggs. They are made as follows:—Make a light batter of three spoonfuls of flour, three eggs, well beaten, a little salt, and small sprinkling of ginger. Fry in thin layers in a pan, and turn. The tossing of a pancake is easily acquired. They are rolled and served with sugar and lemon. Some persons mix flour with the butter, but it is quite unnecessary. Jams are sometimes served with pancakes, instead of sugar. Haleskikes (Polish Pancakes).—Beat up eight eggs, and mix them with a pint and a half of milk or cream, two ounces of melted fresh