DEDICATION. “ Soon, Australasia, may thy inmost plains— A new Arcadia—teem with simple swains ; Soon a Lycoris’ scorn again inspire A GaHns’ song to moan his hopeless fire ; And while he murmurs forth his plaintive tale, The list’ning breezes waft it down the vale. What though no am’rous shepherd ’midst thy dells E’er charm’d responsive Echo from her cells ! What though nor liquid flute, nor shriller reed, E’er shot their wild notes o’er thy silent mead ! Thy blue-eyed daughters, with the flaxen hair, And taper ankle, do they bloom less fair Than those of Europe ? Do thy primal groves Ne’er warble forth their feather’d inmates’ loves ? ” —Extract from “ Australasia,” a poem, written for the Chancellor’s Medal, at the Cambridge Commencement, 1823, by William Charles Wentworth, an Australian* * Mr. William Charles Wentworth is the first Australian who has done the State service, and they know it; and, as a consequence, his compatriots owe him a debt of gratitude, which they have partially repaid. “ Patriots have toil’d, and in their country’s cause Bled nobly; and their deeds, as they deserve, Receive proud recompense.” Against the autocracy of Downing Street he carried the Preferable Heir Act, which saved the colony from universal insolvency, and is the law to this day. He wrung from unwilling power “ the liberty ®f the press,” and his influence established the first Australian university. As a tribute to his public worth, his statue has been raised in the hall of the latter seat of learning. Graven at Rome, by a cunning hand, public subscription has imported the sculpture that “gives bond in stone." It was opened to the public under the patronage of the Governor, and inaugurated by a fellow-countryman—Mr. Martin—whose eloquent address on the occasion deserves a niche in the temple of Fame. Australia naturally thought that ere this some mark of the Royal favour would have encircled the brow of her favourite son. No! the bureaucracy of the Olonial Office have passed by the leading name, and awarded the accolade to some far, far inferior in every possible attribute to the respected gentleman to whom I-have thus cursorily alluded, and who is, I believe, distantly con- nected with the British peerage; but that is hardly any recommendation with the Australian democracy. “ Honour and shame from no condition rise: Act well your part—there all the honour lies.” I know little of Mr. Wentworth, except as a public man, and perhaps he may not thank me for thus sounding “ the trumpet of his praise; ” that I disregard, when I consider lam performing a public duty to my country. Mr. Wentworth has lately resigned the omco of President of the Council, and left Australia for England, rumour states, being dissatisfied with the working of our free constitution, which doubtless requires a more Conservative balance.