WHY ANIMALS TO BE EATEN MUST BE KILLED. 185- "boiler, and open fire-place. The latter is a very complete affair, and has an ODen fire-place, hot-plate, boiler, and movable roaster; which will bake bread and pastry in first-rate style. The prices of these articles are from fifty shillings to twenty guineas; but the cooking stoves that we would re- commend beyond all others are those made in America. They are portable, require no fixing, and vary in price from five to fourteen pounds. They are a perfect cure for a smoky chimney, and are decidedly the best, in every way, for a warm climate, as a person may use them without being burnt by the fire. Meat baked in their ovens cannot be distinguished by the taste or ilavour from that roasted in front of an open fire ; provided the joint is basted occasionally. The open iron surface on the top of the stove has room for stewpans and kettles. They have a variety of names. The one used by the writer is called “The Golden State,” and bears on it as makers the names of “ Johnson and Fuller, Broadway, New York.” Hill, of Silver Street, Trowbridge, advertises the “ LeamingtonPrize Kitchener” at a more reasonable rate than any other ironmongery establishment, as far as we know. The common American tin baking-oven, that heats before the fire by a reflector, and costs six or eight shillings, is admirable for a small family, as it will bake rolls, pies, or meat to perfection, if properly attended to. Portable Ovens.—An expert bushman can bake a good loaf in an iron pot, or a pio in a camp oven; but, for a fire-place, the revolving ovens are a useful and necessary article. They are suspended in front of the fire by a worsted string, or bottle-jack, and in this mode will bake bread, cakes, pies, &c., in a very perfect manner. They will bake a four-pound loaf in an hour and a quarter, the only care being that it is always on the turn. The saving in families in grinding their own wheat and baking their own bread, is very great—without considering the better article they thereby have, and the proper habits of domestic economy promoted in the household; besides, home-made bread is, according to medical authority, far more wholesome and nutritious than the bakers’, which has been elsewhere stated. Lord Mayor’s Dinner.—The dinner at Guildhall, on Lord Mayor’s Day, is a mag- nificent spectacle. The Lord Mayor and his distinguished guests advance to the banquet. by sound of trumpet; and the superb dresses and official costumes of many of the com- pany (about 1,200), with the display of costly plate, is very striking. The hall is divided. At the Upper, or Hustings Tables, the courses are served hot; at the lower tables the turtle only is hot. The baron of beef is brought in procession from the kitchen into the hall, in the morning, and being placed upon a pedestal, at night is cut up by the City Carver. The kitchen wherein the dinner is dressed is a vast apartment. The princi- pal range is sixteen feet long, and seven feet high, and a baron of beef (three cwt.) is roasted by gas. There are twenty cooks, besides helpers. Some forty turtles are slaughtered for 250 turee- s of soup ; and the serving of the dinner requires about 200. persons, and 8,000 plate changes. Next morning, the fragments of the great feast are doled out at the kitchen gate to the city poor.—Curiosities of London. LXIX.—WHY ANIMALS TO BE EATEN MUST BE KILLED. The Irish are very hospitable, and a.re remarkable for the novelty and point of their convivial toasts; so much so, that an Irish squire was known to spend half of his day in inventing toasts and the other half in drinking them.—Nimrod. It is universally understood that animals which die from disease are not fitted for our markets. It is also understood that when cattle are- over-driven their meat is notably inferior to that of healthy animalsr