XI INTRODUCTORY PREFACE. as, I think, it will receive in the colonies. To the latter I say, in the cant words of the times, “Advance, Australia! ” for the progress of the offspring tends to the prestige of the parent. When Napoleon I. was- asked by a learned lady who was the greatest female, he rejoined, “ The mother who had borne the greatest number of children.” By a parity of reasoning, Great Britain will be found to occupy the most prominent position io the world ; and long, long may she do so, although there are croakers to be found who care little for the colonies, whom Haliburton has so ably exposed:— » “ Them who say colonies are no good, are either fools or knaves. If they be fools,, they aint worth answerin’; and if they are knaves, send them to the treadmill till they learn to speak the truth.” England without colonies means England with a redundant population—England with more mouths than she can feed; without an outlet for individual enterprise and individual restlessness; without constant vent for her industry and its fruit3. It means Glasgow, Manchester, Leeds, Sheffield, and Birmingham, with a chronic paralysis of trade, and periodical stagnations of work. It means hunger, famine, exasperation, and sedition. It means tumult, threats, armed gatherings, revolt against authority, and persecution by authority. Who shall gauge the exact value of these evils, and their antidote in pounds, shillings, and pence ? .... On the whole, then, what should we gain by the emancipation of our colonies from the gentlest and easiest sway ever exercised ? We should save some millions a year in the army and navy estimates ; we should save some millions a year which we now spend on colonial defences, by sea and by land. That would he our gain. But what should we lose ? The friendship and devotion of millions of fellow-subjects in every sea, proud to be citizens of this great empire, and to feel that its highest prizes are open to them and their children; the friendship and alliance of great nations now in their first germ ; and, let us not forget to add, markets which now annually consume thirty million pounds’ worth of our goods. But we should lose something more valuable and indispensable—the esteem and honour of all nations, who have looked upon us as the great colonisers of modem days—as the people who have founded an empire no less firm and compact than that of ancient Rome; no less brilliant and heroic than those scattered but ephemeral communities which bore to alien shores and barbarous tribes the meteoric light of Grecian genius and art. — “ Quarterly Review,” on our Colonial System, in July number, 1863. J Of the dependencies of England, she has every reason to be proud of her Australian possessions; and most justly so, as they consume her manufactures more than any other. They employ her mercantile marine they absorb her reduudant population, and they yield her valuable im- ports, as well as grl.den treasures taken from the bowels of the earth. Our exports to the Australian Colonies amounted in each of the years 1858 and 1850 to 000,000. Estimating the population at 1,200,000, tliis would give precisely £10 per head of population.—“The American Union,” by Spence. By the Trado and Navigation Reports laid before Parliament in the year 1862, by command oi Her Majesty, it appears that the import and export trade between the Australian Colonies and tho United Kingdom, amounted to £23,000,000 in 1661; while e lmPorJ and export trade of those Colonies with all parts of tho world is pfr'!n Introduction to the New South Wales Catalogue, at the International ^'bdion, to have exceeded £47,000,000 in the preceding year, I860.—Thorry's “Now South. Wales and Victoria. The importance of the trade of these Colonies (Australia) was very great to -Lmgiand. I he exports of British and Irish produce to foreign countries fell off between