264 EDIBLE FOOD. lishment as his own; they are all as civil and obedient to him as if they were in his own house. He has no trouble in paying or managing them: they are men carefully selected for their good conduct and general intel- ligence. The order preserved throughout the whole establishment is admirable.—London Saturday Journal. Superstition.—Tlie superstition prevails everywhere against thirteen to dinner. There were thirteen at dinner one day at Madame Catalan’s, when a French comtesse, who lived with her up-stairs, was sent for to remedy the grievance. Lord L said he had dined once abroad at Count Orloff’s, who did not sit down to dinner, but kept walking about from chair to chair, because “ the harisliken were at table, who he knew would rise instantly if they perceived the number thirteen, which Orloff would have made by sitting down himself."—Moore’s Diary. Dined at . We were seated, twelve in number, when Hook arrived. He looked, at first, very black on finding himself the thirteenth; but being told that T , the actor, was expected, immediately took his seat, and the evening passed off merrily enough. An anecdote was given in the course of conversation singularly corroborative of the superstition by which Hook was clearly at first affected. A party of twelve had just sat down, and one of the guests having observed a vacant chair, was remarking that he should hardly like to be the person destined to occupy that seat, when a tremendous double rap was heard, the door was thrown open, and Mr. Fauntleroy announced. He was hanged within the year!—Life of Theodore Look. CXII.—EDIBLE FOOD. It is melancholy to find that, according to the authority of a certain great French, author, “ Cooks, half-stewed and half-roasted, when unable to work any longer, generally retire to some unknown corner, and die in forlornness and want.”—Blackwood’s Magazine. The traveller Bell observed whole rows of badgers hung up for sale in China, just as rabbits are displayed in the English markets; and those who have partaken of the meat, especially of the European badger, report that it is excellent. Major Lloyd, in his “ Field Sports of the North of Europe,” remarks that its flesh is very eatable when parboiled in bay- seed water, or, still better, in salt water, and afterwards roasted and left to cool, and used for luncheons ; but it must be the flesh of the young badgers. Of an allied species, the canajou of North America, the Hon. C. A. Murray relates in his “Travels”:—“We made our soup, and I boiled my badger ; his own fat was all the basting he required, and when he was served up, we all agreed that we had never eaten better meat; it had but one fault, being so exceedingly fat, that it surpassed, in that respect, any pig or other animal I ever saw.” Mr. Jordan gives his personal testimony that the flesh of the hedgehog is excellent; and a mole-catcher relates that he was in the habit of eating the moles he caught; and said that if folks generally knew how good they were, but few would fall to his share. The armadilloes are exceedingly foul feeders, yet all who have partaken of their flesh agree that one roasted in his own shell is most delicate eating. In tropical seas some of the shell-fish attain a great size; one species (triducna gigas) has been known to measure above two and a half feet in the longest diameter of the shell, and contains, of course, a proportionate quantity of food. A peculiar interest, however, attaches to some of those mentioned by classic writers, and to none so much as the different species of cuttle-fishes, which, though not valued on