FONDU. Ill till dissolved; strain, and mix with it a quart of cream or good milk ; if cream, do not use so much isinglass; stir it over the fire till it comes to a boil; when a little cooled, add gradually the beaten yolks of six eggs and a glass of white wine. Pour it into a deep dish, sweeten with loaf sugar, stir it till cold, and then put it into a shape. In lieu of the wine, it may be flavoured with the peel of a lemon. Spanish Flummery.—Scald a quart of cream with a little cinnamon or mace, mix this gradually into half a pound of rice flour, and stir it over a gentle fire until it is of the thickness of jelly. Sweeten it to taste, and pour it into cups or shapes. Turn it out when cold, and serve up. Cream, wine, or preserves eat well with it; or it may be eaten alone, as preferred. Diking in State.—With growing reverence for the sage, we attended the hermit of Bellyfulle hack to his cell. “ In half an hour,” said he, graciously smiling, “ it will be dinner time. Half an hour,” he repeated with musical emphasis, as he passed into his chamber. Having profitably employed the time with cold water, we then, refreshed yet hungry, sought our host. The hermit awaited us. He had put aside his cloak of the morning, and was again wrapped in his old damask gown. He perceived that we observed the change. “My custom, sir,” he said; “I never yet could dine in full dress. The digestive organs, sir, abominate close buttoning, and do their work sulkily, grumblingly. No, sir: a man in full dress may chew and swallow, but he never dines. The stomach cannot honestly perform its functions in state.” We smiled; whereupon the hermit, with a grave, sly look, asked, “Will you answer me this question ?” We bowed affirmatively. “ Do you think if is in the power of mortal man to give a fair, wise, learned judgment upon any dish or sauce soever, the said man being, at the time of tasting, in tight boots? Sir, it is impossible.”—Chronicles of Clovemook. XXXIII.—FONDU. Where, where ? Art thou come ? Why, my cheese, my digestion, why hast thou not served thyself into my table so many meals ?—Achilles, in “ Troilus and Cressida.” Four eggs well beaten, three ounces of butter, three ounces of cheese, and a gill of cream; mix well, and bake for twenty minutes in small shapes or in a dish. Serve hot, for cold fondu is unbearable. Another Eecipe.—Beat up the yolks of eight eggs together with a quarter of a pound of melted butter, and half a pound of grated cheese, of good flavour; mix the ingredients with the whites of the eggs whisked to a froth. Bake in small dishes and serve hot. - iI‘,lr/^TTl,’Ti'1—AcCording to the_gastronomical adjudication of our friend, the French judge (M. Bnllat Savarin), this dish must be served in silver, or metal, so as to preserve the calorie heat, and along with the fondu must be handed round choice Burgundy, or Australian white wine, if the Amphitryon has such liquor; if not, port, or a small ale- glass of real Burton.