266 EDIBLE FOOD. hesitate to eat them, and we are assured by Aristotle they were considered very delicious. These brief notices of edible insects may be concluded by a reference to the termites, or white ants. The Africans parch them in iron pots, over a gentle fire, and then eat them by handfuls, as we do comfits. Smeathman says he has several times eaten them dressed in this way, and thought them delicious, nourishing, and wholesome, resembling in taste sugared cream or sweet almond paste. Fish would appear to have constituted a portion of the food of man from a very early period. The use of certain kinds is sanctioned by the Mosaic dispensation ; and, 1.500 years later, we learn from the sacred volume that they were in common use as food, and were associated with the miraculous events which have given to the sea of Galilee and adjacent shores an interest so peculiarly their own. The writings of Aristotle, the great father of natural history, have given us minute description of species which may be still recognised in the iEgean sea, and which continue to be sought for as nutritive and delicious food. If we turn from mam- miferous animals to birds, and regard them, at present, merely as food for man, the range of subject, even when tiros limited, embraces every country on the globe and every isle that gems the ocean. The picture of the feathered creation, commenced by Milton, may be enlarged and completed by the reader:— The eagle and the stork On clifts and cedar-tops their eyries build ; Part loosely wing the region, part, more wise. In common, ranged in figure, range their way. Intelligent of seasons; and set forth Their airy caravan, high over seas Plying, and over lands, with mutual wing. Easing their flight. —Extract from '■'•The Uses of Animals to Man.'1' Pood.—1There is an article under this head in “ Good Words,” by the late Arch- bishop Whately, in which that learned theologian informs the numerous readers of the periodical to which he contributed, that, amongst the Aborigines of Australia, a mother eats her baby, under the idea that she has merely deferred its birth, and that the next child she bore would be merely a reappearance of the eaten one. We cannot think where Dr. Whately obtained the information on which he put forth such a state- ment; but we can assure the reader that, although the aboriginal inhabitants are not very particular, either in their food or cuisine, such a curious plea for devouring their offspring is quite as imaginary as the fact of tlieir doing so. Garibaldian Frugality. — The general for months has denied himself and his household the luxury of meat. Beans, kidney beans, and salads, along with rye bread and sheep’s milk, form their staple diet. This simple fare is adopted for the purpose of saving some money for the Polish fund, as the general says he cannot be luxurious while “ three millions of his brethren are sunk in misery.” Pish is plentiful; but Bosso, who undertakes to dress it, is not a famous cook. Garibaldi, who is the soul of hospitality, sometimes gives him lessons on the art of frying sardines and a small fish caught in the Straits of Maddelina; but the master is not so skilful as the man, although he is under the delusion that he has of late achieved some gastronomic triumphs.—Late Neves from Caprera.