53 PUDDINGS AND TIES. "butter, some grated nutmeg, lemon-peel rasped upon loaf sugar, a little salt, and ten ounces of flour, and make the whole into a smooth batter. Put into a frying-pan some butter or lard, and when it boils pour in some of the latter, and sprinkle in a few currants ; fry nicely, and sprinkle the pancake with sugar ; roll it with a two-pronged fork, and serve hot. Pink Pancakes.—Boil a large red beetroot until it is very tender, then peel it, cut it into thin slices, and pound it to a pulp in a marble mortar; add the yolks of five eggs, two table-spoonfuls of flour, four of cream, powdered sugar, nutmeg, and a wineglass of brandy. Rub the whole into a batter, and fry the pancakes with lard. Serve hot, garnished with sweetmeats. Pancakes on Sheove-Tuesday.—Taylor, tlie water poet, writing in 1630, says:— “ Shrove-Tuesday, at whose entry in the morning aU the whole kingdom is unquiet; hut by the time the clock strikes eleven, which, by the help of a knavish sexton, is commonly before nine, then there is a hell rung called ‘ the pancake bell,' the sound of which makes thousands of people distracted, and forgetful either of manners or humanity; and there is a thing called wheaten flour, which the cooks do mingle with water, eggs, spice, and other tragical and magical enchantments; and then they put it, by a little and little, into a frying-pan, with boiling suet, where it makes a confined dismal hissing, like Lethean snakes in the reeds of Acheron, Styx, or Phlegethon, until at last, by the skill of the cook, it is transformed into the form of a flip-jack, called a pancake, which, with ominous incantations, the ignorant do devour very greedily.”— Things not Generally Known. Fritters are made with the batter a little thicker, aud more of it is run into the pan. Apples, pears, and peaches are sliced thin, and mixed with the batter and fried, and sometimes raisins and currants—all depending on taste. Peach fritters are delectable eating. Sweet Omelette.—Beat the yolks and whites of three eggs separate; grate on them a little ginger, with salt, and add a little cream or new milk. Fry the omelette, and serve with white sugar. Mother Eve’s Pudding.— If you would have a good pudding, observe what you’re taught: Take two pennyworth of eggs, when twelve for the groat; And of the same fruit that Eve had once chosen, Well pared and well chopp’d, at least half a dozen; Six ounces of bread (let your maid eat the crust), The crumbs must be grated as small as the dust; Six ounces of currants from the stones you must sort, Lest they break out your teeth and spoil all your sport; Five ounces of sugar won’t make it too sweet; Some salt and some nutmeg will make it complete : Three hours let it boil, without hurry or flutter ; And then serve it up, without sugar or butter. An excellent plain plum pudding may be made by substituting raw grated carrots for eggs; it is light, nice, and looks a rich pudding. This is the recommendation of a housewife of known culinary ability. We have read that other persons propose snow and small beer as substitutes for eggs, while Kitchener declares that “they will no more answer t.ie purpose than substitutes for sugar or brandy.” We incline to the latter opinion. Green Apricot Pudding or Tart.—The apricots must be simmered