XXI11 .—SAUSAGES. The sausage made of beef Is fit for Loudon thief; The sausage made of pork Is eaten but at York— The Razor Grinder. If the reader is wise lie will always abstain from eating sausages, unless he knows of their manufacture, should he not be desirous of partaking of the man who, Dickens cleverly informs us, was chopped into sausage meat, and all that remained of him was his buttons. It is a positive and notorious fact in all parts of the world, that every kind of unwholesome meat is minced into sausages. Who would ever think of putting good meat into sausages when the mince and sage will effectually smother the flavour of putrid stuff? We have given elsewhere a recipe for black hog’s puddings. We now give a few modern ways of making at home a very favourite relish, with the aid of a twenty-five shilling machine:— Sausages.—To each pound of pork allow a pound of veal and one pound of fat—that is, two parts lean to one part of fat. Mix them well, and allow a pound of bread-crumbs, thyme, parsley, an ounce of sage, two heads of leeks, a little garlic or a shalot, chopped fine, with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. To each pound allow one egg, the yolks and whites separate; beat both well, mix in the yolks, and as much of the whites as necessary to moisten the bread, and add all the ingredients together. "Worcester Sausages are made of beef, suet, and allspice, with other herbs. Muttou Sausages.—To each pound of mutton add a pound of beef suet, and anchovies, for relish, chopped fine, and what seasoning you choose. Herbs or not, as you please. Veal Sausages.—Veal sausages are made like Oxford sausages, except bacon i3 used instead of sage. Savoury Sausages.—Salt a piece of lean beef and pork with com- mon salt, a little saltpetre, sugar, black pepper, and allspice, for two days. Season with pepper, cayenne, garlic, and a shalot; and mince fine and put into clean gut. Smoke them. When wanted for use they may bo boiled and eaten cold. Saveloys.—These are a fine relish, cleanly and properly prepared, and are good either hot or cold. The proportions are as follows: Pork, free from bone and skin, three pounds ; salt it with an ounce of saltpetre, and half a pound of common salt for about forty-eight hours ; then mince it fine, and add three spoonfuls of pepper, a dozen leaves of sage, and a pound of grated bread; mix well; fill the skins, and boil or bake them