24 MADE DISHES. fowl, sweetbread of veal, and kidneys cooked in bouillon gras; they then serve to garnish soups, ragouts, and vegetables. Beef Olives.—Cut slices of beef of about a quarter of an inch thick, lay on each piece a forcemeat of crumbs of bread, shalot, a little suet or dripping, pepper, and salt. Koll each piece separate, and fasten with a skewer ; put them into a stew-pan, with some gravy, and stew till tender. Serve with slices of lemon. Meat Sanders.—Mince beef or mutton small with onion, shalot, pepper and salt, adding a little gravy ; put into scallop shells or tins, with a little gravy, making them about half full; fill up with mashed potatoes;, put a little fat on the top of each, and brown in a Dutch oven. Meat Cecils.—Mince any kind of meat, add crumbs of bread, onions, shalot, lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, a couple of anchovies boned, and a small piece of butter; mix well, and make into balls, with an egg; sprinkle over them crumbs of grated bread, and fry them brown. Calf's Head Hashed.—Cut the head up into slices, flour them, and put them into a stewpan, with a little of the liquor the head was boiled in, or some stock, with two blades of mace, a salt-spoon of salt, and flour to thicken. Let it simmer, and before serving add a dessert- spoonful of lemon juice. A Scotch Haggis.—Make the haggis bag perfectly clean; par- boil the drought, boil the liver very well, so as it will grate, dry the meat before the fire; mince the drought and a pretty large piece of beef very small; grate about half the liver; mince plenty of the suet and some onions small; mix all these ingredients very well together, with'a handful or two of the dried meal; spread them on the table, and season them properly with salt and mixed spices ; take any of the scraps of beef that is left from mincing, and some of the water that boiled the drought, and make about a chopin (i.e., a quart) of good stock of it; then put all the haggis meat into the bag, and that broth in it; then sew the bag; but be sure to put out all the wind, before you sew it quite close. If you think the bag is thin, you may put it in a cloth. If it is a large haggis, it will take at least two horn's boiling. Australian liaggis is sometimes made in a bason, and crust put over it, and then- baked in an oven, which is a very good way of preparing this celebrated Scotch dish. This mode preserves the gravy far better than the usual way of boiling. Dr. Kitchener states that he extracted the above verbatim from Mrs. MTvor, a cele- brated Caledonian professor of the culinary art, who taught and published a book of. cookery at Edinburgh, a.d. 1787, and it has been copied since Kitchener’s second pub- lication of it into almost all the works we have read, without acknowledgment. Haricot Mutton.—Fry iu a pan a sufficient quantity of mutton, cut in slices. When nearly done take the meat out, and fry of a brown colour equal quantities of turnips and carrots, cut into small pieces, and a few onions. When done put the mutton and vegetables in a stewpan, with a small quantity of stock, and pepper and salt; simmer and serve.. A good haricot is never watery or full of gravy.