appert’s mode of preserving fruit or vegetables. 113 SECOND COURSE. Roasts : Capon, quails, turkey poults, green goose. Side Dishes : Asparagus, haricot beans in the French fashion, Lobster salad, Mixed jelly (omnium gatherum jelly), Plovers’ eggs in jelly, Russian Charlotte, Maraschino jelly, Marble cream, Basket of pastry, Rhubarb tart (light pastry), Apricot tart (close or solid pastry), Basket of meringues (called, vulgarly, sugar eggs), Dressed crab, Salad au jelantine (we fancy must be a misprint for salade en jalantine. Galantine is a fashion of ar- ranging salad or poultry with herbs and jelly), Mushrooms, with herbs. Removes : Vanilla souffle (i.e., beaten up—whipped), Nesselrode pudding, Adelaide sandwiches, Fondu (melted cheese). (Pieces moditers are the ornamental articles of confectionery.) N.B.—Fricandeau is a piece of meat (generally veal) saute—i.e., cooked—in a peculiar manner, partly in a frying-pan and partly in a stewpan, witli very rich, sauce, and stuck lull of little pieces of the fat of bacon, and with some kind of vegetables round it—peas, spinach, or sorrel. Public Dinners at Athens.—The public dinners at the Prytaneium, of which the archons and a select few partook in common, were either first established, or perhaps only more strictly regulated, by Solon. He ordered barley cakes for their ordinary meals, and wheaten bread for festival days, prescribing how often each person should dine at the table. The honour of dining at the Prytaneium was maintained throughout as a valuable reward at the disposal of the Government.—Grote’s “ History of Greece XXXV. —APPERT’S MODE OF PRESERVING FRUIT OR VEGETABLES. The article must be put into wide-mouthed glass bottles. The finest corks must be used; the bottles dry; and when corked, they must be air-tight. The bottles being thus corked, put them into a saucepan, fill it with cold water, and set it on the fire, and boil the bottled articles in . the bain marie. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, and let it get • almost cold before taking out the bottles. Dip the cork in resin, and put t the bottles in the cellar. To avoid any breakage the heat of the bain marie might produce, it is necessary only to fill the bottles to within two inches of the necks, and not even so high if the bottle only contains