DKINKS. ■m I must descant a little upon the mint julep, as it is, with the thermometer at 100°, one of the most delightful and insinuating of potations that ever was invented, and may he drunk with equal satisfaction when the thermometer is as low as 70°. There are many varieties, such as those composed of claret, Madeira, &c., but the ingredients of the real mint julep are as follows. I learned how to make them, and succeeded pretty wellPut into a tumbler about a dozen sprigs of the tender shoots of mint, upon them put a spoonful of white sugar, and equal proportions of peach and common brandy, so as to fill up one-third, or perhaps a little less. Then take rasped or pounded ice, and fill up the tumbler. Epicures rub the lips of the tumbler with a piece of fresh pine- apple, and the tumbler itself is often encrusted outside with stalactites of ice. As the ice melts you drink. I once heard two ladies talking in the next room to me, and one of them said, “Well, if I have a weakness for anything, it is for a mint julep.” A very amiable weakness, and proving her good sense and good taste. They are, in fact, like the American ladies—irresistible.—Marryatt. Fashionable Drinks at Washington.—The following is a list of refreshments, among others, to be obtained at one of the most celebrated bars of Washington, where the ilite of society, as well as the brave soldiery, rush for liquid consolations after a reverse, or to toast the hero of a tall skedaddle:—Hammock’s Special List of Drinks.—Sea Brook Dash, Spirituous Consolations, Ladies’ Blush, Hop Up, Get Back, Brandy Hash, Brandy Sour, Old Julep, Morning Glory, Catawba Cobbler, Hen Fruit Cobbler, Dry Smash, Ethereal (old and dry), Tippecanoe Sangaree, Do Poscaffee, Cocktail Dipped, Old Sow Cocktail, Shamporougli, Annisette Blush, Black Hock Sangaree, Champagne Frappee, Wedding Night, Bum Croak, Stomacher, Legal Lush, Strawberry Smash, Island of Cuba (for ladies), Eailroad Smash, Take Her Off, Spiced Bum, Cocktail Soured, Apple Toddy, Claret Smash, Twelve o’Clock (very sweet). Old Sally, Curaqoa Sangaree.—The News of the World. Sherry Cobbler : made in a similar way to mint julep, sans lemon- peel or mint, sherry being substituted for brandy, and nutmeg grated on the liquor. Sometimes strawberries are used. Sherry Cobbler {another recipe).—Take a lump of ice ; fix it at the odge of a board ; rasp it with the proper tool; collect the fine raspings in a capacious tumbler; pour thereon two glasses of cool sherry, and a spoonful of white sugar, with a few small pieces of lemon. Stir with a macerator, and drink through a tube of macaroni. Claret for boys, port for men, and brandy for heroes.—Dr. Johnson. Stonewall is an admixture of cider, wine, brandy, &c., served with ice and a straw. The name of this liquor will remind the reader of the sobriquet bestowed on the celebrated Confederate general, whose untimely fate must be lamented, for he was the personification of the chivalrous people of the South, who are working out the poet's axiom— “ Who would be free themselves must strike the blow. By their right arm the conquest must be wrought.” The last words of this great, good, and lamented man (General Jackson), just before death, were, “ Bury me at Lexington, in the valley of Virginia;’’ and, in accordance with his sacred command, all that is mortal of the most renowned and successful mili- tary genius that the war, or probably modern ages, has produced, now lies interred within the walls of the Presbyterian cemetery, located in the south-western suburbs of this delightful village. Nothing marks the spot where his mortal remains lie to dis- tinguish his grave from that of others, save a diminutive Confederate flag, not larger than a lady’s handkerchief. This tiny emblem is fastened to a staff not more than two feet long, and placed at the head of the grave ; and there waves, as if to illustrate the inodost pretensions of the great hero of the valley of Virginia.—New York Express. Stone Fence: the same as the above. Gin Sling: a similar liquor, made with gin, prepared in the same way as mint julep.