LIQTJETJKS. 1S1 fortunate nut-brown partridges ought to know. Foreign cura^oa may- be so closely imitated by the following that a good judge may be deceived:— Put six ounces of thin-cut Seville oranges into a quart bottle, with a pint of genuine whisky ; cork it tightly, and let the rind infuse for ten or twelve days, when take out the peel, and fill up the bottle with clari- fied syrup ; shake it well, and let it remain for three days. Then pour a tea-spoonful of the liqueur into a mortar, and mix with it a drachm of powdered alum, and the same quantity of carbonate of potash; pour this into the bottle, shake it well, and the cura(joa will be bright and well-flavoured. Kirsch, or, as it is called in Germany, kirschwasser (cherry-water), is made in large quantities in the Black Forest and in Switzerland. In France, it is made exclusively in Franche Comte, the centre of the trade being at Fougerolles (Haut Saone). As soon as the cherries are ripe, the trees are beaten by the peasants with poles, and the fruit is picked up and throwrn into tubs. The juice is pressed out; after which the stones are taken out of the mass, broken, and the kernels are put into the cherry juice. After the whole has undergone fermentation, it is distilled. The bouquet of the kirsch is owing to the prussic acid in the kernels. According to Le ISTormand, kirschwasser is “ downright poison.” Martinique Uoyeau.—Put into a stone jar— Preserved quarns and their syrup, or jelly of that fruit Oil of sweet almonds ... Sweet almonds, beaten fine Bitter ditto ... Preserved ginger and its syrup ... Cinnamon and cloves (bruised) each Nutmeg and pimento ... Jamaica ginger Candied lemon and citron, of each White sugar-candy (powdered) ... Proof spirit of wine ... *lb. 1 oz. 1 „ 1 „ 2 .. * * 1 U ii ii n 11 11 5 quarts. Boil the oil with a little brandy, and mix it with the almonds, when beaten to a paste with orange-flower water. Stop up the jar securely, and let it remain in a warm room, or the sun, shaking it often, for a fortnight. Keep it. in the tun for twelve months, then strain it, and filter repeatedly until it is as clear as spring water. Rinse phials or half- pint bottles, with any white wine, drain them and fill. Cork and seal well. In six months it will be fit for use, but will improve greatly by age.—liol/inson. Tears Oi the Widow of Malabar.—To ten pounds of spirit (pale brandy) add four pounds of white sugar, and four pints of water, adding four drachms of powdered cinnamon, forty-eight grains of cloves, and the same quantity of mace. Colour with caramel.