GHAVIES. 31 of port wine or claret; pour it on the meat just before serving. A table- spoonful of ketchup may be added. Ancient Sauces.—And the Lydians were also the first people to introduce the use of the sauce called caruea, concerning the preparation of which all those who have written cookery books have spoken a good deal—namely, Glaucus the Locrian, and Mithcecus, and Dionysius, and the two Heraelidse (who were by birth Syracusans), and Agis,_and Epoemus, and Dionysius, and also Hegesippus, and Erasistratus, and Enthydeftius, and Criton; and besides these. Stephanus, and Archytas, and Acestius, and Acesias, and Diodes, and Philistion; for I know that all these have written cookery books. And the Lydians, too, used to speak of a dish which they called candaulus ; and there was not one kind of candaulus, but three, so wholly devoted were they to luxury. And Hegesippus, the Tarentine, says, that the candaulus is made of boiled meat and grated bread, and Phrygian cheese, and aniseed, and thick broth ; and it is mentioned by Alexis, in his “ Woman all Night; or, the Spinnersand it is a cook who is repre- sented as speaking:— A. And, besides this, we now will serve you up A dish whose name’s candaulus. B. I’ve ne’er tasted Candaulus, nor have I heard of it. A. ’Tia a most grand invention, and ’tis mine; And if I put a dish of it before you, Such will be your delight that you’ll devour Your very fingers e’er you lose a bit of it. We here will get some balls of snow-white wool. »****» You will serve up an egg well shred, and twice Doiled till it’s hard ; a sausage, too, of honey ; Some pickle from the frying-pan, some slices Of new-made Cynthian cheese; and then A bunch of grapes, steep’d in a cup of wine; But this part of the dish is always laugh’d at. And yet it is the mainstay of the meal. B. Laugh on, my friend ; but now be off, I beg. With all your talk about candauli, and Your sausages, and dishes, and such luxuries. A tkenwiis, literally translated by Yonge. Medical.—The faculty the stomach has of communicating the impressions made by the various substances that are put into it is such, that it seems more like a nervous expansion from the brain than a mere receptacle for food.—Waterhouse. X.—GRAVIES. “ I will play the cook.”—Titus Anduonicus. Beef Gravy.—Put into a stewpan a slice of bacon or ham, with four or five pounds of gravy beef cut into pieces, a carrot, an onion, a couple of cloves, and a head of celery. Put a quart of water to it, or a little more, and let it simmer for three hours, and strain through a tamis. Savoury Gravy.—Made in the same way as beef gravy, with a larger proportion of sweet herbs and lemon peel, a bay leaf and skalot. Veal Gravy.—Cut three pounds of veal into slices, with a small quantity of ham or bacon, and simmer in the same manner as beef gravy. Brown Gravy.—Cut onions into a stewpan, about six or eight, depending on their size, with an ounce of butter. Set it on a slow fire,