INTRODUCTORY PREFACE. wi Liebig informs us, “ That among all the arts known to man, there is none which enjoys a juster appreciation, and the products of which are more universally admired, than that which is concerned in the prepara- tion of food ; ” and Byron truly writes— “ Albeit all human history attests, That happiness for man—the hungry sinner— Since Eve ate apples, much depends on dinner." My book will combine the advantages of Mrs. Acton’s work with the creme de la creme of the cheapest of Soyer's productions. I will not be so ungallant as to affirm that a female cannot write a book on cookery, like the great moralist. Boswell tells us, in his very remarkable work, that the Doctor said to Miss Seward— “ Women can spin very well, but they cannot make a good book on cookery. I could write a better book of cookery than has ever yet been written. It should be a book on philosophical principles." The sex have been belied by Johnson, for Mrs. Acton’s work is excel- lent of its kind. It is only faulty in being so elaborate, so that it is not within the compass of persons of moderate means; and that is one of the reasons that has induced me to enter the culinary field on this occasion. I would respectfully take this opportunity of drawing the attention of the fair sex to the extreme desirability of their looking to the cuisine of their several establishments. The wisest of men has told us of the pro- perties of a good wife:— “ Shelooketh well to the ways of her household, and eatethnot the bread of idleness. Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her.” —Proverbs xxxi. 27, 28. With the many such a request is unnecessary; but with others, let me remind them of the obligation which Milton has enjoined of them— “ Nothing lovelier can be found In woman, than to study household good.” I am certain that I should be thanked for this recommendation by many husbands. Meat badly prepared is wasted. True economy con- sists in having our comestibles the best of their kind, which consideration a talented Australian authoress has so well pointed out in her letter to me on the making of bread, which appears in this volume. In the middle walks of life, it is the peculiar duty of the mistress to see to the arrangements of the table. Nothing can be more satisfactory to her helpmate, or tend to carry into practical results the words of the song, “Be it ever so homely, there is no place like home.” While the slattern who will not trouble herself with this necessary office, I think,