62 BASTINGS AND DREDGINGS. nut of saffron in powder, a quarter of a pound of the best raisins stoned, and double the quantity of currants, sugar, and some slices of candied citron cut in small pieces; mix and knead all together. Let the paste be soft and well mixed; put it into a buttered pan, and let it stand eight hours in "winter and four in summer; then, without touching it, let it bake in a slow oven for an hour. It vTill be done enough wlien it has taken a good colour. Spanish. Puffs.—Put into a saucepan half a pint of water and a quarter of a pound of butter; stir it until it boils, and mix with it four table-spoonfuls of flour; stir it together, and add six yolks and four whites of eggs, two at a time; let it cool, and, with a dessert-spoon, drop it into boiling clarified dripping or lard. If the puffs are to be flavoured with, ginger, a tea-spoonful of powdered ginger may be added. riau.—Mix a table-spoonful of flour with a table-spoonful of brandy or orange-flower water, eight yolks of eggs, and a little salt; when well mixed, add a quarter of a pound of sugar to a pint of milk, which pour over the eggs, stirring all the time; put the mixture into a buttered tart-pan, and bake in a moderate oven ; powder it with sugar and serve. A Gourmand Abroad.—Three stout, middle-aged men, evidently well to do in the world, were travelling together on a pleasure trip. One of them incessantly talked eatables. Like—with a difference—the fairy-tale damsels, who with every word dropped a diamond on a rose, this worthy man spoke but to enunciate, in a tone of immense relish, “Soup—gravy—turtle—capital pie!—steaks done to a turn, with the juice in!— glorious goose!—splendid sassages/—oysters stewed in cream!”—and all this with such a watery smacking and sucking of the lips, and an unctuous gabble in the voice, that, as a neighbour, he was more to be dreaded, if possible, than the second of the triad, who volunteered long narratives of dyspepsia and other maladies.—Mrs. Mere- dith's “ Over the Straits.” XVI1.—BASTINGS AND DREDGiNGS. Diet.—It follows that, in our climate, a diet of animal food cannot, with safety, be exclusively employed. It is too highly stimulant; the springs of life are urged on too fast, and disease necessarily follows. There may, nevertheless, exist certain states or the system which require such a preternatural stimulus; and the physician may, there- fore, confine his patient to an animal regimen with as much propriety as he would prescribe opium, or any other remedy. By a parity of reasoning, the exclusive use of vegetable food may be shown to be inconsistent with the acknowledged principles of dietetics, and to be incapable of conveying a nourishment sufficiently stimulating for the active exertions which belong to our present civilised condition.—Paris. The rarest ways of dressing of all manner of roast meats, either flesh or fowl, by sea and land, and divers ways of breading or dredging meats, to prevent the gravy from too much evaporating. Dredgings.—• 1. Flour mixed with grated bread. . 2. Sweet herbs dried and powdered, and mixed with grated bread. 3. Lemon-peel dried, or orange-peel mixed with flour. _ 4. Sugar finely powdered, and mixed with pounded cinnamon ana flour, or grated bread.