BREAD AXD BREAKFAST CAKES ( <> r- •thoroughly with as much milk-warm water; make a deep hole in the middle of the flour, and pour the yeast and water into it; then take a spoon and work it round the edges of this body of moisture, so as to bring into it by degrees flour enough to make a thin batter, which must be well stirred for a minute or two. Throw a handful of flour over the surface of this batter, and cover the whole with a cloth thickly folded to keep it warm. Set it by the fire, regulating the distance by the state of the weather and the season of the year. When the batter has risen ■enough to make cracks in the flour, form the whole mass into dough, thus:—Begin by strewing six ounces of salt over the heap; and then beginning round the hole containing the batter, work the flour into it, pouring in milk-warm water or milk as it is wanted. When the whole mass is moistened, knead it well, mould the loaves, let them rise for twenty minutes, and put them into an oven that lias been previously heated. The length of time will depend on the size of the loaves. The baking in an ordinary oven will require about an hour for a four pound loaf, fifty minutes for a three pound, and so on in proportion. This important article of food is made of the flour of different grains; but it is only those which contain gluten that admit of conversion into a light or porous and spongy bread, of which wheaten bread furnishes the best example.—Brande. Persian Bread.—Certainly the women of Yezd are the handsomest women in Persia. The proverb is, that to live happy, a man must have a wife of Yezd, eat the bread of Yezdecas, and drink the wine of Shiraz.—Tavernier. Keep him at least three paces distant who hates bread, music, and the laugh of a child.—Jean Caspar Lavater.' Unfennented Bread.—Unfermented bread is made without yeast, by using muriatic acid and carbonate of soda. Flour, three pounds; bi- carbonate of soda, four drachms; hydrochloric acid, five drachms; salt, one drachm; water, twenty-four ounces.—The Critic. Another:—Flour, seven pounds; bi-carbonate of soda, one ounce; tartaric acid, three- quarters of an ounce; and water, two quarts.—Lloyd's Weekly Paper. As soon as either of these ingredients are mixed, they must be imme- diately put into the oven. We have tried these recipes, and they answer the purpose of making the bread light; but the taste is not palatable. French Bread.—French bread is made from four pounds of fine flour, a quart of lukewarm milk, salt, One quarter of a pound of melted butter; mix the fluids together, and add three beaten eggs, handling it as little as possible ; let the dough rise, and mould it into shape. Bake in a quick oven. 1 he French use eggs, milk, and butter as ingredients for their fancy bread, and are in the habit of adding ammonia to the dough, vrhich, during its evaporation in the oven, raises it, and thus adds to its sponginess. Brown Bread.—This is far more easy of digestion than the very white bread. To three pounds of flour add one pound of rye flour, and the same quantity of yeast and salt, as previously given, and bake longer.