XX—SALADS. "We cannot reasonably expect tranquillity of the nervous system whilst there is disorder of the digestive organs. As we can imbibe no permanent source of strength but from the digestion of our food, it becomes important, on this account, that we should attend to . its quality, quantity, and the periods for talcing it, with a view to ensure its proper ■ digestion.—Abernetluj. There is nothing more wholesome than vegetable salads, and there is no question that they promote digestion, when eaten with moderation. Lettuce, endive, cold potatoes, mild raw onions, and beet, when properly dressed, with good vinegar and the best salad oil, not forgetting pepper, both red and black, are excellent in their way. We have read that some years since an artiste made professional visits to the houses of the nobility and gentry of London for the purpose of dressing salads. He rode in his carriage, after the manner of fashionable physicians, and his fee was one guinea. The materials he provided himself, and he would allow no one to witness his compounding. His preparations were not always the same, but suited to the palate of his employers; and during the season he realised from forty to fifty guineas per day. He was an Italian by birth, and he adopted the proverb of his country—“ En salcula, ben salatci, hoc aceto, ben oleatci ”—which tells us what we all know, that a salad should' be well salted, with much oil, and little vinegar. Subsequently the Is. 6d. mixture compounded by Batty, which would make a dozen salads, spoiled the foreigner’s trade, and he was obliged to “ shut up.” Dr. Paris writes : “ I have generally found condiments useful, and that dressed lettuce is less likely to ferment in the stomach than that which is eaten without them.” Oil is known to have such an effect in checking fermen- tation, and the vinegar is not found to promote it. The lettuce contains- a narcotic principle, and the effect of this is, in a great measure, obviated by a vegetable acid. There is no better recipe for dressing them than the poetical one of the Rev. Sydney Smith, which may be varied, by leaving out the anchovies, and using instead the same quantity of cream:— “Two large potatoes, passed through kitchen sieve, Unwonted softness to the salad give, Of mordant mustard add a single spoon ; 1 distrust the condiment which bites so soon ; But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault To add a double quantity of salt; Three times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, And once with vinegar procured from Town, i rue flavour needs it, and your poet begs The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs. Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl, And, scarce suspected, animate the whole ;