VI-FRYING. Under an impoverished diet, the moral and intellectual capacity is deteriorated, as •well as the bodily.—Coombe. Veal Eissoles.—Mince and pound veal fine; grate into it some remains of cooked ham. Mix them together with Bechamel sauce ; form into balls, and inclose each in pastry. Fry them of a nice brown. ISTot Generally Known.—I have learned by experience, that of all the fats that are used for frying, the pot-top, which is taken from the surface of the broth and stock-pot, is by far the best.—L'Art de Ouisvnier. Veal Outlets, en Papillote.—Cover the cutlets on both sides with an egg, a forcemeat of bread crumbs, bacon, parsley, chives, and mushrooms, all chopped fine; add salt and pepper; over this seasoning lay thin slices of bacon ; envelope the whole carefully in white paper, well buttered; let them fry gently over a slow fire, and serve them in the paper. Veal Fry.—Cut the liver and heart into slices, and fry with bacon. Serve with sharp sauce. Veal Outlets (plain).—Put the cutlets in the frying-pan, with salt and pepper, parsley, shalots, chopped fine, and fry in the best dripping, over a quick fire. When the cutlets are done on one side, turn them, and brown them. After you have taken out the cutlets, pour all the fat out of the pan but a couple of spoonfuls, to which add half a pint of water, thickened with flower. Let this gravy brown, and pour over the cutlets, Garnish the dish with broiled ham, or bacon toasted. This is one of the modes of eating veal, and the simplest cooked. Outlets a la Maintenon.—This has almost become an English dish. Cut veal cutlets, mutton, or lamb-chops, about half an inch thick, and flatten them; brush them over with the yolk of an egg; put over them crumbs of bread and sweet herbs, quant, su-ff., and fold each cutlet in a separate piece of paper. Fry them until nearly done, when take them out of the pan, and put them on the gridiron to finish and dry. They are very delicate eating, if properly done. They are named after a celebrated mistress of Louis XIV. Beef-steaks and Onions.—Have the steaks cut rather thinner than for broiling, put some clarified dripping into the pan, and fry the steaks until done. Then put in the onions, having been previously sliced, and fry them of a light brown. Serve with brown sauce. Sausages, sweetbreads, lamb and mutton-chops, pork-chops, calf’s liver and bacon, bacon and eggs, and cutlets d la Marengo, are all dressed in a similar way, as well as •sheep’s fry. Frying is nothing more nor less than boiling the several meats in fatty matter; a species of cookery by no means to be recommended, unless the cook attends to the propriety of excluding the unctuous adherence. If meat is fried, either in chops or steaks, the great ait is to make a gravy with it, by pouring out of the pan all the fat but a couple of table-spoonfuls, and replacing it with Hour and water, and allowing it to boil in the pan until of the proper consistence. If this is done, sccundem avlem, a meat fry is not so bad after all. C