CV!.—PRESERVED MEATS. Housewifery : an ancient art, said to liave been once fashionable among1 young girls and wives, but now entirely out of use, or practised only by the lower orders.— Scrap. The reason wliy meat-preserving establishments have not been orga- nised and carried out in the Australian provinces we cannot divine, seeing that the article to be made is cheaper than in any other British colony, and that it might become one of the most important industrial resources and exports of Australia. We have extracted from that valuable work, Ure’s “ Dictionary,” the following condensed observations bearing on this subject:— The great importance of preserved meats to a maritime nation like Great Britain is apparent, as these provisions, when sound, are a pre- ventive of sea scurvy. The first successful attempt at preservation of un- salted meats is of French origin, and is due to the inventive skill of M. Appert. This gentleman, in the year 1810, received from the Board of Arts, at Paris, the sum of 12,000 francs for his discovery of a mode of preserving animal and vegetable substances, the results of which were tested in the French navy. M. Appert induced a M. Durant to visit London, and take out a patent, which was done in 1811. In the patent the claims were so wide that it was infringed. The claims included all kinds of fruit, meat, and vegetables, when subjected to the action of heat in closed vessels, more or less freed from air. It was, however, discovered that the British Society of Arts had, in 1807, presented a premium to Mr. Suddington for “a method of preserving fruit without sugar,” which was the same as Appert’s. The validity of Durant’s patent was set aside ; but the results were so satisfactory that the patent was purchased by Messrs. Donkin, Hall, and Gamble, for £1,000, and that firm became the sole manufacturers of preserved meats. M. Appert could only use glass bottles, while Messrs. Donkin and Co., after many experiments, produced provisions preserved in tin. The method of Appert, as improved by Gamble, is to render the albumen of the meat or vegetable insoluble, and therefore scarcely, if at all, susceptible of the action of atmospheric oxygen. By this means the total exclusion of air from the tin cases is rendered unnecessary ; for even if a small quantity of air remain in the case, it will exert no more influence than happens to a piece of coagulated albumen, or hard-boiled egg, which, as is well known, may be exposed to the air for years without sensible alteration, though in its uncoagulated state it putrifies. If, therefore, we desired in a few words to express the essential characteristics of Gamble’s process, it could not be by referring to the exclusion of air, but to the thorough coagula- tion of the albumen, that we look for a satisfactory description. In this process, the meat, more or less cooked, is placed, with a quantity of gravy,