27 MADE DISHES. or beaus into a stewpan, with six spoonfuls of brown sauce, three of brown gravy, two onions, and a little parsley. Let it boil ten minutes ; have ready about a quarter of a pound of lean bacon cut into pieces, add it to the peas or beans, season with an ounce of butter, and stew fifteen minutes, and serve. Breast of Veal, with. Green Peas.—Cut the breast into pieces, and fry of a light brown, with a shredded onion. When browned put the pieces into a stewpan, with a little stock, and allow it to simmer. When nearly done add a quantity of green peas, with pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon, or a little vinegar. Keep the cover of the stewpan off, and serve as soon as the peas are done. Simple Dish of Mutton.—Put a few steaks of mutton on to simmer for an hour, with a quarter of a pound of maccaroni, and a little water ; season with pepper, salt, cayenne, and chutney, and a table-spoonful of vinegar, or the juice of half a lemon. An unexceptionable Devil.—This is a favourite dish with the epicure after he has sacrificed sufficiently to the jolly god, and requires a little stimulant; or it may be partaken of with great gusto at a hunting break- fast. Mind you, a dry devil is as different from a wet one as are the poles asunder, and it is with the latter that we have now to do. Cut into joints cold turkey, fowl, or ducks—we won’t say game, for it destroys their flavour. Put the joints in a pan, with a moderate quantity of butter, and the best salad oil, with the following sauces :—mushroom ketchup, Harvey or Worcester, superlative and Chili vinegar, along with mustard, pepper, salt, and chutney, a moderate amount of cayenne, a few pickles cut in small pieces. Warm thoroughly, and serve hot, both from the fire and the sauce. . • An Irish Stew.—Take two pounds of mutton cut into fair pieces, and four pounds of potatoes ; peel the potatoes and cut them in half; six onions peeled and sliced. First put in the bottom of the saucepan a layer of potatoes, and then some of the meat and onions, a small spoonful of pepper, and two of salt. This dish must simmer, but not boil, for a couple of hours, when it will be found “ vary delicious,” as the Scotchman said when he ate the wrong end of the asparagus. Some use a little ham, but it overcomes the flavour of the mutton. The potatoes must not be too mealy, or they will mash together. A Toad in a Hole.—A pudding pie—a piece of meat baked in a dish of batter—is mentioned by Taylor in 1630. How this dish came to be called “a toad in a hole” we are unable to divine.—Things Not Generally Known. Marrow Bones.—Let the bones be sawn even. Put paste at the ends, and boil them until they are done, which will require nearly two hours. Serve on toasted bread, and send up a silver marrow-spoon and napkin for the helper to use. The dish must be sent up hot; cold marrow is decidedly objectionable.