Bbandt.— CXill -DRINKS. “ Brandy for heroes ! ” Burke could once exclaim; No doubt a liquid path to epic fame. The Inland; or, Christian and his Comrades. It appears to he Dr. Johnson who thus gave honour to cognac“ He was persuaded to take one glass of claret. He shook his head and said, ‘Poor stuff! No, sir; claret is the liquor for boys, port for men, but he who aspires to be a hero (smiliagj must drink brandy.’ ”—Boswell. Sherbet: a Persian cooling drink, prepared with the juices of fruit and water, variously sweetened and flavoured. Tavernier says that the sherbet the Turks most approve of, and which the Grand Siguor himself uses, is made of violets and sugar. The beverage was various sherbets, composed of the juice of boiled raisins, oranges, and pomegranates, squeezed through the rind.—Tally's “ Tripoli.” iTegus : wine and water, with sugar and nutmeg, named after Francis- Hegus, Esq., in the drinking days of George I. Mr. Negus was present at a drinking party of Whigs and Tories, and he recommended them to dilute their wine with water, as he did. Hence wine and water came to be designated negus; but Lever, in one of his works, makes a heroine (Miss Macan), when taken bad, call for that nondescript drink, whisky-negus. Sangaree, or Sangurorum,—The same liquor so called in our Eastern Empire. Mug : equal quantities of claret and soda-water. Sarsaparilla : a cooling drink now much in vogue, made from aerated water and a small quantity of sarsaparilla, bottled, or drank with soda- water. According to Dr. Pereira, there are two kinds, the mealy, and the non-mealy. We have the authority of Braude and Cooley, that it is a wholesome drink, and is recommended as a mild but efficacious altera- tive, diaphoretic, and tonic. It is the root of the similax sarsaparilla, and several varieties are imported from South America, but the best is the Jamaica or red kind. Glasgow Punch.—This beverage is made from cold water, the best Jamaica rum, loaf-sugar, and lemons ; and to give the proportionate quantity of each is quite an impossibility, for it all depends on the soft- ness of the water, the strength of the rum, and the acidity of the lemons, sugar being sweet all the world over. We have in our mind’s eye a Scotch friend, who was an fait at compounding this liquor, but he would not be hurried, and after a time, with many tastings, he managed to produce a bowl, in which the flavour of no one ingredient predominated ; and it certainly was very pretty and insidious tipple. This is one of the most healthy of drinks, for it has a bracing effect on the stomach, and the acid operates as a diuretic. Its daily use is a certain specific for the gout and rheumatism, more so than any quack medicine. The reason that the