163 BEER. pointed out an inferior article, with which he said he supplied the Colonies; but that did not satisfy the applicant, who was then shown the best variety, which he purchased largely ; and these were the hops used in the beer last in demand in Tasmania :— “ Lo! too—Sir John Barleycorn is here ! Stout, sound, and sparkling as his beer— i That beer we love so well. Hear how his merry tale and joke The laughter of the crowd provoke, And jovial echoes swell.” The historical Nelson motto is peculiarly appropriate to the best brewer— palmam qui meruit ferat. The great heat in the Australias is prejudicial to brewing and malting, but Tasmania, being situate in a milder climate, has an advantage ; besides, she is a large hop-growing country, which gives her a superiority over her sisters. As beer is more or less connected with eating, we are bound to give some short recipes for family brewing, although it will be seen, by dinners elsewhere described, that to a refined epicure malt at meals is decidedly a vulgar beverage. No one but a parvenu imbibes beer with choice viands; with those of a common- place character we may presume such drink is permissible. Poor •old Cobbett—all honour to him, for he was the type of a plain-spoken Englishman—did a world of good by teaching the poor how to brew in a kettle, on the same principle as tea-making. If you put into a tea-kettle a handful of malt, and fill it up with hot water, not quite boiling, and continue adding water, and pouring it out till it becomes tasteless, the strength of the malt will thus be extracted, just like the strength of the tea-leaves. The malt-tea boiled with a few hops, and when cooled to about blood-heat, having a little yeast added to it, to make it ferment, will pro- duce you a quantity of ale and beer according to the strength you have made it. Apply this principle, which is the whole art of brewing, and you cannot be far out. A peck of malt and four ounces of hops will produce ten quarts of ale better than you can purchase, and for this pur- pose you require a large kettle and two pans. For a larger quantity you must have a mash-tub and oar, a sieve, and two coolers, a wicket-hose, a spigot and faucet, with two nine-gallon casks. These will cost about £2 new, and you may brew four bushels of malt with them, and allowing four pounds of hops, th'3 will yield nine gallons of the best ale, and nine more of excellent table-beer. Beer, in London, is adulterated by almost every publican, and this truth is verified by the fact that the price which the publican pays the brewer would not leave a sufficient profit, unless adulteration took place. We wonder that more stringent laws are not made to prevent the sale of so much poisonous compounds; but it is satisfactory to make known that Dr. Hassall, when treating on this subject, states “ that no case of adulteration can be proved against any of our great London brewers.” Families would do well, therefore, to have their beer at first hands, or brew themselves, and the following is an excellent recipe for a small quantity :— To Make Strong Beer or Ale.—Twelve bushels of malt to the l 2