• 79 BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES. pieces and knead them in round balls. Stick the tops of them with a fork, .lay them in butter-pans, and set them to rise. They will be probably . light in an hour. When they are light, put them in a moderate oven and ’bake them. Apple Bread (Trench).—Take apples and flour, in the proportion of two parts of flour to one of apples mashed well together, and add a quantity of yeast, and allow it to rise a sufficient time. Very little water is required if the apples are juicy. In the country in France tliey make an excellent bread from flour and apples, baking it in long loaves, and they are very sweet and wholesome. Manchets (fine White Eolls).—The manchets are used in the Uni- versities of Oxford and Cambridge to this day, and the following recipes for their make appears in Nares’ “ Glossary: ”— Lady op Aetjndel’s Manchet.—1Take a bushel of white wheat flour, twenty eggs, three pounds of fresh butter; then take as much salt and barm as the ordinary manchet; temper it together with new milk pretty hot, then let it he the space of half an hour to rise, so as you may work it into bread, and bake it. Let not your oven be too hot.— True Gentlewoman's Delight, 1676. Take a quart of cream, put thereto a pound of beef suet minced small, put it into the cream, and season it with nutmeg, cinnamon, and rose-water; put to it eight eggs and but four whites, and two grated manchets; mingle them well together, and put them in a buttered dish, bake it, and being baked, scrape on sugar, and serve it.—The Queen’s Royal Cookery, 1713. Colonial Damper.—This bash fare is simply composed of flour and water, with a little salt, made into flat round pieces on bark, and baked in the ashes. All old colonists are expert in making damper. “Tea, damper, and mutton.” is a colonial institution, as the weary bush- man is fully aware of. The Camp Out.—At length their preparations were made. The fire burned up, the pot was on to boil, the flour, kneaded into a heavy dough, was placed to bake in the a3hes until the dough mass should have acquired the consistency that entitled it to its appropriate name of damper. Gilbert’s mug was made a tea-pot for the occasion ; and the two friends, thoroughly wearied, lit their short black pipes and reclined against their saddles, watching with considerable satisfaction the cooking of a savoury mess which was to constitute their meal—“ Good fo r Nothing,” in Fraser. Ash Cake.—Scald the meal, and put it in little heaps to cool, then mix it with more water (warm) into dough, and mould it into flat cakes rather larger than a breakfast saucer. These are baked as follows:— Open a place in the side of a wood fire on the hearth, and having put in the cakes, each between .wo cabbage leaves, lay them on the hot hearth, sprinkle some ashes lightly over first, then put hot coals on the top, and if these appear to cool fast, remove them from time to time, and replace them with hotter coals from the fire. Johnny Cake.—This is made in the same manner as ash cake, and baked before the fire ; first on one side, and then on the other. Pone Cake.—Made in the same way as the ash cake, and baked in a utensil much used in America, and in some parts of England—a round kettle standing on legs, with a lid fitting down, so that you may put hot