PRESERVES AND CONSERVES. 144 Carre and Co.’s patent economical freezing apparatus, for which the prize medal was awarded by the Exhibition of 1862, as well as a gold medal by the French Societe d’Encouragement, will produce a pound of ice at an expense of less than a farthing; will cost (including packing and accessories) not more than £6, and is invaluable in warm climates. LIV.—PRESERVES AND CONSERVES. ~ As the last taste of sweets is sweetest last.—Gaunt, in “Richard II." In making jams, jellies, or conserves of any kind, be sure to use the best sugar. It is bad economy to make them of an inferior article. There is another rule which we would press on the attention of the house- wife—for jams, never commence to boil fruit and sugar together. Boil the fruit first for about twenty or twenty-five minutes, and then put the sugar in, and boil, or jump it, as it is called, quickly. Jelly cannot be made to set firm and hard unless this mode is followed. A brass preserving, pan, rather shallow, with handles to it, is the best, but we have eaten good jam made in an iron pot. As a rule, a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit or juice is about the correct thing. This quantity may be reduced a little with sweet fruits. We shall only describe one mode, and then pro- ceed to the next subject. Eed Currant Jelly.—Put the fruit on the fire or hot plate, with a table-spoonful of water at the bottom of the pan, and boil for twenty ta twenty-five minutes, and pass the juice through a flannel jelly bag. To every pint of juice add a pound of sugar of the best kind, lteturn it to the pan, and boil quickly for a little better than ten minutes, or until the preserve sticks to the spoon. It is then done, and you have only to run it into pots or jelly glasses. Cover with paper, steeped in spirits of any kind, and use bladder for top covering. The above is the mode of making jelly, and it can be applied to strawberries, white- currants, raspberries, black currants, blackberry, cranberry, gooseberry, apple, pear, apricot, peach, quince, or, indeed, any fruit, with this difference, that if the fruit is not juicy, a little water must be added in the preserving pan. Easpberry Jam,—Weigh your fruit, and put it in the preserving pan to simmer or boil, in the same way as jelly. When the fruit has set, add a pound of sugar for each pound of fruit. Let it boil ten or twelve minutes, skim occasionally, and when it sticks to the spoon it is fit for the jar or pot. Every kind of jam and marmalade is made in this way—green gooseberry (the best of any), currants, plums (the stones being taken out and the kernels added); some with peaches, nectarines, and apricots. With apples, pears, and quinces, they must be peeled and cored, and a little lemon-juice added; cherries, oranges, strawberries, and rhubarb. If the fruit is dry, such as apples and quinces, a little water must be used. Colonial Jam and Molasses.—Take any quantity of mangold, wash and pare them; then grate on a coarse grater, and express the juice through a cheese cloth ; add to the juice obtained about one-third of its bulk of grated carrot, and simmer gently for about forty-eight hours ; a