134 STOVES saying1, that coffee without tobacco is meat without drink. — Preliminary Discourse Sale’s “Koran.” The coffee, as dispensed at the Cafe de Paris, at Melbourne, in Victoria, was unexceptionable in flavour, and served hot. The gargon brought in a large-sized white stone china cup and saucer, and after putting before the visitor, on a little marble table, a small basin of white crystallised sugar, the grains of which sparkled in the gaslight, proceeded to pour simultaneously into the cup two jets of coffee and milk from silver ewers. We question whether the city on the banks of the Seine could supply mocha better made or served, and for the same price—sixpence. The most esteemed coffee is that of Mocha. It has a small and a. rounder bean; a more agreeable taste and smell than any other. Its colour is yellow. Next to it in European reputation are the Martinique and Bourbon coffees. The former is larger than the Arabian, and more- obloDg ; it is rounded at the ends ; its colour is greenish ; and it preserves almost always a silver-grey pellicle, which comes off' in the roasting. The Bourbon coffee approaches nearest to the mocha, from which it originally sprung. The St. Domingo coffee has its two extremities pointed, and it is much less esteemed than the preceding.— Ure. Coffee Beneficial.—Coffee is saicl to be an antidote to tbe gout and rheumatism. A case is mentioned in the “ Pharmaceutical Journal,” of a gentleman having had the gout for twenty years who was completely cured by the use of coffee. In asthma it has been found particularly serviceable, and it is extolled in gangrene of the extremities in drunkards. Calculous complaints are scarcely known in Prance and Turkey, where coffee is the principal beverage of the people. M. Devereaux was cured of gout off twenty-five years’ standing, accompanied by chalk stones, by taking coffee freely (Du Pour); and Sir John Floyer was cured of asthma, after sixty years of suffering, by the like simple means. “I have myself seen several cases in which coffee was really useful” (Laennec). Brande writes, that coffee is exhilarating, and operates on many persons as an aperient, owing to the caffeine contained in it. Vanilla gives coffee a per- fumed flavour; and, according to “ Le Manuel de l’Amateur de Cafo,” isinglass or hartshorn shavings are used to clarify it; but this addition injures the aroma. Plenty of good cream with coffee is highly nutritious. The “Medical Reporter ” says, that a consumptive patient, under treatment, is now taking cream with better effect than was experienced under the cod-liver oil previously tried. This latter journal further ob- serves, “Our advice is, for all who have, or think they have, consumption, to adopt a. cream diet. Eat the pure cream abundantly, as much of it as the stomach will digest well, and we doubt not that it will prove as effective as the finest cod-liver oil that can be bought; ” and, the editor should have added, far more agreeable to take. Dr. Livingstone tells us, that sugar is cultivated in the Shore Valley, as well as many parts of Africa near the Zambesi, and that it may be purchased at a halfpenny per pound 1 LXVIII.—STOVES. La bonne cuisine se fait toujours a petit feu.—Dialogues sur la Gastronomic. We must say a few words on stoves, as they are intimately connected with the cuisine. The “ Curiosities of London ” has it, that the kitchen range which is used for the Lord Mayor’s dinner is some sixteen feet long, and seven feet high. For a small establishment the best range is that called the “ Newark,” and for a large family, the “ Improved Leamington Kitchener” is recommended. The first range merely contains an oven,.