BEER. 164 hogshead for beer, and eight for ale; fbr either pour the whole quantity hot, but not boiling, on at once, and let it infuse three hours, being covered; mash it in the first half-hour, and let it stand the remainder of the time. Run it on the hops, previously infused in water ; for strong beer, three-quarters of a pound to a bushel; if for ale, half a pound. Boil them with the wort two hours from the time it begins to boil. Cool a pailful to add two quarts of yeast to, which will prepare it for putting to the rest when ready next day; but if possible, put them together the same night. Tun as usual. Cover the bung-hole with paper when the beer has done working; and when it is to be stopped, have ready a pound and a half of hops dried before the fire, put them into the bung-liole, and fasten it up. After the beer or ale has run from the grains, you can make table-beer of a similar quantity. This ale and beer will keep for years. Note.—Our housekeeper tells us that a poor widow in his neighbourhood fitted up a brewery for the sum of Is. 6d. A butter-tub, price 9d., is her mash-tub, three half- tubs of smaller size (at 3d. each) are her coolers. With these she brews half a bushel of molt at a time, and declares that she finds her home-brewed ale “very comfortable indeed.”—Home-brewed Ale by a Housekeeper, 1804. The cheap beer sold in many taverns in London is made by dividing the contents of two butts between three butts, and adding a bladder of porter extract (technically called P. E.) to each. This P. E. is a mixture of powdered eoculus, roasted quassia, Spanish uiice, pearlash, burnt sugar, &c., boiled up with treacle and sugar to the consistence of a thin extract, and put into bullocks’ bladders.—Medical Circular. Sugar Beer.—Very good sugar beer is made from eight pounds of brown sugar, a pound and three-quarters of hops, and six gallons of water. Pour boiling water on the sugar, and boil the hops; and when cool, add half a cup of yeast. Sugar Beer without Yeast.—Boil from a quarter to half a pound of hops, according to taste, in two and a half gallons of water. Strain the water from the hops on six pounds and a quarter of brown sparkling sugar to dissolve it. Bruise and boil a quarter of a pound of ginger, add to it two and a half gallons of cold water, and fill up a five-gallon keg. Put in the tap, and bung it up tight; in a week the beer will be fit to drink, and continue brisk to the last. Siftings Beer.—A very pleasant and sharp drink is made in many parts of the Colonies by simply pouring boiling water on bran, adding sugar, and yeast to ferment; and before it has quite done working, bottling it for use. A late writer states, that Belgium has for ages been celebrated for its beer. The finest is brewed in Louvain, where 200,000 casks are made annuaUy, and that this liquor is more ■drank in Bavaria than any other country. The late king was so fond of this drink as to be personaUy acquainted with the interior of every beer-shop in his capital, and when you see a Bavarian peasant not working, you are sure to find him with a beer-can in his hand. Yet there is no sign of poverty in the country, nor any drunken people to be seen, so that, according to this theory of domestic economy, a country is more or less prosperous according to the malt liquor imbibed by its inhabitants. The Continental peasants have carried their habits to America, where the lager beer is made and in general use. A Tasmanian colonist travelling on the Continent of Europe has described to us the Vienna beer as remarkably pure, good, wholesome, and reasonable in price. Porter.—Before the year 1730 the malt liquors in general use in London were ale-, beer, and twopenny; and it was customary to call for a pint, or tankard, of half-and- Lalf, i. e., half of ale and half of beer. In course of time it also became the practice to