BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES. 5T cut it into cakes, pinch the edges, stick shoes of candied lemon-peel and carraway comfits on the top, and bake on plates in a moderate oven. Soda Oakes.—Six ounces of butter rubbed into one pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of currants, three-quarters of an ounce of carraway-seeds, a tea-spoonful of soda dissolved in a little warm water, and mixed with new milk to make a pint. Bake au hour, putting it in the oven as soon as possible after mixing. Buttermilk Breakfast Oakes.—Take half a pint of buttermilk, add to it sufficient flour to make it into dough, in which a tea-spoon half full of bi-carbonate of soda is well mixed. Bake quickly, and butter hot. The only requisite in these cakes is to put them in the oven or on the .girdle as soon as the soda and buttermilk have come in contact. About the middle of the last century hardly any wheat was used in the northern counties of England. In Cumberland, the principal families used only a small quantity about Christmas. The crust of the goose pie, with which almost every table in the country as then supplied, was, at the period referred to, almost uniformly made of barley meal. —Eden on the Poor. In many parts of England it is the custom for private families to bake their own bread. This is particularly the case in Kent, and in some parts of Lancashire. In 1804 there was not a public baker in Manchester, and their number is still limited.— M'Cvlloch’s Commercial Dictionary. For some time public attention has been drawn to an odious fraud committed by a great many bakers in the north of Prance and of Belguim—the introduction of a certain quantity of sulphate of copper into their bread. When the flour was made from bad grain, this adulteration was very generally practised, as was proved by many convictions and confessions of the guilty persons. When the dough does not rise well in the fer. mentation, this inconvenience was found to be obviated by the addition of blue vitriol, which was supposed also to cause the flour to retain more water. The quantity of blue vitriol added is extremely small, and it is never done in the presence of strangers, 'because it is reckoned a valuable secret. Lime-water has been recommended by Liebig as a means of improving the bread made from inferior flour, or of flour slightly damaged by keeping. It was tried with success at Glasgow in 1855, still we should deprecate the use of lime-water. To allow articles of food to be tampered with, under any circum- stances, is a dangerous practice, and Liebig himself has said that chemists should never propose the use of chemical products for culinary preparations.—Ure’s Dictionary. A Scholar Baking his “Daily Bread.”—I was told an amusing story of an Oxford man shepherding down in Otago. Some one came into his hut, and, taking up a book, found it in a strange tongue, and inquired what it was. The Oxonian (who was baking at the time) answered that it was “ Machiavellian Discourses upon the First Decade of Livy.” The wonder-stricken visitor laid down the book and took up an- other, which was, at any rate, written in English. This he found to be Bishop Butler’s “ Analogy.” Putting it down speedily, as something not in his line, he laid hands upon a third. This proved to be “ Patrum Apostolicorum Opera,” on which he saddled his horse and went right away, leaving the Oxonian to his baking.—Butler's “First Tear in the Canterbury Settlement Sally Limns.—Two pounds of fine flour, two table-spoons of yeast, with a little warm water. This must be put to rise in half an horn. Put two ounces of butter and the yolk of an egg in as much new milk as -will make it a proper stiffness. Mix ail well up, and, when risen, bake in a quick oven. The bun so fashionable, called Sally Limn, originated with a young woman of that name at Bath about thirty years ago. She cried them in a basket, with a white cloth over it, morning and evening. Dalrner, a respectable baker and musician, noticed her, bought her business, and made a song and set it to music on behalf of Sally Lunn. This composition became the street favourite; barrows were made to distribute the -nice calces. Dalrner profited thereby, and retired; and to this day the Sally^Lunn cakes claim pre-eminence in all the cities of England.—Hone’s “Every-day Book."