DINNER PARTY PRECEDENCE. 128 of white fish—such as cod or soles—a very useful change. Nothing dis- orders the stomach of man more than keeping to one diet; “ tovjours perdrix” is enough to tire any one even of so good a fare; and this is constantly to be borne in mind by the trainer. The round he can make is not very extensive, but let him by all means stretch it to the utmost limits of which it is capable. It is even desirable to give an occasional pudding, but it should always have bread for its foundation. A good cook will always make a very palatable pudding of bread, with a little milk and an egg or two, and this served up with fresh green gooseberries boiled, or any common preserve, is by no means disagreeable to the palate or unwholesome to the stomach ; but let it be only as a change, not as otherwise useful. The grand articles of diet are beef and mutton, with bread or porridge, and, if the stomach and palate would accept them gratefully, no change would be necessary, but as they seldom will, the best plan- is not to attempt too much.—“ British Rural Sports," by Stonehenge. ! Arrowroot.—Arrowroot forms an agreeable, non-irritable article of diet, for invalids and children, in the form of cakes, biscuits, or puddings ; or boiled with milk or water, and flavoured with sugar, spices, lemon-juice, or wine, at pleasure. For young children, a little carraway or cinnamon-water is to be preferred. It is especially useful in irritation or debility of the stomach, bowels, or urinary organs, and in all cases in which a demul- cent or emollient is indicated. It must not, however, be employed to the entire exclusion of other food, as, being destitute of the nitrogenous elements of nutrition, it is incapable alone of supporting life. Arrowroot jelly is prepared by first rubbing the powder up with a very small quantity of cold water, and then gradually adding the remainder boiling, stirring well all the time. Beef tea, veal broth, or milk may be used instead of water. Some persons boil it for a few minutes. This jelly is flavoured with a little genuine port wine and nutmeg, and is almost a specific in cases of simple diarrhoea arising from habit or debility.—Cooley. XLV.—DINNER PARTY PRECEDENCE. Good suitor, let us dine, and never fret.—Luciana, in the “ Comedy of Errors." There is really no precedence for commoners. A colonel in the army, a captain R.N., and a deputy lieutenant (not a J. P.), all rank the same, according to the dates of their commissions; and custom in dinner parties gives them precedence to clergymen, though not in the court returns of a levee. It is customary to give commoners rank according to their social position, say as regards wealth or acknowledged talents in their country. Esquire is only indefinite from every one assuming to themselves the title. Barristers, colonels, majors, captains, M.A.’s, magis- trates, and deputy-lieutenants are esquires by right of title. Attorneys, yeomen, &c., are simply gentlemen, and liable to serve on sessions, grand juries, special juries of assizes, and the offices of constable and overseer. I apprehend “ Country House ” will find few heart-burnings amongst his male guests. The “dear ladies” feel it most, and then let them hark back to the covers of Sir B. Burke. A baronet’s daughter or grand-daughter takes precedence of a commoner’s daughter or grand- daughter. Officers on half-pay always retain their rank; and military