WINES. 177 .profusion of the sparkling Ay, the perfumed Avise, or the limpid Sillery ; these beiDg the wines Viscount Chelsea favourably reported on. Besides, another advantage to be derived from a bountiful supply of the wines of the Marne, the ladies are generally prevailed upon to take an extra glass. When they have left the dinner table, the masculine sex may revel in the .stronger Hermitage, Cote Rotie, or Clos Vougert; and, before we leave the subject of wines, we must call the attention of the Amphitryon to the ■poet’s reminder:— I hate a lingering bottle, Which with the landlord makes too long a stand. Leaving all claretless the unmoistened throttle ; Especially with politics on hand. Note.—Since the above was written, the report of the jury upon the wines and spirits exhibited in 1862 has been issued, and as nearly 8,000 samples had to be carefully examined, the lateness of the report is satisfactorily accounted for. Respecting the samples submitted from the Australian colonies, the jury say:—“We find these wines of the character of the German wines; others again more resembling the French wines, while some have the substance and body of the wines of Spain. With care and time there is every prospect of the colonies becoming the great wine-growing countries of that part of the world.” At the Great Exhibition in Paris in 1851, wine made from the mus- •cat grape, at Camden, ranked high among the best wines of the Con- tinent ; and it has, as well as other wines grown in the Hunter River district and other parts of the colony, obtained like favourable mention at the Great Exhibition of 1862 in London. As Sir R. Bourke’s opinion •on any subject will be held in respect in New South Wales, I may here insert a passage from one of his letters to me on the defect he noticed in the mode of making wine in the colony :— “ It seemed to me,” he says, “ what was wanting was to cultivate the vine so as to obtain the ripening of the fruit later in the season. I noticed the neglect of this salutary precaution at the vintage of Sir John Jamison, at Regentville, and elsewhere, near Sydney. Coming in, as the fruit did, at the very hottest season of the year, it was impossible to moderate the fermentation and preserve the strength of the liquor. I have no doubt this defect might easily be corrected. The grapes were, I think, the finest I ever tasted; and, by paying attention to this and other points which experience will inculcate in the cultivation of the grape and the manufacture of wine, New South Wales must assuredly become a great and abundant wine-producing country.”—Therry's “ New South Wales and Victoria." Victorian Wines.-A late important sale of wines grown and manufactured in the Sandhurst district, took place at the Shamrock Hotel, Pall Mall. The wines sub- mitted were the produce of Mr. George Bruhn’s vineyard, at the Emu Creek, and were S"me of them awarded prizes at the Bendigo Agricultural and Horticultural Shows, in 1861, 1862, and 1863. Seventy-five casks, comprising upwards of 3,000 gallons, wero offered. ^ The Reisling and Scyras were most approved of; and the Chasselas and Hambro’ were generally of a superior flavour. The wines were superior to the 'Bering wines offered for sale in Melbourne. No. 5 Reisling was sold at 6s. 9d., for trans- mission to England. The white wine averaged 4s. 8d. per gallon, aud the red, 6s. 5d. Mr. Bruhn expects next year to have 6,000 gallons of wine, superior to that now dis- posed of.—Extract Jrom the Bendigo Advertiser. The first of a series of further sales of Australian wines, which attracted a large attendance, was hold. Of the Victorian wino ■(free of duty), Chasselas realised 4s. 6d. per gallon; Gonais, 5s.; Tokay, 7s.; Pinean M *