EGGS. 170 Omelette Souffle,—Put the yolks of six eggs into a basin and the ■whites into another, with a little rasped lemon-peel, a spoonful of orange- flower water, some powdered sugar, and a little salt; whip the yolks into a froth ; mix the yolks and whites lightly together; then put a lump of fresh butter into an omelette pan, and, when it boils, pour the omelette into the pan ; when the bottom of it has become firm, turn it over into the dish to be baked in, the sides of which may be raised with paper. Bake it in an oven or before the fire. The moment it has risen, it must be sent to table, or it will sink. This is a far-famed Parisian dish. The cookery aphorism is peculiarly applicable to all souffles—"Better the quests wait a little for the dish, than the dish, when done, wait for the guests.” Omelette aux Confitures.—Beat up the yolks and whites of six eggs separate; add to the yolks a little grated lemon-peel; then add the whites, and beat the whole well together, adding a little cream, two spoonfuls of orange or apple marmalade, apricot or gooseberry jam, cur- rant jelly, or any preserve. Fry and finish in the same way as a sugar omelette. The French are said to have several hundred modes of dressing eggs; but the more simple manner they are cooked the more nourishment they afford, according to medical authority. The most delicate eggs are those of the turkey, guinea-fowl, and plover. To Keep Eggs.—Eggs varnished with lac and spirits of wine will keep good for twelve months accordiug to M. Iteumeur; while M. Gagne states that a paste made of lime, salt, and cream of tartar, in the pro- portion of one bushel of lime, two pounds of salt, and eight ounces, of cream of tartar, adding a sufficient quantity of water, will keep eggs fresh for two years. It is said that they will keep eight or ten months in dry salt. Ure writes, that eggs coated with gum-arabic, and packed in charcoal, will keep good for a year ; and that lime-water, or milk of lime, is another eligible mode. For long sea voyages, the surest mode of pre- serving eggs is to dry up the albumen and yolk by first triturating them into a homogeneous paste; then evaporating this in an air stove, or a water bath, heated to 125 degrees, and putting up the dried mass in vessels which may be made air- tight. When used, it should be dissolved in three parts of cold or tepid water. Native Eggs.—The ibis, or bran’s eggs, have been procured in great numbers. These eggs are of a white colour, rather sharp at one end, and about the size of a turkey’s egg. The albumen is, however, quite different from that of any other egg, being, even when boiled, pellucid, gelatinous, and fat in appearance, and very small in quantity compared with the yolk. On the whole this egg may be pronounced not par- ticularly palatable, and will never be used except as a makeshift, when neither hen nor duck eggs can be procured.—Sydney Morning Herald Dinner in the Manner op the Ancients. — This here, gentlemen, is a boiled goose, served up in a sauce composed of pepper, loyage, coriander, mint, rue, ancho- vies, and oil! I wish, for your salces, gentlemen, it was one of the geese of Ferrara, so much celebrated among the ancients for the magnitude of their livers, one of which is said to have weighed upwards of two pounds ; with this food, exquisite as it was, did the tyrant Heliogabalus regale his hounds. But, I beg pardon, I had almost forgot the soup, which, I bear, is so necessary an article at all tables in France. At each end there are dishes of the sulacnbacia of the Romans; one is made of parsley, pennyroyal, cheese, pine tops, honey, vinegar, brine, eggs, cucumbers, onions, and hen livers; the