41 CONDIMENTS. with truffles) is considered by gourmets as one of the first dishes in gastronomy. M. Brillat Savarin, the author of the “ Philosophy of Taste ” whom we have so often quoted, declares (and we are bound to defer to his authority)—“ La trufi'e est le demait de la cuisine.” Bay.—This is a species of laurel, and the leaves are used to flavour ■custards, and other dishes: but the cook must be cautious not to use the leaves of the cherry-laurel, which are poisonous. Saffron: a root, the flowers of which are merely used for colouring yellow; extensively used in cookery in the East, as well as in Spain and Portugal. It takes 40,000 flowers to yield a pound, and it was used as a colouring matter in early days, as the bard has it—“ I must have saffron, to colour the Warden pies.” Anglica, commonly called angelica, is the stalk of a plant, used in the confectionery line for preserving, as well as being candied. Vanilla is the produce of a climbing tree, and its pod. It is em- ployed to give a perfume to different articles of confectionery; and is elsewhere observed on. Sugar is the expressed juice of the cane of its name, and is used extensively in the cuisine. In France it is prepared mostly from beet- root, and the sugar assumes the appearance of honeycomb. The mode- rate use of sugar gives a mellowness to different dishes. In America a large quantity of sugar is obtained from the sap of the maple. Honey was used instead of sugar until the fifteenth century ; and beverages were made of it, called mead, metheglin, pigment, and moret. Sugar is the sweet constituent of vegetable and animal products.—Tiro. Orange is a fruit grown in all warm climates. The juice is a sweet acid of a pleasant nature. Avenzoar magnifies the juice of a pomegranate, if it be sweet, and especially rose- water, which he would have to be used in every dish: which they put in practice in those hot countries about Damascus, where (if we may believe the relationf of Vertomannus) many hogsheads of rose-water are to be sold in the market at once, it is in so great request with them.—Burton’s “ Cure of Melancholy. ’’ Orange Flowers : a distillation from the flower, much used in cakes and confectionery. Verjuice is the expressed juice of the unripe grape, fermented. In England the juice of the crab-apple is so termed. It is often used for various dishes in preference to vinegar. Olive is a fruit of the tree of the same name. It is pickled, for use ; ■and the olive pressed, produces the valuable vegetable oil so much used. Arrowroot.—This is the powder of a tree grown in tropical climates, and is used as a thickening; it is also boiled for invalids, being highly nutritious.