COFFEE. 182 The Sighs of Love.—Spirit, water, and sugar, as above. Perfume with otto of roses, and slightly colour with cochineal. Absinthe.—Take of the tops of wormwood, four pounds; root of angelica, calamus aromaticus, aniseed, leaves of dittany, of each one ounce; alcohol, four gallons. Macerate these substances during eight days, add a little water, and distil by a gentle fire, until two gallons are obtained. This is reduced to a proof spirit, and a few drops of the oil of aniseed added. Ratafia is the generic name, in France, of liqueurs compounded with alcohol, sugar, and the odoriferous or flavouring principle of vegetables. Bruised cherries with their stones are infused in spirit of wine to make the ratafia de Teyssere. The liquor being boiled and filtered, is flavoured, when cold, with spirit of noyeau, made by distilling water off the bruised bitter, kern els of apricots, and mixing it with alcohol. Syrup of bay, laurel, and galanga are also added.— lire.. The foreign liqueurs are principally maraschino de Zara, Amsterdam, curaqoa, pine-apple ditto, kirschwasser, kiimmel, anisette de Bordeaux, cherry ratafia, eau de vie de Dantzic, Dantzic cherry brandy, Copenhagen ditto, aqua d’oro, and aqua d’argento, creme de noyeau (red and white), vanille, rose and Venus, l’amour, d’absinthe, de Canelle, fine orange, d’Ananas, de the, and de cafe. Spirituous Liqueurs.—As a liqueur, Hennessy and Co.’s cognac is deservedly in liigli favour in the Colonies, from tlie purity and goodness of the spirit; and it is known from their label of the “battle-axe" crest, registered at Stationers’ Hall, London. Also Kinahan’s celebrated Irish LL whisky, which is a potent though mild spirit, and is held in delight by every connoisseur—the attraction of every festive board; the corks of which liqueur have a ducal coronet impressed on them, from the time that a lord-lieutenant of that rank honoured it with his patronage. Then we have Browning’s, and Crosse’s and Blackwell’s Old Tom; Sir Kobert Burnett's glass-stoppered ditto; Hay’s old islay; and Cambleton’s whisky; Thin and Kirkleston’s, and Meehan’s old Irish ; Martell’s, The United Vineyard Company’s, and Otard, Dupuy, and Co.’s brandies. LXVII-COFFEE. Coffee—which makes the politician wise. And see through all things with his half-shut eyes— Sent up in vapours to the baron’s brain New stratagems, the radiant Lock to gain.—Pope. We are of accord with many authors, that coffee promotes digestion and exhilarates the spirits ; that, drank in moderation, especially if com- bined with sugar and milk, it is one of the most wholesome beverages known. It must be fresh roasted and fresh ground, and a common per- colator is, of all the modes of preparing it, the most simple. Use the best coffee—have it ground, if not burnt on the establishment—and put into the percolator one part in twelve of good chicory. Chicory is by no means unwholesome, but mind it is not adulterated. The extent to which the system of adulteration is carried in every consumable article is a dis- grace to the trading community, and a reflection on the age in which we