CONFECTIONERY. 110 there until it becomes sour and coagulated. The whey is then drawn oh and fresh cream added; and when it is brought to table it is eaten with sugar, and, m the strawberry season, with that fruit. Gooseberry Fool. Blanch a quart of gooseberries, closely covered with sufficient water to pulp them; beat six eggs, and add them to a pint oi cream some use milk—a table-spoonful of orange-flower water spice and sugar to sweeten ; stir it over a fire till of a proper thickness dish and sift powdered white sugar on the top. Gooseberry Trifle.—Proceed as above with a quart of gooseberries and pass them through a sieve; then place them at the bottom of a dish • add sugar and a little nutmeg. Mix half a pint of cream with the same quantity of milk, and the yolk of an egg ; scald it over the fire, and stir it; add a little sugar, and let it cool. Pour over the gooseberries a whip made the day before of a pint of cream, two eggs, lemon-peel to flavour a little, and sugar. Suecloise of Peaches.—Pare and divide four ripe peaches, and let them simmer for about five minutes in a syrup made with the third of a pint of water and three ounces of white sugar; lift them out carefully into a deep dish, and pour half the syrup over them, and into the remaining half put a couple of pounds of ripe peaches, and boil them to marmalade. Lift the other peaches from the syrup, and reduce it by boiling more than half. Spread a deep layer of marmalade in a dish, and arrange the peaches round it, and fill the places with the marmalade; place the half of a blanched peach kernel on each, pour the reduced syrup equally over the surface, and form a border round the dish with maca- roons ; or, instead, candied citron, sliced thin, and cut into leaves with a paste-cutter. A little lemon-juice added is a great improvement. Syllabub.—Whipped syllabub is made of a strong whip, as for trifle; then mix a pint of cream, with half a pint of wine; sugar and flavour with the juice and grated peel of a lemon, and a little cinnamon. Stir briskly, and fill the glasses sufficiently to put some of the whip on the top of each glass. Staffordshire syllabub is made in a similar way, with a pint of cider, and a glass of brandy and grated nutmeg ; and Somerset- shire is made from port wine and sherry, and over the top is strewed grated nutmegs and different kinds of comfits. Lemon syllabub is made in a similar way, with the squeezed juice of half a dozen lemons. Swiss Cream.—Flavour with lemon-peel a pint of cream; add six ounces of white sugar, put the cream and sugar into a saucepan, and, when simmering, add, by degrees, two tea-spoonfuls of flour ; let it simmer for five minutes, stirring it all the time; pour it out, and when cold mix with it, by degrees, the juice of two lemons. Take a quarter of a pound of macaroons, put them in a dish, and pour over them a glass of white wine; then part of the cream, then the macaroons, and cream again ; ornament the dish with sliced citron or iced lemon-peel. Spanish Cream.—Boil in half a pint of water an ounce of isinglass