35 GRAVIES. and turn the onions until lightly browned. Now stir in gradually half an ounce of flour, with a little stock, and pepper and salt, simmer for a short time, and add a table-spoonful of ketchup. Garlic Gravy.—Cut a pound of beef into small pieces, pepper and salt it, and put it into a stewpan, with a couple of carrots, and four cloves of garlic, sliced, a quarter of a pound of ham, and a little water. Put it over a slow fire, and turn the meat when it sticks. When it is browned, dredge it with flour, and add a quart of stock, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little spice, and the slice of a lemon. Let it simmer for an hour, take oft' the fat, and strain. Gravy for Boast Meats.—Joints of mutton or beef—if the meats are mellow and juicy—require no gravy, other than a little hot wrater, with a little salt in it, poured over the meat. Shalot Gravy.—A few drops of shalot vinegar, to a pint of gravy, will give one of the finest flavours in cookery. Giblet Gravy.—A rich gravy may be made from giblets by letting them simmer for about three hours, with an onion, pepper and salt, and a thickening of a little flour, with the squeeze of a lemon. To Clarify Gravy.—Put on the stock in a stewpan, break an egg, and use the white and the shell; heat them together, put them into the .stock, stir it with a whisk. When it has simmered for a short time, strain through a tarnis. Gravy without any Meat.—Mix half a pint of beer, the same quan- tity of water, with pepper, salt, lemon peel, a couple of cloves, and two spoonfuls of walnut or mushroom ketchup, together. Flour and skin an onion or two, and fry it in butter until brown. Then put the mixture into a stewpan, and simmer it for a quarter of an hour, and it is fit for use. Genteel Economy.—A certain lady, whose taste is equal to her economy, was under the necessity of asking a friend to dinner. The following is a bill of fare, and expense of each dish which was found on the table :— s. d. At top, 2 herrings 0 1 Middle, 1? oz. of butter, melted 0 $ Bottom, 3 mutton chops, cut thin 0 2 One side, 1 lb. small potatoes 0 % On other sid , pickled cabbage 0 £ Pish removed, two larks, plenty of crumbs 0 l| Mutton removed, French roll boiled for pudding 0 i Parsley for garnish 0 4 0 7 The dinner was served up on china, looked light, tasty, and pretty; the table small, and the dishes well proportioned. We hope each newly-married lady will keep this as a lesson ; it is worth knowing how to serve up seven dishes, consisting of a dish of fish, mutton, couple of birds, pudding, vegetables, and sauce, for sevenpcnce!—Newspaper Scrap.