21 MADE DISIIES. Scotch Oollops.—jSTo cold meat will make this favourite disk in per- fection. Cut beef iu pieces of about half an inch square ; flour them and fry until half done. Then remove the collops and put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of stock; add an onion cut up small, ketchup, pepper, and salt, with a dessert-spoonful of lemon acid. Let it simmer until done, and on no account must it be done too much. To give time to cook this dish in perfection, as some works have it, is simply ludicrous. Turkish Pilau.—This dish, as made at Constantinople, is as follows : —According to the number of guests, take mutton, fowls, or pigeons, boil them until half done, then put the meat and broth into a basin. Cut the half-cooked meat into pieces, and put them into a pot, with some butter, and fry them of a light brown colour. The necessary quantity of rice, being well washed, it is then placed over the meat in the pot, and the broth is poured over the rice till it is covered to a full finger’s depth ; then cover the pot, and keep a clear fire under it, until the rice is done; when cover the top of the pot with a cloth folded, and melt some butter and pour in. Cover it again, and let it simmer ; pepper and salt. It is served in dishes, with the meat arranged at the top. One dish may be of its natural colour, white; another made yellow with saffron ; and a third red, with pomegranate juice. Sheep’s Trotters en Marinade.—Sheep’s feet are generally thrown away in Australia, although they make an excellent dish stewed, and are delicate for jelly. For the present dish they must be well cleaned, and boiled in water. Steep them a day in vinegar and salt; drain them, and fry them with egg and bread crumbs, until of a good colour. Sheep’s Head and Fry.—This is one of the best dishes made; take the head, and, after being well cleaned, parboil it. Then egg and crumb it well, and put it before the fire to brown, or in an oven. Mince the liver, the heart and tongue, and add to it a small quantity of stock, or good gravy ; add pepper and salt, with the squeeze of a lemon, a little ketchup, and let it simmer. Fry the brains in thick batter. Put the mince in the dish, the head in the centre, and round the dish the brain fritters. The ingredients of this dish are generally thrown away in Aus- tralia ; but let this conjoint mince, fritters, and browned head be once tried, and it will be discarded no longer. Lamb’s head is of course more tender. The sheep and lamb’s fry are very good, fried with bacon, and a little gravy served with them, or brown sauce. French Bagont of Mutton.—Put in a saucepan a quarter of a pound of dripping; when hot, cut into small pieces a dozen turnips, put them into the dripping, and brown. Take them out, and put into the fat a quarter of a pound of flour; stir it until brown. Cut up three pounds of mutton into small pieces, and put in the saucepan, and add sufficient water to cover the meat. When the mutton is nearly done, add the tur- nips, season with a tea-spoonful of salt, one of pepper, and one of brown sugar, and a little garlic. A ragout of veal or lamb may be done in a similar way.