WATER. 09 If you wish to cleanse and fatten oysters for tlie table, place them on their flat sides in a pan or tub, which fill up with salt water, or, if fresh, with a handful of salt in it. Five ounces to the gallon is the proportion. This water should be changed every twenty- four hours, and a handful of flour, barleynieal, or oatmeal, with the same quantity of wheaten bran, added. In about a week they will be eatable. The poet tells us that— " Eggs, oysters too are amatory food, But who is their purveyor from above ? Heaven knows, it may be Neptune, Pan, or Jove." Oyster day, on St. James’s day (July 25, old style), came in in London; and there is a popular notion that whoever eats oysters on that day will never want money for the rest of the year. Yet this does not accord with another popular conceit in Butter’s *' Dry Dinner,” 1599 : “ It is unseasonable and unwholesome in all months that have not an r in their name to eat an oyster.”—Notes and Queries. Omelettes aux Unities.—Scald some oysters, and put two-thirds in a stewpan, with a little butter, and moisten them with some of their own liquor and some conlis, with a little pepper. Take care the oysters are well done; break a dozen eggs, season them with salt, parsley, chopped, and pepper; then have some sippets of bread, about the size of lialf-a- crown; give two or three blows of a knife to the oysters that remain, and put into the beaten eggs, with some cream; beat them all together, and pour your omelette into a pan, with melted butter ; stir it till well done; put the oysters and their sauce in the dish; roll your omelette in the fryingpau, and serve in the middle of the ragout of oysters. Oyster, Lat., osirca, "an oyster.” This name is generally understood to signify tlie species of ostracean bivalve called ostrea edulis, which is one of a numerous genus, characterised, by an equivalve shell, composed of two irregular lamellated valves, of which the convex or under one adheres to rocks, piles, or the shell of another individual. The animal is unprovided with either a byssus or foot; it is the best flavoured of its class, and has, consequently, been always much esteemed.—Brands. XXII-WATER. In general, the number of rainy days is greatest near the sea, and decreases in pro- portion the farther we penetrate into the interior. On the eastern side of Ireland it rains 208 days in the year; in the Netherlands, 170; in England, Prance, the North of Germany, and the Gulf of Finland, on 152 to 155 days ; in the plateau of Germany, on 131; and in Poland, on 158 days; while on the plains of the Volga, at Kasean, it rains on 90; and in the interior of Siberia, only on 60 days of the year. In Western Europe it rains on twice as many days as in Eastern Europe; in Ireland on three times as many days as in Italy and the South of Spain.—Johnston's “Physical Atlas." In many parts of England, and almost throughout the Australian, nothing is felt so much as the want of pure water. It is required for every purpose in life, and that which is the purest is obtained from tlie atmosphere. Rain water is of all others the softest. Brande tells us, ‘•that, of all water, rain water, carefully and cleanly collected, is most pure.” Ur. Paris writes that rain water is the purest natural water, being produced, as it were, by natural distillation. A house with a slate or corrugated iron roof avould always supply more than sufficient water for the establishment without filtration. The average fall of rain is generally known in the part of the country, and the catch could be easily calculated