6 BROTHS. simmer for five or six hours. This will make a savoury and economical repast for six or eight persons, with a modicum amount of the staff of life. Mind invariably to eat plenty of bread -with soup; it is not wholesome without. According to the defined rules of gastronomy, no dinner is perfect without soup—it is fche overture to the performance ; and after it. has been taken it must be followed by a glass of wine, which, according to the proverb, deprives the doctor of his fee. Mulligatawny Soup.—This is simply curry soup, made from fowl, as follows, and is a favourite in the East Indies. Fry a few onions of a brown colour, put a few slices of bacon into the stewpan, cut a fowl up in moderate pieces, and brown them ; put in the fried onions, a little garlic, and about a quart and a half of stock, and simmer till the fowl is tender; skim carefully, and when the fowl is nearly done, rub two table-spoonfuls of curry to the soup, add salt and lemon pickle, or mango juice. Send up boiled rice with the mulligatawny, in a separate dish. Mutton or rabbit may be used instead of fowl, but the latter is the proper ingredient. In warm climates, hot curries and mulligatawny soups are always dishes in request; the former a favourite with the matutinal meal. Hints foe Carving.—Never pour gravy over white meat, as the latter should retain its colour. The shoulder of a rabbit is very delicate ; and the brain is a tit-bit for a lad}'. Of roasted fowl, the breast is the best part; in boiled fowl, the leg is preferable. In helping roast pheasant or fowl, add some of the cresses with which it is garnished. The most elegant mode of helping hare is in fillets* so as not to give a bone, which would be a breach of good manners. The most delicate parts of a calf’s head are—the bit under the ears, next the eyes, and the side next the cheek. Never pour sauce over meat or vegetables, but on the side; and in helping at table, never use a knife where you can use a spoon. 11.—BROTHS. Every individual, who is not perfectly imbecile and void of understanding, is an. epicure in his way; the epicures in boiling potatoes are innumerable. The perfection of all enjoyments depends on the perfection of the faculties of the mind and body; the temperate man is the greatest epicure, and the only true voluptuary.—Dr. Kitchener. Scotch Kail.—Take a cupful of pearl barley, and put it, with about three quarts of cold water, in a pot, and allow it to simmer. When it does so, put into the pot about two pounds of neck of mutton, and let it continue simmering for an hour, skimming occasionally. Then add two carrots, two turnips, and a few small onions, cut in pieces, with some pepper and salt; also a cabbage cut into pieces, or a similar quantity of greens. [Leeks are preferred to onions by our countrymen north of the Tweed.] Simmer another hour, and add a little more boiling water if necessary. The meat is served in a separate dish, and is garnished with carrots and turnips. The broth is served in a tureen. This is said to be a universal dish among the middle class of Scotland, and very- good it is, if properly made. It is called “ kail” from the name of the greens that are employed in its composition. Sheep’s Head Broth.—Clean the head properly, and put it on to