235 SMOKING. came from the bumpkin, -who did not properly respond to the maiden’s query:— My name ain't Corry Dunn, lie lives with Danner Stubbles. My name’s Tom Styles, miss, and I left my pipe at home, 'cos I ain’t got no baccur. The delicate sensibilities of the lady -were so shocked — possessed, as she -was, with a heart overflowing with love and poesy, liable to amatory impressions which she expected a response to, and not so loutish a reply—that Miss Amantia vanished. Meerschaum.—Syn., ecume de mer; Dr. A silicated carbonate of magnesia. It has a specific gravity ranging between 2'6 to 3'4; is readily acted on by acids, and fuses before a powerful blow-pipe into white enamel. The finest qualities are found in Greece and Turkey. It is used by the Tartars in washing linen. Its principal consumption is, however, in the manufacture of tobacco pipes. The Germans prepare their pipes for sale by soaking them in tallow, then in white wax, and, finally, by polishing them in shave-grass. Genuine meerschaum pipes are distinguished from mock ones by the beautiful brown colour they assume after being smoked for some time. Recently, some of tile pipemakers have produced a composition clay pipe, which closely resembles meerschaum in appearance, and is “warranted to colour well.” This composition, which is comparatively valueless, is made into pipes of suitable patterns, which are frequently sold to the ignorant as meerschaums.—Cooley. I shall now smoke two cigar3, and get me to bed. The cigars do not keep well here. They get as old as a donna di quarante anni in the sun of Africa. The Havannah are the best; but neither are so pleasant as a hookah or chibouque. The Turkish tobacco is mild, and their horses entire—two things as they should be.—Byron’s Journal, 1813. Moore. Smoking.—I should be forced to give it a place as one of the least hurtful of luxuries. It is on this ground, in fact, that tobacco holds so firm a position—that, of nearly every luxury, it is the least injurious. It is innocuous as compared with alcohol; it does infinitely less harm than sugar; it is in no sense worse than tea; and, by the side of high living, altogether it contrasts most favourably. A thorough smoker may, or may not, be a hard drinker; but there is one thing he never is—a glutton; indeed, there is no cure for gluttony, and all its train of certain and fatal evils, like tobacco. In England this cure has been effected wholesale. The friends of tobacco will add to these remarks, that their “friendly weed" is sometimes not only the least hurtful of luxu- ries, but the most reasonable. They will tell of the quiet which it brings to the over- worn body and to the irritable and restless mind. Their error is transparent and universal; but, notwithstanding, it is a practical truth, for, in their acceptation, tobacco is a remedy for evils which he within its own domain, and, as a remedy, it will hold its place until these are removed.—Dr. Richardson, in the “ Social Science Review.” A Smoking Princess.—At a ball recently given at Baden, by Madame de Behague, Princess Menschikoff, who regularly smokes half a dozen cigarettes in the course of the evening, was just about to place the perfumed paper to her lips, when the hostess prevented her proceeding further by warning her Excellency that the King of Holland who was present, had a decided objection to the smoke of cigars. “ But this is only a cigarette,” replied the princess, sharply; “ and no man on earth, even a king, has a right to object to the good will and pleasure of a lady." Thereupon, heedless of the annoyance of the good nostess, the princess put up her lips and puffed away. In an instant the king detected the obnoxious vapour. The whole company beheld the sudden colour in his cheek as he listened to the whispered observation by Madame de Behague and few were there who did not sympathise with the indignation which had caused it* The king, by-the-by, disappeared from the room, giving his arm to the kind hostess; in another moment he was followed by the greater portion of the company, consisting of Drench, German, English, and Italian guests : none remained but the Russians and a few Danish dancers. Princess Menschikoff herself was amongst the last to leave; and it was not till the next day that it became known that a second band had been sent for, at a late hour, and that another set cf dancers had been enjoying themselves in another saloon. The result has been a total division of society—the King of Holland strictly refusing to meet Princess Menschikoff in private society; and the persistence of tho latter in driving his Majesty from every public place of amusement by means of her cigarette.—Court Journal.