XXVII.—CARVING. You sliould praise, not ridicule your Mend, who carves with as much earnestness cf purpose as though he were legislating.—Dr. Johnson. One of the most important acquisitions in the routine of daily life is to know how to carve well. Every person who mixes with society at all is likely to be called on at any moment to perform this office ; to refuse to undertake it savours of ill-nature and selfishness ; and to perform it in an awkward and bungling manner is painful and unpleasant for lookers-on, and exceedingly humiliating to the operator. The best mode of becoming an adept in carving neatly and expeditiously is to dine at hotels and taverns where there is a table d'hote or ordinary, and daily assist in cutting up the dishes prepared for the public dinner. Carving is not to be considered alone as an accomplishment to be displayed at the tables of others; it is, in fact, a very requisite branch of domestic management, and highly important in an economical point of view, for it is notorious that a joint of meat ill carved will not serve nearly so many persons as it would if it were properly carved. But this requires a certain amount of tact and judgment to cut fairly, and to observe an equitable distribu- tion of all dainties, so as to give general satisfaction. In the first place, whatver is to be carved should be set in a dish sufficiently large for turn- ing it, if necessary; but the dish itself should not be moved from its position, which should be so close before the carver as only to leave room for the plates. The carving-knife should be light, sharp, well tempered, and of a size proportionate to the joint, strength being less required than address in the manner of using it. The carver must carefully avoid all clumsiness of attitude and deportment: squaring the elbows, tucking up the coat-sleeves, dropping the knife and fork, splashing the gravy, and overturning glasses, are evidences of awkwardness and ungracefulness on the part of the carver. To carve standing is considered vulgar ; and to obviate this, the seat of the carver should be raised to the requisite height. In carving, the eye must be employed as well as the hand: there is an art in discovering when a person’s plate needs replenishing without appearing to be too solicitous; and there is also a tact and delicacy in recommending some particular dainty, which you have reason to think will be acceptable.—The Dictionary of Daily Wants. Manolixg.—The words so often seen in out-of-the-way places of populous towns apply with full force to the bad carver—“Mangling done here.” The editor of the above Dictionary recommends the novice to learn carving by frequenting hotels; but we would suggest that he should take a few lessons at the ham and beef shops. The dinners d la Russo require no carving on the part of the Amphytrion, and that is the only advantage in their favour; but Fraser dissents, for he makes Mr. Macborrowdale exclaim “ At the last of these Siberian dinners at which I had the misfortune to be present, I had offered me, for two of my rations, the tail of a mullet and the drumstick of a fowl. Men who carve behind screens ought to pass a competitive examination before a jury of gastronomers. Men who carve at table are drilled by degrees into something like tolerable operators by the mere shame of the public process.”