VICTORIAN FISH. 228 dentil. That event will now come to pass; and the statesmanlike language of Lord John Russell seems far from realisation : “To rescue the inhabitants of New Zealand from the calamities of which the approach of civilised men to barbarous tribes has liitherto been the almost universal herald, is a duty too sacred and important to be neglected, whatever may be the discouragements under which they may be undertaken.” “What has this to do with your book on the cuisine ?" naturally asks the reader; to which query we only rejoin, that it bears very much on the “political kettle of fish,” now commencing to boil over in the adjoining Maori colony. XCIX.—VICTORIAN FISH. The cuisine of a woman of refinement, like her dress or her furniture, is distinguished, not for its costliness and profusion, but for a pervading air of graceful originality. She is quito sensible of the regard due to the reigning fashion of the day, but her own tasteful discrimination is always perceptible. She instinctively avoids everything that is hackneyed, vulgar, and common-place, and uniformly succeeds in pleasing by the judicious novelties she introduces.—Extract from the Preface to the “ Jewish Manual,” by a Lady. Salt Water:— Red mullet—21bs. to 41bs. Very delicate and good eating. Land ditto—4lb. to olbs. Ditto. School ditto—^lb. to lib. Ditto. Whiting—:plb. to lib. A first-rate table fish. Snapper—41b. to 401bs. Very good dinner fish. At Western Port, in October, the “ schnapper ” is found in quantity, and in the same month the salmon, but so absurdly unlike the king of English fishes, that we must Latinise him for want of English as Cenlroj>ristis Georginanus. In the same month, pike, or sphynsena Nova llollandix. There is mullet, alias Dajanus Diemensis; whiting, not unlike the English namesake, Siligo punctata; two kinds of flatheads—this kind appropriate and done into Latin as Platycephalus Tasmanius and-P. nemalophthalmus; kingfish, a decided usurper, as proved by Scicena Aquila; barracoota, Thyrsites atun; ling, or shark-cod. Lota breviuscula; besides others too numerous to mention by scientific identification.— Melbourne Paper. Guardfish—Small. Very delicate, and good eating. Salmon—41b. to 41bs. Not in request. The Colonial salmon,'and the English fish of that name—the Salmosalar ofLinnceus— are dissimilar in every possible respect. The Australian colonists have been endeavour- ing to procure the latter from the mother country for some time past. At the last meeting of the Acclimatisation Society, at Melbourne, the Governor, Sir Charles Darling, in the chair, the Council stated that the salmon claimed priority of notice, as it occupied the anxious attention, and as many previous difficulties were now removed by the experiments carried out successfully in London by the friends of acclimatisation, it may be confidently expected that before many months have passed Tasmanian waters will receive the first promised supply of British fish. Dr. Black seconded the adoption of the report, and in connection with the introduction of the salmon ova, he introduced to the meeting Dr. Officer, the Speaker of the Tasmanian House of Assembly, who would give them information on the subject. Dr. Officer expressed his pleasure at being present at that meeting, and regrettedthathehadnotmore to report on the proceedings of the Tasmanian Society. Of all the animals that could be introduced, the salmon was the most desirable, whether as an article of food or for sport. He briefly referred to the efforts that had been made to bring out the ova alive, and the experiments that had been tried for the preservation of the ova in ice boxes. From the last experiment it had been found that ova continued alive over 1-10 days after being placed in ice. The vessel that was to bring out the next supply would have an ice-house, containing fifty tons of ice, in which the boxes would be placed, and would not be opened during the voyage. He hoped the experiment would be made next year, and that the vessel might bo expeeted to arrive in March next. He thanked the Victorian Society for the assistance