255 HEBREW REFECTIOX. drainer; continue adding egg to tlie boiling sugar till enough is obtained. There should be previously prepared one pound of sweet almonds finely pounded and boiled in sugar, clarified with orange rose-water only; place in a dish a layer of this paste, over which place a layer of citrons cut in thin slices, and then a thick layer of the egg prepared as above; continue ■working thus in alternate layers till high enough to look handsome. It should be piled in the form of a cone, and the egg should form the last layer. It must then be placed in a gentle oven till it becomes, a little set, and the last layer slightly crisp ; a few minutes will effect this. It must be served in the dish in which it is baked, and is generally ornamented with myrtle and gold and silver leaf. Superior Eecipe for Almond Pudding.—Beat up the yolks of ten eggs, and the whites of seven; add half a pound of sweet almonds pounded finely, half a pound of white sugar, half an ounce of bitter almonds, and a table-spoonful of orange-flower water; when thoroughly mixed, grease a dish, put in the pudding, and bake in a brisk oven ; when done, strew powdered sugar over the top, or, which is exceedingly fine, pour over clarified sugar with orange-flower water. Sopa d’Oro ; or, Golden Soup.—Clarify a pound of sugar in a quarter of a pint of water, and the same quantity of orange-flower water; cut into pieces the size of dice, a thin slice of toasted bread, or cut it into shapes with a paste-cutter ; throw it, while hot, into the sugar, with an ounce of sweet almonds pounded very finely ; then take the beaten yolks of four eggs, pour over the sugar and bread, stir gently, and let it simmer a few minutes. Serve in a deep glass dish, sprinkled over with pounded cinnamon. Pola Toliedo.—Take a pound of butter, and warm itT over the fire, with a little milk; then put it into a pan with a pound of flour, six beaten eggs, a quarter of a pound of beaten sweet almonds, and two table-spoonfuls of yeast; make these ingredients into a light paste, and set it before the fire to rise ; then grease a deep dish, and place in a layer of the paste ; then some egg prepared as for bola d'amor; then slices of citron, and a layer of egg marmalade; sprinkle each layer with cinnamon, and fill the dish with alternate layers. A rich puff paste should line the dish, which ought to be baked in a brisk oven ; after which sugar clarified with orange-flower water must be poured over till the syrup has thoroughly penetrated the bola. A Luction, or a Rachael.—Make thin nouilles paste, cut into strips of about two inches wide; leave it to dry; then boil the strips in a little water, and drain through a colander; when the water is strained off, mix it with beaten eggs, white sugar, a little fresh butter, and grated lemon-peel; bake or boil in a shape lined with preserved cherries ; when turned out, pour over a fine custard, or cream, flavoured with brandy, and sweetened to taste. Prenesas.—Take one pint of milk, stir in as much flour as will bring