127 sportsman’s dinner. The Queen.—A foreign courier, who attended the Queen and the late Prince Con- sort, has been dispatched to Coburg to make preparations for the reception of her Majesty, who proposes, during the summer, to visit a spot hallowed to her, being the birthplace of her beloved husband. There is something particularly touching in every action of our revered Sovereign connected with the death, of the Prince. Her visits to the mausoleum that contains his ashes; her attention to old and faithful servants ; her works of mercy in cheering the dying hours of some valued attendant; her anxiety to carry out every scheme suggested or approved of by the Prince; her liberality in re- taining all the officers of his household—speaks volumes in favour of her Majesty’s sense of duty and kindness of heart. Among other traits of the Queen may be men- tioned that, in Kensington Palace, where her early years were passed, there exists an apartment in which a doll’s baby-house, kitchen, drawing-room, and bed-room are fitted, rip with furniture peculiar to such juvenile buildings, but, unlike most baby-houses, large enough to admit a child of eight or ten years of age. Occasionally the Queen visits this apartment, recalling, probably, happy hours of childhood.—Court Journal. A Royal Entertainment.—The Report of the Royal Reception Committee of the City of London, appointed to carry out the entertainment given by the Corporation to the Prince and Princess of Wales in June, 1863, has published a synopsis of the expense. The entire cost was £15,054. Artificers’ charges, £3,591; toilet articles, perfumery, &c., £208; supper, &c., £1,680; decorations after sale, £3,591; -wines, &c., £584 ; care of plate, £60; china and glass, £205; music, £117: printing, £431; lighting and illuminations, £207; miscellaneous, £1,163; gratuities to officers, £508. The expen- diture incurred in 1837, when the Queen honoured the Corporation with her presence at Guildhall, was £8,157.—Home News. Art Education of Children. — Let us here mention, that we have found the children of the Sovereign of Great Britain at nine in the morning at the Museum of Practical Art; and on another occasion, at the same hour, amidst the Elgin marbles— not the only wise hint to the mothers of England to be found in the highest place. Accustom your children to find beauty in goodness, and goodness in beauty.—The Builder. XLIV.—SPORTSMAN’S DINNER; OR, ATHLETES5 FOOD. Time was when John Bull little difference spied ’Twixt the foe at his feet and the friend at his side: When he found (such his humour in fighting and eating) His foe, like his beefsteak, the sweeter for beating.—Moore. This important meal—dinner—should consist of roast beef or mutton, or, occasionally, a boiled leg of mutton may be allowed as a change; but veal, pork, and salt beef, or bacon should be avoided, also goose, duck, and wild fowl generally.. Eoast fowls, or partridges, or pheasants are very good food. Hare is too apt to be accompanied by high-seasoned stuffing, without which it is scarcely palatable. Nothing is better than venison, when come-atable, but it should be eaten without seasoned sauce or currant jelly. As to vegetables, potatoes may be eaten, but very, sparingly not more than one or two at a meal; cauliflower and broccoli only as an occasional change, and no other vegetable is allowable. Bread may be given ad libitum, and about a pint to a pint and a half of good, sound, home-made beer. If this does not agree, a little sherry and water or claret and water may be allowed with the meal, and a glass or two of the former wine, or of good sound port, after dinner. When the train- ing is continued for any length of time, and the previous habits of the party have accustomed the stomach to it, I have found the occasional use-