ss FISH. which they are taken by a skimmer as required ; they are then thrown upon a layer of flour contained in a large napkin, in which they are shaken until completely enveloped in flour; they are then put into a colander, and all the superfluous flour is removed by sifting; the fish are next thrown into hot lard, contained in a cojjper cauldron, or stewpan, placed over a charcoal fire ; in about two minutes they are removed by a tin skimmer, thrown into a colander to drain, and served up in- stantly, by placing them on a fish-drainer, in a dish. The rapidity of the cookery is of the utmost importance; and if not attended to, the fish will lose their crispness, and be worthless. At table, lemon-juice is squeezed on them, and they are seasoned with cayenne pepper; brown bread and butter is substituted for plain bread, and they are eaten with iced champagne or punch.—Dr. Pereira on Diet. Whitebait.—Whitebait, without wliicli there would be no vessel, and, in the minds of a great many people, no Greenwich; whitebait, which Theodore Hook called “ curled paper fried in batter; ” which most people sneer at as nothing, and which everybody eats with delight, are caught where the water is a little brackish, generally between Barking and Greenhithe, with a net thirty feet long and twelve feet wide. This net is cast at daylight, either at high or low water, and remains two feet below the surface until nearly the ebb or flow, as the case may be. At the commencement of the spring, white- bait first appear, but not in large quantities, as these are old fish who escaped last year’s netting. About the middle of April the young fry, perfectly transparent, arrive, and, in the first week in May, come to perfection. So it continues for a couple of months; then gradually whitebait get larger and larger, and about the dose of September are lost sight of altogether. There is a specialty for dressing bait, and the fisherman who, assisted by his son, for upwards of a score of years has supplied the vessel, not only catches the whitebait, but cooks them. On a glowing coke fire is placed a large frying-pan full of boiled lard; the fish, first thoroughly sifted with flour, are placed in a cloth, which is plunged into the hissing fat. Cook is a perfect salamander, utterly impervious to the frightful heat, which makes strangers wink and beat a hasty retreat. He takes the handle of the frying-pan, and turns it from right to left, peering in at the seething mass. In two minutes the cooking is accomplished, and the fish are emptied out of a cloth on to a dish. Ye who would take your whitebait in perfection, get permission to eat it in the kitchen.—All the Year Round. At the last festival of the Acclimatisation Society, held at St. James’s Hall, London, Mr. Bernal Osborne responded to the toast of “ the House of Commonsand in doing so, said that one of the dishes with which the company was regaled was the white soup of the Channel Islands. It appeared that this delicious soup was made of the conger- eel—a creature so despised that the starving Irish have refused to add flavour and nutriment to their potatoes by boiling with them a salted steak of the conger (laughter). Among the dishes served were the yam, or Dioscorea Batatas lucioperia, grenoiUes, or edible frogs, pepper-pot, Chinese lamb, roasted whole, with pilaff and kuscoussoo, poulets a l’emancipation des negres, and ostrich eggs. There were, besides the usual wines, Greek, Hungarian, Australian, and Galifornian sorts.—Some News. Boiled Rounders.—Wash, and clean them well, and cut the back side of them, the same as you do turbot; then put them into a kettle, with cold water and salt: when it comes to a boil, skim them ; let them simmer for five minutes, and they are ready. Eaten with plain melted butter, you have the flavour of the flounder, which, like many other delicate fish, is overpowered by powerful sauce. Eels.— Clean them well, wipe them dry, and fry them until brown. Have ready some beef gravy, or stock, about a quart; put the eels into it when cold, and let it simmer for about fifteen minutes. Take them out of the stewpan, and place them in a deep dish. Thicken the