88 GAME. There is a paucity of native game at New Zealand; the kinds are only wild ducks and' quail. The large wingless bird, the moa (dinornis elephantopus) is extinct. It would have been a rather difficult task to describe the cookery of such a gigantic bird, belonging to the strutliious family, with feet like an elephant, tliirteeeu feet in height, and large in proportion. Guinea Fowl,—This bird is said to unite the flavour of the turkey and pheasant. It must be well attended to in the cooking, properly stuffed, and basted. It is decidedly a game bird in every sense, and requires attention in its being well served. Slices of ham and intermi- nable basting are essential to its cookery. Wild Ducks and Teal,—The wild ducks of England and Australia are dressed in the same manner. Keep them sufficiently, and roast them rather under-done, not forgetting to baste well. Serve with lemon and port wine sauce, and cayenne pepper. A novice would use melted butter, but it is quite contrary to the school of M. Brillat Savarin, who advises the roast with snipe and truffles. The black and mountain duck of Tasmania, when well done, are excellent feeding, as well as the wood duck, often to be seen perched on trees, near water. When carving wild ducks, be sure to slice the breast, and pour over the cuts a few spoonfuls of sauce, composed of port wine, or claret (warmed), lemon-juice, salt, and cayenne pepper. The manner in which this is done is said to be the entente of gentle- manly habits and practice. Pheasants, Partridges, and Quails,—The first of these birds is plentiful in England, and several kinds of the latter are so in the colo- nies. They are best roasted. Let them hang for a short time, not too long; draw, singe, and truss them; put them down to a clear fire, and let them be quickly done. Baste them incessantly, and serve with bread sauce, or good brown gravy. These birds are first-rate in a pie, with a little bacon or ham; but as to boiling them, or placing them in pud- dings or ragouts, or salmi, or soups, we don’t admire such a mode of dressing them. The most desirable cuisine is to lard them slightly, and roast. Pheasants, Partridges, and other Game, en papillotes.—Split tha birds in halves, and stew them in butter, until nearly half done. Make a sauce of the butter, with mushrooms, chopped parsley, a few herbs and shalots ; add a little flour, salt, and spice; with some stock, and a glass of wine; stew this sauce, and pour it over the halves of the birds: then wrap them in paper, and broil for about fifteen minutes. Serve in the paper, with the sauce as an accompaniment. Black Cock and Bed Grouse are dressed in a similar way to a phea- sant ; served with toast and lemon, and as little fat as possible. The fire must be bright, and the birds not over-done. A few minutes before serving, make some toast, squeeze over it a little lemon, and then lay it in the pan ; place the birds on this toast for the table, and serve with a minimum amount of melted butter. Woodcock and Snipe are dressed with the trail, to absorb the gouty