KETCHUP. 197 •“ Practical Receipts,” and if followed with attention, cannot be im- proved ; some persons use a little brandy, but any such spirit destroys the delicate flavour of the mushroom. Oyster, pontac, tomato, wal- nut, anchovy, caper, and cockle are each additions to the real ketchup, nnd take their names. There is nothing so useful in cookery as good ketchup; and we strongly advise the housewife to make it herself, as those purchased ready-made can seldom be depended on. It is a most valuable addition to soups, joints, and indeed every dish. Bottles of the best kind are required to hold it. Nothing in the shape of copper, lead, or pewter must be allowed to touch it; a plated copper spoon left in a bottle of ketchup for any time will render its contents poisonous. Dan gerous fits of vomiting, colic, and diarrhoea have resulted from the neglect of this latter precaution. The majority of the ketchups retailed is a bad compound of liver and fish-roes, seasoned with pepper and drugs, not of the most healthful kind. Mushrooms are excellent, whatever way they are cooked: they may be fried, boiled, or done on toast in an oven before the •fire, with a little butter put over them; or they may be stewed. As an accompaniment to chops, steaks, or roast meats or poultry, they are nevef out of place, and are always most recherche fare. What an addition and zest they give to the braise! Camp Ketchup,—Take of old beer two quarts; white wine, one quart; anchovies, four ounces. Mix, and heat to the boiling point; remove it from the fire, and add three ounces of peeled shalot, half afii ounce of mace, nutmegs, giDger, and black pepper. Macerate for four* teen days, and strain. Cucumber Ketchup : made from ripe cucumbers, in the same way as mushroom ketchup. Very luscious and rich. Mixed with cream or melted butter, it forms an excellent white sauce for fowls, &c. Marine Ketchup.—Strong beer, one gallon; anchovies, a pound and a half; peeled shalots pounded, one pound ; half an ounce of mace, mus- tard-seed, and cloves; bruised pepper and ginger, a quarter of an ounce ; mushroom ketchup and vinegar, one quart. Proceed in the same manner as camp ketchup. Wine ketchup, oyster ketchup, pontac ketchup, walnut ketchup, and tomato ketchup are made in a similar way. Chili vinegar is used with the latter, and it makes an admirable relish. Different Modes of Eating.—European nations use knives, forks, and spoons. The Hindoos eat their rice with their right hand; and the Chinese use two chopsticks, about half the thickness of lead pencils, hut rather longer, and it is astonishing the dexterity with which they will feed with this simple aid, and even pick up a grain of rice. The Turks use their lingers, and generally with pieces of bread absorb the gravy of their little dishes. The Persians commence and end tlioir repasts with coffee; and the generality of their dishes is an odd admixture of pillau, boiled fowl, raisins, melons, and fruits, and boiled meats, closely resembling the Turks. The Chinese are great fish-eaters, and anything in the shape of shark, dog-tisb, or any coarse kind, they salt and preserve, and parties of these sons of Ham are found in the colonies contiguous to the gold fields, curiug fish for their countrymen. Their birds’-nests aud similar dishes are simply glu- tinous compounds. The Germans are very primitive in their cookery. A table'd'hdle dinner commences with pofage au riz and grated cheese j then plain boiled beef and