262 CLUBS. Dirty windows bespeak to passers-by the characters of the inmates.— Condensed from “ Practical Housewife.” The Country Gentleman of the Revolution.—His table was loaded with coarse plenty, and guests were cordially welcome to it. But, as the habit of drinking to excess was general in the class to which he belonged, and as his fortune did not enable him to intoxicate large assemblies daily with claret or canary, strong beer was the ordinary beverage. The quantity of beer consumed in those days was enormous. Tor beer then was to the middle and lower classes not only all that beer now is, but all that wine, tea, and ardent spirits now are. It wa3 only at great houses, or on great occasions, that foreign drink was placed on the board. The ladies of the house, whose business it had commonly been to cook the repast, retired as soon as the dishes had been devoured, and left the gentlemen to their ale and tobacco. The coarse jollity of the afternoon was often prolonged till the revellers were under the table. His wife and daughter were in tastes and acquirements below a housekeeper or a still-room maid of the present day. They stitched and spun, brewed gooseberry wine, cured marigolds, and made the crust for the venison pasty. From this description it might be supposed that the English squire of the seventeenth century did not materially differ from a rustic miller or ale- keeper of our time.—Macaulay. Hares are only fit to be sent to table when they are young. In order to judge of this, feel the first joint of the fore-claw; if you find a small nut, the animal is still young. Should this nut have disappeared, turn the claw sideways, and if the joint cracks, that is a sign of its being tender.—Ude. Or if the ears feel tender and pliable, and the claws smooth and sharp, the hare is young.—Dolby. It is not fit for the ta immediately after being killed: by being kept a few days the flesh becomes tender, but dark coloured1 and rather unpleasant to the eye.—Donovan’s “ Domestic Economy CXI-CLUBS. General Rules for the Preparation of Nutritious Broths.— 1. Meat healthy, and sufficiently bled. 2. Earthenware pots in preference to metal ones, because the former are not such conductors of heat as the latter, and because, once warmed, a little hot ashes suffices to keep up the gehtle ebullition which is desirable. 3. Water in such quantity as to be double the weight of the meat employed. 4. A sufficient quautity of common salt to facilitate the separation of the albumen, as well as its coagulation under the form of scum. 5. A temperature capable of keeping the mixture at ebullition point during the whole time that the scum is gathering at the surface of the liquid, from which it must be most carefully removed. , 6. A lower and constant temperature after the preceding operation, in order that the liquid may merely simmer gently, so as to give time to the mutative, colouring, and extractive substances contained in the meat to unite and combine with the water in the order which accords with their solubility.—Parmentier, “ Code P/iarmaceutique.” To my club for a luncheon. A plate of prime, cold roast beef, excellent pickles, bread ad libitum, and a glass of good table-beer, very elegantly served, and all for sixpence! If I choose to add to it half a pint of sherry, my whole bill comes to eighteenpence. If, instead of ordering a plate of cold meat, I prefer a more ample meal—an early dinner, in fact—I sit down to a long table, on which are ranged cold beef, veal, ham, pickles of various kinds, and an abundance of confec- tionery, and I eat away until I am tired, at the cost of one shilling and sixpence, table-beer included. I am attended by two or three servants. No table can be more splendidly furnished with silver utensils ot every description. I sit in a magnificent chamber, and when 1 have finished my repast I retire to a library, where a choice collection.