PUDDINGS AND TIES, 53 dredge in half a pound of flour, add a quarter of a pound of currants and moisten with four eggs well beaten; when all the ingredients are’well stirred aud mixed, butter a mould that will hold the mixture, tie it down Avith a cloth, put the pudding into boiling water, and boil for a couple of hours ; when turned out, put on it some powdered sugar, and serve. Bachelor’s Pudding.—Pare, core, and mince four ounces of apples add to these four ounces of currants well cleaned, four ounces of grated bread, and two ounces of sugar; whisk three eggs, beat them up with the rest of the ingredients, and when all are thoroughly mixed put the pud- ding in a buttered basin, tie it down with a cloth, and boil for a couple of hours. *■ This is said to be the padding that the young lady made that induced the gentleman to pop the question,” which was duly responded to, as told in the addenda to one of the preceding- recipes. . Barberry Tart.—Pull the barberries from the stalks, and put the fruit into a stone jar in boiling water, and let it simmer until the fruit is soft; then put it into a preserving-pan, with the sugar—a pound of simar to a pound of fruit—and boil gently for fifteen minutes; line a tartlet-pan with paste, bake it, aud when the paste is cold fill in with fruit. Coburg Pudding.—Mix six ounces of flour to a smooth batter with a pint of new milk, add six ounces of sugar, six ounces of butter, six ounces of currants, six eggs, a little brandy and grated nutmeg, and when well mixed put it into moulds; bake for an hour, turn the puddings out in a dish, and serve with sweet sauce. Indian Pudding.—Pare, core, and cut four large apples into slices, put them into a saucepan with some grated nutmeg, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, and a tea-spoonful of minced lemon-peel; stir them over the fire until soft, have ready some crust, roll it out thin, spread the apples over the paste; sprinkle over the apples six ounces of currants and three- quarters of a pouud of minced suet, roll the pudding up, closing the ends, tie it in a floured cloth, and boil a couple of hours. Half-pay Pudding.—Chop a quarter of a pound of suet fine, mix it with a quarter of a pound of currants well washed, a quarter of a pound of stoned raisins, a quarter of a pound of flour, the same of bread-crumbs, two table-spoonfuls of treacle, and half a pint of milk; heat up the ingre- dients until they are well mixed, put them into a buttered basin, and boil for a couple of hours. Eowley Poley; or, Dog in a Blanket.—Make a light suet crust, and roll it out thin, spread the jam equally over it, leaving a small margin of paste without any, where the pudding joins; roll it up, fasten the ends securely, and tie it in a floured cloth, and boil for two hours. Baked Lemon Pudding.—Beat four eggs to a froth, mix them with four ounces of sugar and a quarter of a pound of warmed butter; mix well together, putting in the strained juice and grated rind of a lemon.