153 CAKES. chopped fine, two ounces; tincture of vanilla, six drops; flour as much as necessary. The treacle being placed over the fire, the butter is added, and successively all the other things but the flour ; let them, when well mixed, take a single boil, stirring them, and then let them cool. When cold, mix in, with a wooden spoon, enough flour to make it into a pretty stiff paste; butter a tin baking-dish, and lay on it with the spoon the paste, in the size necessary to form the nuts ; set the tin in the oven, and bake. When cold they are hard, if done. By following tbe above recipe, tlie good housewife will make what are considered the rie plus ultra of French gingerbread nuts. Marlborough Oakes.—Beat eight eggs and one pound of ground sugar well; then by degrees mix in one pound of flour and two ounces of carraway seeds, and bake in tin pans in a quick oven. Maids of Honour,—Take the curd of a quart of milk, and drain dry * then rub it through a sieve into a pan, mix with it four ounces of butter, eight ounces of ground white sugar, the yolks of four eggs, and one mealy potato of medium size; when well mixed, add one ounce each of sweet and bitter almonds (using the strained juice of a lemon to prevent their oiling while being pounded), the rind of one lemon grated, some nutmeg, and a wine-glass of brandy, and stir in with the rest. Line the pans- with puff paste, fill them with the mixture, and bake. Richmond “Maids of Honour” are delicious cheesecakes, peculiar to Richmond and Surrey, and doubtless named from its regal days, when Richmond had its royal palace and court. It is stated that one thousand pounds was once paid to the fortunate possessor of the receipt for making this cheesecake, with the goodwill of the business said to have been originally established in Hill-street, Richmond. George III. had his tables at Windsor Castle and Kew regularly supplied with these cheesecakes.—Things not Generally Known. Theodore Hook, in “Gilbert Gurney,” tells the lady at dinner that cheesecakes were called, at the place where they were dining, “maids of honour,” and a “gooseberry tart ” a “ gentleman usber ” of the black rod. The feminine was sold, for she ordered a “ gentleman usher” to be brought in cold, amidst the laughter of the company. Pikelets.—Put half a pint of milk and the same quantity of water into a saucepan, with an ounce of butter, two lumps of sugar, and a little salt; stir it over the fire till rather warmer than new milk, then beat up the yolks of two eggs and the white of one, and add a table-spoonful of yeast. Put them into a jug and mix the whole together; then add one pound of flour, and stir it in free from lumps. Let the jug remain by the lire to rise; rub a little butter 'on the baking-iron, then pour on the batter to bake. Jersey Wonders.—Take two pounds of flour, six ounces of butter, six ounces of white sugar, a little nutmeg, ground ginger, and lemon-peel.. Beat eight eggs, and knead them well together ; a taste of brandy is an improvement. Roll them out the thickness of your wrist, cut off a small slice, and roll it into an oval, about four inches long and three inches wide, not too thin; cut ten slips in it, but not through either end, there will be then three bands. Pass the left one through the aperture to the right, and throw it into a skillet of boiling dripping or lard. You can