207 A bachelor’s dinner, according to soyer. Ceeman Teast.—It is •well known that a large proportion of tlio bread prepared for family use is raised from what is called German yeast, a noxious compound, imported weekly into Hull, in quantities really astonishing, and where, I am credibly informed, tons of it are thrown into the sea from having become alive ; yet this is used by the great majority of bakers over the kingdom to produce the bread for our vast population, who little suspect the slow poison they are daily and unconsciously consuming.—Man- chester Guardian. Oobbett’s Yeast Oakes.—Provide seven pounds of Indian corn meal, three and a half pounds of rye flour, three ounces of hops, and one gallon of boiling water. Separate the hops by the hand, strew and boil them in the water for half an hour, then strain the liquor into an earthen vessel, put in the rye while hot, stirring quickly as the fermentation commences. Next day, when it is working, put in the Indian meal, stirring it well. Before all the meal is added, it will become a stiff dough. Knead it well, and roll it out as you would a pie-crust, to the thickness of the third of an inch. Cut it into cakes with a tumbler; place these cakes in the sun to dry. Turn them every day until they are hard ; keep them in a dry place. When you bake, take a couple of these cakes, break them and put them into warm water over-night. Let the vessel containing them stand near the fire; they will dissolve. Use the liquid for setting your sponge, just as you would the yeast of beer. White pea-meal or barley-flour will do as well as Indian meal. Mr. Cobbett states in bis “ Cottage Economy,” that tbe best bread be ever ate in bis life was lightened witb these cakes. La Belle Fbance.—Tbe south of France is tbe great larder of Paris. Thence we have from Provence tbe exquisite pale truffle and oil, pure and colourless as water; path, led on by tbe sublime pdtti do foix gras; tbe poulard truffe of Perigord; the unbrandied claret of Bordeaux ; tbe liqueurs of Marseilles ; tbe nougat of tbe same emporium ; tbe oranges of Hyeres; tbe muscat of Lunel; the ortolans, quails, verdiers, becfigues, the olives, figs, anchovies, almonds, fruits, dried and preserved in jelly, cn compote, in brandy and out of it, and other countless delicacies.— Hints for the table. LXXXIV—A BACHELOR’S DINNER, ACCORDING TO SOYER. Some people have a foolish way of not minding, or pretending not to mind, what they eat. For my part, I mind my stomach very studiously and carefully, and I look upon it that he that does not m.nd his stomach will hardly mind anything else.—Hr. Johnson. “ The dinner having thus began with six oysters, a glass of Chablis, or, if preferred, white hermitage, or even Moselle, the soup is then placed on the table; this ought to be of a light kind, and should turtle be preferred it ought to be light and transparent. With the soup a glass of sherry or Madeira is the best accompaniment. At the same time as the soup is placed on the table so are the fish, the sauce, and the potatoes on the sideboard. 1 he fish, if boiled, should be accompanied by hock or white Burgundy ; if baked or stewed, with claret of a light kind. The next course should consist of a boiled and roast remove, aud two entrees. To those who know artistically how to eat a dinner, it may appear strange when I tell them that I have known those who have considered themselves