45 POULTRY. of hours. When tender, drain them ; rub them through a colander with a wooden spoon ; add an ounce of butter, one egg, beat up, and pepper and salt to taste. Beat them well together, tie lightly in a cloth, and boil for half an hour. To be served with corned beef or boiled pork. The Danger op Meat Pie.—All learned toxicologists and cliemists appear to have' forgotten the important fact that, if a meat pie is made without a hole in the crust, to let out certain emanations from the meat, colie, vomiting, and other symptoms of slight poisoning will occur. I have known two instances of large parties being affected in this manner from eating pies that had no hole in them.—Correspondent of “ Lancet.” Living in the Reign of Henry YII.—The records of the Percy family, in the time of Henry YII., show that the permanent household numbered 166 persons, and the average of guests was fifty; and the whole of the washing for these 216 persons was, for on© year, 40s., a sum probably equal to £40 in the present day, most of which was for the chapel linen. Prom midsummer to Michaelmas was the only time they indulged in fresh meat; and the instructions say—“My lord has on his table for breakfast, at seven in the morning, a quart of beer and wine, two pieces of salt fish, six red herrings, four white ones ; and on flesh days, half a chine of beef or mutton boiled.” At dinner, men ranking as knights had a table-cloth, which was washed once a month. They had no napkins, and the fingers were extensively used in feeding. Until the thirteenth century- straw was the bed of kings; and before that date the king and bis family slept in the same chamber. The first change was to throw a coverlet over the sleeper; then another was used, and the persons undressed, then- linen being substituted for blankets. Beatrice says she would “ as lief sleep in the woollen,” which shows that such a thing was done even in Shakespeare’s time.—W. 'Lite, F.S.A. XIV.—POULTRY. Balthazar: Small cheer and great welcome make a merry feast. Antipholus of Ephesus .- Ay, to a niggardly host, and more sparing guest: But though my cates* be mean, take them on good part; Better cheer may you have, but not with better heart. Comedy of Errors. Turkey Braised.—Monsieur le Jacque bas earned some celebrity by tbe invention of this dish, and the following distich speaks to the*- advantage of the bra ise:— “ Turkey boiled Is turkey spoiled. And turkey roast Is turkey lost; But turkey braised, The Lord be praised!” The turkey is trussed and stuffed in the usual manner. The bottom of a stewpan is covered wit1 slices of bacon, chopped carrots, onions, sweet herbs, salt, pepper, allspice, and mace. On these ingredients lay the turkey, with its breast downwards, and over the bird place a layer of the- same materials. Cover the top close, and put the pan in an oven, or on a hot-plate, for three or four hours, until it is done. Only let the dish gently simmer in its own steam, and it will become mellow and tender to a degree. This is the French braise, and any joint cooked in a similar way acquires a tender- D333 and flavour, like the French potarje; a single spoonful of which will lap the patient * Dishes of meat.