237 SERVANTS. as if they were the inhabitants of some other sphere. This feeling, arising from that kind of reserve peculiar to the English character, does, I think, greatly tend to prevent that mingling of class and class, that reciprocation, of kind words and gentle affections of the heart, that refinement and eleva- tion of the characters of those to whom they are addressed; and if I were to be asked what is the great want of English society, to mingle class with class, I would say, in one word, the want is—the want of sympathy." 8 Mr. Justice Talfourd was seized with a fit of paralysis, which ended fatally, just at the conclusion of the utterance of the above noble senti- ments, while addressing the grand jury, at the Stafford Assizes, on the 12th March, 1854. The Household Words of the 25th of that month bears testimony, in affecting terms, to the probity, learning, ability, and kindliness of disposition of the learned Judge; but it is due to this excellent and lamented man—who is now no more—as well as to society, that attention should be directed to this “address,” so that the kindly sympathy as between masters and servants, should be, if possible, recipro- cated in the Colonies as well as in the mother country. The attention of servants is directed to tlie following Scriptural authorities for the performance of their relative duties:— 1. Love not sleep, but rise early (Prov. xx. 13). 2. Be not slothful (Prov. xviii. 9). 3. Let nothing be wasted (John vi. 12). 4. Be obedient and serve heartily (Col. iii. 22, 23). 5. Clean in person and dress (1 Peter iii. 3, 4). 6. Correct in manners, and not given to purloining (Titus ii. 9,10). 7. Be civil to your fellow-servants (Ephes. iv. 32). 8. Be kind to them and they will be so to you (Matt. vii. 12). 9. Neither utter falsehoods nor tell tales (Prov. xi. 13; xiv. 5). 10. A quiet answer appeaseth wrath (Prov. xv. 1). 11. Wander not away from a good home (Prov. xxvii. 8). 12. Be content and satisfied with your calling (1 Cor. vii. 20). The Treatment of our Domestics.—Whatever uneasiness we occasion to our domestics, which neither promotes our service nor answers the just end of punishment, is manifestly wrong, were it only upon the general principle of diminishing the sum of human happiness. By which rule we are forbidden— 1. To enjoin unnecessary labour or confinement, from the mere love and wantonness of domination. 2. To insult our servants by harsh, scornful, or opprobrious language. 3. To refuse them any harmless pleasures; And, by the same principle, also are forbidden causeless or immoderate anger, habitual peevishness, or groundless suspicion.—Paley. Domestic Servants.—It is well known that the deeply and justly lamented Prince Albert gave his particular attention to the state of domestic servants, and delivered an able, instructive address to the Provident Society for their protection. The importance of this class is undeniable, and ho represented them as the most numerous body of the servants of the Queen. A meeting was held upon the subject this summer, which I regretted being unable to attend; but there was a most instructive paper read, which gave rise to useful discussion, and it may be hoped that the subject will come before our social economy department. The importance of the subject may be estimated from this, that the number of domestic servants in England is calculated to be above a million, of whom one hundred thousand are in London, and ten thousand are out of place.—Extract from Lord Brougham's eloquent “ Address to the National Society of Edin- burgh1863.