Cl!I—PYROLIGNEOUS ACID. Shepherd. Oil, man, there’s something very anld wifish-like in publishing a book to tell oiks how to devour vittles. There’s nae mystery in that matter ; hunger and thirst are simple, straightforward instincts, no likely to bemuckle improved by artificial erudition; and I’ll bet you a cheese to akibbock (by-the-by, what for is’t no coining ben, the bit Welsh rabbit ?) that your Men's wark on diet will hae nae perceptible influence on the character o’ the table during our age.—Noctes Ambrosinee. Dr. Wilkinson, in the Philosophical Journal, was the first person who applied pyroligneous acid in the curing of meat. If a ham had the reduced quantity of salt usually employed for smoke-dried hams, and was then exposed, putrefaction soon took place, where pyroligneous acid was not used. Even one-half of this reduced portion of salt is sufficient when it is used, being applied cold, and the ham is then effectually cured without any loss of weight, and retaining more animal juices. This acid communicates the same quality to the meat as the process of smoking. Hams, salmon, and fish of any kind are more effectually cured by this acid than any other process. Beef-steaks have been kept fresh for six weeks by merely covering the bottom of the plate with acid, and turning them daily. A little acid added to the pickle for salt meat improves its flavour. Herrings, cod, haddock, and other fish may be cured by the acid after a little salting. In Holland, the red colour imparted to fish is attributed to tobacco dissolved in a fluid not the most acceptable—urine. Dr. Wilkinson states that pyroligneous acid may be manufactured at a profit for about 3|d. per gallon. The Legislature of Tasmania have lately passed a law allowing of the distillation from the woods of the colony of pyroligneous acid, and many colonists think it will become an article of export, as some of the indige- nous timber was found to yield the acid in greater proportion than any other known woods. Professor Brande’s description of the acid is as follows:— The pyroligneous acid, freed from tar, is saturated with chalk or powdered slaked lime, filtered, and evaporated, by which an impure acetate of lime is obtained ■ this is gentiy heated, so as to destroy part of its empyreumatic matter without decomposing the acetic acid; it is then mixed with sulphate of soda, which yields, by double decomposition, sulphate of lime and acetate of soda; the acetate of soda is filtered off, the sulphate of lime heated, and re-dissolved and crystallised. In this way, a pure, crystallised acetate of soda is, by proper management, obtained, which is mixed in a retort or still, with a proper proportion of sulphuric acid and a gentle heat applied, which causes the strong acetic acid to distil over, and sulphate of soda remains behind. This acetic acid is in a high state of concentration; it is lowered by the addition of water, and if intended for the table, or domestic use, as a substitute for other forms of vinegar, it is usually coloured with a little burnt sugar. The charcoal, which is the residue of this distillation of wood, is of excellent quality; that employed in the manufacture of gunpowder is thus prepared. This manufacture of vinegar is now carried on upon a very large scale, and the greater part of the vinegar used for domestic purposes, and in the arts, in many of which it is largely consumed, is derived from this source. Table Arrangements, a.d. 79.—The reader understands that the festive board was composed of three tables—one at the centre and one at each wing. It was only at the