162 BEER. Cooking Depot.—The “First Edinburgh Cooking Depot” is situated in Dickson’s Close, 118, High-street, a short way below the Tron Church. It is open from seven in the morning till six at night, and offers a breakfast consisting of a bowl of porridge, bowl of milk, cup of coffee or tea, and a slice of bread and butter, for 3d., and a dinner, which is to be had between the hours of one and four, consisting of broth or soup, bread, meat, potatoes, and plum, rice, or macaroni pudding, for 4|d. A cup of coffee or tea, a glass of sherbet or raspberry, &c., at Id. each, can also be had at any time. Every article is guaranteed of the best quality, and any can be had separately; but the dinners and breakfasts, as such, are supplied only at the stated hours. The entrance to this establishment is not all that could be wished, but the hall itself is large, airy, and well-lighted ; the viands appear to be really what they profess to be in regard to quality; in respect to quantity the portions are ample; and the service is prompt and sufficient, though wanting a little in the style of the Glasgow depots—a homely style enough though that be. Mr. Buchanan is, we believe, well pleased with the patronage he has obtained, and contemplates the early opening of another large hall, mainly with a view to improving his accommodation for females, at present rather scanty.—The Scotsman. LXI-BEER. Beer and wine met at Waterloo; wine, red with fury, boiling over with enthusiasm, mad with audacity, rose thrice against that hill on which stood a mass of immovable men—the sons of beer. You have read history; beer gained the day.—Esquiros. Englishmen, all over the world, are a beer-drinking people, and they keep up the habit in the Colonies. There are extensive breweries in all the cities and inland towns of Australia. Tooth’s brewery, at Sydney, is a large establishment, and so is Atkins’s, at Melbourne; but the ale they make is very inferior to that of the Degraves, in Tasmania, now carried on by Mr. James Milne Wilson. This ale is now very much called for in Melbourne; and even Messrs. Allsop, of Burton-on-Trent, must look to their well-earned laurels, or else the Tasmania ale will supplant their bitter beer in the Indian market. This latter English firm have lately finished the largest brewery in the world, and their ales are deservedly in great repute. The Lancet, an excellent authority on such matters, in- forms us “ that these bitter beers differ from all the other preparations of malt, in containing a smaller amount of extractive matter, thus being less viscid, and saccharine, and consequently more easy of digestion; they resemble, indeed, from their lightness, a wine of malt rather than an ordinary fermented infusion, and it is very satisfactory to find that a beverage of such general consumption is entirely free from every kind of impurity.” The Messrs. Walker, Button, Scott, and James and Co., have large brewing establishments in Tasmania, and they are contending for the lead in the pale ale race ; but at present “ Wilson’s brew ” is, by universal consent, the favourite beverage, and has distanced his competi- tors ; but Walker’s bitter beer is highly esteemed; it may yet take the lead. Both kinds are exported to Sydney and Melbourne, and the public are benefited by a fair trade rivalry. The last beer brewed by Wilson has obtained the name of the “ Golden tip ale,” from its being made from very superior yellow hops. One of the firm in London lately went to a large hop merchant, and asked the price of a number of pockets for Tas- mania. The merchant took the purchaser to a part of his store, and