GERMAN SOUR-KROUT. 187 company, and to see that the servants do their duty. Nothing can escape tlieir observation: your plate is never empty, and your glass always full; you are literally crammed, according to swinish rule. This mode requires first-rate servants, and plenty of them. The menu, or bill of fare in the French language, elegantly embossed, is placed beside each guest. The late King of Hanover had the name of the cook, by whom each dish was dressed, printed on rose-coloured paper on the carte, like the programme of a concert, with the name of the performers. The author of the “ Art of Dining,” evidently a first-rate connoisseur, writes that opinions are undecided as to dinners a la Eusse; but that on one occasion, in a country house in Northumberland, he saw them most pleasingly put in practice. Let us alter the poet’s lines by one word— “ For forms of dinners let fools contest; Whate’er is best administer’d is best.” When the Abbe de Pradt was sent by Napoleon to gain over Poland to his cause, the Emperor told him at parting, “ Tenez bonne table et soignez les femmes.'" There was no injunction as to the mode, and the advice shows a man having a master mind. “ G. H. M.,” in the London Times, wrote about two years ago in deprecation of the English style of cookery, and laudatory of the dinner a la Russe. The Illustrated Times informs us that during the past year a banquet was given to M. Eoulier at Willis’s Rooms, and that it was the most perfect public dinner ever served in England, proving that “ G. H. M.” was a master of the culinary art. The menu contained printed instructions as follows :—•“ Here dry champagne is preferable; ” again, “ No champagne allowed with the ducklings.” Reasons in Favour op a Russian Dinner.—Mr. Macborrowdale: You are a man of taste, Mr. Gryll; that (roast beef) is a handsomer ornament of a dinner-table than clusters of nosegays, and all sorts of uneatable decorations. I detest and abominate the idea of a Siberian dinner, where you just look on fiddle-faddles, while your dinner is behind a screen, and you are served with dinner like a pauper. The Rev. Dr. Opimian: I quite agree with Mr. Macborrowdale. I like to see my dinner; and herein I rejoice to have Addison on my side, for I remember a paper in which he objects to have roast beef placed on a sideboard. Even in his day it had been displaced to make way for some incomprehensible French dishes, among which he could find nothing to eat. I do not know what he would have said to its being placed altogether out of sight. Still, there is something to be said on the other side. There is hardly one gentleman in twenty who knows how to carve; and as to ladies, though they did know once on a time, they do not now. W at can be more pitiable than the right-hand man of the lady of the house, awkward enough in himself, with the dish twisted round to him in the most awkward possible position, digging in unutterable mortification for a joint which he cannot find, and wishing the unanatom isable volaille behind a Russian screen with the footman P—Gryll Grange, in “ Fraser's Magazine.” LXX1.—GERMAN SOUR-KROUT. It was suggested to a distinguished gourmet what a capital thing a dish all fins (turbot fins) might be made. ‘‘Capital,’’ said he; “dine on it with me to-morrow.” “ Accepted! ’’ Would you believe it P when the cover was removed, the sacrilegious dog of an Amphitryon had put into the dish, Cicero “De Finibm I” “There is a work all fing,” said he.—Bulwer. Take some full-grown cabbages, cut them in very thick slices, and put them in layers, of about two fingers’ thickness, in a tub, and sprinkle each