DRINKS. 269' Milk Punch.—Pare six oranges and lemons as thin as you can; grate them over with sugar to get the flavour. Steep the peels in a bottle of rum or brandy for twenty-four hours. Squeeze the fruit on two pounds of sugar, add to it four quarts of water, and one of new milk boiling hot. Add the rum. Run it through a jelly-bag, bottle and cork. Wines we have of grapes, and drinks of other juice, of fruits, of grains, and of roots ; and of mixtures with honey, sugar, manna, and fruits dried and decocted; also of the tears or wounding of trees, and of the pulp of canes. And these drinks are of several ages, some to the age or last of forty years. We have drinks also brewed with several herbs and roots and spices.—New Atalantis. Mulled Ale.—Boil a pint of good sound ale, with a little nutmeg and sugar; beat up three eggs, and mix them with a little cold ale ; then add the hot ale to it gradually, and pour backwards and forwards from one vessel to another, to prevent its curdling; -warm and stir till it thickens; then add a table-spoonful of brandy, and serve hot, with toast. Athol Brose.—Add two wine-glassfuls of Scotch whisky to a wine- glassful of heather-honey; mix well, and stir in a well-beaten egg. Dr. Kitchener informs us that toast-and-water is a refreshing summer drink, and that a roll of fresh lemon, or dried orange-peel, or apples sliced or roasted, are grate- ful additions to such beverage. This would be excellent drink for teetotalers, or for persons who cannot restrain themselves; and if any one is unable to master his appetites, it is a wise and prudent course for him to become a complete abstained although it is somewhat opposed to Scriptural authority:—“ Drink no longer water, but use a little wine for thy stomach’s sake, and thine often infirmities.”—1 Tim. v. 23. That most learned of all learned works, Burton’s “Anatomy of Melancholy,’’ tells ns that “ Temperance is a bridle of gold; and he that can use it aright is liker a, god than a man; for, as it will transform a beast to a man again, so will it make a man a $od.” The great moralist has informed us that he “ could abstain, but he could not trust himself to be temperate.” Yet it appears that in warm climates stimulants ara necessary. At the last meeting of the British Association at Newcastle, Dr. Hunt maintained that in India a certain amount of stimulant was required. To advocate a water, teetotal system was, he thought, entirely objectionable, as the troops certainly required some amount of stimulant for that climate. Paley says :—“ There is a differ- ence, no doubt, between convivial intemperance and that solitary sottishness which waits for neither company nor invitation. But the one, I am afraid, commonly ends in the other; and this last is the basest degradation to which the faculties and dignity of human nature can be rendered.” Although propounding many recipes, we desire to advocate the principles of temperance in both eating and drinking, for whoever cannot moderate himself in both enjoyments descends to the level of the lower creation, to which a certain Port Phillipian was once rather coarsely compared, in the Melbourne Punch:— “ The beasts that roam over the plain My form with indifference see; In truth, we are so much the same. And our habits entirely agree.” Bang.—Take a pint of cider, and add to a pint of warm ale; sweeten with sugar; grate in some nutmeg and ginger, and add a wine-glass of' whisky. King Cup.—Take the rind and juice of a lemon, a lump of sugar, a small piece of bruised ginger, and pour on them about a pint and a half' of boiliDg water. When cold strain, and add a wine-glass of sherry. Lemonade,—Take sixteen lemons, pare them, cut in halves, squeeze well, and throw them into a pan ; add a pound and a half of white sugar,