140 SOY.—BREAKFAST. Clubs.—Mrs. Gore writes that clubs are not bad things for family men. Thev act as conductors to the storms hovering in the air. The man forced to remain at home and vent his crossness on his wife and children, is a much worse animal to bear than the man who grumbles his way to Pall Mall, and not daring to swear at the club servants, or kirock about the club furniture, becomes socialised into decency. Nothin'” mi vfe. su'Jordmation exercised in a community of equals for reducing a fiery temper! Ike Original informs us that clubs aro favourable to temperance; it seems that when P®°P‘2,can freely please themselves excess is seldom committed. The 17,322 dinners at the Athenmum m '32, cost, on an average, 2s. 9£d, each, and the wine for each person consumed was a fraction over a pint. Expenses are discouraged. The Quarterly states that on one occasion the Iron Duke was charged fifteenpence for dining off a ‘joint at the Senior United Service, and that his grace bestirred himself to have the odd three- pence struck off; the motive being not to sanction the principle of an overcharge. LI—SOY. Thought is the stomach of the mind; learning is mental eating and digestion; schools mental eating-houses; teachers mental cooks; insane people those whose mental stomachs have been deranged.—Schulz Schulzenstein. There is very seldom any genuine soy to be obtained. The vulgar idea is that this condiment is generally made in the East from pounded cockroaches, well spiced. The principal place where soy is obtained is in Japan. It is a rough plant, growing to the height of six feet, and is called by Linnaeus the dolchicos soja. The pods produce a kind of bean, which is salted and fermented for use. There is nothing more relishing than this liquid when real; but that usually sold is manufactured in the neighbourhood of London from not the very best materials. The Chinese are great consumers of soy, and would give more for the article than any price to be obtained in the European market. Very tasty stuff may be made from one pound of salt, two pounds of dark brown sugar, fried and browned over a fire ; then add two pints of boiling water, a quarter of a pint of essence of anchovies, and a few herbs. Boil, and when cold, bottle, and fancy you are eating the real tropical dolchicos. Cockroaches.—Sailors have a notion that soy is made from cockroaches. The Chinese at Canton have a large soy manufactory, and they are particularly solicitous to obtain cockroaches from the ships. Cockroaches are used in fish baiting by the Chinese. Mr. Webster, surgeon of H.M.S. Chanticleer, states that salt and water, sub- stituted with cockroach juice, has all the flavour and qualities of soy.—Things Not Generally Known. Lll-BREAKFAST. “ I strut to the old caf<5, Hardy, which yet Beats the field at a dijeuner a la fourchctte. There, Dick, what a breakfast! Oh, not like your ghost Of a breakfast in England, your curst tea and toast; But a side-board, you dog, where one’s eye roves about Like a Turk’s in the harem, and thence singles out One paU of larks, just to tune up the throat; One’s small limbs of chickens, done en papillate; Or one’s kidneys, imagine, Dick, done with champagne!” The Fudge Family in Paris. This matutinal meal should be remarkably well served, and the articles good of their kind. The housekeeper or mistress of the estab-