BEER. 16? water are to be put with them into a copper and made to boil. Crushed malt, to the amount of twelve scheffels, is to be worked about in the mash- tub, with ninety gallons (English) of cold water, to a thick pap, and then six barrels (English) of cold water are to be suddenly introduced, with constant stirring, and left to stand an hour at rest. The potatoes having been meanwhile boiled to a fine starch paste, the whole malt mash, thin and thick, is to be speedily ladled into the copper, and this mixture is to be stirred for an hour, taking care to keep the temperature at from 144° to 156° F. all the time, in order that the diastase of the malt may con- vert the starch present in the two substances into sugar and dextrine. This transformation is made manifest by the white pasty liquid becoming transparent and thin. Whenever this happens the fire is to be raised, to make the mash boil, and to keep it at its heat for ten minutes. The fire is then withdrawn, the contents of the copper are to be transferred into the mash, worked well there, and left to settle for half an hour ; during which time the copper is to be washed out, and quickly charged once more with boiling water. The clear wort is to be drawn off from the tun, as usual, and boiled as soon as possible with the due proportion of hops, and the boiling water may be added in any desired quantity to the drained mash for the second mashing. Wort made in this way is said to have no flavour whatever of the potato, and to clarify more easily than malt wort, from its containing a smaller proportion of gluten relatively to that of saccharine. We have condensed the foregoing recipe from Ure’s “Dictionary,” and in reference to the potato beer, we should state that Zimmermann thinks it is quite equal, if not superior, to pure malt beer, both in appearance and quality. Professor Brande gives the quantity of alcohol (of the specific of 825 at 60) by measure contained in 100 parts, as follows:— Brown stout 6’80 London porter 4'20 Small beer 1'28. We must conclude this notice of malt liquors with an anecdote from the “Quarterly,” which is beery. Madame Pasta, when in England, was asked by a literary lady of high distinction whether she drank as much porter as usual, “No, mia cara, prendo half-and-half, adesso.” Ale.—Lord Bacon attributed anti-consumptive virtues to ale; and Dr. Hodgkin asserts that the invalid wl ) has been reduced almost to extremity by severe or linger- ing illness, finds in well apportioned draughts of sound beer one of the most important helps to his recovery of health, strength, and spirits. This is when drank in moderation, but if taken to excess, sleepiness follows its use, showing that the narcotic principle of the hop produces an effect upon the brain. In seven cases out of ten, malt-liquor drunkards die of apoplexy or palsy; thus is a liquor abused, which, if taken in modera- tion, is wholesome; so much so, that Sydenham, in his last treatise, writes, “A draught of small beer is to me instead of a supper.” While the great bard makes Autolycus say, in the Winter’s Tale, that “ A quart of ale is a dish for a king.” Jackson, the cele- brated trainer— “ Men unpractised in exchanging knocks Must go to Jackson ere they learn to box”— affirmed that, if any person accustomed to wine, would try malt liquor for a month, he would find himself so much the better for it that he would soon take the one and abandon the other. Herodotus states, that in early history the art of making a fermented liquor from barley was discovered by the Egyptians. Dr. Paris writes, “ The liquor called ale was originally made of barley, malt, and yeast alone." We are told by one of the oldest