BREAD AKD BREAKFAST CAKES. 74 Cottage Bread.—Pat into a pan fourteen pounds of flour; add to a. quart of warm water a quarter of a pint of good yeast; make a hole in the flour, pour in the water and the yeast, stir it well with a wooden spoon until it forms a thickish paste, throw a little flour over, and leave it in a warm place. In about an hour it will have risen, and burnt through the covering of flour; then add more warm water, and three tea- spoontuls of salt. Until it forms, when kneaded, a rather stiff dough, it cannot be too much worked. Then let it remain, covered with a cloth, an hour. After a time, divide it into loaves and bake for an hour and a quarter. In making- home-made bread an increase of weight equal to a fifth is said to arise it bran water is used for working the dough. Eelvidere Oakes.—Take one quart of flour, four eggs, a piece of butter the size of an egg; mix the butter with the flour, beat the eggs together with cold milk ; then pour gradually into the flour, add a tea- spoonful of salt, work it for a few minutes, cut the dough the size of a breakfast-plate, and bake in a quick oven. Pandarus: Ay! to the leavening; hut here’s yet in the word. Hereafter to the kneading, the malting of the cake, the heating of the oven, and the baking; nay, you must stay the cooliug too, or you may chance to burn your lips.—Troilus and Cressida. Eice Cakes.—Breakfast cakes are made sometimes from rice, which are easily digestible. Put half a pound of rice to soak over night; early in the morning boil it very soft, drain it from the water, mix with it a quarter of a pound of butter, and. set it away to cool. AVhen cold stir in a quart of milk, and add to it a little salt; beat up six eggs and mix with half a pint of flour ; stir the eggs and flour into the rice and milk. Having mixed the whole, bake it on the girdle in cakes the size of a dessert-plate, butter them, and send to table hot. Eolls.—Take nine ounces of flour, and an ounce and a half of butter, and rub them together; then take four spoonfuls of yeast, half a cup of milk, the yolk of one egg beaten, and mix them together; pour on them the flour, and water, and butter, working them lightly with the hand. The finest and best baked bread is that which is made of farina, abounding in gluten ; for this latter body, rising in large blisters by the dilatation of the gases imprisoned within it, allows each feculent grain to participate in the communication of the heat, and to burst as it would by boiling. Hence, after panification, if the paste has been well kneaded, we do not find a single grain of fecula entire.—Easpail’s “ Organic Chemistry,” by Henderson. Dr. Dauglish proposes a new system of making “ aerated bread.” The distinguishing characteristic is to do away with the old plan of fermentation by yeast and hand kneading. For yeast, Dr. Dauglish substitutes carbonic acid gas, which produces all the effects on the flour to turn it into bread. The machinery occupies little space, and is managed by one man, and every sack of flour, by this method, will yield five 41b. loaves more than the present process of fermentation. The process is simple, and consists of a gas holder and a generator, an air pump, suitable to condensed elastic fluids, a mixing vessel, and a water vessel in connection with it. The flour is first of all emptied from the granary down a long shoot into the mixer, which is a hollow sphere of cast iron, constructed so as to resist an internal pressure of lOOlbs. to the square inch. The mixer is then closed so as to be air-tight, and all the air is pumped out until a vacuum of about 271bs. to the square inch is produced. This done, the carbonic acid gas is admitted into the water through a pipe passing from the reservoir to the