BITTERS. 210 collection, “The Cook,” by Head, the author says that no cayenne is to be used in curry powder. We fancy a Bengalee or Malay would laugh at such a foolish recommendation. The following are our propor- tions :—Mustard seed, one ounce and a half; coriander, four ounces; turmeric, four and a quarter ounces; black pepper, two and a half ounces cayenne, one ounce and a quarter; ginger, half an ounce; cinnamon, cloves, and mace, each, quarter of' an ounce. To be well pounded and mixed, and kept in a stoppered bottle in a dry place. Oil v. Butter.—One day a certain bon vivant abbd came to Fontenelle, who lived witliin a month of a hundred years. The abbe was fond of asparagus dressed with hutter, but Fontenelle preferred it dressed -with oil. The latter said that for such a friend there was no sacrifice he would not make, and that he should have half the dish of asparagus which he had ordered for himself, and, moreover, that half should he dressed with butter. While they were thus conversing together, the poor abbe fell down in a fit of apoplexy, upon which Fontenelle instantly scampered down-stairs and bawled out to his cook, “ The whole with oil—the whole with oil, as at first! ”—Table Anecdoles. LXXXVI1.—BITTERS. Some physiologists will have itrthat the stomach is a mill; others, that it is a ferment- ing vat; others again, that it is a stewpan; but, in my view of the matter, it is neither a mill, a fermenting vat, nor a stewpan, but a stomach, gentlemen, a stomach.—Hunter’s Lectures. Make your own bitters as follows, and we can vouch for their supe- riority :—One ounce and a half of gentian-root, one ounce and a half of lemon-peel, one ounce and a half of orange-peel. Steep these ingre- dients for about a month in a quart of sherry, and then strain and bottle for use. Bitters are a fine stomachic, but they must be used with caution. Bitters and tonics are often confounded, whereas there is a great difference between them. When weakness proceeds from excess of irritability, these bitters are beneficial; because all bitters are poisons, and operate by stilling, and depressing, and lethargising the irritability. But where weakness proceeds from the opposite cause of relaxation, then tonics are good ; because they brace up and tighten the loosened string. Bracing is a correct metaphor. Bark goes near to be a bitter and a tonic; but no perfect medical combination of the two properties is yet known.— Coleridge. Gentiana Lutea, the common yellow gentian, which is said to owe its name to Gentian, King of Illyria, who introduced it as a medicine 170 years before Christ. The roots of the plant are collected and dried by the peasants of Switzerland, the Tyrol, and the Auvergne. The bitter of the gentian is agreeable and aromatic; it is much used in medicine, and'has, on some occasions, been employed instead of hops in beer.—Ure-