2 sours. ■which have been browned in a pan—the quantity of vegetables depending on the quantity of meat. Simmer for four or five hours; take out the meat, and strain the stock for use. Soup in an Hour.—Chop two pounds of beef into pieces, add a carrot; turnip, an onion, some celery, all cut up, and put with the meat into a saucepan ; season it with pepper and salt, and add a quantity of water. Let it boil an hour, and strain it through a tamis sieve. You can serve the meat with gravy, adding a few fine herbs, or parsley and butter, just as you please. * Chicken Sour.—“Here, waiter, talre this to the landlady, with my compliments, and say, if she has no objection, you'll draw the chickens through it again." Turtle Soup.—The following is the simplest mode that we can recommend:—Hang up the turtle the night before it is to be dressed, cut off its head, or a weight may be placed on its back, to make it extend itself. When dead, cut the belly part clear off, sever the fins at the point, take away the white meat, and put it into water. Draw, cleanse, and wash the entrails; scald the fins, the head, and the belly shells; saw the shell about two inches deep all round, scald and cut it into pieces; put the head, shell, and fins in a pan, cover them with stock, add shalots, thyme, marjoram, and spice—chop the herbs. Stew it till tender, then take out the meat, and strain the liquor through a sieve. Cut the fins in three pieces, and take out all the brown—as the meat is called—from the bones, and cut it in square pieces. Melt some butter in a stewpan, and put the white meat to it; simmer it till nearly done, then take it out of the liquor, and cut it into slices of a medium size. Cover the bowels, lungs, heart, &c., with stock, and herbs and spices, and stew them till tender. The liver must be boiled by itself, being bitter, and not improving the colour of the other entrails, which should be kept as white as possible. The entrails being done, taken up, and cut in pieces, strain the liquor through a sieve. Melt a pound of butter in a stewpan large enough to hold all the meat; stir in half a pound of flour, put in the liquor, and stir the whole until well mixed. Make a number of forcemeat balls; put to the whole three pints of Madeira wine, a high seasoning of cayenne pepper, salt, and the juice of two lemons. The deep shell must be baked, whether filled or not, as the meat must be browned. The shell being thus filled, the remainder is to be served in tureens. In filling up the shells and tureens, a little fat should be put at the bottom, the lean in the centre, and eggs and forcemeat balls, with part of the entrails, on the top. Be cautious not to study a brown colour, the natural green being preferred by every connoisseur. If you warm turtle soup often, it loses its flavour. The fins of the turtle make a luxurious side dish. Turtle may be enjoyed in steaks, cutlets, or fins. The usual allowance for a dinner in the City of London is six pounds, live weight, per head. The New Monthly advises the epicure, if he would enjoy turtle in perfection, to journey to the West Indies, where they are too plentiful to require the meretricious aid of stock or gravy. Turtle soup may he kept for a few weeks by being covered an inch thick with lard. The green fat is the gourmet’s reyina volwptatis, remember.