SUPPERS AND LUNCHEONS. 129 field officers, by a new regulation, do so, although they have sold out of the army.—Eboracum. The term “esquire” is not (as “Country House” supposes) in- definite and undefined. Men are esquires by birth, office, or creation. An esquire by birth is one, or the son of one, entitled to bear arms ; so Admiral Rous is H. J. Rous, Esq., commonly called the Honourable H. J. Rous. A justice of the peace is an esquire by office, and a barrister an esquire by creation. In II. Blackstone’s Reports there is a case where the court refused to hear an affidavit in which a barrister was not entitled esquire. With reference to his dinner party, colonels, post- captains, serjeants, and doctors of the three learned professions, hold equal rank according to the date of their commissions, patents, or degrees. Clergymen rank with esquires.* Therefore the colonel and post-captain would go first according to the date of their commissions; then would come the clergyman, the J. P., and the barrister, as each was ordained, created, or called to the bar ; Crcesus, if a merchant engaged in business, would not necessarily be an esquire ; e.g., the late Jemmy Wood, of Gloucester, was only Mr. Wood, or, on an affidavit, James Wood, Gent. It is the use of the term only that is indefinite and undefined.— J. W. Slade in the “Field” country gentleman's newspaper. The Braise.—Meat should be half-cooked (braised) before it is put into paste; as should also forcemeat used in savoury meat pies. XLVI-SUPPERS AND LUNCHEONS. Would that the cook were of my mind. Don John in “Much Ado about Nothing.” We say little respecting the above, because we consider them unne- cessary and unwholesome. A person who partakes of a luncheon cannot possibly enjoy his dinner; and any one eating supper must loathe his breakfast, which ought to be the principal meal of the day. The utmost limit that we can advise in either case is a glass of sherry and a biscuit. “ Nimrod” writes, that a hot luncheon is a most destructive meal; and half the young men who lose their health or their lives in the East Indies, are destroyed by the excitement of hot luncheons, followed by still hotter dinners. Hook describes a stand-up supper, in “ Gilbert Gurney,” as “ tables against the wall, covered with cold negus and warm ice, where men, women, and children take perpendicular refreshment, like so many horses with their noses to the manger.” Suppers : the even ini? meal, the last meal of the day. Supper is generally an unnecessary meal, and when either heavy or taken at a period not long before that i f retiring to rest, proves nearly always injurious, preventing sound and refreshing sleep, and occasioning unpleasant dreams, nightmare, biliousness, and all the worst symptoms of imperfect digestion. Cases of sudden death during sleep, arising from the stomach being overloaded with undigested food, are far from rare. The last meal of the day should be taken at least three hours before bed-time. Even when it consists of some J