XLill—THE HUNDRED GUINEA DISH. Two things which are very necessary to a perfect dinner are noiseless attendants, and a precision in serving the various dishes in each course, so that they may he all placed on the table at the same moment. A deficiency in these respects produces that bustle and delay which distract many an agreeable conversation, and spoil many a pleasant dish.—Tailored; or, the New Crusade. This dish was devised by Soyer for the Exhibition banquet, given by the Lord Mayor of York, in 1850, to Prince Albert, whom Tennyson so poetically calls, “ Silent father of our kings to be.” In a work on Cookery such a dish should find a place as a curiosity. The lamented . Prince is no more : “ We have lost him—he is gone; We kn6w him now: all narrow jealousies Are silent, and we see him as he moved— How modest, kindly, all-accomplished, wise! ”— taken from us in early life, realising the classic saying from Herodotus, that “ those whom the gods love die young but nowhere is his memory held in greater respect than in the Colonies; for he was a man whom they may, without any adulatory compliment, say, “We ne’er shall look upon his like again.”* As the husband of our Queen, having no political position, he gave his time to the honourable pursuits of agriculture and the encouragement of the arts, evincing Attic taste of no ordinary calibre, und showing a marked contrast to many of the same rank and station, who have wasted their lives and destroyed their health in ignoble pursuits. Moreover, Prince Albert’s character in the common relations of our being, as partner and parent, has afforded a praiseworthy example for imitation to the nobility, the gentry, and the commonalty of England, as well as their respective equals in the Colonies. The honoured and respected guest as well as the great cuisinier have gone to “ that bourne from whence no traveller returns; ” or, to use still more simple and affecting language, to where “ the weary are at rest.” But the list of articles that formed the celebrated dish and their cost remain—“ Sic transit gloria mundi.” The death of a relation o. of an esteemed person in a high position must always carry “ the wise who think ” to the beautiful lines of Gray, that the immortal Wolfe said, previously to the fight that decided the fate of Canada, he would rather have written, than conquer the French, which he did next day, and died in the arms of Victory:— “ The boast of heraldry, the pomp of power, And all that beauty, all that wealth e’er gave. Await alike tli’ inevitable hour— The paths of glory lead hut to the grave! ” _ This was written long before the account reached the Colony of the same words being used on the Prince Consort’s Memorial at South Kensington, as many colonists can testify who perused this work in MS.