279 DRINKS. •glass of sherry or curacoa, the peel of a lemon cut very thin, powdered sugar according to taste. Let the whole remain an hour or two before serving, and then add some lumps of clear ice. No. 2. To the above add a few slices of cucumber, or some sprigs of borage instead of the cucumber. No. 3. As No. 1, except the lemon-peel, for which substitute, when in season, a pint of ripe raspberries or four or five peaches or nectarines cut in slices. This is a most delicious beverage.—Frederick, Johnson (Watli- upon-Dearne, Rotherham). Brandy Smash: a nip of brandy, a table-spoonful of port wine, a table-spoonful of ice; sugar and water to taste, with a sprig of mint. John Collins is a composition of gin, sugar, syrup, and soda-water. Shandy Graff; equal proportions of ale and ginger-beer. Bishop.—Take three best oranges, and grill them to a pale brown •colour over a clear fire. Place them in a small punch-bowl, and pour over them half a pint of claret, in which a pound and a quarter of loaf sugar is dissolved, and cover it. When served, cut the oranges into pieces, and place in a jug containing the remainder of the bottle of claret, made hot. Some use Lisbon wine instead of claret. Fine oranges Well roasted with sugar, and wine in a cup. They’ll a sweet bishop make when gentlefolks sup.—Swift. Cardinal.—This compound is made the same way as bishop, only old wine of the Rhine is used. Pope: made in a similar manner to cardinal, only using tokay, vermuth, or malmsey. Cocoa-nut toddy is much in demand in the neighbourhood of villages, especially where European troops are stationed. When it is drunk before sunrise it is a cool, •delicious, and particularly wholesome beverage; but by eight or nine o’clock fermenta- tion has made some progress, and it is then highly intoxicating.—Marshall's “ History of ■the Cocoa-nut Tree." Arrack: a spirituous liquor from the East Indies. This term, or its corruption, rack, is applied to any spirituous liquor in the East. The true arrack is said +o be distilled from toddy, the fermented juice of the cocoa-nut tree. It is, however, frequently distilled from rice and sugar, fermented with the cocoa-nut juice.— Ure. Crambambull.—Take two bottles of porter or ale and boil them; then add half a pint of rum, and from half a pound to a pound of white sugar. After this has boiled remove it from the fire, and put into the mixture the whites arid yolks of six eggs previously well whisked. Stir it for a minute, and serve in a punch-bowl. Devilled Ale.—Cut a slice of bread about an inch thick, toast and butter it; then sprinkle it with cayenne pepper and ginger, and place in the bottom of a jug; add a pint of warm ale, and sugar to taste. Liqueur de Quatre Fruit.—Tako strawberries, raspberries, currants, and morella