CHOCOLATE.—CURRY POWDER. 209 mice at his entry, and therefore takes care to drop in when you are just seated. takes his place, after having discomposed everybody, and desires that there may be no ceremony. Then does he begin to call himself the saddest fellow, in disappointing so many places as he was invited to elsewhere. It is the fop’s vanity to name houses of better cheer, and to acquaint you that he names yours out of ten dinners which he was obliged to be at that day. The last time I had the fortune to eat with him, he was imagining how very fat he should have been, had he eaten all he has ever been invited to. But it is impertinent to dwell upon the manners of such a wretch as obliges all whom he disappoints, though his circumstances constrain them to be civil to him. But there are those that every one would be'glad to see who fall into the same detestable habit.—The Spectator. LXXXV-C H O C O L AT E. Thus, at the outset, he was gastronomic, discussed the dinner from the soup to the Stilton, criticised the cutlets, pronounced upon the merits of the mutton, and threw out certain vague hints that he would one day astonish the world by a litLle volume on cookery.—Major Monsoon in “ Charles O’Malley.” Chocolate is a rich breakfast beverage. Do not grate it, but cut the quantity required, and boil it in water. To an ounce of chocolate put an ounce and a half of boiling water ; add cream or milk. Do not allow it to boil over if you desire the flavour to be preserved, and it must not b(t boiled a second time. The prepared homoeopathic cocoa is highly spoken of as an excellent preparation for an early meal, wholesome, devoid of fatty matter, and digestible. Messrs. Fry and Son’s homoeopathic cocoa is recommended for invalids and persons subject to dyspepsia. Messrs. Fry, of London and Bristol, were awarded medals at the Exhibitions of London, Paris, and New York, eo that their preparation has a world- wide celebrity. Courtesy at Dinner.—Some hosts are s,adly wanting in attention to their guests. A Lord Lyttelton, one of this class, was very absent in company. His lordship one day pointed out a particular di3h and asked for it, calling it by another name. A gentleman .at table was about to tell him of his mistake. “Never mind,’’ whispered another; “ helj him to what he asked for, and he will suppose it is what he wanted."—Table Anecdotes. LXXXVI.-CURRY POWDER. A gay Trench marquis came accidentally on the celebrated Descartes enjoying him- self in eating an excellent dinner. “ What! do you philosophers eat dainties ? ’’ asked the former. When the latter replied, “Do you think that God made good things only for fools ? ”—Life of Descartes. Indian servants differ in the relative quantities of the different in- gredients used in the manufacture of curry stuff. They invariably make it as they want it, from the best ingredients. We have even seen it made in this way on board IudLimen. The powder sold at the shops ia invariably adulterated ; there may be exceptions, but they are rare ; foi if the articles are dearer when singly purchased than the curry stuff, it is impossible for the latter to be pure, that’B certain. In a book in our o