OYSTEKS. GS their shells clean—then put your oysters into an earthen pot, with their hollow sides down; then put this pot, covered, into a great kettle with water, and so let them boil. Your oysters are thus dressed in their own liquor, and not mixed with water.—Sicift's Letters. Oysters Stewed.—Put a pint of oysters into a stewpan, with their own liquor ; add to the liquor a quarter of a pint of cream or milk, some mace and cayenne, and a little salt; when it boils stir in an ounce of butter mixed smoothly with a little flour, then put in the oysters, bearded, or not, as you choose. A few moments’ simmering is sufficient, and when ready to serve add a little lemon-juice. Oysters Eoasted.—Place the oysters in their shells between the bars- of a fire, or over a clear fire. In five minutes they will be clone. Oysters Fried.—Make a batter of eggs, milk, and flour, season it with pepper and salt, dip the oysters into the batter, which ought to be rather thick, and fry them of a light brown. A little nutmeg and bread- crumbs should be added to the seasoning. Oyster Sauce.—Put three dozen bearded oysters into half a pint of melted butter. Let them just come to the boiling point, then put the whole into a basin. Strain the liquor from them; add sufficient milk and a little mace and cayenne. Set by fire to become hot, but not to boil. With rump-steaks or roast poultry, too much butter destroys the oysters’ flavour. Oyster Patties.—Put paste into patty-pans, and cover them, with a bit of bread on each; bake them, and by the time they are done have ready the following to fill them with on taking out the bread :—Take off the beards of the oysters, cut the other parts in small bits, put them into a small saucepan, with a little nutmeg, white pepper and salt, lemon, cream1 and a small quantity of the oyster liquor. Simmer for a few minutes, and fill the patty-pans. Some prefer the oyster put into the patty, and baked with the crust. Oysters Marinaded.—Put the oysters into a saucepan for a few minutes, to blanch with their liquor, take them out, lay them on a linen cloth to drain; next place them for an hour in lemon-juice or vinegar, pepper and salt, and a little nutmeg ; dip them into batter, and fry them. Oysters Scalloped.—Open the shells carefully, and let the oysters remain in the scallop-shell; put some butter, bread-crumbs, and a little mace into the shells, and brown in a Dutch oven before the fire. Send them to table hot. They may be treated in a similar way and baked. In Europe, oysters and I’rench chdblis is the correct thing, either at lunch or the commencement of a recherchS repast; and in the Colonies the cliablis maybe exchanged, for Blake’s kaleedah, and the comparison “maybe odorous,” as “ Mrs. Malaprop" has it. Oysters Broiled.—Take them from the shells and beard them, and put them with their liquor into scallop-tins, with a little pepper and butter. Put the shells upon a gridiron, over a good fire, and serve them when plump and hot. Squeeze a little lemon-juice on them as they con e from the fire.