XIII.—SAVOURY PIES AND PUDDINGS, pIES._“ Well, though. I’ve heard you say,” said George, “that Jenny was a pretty fair cook.” “ So I did,” said Aunt Chloe, “ I may say dat. Good, plain, common cookin’ Jenny ’ll do : make a good pone of bread, bile her taters far. Her corn cakes isn’t extra, not extra, now, Jenny’s corn cakes isn’t, but then they’s far. But Lor, come to the higher branches, and what can she do P "Why, she make pies—sartain she does ; but what kinder crust? Can she make your real flecky paste, as melts in your mouth, and lies all up like a puff ? Now, I went over thar when Miss Mary was gwine to be married, and Jenny, she jest showed me de weddm’ pies. Jenny and I is good fi’iends, ye know : I never said nothin’; but go along, Mas’r George! Why, I shouldn’t sleep a wink for a week if I had a batch of pies like them ar j why, dey wan’t no 'count’t all.”—bade Tom’s CaMn. Eump-Steak Pie.—Cut two pouuds of rump-steaks into pieces; chop very fine a few slialots, and mix them with half an ounce of pepper and salt mixed. Strew some of the mixture on each layer of steaks, and so on until the dish is full. Add a mushroom ketchup and thickening, with a few’ hard-boiled eggs. A few oysters is an improvement. The paste is elsewhere given. Chicken, rabbit, fowl and ham, lamb, fish, partridge, quail, and pigeon are made in a similar way. The general mode is to stew the meats before putting them into the crust. Oyster, lobster, crayfish, chicken and ham, veal and mutton patties are made in a like way. With a partridge or pigeon pie, place a beef-steak over as well as under the birds. The Strasburg pates, made from geese livers, have a world-wide reputation. Game Pie for Christmas.—Take a pheasant, a hare, a capon, two pigeons, and two rabbits; bone them and put them into the paste in the shape of a bird, with the livers and hearts, two mutton kidneys, force- meat and egg balls, seasoning, spice, ketchup, and mushrooms, filled up with gravy made from the different bones, and bake sufficiently.— London Salters' Company's Books in the Reign of Richard II. Raised Pies.—Take a pound and a half of the best lard, and three quarters of a pint of new milk. Boil them together, stir the boiling mixture into four pounds of flour ; knead the paste well, and set it down before the fire for twenty minutes before using. To raise the crust of a pie, you must make your paste warm, roll it out, and mould it in a mould. When cold take it off, and. fill it up with pork or veal, which must be cut up small, seasoned with white pepper, salt, and dried sage, put on the top, and egg if you like. Fancy leaves can be laid on the top, to make it ornamental. Bake well. Any kind of meat, poultry, or game may be put into raised pies. Sometimes tlie crust is made bard and ornamental in a mould called a timbale (to raise the crust of a pie in this way without a mould is rather a difficult manipulation); and on other occasions the crust is made for eating. liaised pies of vegetables alone are an exquisite dish. Sea Pie.—Make a thick crust, as for a pudding ; line a dish with it, put in a layer of sliced onions, then a layer of salt beef cut in slices, a layer of potatoes sliced, a layer of pork, and another of onions. Strew pepper over all, and cover with the crust, and tie with a cloth, well