25' MADE DISHES. Curry.—Cut meats, fowls, or rabbits into small joints, and fry them brown in a pan with an onion chopped up. When half done take them out and put them into a stewpan, with two table-spoonfuls of curry stuff and a dredge of flour, and let it simmer with the juice of half a lemon, a table-spoonful of butter, and a little ketchup. The Bengal, Malay, or Madras curries are excellent and wholesome dishes; but a curry in a deluge of broth, with meats floating about like so many islands, is an abomination. Prawx Curry ai Ceylon.—A sort of grand servitor of tlie house, in a specially white cotton garment and an extra big tortoise-shell comb, arranged the table in a style that only needed some orange blossoms and tinfoil to look like a small wedding; and when I took my preliminary sip of sherry I found it almost incumbent to make a little pleasant speech to myself, and return thanks in a proper soliloquy. The prawns were sublime. I seem to forget the accessories of sauce and vegetables. Dr. Johnson once said of a lady that she had been so well dressed that he could not recollect what she had on: and my prawns were just as well dressed as that lady. Half an hour was spent in a dreamy enjoyment of a dry curry and Amontillado, my v'hite attendant quietly looking on like a benign spectre. Talking would have spoiled the thing. I pointed to a slender-stemmed wine glass, of the substance of a soap bubble, and waved my hand with a gesture of confidence, as Captain Cook might have done to a Polynesian savage. The tortoise-shell comb bowed gracefully, as divining my desires, and moved away as gently as a tortoise-shell cat. The -wine was rich as ever ripened on a volcano. With delicately deferential, but quietly decisive manner, the spectre removed the dJbris of the first course. Green cocoa-nut curry was the next item in the programme. The first spoonful threw me into a paroxysm of astonishment and delight; my bosom throbbed, and I think a tear fell on my fourth plate. A little slow music would at this juncture, perhaps, have tranquillised the system. A melodious gurgling alone broke the silence. Sparkling St. Peray of 1811, the year of the great comet, candied pine-apple,, jack fruit, marischino, mango jam, cigars, and coffee, are all that I can clearly recollect afterwards, except that my ghostly guardian extended my legs on the telescope chair, undid my necktie, and sprinkled me with rose water.—Austral, in “ Once a Week.” Curries may be made of any lean meats, or of any kind of fish, lobsters, crayfish;, prawns, or oysters, or vegetables. An Indian prawn curry is reckoned the best made, and potatoes alone curried are very good indeed. A Malay curry is superior to either those of Bengal or Madras, and a dish of this kind is not full flavoured without tomatoes and scraped cocoa-nut, with some of the milk. Acids or pickles are taken with curry and ham. Stewed Blimp-steaks.—Take two pounds of steaks, and put them, into a stewpan with just sufficient water to cover them, and let them simmer for half an hour; then add six large onions whole, with a little pepper and salt, a carrot cut up, and some thickening, consisting of two table-spoonfuls of flour and some ketchup, and a tea-spoonful of mustard. Let it simmer for an hour longer, and the steaks will be done. They ■ must be sufficiently cooked, and at the same time not “ done to rags,” or they are spoilt. \ A la Mode Beef.—Take ten pounds of lean beef of any kind, cut it into small pieces, put two ounces of beef dripping and a couple of onions into a stewpan. As soon as it is hot, flour the meat and put it into the pan ; keep stirring it about. When it has been some few minutes in the.pan, dredge it with flour, and cover it with boiling water. Skim it when it boils, and put in one drachm of black pepper, two of allspice, and four bay leaves. Set the pan by the side of the lire, and let it simmer for three hours. When you find the meat sufficiently tender serve it in a tureen; and when cold it ought to jelly.