LXXII-STRASBOURG PIES. In a club, nothing is so prejudicial as had carving. A joint, ill carved'at first by one, is always disregarded by the other members; and frequently, from this circumstance, a joint of great weight and price is no longer presentible, and is left to the loss of the establishment.—Ude. The Pates de foie gras, for which Strasbourg has been so long cele- brated, were commonly said to be principally made from the livers of geese, subject to great torture, by being fed to repletion, but without water, before a fierce fire, until their fivers became enlarged with disease. Hence epicures began to feel some qualms of conscience for indulging in ■these luxuries obtained by such cruel means, when Alexis Soyer, the famed cuisinier, visited Strasbourg, and, in a letter to the Courier du Bus Rhin, says: “ After having carefully examined the subject, I can declare that there is not one word of truth in the general belief. Up to the age of eight months,” he adds, “ the geese are allowed to feed at full liberty in the open air. They are then brought to market, and purchased by the persons whose occupation it is to fatten them for killing. They are placed in coops, and fed, for about a month or five weeks, three times a day with wheat, and allowed as much water as they please. Each bird -eats about a bushel of corn during the process of fattening, the water of Strasbourg, it is said, contributing to increase the volume of the fiver. When sufficiently fat they are killed, having been treated with the greatest attention and humanity during the whole period of their incarceration, and entirely removed from any unusual heat.”—Things Not Generally Known. Digestion.—A goad digestive system is the basis of other parts, including the brain. It sustains mental application, and seems to be a principal condition of good animal spirits, and the hearty temperament. It naturally, although not necessarily, leads to the love of good eating, and must therefore be taken along with the alimentative organ in determining the epicurean propensity. As regards the power of mental labour, a good digestion is even of more importance than good muscles.—Bain, in “ Fraser’s Magazine.” LXXIII-HERRING AND ANCHOVY PASTE. Athenoeus maintains, with great truth, that cookery is an important element in the advancement of civilisation, and that crudity of food and thought are interdependent.— The Lancet. * If the reader is fond of herring or anchovy paste, let him not purchase the artificial coloured compounds under this head sold in pots, but make it himself, and he will have the articles unadulterated. It will not look so well, perhaps, but it will be much more wholesome. Soak herring or anchovies in warm beer or water, then take out all the bones and skins, and pound them with a small quantity of butter, some good cayenne, and