240 SCRAPS AND SAYINGS. Tortoise-shell and horn combs last much longer for having oil rubbed on them occasionally. Lamps will have a les3 disagreeable smell if you dip the wicks in strong vinegar, and dry them. Britannia ware should be first rubbed gently with a woollen cloth and sweet oil, then washed in warm suds, and rubbed with soft leather and whitening. Silver may be cleaned by warm suds, and then rubbed with soft leather. Eggs will keep any reasonable length of time in lime-water properly prepared. New iron must be gradually heated, or it is apt to crack. Clean a brass kettle, before using it, with salt and vinegar. Never wash marble mantelpieces with suds, as it destroys their polish. Feathers should be thoroughly dried before being used. Jamaica rum is better for the hair than Macassar oil. Cream of tartar wall cleanse white kid gloves. Cheese will keep if covered carefully with paper. Pulverised alum possesses the property of purifying water. Woollens should be washed in very hot suds, and not rinsed ; luke- warm water shrinks them. Do not let knives l^e dropped into hot dish-water. Keep your salt-spoons out of the salt, and clean them often. Suet and lard keep better in tin than in earthen. Suet will keep all the year round, if chopped and packed in a stone- jar, covered with molasses. It is poor economy to buy vinegar in small quantities. If beer grows sour, it may be used to advantage in pancakes and fritters. If you have a large family, keep white rags from coloured ones—“A penny saved is a penny got.” Keep an old blanket and sheet for ironing, and on no account allow any other to be used. Have plenty of holders, that your towels may not be used on such service. Have plenty of towels in the kitchen. It is easy to preserve horseradish for winter use, by steeping it in vinegar, after being scraped. Run the heels of stockings faithfully, and mend the holes. “A stitch in time saves nine.” Green tea is an excellent restorative of silk Milk will remove ink-stains. Butter should be potted down for winter use, and a stock of lard in the season. It is a bad plan to allow clothes to remain too long dirty. Care must be taken to have bacon and hams secured from the fly. Herbs for kitchen use should be cut and dried, but not in the sun.