SAVOURY PIES AND PUDDINGS. 44 floured, so that it will not stick when done. Boil for a couple of hours, and serve. _ large dinners, two cold pies of game or poultry are often sent to table with the nrst course, and allowed to remain between the courses. By this means, the epicure and dainty eater always has something before him. The pies are not in the way, but improve the appearance of the table.—Ude. Devonshire Squab Pie.—Lay mutton-chops, or mutton, at the bottom of the dish; on the meat strew some onions, with pepper, salt, a little sugar, and half a tea-cupful of water. Place on the top apples and potatoes, in layers, cut thin ; cover the sides and top of the dish with crust, and bake well. In Devonshire and Cornwall the facility offered for baiting is great, from the quantity or furze; and the use of pies is so general, that there is a proverb, “ that the devil will -not come into Cornwall, for fear of being put in a pie.” French Vol-au-vent.—Prepare puff paste; make an under-crust of short paste as thick as a penny piece; moisten it a little, and over this 'Crust put some puff paste, well rolled. Put these two crusts, thus placed over each other, at the bottom of a pie-dish ; cover it with a lid the size intended for the vol-au-vent. Out the puff paste all round the lid, and brush the surface with the yolk of an egg ; with a knife cut the vol-au-vent within an inch and a half of the edge ; that is, strike the knife into the paste three-quarters of its thickness, to form the cover. Bake it in a moderate hot oven, and when the crust is well browned take it out. Fill it with whatever you like ; ragout of fowl, fish, veal, or any mortal thing, for the vol-au-vent bears the name of the ragout it is filled with. If the puff paste is made at seven turns, according to the mode a la Soger, it should rise in baking more than four times its height, if put into the oven -an inch thick. Vol-au-vent may be used for fruit as well as meat. Beef-steak Pudding.—Take two pounds of rump-steak, and cut into seasonable pieces; and cut into shreds two or three onions. Paste the pudding-basin with good crust, not too rich nor too poor. Put the meat into the basin, with some pepper and salt, and a dozen oysters, with a little thickening, composed of mushroom ketchup, flour and water, and mustard. Simmer for an hour and a half, and serve in the basin ; or turn it out, if the gravy in the pudding can be retained. Connoisseurs prefer a beef-steak pudding to a beef-steak pie; and mutton, veal and bnm, kidney, sausage, fowl, flsb, and game puddings may be served in a similar way. Yorkshire Pudding (under roast leef or mutton).—Put six table- spoonfuls of flour into a basin, with a little salt, and stir in gradually a pint of milk to make a thin batter, and mind it is not lumpy. When it is well mixed, put in three eggs, well beaten up, and a little more milk. Place it under the meat, so that the dripping may fall on it. Serve as free from fat as possible. Pease Pudding.—Soak the peas for ten or twelve hours; tie them loosely in a cloth, leaving room for them to swell, and simmer for a couple