75' BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES. water vessel, which is above tlie mixer, and communicates with it, and the condenser is set to work until a pressure of 901bs. is produced. Two sacks of flour will take from 23 to 30 gallons of water, according to the quantity, and about ten minutes will be occupied in thoroughly aerating- this quantity of water. According to a well-known rule, the 30 gallons of water will take in as many gallons of gas, and the vacuum iu the mixer is also charged with gas, though this is afterwards returned to the reservoir to be used again. The salt is infused in the shape of hrine, through a separate pipe, at the rate of 41bs. of salt to a sack of flour. The water is turned into the flour, and the process of mixing commences, which is performed by half a dozen iron blades made to revolve rapidly inside the iron vessel on an axis turned by the steam-engine, and in seven or eight minutes the two sacks of flour and the thirty gallons of water are turned into dough, as light and as well kneaded as the most expert journeyman baker, with ap hour’s violent exertion, can effect. The whole process lasts half an hour, and the bread is now ready for the oven. The cost is about three shillings per sack, while the baker, by the hand system, is put down at four shillings. Muffins.—Five eggs, a quart of milk, two ounces of butter, a tea- spoonful of salt, two large table-spoonfuls of yeast, and enough flour to make a stiff batter; warm the milk and butter, cover the mixture, and set it to rise in a warm place. When it has risen sufficiently grease your baking-iron and muffin rings. Bake them a light brown; tear them asunder, and butter. According to “Things Not Generally Known,” in the old times of Henry YIII., in the regulations for his Highness’s household (the kings of those days not being called Majesty), there was a regulation that enacted punishments for the adulteration of food, which, if carried out in our day, according to Dr. Hassall, would involve the imprisonment of a very numerous class. “His Highness’s baker shall not prat alums in the bread, or mix rye, oaten, or bean flour with tlie same, and if detected shall be put in the stocks." It is to he regretted that, as far as the public health is concerned, the same law is not now in force. Crumpets.—To a pound and a half of flour add three pints of milk, two table-spoonfuls of yeast, and two eggs; mix the milk lukewarm, beat it into a batter, and let it stand until it rises into bladders ; then bake on polished iron in the tin rims. Scones,—Flour, two pounds; bi-carbonate of soda, quarter of an ounce ; salt, quarter of an ounce ; sour buttermilk, one pint, more or less. Mix to the consistence of light dough, roll out about half au inch thick, or less, and cut them in any shape you please; bake them on a girdle, turning, to brown on each side. Potato Polls.—Boil two pounds of potatoes, mash them, and work them with an ounce of butter and as much milk as will pass them through a colander ; mix with the potatoes half a pint of yeast, and a quarter of a pint of lukewarm water. Four the whole on two pounds of flour, knead it well, let it stand before the fire to rise, and make it into rolls. Toast and butter them after baking. Oat Oakes.—Soak a pound of oatmeal in a pint of buttermilk, rub a quarter of an ounce of carbonate of soda and a little salt in half a pound of flour, and mix with the oatmeal; roll out any thickness, and bake in a moderate oven. Scotch. Shortbread.—-Rub one pound of butter and twelve ounces of fine sugar into two pounds of flour, with the hand, make it into a stiff paste with four eggs ; roll it out to double the thickness of a penny-piece,