EGGS. IG8 English writers on medical subjects (Andrew Boorde) that those who put in any other ingredient “sophisticated the labour. It is,” he says, “the natural drink of an Englishman; but beer, on the other hand, which is made of malt, hops, and water, is the national drink of the Dutchman, and of late is much used in England, to the great detriment of many Englishmen.” As the climate of England is not congenial to the growth of the vine, this species of liquor is perhaps more universal than in any other country, and it has therefore been denominated vinurn Britannicum. Every prudent housewife should sing or say, in the homely language of Burns, “ We’ll make our mant, and we’ll hrew and drink. We’ll laugh, sing, and rejoice, man.” LXII.-EGGS. My honest friend, will you take eggs for money ?—Old Play. The eggs of birds are nutritious, and easily digestible, and when lightly cooked by boiling, and eaten with a little salt, are admirably adapted as an aliment for the sick and delicate. When boiled hard or fried, they are rendered less digestible, and possess no advantage in this respect over butcher’s meat. A new-laid egg beaten up in a cup of tea, coffee, or chocolate, is an excellent ingredient in the breakfast of a person with a poor appetite, and is very supporting. A glass of wine, beer, or porter similarly treated, along with a biscuit, has been recommended as a light and nutritious luncheon or supper, well suited to the debilitated or dyspeptic. Raw eggs are powerfully anti-scorbutic, and from containing a large quantity of iodine and the phosphates, are superior to cod-liver oil in all the cases in which this last is ordered, occurring in persons with delicate or irritable stomachs. These good qualities are, however, lost, if they are boiled longer than two minutes for a small one, and three minutes for a large one, or are eaten with much salt. The addition of fresh salad oil vastly increases their medicinal virtues. A fresh egg con- tains about the same amount of nourishment as one and a half ounces of fresh meat, and one ounce of wheaten flour, but in a more digestible form.—Cooley's “ Practical Receipts Omelette aux Fines Herbes.—Take three eggs, well beaten, one shalot, parsley, and a little ham or bacon, chopped very fine all together, with a little cayenne and salt to taste. Put two ounces of butter into the frying-pan, and when it boils pour in the batter and fry. It will take about five minutes. Serve with brown gravy, vinegar, and cayenne. Sweet Omelette.—Proceed as above and omit the herbs, add a table- spoonful of milk, a spoonful of sugar, and a little salt. Fry of a light brown and serve with sifted sugar over them. Omelettes.—Their proper cuisine is a task that requires care and attention. It has been said that no one could suit the taste of the Hero of Blenheim and Malplaquet so well as Sarah, first Duchess of Marlborough. As a general rule, when eggs are used on any occasion, the whites and yolks must he separately whisked; but Miss Leslie thinks otherwise, so we transcribe her directions“ Those who do not know the right way to beat eggs complain much of the fatigue, and, therefore, leave off too soon. There will be no fatigue if they are beaten with the proper stroke, and with wooden rods, and In a shallow, flat-bottomed earthen pan. The coldness of the pan retards the lightness