59 PASTRY. Line a shallow dish with paste, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour; turn the pudding out, and strew over it sifted sugar. Lemon puddings, cheesecakes, and dumplings may be made in a similar way. Sussex Dumplings.—Mix a pound of flour, a little salt, and water to a paste, form into small round dumplings, drop them into boiling water, and boil for half an hour. They may be served with roast or boiled meat, and, if with the latter, boiled in the same water. Poor Clergyman’s Pudding.—Put a quarter of a pound of flour* a quarter of a pound of suet, the same of currants, and a quarter of a pound of raisins stoned, a table-spoonful of moist sugar, half a tea-spoonful of t ginger, and a little salt; put the mixture into a puddiug-cloth, and boil for two hours, or a little more. Turn the pudding out of the cloth, and serve with sifted sugar. Marlboro’ Pudding.—Four ounces of butter melted, four ounces of sugar, and four eggs well beaten; mix all well together, line the dish with paste and a layer of preserve, and bake half an hour. PlC2I Broth.—Plum broth or porridge was eaten as soup at Christmas, at St. James’s, during the reign of George III., and a portion of it was sent to the different officers of His Majesty's household. It was composed of veal, beef, sugar, lemon, oranges, sack, hock, sherry, raisins, currants, primes, cochineal, nutmeg, cinnamon, and . cloves—an odd olla podreda. Jacopo Foscari. That melody, which out of tones and tunes CoUects such pasture for the longing sorrow Of the sad mountaineer, when far away From his snow canopy of cliffs and clouds, That he feeds on the sweet but poisonous thought, And dies. You call this weakness! It is strength, I say ; the parent of all honest feeling. He who loves not his country, can love nothing.—The Tico Foscari. Popular lyric poetry should be encouraged. The Scottish patriot, Fletcher of Saltoun, was right when he put forth the aphorism as to the mode of ruling a commu- nity : “ Give me the making of a people’s songs and ballads, and let who will make their Laws.” History informs us that “La Marseillaise” gave an immense impulse to the first French Revolution. Rousseau writes, that the “ Ranz des Vaches,” a Swiss patriotic air, was forbidden to be played to the troops under pain of death; so stirring was its effects, reminding them of the fate of their home; while Englishmen, whether of the old country, or native born, glory in the national songs of Fatherland. It is notorious that the naval poetry of Dibdin did the State more service in the time of £he war, than the bonus for enlistment offered by the country. We are running into a disquisition on a subject almost foreign to our work, so that we had better “ hark back ” to the theme of cookery. XVI.—PASTRY. Shallow. Ho shall answer it: some pigeons, Davy, a couple of short-legged hens, a joint of mutton; any pretty little tiny kickshaws, tell William Cook.—2nd Part Henry IV. Puff Paste.—As a general rule, puff paste requires one pound of butter to every pound of flour, half a salt-spoon of salt, and a little lemon- juice, with about a quarter of a pint of the coolest water. Ure and Soyer give these proportions; although very passable, crust may be made with