TASMANIAN FISH 223 Cockles, whelks, and periwinkles, procurable as easily as the above. One solitary individual has hawked cockles about for many years, but the pewny-winkle man, with his musical “London cry” of “ winkety, wink, wink, wink,” has not reached our hemisphere. Shrimps. Our Hobart Town supplies are obtained from Launceston (the northern side of the island), where they are plentiful. Lobsters—very small. Small lobsters are to be got also at Launceston. Our crayfish prevents our feeling the want of this delicacy. Fresh Water:— Eels—Hb. to 51bs. Very abundant and fine. Sandfish, or fresh-water fiathead—loz. to 3ozs. Very delicate eating. Mullet, or cucumber fish. When pulled out of the water this fish smells exactly like a cut cucumber. It is a herring, affords excellent sport to the angler with a fly, and is cafight in most of the rivers and rivulets in the island. It is highly esteemed and a delicate fish. Above Hew Norfolk, at the Falls, they are caught in large quantities during the season, and at the Bush Hotel, New Norfolk, they are served in perfection. Many parties visit this locality expressly to partake of these fish ; and some day New Norfolk will be as celebrated for this delicacy as Blackwall for its “ whitebait.” The trip up the river, about thirty miles, by steamer is delightful. Trout, or black fish, and silver bellies—2 to 8 inches long. These abound as above ; thirty or forty dozen can be caught in a day’s sport; fried they are good, but dressed like the small sand-eels sold in England, they are delicious. The trout exactly resembles its English namesake in shape and spots, but has no scales. Lobsters abound in the creeks, and even on marshy ground. They are black like the English, very pugnacious, and for two or three months of the year, when cooked, eat like fine prawns. We have above, we believe, given for the first time a complete list of the edible fish of Tasmania, but not as a naturalist would, by giving them a scientific nomenclature. To a naturalist a vast field of study is open ; we could name more than one hundred fish (no doubt, some edible, but too dangerous to experiment on) to be caught in this river, some the most extraordinary in shape and colour. Hardly a week elapses but some new species is exhibited at King’s, our colonial fishmonger, that has been cap- tured in the nets. AY e must, however, name one, the toadfish, simply to caution our readers from eating it. Many years ago, two or three persons in one family at New Town lost their lives, and all were seriously ill Avho partook of this fish ; while only a few months back an elderly female lost her life from eating one of these fish, which she had picked up on the beach in the same locality. The fish is so remarkably ugly, and has a leathery sort of jacket, that we are surprised at any one attempting to cook it. Large quantities of some of the fish we have enumerated are salted and smoked, and exported to the other colonies. The trade, we believe, might be much extended; and as we have elsewhere written, a Chinese