1G1 DRESS AND MANNERS AT A DINNER PARTY. * interessante—Mirabeau’s, for example, who desires a female correspondent, who bad never seen him, and was anxious to form some notion of bis face, to fancy a tiger marked with the smallpox. We rather think the whole philosophy of the matter is to be found in the concluding lines of Spenser’s description:— “ Who rough, and black, and filthy did appear; TJnseemly man to please fair lady’s eye. Yet he of ladies oft was loved dear, When fair faces were hid standen by: Oh, who does know the bent of woman’s fantasie ?” Indissolubly connected with the topic of personal appearance, is the momentous one of dress; and it would be difficult to give a better illus- tration of its importance than an anecdote related of Gerard, the famous French painter. When a very young man he was the bearer of an introduction to Lanjuinais (the distinguished leader of the Girondists), and in the carelessness or confidence of genius he repaired to the (then) Imperial Councillor’s house very shabbily attired. His reception was extremely cold; but in the few remarks that dropped from him in the course of conversation, Lanjuinais discovered such striking proof of talent, good sense, and amiability, that on Girard’s rising to take leave, he rose too, and accompanied his visitor to the ante-chamber. The change was so striking, that Girard could not avoid an expression of surprise. “ My young friend,” said Lanjuinais, anticipating the in- quiry, “ we receive an unknown person according to his dress, we take leave of him according to his merit! ” Napoleon, was deeply impressed with the effects producible by dress, and on all important occasions kept a scrutinising eye on the personal appearance of his suite. A remarkable instance (related in the “ Code Civil ”) occurred on the morning of his interview with Alexander of Russia, on the Niemen. Murat and General Dorsenne arrived at the same moment to take their places in his train; Murat, as usual, all epaulette, aigrette, lace, orders, and em- broidery—Dorsenne in that elegant and simple costume which made him the model of the army. Napoleon saluted Dorsenne with a smile of marked favour; then, turning sharply round upon Murat, he said, “ Go and put on your marshal’s dress; you have the air of Franconi’s.” Goethe, the autocrat of German literature for nearly half a century, entertained similar sendments; and during his dynasty at Weimar, an ordinary stranger’s reception there depended very materially on the dress. —Extract; “ Code of Manners and Etiquette,” Quarterly Review, vol. 59, 1837. A gentlewoman being at table, abroad or at home, must observe to keep her body straight, and lean not by any means with her elbows, nor, by ravenous gesture, discover a voracious appetite; talk not when you have meat in your mouth, and do not smack like a pig, nor venture to eat spoonmeat so hot that the tears stand in your eyes, which, is as unseemly as the gentlewoman who pretended to have as little a stomach as she had a mouth, and therefore would not swallow her peas by spoonfuls, but took them one by one, and cut them in two before she could eat them. It is very uncomely to drink so largo a draught that your breath is almost gone, and are forced to blow strongly to recover yourself; throwing down your liquor as into a funnel is an action fitter for a juggler than a gentlewoman. Thus much for your observation in general; if I am defective as to particulars, your own prudence, discretion, and curious observations will supply.—The Ingenious Gentlewoman’s Delightful Companion, 1653, L