15G BISCUITS. drying of garden fruits in the air, or hy a kiln, is a well-known method of preservation. Apples and pears of a large size should be cut into thin slices. Dried plums, grapes! and currants are a common article of commerce, coming from Greece, Spain, and the Mediterranean.—Ure. Tasmania is an apple-producing country. Her exports are about 130,000 bushels yearly: and we have known the Drench crab keep sound, fresh, and plump in appearance for upwards of two years, without any preparation whatever. American Dried Apples.—The apples (or pears), after being peeled, are cut into eighths, the cores extracted, and then placed in the sun, or in a kiln or oven, until they are quite dry and hard. In this state they may be kept for two or three years. For use, the fruit is cracked in water, and after being drained boiling water is poured on it; after standing for a few minutes it may be used as fresh fruit. The water it has soaked in is an excellent substitute for fresh juice, and should be poured into the pie-dish with the apples. In this way a cheap and constant supply of apples and pears may be had all the year round for pies and puddings almost equal to fresh fruit. Some kind of plums and prunes may be dried and preserved in a similar mode. Wobth Knowing.—One quart of wheat flour weighs lib., avoirdupois; one quart of Indian meal, lib. 2oz.; one quart of butter, lib. loz.; one quart of lump sugar, lib.; one quart of white powdered sugar, lib. loz.; one quart of best brown sugar, lib. 2oz.; ten average eggs, 11d.—Newspaper paragraph. LV! 11.—BISCU ITS. A well-known variety of hard, dry, unleavened bread, made in thin, flat pieces. Those prepared for seamen are composed of flour and water only. When a few carraway seeds are added, they are commonly called Abemethy’s biscuits. Fancy biscuits generally contain sugar and butter, to which almonds, carraways, and other articles are frequently added. The word biscuit is borrowed from the French, and implies twice baked.—Cooley. Captain's Biscuits.—To three pounds and a half of flour add a quarter of a pound of butter and a pint of milk; mix them together till they make a hard, even dough, cut it into pieces, and roll it into paste half an inch thick. Mould them into shape, a,nd bake in a crisp oven. Carraway Biscuits.—To three pounds of flour add two ounces of butter, rubbed into the flour, half a pound of sugar, one ounce of carra- way seeds, half an ounce of ground coriander seed, half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, and a table-spoonful of arrowroot; mix the whole together, and make a stiff paste with warm milk, cut into thin cakes, prick with a fork, and bake. Hard Biscuits.—Warm two ounces of butter in as much milk as will convert a pound of flour into a stiff paste. Beat it smooth, and roll them out thin, cut them into round biscuits, prick them with a fork, and bake. Hard biscuits are remarkably wholesome and digestible. We are told that Marcus Antonius made it a rule to eat a hard biscuit the moment he got up. Crisp Biscuits.—Mix a pound of flour, the yolk of an egg, and some