20 MADE DISHES. I corns, ginger, bouillon, vinegar, and wine ; cover it up and let it stew; wrhen half done, add a roux; when quite done, strain the sauce, and serve with rolled slices untied. TMs is a Polish dish; but the brave Poles bavin" been robbed of tbeir nationality, tberr cuisine bas almost disappeared. Tbe time was when they were tbe most hospitable and convivial of nations. Let us indulge tbe anticipation that, with tbe assistance of Freedom’s battle,” they will recover tbeir kingdom and cookery at tbe same time. \Ve bope tbat astonishing institution, “tbe Secret Government of Warsaw,” will order this dish on tbeir anniversary from slavery. Beef en Miroton.—Slice a few onions, fry them with a piece of ‘butter and a little flour, until they are of a fine brown colour; add a little broth, a glass of white wine, and stew the whole until the onions are well done; then add boiled beef cut in small thin slices, called miroton; stew them until they are well flavoured with onion ; flavour them with mustard or a dash of vinegar, and serve. Hodge Podge,—This is a savoury kind of medley, made as follows:— Cut a pound of mutton, a pound of beef, and half a pound of lean pork into pieces, and put the meat into two quarts of water, and set it on the fire to simmer for an hour. Then add a good-sized carrot, two turnips, two onions cut in pieces, a shalot, and a few lettuces, and again simmer. Add again half a dozen potatoes cut up, and a pint of green peas, pepper and salt, and the squeeze of a lemon ; simmer till done, and serve in a tureen. It is said that this dish was used by tbe delegates of tbe different colonies lately assembled at Melboiu-ne; and from tbe talk tbat occurred during meal-time, it oozed out, first at Sidney, where speculators operated largely, tbat increased duties were to be raised by the respective legislatures on certain articles, although a Tasmanian venal print “tried it on” to fix tbe matter of publicity on the agents of tbat colony. The name of the dish bas no reference to tbe collective wisdom of tbe state papers agreed on by tbe conference. It seemetb to me tbat this word (hotchpot) is in English a pudding, for in this pudding is not commonly put one thing alone, but one thing with other things together. —Littleton, sect. 267. Hutspot, or hotspot, is an old Saxon word, and signifletb so much as Littleton here speaks.—Coke upon Littleton, 477. Loin of Mutton Stuffed.—Take the skin off a loin of mutton with the flap on ; bone it neatly ; fill the inside of the loin, where the bones were removed, with veal stuffing; roll it up tight, skewer the flap, and bind it together ; put the outside skin over it till nearly roasted, and then remove it that the mutton may brown. Serve with brown gravy, with a little port wine in it. A leg may be dressed in a similar way, or stuffed with sage and onions, or dressed as a braise. Spanish Gaspacho.—Take two onions, some tomatoes, a handful of green pimento, a cucumber, a clove of garlic, parsley, and chervil; cut the whole into small pieces, and put them into a salad bowl. Add as much crumbed bread as will form double the quantity which the dish already contains ; season with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, like a salad, and complete the (jaspacho with a pint of water to make the bouillon. Gaspacho is eaten with a spoon; it is a kind of raw soup, and is a favouiite dish with the Andalusians.