THE LAST DINNER. 284 Tlie bard of Ceos says “ 'Tis not enough to mix your wine with taste, Unless sweet converse seasons the repast; And Bacchus’ gifts well such regard deserve. That we should e’en the stone3 of grapes preserve.” Eebmented Liqtjoes.—Volumes have been written to prove that spirit in every form, is not only unnecessary to those that are in health, but that it has been the prolific source of the most painful and fatal diseases to which man is subject; in short, that Epimetheus himself did not, by opening the box of Pandora, commit a greater act of hostility against our nature, than the discoverer of fermented liquors. Every apart- ment, it is said, devoted to the circulation of the glass, may be regarded as a temple set apart for the performance of human sacrifice; and that they ought to be fitted up like tbe ancient temples of Egypt, in a manner to show the real atrocity of the superstition that is carried on within their walls. This is mere rant and nonsense; a striking speci- men of the fallacy of reasoning against the tis« of a custom from its abuse. There exists no evidence to prove that a temperate use of good wine, when taken at seasonable hours, has ever proved injurious to healthy adults. In youth, and still more in infancy, the stimulus it imparts to the stomach is undoubtedly*injuriou9; but there are excep- tions even to this general rule. The occasional use of diluted wine has improved the health of a child, by imparting vigour to a torpid stomach; we ought, however, to consider it rather as a medicine than a luxury,—Paris on Did. CXIV.-THE LAST DINNER. “ The small and great are there; and the servant is free from his master.”— Job iii. 19. We have extracted from Professor Newman’s “ System of Rhetoric ” an admired example of descriptive writing, which we have given at the end of this work, as it is a meal that we ought often to be reminded we must all, sooner or later, partake of:— “The First and Last Dinner.—Twelve friends, much about the same age, and fixed by their pursuits, their family connections, and other local interests, as permanent inhabitants of the metropolis, agreed one day,, when they were drinking wine at the Star and Garter, at Richmond, to- institute an annual dinner among themselves, under the following regula- tions :—That they should dine alternately at each other’s houses on the first and last day of the year ; and the first bottle of wine uncorked at the first dinner should be re-corked and put away, to be drunk by him who should be the last of their number; that they should never admit a new member ; that, w'hen one died, eleven should meet, and when another died, ten should meet, and so on ; and when only one remained, he should, on these two days, dine by himself, and sit the usual hours at his solitary table; but the first time he had so dined—lest it should be the only one—he should then uncork the first bottle, and, in the first glass, drink to the memory of all who were gone. “Some thirty years had now glided away, and only ten remained; but the stealing hand of time had written sundry changes in most legible characters. Raven locks had become grizzled ; two or three beads had not as many locks as may be reckoned in a walk of half a mile along the Regent’s Canal; one v’as actually covered with a brown wig; the crows feet were visible in the corner of the eye; good old port and warm