PUDDINGS AND PIES. 00 previously place liimself upon it.” From this, as well as from the schemes of plunder, the Duke (Wellington) alone had sufficient influence to dissuade the fiery Prussian. He accomplished his purpose by a combination of argument and hospitality, of which the evidence is as curious as it is characteristic. One letter written on 9th July, 1815. pointed out that to destroy public monuments would be subversion of the capitulation. In another short note, he (the Duke) invites Blucher to dine with him at Very’s, and announces the speedy arrival of the Emperor of Russia and King of Prussia. Blucher could not take hold against the good cheer, and the bridge of Jena and the pillar of Austerlitz were both saved.—Gleig’s “Life of the Luke of Wellington.” Stewed Pigeons.—Pigeons are very excellent stewed in brown sauce, with whole potato-onions, which are milder and of finer flavour than the common onion. Cakving.—There are certain choice cuts or delicacies, with which a good carver is acquainted: among them are the sounds of cod-fish; the thin or fat of salmon; the thick and fins of turbot, a portion of the liver and roe to each person; the fat of venison, lamb, and veal kidney; the long cuts and gravy from “the Alderman’s walk” of a haunch of venison or mutton; the Pope’s eye in a leg of mutton; the ribs and neck of a pig; the breast and wings of a fowl; back pieces, ears, and brain of a hare; the breast and thighs (without the drura-sticlcs) of turkey and goose ; the legs and breast of a duck; the wings, breast, and back of game.—Hints for the Table. XV.—PUDDINGS AND PIES. But his neat cookery! He cut our roots in characters; And sauc’d our broths, as Juno had been sick. And he her dieter. Huiderus in “ CynibeUne.”' Plum Pudding.— Christmas comes but once a year, So let it come cheerily; Every face in smiles appear, Not an hour pass wearily. We give Dr. Kitchener's way of making this national Christmas pudding, for it is an undoubted fact that his mode was the means of no less than eighteen different recipes, with only a little more boil, which is erring on the right side:—Beef suet, chopped, six ounces; Malaga raisins, stoned, six ounces; currants, washed and picked, eight ounces: bread crumbs, three ounces; flour, three ounces; eggs, three ounces; sixth of a nutmeg, small blade of mace, and same quantity of cinnamon, pounded fine; half a tea-spoon of salt; sugar four ounces; candied lemon, one ounce, and the same of citron, with half a pint of milk. Beat the eggs and spice together, mix the milk with them by degrees, then tin.’ rest of the ingredients. Dip a clean linen cloth into boiling water, and put it in a hair sieve ; flour it a little, and pour in the mixture, tie it up close, put it into a saucepan containing six quarts of boiling water. Keep a kettle of boiling water alongside of it to fill up your pot as it wastes. Be sure to keep it boiling six hours, at least. The noble poet gave the requisite ingredients on one occasion to a foreign cook, and forgot to tell him of the cloth, so that the pudding appeared in a liquid state. This is akiu to a story told on the early use of teas. A person from the East gave out a quarter of a pound of tea, and desired his servant to send up a cup. The leaves came up served, and the water that boiled them was thrown away. In England the plum pudding is frequently brought in enveloped in flames from any alcoholic spirit, and its advent on the table is hailed with joyous glee by children, and sometimes by those of