Jj SAUCES. ox broth, a table-spoonful of vinegar, the same quantity of ketchup, or port wine, and a tea-spoonful of mustard. Let it simmer till thick, and then add the parsley leaves and pickles. Poor Man’s Sauce.—Pick a handful of parsley leaves from the stalks, mince them very fine, strew over them a little salt; shred fine half a dozen young green onions, add them to the parsley, and put them into a sauceboat, with three table-spoonfuls of oil and five of vinegar ; add some black ground pepper and salt; stir together, and serve. Pickles of any kind may be added,'cut small, or grated horseradish. Dr. Kitchener says, that the rich sometimes order the peasants’ fare, as a variety. According' to Dryden—- “ The rich, tired with continual feasts, For change, become the next poor tenant’s guests; Drink hearty draughts of ale from plain brown bowls. And snatch the homely rasher from the coals.” Sauce for Eoast Wild Ducks.—One salt-spoonful of salt, one ditto of cayenne, one dessert-spoonful of lemon-juice, one ditto of ketchup, two ditto of Harvey, three ditto of port wine, and the same of claret. To be mixed, warmed, and poured over, before the dish comes on the table. Keep away all fat from the bird when done. Steak Sauce.—Pound an ounce of black pepper, half an ounce of allspice, an ounce of salt, and an ounce of grated horseradish and shalots. Put these articles to a pint of mushroom ketchup, and let them infuse for a month. Bechamel Sauce.—The name of the maitre cVhotel of Louis XIY. was Bechamel, and this sauce is named after him, for he it was who first com- pounded it. Put into a saucepan a piece of butter, onions, and a carrot shred, some parsley and mushrooms; set it on the fire; put in three spoon- fuls of flour, half a pint of cream, salt, white pepper, and nutmeg. Keep it stirred until it boils. Let it simmer for half an hour, then strain, and it is fit for use. When ready to serve add a small piece of fresh butter. Sauce a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Take a piece of butter, a little flour, parsley and chives chopped small; put all into a saucepan, with half a .glass of water, a little salt and pepper. Just before serving, set on the tire ; keep turning it till all the ingredients are well incorporated ; then add the juice of a lemon, and serve. Sauce h la Rimolade.—Put into a sauceboat a slialot, chervil, chives, a head of garlic, all chopped very fine; salt and pepper; beat it up with mustard, oil, and vinegar. Dr. Kitchener’s Sauce Superlative.—Claret and port wine, a pint each; the same of mushroom ketchup; half a pint of walnut liquor; pounded anchovies, four ounces; fresh lemon-peel finely pared, one ounce; sliced shalots, an ounce; scraped horseradish, an ounce ; allspice and black pepper, half an ounce; cayenne, one drachm; curry-powder, three drachms; celery seed, bruised, one draclnn. Put into a wide-mouthed bottle, and shake every day for a fortnight.