2G8 DRIXIfS. followers of Moses and the prophets are not troubled with these latter ailments, is solely owing to the quantity of lemon acid which they take with their food. Apicius. I am afraid yon beat ns in wines, not to mention your cider, perry, and beer, of all which I have heard great fame from some English with whom I have talked; and their report has been confirmed by the testimony of their neighbours who have travelled in England. Wonderful things have been also said to me of a liquor called Punch.—Dialogues of the Dead. Eegent’s Punch.—This favourite beverage of the late King George TV. is made from three bottles of champagne, one bottle of hock, one bottle of curaqoa, a quart of brandy, a pint of rum, two bottles of Madeira, two bottles of seltzer-water, four pounds of bloom raisins, stoned, Seville oranges, lemons, white sugar-candy, and, instead of water, .green tea. The whole to be iced in summer and warmed in winter. Oxford Punch (by a Christchurch man).—Rub the rind of three fresh lemons with loaf sugar, so as to extract the oil; peel finely two lemons more, and two Seville oranges. Use the juice of ten lemons and four Seville oranges; add six glasses of calf’s foot jelly ; put it into a large jug and stir the whole. Pour in four quarts of boiling water, and set the jug on the hob for twenty minutes. Strain the liquor into a large bowl, pour in a bottle of capillaire, half a pint of sherry, a pint of brandy, a pint of old rum, and a quart of orange shrub. Stir it well as you pour in the spirits. Jelly Posset.—Take eight eggs, leave out the whites of four, and beat the remainder well together in a basin; then add half a pint of white wine, a little strong ale, and sugar; put it into a saucepan, and set it over a slow fire, stirring it all the time. Boil a pint of milk with a little nutmeg and cinnamon, just enough to flavour it, and when the eggs and wine are hot, add the boiling milk to it. Remove it from the fire, pour into a punch-bowl, and serve. Lemon, orange, and wine possets are made in a similar way. Quiclc. Go; and we’ll have a posset for’t soon as night, in faith, at the latter end of a sea-coal fire.—Merry Wives of Windsor. Buttered Toddy.—Mix a glass of rum-grog pretty strong, and hot, sweeten to taste with honey, flavour with nutmeg and lemon-juice, add a piece of fresh butter about the size of half a walnut. Simple toddy is the name of spirits and water in the East Indies. Toddy, the term for a mixture of spirits and water, appears to be taken from the Indian word tari or tadi, pronounced toddy by Europeans, the sap or wine of a palm. Cranford. Ale Posset.—Boil a pint of new milk, with a slice of toasted bread sweeten a quart of ale, and pour it into a basin with nutmeg and ginger- Add the boiling milk to it, and when the head rises, serve. Oxford Eight Gap.—Take half a tumbler of tea, made as usual with sugar and milk; add a slice of lemon, a wine-glass of new milk, and the same of rum or brandy. Beat up a new-laid egg, and add to the mixture.