BOILING. 13 good melted butter put over it, aud it is indispensably necessary that it should be well browned, and accompanied with a little bacon or ham, either as a garnish or separate dish. A little lemon is an improvement. Eoast Leg of Mutton, with Garlic.—Being at Bordeaux, we one day gave a dinner, at the hotel at which we lodged, to a few English friends whom we had met there. Anxious to taste, and let our guests taste, a gigot a Vail (a leg of mutton and garlic), a dish for which the Bordelais cooks are celebrated, we ordered one as part of the repast. When the roast was placed on the table at the second course, it appeared to us all to be a gigot aux haricots (a leg of mutton and kidney beans) ; but the meat was delicious, and the beans certainly superior to, and bearing a different flavour from, any haricots we had ever tasted before. Vexed, however, at what we considered an inattention to our orders, we sum- moned the landlord, and begged to know why, when we had ordered a gigot a Vail, he had presumed to send up a gigot aux haricots? “I have shown no inattention,” he replied, “ and made no mistake. The dish of which you have just eaten, and which your guests seemed to have liked, was a gigot a Vail, and what you have mistaken for beans is garlic.” <! Is it possible! ” we exclaimed. Again we tasted the garlic ; its rankness was gone ; but there was in it a delicious flavour for which we could not account. After apologising to our host, “ If the question be not indiscreet, and the matter no secret, how can you impart this delicious flavour to garlic? ” we asked. “There is no secret in the case,” he replied ; “ the process is very simple. The garlic is thrown into five boiling waters, with a little salt, and boiled five minutes in each. It is then drained, and put into the dripping-pan under the roasting mutton.” Since our return to England we have often had this dish dressed, and no guest of ours, until he was told of it, ever discovered that he had been feasting on garlic.—Correspondent ofu Domestic Economy.” Vegetables.—We presume it is unnecessary to expatiate on such, vegetable luxuries as broccoli, green peas, and asparagus, but it may be a useful piece of information to state that parsnips are excellent fried, and that beet-root, boiled well, sliced, and sent up hot. forms the best possible accompaniment to roast meat.—Quarterly Review. IV-BOILING: The operation of dressing food hi water in a state of ebullition, or nearly approximating to it. The practice of cooking animal food by boiling, although exceedingly simple, and often most convenient, is neither judicious nor economical when the broth or liquor in which it is dressed is to be rejected as waste ; as in this way the most nutritious portion of the flesh of animals, consisting of soluble saline and other matter required for the formation of bone and the nutrition of the muscular fibres, &c., is to a great extent lost. This particularly applies to small pieces so dressed, and to those presenting a large surface to the action of the water in proportion to their weight. Large pieces of meat suffer less in proportion than small ones, for the same reason; but even •with them the outside should be rejected, as it is both insipid and innutritious compared with the interior portion. To reduce the solvent and deteriorating action of the water to the