82 GAME. to be used, wipe it extremely clean from it and the wine. Cut tlie meat into pieces two inches square, and put them into a stewpan with two gills of port wine, one of claret, a few shalots, some pepper, salt, mace, and allspice, and enough stock to cover it; let it simmer until three parts done. Take out the meat you intend for the pasty, and put into a deep dish with a part of the liquor, then cover the pasty an inch thick with paste, and bake for two hours, and before it is sent to table pour in a sauce made from the liquor the venison was stewed in, free from fat; add some pepper, salt, the juice of half a lemon, and half a gill of port wine or claret, and a little thickening. “ Cervus,” in a late number of tlie Field, asks for a good recipe for venison pasty. We recommend the above. Kangaroo Pasty, made in a similar way, is even more palatable. To Cook Kangaroo.—Take the hind-quarters, above the lddney. Cut off the tail, also the legs, at the first joint from the back; having discarded the feet, cut up the remainder of the legs with the tail to stew for gravy, of which you will require, when done, a pint or more; add to the gravy meat a small onion sliced, a few peppercorns, and one or twa bay leaves. Let it stew till all goodness is out of the meat; then strain. Make a good stuffing, as for turkey, with a large cupful of grated bread, half as much shred suet, some’ thyme, parsley, and a small portion of onion, chopped very fine; and either half a pound of sausage-meat, or a little finely-shred ham or bacon; season with pepper and salt, and mix. well with one or two eggs. Be liberal in the quantity of the stuffing. Put into the aperture of the body as much as it will hold, and make the rest into balls about the size of pullets’ eggs. You may lard the kangaroo, but it is very good without, if covered with a caul of sweet mutton suet while baking. It requires long cooking. You may very safely let it stay in the oven a full half hour after you think it done, to have it thoroughly cooked. Serve with some of the gravy—having added to it some mush- room ketchup, and a little flour and butter. Have currant jelly to eat with it; some persons like ham or bacon instead. Hashed with the remaining gravy, the kangaroo is often nicer than it was the first day. Kangaroo Steamer.—Cut the meat off the hind-quarters, take away the skin, and mince, pound, or' grind the meat in a sausage mill, not set finely; set it aside until next day, and prepare the gravy meanwhile; for this you can use the bones, skin, tail, or part of the fore-quarter, well bruised and hacked up, and slowly simmered with three pints of water and a small onion till reduced to little more than one pint. Do this the day before you want to serve the steamer, and strain off the gravy to be cold. Next day take a pound (or more, if liked) of nice fat bacon, free from rust, cut it into dice, add it to the minced meat, and stir all well into the cold gravy (which should be a jelly, if good); let the whole warm gradually, and simmer slowly until cooked. Season to your palate, being careful not to add much salt, if any, as the bacon salts it. A spoonful or two of mushroom ketchup and a dredge of flour will improve