PASTRY. GO half the quantity of butter. The latter cuisinier tells us to put the flour on the paste-board, make a hole in the centre, in which put the yolk of an egg, the lemon-juice, and salt; mix the whole with cold water (in summer tbe water must be either iced or cooled) into a flexible paste with the right hand, and handle it as little as possible; then squeeze all the buttermilk from the butter, wring it through a cloth, and roll out the paste ; place the butter on this, and fold the edges of the paste over, so as to hide it; roll it out again to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, fold over one-third, over which again pass the rolling-pin; then fold over the other third, thus forming a square ; place it with the ends, top, and bottom before you, and repeat the rolls and turns twice again, as before. Flour a baking-sheet, put the paste on this, and let it remain in a cool place for half an hour ; then roll twice more, turning it as before ; place it again in a cool place for a quarter of an hour, give two more rolls, making seven in all, and it is ready for use. Tho richer the pastry is made, the more lamiuce of butter it contains, the more unwholesome. Good Short Crust.—Half a pound of butter, the yolks of two eggs, two ounces of sugar, and about a quarter of a pint of milk; rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar, and mix the whole as lightly as possible to a smooth paste with yolks of eggs well beaten and the milk. Butter Crust, for Boiled Puddings.—Allow about six ounces of butter or clarified dripping to each pound of flour, or half of each quantity; work the flour to a paste with half a pint of water, roll out the crust rather thin, place the butter over it in small pieces, dredge over it some flour, and fold the paste over ; repeat the rolling, and the crust is ready for use. Suet Crust, for Pies or Puddings.—The quantity in proportion will be six ounces of beef suet to every pound of flour, with half a pint of water. Chop the suet fine, and rub it well into the flour, work the whole to a paste with the water, roll it out, and it is ready for use. It is a great improvement, before using the suet, if it were pounded with a small quantity of dripping, or even oil used. This suet crust is much more digestible, and, of course, more wholesome, than the flaky crust made from butter. Tide’s Eoyal Paste, au Olioux.—Take a stewpan large enough to hold four quarts of water, pour half a pint of water in it, with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, two ounces of sugar, a little salt, and the peel of a lemon ; let them boil until the whole is properly melted. Then take some very dry flour and pass through a sieve. Take the lemon-peel out with a ladle, and throw a handful of flour into the preparation while boil- ing ; take care, however, not to put more flour than the liquor can soak up. Stir with a wooden spoon until the paste can be easily detached from the stewpan, and then take it off the lire. Now break an egg into this paste, and mix it well; then break a second, which also mix. Do not put more eggs than the paste can absorb, but you must be careful not to-