BROTHS. 7 simmer, with a cupful of pearl barley; slum it carefully, and, when it has simmered an hour, add two carrots, two turnips, an onion cut into slices, and some parsley. Season with salt and pepper, and, when the head is sufficiently tender, serve. The head can be put on a separate dish, and parsley and butter poured over it, and garnished with parsley leaves or boiled beet. Beef Broth.—Take part of a leg of beef, crack the bone in two or three places, and put it into half a gallon of water, let it simmer. Skim well, add a few blades of mace, a bunch of parsley, and a crust of bread. Let it simmer for two hours, and serve with toasted bread. Peterborough Soup.—Mr. Baron Bramwell lately tried tlie case of Wilkins v. Smith, in the Court of Exchequer, -which -was an action for libel, brought by the proprietor of the refreshment rooms at the Peterborough railway station against the Daily Telegraph newspaper. A special reporter from the paper accompanied the Prince of Wales on his journey to the North, and the train stopped at Peterborough station for refresh- ments. On the publication of the report of the journey the following day, the reporter said he trusted His Royal Highness had not' tasted the “ detestable juice of horse- beans, which is retailed to Her Majesty’s lieges at that station at a shilling a plate.” The defendant declined to apologise, and the jury gave a verdict. for £25 damages—Home News. Scotch Barley Broth,—Put a neck of mutton on the fire in a saucepan, with half a gallon of water, and three table-spoonfuls of Scotch barley, and let it simmer. After it has been on some time, add some turnips, and onions cut into dice. Skim well, and allow it to simmer about a couple of hours. Veal Broth.—Put part of a knuckle of veal on the fire, and follow the same mode as the above. The meat can be used served up in a separate dish, with parsley and butter. Mutton Broth.—Take two pounds of mutton, any part; put it into a stewpan, with sufficient cold water, a tea-spoonful of salt, a small quantity of pepper, a table-spoonful of the best grits, and an onion; let it simmer, and skim it often. Put into it three turnips and au onion, let it simmer for a couple of hours. It can be thickened with oatmeal, rice, or Scotch barley. Dr. Kitchener’s Barley Broth (Scotch).—Wash three-quarters of a pound of Scotch barley in a little cold water ; put it into a soup-pot, or digester, with a shin or leg of beef of about eight pounds’ weight, or the same weight of mu'ton, sawn in pieces; cover it well with cold water ; set it on the fire ; when it boils, skim it, and put in two onions ; let it simmer for about a couple of hours ; put in two heads of celery, and a large turnip cut into pieces. Let it simmer a short time longer, and take out the meat to serve separate with the broth. When the meat is taken out, season with pepper and salt, and a glass of port wine may be added or not. The meat must be done tender, not to rags; may be served with caper sauce or minced gherkins or walnuts. Tbo doctor calculated that the above dish of soup and meat would dine eight per- sons with an excellent savoury meat, at a cost of fivepencc per head, exclusive of bread and vegetables.