VEGETABLES. 114 liquid. The articles to be preserved ought to be gathered iu the proper season, that they may be neither too green and watery, nor too dry; they should also be quite fresh. In wet seasons vegetables require a quarter of an hour’s less boiling in the bain marie than in dry seasons. Mr. Appert’s book, 12mo, 1812, is a most useful family work, but wc believe out of print. Drinking at Meals.—It is injurious to drink mucb at meals. Those who take a large quantity of liquids during dinner generally eat more than those who drink less. The sensation of thirst depends upon the quantity of aqueous fluid circulating in the blood. It has been found by physiologists that the most severe thirst of animals is appeased by injecting watery fluids into the blood. A moderate quantity of liquid should be taken at dinner ; too large a portion acts injuriously by diluting the gastric fluid. Persons whose diet is more animal than vegetable require more liquid during their meals. Drinking before a meal is pernicious, whilst by drinking during a meal the digestive process is promoted. Those also who eat fast require more drink than do others j for, as Dr. Philips says, the food is swallowed without a due admixture of saliva, and forms a dry mass in the stomach.—IVinsloid’s “Health of Body and Mind.” XXXVI-VEGETABLES. One of the greatest luxuries, to my mind, in dining is to be able to command plenty of good vegetables. Excellent potatoes, smoking hot, would alone stamp merit on any dinner; but they are as rare on state occasions so served, as if they were the cost of pearls.—Walker. Potatoes.—If this vegetable is very mealy it must be steamed. There is no other mode of cooking the best Tasmanian black potatoes. In steaming them, all that the cook has to do is to peel them before they are put into the steamer, and when done remove the steamer from off the saucepan. If they are boiled, they are placed in the water with a little salt, and allowed to simmer until they are done, which is known by forking them. When boiled, they may be fried again whole, or cut up with greens. Potatoes are often used mashed and browned, with a small quantity of butter or milk; but a vegetarian does not generally like pappy potatoes. A favourite plat of ours is this vegetable cut green, and fried in fat until done, of about an eighth of an inch in thickness. Roast potatoes under meat is another mode, and baked potatoes with meat are equally good. The mealy sort baked in the ashes, and sent to table with their jackets on, is a common mode of cooking them. Potato scones are a very nice way of dressing them : mash the potatoes with a little milk, keeping them as dry as you can ; add an egg well beaten, a sprinkling of flour, and fry them of a light brown. Potato pie is made by putting a few chops or slices of mutton at the bottom of a pie-dish, on the meat a little gravy or thickening, and fill up the dish with potatoes sliced green, with salt, and bake. This is a simple and very good dish indeed, assuming that the vegetables are of the right sort. If potatoes are watery, in boiling them put a dessert-spoonful of lime in the water, and that will make them mealy. New potatoeg are well cleaned with a flannel rubber, and boiled until tender. Keeping Potatoes.—The following mode of preserving potatoes for ten months