203 CONVIVIAL MAXIMS, ETC. But hark! the chiming clocks to dinner call 5 A hundred footsteps scrape the marble hall. The rich buffet well-coloured serpents grace. And gaping Tritons spew to wash your face. Is this a dinner ? This a genial room ? No, ’tis a temple, and a hecatomb. A solemn sacrifice, performed in state. You drink by measure, and to minutes eat. So quick retires each flying course, you’d swear Sancho’s dread doctor and bis wand was there. Between each act the trembling salvers rmg. Prom soup to sweet wine, and God bless the King. In plenty starving, tantalised in state. And complacently help’d to all I hate. Treated, caress’d, and tired, I take my leave. Sick of bis civil pride from mom to eve. I curse such lavish cost and little skill. And swear no day was ever pass'd so ill.—Pope’s Moral Essays, LXXXII.—CONVIVIAL MAXIMS FROM THE “PHYSIOLOGY OF TASTE.” • According to the laws of conviviality, a certificate from a sheriff’s officer, a doctor, or an undertaker, are the only pleas admissible for absence. The duties which invitation impose do not fall on the persons invited, but, like all other social duties, are reciprocal. As he who has accepted an invitation cannot disengage himself from it, the master of the feast cannot put off the entertainment on any pretence whatever. Urgent business, sickness, not even death itself can dispense with the obligation which he is under of giving the entertainment, for which he has sent out invitations, which have been accepted; for in the extreme cases of compulsory absence or death, his place may bo filled by his friend or executor.—Le Manuel das Amphitryons. Article 1. Let not the number of the guests exceed .twelve, that the conversation may be constantly general. We differ with M. Brillat Savarin, and think Disraeli’s number of nine far preferable, and accord with Kitchener in objecting to thirteen, when there is only dinner for twelve. Walker’s limit is eight. 2. Let them be so selected that their occupations shall be varied, their tastes analogous, and with such points of contact that there shall be no necessity for the odious formality of presentations. 3. Let the eating-room be luxuriously lighted, the cloth remarkably clean, and the atmosphere at the temperature of from 1G to 18 of lleaumur. 4. Let the men be spirituals without pretension, the women pleasant without too much coquetry. 5. Let the dishes be exceedingly choice, but limited in number, and the wines of the iirst quality, each in its degree. G. Let the order of progression be for the first (the dishes) from the most substantial to the lightest, and for the second (the wines) from the simplest to the most perfumed. 7. Let the act of consumption be deliberate, the dinner being the last