CONDIMENTS. 40 Fennel is used particularly with fish. It is a pretty garnish. Celery.—This vegetable is eaten plain, and cooked as sauce for dif- ferent joints; it is also made to flavour soups and made dishes. Borage is not much used in cookery, as its flavour is a little bitter, Horseradish is used sliced or grated, especially with roast beef and "beef-steaks; but its agreeable pungent flavour soon evaporates. In Sweden the Chinese horseradish is cultivated, and oil obtained fron. it. Horseradish is not very dissimilar from the poisonous monkshood, or aconite, which has been the cause of many deaths. The outer resem- blance of the roots is slight, but when the two roots are scraped, morks- hood is succulent, and soon turns pink, while horseradish retuns its colour. The taste of monkshood is bitter, while that of horse- radish is pungent. The cook should at once be taught the difference between the two roots. Chervil.—The flavour of chervil is pleasant, and it may be employed in made dishes to advantage, as well as in soups and salads. Capers.—This is the mere bud of a shrub, grown in the north oi Europe, salted and pickled. It is an excellent addition to fish and boiled meats. Nasturtiums.—These seeds are used as capers occasionally, and they are pickled and used in salads. Barberries are natives of England; they have a pleasant acid flavour, and make good pickles or preserves. Gherkins are pickled, and also used as an addition to salads and made dishes. Beet-root.—This root makes most excellent winter salad when dressed with pepper, oil, and vinegar, and they are elegant garnish for many dishes. Mushrooms.—Having already entered into the detail of making ketchup, and cooking this edible fungi, we have little more to say. There are several species of agaraci so much'resembling the mushroom proper, that the cook must be wary, or fatal results may happen from the use of the poisonous varieties. Morils : a species of mushroom, of an agreeable flavour, that might be more often used witli different dishes. Truffles are a fungus, of a round oblong form, of the cryptogamia, or mushroom tribe, found in the earth, about a foot below the surface, by trained dogs and pigs; and the best are of a blackish brown colour. They are nourishing and stimulant to the system. The finest are found in Perigord in France, and they are obtained in Carolina in America, and in some parts of England. The French dish of dinde aux truffes (turkey