WINES. 172 of these wines are doctored for the English market by adulteration. To such an extent is this trade carried, that, within a given time, the Channel Islands received 210 pipes from Oporto, and managed to export to London 2,072 pipes; so that the Jersey folks made one pipe of real port into ten spurious ones. Dr. Gorman, in his evidence before the select committee of the House of Commons, stated— Tliat no natural slierry came to this country; no wine house will send it. The article you get is a mixed article. If they gave you the natural produce of Xeres it would not suit you; in all probability you would say it was an inferior wine. Our taste is artificial, because we are not a wine-drinking people. Brande informs us that sherry, of a due age, and in good condition, is a fine, perfect, and wholesome wine—free from excess of acid, and possess- ing a dry, aromatic flavour and fragrancy ; but, as procured in the ordi- nary market, it is of fluctuating and anomalous quality, often destitute of all aroma, and tasting of little else than alcohol and water. The clarets of France, Chateau Margaus, Haut Buon, Latour, Larore, and Lafitte—these are the Medoc wines—are all of high repute; while the inferior sorts—M‘Culloch says in his “ Dictionary ”—are shipped at Bor- deaux as low as £2 per hogshead. Champagne was pronounced by the faculty of Paris, in 1778, to be the finest of all wines. The question whether the wines of Champagne or Burgundy were entitled to the pre- ference, was agitated during the reign of Louis XIV. with extraordinary keenness. The Hector of the University of Beauvais published a classical ode, in which champagne was eulogised, aud its superiority vindicated, with a spirit, vivacity, and delicacy worthy of the theme. The citizens of Bheims were not ungrateful to M. Coffin, but they liberally rewarded him with an appropriate and munificent donation of the wine he had so happily panegyrised. M. Greneau wrote an ode in praise of Burgundy ; but, unlike its subject, it was flat and insipid, and failed to procure any recompense to its author. There is generally a good supply of claret in bond in the docks in London. Its price varies from £12 for the inferior, to £50 for the superior growth. What are called shipping clarets may be bought from £5 to £10 per hogshead. The finest case clarets sell in bond at about 50s. per dozen ; but well-flavoured wine may be bought in bond at 15s. or 16s. per dozen. When the Russian army of invasion passed through Champagne, they took away with them 600,000 bottles; but M. Moet considered himself a gainer by the loss, as his orders from Russia have more than doubled every year since. The wine sovereigns at Epernay used to be M. Moet and Madame Cliquot. The former died in 1841, aged eighty years. The King of Prussia was so fond of the lady’s champagne, that he received, in consequence, the soubriquet of King Cliquot. M. Moet employed 200 workpeople, and kept a stock of three millions of bottles of wine. Every stranger visiting the establishment is invariably presented with a bottle of the best wine as a present. Pro- fessor Brande states that champagne should never be drank until its active effervescence is over, for its body and flavour is concealed by the •carbonic acid. The poet Crabbe has written— Champagne the courtier drinks, the spleen to chase; The colonel, Burgundy; and port, his grace.