ENGLISH AND AUSTRALIAN COOKERY. “ Better is a Dinner of Herbs where Love is, than a Stalled Os and Hatred THEREWITH.”—PrOV. XV. 17. I.-SOUPS. " C’est la soupe qui fait le soldat.”—French Axiom. Shin of Beef Soup.—Take a shin of beef, of about six pounds; chop the bone in three pieces; put it into a soup-kettle to simmer, and cover it well with cold water. After about an hour, add two carrots, two turnips, a head of celery, a little allspice, cloves, savory, thyme, and parsley, and let it continue simmering for two or three hours ; add pepper and salt. Some persons strain the soup, and throw away the meat; but we prefer the vegetables and soup served up thick; and the boulli and gristle in a separate dish, with a small quantity of parsley and butter over it. Oxtail Soup.—Made in a similar way, and pieces of the tail, in joints, served up with the soup; and the vegetables and herbs taken out of the soup, before being served. The Soup-kettle.—Tlie first thing that struck me, on my arrival, as oclcl and singular in the streets of Constantinople, was an extraordinary, greasy-looking fellow, dressed in a leathern jacket, covered over with ornaments of tin. He was followed by two men, also fantasticaUy dressed, supporting a pole on their shoulders, from which hung a large copper kettle. The;, walked through the main streets with an air of great authority, and all the people hastily got out of the way. This, I found on inquiry, was the soup-kettle of a corps of janissaries, and always held in high respect; indeed, so dis- tinguishing a characteristic of this body is their soup, that their colonel is called Tclwrbadge, or distributor of soup. Their kettle, therefore, is, in fact, their standard; :md. whenever that is brought forward, it is the signal of some desperate enterprise. Their kettles were now solemnly displayed in the Etmeidan, inverted in the middle of the area; and in a short time twenty thousand men rallied round them.—Walsh’s “ Con- stantinople.” Pot au Feu, or Stock.—The best pieces of beef to make good stock of are the shin, the leg bone, and the neck. Put the meat, cut in pieces, in. a digester, with a sufficient quantity of water. When the meat has been skimmed sufficiently, add carrots, parsnips, turnips, leeks, celery, and onion, B