220 VICTORIAN FISH. it had afforded Tasmania in its acclimatisation efforts, and expressed a hope that before many years the salmon would prove an attraction in the sparkling' waters of Tasmania. —Melbourne Argus. These societies work a vast deal of good, no doubt, but some of their proclivities are rather startling. At the meeting from which the above extract was taken, the chairman gave it as liis opinion, that the boa constrictor was an elegant and interesting drawing-room pet; while he dissented from his predecessor, Sir Henry Barkly’s regard for monkeys. Perhaps the former Governor of Victoria wanted the monkey introduced as food, for Sir Robert Schomburghlc enumerates :—“The tapir, or maisuri; the capibara, or water paas ; the labba; the aguti; the acuchi; the cairuni, or wild hog; the peceari, or Mexican hog; and deer of different species: other animals are the ant-eaters, armadillo, sloth, otters, several species of pole-cats and opossums. Numerous birds and varieties of monkeys people the otherwise solitary forest, and serve as food to the natives. The manati, lamantine, or sea-cow, is from time to time met with in the largest rivers; its flesh is white and delicate, and has been compared in taste to veal."—Description of British Guiana. As to the opinions of the two Governors —one being in favour of monkeys, the other proposing to acclimatise the boa constrictor —we think Swift’s couplet will apply:— “ Strange that such difference should be ’Twixt tweedle-dum and tweedle-dee.” Barracoota—41bs. to 81bs. Very good eating. Skipjack—Alb. to 31bs. Ditto. Duffy—Small. Exquisitely delicate. Soles—Large ones occasionally. Very excellent eating. Bream—21bs. to 41bs. Very good eating. Butterfish—21bs. to 51bs. Next to snapper, for dinner. Bock-cod—Jib. to 21bs. Very excellent eating. Ling—Jib. to 21bs. Scarce and good. Black perch—Alb. to Gibs. Very good eating. Skate—51bs. to 121bs. Ditto. Flathead—Jib. to 71bs. Very excellent and firm fish, and superior for soup. Mackerel—Ditto. Bare. Silver fish—Jib. Fine flavoured. Flounders—Occasionally large. Very palatable. Crayfish—21bs. to 81bs. Very fine and delicate. Crabs—Small. Shrimps—Ditto. Mussels, cockles, and whelks. Ditto. Mussels.—The mussels of Blackenberghe are a great delicacy ; they are caught on n. bank; they are kept in clear water for two days, to clean, then in scalding water till they open; then a sauce of butter, parsley, and other fragrant herbs is poured over them, shells and all, and they are picked out, nominally, with a fork, but really with a finger and thumb, and eaten with brown bread and butter and Faro beer “Clover ” in Once a Week. Oystera—In embryo. Artificial Breedings of Oysters in Western Port Bay, Victoria.—We have condensed from the Mclbouirne Leader an account of the formation of an oyster breeding establishment in Victoria. The Hon. Mr. Verdon, M.L.C., Mr. Rostron, of Moona 1 ond.s, and Mr. James Putwain, late Inspector of Fisheries, are the parties who have entered into this undertaking1, and the management is in the hands of the latter gentle- man. A great deal has been written about what M. Costa and other French, savans have done, under tlie patronage of the Emperor Napoleon, in the way of oyster breed- ing ; but the enterprise of Mr. Putwain exceeds theirs, inasmuch as the French do not attempt to breed—they only remove the spawn. The bay of Western Port is a land-locked inlet, nearly circular in its upper part, and semi-circular towards the (sea. It is separated from Port Philip Bay by a neck of land about twenty to