SAUCES, 33 Universal Sauce,—Into a pint of broth put a glass of white wine, salt, pepper, grated lemon, a bay leaf, and a spoonful of lemon juice. Let them macerate by the side of the fire for ten hours; and when served, pour over either game, fish, or vegetables, or send to table in a sauce- boat. Trench Shalot Sauce.—Chop fine some shalots, boil them in vinegar, with pepper and salt to taste. About a wine-glassful of vinegar vail be sufficient. Add some good stock, thickened lightly. Sauce Blonde.—Roll about two ounces of butter in flour, moisten it with pale stock, and season it. This delicate sauce is often used in place of white sauce. Dutch Horseradish Sauce.—Scrape some horseradish fine, put it in a stewpan, with some stock; let it stew; add some flour, butter, and a little vinegar. Roux.—Melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, to which add as much flour as will give the sauce proper consistency; when it becomes of a brown colour, add the other ingredients which your sauce is made from. Thickening.—Beat some eggs, separate the yolks from the whites, beat up the yolks with a spoonful or two of the sauce or soup you intend to thicken. Stir it till the mixture is complete; remove the saucepan from the fire, and pour the contents by degrees into the same, turning it with the other hand all the time ; set it again on the fire in order to thicken it, still keeping it stirred, and on no account let it boil. Turtle Sauce.—Put into a pan a pint of beef gravy thickened ; add a wine-glassful of sherry, the juice and peel of a lemon, a few leaves of basil, a shalot divided, a few grains of cayenne, and a little essence of anchovy. Let them simmer for five minutes, and strain through a tammy. This is a very good accompaniment for other dishes besides turtle. Quin Sauce.—Two wine-glassfuls of port, two of walnut pickle, four of ketchup, half a dozen pounded anchovies, a few shalots sliced and pounded, a table-spoonful of soy, and half a drachm of cayenne. Let these ingredients simmer for ten minutes, and strain it into bottles for use. Poivrade Sauce.—Put a bit of butter as big as an egg into a stew- pan, with two or three onions, carrots, and turnips cut in slices, a clove of garlic, two shalots, two cloves, a bay leaf, thyme and basil; keep turning them in the pan until they get a colour ; shake in some flour, and add a glass of red wine, a glass of water, and a spoonful of vinegar, with a little pepper and salt. Boil half an hour, skim and strain it.—La Cuisiniere Bourgeoise. Bonne Bouche, for goose, duck, or roast pork.—Mix a dessert-spoonful of mustard, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a little cayenne in a large glassful D