SMOKING. 234 •was reported in the newspapers a short time ago, of a person having killed himself by excessive inhalations of the noxious plant; and for the sake of public example, it is a pity the fact was not duly reported, and “ crowner’s ’quest law” made known far and wide—“smoked himself to death.” The celebrated Dr. Parr was a great smoker, and invariably refused to dine anywhere unless he was allowed this indulgence. His answer was, “ Ho pipe, no Parr.” In the East Indies a hookah is used, and the smoke is inhaled through fose-water by a tube with an amber mouth-piece; and a special servant attends and takes charge of the smoking apparatus, who is termed the hookah-hurdar. In Turkey the choice tobacco of Syria is smoked through the cherry-stick of a Turkish or Egyptian chibouque, or by means of the jasmine pipe of the Nargilly. Smoking is in general favour after meals in all countries, and we may therefore give it a short notice in a book on cookery. In the army and navy, not to say volunteers, and'in the bush, a pipe is in request. With our allies, the Turks, whether on shore or on board their men-of-war, no visit is satisfactory unless “ pipes and coffee ” are introduced, as they are considered by all Eastern nations as the calumet of peace. Ure writes—it has been observed by Lane, the learned annotator of the “Arabian Nights” (and the observation has been confirmed by the experience of Mr. Layard, M.P., the explorer of Assyria), that the growth and use of tobacco amongst Oriental nations has gradually reduced the resort to intoxicating beverages; and Mr. Crawford, in a paper on the “ History and Consumption of Tobacco,” in the “ Journal of the Statistical Society” for March, 1853, remarks, that simultaneously with the decline in the use of spirits in Great Britain, has been a corresponding increase in the use of tobacco. America produces annually about two hundred millions of pounds. Various are the kinds of the noxious weed, from the mild Latakia, the pungent Virginia, to the favourite Havannah, which Dr. Lyon Playfair assures us is the finest tobacco in the world, while Baroni, in “ Tancred,” claims pre-eminence for the Latakia, having smoked all. Marryatt, in one of his works, expresses a strong opinion of the Nicotiana tahacum in the following apostrophe:— I love tliee, whether thou appearest in the shape of a cigar, or diest away in sweet perfume enshrined in the meerschaum bowl. A paper on “Tobacco,” by II. E. Adams, headed— You takers of tobacco and strong waters, Mark this!—Ben Jonson, is much more elaborate on the article of smoking. “ Shepherd, where is your pipe? ” asks Miss Amantia Dowsabel Higgins, as she rambled on the glassy meads all bespangled with daisies, while the air was musical with the tingling of sheep-bells, the singing of birds, the murmtuing of bees, and other pleasing sounds of rural life. “ Where is your pipe?” re- peated the charming fair one, in the most mellifluous accents, to the gentle shepherd, whom she designated Corydon, of course anticipating that was the youth’s baptismal appellation; when the following reply