31 SAUCES. saucepan, with a table-spoonful of cold water; let them simmer until done add a little butter and sugar to sweeten them. Kice Sauce.—Boil a little rice in a pint of milk, add onion and white pepper and salt. Rub it through a tamis sieve, and, if necessary, thicken it with cream. Sauce Robert.—This is one of the most simple and excellent of sauces, and is called after a French cook of the name. It is very good with either pork, poultry, or mutton. Put a quantity of flour into a dry pan, and brown it. When browned cut a couple of onions up and brown them; then add a table-spoonful of ketchup, a little pepper and salt, a tea- spoonful of mustard, the juice of half a lemon, or a table-spoonful of vinegar, and half a pint of stock ; let it simmer for ten minutes. Wine Sauce for Venison, Hare, or Kangaroo.—A quarter of a pint of port wine or claret, or dark Sydney wine; the same quantity of good gravy, and a table-spoonful of currant jelly; warm up, and serve. Sharp Sauce for Venison, Hare, or Kangaroo.—Put into a sauce- pan half a pint of the best white wine vinegar, and a quarter of a pound of white sugar ; let it simmer, and serve. Sauce for Pried Meat.—When meat of any kind has been fried in fat in a pan—whether chops, steaks, or cutlets—when they are done re- move them, and pour out of the pan all but a couple of table-spoonfuls. Mix up, say half a pint of flour and water, pour it into the pan, and let it simmer until done; add a table-spoonful of ketchup. This is very savoury if properly made. Bread Sauce.—Boil two onions, cut in parts, in milk until reduced to pulp. Pour the milk on stale bread, and cover it close. In half an hour put it into a saucepan, with a piece of butter, and add a very small quantity of flour; add peppA and salt, and let it simmer for ten minutes. Sauce au Roi.—Mix two quarts of vinegar, a pint of soy, and a pint of walnut ketchup, with six cloves, six shalots, and a quarter of an ounce of cayenne pepper ; let it stand for use. Kelly’s Sauce Piquante.—This is the sauce of an epicure, whose name it bears. Put a cable-spoonful of parsley leaves, and the same o: capers, into a mortar, and pound them ; add a table-spoonful of fresL mustard, and three hard yolks of eggs, and properly mix the whole. Then add six anchovies, boned and forced through a sieve, a table-spoon- ful of vinegar, two of oil, and a finely-chopped shalot, and mix the whole. When to be used, stir the sauce into half a pint of melted butter or strong gravy. Wou-Wou Sauce.—Chop some parsley leaves fine, and add two or three pickled walnuts or cucumbers. Put into a pan a bit of butter; when it has melted stir in a table-spoonful of flou^, and about half a pint