CONFECTIONERY. 104 Ginger tea is an excellent stimulant for languid habits. Some headaches are relieved by applying to the forehead a poultice of scraped ginger and hot water. Ginger-beer often disagrees with persons, owing to the sugar ; for, if made without it, it agrees with such persons well. Ginger, it should be remembered, however, loses much of its efficacy with age, so that old pieces are worthless.—Things not Generally Known. Loud Guloseton.—“A new friend,” said he, as we descended into the dining-room, “is like a new dish; one must have him all to oneself, thoroughly to enjoy and rightly to understand him.” “ A noble precept,” said I, with enthusiasm. “Of all vices, indiscriminate hospitality is the most pernicious. It allows us neither conversation nor dinner, and, the mytho- logical fable of Tantalus, gives us starvation in the mylst of plenty.” “You are right," said Guloseton, solemnly; “ I never ask above six persons to dinner, and I never dine out: for a bad dinner, Mr. Pelham, a bad dinner is a most serious—I may add the most serious calamity.” “Yes,” I replied; “ for it carries with it no consolation. A buried friend maybe replaced; a lost mistress renewed; a slandered character be recovered; even a broken constitution restored; but a dinner, once lost, is irremediable ; that day is for ever de- parted; an appetite, once thrown away, can never, till the cruel prolixity of the gastric agent is over, be regained. ‘ lly a. tard de mattresses (says the admirable Corneille), il n’n a nn’un diner.’"—Pelham. XXXII.—CONFECTIONERY. That our great king himself doth woo me oft For my confections. The Queen in “ CymleUnc." Caramel.—Put a pound of the finest powdered loaf sugar into a pan, with half a pint of water and the white of an egg. Whisk the mixture till it boils, taking off the scum as it rises. Let it boil five minutes, then run it through a tamis; put it again on the fire and boil it up. When it has reached caramel height, it must be taken off. To ascertain the latter, when the syrup has become thick, dip into it the handle of a spoon, and immediately put it into cold water : if the sugar on it becomes crisp, it is done. To spin a basket or any other ornament, when the caramel begins to cool take some up with a spoon, and run it cleverly in thin threads over the mould, which must have been oiled. The French are most expert in the mysteries of sugared ornaments. Snow Trifle.—This has an elegant appearance on the table, and is dimply prepared. Whip the whites of eight eggs until they form a very thick froth. Put a pint and a half of milk on to boil, and when it boils place on its surface as many table-spoonfuls of the whipped whites of eggs as will stand on it without touching each other. As each spoonful becomes cooked and assumes the appearance of snow, take it off and put on another, until all the whipped eggs are done. As you take off the snow from the milk, put it on a hair sieve to drain. When all the snow is done, add to the milk a bit of lemon-peel, and sugar enough to sweeten it well. As soon as it has acquired the flavour of the lemon-peel, stir into it the yolks of eight eggs beaten up with a table-spoonful of orange- flower water; when of proper consistency, but not so thick as cream, pour