47 POULTRY. the craw of the pigeons, lard the breasts, and fry them brown. After- wards place them in a stewpan, with some stock, and simmer them for : three-quarters of an hour; thicken the gravy with a piece of butter rolled into some flour, serve with forcemeat balls, and pour the gravy over the pigeons. Poulet a Moi.—Put a fowl, breast downwards, in an earthen pan with a cover; shred over it a small onion, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and two sticks of celery; fill in the hollow with a pound of sausages. Pepper, salt, and cayenne to taste. Cover it close; put. in the oven just after breakfast and forget it till dinner. If it should be forgotten till night, take off the cover before putting it away in the larder, and in the morning turn it out in a mould of jelly. If the celery is bought, i.e., long gathered, add a little water. If you have no sausages, add lumps of butter and more water. This is the kind contribution of a colonial lady, under the signature of “ N. M. A.,” and it will he found an unexceptionable dish. Eoast Turkey.—Turkey, like sucking-pig, requires great attention in roasting, and after having been properly trussed and stuffed with veal stuffing. The time of roasting will depend on the size of the turkey. Pork sausages, ham, pork, or bacon, are generally served with roast turkey, and sometimes forcemeat balls; and egg, bread, oyster, celery, or gravy sauce. Turkey may be stuffed with forcemeat of veal mixed with sausage-meat, liver, parsley, and chives, chopped fine. A turkey is improved by roasting it covered with bacon and paper; to be taken off a short time before it is done, to brown. Chestnuts roasted, grated, or sliced, and truffles or mushrooms, stewed and sliced, are both an addition and improvement to forcemeat for turkeys. Chestnuts, stewed in brown gravy, are the correct thing to be served with this dish. The turkey did not arrive in England till a.d. 1521, about the fifteenth year of the reign of Henry VIII. According to Baker’s Chronicle, “ Tturkies, carps, hoppes, piccarell, and beere. Came into England all in one year.” The truffled turkeys of Perigueux have acquired a world-wide notoriety. They are sold in Paris for £2 and £3 each, and one of them forms an exquisitely delicious roast, that, we arc told, would throw Heliogabalus into ecstacies. Truffles are a food worthy of kings—an ambrosia fit for the gods. An immense trade in truffles is carried on in Perigueux. Truffled turkeys, capons, chickens, pheasants, and partridges, also truffled pies—pies that will keep a year—are exported from Perigueux to all parts of the world. These pies are made in tureens, and may be seen at the windows of the Italian ware- houses iu London, labelled “ pate defaisan aux truffes;” or, “ pdte de becasse aux truffes” and so forth. The trade has enriched the naturally poor city of Perigueux, and the whole province. The truffle v, 11 not only impart its delicate flavour and fragrance to the meat, but will preserve it sweet for a long time. A truffled turkey will keep sweet a month. Boiled Turkey,—Boiling a turkey is a very common mode of dressing it, and, if nicely done, makes an agreeable disk. It should be trussed", with the liver and gizzard in the wings, well dredged with flour, and fastened in a napkin, having previously filled the crop with forcemeat ; made of crumbs of bread, parsley, pepper, salt, nutmeg, lemon-peel, anchovy, oysters chopped, shredded mushrooms, a little suet, butter, and bound together with an egg. In the water in which the turkey is boiled