208 A bachelor’s dinner, according to soyer. gourmets commence this course with the entrees. The plan which ouMifc to be followed is to begin with the boiled, aud, if your appetite is good^o slightly touch the roast, partaking of wines according to the nature of the dish; for instance, boiled poultry with oyster sauce, return to Chablis; lamb, with caper sauce, to hock or Moselle; roast mutton, light claret; roast beef, sherry or Madeira. The two substantials having been disposed of, the palate has now arrived at that degree of perfection (supposing the wines partaken of to have been good of their kind, for nothing destroys the reputation of a good dinner more than bad wines), in which the art of the cook, as displayed in his entrees, now engages the attention of the guests. These entrees should be as different as possible, and also differ from the roast and boiled. With the entrees, whatever their nature, it is generally the custom to partake of champagne. This, wheu the ladies are at the table, I do not object to, as they are not supposed to be professors in the science of eating, but with the real epicure it is a sin I cannot pardon. The wine to be partaken of depends upon the nature of the entree, but should never be of that luscious description as to over- power the delightful sensation produced bythep/ut. These having been removed, their places should be occupied by two dishes of nicely-roasted game and four entremets—as, for instance, woodcocks and pheasants, or even a fine larded capon and wild fowl, and one savory, one vegetable, and two sweets as entremets. With the roast I prefer claret or red Burgundy; with the entremets may be served champagne. These entremets should display the skill of the professor, not in a way that anything about them cannot be partaken of, but that what they are made of may delight the sight as well as the taste. The roast should be removed with two dfihes, containing either a souffle, a pudding, or something of that sort. These- being disposed of, I would have the dessert placed on the table, with the cheese handed round, aud at the same time a loving cup, or, if that is not to be obtained, a tankard full of the same liquid. Port wine may be partaken of with the dessert. The plates should be changed as often as possible, and not left, as at present, to receive a collectiou of orange and apple peel, and*other refuse. During the time that this is being partaken of—say twenty minutes or half an hour, or even longer, so much depend- ing upon the Amphitryon aud his guests—the coffee ought to be intro- duced, and the table should be immediately cleared, or the guests go into- the drawing-room, should the unhappy bachelor happen to have one, and the remainder of the evening may be passed according to the disposition and taste of the party, such as music, cards, &c. ; aud I am afraid the enjoyment of the evening would not be complete without cigars.” A Great Man not so Particular as Dr. Johnson.—The Duke dined one day in Paris with M. Cambaceres, one of the most renowned gourmets in France. The host having- pressed a recherche dish upon the Duke, asked eagerly, when the plate was cleared, how he had liked it. “ It was excellent,” replied the Duke ; “ but to tell you. the truth, I don’t care what I eat." “ Good heavens! ” exclaimed Cambaceres; “ don’t care what you eat! Why, then, did you come hero ? Anecdote of the Duka of Wel- lington. Comino Date to Dinner.—Jack Sippit never keeps the hour he has appointed to come to a friend's dinner; but he is an insignificant fellow, who does it out of vanity. Ho could never, he knows, make any figure m company, but by giving a little disturo-