116 VEGETABLES. a tub of salt and water ought to be kept in readiness in every garden for the purpose, and in this the potatoes can be proved. If replenished once a week it will be found sufficient.—Scottish Fanner. Different Ways of Cooking Potatoes.—Mrs. Rundell prefers steaming in plenty of water, and, when half done, some cold water and salt thrown in, and then left in the pot over the fire. Mrs. Glasse.—Boil in as little water as possible, without burning the saucepan. Mrs. Acton.—The potatoes to be peeled, and boiled slowly ; when done, salt thrown over, and the pot shook violently, so that they are not broken. M. Soyer.—If potatoes are steamed, salt should be thrown into the water, and not on the potatoes; and, when done, remove the steamer, and also the cover.—The fisherman simply boils bis potato in the salt water of the sea, and by this mode can dress them as well as any other. Reader, if you are at all subject to dyspepsia, beware, oh! beware of waxy or watery potatoes. Mealy potatoes are those that are nutritious, as they contain the greatest amount of gluten, which is the important consideration. The Quarterly states that a club committee were specially called together to select a cook. There were two candi- dates, an Englishman, from the Albion, and a Erenchman, recommended by Ude; an eminent divine was deputed to examine them, and the first question he put to each was, “ Can you boil a potato ?” Green Peas.—Green peas are reckoned early in the season a great delicacy, and they are a wholesome vegetable. They require plenty of water, and when done must be removed from the fire. Drain them on a hair sieve, and put them in the dish with the least bit of butter. A sprig of mint boiled with them is usually sent up with the peas. Beans are sometimes boiled with a small piece of bacon; if by them- selves, they, need the addition of parsley and butter. Most vegetables being more or less succulent, require their full proportion of fluids for retaining that state of crispness and plumpness which they have when growing. On being cut or gathered the exhalation from their surface continues, while from the open vessels of the cut surface there is often great exudation or evaporation, and thus their natural moisture is diminished, the tender leaves become flaccid, and the thicker masses or roots lose their plumpness. This is not only less pleasant to the eye, but is a real injury to the nutritious powers of the vegetable, for in this flaccid and shrivelled state its fibres are less divided in chewing, and the water which exists in vegetable substances in the form of their natural juices, is directly nutritious. The first care, therefore, in the preservation of succulent vegetables is, to prevent them from losing their natural moisture.—Edinburgh Cycloptcdia. Spinach.—This vegetable must be well cleaned, and boiled quick. Put a little salt in the water, and, when well done, strain it well from the water. Poached eggs, with fried bread as a garnish, is frequently served with spinach. Asparagus.—Great care must be observed in boiling asparagus. They must be tied in bundles of the same size and length, and put into the boiling water with a little salt. When done it is taken out of the pan and served on toast. Vegetable Marrow.—This is an excellent vegetable in any way it may be dressed, whether fried, boiled, or stewed. There are numerous varieties, some tasteless, others full of flavour. On one occasion we cul- tivated a small oblong kind, the taste of which was so like asparagus, that it was an impossibility to tell it in flavour from the latter esculent. True and Jerusalem artichokes, sea-kale, nettles, cabbage, greens, savoys, cauliflower, broccoli, parsnips, turnips, carrots, French beans, man-