CAKES. 148 They consisted of meal, aniseed, cummin, and several other aromatics. Their object was to remove or prevent the indigestion which might occur after a feast. A cake was therefore, constantly introduced for such a purpose after a marriage entertainment* :uid hence the origin of the “ bride cake,” which in modern times is an excellent inven- tion for producing instead of curing indigestion.—Old Magazine. Plain Pound Cake.—Made in a like manner, with a pound of butter, a pound of sugar, and nine eggs. Beat separately, and baked in the same way as the twelfth cake, with less time. Common Seed Cake.—Take two pounds and a half of flour, and half a pound of white sugar; put it into a bowl, and make a cavity in the centre, and pour in half a pint of lukewarm milk, and two table- spoonfuls of yeast. Set it in a -warm place for an hour ; then melt to an oil half a pound of fresh butter, and add to the other ingredients, with an ounce of carraway seeds, and warm milk to make it a middling stiffness. But it into a round tin, and allow it to rise again a short time, and then bake. A Kick Cake.—Take two pounds and a half of Jones’s patent flour, add to it a pint and a half of cold milk, a pound of butter, oiled, a pound of sifted sugar, a pound of currants, a quarter of a pound of lemon and orange-peel, and a little grated nutmeg, cinnamon, and allspice. Put these ingredients in a rouud tin and bake an hour. This cake may be iced or ornamented. Queen Oakes.—One pound of sugar, one pound of butter, eight eggs, one pound and a quarter of flour, two ounces of currants, and half a nut- meg. Mix the butter with sugar and spice, then add half the eggs, and beat for a few minutes, add the rest of the eggs, and work for five minutes longer; stir in the flour and currants, when bake in shapes. Plain Sponge Oake.—One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, and eight eggs. Beat the yolks and the whites of the eggs separate suffi- ciently, then add the two together, and put in the sugar. When mixed, add the flour by degrees; a few drops of essence of lemon is an improve- ment. Butter a dish and bake. Shrewsbury Cakes.—Rub together one pound of white sugar, one pound of fresh butter, and a pound and a half of flour. Mix it into a paste, with half a gill of milk and one egg beaten. Let it lie half an hour, roll it out thin, cut it into cakes, and bake them in a moderate oven. Victoria Cake.—Take the yolks of twelve eggs, leaving out the whites of six, one pound of white sugar, the juice of one lemon, and the peel of two cut very fine; whisk these ingredients together for half an Lour, and then add twelve ounces of flour. The cake must be put in the oven and baked an hour. Passover Cakes.—Make a stiff paste with biscuit-powder, milk, and water, add a small piece of butter, the yolk of an egg, and a little white sugar. Cut it into pieces, mould with the hand, and bake in a crisp oven. To make them without butter, warm a quarter of a pint of milk,