115 VEGETABLES from the time of tlieir being taken up, by Mr. M'Cormack, land steward to the Earl of Ckarlemont, obtained the prize from the Royal Dublin Society a few years since :— First, the species of potato with which I am acquainted for long keeping is the apple (either red or white), and those, in the present state of my information, should always be preferred for that purpose. Secondly, they should be planted in March, or, at the farthest, the middle of April, from the circumstance of their taking a longer time in the ground to mature the crop than any other potato I know of. And next in import- ance is to avoid putting them in any way exposed to the southern sun. I should prefer for the purpose a close place, surrounded with large trees, but not under their drops, for the cooler the situation is in which they are pitted the better, provided that no water can lodge in the pits or about them. The potatoes produced were taken out of the ground in November, and pitted in a situation where neither the morning nor the midday sun had much influence upon them, the solar heat from the south and east being intercepted by two plantations. The potatoes have been taken out of these pits by the middle of March to the potato-house, which is also in a great degree overshadowed by large trees, and the roof on the south side nearly covered with ivy. Here they remained to the 4th of June, turning them carefully over with a wooden shovel every fortnight, but not picking off any of the buds that were produced, which by this system were very few indeed. By the 4th of June I had six cwt. of apple potatoes selected for experiment, two cwt. of which I put upon a loft over the potato-house, with a louvre window facing to the north, which admitted all the changes of atmospheric air, &c.; two cwt. more I put in a coal-room under the same loft, to which, however, there was frequent access. The remaining two cwt. I put in a vault, which is immediately under the grotto of Marino, which adjoins the gardens. This vault is, however, on a level, or nearly so, with the surrounding surface on the garden side, the whole building completely over- shadowed by large trees, evergreens, &c. I placed a thermometer in the vault, and immediately after the potatoes were removed from it (the potato-house) on the 4th of June, the degree of heat in the vault at twelve o’clock at noon was 52°, at six o’clock in the afternoon 52° also. Another thermometer in the open air, on the same day, at twelve o’clock at noon, was 72°; at six in the afternoon, 61°. I continued to observe that in the vault, from the circumstance of its being completely overshadowed with trees, &c., the degree of heat was always the same, whether the day was warm, cold, or changeable. My conclusions are :—First, that a temperature of 52° is the atmosphere potatoes will keep best in; secondly, that the atmospheric changes of heat, cold, and moisture, light and darkness, are all productive of vegetation; and the more these alternate changes can be avoided or counteracted by keeping a low and an even tempe- rature, the better and the longer will the potato keep. The Potato at a Discount.—Dr. Mapother, at the last meeting of the Dublin Royal Society, read a valuable paper on improving the diet of the Irish labourers. He agreed with Cobbett that potatoes had been the curse of Ireland. From potato diet to starvation was but a step. The prevalence of scrofula and consumption he ascribed to this national food. The ash of the potato is remarkably poor in lime and magnesia— materials of the first importance in building the framework of the body. He considered the health and well-being of the Irish peasantry demanded animal food. They could easily be supplied by South America. [Why not from Australia ?] The meat is cut in shoes, dipped in brine and dried in the sun. When soaked for use, it increases three- fold in size, and can be sold for threepence per pound. Capt. Henry stated that he farmed his own land, and that he had established a mess for his labourers with a satis- factory result. He saw his labourers crouched under the hedges eating then- miserable meal of potatoes. He employed a good cook, obtained the best meat and vegetables, and now supplies an abundant, well-dressed dinner for threepence each to the men, and twopence each to the women and children. The numbers thus fed amounted to 200. Dr. Mapother recommended the use of peas and beans ; one pound of peas would form as much muscle as fifteen pounds of potatoes. Mr. Pollock’s men, in the county of Galway, are fed on peas porridge, and they found that it took a long time before the appetite returned. The leguminous seeds are particularly rich in lime and in phos- phone acid that; great constituent of the nobler parts of man, tlie brain, and the locomotive organs.—Condensed from, Irish Newspapers. How to Choose a Good Potato.—The finest, mealiest, and most nutritious pota- toes are always denser and heavier than the soft and waxy. By taking advantage of this difference in their specific gravity, the light and inferior potatoes are made to swnn on the suriace of a solution of salt, while the heavy and good sink to the bottom. By this simple contrivance the dr^r and mealy potatoes are separated from the soft and waxy in the most effectual manner, with the most scientific exactness, and by a process that cannot err. Let the potatoes be first washed clean in fresh water: and as all vege- tables should be washed in salt and water for the dislodgmont of the slug3 or insects.