124 A DINNER FROM THE “ ORIGINAL.” it evenly browned, and, when done, stand by itself or put in the toast- rack. The admirer of dry toast generally likes it as crisp as possible. New Bread.—New bread is an article of food most difficult of digestion. Every- thing which, by mastication, forms a tenacious paste is indigestible, being slowly per- vaded by the gastric juice. Even bread sufficiently old, which it never is until it is quite dry, is frequently oppressive if taken alone and in considerable quantity. The sailors’ biscuit, or bread toasted, often agrees better with a weak stomach than bread in other states.—Dr. Philip. XLII.-A DINNER FROM THE “ORIGINAL.” It is a mistaken notion that good cookery is expensive; on the contrary, it is the cheapest. By good cookery we make the most of everything; by bad cookery, the least.—Ude. The party will consist of seven besides myself, and every guest is asked for some reason, upon which good fellowship mainly depends; for people brought together unconnectedly had, in my opinion, better be kept separate. Eight should be the golden number, never to be exceeded without weakening the efficacy of concentration. The dinner is to con- sist of turtle, followed by no other meat but grouse, which are to be succeeded by apple fritters and jelly, pastry ou such occasions being quite out of place. With the turtle, of course, there will be punch; Avith the Avhitebait, champagne; with the grouse, claret; the two former I have ordered to be particularly well iced, and they will all be placed in succession on the table, so that we can help ourselves as we please. I shall permit no other Avines, unless perchance a bottle or two of port, if. particularly wanted, as I hold a variety of wines a great mistake. With respect to the adjuncts, I shall take care there is cayenne —Avith lemons cut in halves, not quarters—Avithin reach of every one, for the turtle; and that brown bread and butter in abundance is set at the table for the whitebait. It is no trouble to think of these little matters beforehand, but they make a vast difference in a convivial entertainment. The dinner will be followed by ices, and a good dessert; after Avhich coffee and one glass of liquor each, and no more, so that the present may be enjoyed rationally, without inducing retrospective regrets. If the master of a feast wishes his party to succeed, he must know how to com- mand, and not let his guests run riot according each to his own wild fancy. Such, reader, is my idea of a dinner, which I hope you approve ; and I cannot help thinking if Parliament were to grant me £10,000 a year in trust, to entertain a series of worthy persons, it would promote trade and increase the revenue more than any hugger-mugger measure- ever devised.—Extract from the “ Originalby Thomas Walker, M.A., Cambridge, a police magistrate of London. Indigestion.—People very commonly complain of indigestion; how can it be won- dered at when they seem, by their habit of swallowing or bolting their food wholesale, to forget for what purpose they are provided with teeth ? In America this abominable practice obtains to a greater degree than in any other country, so travellers inform us.