CONFECTIONERY. 107 Nougat.—Take a pound of sweet almonds ; blanch them ; cut each almond into four or five slices; dry them on a slow fire, taking care not to let them burn. Put into a pan three-quarters of a pound of sugar in powder, when melted through put in the almonds hot; mix them well together, and put a layer round a buttered mould ; smooth them round equally with a lemon. When small let it cool; and if not quite hard when cold, put your shapes into a cool oven to dry. The shapes should be of tin, to turn.out, and first oiled; it should be of about an inch thick. This is also eaten as a bon bon. German Cream,—Take a pint of wine, put in sugar to taste; a little cinnamon, and boil it half an hour ; mix it lukewarm with the yolks of eight eggs, strained after being well beaten. When cool, put it in a bowl, in a saucepan of hot water till done enough, and then pour it into the dish on which you serve it, cold, garnished with slices of lemon. Constantinople Kouge Eoquelocum,—Dissolve sugar in as strong a syrup as can be made. Colour some red, and have flat, square shapes. Pour the syrup in hot, and strew almonds cut in four, after being blanched with pistachios cut small, let it cool; and if not quite hard when cold, put your shapes into a cool oven to dry. The shapes should be of tin, to turn out, and first oiled; it should be of about an inch thick. This is eaten as a bon bon, and is excellent. Jaime-mange.—Dissolve an ounce of isinglass in half a pint of boiling water; beat the yolks of six eggs, and mix them with half a pint of sherry, the juice of a lemon, and sugar to taste. The peel of the lemon should be rubbed on some of the sug$,r to extract the flavour. Stir all well together, and .boil ten minutes. Strain, and put in a mould for shape. Lemon Sponge.—Take half an ounce of isinglass; dissolve it in a little boiling water ; then take the juice of eight lemons, and put sugar to your taste. Whisk it. together until it becomes a sponge ; then wet the mould and put it in; when set, turn it out. The mixture ought to be nearly cold to whisk well. Everton Toffy.—Put half a pound of butter and half a tea-cupful of water into a pan ; add ;hree pounds of good moist sugar, the grated peel of one lemon; boil in water till it becomes brittle, and then pour on a tin. Barley Sugar.—Put clarified syrup, containing rasped lemon-peel, into a saucepan with a lip as for melting butter, and boil it to caramel height, carefully skimming as it boils. Have ready a marble slab, well buttered, and pour the syrup on it of the thickness required for the sticks of barley sugar. Twist every stick at each end when hot, and it will assume the form required. Barley-sugar Drops arc made in a similar way to the foregoing;