273 BRINKS. 'Sower water, and bottle the mixture. The orgeat is used as a summer ■drink, mixed with water, according to taste. Mead, or Metheglin.—This ancient and, for a long time, favourite drink of the northern nations, is manufactured from honey and water. In England, makers of mead must take out an annual licence. One part of honey is dissolved in three parts of boiling water; it is flavoured with spices, and a portion of ground malt is added to a piece of toast dipped in yeast, to allow the malt to ferment. The Scandinavian mead is flavoured with rose-blossoms. It is frequently mentioned in Ossian. West India Punch,—He made his appearance with a respectably- sized bowl, an enormous jug of boiling water, and a large paper-bag Ailed with sugar. Our punchmaker then commenced operations, and having extracted from his secret store a bottle of his matchless rum, his limes, and a small pot of guava jelly, he brewed about a pint of green tea (two ounces) ; and, the infusion finished, two-thirds of the sugar was dissolved in it. After the tea-leaves bad been thrown aside, the re- mainder of the sugar was rubbed on the rind of the limes, Mr. Hamilton •observing that the essential oil which conveyed the requisite flavour was thus more strongly diffused throughout the compound than when the ■skin was peeled; then the delicious acid of the fruit was added to the already impregnated sugar, and as soon as the several lumps had imbibed the proportion required, the guava jelly (and without this confection no punch can be pronounced perfect) was dissolved in a pint or so of boiling water. This done, the tea, the sweets, and acids were commingled, and the foundation or sherbet tasted by the experienced palate of the grand compounder ; six glasses of cognac, two of Madeira, and the bottle of old rum were added, and over all about a quart more of boiling water, and, as a finishing touch, the slightest possible sprinkling of nutmeg. Here wa,? punch ! it out-nectared nectar! I have, in the West Indies, since the period I am recording, drank some very luscious and fascinating mixtures nearly resembling it; but I never knew it surpassed, if equalled, even in the tropical regions.—Tolpey's “ Sportsman in Canada.” Hard Drinking.—That hard drinking was introduced from Flanders and Holland, and other northern countries, seems probable from the derivation of many of the expres- sions used in carousing. The phrase of being “ half seas over,” as applied to a state of drunkenness, originated from op see, which is Dutch, meaning over sea; and Gifford informs us that it was a name given to a stupefying beer introduced into England from the Low Countries, and called op see. An inebriating draught was also called an up see freese, from the strong Friesland beer. The word “ carouse,” according to Gifford and Blount, is derived from the name of a large glass, called by the Danes rouse, or from the German words gar, all, and aus; hence drink all out.—Things Not Generally Known. Mint Julep.—This is a compound of braudy-and-water, sweetened with white sugar, in which are stuck leaves of fresh-gathered mint. Wenham Lake ice is put into the tumbler, and the drink is taken through, the medium of a straw or glass tube. At the American bars, the brandy- and-water is first put into a large silver or glass goblet, then the broken ice; powdered white sugar is then dashed over; the whole is then violently ■shaken, or tossed from one goblet to another. The American bar-keepers are very expert at this manipulation. a