YEAST. 20> The following correspondence appeared some few years since in the London Times in reference to this subject:— How to Make yonr own Yeast.— “ TO THE EDITOR OF THE ‘ TIMES.’ “ Sir,—As you have succeeded in giving instructions to your readers how to grind their own wheat, and where to get an oven to bake it, to render your services complete I send you the following recipe for yeast. The new system will be incomplete without it. That the housekeeper may be independent both of the brewer and that compound called German yeast, I will give it you in plain language :— “ Monday morning boil two ounces of the best hops in four quarts of water for half an hour, strain it, and let the liquor cool down to new milk warmth, then put in a small handful of salt and half a pound of brown sugar ; beat up one pound of the best flour with some of the liquor, and then mix all together. “ On Wednesday add three pounds of potatoes boiled and then mashed, to stand till Thursday; then strain it and put it into bottles, and it is- ready for use. “ jST.B.—It must be stirred frequently while it is making, and kept near the fire. Before using shake the bottle well up. It will keep in a cool place for two months, and is best at the latter part. The beauty of this yeast is that it ferments spontaneously, not requiring the aid of other yeast; and if care be taken to let it ferment well in the earthen bowl in which it is made, you may cork it up tight when bottled. I put mine into Seltzer-water bottles, and this quantity will fill four. I have used it now for many months, and never had lighter bread than it affords,, without any failure.—Yours, &c., “ D. S. Y.” [Times, October 22, 1855.] “to the editor of the ‘times.’ “Sir,—There appeared lately in the Times a letter signed ‘D. S. Y.’ con- taining directions for making yeast. I have most carefully followed them in every particular, and the result has been a total failure. “In a time when it is of the utmost importance to increase the supply of good wholesome bread, and there are mills for grinding and ovens tor baking at home, it would be a great boon to all those who know the constant difficulty of procuring yeast to discover some way of making it. If any of your numerous readers could send a recipe for insertion in your coiu.nns, it would be, I am sure, thankfully received by many, and by none more so than “ Your obedient servant, “II. “ January 17.” [Times, January 21, 1856.] “TO THE EDITOR OF THE ‘ TIMES.1 “ Sir,—In reply to ‘ II ’ in the Times of this morning, and dated January 17th, I beg to say that I have copied the following recipe from