GAME. 81 In olden times it .was the fashion in summer time, we may presume, always to take the dessert in the summer-house in the garden. We are reminded of this in the “ Second Part of Henry IV.,” when Shallow tells Falstaff, Silence, Bardolph, Davy, and the Page— “Nay, you shall see mine orchard; whence, in an arbour, we will eat a last year’s pippin of my own grafting, with a dish of carraways, and so forth. Come, Cousin ' Silence, and then to bed.” The celebrity of Mazagong is owing to its mangoes, which are certainly the best fruit I ever tasted. The parent tree, from which all those of this species have been grafted, is honoured dining the fruit season by a guard of sepoys; and in the reign of Shah Jehan couriers were stationed between Delhi and the Mahratta coast, to secure an abundant and fresh supply of mangoes for the royal table.—Mrs. Graham's “ Journal af a Kesidence in India." The mangusteen, the most delicate fruit in the world; the pride of the Malay Islands. —Mars den. A Luxury.—Frozen water-melon is all the rage among the epicures at Washington. The melon (select a first-class one in the start at first) subjected to the freezing process should be buried in pounded ice, perhaps twelve hours previous to use, and packed away carefully in the coolest place attainable. When again brought to light the melon shows an even coating like dew upon its surface, and on being cut (lengthwise, by all means), a smart crisp detonation precedes the knife in its process, when the fruit is in perfect condition. Then carve, and eat ad libitum.—Washington Evening Star. The Fig.—This fruit, even in a perfectly dry state, is about as nutritious as rice. In the moist state, as imported, the fig will go considerably further in feeding and fattening than an equal quantity of wheaten flour.—J. F. W. Johnston. XXVI.—GAM E. The effect of keeping game is not only to make it tender, but likewise to bring out its (flavour, which tends in another way to promote digestion. Nothing is more tasteless ■than a pheasant cooked too soon, or has a finer flavour after hanging a proper length of time. No doubt, the flavour, while it gratifies the palate, assists digestion, by sympa- thetically, exciting the stomach.—Mayo on the “ Philosophy of Living." Haunch of Venison Roasted.— The haunch was a picture for painters to study. The fat was so white, and the lean was so ruddy.—Goldsmith. Take a haunch of venison and set it before a slow fire, taking care to paper it to prevent its scorching. Baste it well with salt and water at •first, but afterwards use clean dripping or butter, dredge it with flour, and when it is done it will be frothed and browned on both sides. Wrap a white paper ruffle round the knuckle-bone, and send it to table with plain gravy ; serve with currant jelly. If the venison has hung long, the outer skin had better be removed. Unless the venison is very tender and fat, a haunch of good mutton, dressed in the same way, and kept, is preferable. Venison Pasty. A shoulder boned makes a good pasty, but it must be beaten and seasoned, and the want of fat supplied by that of a fine well-hung loin of mutton, steeped twenty-four hours in equal parts of rape, vinegar, and port. The shoulder being sinewy, it will be an Advantage to rub it well with sugar for two or three days, and when it is G