LAVER. 245 disposal of the society, by Sir W. C. Trevelyan, Bart., to which they have added their prize medal, for the discovery of a process for preserv- ing fresh meat better than any hitherto employed. This matter is of the most paramount importance to Australia, and we hope that some useful result will accrue from the competition for this prize. Dinner.—Among the Romans this was rather considered as a refreshment to prevent faintness, than as a meal to convey nourishment. It consisted principally of some light repast, without animal food, or wine; but in modern times it is considered the principal meal, at which every species of luxurious gratification is indulged in. With regard to the proper period at which invalids should dine, physicians entertain hut one opinion—it should be in the middle of the day, or about two or three o’clock. Sir A. Carlisle has justly observed, that it is thus best adapted to the decline of animal vigour, because it affords a timely replenishment before the evening waning of the vital powers, and which naturally precede the hours of rest; besides which, the custom tends to prevent intemperance; while late hours, and consequent state of exhaustion, demand or seem to justify an excessive indulgence in strong drinks and iu variety ©f food.—Dr. Paris on “ Diet.” CVII.— L AV E R—(Porphyra Laciniata). Point de legumes—point de cuisiniere.—French Culinary Adage. This is a species of reddish sea-weed, or ulva—the sea and river wort— and found on many pebbly beaches all over the world. The poor eat it in the lligh'ands of Scotland on bread, and the Irish use it sometimes in- stead of butter ; but, with the rich, it is one of the dainties of the dinner- table, and served hot in a silver lamp dish. It is eaten with roast beef or mutton. The manner of its cookery is simple. It is stewed, with a little butter, the juice of a lemon, some cayenne pepper, with a spoonful of glaze. It would be a first-rate dish for the Celestials, and beat their birds’ nests fare all to pieces. There is a gelatinous sea-weed—an alga— sometimes used for making jelly, to be found in the bay at the estuary of the Derwent, in Ta-m mia. We have never heard of its being cooked like the laver; perhaps it might be equally as good. It is, we believe, the Laminaria potatrium. In Dr. Hooker’s botanical account of the sea-weeds of the Falkland Islands, be states, that the green, pink, and purple lavers of Great Britain were there found in great plenty.—Sir James Ross's “ Voyage to the Southern Seas." Broad-leaved Laver (Ulra latissima').—This is rarely used, being considered inferior to lhe Porphyra laciniata (laciniated purple laver). This alga is abundant on all our shores. It is pickled with salt, and sold in Kngland as laser, in Ireland as .Joke, and in Scotland as slunk. The London shops are mostly supplied with laver from the coasts of Devon- shire. When stewed, it is brought to the table, and eaten with pepper, butter or oil, and lemon-juice or vinegar. Some persons stew it with lei ks and onions. 1 h - pepper dulse (Laurencia pennalijida), distinguished for its pungent taste, is often used ns a condiment when other sea-weeds are eaten.. Tangle (/ aminamu digiiala), so called in Scotland, is termed red-ware in the Orkneys, sea-weed m the Highlands, and sea-girdles in England. The flat, leathery fronds of this weed, when young, arc em-