126 THE HUNDRED GUINEA DISn. 5 Turtle heads, part of fins, and green fat 24 Capons" (the two small noix from middle of back only used) 18 Turkeys—the same 18 Poulards—the same 16 Fowls—the same 10 Grouse ... 20 Pheasants—noix only 45 Partridges—the same 6 Plovers 40 Woodcocks—noix only 3 Dozen quails, whole 100 Snipes—noix only 3 Dozen pigeons—noix only... 6 Dozen larks, stuffed Ortolans, from Belgium The garnish, consisting of cocks’ combs, truffles, mushrooms, crayfish, olives, American asparagus, croustades, sweet- breads, quenelles de volaille, green mangoes, and. a new SclUCG ••• ••• ••• • • • • • • sts <£ s. d. 34 0 a 8 8 0 8 12 0 5 17 0 2 8 0 2 5 0 3 0 0 3 7 0 0 9 0 S 0 0 3 0 0 5 0 0 0 14 0 0 15 0 5 0 0 14 10 0 £105 5 O If an epicure were to order such a dish only, he would be charged for the whole of the above-mentioned articles. We append to these remarts on the late Prince Albert an extract from an English newspaper, showing that even the Royal family of England are most properly brought up to domestic pursuits; indeed, the sketch thus drawn by the British periodical is worthy of the attentive perusal and example of every circle, high or low, in England and Australasia:— Employment op the Queen’s Eamily.—At the seaside residence of Queen Victoria, in the Isle of Wight, a large portion of the pleasure ground is appropriated to the young princes and princesses, who have each a flower and a vegetable garden, green- house, hot-houses, and forcing-frames, nurseries, tool-houses, and even a carpenter’s shop. Here the Royal children pass many hours of their time. Each is supplied with a set of tools marked with the name of the owner, and here they work with the enthu- siasm of an amateur and the zeal of an Anglo-Saxon. There is no branch of gardening in which the Royal children are not at home. Moreover, on this juvenile property is a building, the ground-floor of which is fitted up as a kitchen, with pantries, closets, larders, and dairy, all complete in their arrangements; and here may be seen the young princesses, arrayed in their aprons and cooking jackets, floured to the elbows, deep in the mysteries of pastry making, like rosy farm-girls; cooking the vegetables from their own gardens, preserving, pickling, baking, sometimes to partake among themselves, or to distribute to the poor of the neighbourhood, as the result of their own handiwork. The Queen is determined that nothing shall remain unlearned by her children; nor are the young people ever happier than while thus engaged. Over the domestic establish- ment is a museum of natural history, furnished with curiosities collected by the young party in their rambles and researches—geological and botanical specimens, stuffed birds and animals, articles of their own construction, and whatever is curious or interesting, classified and arranged by themselves. Here the most exalted and purifying tastes are cultivated. Here Nature, common to all, is studied and admired; while beyond this, a capability of entering into the condition of the people, and a sympathy for their labours, is acquired by a practical knowledge of what labour is; and though we need scarcely suppose that the Royal children weary themselves as those who gain their bread by the sweat of their brow, yet even in their moderate digging and working they must learn the better to appreciate the results of labour in the luxuries surrounding them. This is a picture of which the English nation may justly be proud. There is not such another Royal family on the face of the earth.—Christian Witness.