NEW ZEALAND FISH. 22 G For there was store of viands good— Beef, mutton, lamb, and veal; And tongues, and hams, and sucking-pigs, As fat as e’er did squeal. There hens and cocks, and bubbly-jocks AVere plucked, and stuffed, and trussed ; And puddings crammed so full of plums, The cook “ was sure they’d bust! ” And on a lordly dish, upraised, The lure of every eye, In tempting glory was displayed A noble warden-pie. That very pie the warden made— As he had sworn to do— [Or if he didn’t, it was wrong, And I’m mistaken too. The recipe is in his Book, At Section Ninety-two.] —-Extract from the “ Revels of Rokesby. ” in a late number of the “ Hobart Town Advertiser," on the occasion of the annual ploughing match at Clarence, in Tasmania, under the patronage of the Warden (the author holding that office) and Municipal Council, in 1863, at which the Governor and Mrs. Gore Brown were present. XCVIII.—NEW ZEALAND FISH. Many estates are spent in the getting. Since women for tea forsook spinning and knitting, And men for punch forsook hewing and splitting.—Poor Richard. One hundred different species of fish have been described by naturalists as frequenting the coasts; and this list is apparently very imperfect, seeing that the natives have enumerated to me many more they are in the habit of eating. Next to the shark, which renders bathing dangerous in the summer, the hapuka is the largest New Zealand salt-water fish. One hundred pounds is no unusual weight for an hapuka. Immense shoals of fish visit the bays and inlets during the summer, and various edible shell- fish abound in the sands along the beach. Flying fish are frequently observed in close proximity to the coast. In the lakes of New Zealand are a large number of delicate fish, not unlike whitebait, called inanga; and in the rivers and lakes there are numerous eels, occasionally weighing fifty pounds. These are the only two kinds of fresh-water fish which can properly be said to form a part of the food of the natives. The lamprey (pipiha.ru) is, properly speaking, a salt- water fisb, which enters the river to spawn. The fresh-water mussel and the crayfish are plentiful in some parts. Every fish found in the surrounding sea is eaten by the natives, except the shark—from which teeth are obtained for ornaments—portions of the stingaree, and one or two rcd-coloured fish, which are said to be poisonous.