BUTTER. 246 ployed as food. Mr. Simmonds tells us, “ There was a time when the cry of ‘Buy dulse and tangle’was as common in the streets of Edin- burgh and Glasgow as that of ‘ Water-cresses’ now in the metropolis.”— Society of Arts' Journal. Dinners.—One of the greatest sources of complaint in society is the want of pro- priety in the conducting of entertainments in all their varieties, from the simple family dinner to the splendid banquet. For instance, a family dinner; a family dinner to which guests are admitted; a common dinner party ; an entertainment; a bachelors’ dinner; a ministerial dinner; and a dress dinner. Though these and similar other entertainments are distinct, yet the distinctions are not so strictly observed as those in other usages of society. At the plainest, as well as the most splendid of these enter- tainments, everything ought to be as good, and as well cooked, and niceaspossible; but the style of service ought to be varied, rising from the simple, in elegant succession, to the sumptuous. For real taste does not indiscriminately present turtle and venison on every occasion ; something more delicately palatable and less obtrusive is presented, with the zest of a fine mango, high-flavoured vinegars, well-made sauces, nice salads, and appropriate wines, with the charms of well-supported conversation, affording an uncloying feast throughout the year.—Fean Villiers. CVIII.—BUTTER. Unquiet meals make ill digestion.—Old Saying. Butter is, perhaps, in more general use, and subject to greater varia- tions in quality, than any other substance employed in domestic economy. It is consumed by every grade of society, and, when good, appears not only to be wholesome, but extremely nutritious. Some writers inveigh against the use of butter, as universally pernicious ; but they might with equal reason condemn the vegetable oils, which form a considerable part of the diet in the southern climates, and seem to be beneficially intended by nature for that purpose. That butter may be improper in some bilious constitutions there can be little doubt; but the same objection tells against any other substance used as food; for instances are not uncommon of the most delicate and nutritious articles disagreeing with persons under certain circumstances, and who are of peculiar idiosyncrasy. To obviate all objections, it would be a commendable practice for the bilious, at breakfast, first to eat some dry bread—crust is better—and to chew it well before taking any butter. By these means such a quantity of saliva would be carried into the stomach as would be sufficient for the purpose of digesting the usual amount of oil and fatty matter taken with our food. —Cooley's '•'■Practical Receipts." Butter was not used either by the Greeks or Romans in cooking or the preparation of their food, nor was it brought on the tables by way of dessert, as it is everywhere customary at present. We never find it mentioned by Galen or others as food, though they have spoken of it as applicable to other purposes ; no notice is taken of it by Apicius, nor is there anything said of it in that respect by the authors who treat of agriculture, though they have giveu us very particular information with respect to milk, cheese, and oil. This, as has been remarked by others, may be easily accounted for by the ancients having accustomed themselves to the use of good oil; and in like manner butter