206 TEAST. your paper in September or October last. I have used it ever since with invariable and complete success. “ If the recipe is the same as that alluded to by ‘ II,’ there must have been some fault in preparing it, as I have never found it fail. I make bread three times a week with it for my family. “ The bread takes a considerable longer time to rise in the sponge, and also after being made into dough, than that made by ordinary yeast, and is better by being baked in a tin. “M. II.” (The recipe enclosed.) “ TO TIIE EDITOR OF TIIE ‘ TIMES.’ “ Sir,—In answer to your correspondent ‘ II ’ the following I consider an undoubted recipe, and one in constant use in Cornwall, where yeast is difficult to be procured.—I am, sir, your obedient servant, ‘‘ January 21. “ Dough. “Put one handful of hops to three quarts of water, and let it boil two hours ; then strain the hops away, mixing a pint of flour with the liquor, and while hot a tea-cupful of moist sugar; let it staud and get luke- warm, then work it with a tea-cupful of yeast, stirring it often ; let it stand one day, and then put it into jars for use. “ Quantity—one quart of the above to one bushel of flour.” [The Times, January 21, 1850.] Artificial Yeast.—Mix two parts of fine flour of pale barley malt with one part of wheat flour ; stir fifty pounds of this mixture gradually into one hundred quarts of cold water, with a wooden spatula, till it forms a smooth pap. Put this pap into a copper over a slow fire ; stir it well till the temperature rise to fully 150° to 160°, when a partial formation of sugar will take place, but this sweetening must not be pushed too far ; turn out the paste into a flat cooler, and stir it from time to time. As soon as the wort has fallen to 5S° Fahr., transfer it to a tub, and add for every fifty quarts of it oue quart of good, fresh beer- yeast, which will throw the wort into brisk fermentation in the course of twelve hours. This preparation will be good yeast, fit for bakers’ and brewers’ uses, and will continue fresh and active for three days. It should be occasionally stirred.— Ure. Patent Yeast.—Boil six ounces of hops in three gallons of water for three hours; strain it off, and let it stand ten minutes; then add half a peck of ground malt, stir it well up, and cover it over; return the hops, and put the same quantity of water to them again, boiling them the same time as before, straining it off to the first mash; stir it up and let it remain four hours, then strain it off, and set it to work at 90y, with three pints of patent yeast. Let it stand about twenty hours; take the scum off the top, and strain it through a hair sieve ; it will then be fit for use. One pint is sufficient to make a bushel of bread.