193 HAMS, BACON, AND SALT MEAT. mode, in the following proportions:—Two pounds of salt; one ounce and a half of saltpetre; one ounce good moist sugar; rub in and turn, occasionally. Cooking Hams.—A ham of ten pounds should be boiled slowly, in a pot without a cover, and that for the space of nearly two and a half hour3. To ascertain if sufficieni ly boded, try if the skin wdl come readily off, and if so it is fit for use. Before sending it to table, the ham is generally subjected to a little ornamental dressing. We do not refer to the ornamenting and covering of the bone with a net or cut paper, but the browning where the skin has been removed. There are two ways of doing this. In tho one you cover the surface with bread-crumbs, and keep it in the oven until it attains the proper colour. In the other, you sprinkle sugar on the ham, and pass a red-hot iron over the surface, and thus impart to it that rich, glossy brown which so many admire. —Scottish Farmer. Soyer recommends that, in order to retain the juices in corned meat, when intended to be eaten cold, the joint should, when taken off the fire, be plunged into ice-water, or water as cold as can be procured. The Empress of Russia's Brine,—In Europe the Russian pork has a name for its goodness and quality, which is supposed to be owing to the pickle in which it is preserved. That named after the Empress is pre- pared as follows:—Boil together, over a slow fire, six pounds of common salt, two pounds of powdered loaf sugar, three ounces of saltpetre, and three gallons of water; skim it while boiling; and, when cold, pour it over the meat, every part of which must be covered with the brine. Small pork will be sufficiently cured in four or five days, and hams in- tended for drying, in two weeks. This pickle may be used frequently if boiled up, skimmed, and more ingredients used. Before putting the meat into the water, wash it well, and dry it. This pickle will efficiently cure hams and tongues, and any kind of salted provisions— ouly don’t keep it in brine too long ; whereas in the mild pickle, in the previous recipe, meat may be immersed for months. Pbeserving with Vinegar, Sugar, &c.—Vinegar dissolves or coagulates the albu- men of flesh, and thereby counteracts its putrescence. The meat should be washed, dried, and then laid in strong vinegar: or it may be boiled in the vinegar, allowed to cool in it, and then laid aside with it in a cool cellar, where it will keep sound for several months. Meat will also keep fresh for a considerable period when surrounded with oil, or fat of any kind, so purified as not to turn raucid of itself, especially if the meat be previously boiled. This process is called potting, and is applied successfully to fish, fowls, &c. Meat may be also preserved by boiling in its own gravy, or embedding in fat (“ Plowden’s Patent,” 1807), or in auimif jelly.—Ure. Mutton Hams.—^he Journal des Connoissances Usuelles gives the following method of curing mutton hams :—It is necessary that the mutton should be fat; it cannot be too much so. Two ounces of sugar must be mixed with an ounce of commou salt, and half a spoonful of saltpetre. The meat mast be well rubbed with this mixture, and then placed in a pan. It must be beatm and turned once a day for ten days, and then dried and smoked. Rashers cut thin, and served hot, will satisfy the palate of the most fastidious epicure; or the hams are first-rate cold, after having beeu previously simmered suffi :iently. As a general rule, never gallop any meat in b tiling water, unless you desire to make it tough, and utterly destroy the flavour of the joint. Trench hung Beef.—The bones are removed from the meat, nn,l it M