Till ADVERTISEMENTS. SAMPSON LOW, SON, & MAKSTON, ENGLISH, AMERICAN, & COLONIAL BOOKSELLERS AND PUBLISHERS, 14, LUDGATE HILL, LONDON, Execute Commissions in Books, Stationery, and all matters connected therewith, for shipment to any part of the world. Magazine Pajrcels forwarded by the speediest routes, and indents for Books, Sta- tionery, and General Merchandise attended to with promptitude and care. WORKS PUBLISHED BY SAMPSON LOW, SON, AND MANSION,’ 14, LUDGATE HILL. The Colony of Victoria: its History, Commerce, and Cold Mining; its Social and Political Institutions, down to the end of 1863. By William West- Garth. One vol., demy 8vo, pp. 620, cloth, 16s. “The author has produced a hook of first-rate excellence."—Australian and New Zealand Gazette. A History of the Discovery and Exploration of Australia ; or, an Account of the Progress of Geographical Discovery in that Continent, from the Earliest Period to the Present Day. By the Rev. Julian Edmund Woods, P.G.S., Author of “ Geological Observations on South Australia.” In two thick vols., demy 8vo, of about 900 pp. [I» the press—preparing for publication^] Tracks of McKinlay and Party across Australia. By John Davis, one of the Expedition. Edited from the MS. Journal of Mr. Davis, with an Introductory View of the recent Explorations of Stuart, Burke, Wills, Landsborougli, and others. By William Westgarth. With numerous Illustrations in chromo-lithography, and Map. 8vo, cloth, 16s. WORKS IN GENERAL LITERATURE SUITED FOR COLONIAL READING. A Walk from London to John O’Groat’s. With Notes by the Way, with Photographs. By Elihu Burritt. Post 8vo, cloth, price 12s. [This day. “Mr. Burritt has written a hook which, though addressed principally to his own countrymen, will not fail of readers on this side of the Atlantic.”—Athenceum. “ Admirably calculated for wiling away the tedium of a few dull hours.”—London Review. “ Both pleasant to the eyes and good to read.”—Illustrated News. “Heartily welcome are any of Elihu Burritt’s cheerful, pleasant words. ‘The learned blacksmith ’ is as much at home in England as in the country of which he is a native.”—The Patriot. “We cannot reproduce any of these beautiful musings without curtailing them, and that would be to spoil them.”—Nonconformist. N.B.—A new and cheap edition of this work will he ready for publication in September, price 6s. Her Majesty’s Mails: an Historical and Descriptive Account of the British Post Office. By William Lewins, Esq. Post 8vo, cloth, price 7s. 6d J [This day. “ As a history of the postal system, and a description of its present condition, Mr. Lewins’s book leaves little to desire.”—The Atheiueum, May 7th. . ... It should be put into the hands of every young Englishman and foreigner desiring to know how our institutions grow.”—The Reader, May 14th. “ It would be difficult to mention another book of the same size where an eqiiai ■amount of information and entertainment could be obtained.”—Illustrated Neies, May 14. “ The author has exhausted his subject, and all who wish for an able and carefully written history of the Post-office should peruse ‘ Her Majesty’s Mails.’ "—The Press. “ The publication ought to contest the palm of popularity with Mr. Dickens or Ju . Trollope.”—The Home News.