240 HEBREW REFECTION. white parts of the fowl must be pounded and sprinkled with flour or ground rice, and stirred in the soup after it has been strained, until it thickens. Matso Soup.—Boil down half a shin of beef, four pounds of gravy beef—and a calf’s foot may be added if approved—in four quarts of water , season with celery, carrots, turnips, pepper and salt, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Let the whole stew gently for eight hours, then strain, and let it stand to get cold, when the fat must be removed ; then return it to the saucepan to warm up. Ten minutes before serving throw in the balls from which the soup takes its name, and which are made in the following manner :—Take half a pound of matso flour, two ounces of chopped suet, season with a little pepper, salt, ginger, and nutmeg; mix with this four beaten eggs, aud make it into a paste ; a small onion shred and browned in a dessert-spoonful of oil. The paste should be made into rather large balls, and care should be taken to make them very light. Almondigos Soup.—Put a knuckle of veal and a calf’s foot into two quarts of water, with a blade of mace and a bunch of sweet herbs, a turnip, a little white pepper, and salt. When sufficiently done, strain and skim it, and add balls of forced meat and egg-balls. A quarter of an hour before serving beat up the yolks of four eggs, with a dessert-spoon- ful of lemon-juice, and three ounces of sweet almonds, blanched, and with, a spoonful of powdered white sugar. This mixture is to be beaten into the soup until it thickens, taking care to prevent its curdling. Sauce h la Tartare.—Mix the yolk of an egg with oil, vinegar, chopped parsley, mustard, pepper, and salt. A spoonful of pati de diable, or French mustard, renders the sauce more piquante. Egg Sauce.—A fine white sauce for boiled fowls, turkeys, or white fricassees:—Beat up the yolks of four eggs with the juice of a lemon, a- tea-spoonful of flour, and a little cold water ; mix well together, and set it on the fire to thicken, stirring it to prevent curdling. This sauce will be found excellent, if not superior, in many cases where English cooks use melted butter. If capers are substituted for the lemon-juice, this sauce will be found good both for boiled lamb or mutton. A Pish Sauce without Butter.—Put on in a small saucepan a cup of water well flavoured with vinegar, an onion chopped fine, a little rasped horseradish, pepper, and two or three cloves, and a couple of anchovies cut small. When it has boiled, stir carefully in the beaten yolks of two eggs, and let it thicken until of the consistency of melted butter. Pish Stewed White,—Put an onion, finely chopped, into a stew- pan, with a little oil. till the onion becomes brown ; then add half a pinb of water, and place the fish in the stewpan, seasoning with pepper, salt, and mace, ground allspice, nutmeg, and ginger; let it stew gently until the fish is done, then prepare the beaten yolks of four eggs, with the juice of two lemons, a tea-spoonful of flour, a table-spoonful of cold water,