220 TASMANIAN FISH. increase thy divine proportions—yet has not our Almanack—the Almanack des Gourmands —truly declared that the goose rejoiced amid all her tortures, because of the glory that, her awaited ? Did she not, in prophetic vision, bebold her enlarged and ennobled foie dilate into p(lUs and steam into sautis ?—the companion of truffles—the glory of made dishes, the delight, Die treasure, the transport of gourmands! Oh! exalted among birds !—apotheosised goose, did not thy heart exult even when thy liver parched and swelled within thee, from that most agonising death; and didst thou not, like the Indian at the stake, triumph in the very torments which could alone render thee illustrious ?—Pelham. XCVII—TASMANIAN FISH. One of the greatest curiosities here (Strashurg) is the fish market. The fish are offered to purchasers alive, being preserved in large water-tanks. I am assured that upwards of fifty kinds are occasionally exposed for sale, embracing every variety, from, a sprat to a sturgeon ! Mr. Mac acknowledged the thing was very pretty-looking. But for eating, God help him 1 he had no ambition. He was easily pleased. Give him a Galway turbot, a Boyne salmon, a Toone eel, or even a Ban trout, and he could live for a day or two with a Catholic family; but then he was no epicure. The fellow's intolerable. He hits me now and again, and prettyhard; and here he had me confoundedly. If Apicius himself were choosing a fish dinner, where could he match Mr. Mac Dermott’s selection ?—Grant’s “ Flood and Field.’’ The Derwent (Tasmania) teems with fish of the finest quality; in- deed, we question whether any river in the world surpasses it; and when the salmon is introduced—wrhich there is now every prospect of being carried to a successful issue—Apicius, or even Mr. Mac Dermott, might be easily pleased. Salt Water:— Trumpeter—weighing from lib. to 401bs.—We have elsewhere expatiated on this fish, which is superior to any in the adjacent colonies. The choicest are from six to eight pounds. Boiling is the course recommended. The belly part is almost too luscious for some palates, but to others is the epicurean tit-bit. Smaller fish fried are very good; and kippered a la salmon, it is an excellent relish. Bass Trumpeter, Jib. to 61bs.—This has no resemblance to the above ; it is, however, more plentiful; and the flesh is firm and good, either fried or boiled. The Jewish community buy large quantities of this fish, and, cooked in their peculiar way, it is excellent. Ling, lib. to 81bs.—By no means a common fish; but it more than equals its English namesake. Boiled, it eats firm, and cuts flaky, like the cod. Horse Mackerel, lib. to 41bs.—Good, but rather coarse; it has two sharp bony ridges on each side, for three ©r four inches from the tail; is marked with vivid blue stripes. We suspect it is a toneta. Mackerel—lib. to 21bs. Idas only recently been observed on the eastern coast. It is more like the English fish, and can be procured in large quantities; it is sold at mackerel price, “three a shilling.’' Good eating. Perch (black)—lib. to 81bs.) Choicest, three to four pounds. All very Perch (red)—Jib. to 51bs. >- handsome fish, plentiful, and good eating ; Perch (silver)—Jib. to 51bs._) but rather bony.