HEBREW REFECTION. 248 commercial importance in many parts of India. The Arabs are the greatest consumers of butter in the world. It is a common practice, among all classes to drink every morning a coffee-cupful of melted butter or ghee, and they use it in an infinite variety of ways. The taste for it is universal, and the poorest individuals will expend half their daily income that they may have butter for dinner and butter in the morning. Large quantities are annually shipped from Cessier, Souakin, aiM Massonah, on the west coast of the Red Sea, for Djidda, and other Arabian ports.—Burckhardi's Travels. Butter is the fatty matter of milk, several salts, and water. 'Ike butter exhts in the form of very small globules of nearly uniform size, quite transparent, and strongly refractive of light. Milk left in repose throws up the lighter particles of butter to the surface as cream. It was imagined that the butter was separated in the process of churning, in consequence of the milk becoming sour ; but this is not the case, for milk rendered alkaline by bicarbonate of potash affords its butter fully more readily than acidulous milk. The best temperature for churning milk or icrearn is 53° F.; that of 60° is too high, and under 50° it is too low.—Urc. Flattery at Meals.—So saying, my panegyrist took bis place right over against me, and a cover being laid for him, attacked the omelette as voraciously as if he had fasted three whole days. By his complaisant beginning, I foresaw that our dish would not last long, and therefore ordered a second, which was dressed with such di-patch that it was served up just as we—or rather he—had made an end of the first. He proceeded on with the same vigour, and found means, without, losing one stroke of liis teetji, to overwhelm me with praises during the whole repast, which made me very well pleased with my sweet self. He drank in proportion to bis eating, sometimes to my health, sometimes to that of my father and mother, whose happiness in haying such a son as I he could not enough admire. In the meantime he plied me with wine, and insisted upon my doing him justice, while I toasted health for health-a circumstance which, together with his intoxicating flatte.-y, put me in such good humour, that, seeing our second omelette half devoured, I asked the landlord if lie- had no fish in the house. Signor Corcuelo, who, in all likelihood, had a fellow-feeling for the parasite, replied, “ I have a delicate trout, but those who eat it must pay for the sauce; ’tis a hit too dainty for your palate, I doubt.” “Wnat do you call too dainty?” said the sycophant, raising his voice; “you're a wiseacre, indeed! Know that there is nothing in this house too good for Signor Gil Bias de Sautillane, who deserves to be entertained like a prince!”—Gil Bias' Adventures at Pennaflor. CIX—HEBREW REFECTION. For thou art a holy people unto the Lord thy God, and the Lord has chosen thee to be a peculiar people unto himself, above all the nations that are upon the earth. Thou shalt not eat any abominable thing. These are the beasts that ye shall eat: the ox, the sheep, and the goat.—Bant. xiv. 2, 3, 4, Palestine Soup,—Stew a knuckle of veal, a calf’s foot, one pound of cliorissa, and a large fowl, in four quarts of water; add a piece of fresh lemon-peel, six Jerusalem artichokes, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little salt and white pepper, a nutmeg, and a blade of mace. When the fowl is thoroughly done remove the white parts to preserve for thickening, and let the rest continue stewing till the stock is sufficiently strong. Ike