CONFECTIONERY. top of two eggs, and the juice of one lemon. Beat well for half an hour, and serve up, sprinkled with fancy biscuits. Ice Cream.—Put the cream into a pan, then stir in the sugar by degrees, and, when all is well mixed, strain it through a sieve ; put it into a tin that has a close cover, and set it in a tub. Fill the tub with ice broken in small pieces, and strew round the ice a quantity of salt, taking care that none of the salt gets to the cream. Scrape the cream down with a spoon, as it freezes round the edges of the tin ; while the cream is freezing stir in gradually the lemon-juice or the pulp of a pint of mashed straw- berries or raspberries. When it has frozen, dip the tin into lukewarm water, take out the cream, and fill the glasses. We liave given the above recipe; but, in preference, we recommend the freezing- vase, elsewhere alluded to, by Simpson; for he propounds, in a pamphlet, the different modes of making strawberry, raspberry, currant, pine apple, and lemon-ice creams, and the following water ices, viz., lemon, orange, pine apple, cherry, currant, straw- berry, raspberry, and vanilla. Were we to give these modes in detail, we almost fancy we should bring ourselves within the purview of the charge the celebrated Alabama is accused of—piracy. Devonshire Clouted Cream.—The milk, put into the pan one morn- ing, stands to the next; then set the pan on a hot hearth ; put this over a stove for about twenty minutes; it will be done when bladders rise on its surface. It must not boil, but be moved from the fire, and placed in a cool plate, when the cream is taken off the surface. The above is the celebrated Devonshire clouted cream, which has been rendered famous by one of Moore’s favourite songs being parodied in its praise:— “ The gems may be rich, and the gems may be rare; But this I solemnly do declare: There is nothing on earth, or in poets’ dreams. So rich and so rare as your Devonshire creams.” Clouted ok Clotted Cream. — The cream produced on the surface of milk, by s ;fating a pan of new milk on a hot hearth, is so named. It is chiefly used as a kind ot - ntremet, and when mixed with new milk, is eaten along with fruit pies, strawberries, raspberries, &C: It is also eaten without milk, and spread upon bread.—Brandt. Devonshire Junket.—Put lukewarm milk into a bowl, and turn if with rennet; then add some clouted cream, sugar, and cinnamon on the top, without breaking the curd ; then drain the milk, and add a little wine or brandy. When turned, put sugar and nutmeg on the top, and serve. Icing for Cakes.— Take one pound of sugar ; put into a pan •, break in the whites of six eggs, and as much powder blue as will lie on a sixpence ; beat it well with a wooden spoon for ten minutes, then squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and beat it till it becomes transparent. Set the cake you intend to ice in an oven or warm place for five minutes ; then sproad over the mixture as smooth as possible. A plain ice, or ornament the cake with fancy articles of any description. Gorstorphine Cream,—Corstorphine cream is called from a village of that name near Edinburgh ; it is made by putting the milk of three or four days together, with the cream, into a vessel, and allowing it to remain