rUDDINGS AXD TIES. 55 pound, of sugar, six spoonfuls of potato flour, foui yolks of eggo ; dilute the flour with the eggs and cream 5 add a piece of butter the size of an e*a. and a little lemon-peel; put this mixture on the fire; let it boil a few minutes stirring it ; allow it to cool ; then add six yolks, of eggc, beat all together, whisk the whites of four eggs, mix them quickly and lightly with the rest ■, put all in a pan and bake , seive quickly. °Mannum-bonum plums are only fit for tarts and sweetmeats. Magnum is right enough; but as to bonum, the word is completely misapplied.— Cobbett. Cheesecakes.—Put two quarts of new milk into a stewpan, set it near the fire, and stir in two table-spoonfuls of rennet, or less quantity of the patent rennet; let it stand until set—this will take about an hour. Break it well when set, pour off the whey, and put the curd to drain ; when dry add four ounces of sugar, three ounces of butter, to be oiled; stir them well together; beat the yolks of four eggs in a basin, with a little nutmeg grated, lemon-peel, and a glass of brandy ; add this to the curd, and stir well together. Line tins with paste, and bake. Cheesecakes —Chrysippus of Tyana, in his hook entitled “The Art of Making Bread ” enumerates the following species and genera of cheesecakes The terentinum, the crassianum thetulianum, the sahelliciun, the clustron, the jnlianum, the apicianum, the canopiciun, the pelucidiun, the cappodocimn, the tnbybiuip, the maryptum, the plicium the guttatum, the montiannm. “This last," he says, “yon will soften with sour wine, and if von have any cheese you may mash the montiannm up half with wine and half with cheese, and so it will he more palatable." Then there is the clustrum tabonianum. There are also inustacia made with mead, mustacia made with sesame, ernstnm puricum, gosgloanium, and paulianum. A.tlicnccus3 ti&nsl&tcdiby Yonfjc. Lemon, orange, and almond cheesecakes may be made in a similar way, only using those fruits more largely; and the almonds must he well pounded. College Puddings.—Beat up four eggs with two ounces of flour, a little nutmeg and ginger, and three ounces of white sugar. Beat to a batter, then add six ounces of suet, chopped fine, six of currants, well washed and cleaned, with a glass of white wine or brandy. Bake in an oven or patty-pan, or they are good boiled, served with wine sauce. Baked Eice Pudding.—Boil six ounces of rice, and, when done, put it in a dish, and pour on it a well-made custard, and bake quickly in an oven. Sago, Arrowroot, and Ground Eice Puddings.—These are excel- lent cold in summer, boiled in milk and run into shapes, sweetened and ilavoured. Serve with cAd custards, cream, or preserves of any kind. TJre writes that the uses of arrowroot are well known and acknowledged. It is the most elegant and richest of all the feculas. Liebig places the powers of arrowroot, as a nutriment to man, in a remarkable point of view, when he states that fifteen pounds of flesh contain no more carbon for supplying animal heat, by its combustion into carbonic acid, than four pounds of starch. Moost Aye ; Save-all Pudding or Pie.—Put scraps of bread in a saucepan, with a little milk; then break in three eggs, three ounces of sugar, a little nutmeg, ginger, and allspice, and stew well together. This pudding may be either boiled or baked ; a few currants are an improve- ment.