THE COOK. 37 -oarly, and on no account take snuff, neither must she be seen with a pipe (if Irish), or indulge to excess in gin or beer, nor have any followers in the shape of cousins of the masculine gender. What is she to do under the circumstances ? Pack up her traps, without delay, and slope for the colonies, where she will be better paid, better fed, better treated, have tea three times per diem, and find a husband very soon after she arrives! Apropos of a cook’s great qualification, according to M. Brillat Saver in, and of every master and mistress who can pay the wages of one:— Aphorism.—Of all the qualities of a coolc the most indispensable is punctuality; and there is another essential that must never be lost sight of—that of cleanliness, which Scripture authority tells us is next to godliness. In 1842, a poor fellow was taken before tlie authorities of Paris for begging in the street. He had studied the science of cookery under the celebrated Catenae, and was the inventor of the delicious saumons truffes a la broche: he attributed his poverty to the decline of cookery from a science to a low art! We remember to have read that cooks, in nine cases out of ten, after ministering to the luxury of the opulent, creep into holes and comers, and pass neglected out of the world.—Hints for the Table. A Cooks’ Refuge.—Why not organise an asylum for decayed cooks of good character P We are quite willing to contribute a large number of copies of this work for their benefit; but the only drawback to that offer might be that they would realise nothing. To show the rate of wages in England, we have extracted the following advertisements from late numbers of the London Daily Telegraph and Morning Star newspapers :— WANTED, a COOK, about twenty-five years of age, in a family, twenty miles from London. Must understand Baking and Dairy. Wages £14, everything found.— Address prepaid, stating all particulars, to A. M., care of Mr. Young, Baker, Pore Street, Upper Edmonton, Middlesex, N. WANTED, a GENERAL SERVANT, in a private family, a few miles from town; must be active and cleanly, and have good testimonials. Wage's £8.—Apply at .247, High Street, Poplar. NURSERY GOVERNESS.—a situation as NURSERY GOVERNESS, in London, WANTED, by a young lady, aged eighteen. Can teach French perfectly, the piano, drawing, and is a good needlewoman. As it would be her first situation, she would accept £12 per annum and laundry expenses.—Address Ruth, Post-office, Sussex Place, Hyde Park. , WANTED, IN-DOOR PORTER. Wages £12 per annum.—Apply, after three o’clock in the afternoon of this day, to Mr. Garrard, Laceman, 56, Westbourne Grove, Bayswater. Tee Cook and the Doctor.—If the administration of animal food, in a wholesome and agreeable form, is like life from the dead, how long shall any of the homes of England be without it ? There will be good meals in every house when there is a good cook there. If we cannot rut good dinners upon all tables, we may proceed a long way towards putting a cook into every house in England. Let us have a kitchen attached to every girls’ school, and schools for cookery in every town, and the nation will be nearer than it has ever been yet to being well fed, which is the same thing as saying that the children will grow up well, the men and women will wear well, and tlie aged will go down to their graves in comfort. This will not be disputed by doctor or nurse, gentle or simple; and if it be true, almost everybody may save and fortify life by teaching, or getting taught to one or more future wife, mistress, or maid, the simple, ploasant, -and inestimable art of spreading the household table.—Harriet Martincau.