* GAME. 85 VI. Rammel, of Paris, stating that Prince Napoleon was desirous of stocking his estate it Mendon with kangaroo; and another communication was received from M. Rufy de . Lawson, director of the Acclimatisation Garden of the Bois de Boulogne, suggesting a ,shipment of kangaroo, as they would fetch £10 per pair at Paris. While we are penning ;hese remarks, a vessel, the Racer, has just left Launceston in Tasmania for New Zea- ■ and, with the following, as part of her cargo:—12 kangaroos, 12 dogs, 24 cats, 42 horses, 150 pigs, 400 fowls, 100 ducks, 100 geese, 100 turkeys, 4 peacocks, eggs, potatoes, hay, oatmeal, bricks, and timber. The Emeu.—The Emeu is peculiar to Australia. Eor a long period, and even to the present time, this bird has been called “the New Holland Cassowary,” hut we consider the name of “Emeu ” to apply exclusively to the New Holland bird. We have, there- fore, the cassowaries of the Asiatic Islands and of New Britain, a supposititious species in New Holland, and the emeu, confined solely to the Australian continent. The emeu crops herbage, like the cow or the horse, and feeds upon various fruits. The flesh is eaten by the settlers, and by some is preferred to the kangaroo; the rump part is con- sidered as delicate as fowl, the legs coarse, like beef, but tender when the animal is young. The fibulas of the legs are used as ornaments by the blacks. The best time to hunt these birds is at an early hour in the morning, when they are seen cropping the tender grasses. They are swift of foot; but as soon as the dogs reach them, which is not until they are completely tired out, they are speedily overthrown and killed.— “ Gatherings of a Naturalist in Australia,” by Bennett. Jugged Hare or Kangaroo,—Cut the hare or kangaroo into pieces; then cut up a pound of bacon into small squares, and fry it in a pan for five minutes; then add the hare or kangaroo, and stir them in a stewpan until a little brown; then add some flour, pepper, allspice, onions, and a little winter savory. Moisten the stew with a pint of stock, and allow it to simmer for half an hour. Serve with currant jelly and sharp sauce. Venison or Kangaroo Hashed.—Cut the meat in slices. Put it in a stewpan, with a small quantity of stock gravy, a gill of port wine, a : table-spoonful of ketchup, some lemon, with salt and cayenne in modera- tion. Let it simmer. Serve in a hot dish—silver, pewter, or crockery, according to your circumstances. Serve with currant jelly sauce. Eoast Wombat {Tasmania).—This animal feeds on grass and roots, and its flesh is eaten roasted; some persons like its flavour, others, again, decry it. It is also cooked in steaks. Native porcupines are cooked in a like way. A friend, and an author, too, writes:—“ A pleasant and grateful impression on my memory has a roasted porcupine, which I breakfasted on, on the top of a mountain near the Big Lagoon, in Tasmania, about five-and-thirty years ago; and, if any epicure will hunt kangaroo on foot for two days fasting, and then try a roasted porcupine on a frosty morning, he will very likely have discovered a new pleasure.” Mutton Birds (Bass's Straits).—These birds are procured in great numbers in the Straits, b~ the sealers, and are salted for use, but we can’t say we should like them as a relish. The eggs are good, and largely used, and the feathers are made into beds of rather a fishy odour. The Mutton Bird.—I found that nothing had been done, as all the natives were away miitton-cirdmg on the islands in the straits. The mutton bird (tcc-te) is a species of pulfin, that builds m holes in sand-banks on sea-girt islands. They are very fat and rich, and greatly prized as food by the Maoris, who preserve them in groat numbers by salting and smoking them, trading any surplus they obtain, beyond what is necessary for their own consumption, *o the natives farther to the northwards, in which case they are packed m bagn ma^de of kilp. The mutton-bird harvest is therefore of great importance to them, and the first party of natives had only just returned from it, reporting that they bad this year been very unsuccessful, and the remainder of those belonging to this kaiyk woukl arrn-o in a few days.-Extract from, Dr. Hector’s “ Geological Expedition to the West Coast of Otago.