GAME. 86 Pan Jam.—This dish used to be made from kangaroo tails. Roast them in the ashes with the skin on. When nearly done, scrape them well, and divide at the joints. Then put them into a pan, with a few slices of fat bacon, to which add a few mushrooms, pepper, &c. Fry gently, and serve. First-rate tack. The flesh of the boomah (kangaroo) is extremely tough and coarse-grained; but, nevertheless, is full of rich brown gravy, and certainly makes most delicious soup ; so does its nether appendage, which, from its containing a considerable quantity of glutinous matter, bears a great resemblance to, but far outrivals in quality, the cele- brated ox-tail.—“ Thirty-three Years in Tasmania and Victoria,” by Lloyd. The tail of the forest kangaroo in particular makes a soup which, both in richness nnd flavour, is far superior to any ox-tail soup ever tasted.—Wentworth’s “New South Wales." i Slippery Bob.—Take kangaroo brains, and mix with flour and water, and make into batter; well season with pepper, salt, &c. ; then pour a table-spoonful at a time into an iron pot containing emeu fat, and take them out when done. “ Bush fare,” requiring a good appetite and excellent digestion. The above dishes of pan jam and slippery bob were supplied by an “ old hand” of Tasmania, for “ new chums” of thirty years' standing never heard of these dishes, much less have partaken of them. Bush Cookery.—Here I was first initiated into the bush art of “sticker-up” cookery, and for the benefit of all who go “ a-gipsying,” I will expound the mystery. The orthodox material here is of course kangaroo, a piece of which is divided nicely into cutlets, two or three inches broad and a third of an inch thick. The next requisite is a straight clean stick, about four feet long, sharpened at both ends. On the narrow part of this, for the space of a foot or more, the cutlets are spitted at intervals, and on the end is placed a piece of delicately rosy fat bacon. The strong end of the stick-spit is now stuck fast and erect in the ground, close by the fire, to leeward, care being taken that it does not bum. Then the bacon on the summit of the spit, speedily softening in the genial blaze, drops a lubricating shower of rich and savoury tears upon the leaner kangaroo cutlets below, which forthwith frizzle and steam and sputter with as much ado as if they were illustrious Christmas beef grilling in some London chop-house under the gratified nose of the expectant consumer. “And, gentlemen,” as dear old Hard- castle would have said, if he had dined with us in the bush, “ to men that are hungry, stuck-up kangaroo and bacon are very good eating.” Kangaroo is, in fact, very like hare.—Mrs. Meredith’s “ Rome in Tasmania.” Beef or mutton cooked in this manner, at a pic-nic, would be a good dish for such a party. Oanvas-back Ducks.—The fame of the canvas-back ducks of America, fed on the wild parsley grown in Chesapeake Bay, has reached all parts of the world. In delicacy of flavour and richness of flesh they are said to have no equals in the “ wide, wide world.” We can give no special directions for then’ cookery, and we may presume that, like beauty unadorned, they require no additions, but are simply served up hot, in their own “ natural aroma,” to borrow the expressive observation of Lady Morgan. Swainson is very eulogistic on the canvas-back duck, and describes it as the ortolan of the duck family, and the turtle of the swimming birds. Ortolans.—These birds are of a scarce kind. They are procurable in Belgium, but are found occasionally in England. When sufficiently fat for eating, they must not be bruised in their death, but very delicately handled. The feathers must be picked with great care and attention.