FISH. 95 whale can scarcely be distinguished from beef-steak.—Symington’s “Pen and Pencil 'Sketches of Faroe and Iceland.’’ Salmon Outlets.—Salmon cutlets are dressed somewhat a la Main- tenon, as follows : cut them in slices, rub them with salad oil, and season with cayenne pepper and salt; wrap them in paper, and fry in boiliug fat. When nearly done, lay them in their paper shrouds, on a gridiron, to dry ; or place them in a hot oven for a similar purpose. Caper sauce is a superior sort of accompaniment to any kind of fish. Crayfish.—Boil, in a pint of milk, two blades of mace, one onion, sliced, cayenne, and salt, with lemon, a little butter and flour, and a gill of cream, and serve with crayfish. This was considered a rechercM dish at a mayor’s feast in Tasmania. The Austrian trout, bred in the rivulets of the Alps, are very good. They are served i either fried or boiled, and when in good condition have the firmness of the white of an egg. Trout are excellent slit open, and sprinkled with cayenne and salt, and broiled for i breakfast. Cold fish may be dressed as a salad, or the fillets may be warmed with white sauce for a side-dish. A fish omelette, well made, is excellent fare. Perch are delicate and easy of digestion, either in water souchet or fried in batter. They are recommended to invalids who have debilitated stomachs. Herrings.—The flesh of herrings is so delicate that no cook should attempt to dress them otherwise than by broiling or frying. Let the ! herring be placed upon the gridiron, over the clearest of fires, and when ; sufficiently embrowned, let him instantly be transferred to the hottest of plates; eat him with mustard sauce, in the kitchen if you can. The male or soft-roed herring is always the best, when in proper season.— iHints for the Table. It is not, therefore, improbable, that certain cutaneous diseases may be produced, or at least aggravated, by fish diet; and, in hot countries, this effect may be questionable. The priests of Egypt may, therefore, have been prohibited from eating fish, upon just principles, in order that the leprosy might be averted ; and the great legislator of the Jews was, no doubt, influenced by some such belief when he framed his celebrated pro- hibition, Lev. xi. 9—12.—Paris on Diet. Caviare, the prepared roe of the sturgeon. Caviare is made and consumed largely in Russia, and exported to all parts of the world, less to England than elsewhere. The membranes of the roe being removed, the grains are washed in vinegar, dried in the air, salted, and packed. It is- eaten raw, with oil and lemon-juice. Caviare has a bitter taste, and is by no means palatable : having partaken of it once, we have no desire to repeat the dose; nor should we recommend it to the reader. Caviare was used as a luxury in the time of Charles II., and it is one of the most valu- of Russian exports, the sales reaching nearly two millions sterling. There is no accounting for tastes in the appreciation of caviare, as it is oily and indigestible According to Brande, on the Continent a kind of caviare is made of the hard roe of the which is considered equal in flavour to the sturgeon, and finds favour in the eyes oi tne Jews, who reject caviare made from the sturgeon, which, being a fish without scales, is forbidden by the Levitical law, and is consequently an abomination to all true Israelites. To Boil Tiybot. Soak the fish in cold water a couple of hours before you dress it, with some salt in it; then score the skin across the back. Rut a handful ot salt into a fish-kettle with cold water, lay your fish on. n strainer, and when coming to the boil, skim it well. Then set the