169 EGGS. of tlie eggs. For the same reason do not use a metal egg-heater. In heating them do not move the elbow, but keep it close to the side. Move only the hand at the wrist, and let the stroke be quick, short, and horizontal; putting the egg-beater always down to the bottom of the pan, which should therefore be shallow. Do not leave off as soon as the eggs are in a foam—they are then only beginning to be light—but persist till after the foaming has ceased, and the bubbles have all disappeared. Continue till the surface is as smooth as a mirror, and the beaten egg is thick as a rich boiled custard; for till then it will not be really light. When white of egg is to be used without any yolk, it should be beaten till it stands alone on the rods, not falling when held up.”—Leslie’s “ Confectioner.” Boiled Eggs.—Put the eggs into boiling water, and let them take about three minutes. They are said to be good for clearing the voice. Poached Eggs.—Tins is a very difficult operation in cookery. It has been said that one of the London clubs in want of a cook, put the first preliminary question—“Can you boil a potato?” But a more proper query would be—can you poach eggs properly ? To proceed—put in a stewpan a pint of water, with half a table-spoonful of salt, and three of vinegar; when simmering break in the eggs, and let them remain until the yolk is set. Serve on toast or spinach. If the cook cannot do this well, he had better have recourse to a tin stand, which contains a recep- tacle for each egg, and the stand is immersed in the pan containing boiling water until the egg is sufficiently done. The lightest mode of preparing eggs for the table is to boil them only as long as is necessary to coagulate slightly the greater part of the white without depriving the yolk •of its fluidity.—Dr. Pearson’s “ Mat Alim.” Eggs Dressed with Oil.—This is by far the most simple way of dressing eggs, and the most nutritious. Pour into a Dutch oven or cheese-toaster two table-spoonfuls of salad oil. Break the eggs into the tin, which ought to take out, and when the yolk is set send up the tin, with the eggs in it, hot. Fried Eggs.—Break the eggs into a pan with boiling fat, and spoon some fat over them ; mind the yolks are not done hard. The egg, as a whole, is richer in fat than beef. It is equalled in this respect, among common kinds of food, only by pork and by eels. The white of the egg is, however, entirely free from fat; and it is a very constipating variety of animal food, so that it requires much fat to be eaten along with it when consumed in any quantity, in order that this quality may be counteracted. It is, no doubt, because experience has long proved this, in the stomachs of the people, that “eggs and bacon ” have been a popular dish among Gentile nations from time immemorial.—J. F. W. Johnston. Eggs au Miroir.—Spread a piece of butter upon a dish that can be set on the fire, break the eggs over it, adding salt, pepper, and two spoon- fuls of milk; place it on a slow fire, with a red-hot shovel over it, and serve when the egg3 are set. Eggs il l’Ardennaise.—Beat to a froth the whites of six eggs which have been seasoned as for an omelette, pour this froth into a buttered baking-tin, and pour across it four spoonfuls of cream, dropped into it at equal distances, the yolks whole; bake, but not too briskly, and serve. Eggs for Salad.—Eggs for salad require to boil for six minutes, and, when done, put them into cold water to harden.