FISH OF NEW SOUTH WALES. 232 Mackerel (salt water)—lib. to Slbs. Ditto. Guardfish „ —2ozs. to 41b. Good when young. Jewfish „ —51bs. to 151bs. Very good eating. Fiathead „ —3lbs. to lOlbs. Ditto. Mullet „ —Jib. to 61b. Ditto. Black-fisb (salt and fresh water)—8ozs. to 141b. Not equal to other fish; taste muddy. Oysters—unlimited supplies; consumption enormous. Crabs—all sizes and weights—say J-lb. to 31bs. Good eating. Crayfish ditto ditto. Shrimps and Prawns—very delicate. Cockles and Whelks. Soles (salt water)—2ozs. to 41b. Good eating. Flounders „ ,, Ditto. Always in season. Murray River Cod fish (fresli-water)—21bs. to 201bs. Very good eating. Always in season. ditto. Dr. Bennett, at the last meeting of the Acclimatisation Society, at Sydney, in New South Wales, read some notes on the river cod and perch, which we have con- densed. The river cod, or cod perch (gristcs Peelii), is justly esteemed as a well-flavoured and delicate fish, and certainly merits to be the first of the Australian fishes. He had seen the river cod very plentiful in the Yass, Tamut, and Murmmbidgee rivers—more so in the last—and they are known to exist in all rivers of the eastern and western ranges. It is a voracious fish. Their average length is nineteen inches, and the weight from three to eight pounds; and they are often taken from two and a half to three feet in length, and weighing from twenty to twenty-five pounds. Some have been taken from forty to seventy pounds, and one was reported as weighing one hundred and twenty pounds! The fish is named by the natives of the Murrumbidgee, mewuruk. In the stomachs of those he had an opportunity of examining, he observed species of shell- fish of the genus unis, or fresh-water mussel—a large and small kind; also a large spe- cies of river lobster (astacus), called muvgula by the Aborigines. In the Turmut country there are supposed to be varieties of the river cod, named by the blacks bewuck and mutt gee. The river cod may be heard at night splashing and running about in the water frequented by them, but they are rarely seen in the daytime. He had no doubt that there are many fresh-water fishes inhabiting the rivers of Australia known but to a few, but which will, when tried, be found valuable as food. There was another fish caught in the Yass and other large rivers, called perch by the colonists, and kupe by the aborigines, and it was of excellent flavour, but not so delicate as the river cod. Eels—41b. to 61bs. Rock Cod (salt water)—lib. to 61bs. Murray River Cod Percb—4ozs. to 41bs. Ichthyological.—We have been shown one of a number of pretty fish, diminutive in size, being not more than three inches long, that have been caught in the chain of ponds near the Yass on the road to Gunning. They have no resemblance to the cod or perch which are the inhabitants of the Yass and Murrumbidgee rivers. In the specimen we cun trace no dorsal fin, and the body is broader and flatter than those of the fish we have spoken of. In appearance it recalls to our mind the bream of the “old country.”— Yass Courier. New Fish.—At a recent meeting of the Philosophical Society of New South Wales, Mr. Krefft read a paper describing a new fish in the Hawkesbury River, belonging-to tho genus thcrapon, named Pitt’s perch (Therapon Pittii, Kr.), a specimen being exhibited:— “ This fine fish abounds in the Hawkesbury and its tributaries ; it is also found in many of the lasroons of the Richmond district. The Australian Museum is indebted to Mr. George Pitt, jun., for some very fine specimens of this delicious fish, which I have named in honour of my friend, who informs me that this perch is found in every part of the Nepean and Hawkesbury above Windsor. It has been caught ns heavy as Mbs. in weight. It may be caught with hook and line. With regard to the tasto of t-tus fish, I can bear witness that its flesh is excellent, far superior to the much-talked-of Murray