DRINKS. ■2S2 liquor, and a piece of toast put in it. A napkin is placed on the handle of the cup, to be used as described by Mr. Fairholt. A very agreeable beverage is made by mixing seltzer-water with Bordeaux too, a little lemon-juice, and sugar. Brandy.—The spirituous liquor, obtained by the distillation of wine; when pure it is perfectly colourless, and only acquires a pale brown or yellow tint from the cask. T he? deep colour of common brandy, intended to imitate that which it acquires from great age in the cask, is generally given by the addition of burnt sugar. The average proportion of alcohol in brandy varies from forty-eight to fifty-four per cent. The best brandy is made in France, the preference being given to that shipped from Cognac. The imports of brandy for home consumption amount to about 1,400,000 gallons a-year; but there can be no doubt that the quantity would be much larger, were it not for the oppressive duty of 15s. per gallon, re- duced by Sir R. Peel from 22s. Gd., with which it is charged.—Braude's “Dictionary of Science." Ruin.—A spirituous liquor distilled from the fermented juice of the " sugar-cane, or from molasses. Its flavour is due to the presence of a peculiar volatile oil; its average proportion of alcohol fluctuates between fifty and fifty-six per cent. The rum consumed in the United Kingdom is entirely the produce of the West Indies, and to a great extent of Jamaica; and for this preference it is indebted partly to its superior quality, and partly to its being protected against rum of East India produce, by a differential duty of 6s. per gallon, that on East India rum being 15s. per gallon. The quantity entered for home consumption for the year 1839-40, averaged 2,670,515 gallons; the duty on it for the three years 1837-39, averaged £1,372,540 ; and in 1840, the gross amount was £1,154,544. The consumption of rum in this country has long been gradually declining.—Ibid. Gin (Fr. Genievre, Juniper).—Ardent spirit flavoured by the essential oil of juniper. It was originally made by the Dutch, and is hence distin- guished in this country by the name of Hollands. The liquor bearing the above name in this country is of British manufacture, and rendered biting on the palate by caustic potash. In Holland the finest gin bears the name of Schiedam, the principal place of its manufacture, and where there are many distilleries. Owing to the excessive duty (15s. per gallon), gin is one of the principal articles of clandestine importation.— Ibid. McCulloch writes that English gin is said to be one of the most wholesome spirits. Whisky.—A spirit obtained by distillation from corn, sugar, or molasses, though generally from the former. It is extensively used and manufactured in Scotland and Ireland.— Ure. Geneva.—A grain spirit flavoured with juniper-berries, manufactured exclusively in Holland; hence it is frequently called Hollands. Gin is manufactured in London and other places, and flavoured generally with