XLIX.-TEA. Now stir tlie tire, anil close the shutter fast. Let fall the curtains, wheel the sofa round; And while the bubbling and loud-hissing urn Throws up a steamy column, and the cups That cheer but not inebriate wait oh each. So let us welcome peaceful evening in.—Coviper. There are two varieties, viz., the the a nigra (black), and thea viridis (green). Brande writes, that tea, taken in moderation, especially as we use the infusion, with sugar and milk, is strengthening and invigorating ; it also appears to possess certain stimulating and narcotic properties. The black kinds appear the most wholesome, and the finest kind we ever drank was scented Souchong. M‘-Culloch asserts that tea is a narcotic, as much so as even opium, but that it is the least pernicious of all nar- cotics. It is a favourite beverage with Englishmen both at home and abroad ; but it must not be indulged in to excess, as it produces watch- fulness, and is hurtful to the nerves. Green tea in the morning is slightly injurious, and must not be taken by hypochondriacal or hysterical persons. The way it is prepared for use is simply to pour boiling water on the leaves, and not allow it to stand too long. Never pour water on the leaves a second time; if you want more tea, use a second teapot. Newn- ham, on the “ Medicinal and Dietetic Property of Tea,” maintains, that in a state of sthenic excitement of the brain and nervous system—as that produced by alcoholic stimulants, or by intense and long-continued appli- cation of the mind to any particular object of literary research—tea will act as a remedy ; whereas, on the contrary, in cases of diminished excite- ment, morbid vigilance and nervous disturbance will follow its potation. Swift tells us, to such an extent is modern epicurism carried, that the world must be encompassed before a washerwoman can sit down to breakfast; while Cobbett exclaims. The drink which has come to supply the place of beer has, in general, been tea. It is notorious that tea has no useful strength in : t; it contains nothing nutritious; it is known to produce want of sleep, and to weaken the nerves.” According to a late letter from the Times' correspondent in India, we are soon to be supplied with tea largely from that part of the empire. Black is the natural colour of the tea plant. The preparation of green tea is made in this wise:—It is brought to Canton and other towns unprepared, as Bohea (sansZnnitj'), and is thrown into a hemi- spherical iron pan, kept hot. The leaves are constantly stirred till they are thoroughly heated, when they are dyed, by adding to each pound of tea one spoonful of gypsum, one of turmeric, and two or three of Prussian blue. The leaves instantly change info a blueish green, and, after being well stirred for a few minutes, are taken out, being shrivelled by the heat. They are now sifted ; the small, longisli leaves fall through the