ADVERTISEMENTS. X TASMANIA: MESSRS. WALSH & CO., HOBART TOWN & LAUNCESTON. CASSELL’S POPULAR HAND-BOOKS. 12mo, cloth, Is. each. Amusing and Instructive Experiments; containing an endless variety of Winter Evening Amuse- ments for Youth. “Will be unacceptable present to an Ingenious boy.”—Spectator. Book-keeping, by Single and Double Entry. Ruled Acount Books to ditto, extra, Is. 6d. each set. “Avery handy little work.”—Brighton Gazette. Business; a Dictionary of the Terms and Technicalities used in Commerce, and Tables of Foreign Moneys, Weights and Measures. “Exceedingly useful to every one ■desirous of knowing exactly what the various terms employed in business re- present.”—News and Bankers’ Journal. Chess and Draughts ; containing a clear exposition of the Games, Laws of Chess, Technical Terms, Advice to Young Players, &c.; with an account of the different Openings and Endings of Games, &c. “ A most useful little manual.”—Edin- burgh News. Civil Service; being a complete Guide to the Examinations for the Appointments to the various Departments in the Civil Service. How to Colour a Photo- graph in Oil or Water. It contains all the information necessary to acquire proficiency in the art of Colouring Photographs in Oil or Water, on Paper or Glass, together with a list of the pigments used, them method of preparation, &c. &c. Investments; a Complete Account of the Public Securities, Rail- way Shares, Foreign Stocks, and other means of Investment, Explanatory and Statistical, with Information to the latest date. Letter Writing; with Hints on Composition and Style, and Fac-similes of Handwriting, including models of the Style required in the Civil Service. Natural Philosophy; being a Popular Guide to Physical and Ex- perimental Philosophy, from the sim- plest Elements to the Phenomena of Electricity and Magnetism. With Eighty Wood Engravings. Domestic Pecipes; in- cluding Cookery, and a variety of valuable and interesting information. Elocution and Oratory ; being a systematic Compendium of the necessary Rules for attaining pro- ficiency in Reading and Speaking. Emergencies; containing Hints and Cautions to those engaged in Dangerous Occupations, and to Sufferers by the common Casualties of Life. Etiquette ; being a com- plete Guide to the Usages of Polite Society. Gardening. By George Glenny. A Guide to the Cultivation of Fruits, Vegetables, and Flowers. Especially adapted for Amateurs. Plealth and Physiology. Containing the Best Rules for the Preservation of Health, with a Popu- lar Description of the variousfunctions of the Human Body as affecting its General Health. Our Domestic Pets ; con- taining Descriptive Notices of fa- vourite Birds and other Animals, the Mode of Preserving them in Health, &c. Photography. Will be found invaluable; containing a com- plete system of instruction in the art of taking pictures by means of light, including descriptions of all the various processes in use, the best method of performing, the causes of failure, &c. Railway Situations ; in- cluding the complete System of Rail- way Accounts and Returns, to which are added valuable Hints on Commer- cial Employments generally. LONDON: CASSELL, PETTER, AND GALPIN, LA BELLE SAUVAGE YARD, LUDGATE HILL, E.C. AUSTRALIA: MESSRS. ROBERTSON & CO., MELBOURNE.