251 HEBREW REFECTION. down with coarse brown paper, and let it remain all the night and tho next day (until required) in a baker’s oven; when done, take out the basin containing the pudding, and skim the fat from the gravy, which must be served with soup. The meat, &c., is extremely savoury and nutritious, but it is not a very seemly dish for table. The pudding must be turned out of the basin; and a sweet sauce, flavoured with lemon and brandy, is a fine addition. Salmon Pie.—Cut two pounds of fine fresh salmon in slices, about three-quarters of an inch thick, and set them aside on a dish ; clean and scrape five or six anchovies, and halve them ; then chop a small pottle of mushrooms, a handful of fresh parsley, a couple of shalots, and a little green thyme. Put these together into a saucepan, with three ounces of butter, a little pepper, salt and nutmeg, and tarragon ; add the juice of a lemon, and half a pint of good brown gravy; and let the whole simmer, stirring it gently all the time: also slice six eggs boiled hard ; then line a pie-dish with short paste, and fill it with alternate layers of the slices of salmon, hard eggs, and fillets of anchovies, spreading between each layer the herb sauce ; then cover the dish with the paste, and bake in a moderately-heated oven. Sour-krout.—Boil about seven or eight pounds of beef, either brisket or a fillet off the shoulder, in enough water to cover it. When it has boiled for an hour, add as much sour-krout as may be approved; it should then stew gently for four hours, and be served in a deep dish. The Germans are not very particular in removing the fat, but it is more deli- cate to do so. Scalloped Fish.—Break the fish into pieces; pour over the beaten yolk of an egg ; sprinkle with pepper and salt; strew with bread crumbs, chopped parsley, and grated lemon-peel; and squeeze in the juice of a lemon. l)rop over a little warmed butter, and brown before the fire. Smoked Beef.—As there are seldom conveniences in private kitchens for smoking meats, it will generally be the best and cheapest plan to have them ready prepared for cooking. All kinds of meat, smoked and salted, are to be had in great perfection at all the Hebrew butchers. Chorissa.—That most refined and savoury of all sausages is to be procured at the same places. It is not only excellent fried in slices with poached eggs, or stewed with rice, but imparts a delicious flavour to stews, soups, and sauces, and is one of the most useful resources of the Jewish kitchen. Impanada.—Cut in small pieces, halibut, plaice, or soles; place them in a deep dish, in alternate layers, with slices of potatoes and dumplings made of short crust paste, sweetened with brown sugar, seasoned well with Small pickles, pepper, gherkins, or West India pickles; throw over a little water or butter, warmed, and bake it thoroughly. Kinsmil Meat.—Place a email piece of the rump of beef, or the