23 MADE DISHES. chickens, or something of the kind—which, with a dolcc, or sweet, completed the repast. Several sorts of wine, the produce of last year’s vintage, were produced by Signor Bonaventura. The dessert consisted of oranges, peaches, grapes, figs, and a melon—considering how far the autumn was advanced—was wonderful for even Italy, and bore witness to the mildness of the temperature.—“ Three Days in an Italian Home.” Chambers's Journal. Shoulder of Veal a la Bourgeoise.—Bone the shoulder, aud season it with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; roll it, and give it an oblong shape, then tie it up, and put it into an oval stewpan, with a piece of butter, and stew it over a slow fire; let it take a fine light colour, then add a glass of water, and sprinkle it with a little salt, adding a bay-leaf; place fire above aud below till a glaze is formed. Dress the shoulder on the dish, and drain the butter, detaching what remains with a spoonful of broth, and pour the gravy on the veal. Turkish Kebobs.—Take lean meat, cut it into pieces about an inch square, and a quarter of an inch thick; rub these pieces with a little curry stuff, and put them upon skewers, with half a shalot between each. Dip the skewered meat into the yolk of an egg, and then into bread crumbs, mixed parsley, sweet herbs, salt, and cayenne; dip them again in the egg, aud a second time cover them with bread crumbs. Put these sticks of meat on a spit, and roast them, basting them with a little salad oil. Serve them up brown, with or without sauce. Minced Veal.—Cut the veal in small pieces, and put it in a stewpan with some bechamel sauce, a little milk, and a small quantity of floured butter, a small piece of lemon peel, and warm. Serve with bread sippets. Heck of Veal Braised.—Put a little lean bacon or ham into a stew- pan, with an onion, two carrots, two heads of celery, and a glass of sherry or Madeira; lay on them the neck and a little water, and stew until it is tender. Strain off the liquor, mix a little butter and flour in a stewpan until brown, stir some of the liquor in, and boil it up ; skim it, and use a little lemon, and serve with the meat. The bacon must be browned in a salamander. Beef or Veal en Eoulade.—This is a German dish. Take a piece of beef, veal, or mutton, and cut it into thin slices; beat them, and spread one of the sides of each slice with anchovies, parsley, basil, the whole chopped very fine; add salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; cut as many pieces of bacon a3 you have grated meat, and of the same length ; place them on the edge of the latter, and roll up the whole, so that the slice of bacon may be in the centre ; tie them up with a string, and put them into a saucepan with some melted butter; when they are well browned take them out, put into the fat a spoonful of flour, let it brown, and then add some bouillon, pepper, and salt. Put the roulades (from which you have taken the string) into this sauce to finish ; add a few slices of lemon, and serve hot. What the Germans call kloea is a sort of quenelle, composed of flour, or the crumb of bread soaked in milk, of rice or somolina, cooked in water, bouillon, or milk, according as it is intended to make a savoury dish or sweet entremet. Kloes are made with meat.