POULTRY. 49 turkey into it, to give tlie puree a flavour, aud serve ; or stew the vege- tables, and surround the turkey in the dish. Fowl h la Marengo.—Cut up a fowl as for fricassee, and put it in a stewpan ; first the legs, as they take longer doing, and then the other parts, with a little salt, and a quantity of Lucca oil. Let the joints brown, and, when half done, add some fine herbs, with pepper and cayenne. It may be eaten with sauce, and the dish garnished, but if the fowl is tender it will require no addition, except a slice of ham or bacon. This dish is a braise, and it is a matter of history, that after the great fight at Marengo, the Emperor Napoleon’s cook was obliged to use salad oil instead of butter. The general was so pleased with the cuisine that he ordered this land of fare frequently afterwards, and hence fowl a la Marengo is a favourite plat in France to this day. Simple viands are in request by the sovereigns of our day. George IV. generally dined alone in the private salle a manger at Windsor Castle. A roast fowl was the favourite .dish of William IV., with a black bottle of sherry, contrary to Cardigan pro- priety ; and at the grand banquet given to our gracious Queen at Guildhall by the City authorities in 1837, her Majesty partook solely of turtle and roast mutton, with only a little sherry and claret. George III. lived like an ascetic, for fear of gout, and ate with rapidity, like Napoleon I.—so much so, that those persons who dined with him could not satisfy their appetite unless by continuing their meal after their sovereign had finished, which was opposed to the old etiquette. He was so sensible and con- siderate that, when dining with the Queen, he would say to his attendants, “Don’t regard me, take your own time.” Queen Charlotte enjoyed herself at table, and mani- fested a judgment in wine, which her royal husband rarely drank. Eoast Goose a la Francois.—Take a hundred chestnuts, and put them on the fire in apoele with holes; after having taken off the first skin, put them again in the poele till you remove the second skin. Chop half the chestnuts, and put them into a stewpan with half a pound of sausage-meat, the liver chopped, a little butter, some parsley, chives, shalot, and a clove of garlic, finely chopped. Put this on the fire for a quarter of an hour, then stuff the goose with it, and roast. Put the rest of the chestnuts into a stewpan, with a glass of wine, a little stock., pepper, and salt; when done serve round the goose. _ Chestnuts are difficult of digestion in a raw state, but when cooked they are other- wise. In France they are much used in cookery and confectionery, and in Italy thej are sold at the corners of the streets, dressed in various ways, as well as made into bread and puddings. Poulard a la Montmorency.—Lard the fowl, and stuff it with the liver, cut in pieces, some bacon, and hard eggs; stew it in pale stock, with flour browned in butter, some onions, carrots, and a few fine herbs ; reduce the sauce to a gla^e, and serve with the fowl. Fowls Stewed.—Fowls may be divided in joints and stewed in Bechamel sauce, or done in cream, with white pepper, salt, and an onion cut in shreds, and served with the dish garnished with slices of ham or bacon, and lemon or bread sippets. The Bridge of Jena and Column of Austerlitz saved from Destruction by a Dinner.—The Count von der Gotz, formerly one of Blucher’s aide-de-camps, being entreated by Prince Talleyrand to interfere to prevent the bridge of Jena and the Austerlitz column being destroyed in Paris, Blucher’s answer was very characteristic. ‘ I have determined on blowing up the bridge,” he wrote, “ and I cannot conceal from. Y°ur Excellency how much pleasure it would afford me if M. Talleyrand would E