HOME-MADE M IXES AXD CORDIALS. 330 “trifle,” as a sandwich or biscuit, an interval of at least an hour should elapse before retiring’ to rest. In this way restlessness and unpleasant dreams will become rare — Cooley. You must not indulge in “filthy beer,” nor in porter, nor eat suppers—the last are the devil to those who swallow dinner.—.Vijrpn to Moore, 1817. Tastes Differ.—Suppers were the ne plus ultra, of human invention; it could go no further, and was obliged to degenerate. Dinner is too much a matter of business, it i3 a necessity; now, a necessity is too like a duty ever to be pleasant; besides, it divides the day instead of ’winding it up. I do not think, moreover, that people were ever meant to enjoy themselves in the daytime.—Miss Landau. Edible Snails.—In a former letter I mentioned the reputation the snail enjoyed in Ireland as a remedy for arresting the progress of consumption. As the snail just now is attracting a large share of the attention of your readers, it may be interesting to them to know how they are prepared when used as a cure. I have had the receipt from, a lady, the daughter of a clergyman in the west of Ireland, who has prescribed the remedy with great success. She write - “ The snails used for the broth, as you call my fine syrup, are the common large brown things that creep about the gardens carry- ing their houses along with them. They are collected and placed on a large dish and plentifully sprinkled with dark sugar ; then another dish is turned over them to pre- vent them running away ; and next morning the syrup which has been made during the night is to be drained off and bottled, and a table-spoonful is to be taken three times a day. A little lemon-peel may be added to flavour the broth. The same snails should not be sugared twice. It is really a goed thing, buff of course, will not cure in a day.” I have spoken to a lady who attributes her own recovery from consumption to the use of this receipt—cod-liver oil having .died to strengthen her; and a lady from the county of Tipperary tells me she knows snails boiled in veal broth to have effected a perfect cure in a consumptive patient. The subject is, I think, well worthy of attention and inquiry.—Correspondent in the “ Field” XLVII.-HOME-MADE WINES AND CORDIALS. Lord Palmerston (who as Minister has been uncustomed to employ his pleasantries ns passatonnerres for troublesome visitors) one day related the following anecdote to a deputation of gentlemen, who waited on him to urge the reduction of the wine duties. Referring to the question of adulterations, “I remember,” said his lordship, “my grandfather. Lord Pembroke, when he placed wine before llis guests, said, ‘ There, gentlemen, is my champagne, my claret, &c. I am no great judge, and I give you this on the authority of my wine merchant; but I can answer for my port, for I made it myself.’ ”—Hints for the Table. Now if Lord Palmerston had honoured us with his grandfather’s mode for the manufacture of port, we should have been much obliged to him, for there is little doubt but that many home-made wines are infinitely superior to the foreign “made up” for the English market, and from thence exported to the Australias ; but as we have not been so fortunate as to obtain Lord Pembroke’s recipe, we are obliged to have recourse to a few of our own. Kaisin Wine, with Frontignac Flavour.—Boil twelve pounds of Malaga raisins in twelve gallons of water till thoy are quite absorbed, then take them out, extract the stones, and return the pulp to the water. Pour on twenty-four pounds of loaf sugar, and ferment it with Half a pint of yeast. When the fermentation begins to subside, tie up in a muslin bag half a peck of elder-flowers, and suspend the bag for some days in the liquor; then remove it, and when clear draw off and bottle.