BROTHS. 8 Crowdie.—This favourite Scotch broth is generally made from the liquor meat has been boiled in. Put half a pint of oatmeal into a por- ringer, with a little salt, and thicken the crowdie sufficiently with meal. This is a dish easily made, is nutritious, wholesome, and costs little. Chicken Broth.—Put half a chicken, cut into pieces, into a stewpan, with about a quart of water. Let it simmer for an hour, skim well, add salt and a table-spoonful of rice; put it on the fire again for half an hour, and it will be found to be excellent broth. Broth Bouillon.—(Made in an hour.) Take a pound of beef or veal, cut into dice, chop them, and put them into a stewpan, with an onion, a carrot, a bit of bacon, and a glass of water; just as it comes to the boil throw in another glass of water, add some salt, boil it a little longer, and add about a quart of boiling water ; take it up, strain, and serve. Broth.—(A la minute.) Boil a quart of water ; put to it half a pint of the gravy from roast meat; add salt, and it will serve for all purposes. Bouillon aux Herbes.—(Strengthening.) Take leaves of sorrel, leeks, lettuce, purslain, and chervil, about two handfuls of each; pick and wash them; add salt, some fresh butter ; boil together in three pints of water till it is reduced to half; take it off and strain it. If you like you can add the yolks of two eggs, beaten with a spoonful of cream. Calf’s Boot Broth.—Simmer the foot in water, with a little lemon- peel, taking off the scum. Put it into a basin, and, when cold, take off the fat. When wanted, warm it up again with a little of the broth, add- ing butter, sugar, ancl nutmeg; add the yolk of an egg and serve. Shanks of mutton make excellent stock for any kind of gravy, and are good stewed of themselves; and they are cheap—a dozen may be pur- chased for a penny, enough, with seasoning and herbs, to make a quart of nutritious soup. Spartan Broth.—The black broth of Laeedsemon will long1 continue to excite the wonder of the philosopher and the disgust of the epicure. Julius Pollux says it was blood thickened in a certain way. Dr. Lester, in “ Apicium,” supposes it to have been hogs’ blood; if so, this celebrated Spartan dish bore a resemblance to the black puddings of our day. The citizens of Sybaris having tasted it, declared it was no longer a matter of astonishment why the Spartans were so fearless of death, since every one in his senses would die, rather than exist on such miserable food.—Athcnamm. When Dionysius, the tyrant, had tasted the black broth, he exclaimed against it as miserable stuff. The cook replied, “It was no wonder, for the sauce was wanting.” “What sauce ? " says Dionysius. The answer was, “Labour and exercise, hunger and thirst— these are the sauces we Lacedoemonians use, and they make the coarsest fare agreeable.” —Cicero, “ A difference between crockeryware and plate, As between English beef and Spartan broth, And yet great heroes have been bred by both.”