XXVIII.—FISH. As food, fish are undoubtedly wholesome and nutritious, although less so than the flesh of animals or the grain of cereals. Of all the substances used as aliments by man, fish are, however, most liable to run into a state of putrefaction, and therefore should be eaten when perfectly fresh, or, if not recently taken, then only when they are in a state of good preservation by any of the ordinary methods employed for the purpose. Those that are the whitest and most flaky when cooked, as cod, flounders, haddock, hake, soles, turbot, whiting, &c. are the most easily digested ; and those abounding in oily matter, as eels, herrings, mackerel, salmon, &c., are most nutritious, though the most likely to offend the stomach. Salt-water fish are said to be more wholesome than river fish, but without sufficient reason. Salted fish are hard of digestion, unless when carefully cooked and well masticated. The frequent use of fish as an aliment is said to promote the sexual feelings, but not the increase of population, unless a' sufficiency of other food is taken at the same time. As one cf the components of a mixed diet the value of fish is indisputable. Acid sauces and pickles are the proper additions to fish, from their power of retarding the progress of putrefaction, and of correcting the relaxing tendency of large quantities of oil and butter.—Cooley’s “ Practical Receipts.” Broiled Bream.—When at the sea-coast, on fishing excursions, it has been one of my customs to eat of the various fishes I could either catch, or purchase, that are not in geperal use for the table. With the example of Izaak Walton before me, I will venture to suggest a mode of preparing, a sea bream which materially improves its more ordinary flavour:— When thoroughly cleaned, the fish should be wiped dry, but none of the scales should be taken off. In this state it should be broiled, turning it often; and, if the skin cracks, flour it a little, to keep the outer case entire. When on table, the whole skin and scales turn out without difficulty, and the muscle beneath, saturated with its own natural juices* which the outside covering has retained, will be found of good flavour.— Yarrell’s “ British Fishes." Anchovies.—Hors d'oeuvre of anchovies upon a plate. In the middle place the anchovies, cut in fillets, and lay them transversely. Around them place a wreath of parsley or other minced garnish, and upon them quarters of hard egg. Serve with oil. According to “La Nouvelle Cuisine Lconomiqvc,” the head of the carp is the best part of that fish, being le morccau d’honneur, and which, for that reason, the author adds, “Doit etre offert a lapersonne la plus considaree.” Bust in anchovies, if I’m not mistaken. Is as bad as rust in steel, or rust in bacon.—Young’s “Epicure.” To Pot Pish.—Any kind of fish may be potted, as well as lobster, crayfish, prawns, &c. Pull the fish to pieces, and pick out every bone ; mix with a little butter, cayenne, pepper, salt, mace, oil, and vinegar, place the fish in pots, and pour clarified butter over it. » Potted fish and potted meats (done in a similar way) are an excellent accompaniment at a breakfast, luncheon, or picnic. New England Cliouder (American').—Cut a haddock, cod, or any other solid fish, into pieces three inches square; pound a pound of fat salt pork in strips into the pot, set it on the fire and fry out the oil; take out