INTRODUCTORY PREFACE. IX the presiding genius who officiated at the temple dedicated to Lucullus was the celebrated Careme, the artiste that the late autocrat of Russia propitiated, by the presentation of a diamond ring, as a tribute to his superior worth in his vocation. This elegant banquet took place in Paris— the city 'of all others in which it is said that the men excel in dressing dinners, and the women in dressing themselves; but I much fear that the fragility of the elegant crockery would prevent the desideratum of warm plates. Let the reader contrast the account of the dinner given by the Parisian millionaire with that of the Australian Wool King. An exquisite of the Lord Dundreary mould, from the mother country, was invited to dine with a colonist, who was not aware that, “to order a dinner well was a matter of invention and combination. It involves novelty, simplicity, and taste ; whereas in the generality of dinners there is no character but that of dull routine, according to the seasonso writes Mr. Walker, in the “ Original.” The guest was subsequently asked what he had for dinner; the languid response was, “There was mutthon at th’ twop of the twable, mutthon at ther bothain of ther twable, and th’ west of ther swheep in twandles.” I am desirous of some reform in the cuisine of some of my countrymen’s establishments, and I am vain enough to believe that I shall effect that object by this publication. In getting up a work of this kind, my readings on the subject have necessarily been extensive, and I have met with odd ideas propounded. Kone more surprised me than an article in the Quarterly Review (No. CIV.—1. On the ultimate composition of alimentary substances; Domestic cookery; 3. Code Gourmand), in which the critic de- scribes a mode of making bread from sawdust; and the statement .is made that Professor Autereith found that fifteen pounds of birch- wood, three pounds of wheat leaven, two pounds of wheat flour, and eight measures of new milk yielded thirty-six pounds of good bread. 1 would rather put faith in Liebig, who writes, in his new “ Letters on Chemistry,”— r • /• PT0P0!;als winch have hitherto been made to use substitutes for flour, and thus uiminisa the price of bread in times of scarcity, prove how much the rational principles ot hygiene are disregarded, and how unknown the laws of nutrition are still.” I think this sawdust bread would be found to afford as much suste- nance as the recipe of one of England’s dukes during the Irish famine, if is Grace advised the preparation of a soup maigre, to be composed of a small quantity of curry powder, with a larye quantity of water. The Quarterly proceeds to inform its readers that skin is jelly, and has