PRESERVES AND CONSERVES. 145 ■drop or two of essence of lemon or vanilla will improve it. The treacle is simply the juice of mangold evaporated to a proper consistence over a slow fire.—Hobart Town Advertiser. To Keep Gooseberries and Damsons.—Pick the fruit, not too ripe, and put them into wide-mouthed bottles; cork them gently; put them in the oven—not over-warm—until they have shrunk a third of their weight. Take them out of the oven, tighten the corks, and rosin them down close. Bottling Cherries.—To every pound of fruit for tarts tlirougli the winter, add six ounces of loaf sugar. Fill the jars with fruit; shake the sugar over, and tie down with two bladders, as there is danger of one bursting through the boiling. Place the jars in a boiler of cold water, and, after the water has boiled, let them remain three hours; take them out, and, when cool, put them in a dry place, where they will keep over a year. We have tried this receipt for several years, and never knew it fail. The fruit makes delicious puddings.—Correspondent in the “Field.” To Preserve Apples, Pears, and Quinces.—Peel and core them, and cut them in thin slices; dry them in the sun. When used in pies or puddings, soak them sufficiently in lukewarm water, and the flavour of the apple will be found excellent. Apples, gooseberries, and other fruit may be preserved for winter use, by putting the fruit dry in earthern jars, and the jars placed in a pan of water over a hot plate until the water boils. Then take the jars from the fire, and fill them up with boiling water; cover them with bladders while hot, and place them where they are to remain until wanted. Preserved Ginger.—If green ginger cannot be procured, take some large pieces of the common ginger, and simmer it in water until tender, and when done put in cold water. Take it out and drain ; and to equal quantities in weight of ginger add white sugar (sugar-candy is best); let the sugar be clarified, and put to the ginger. Simmer constantly, until the sugar has penetrated right through the ginger. The sugar must not be put to the ginger too hot, or it will shrink, and not take the sugar. By proceeding carefully, the housewife will make a preserve •quite equal to that for which the Chinese are so famous. Compotes.—These are simply fruits stewed in syrup, for which the French are justly famo ;s ; and sometimes a little wine or brandy is added to the liquor. Compote of Apples.—Cut your apples in halves or quarters, accord- ing to their size ; put them in to stew with sufficient water and sugar to taste ; add a glass of wine, and a little lemon acid; simmer, and, when sufficiently done, serve in their own syrup. Compotes of pears, currants, cherries, plums, gooseberries, peaches, apricots, straw- berries, raspberries, quinces, and chestnuts, are served in the same way. Syrups.—These are French preparations of fruit, &c., to mix with water for a cooling beverage at soirees or balls. Water and sugar are the component parts of all syrups, except, as a “ Manual of French Cookery ” K