80 THE DESSERT. coals on the top as well as under. This and the. girdle should be in every labourer’s cottage. Wo are indebted for the three last recipes to Cobbett’s we presume the latter utensil is the modern camp oven. “ Cottage Economy;” and c exhaust the space we have allotted to bread and breakfast cakes with the following hints to enable the housewife to select flour 1. Look at its colour: if it is white, with a straw-coloured tint, it is a good sign ; if white with specks, the flour is not good. 2. Examine its adhesiveness. Wet and knead it a little : if it works dry and elastic, it is good ; if it works soft and sticky, it is poor. 3- Throw a small lump of dry flour against a dry and smooth surface; if it falls like powder, it is bad. 4. Squeeze some of the flour in your hand: if it retains the shape given it by pressure, that is a good sign. The Adelaide (South Australia) silk-drossed flour, and the best American barrelled flour of good brands, are the most economical, as they absorb considerably more water than the generality of other flours. The London Bakers’ Gazette, of 1S49, asserted a self-evident truth—the finer the flour the more bread can be made of it. Home-made and Bakers’ Bread.—Home-made good bread is full of flavour—that of the baker comparatively tasteless. The former is firm, of a strong, compact substance, goes far, and keeps well (from three days to three weeks), and, indeed, improves after the three first days; the latter is light, very white aiyl spongy, does not satisfy the appetite, and can scarcely be kept in an eatable condition for four days.—Magazine of Domestic Economy. XXV.—THE DESSERT. A word of doubtful etymology, signifying the last service at dinner, consisting of fruits and confections, &c. The modern dessert is probably equivalent to the menses secundw of the Romans. If we believe Congreve, the term came into use by the French about the commencement of the seventeenth century, and was soon adopted into, and naturalised in most of the European languages. In all the countries of Europe the splendour of the dessert has ever since the period of its introduction kept pace with the progress of refinement and civilisation; and by many gastronomes the qualities and arrangement of a dessert are looked upon as the most valid test of all that is Attic in taste, and refined in elegance.—Brande. There is no question that Professor Brande is correct in the above definition of a dessert, as nothing adds so much to a banquet, or the most common dinner party, than that the last service should be perfect of its kind. The amphitryon must see that this course is properly served and assorted. The arrangement is a mere matter of taste, perhaps display; but we have now only to enumerate the essentials, viz., cakes, biscuits, and conserves of every possible variety; ices, and fruits of every kind— pine apples, grapes, melons, strawberries, raspberries, cherries, plums, peaches, apricots, pears, apples, medlars, filberts, walnuts, chestnuts, oranges, shaddocks, figs, dates, and many tropical varieties, not for- getting— The simple olives, best allies of wine, Must I pass over in my bill of fare ? I must, although a favourite plat of mine In Spain, and Lucca, Athens, everywhere; On them and bread ’twas oft my lot to dine.