HEBREW REFECTION. 250 and a little saffron; mix well in a cnp, and ponr it into the stew pan, stirring it carefully one way until it thickens. Balls should he thrown in about twenty minutes before serving. They are made in the following way:—Take a little of the fish, the liver and the roe, if there is any, beat it up finely with chopped parsley, and spread warm butter, crumbs of bread, and seasoning according to taste. Form this into a paste with eggs, and make it into balls of a moderate size. This is a very nice dish when cold. Garnish with sliced lemon and parsley. Fisli Soup.—Make a good stock, by simmering a cod’s-head in water, enough to cover the fish ; season it with pepper and salt, mace, celery, parsley, and a few sweet herbs, with two or three onions; when suffi- ciently done strain it, and add cutlets of fish prepared in the following manner:—Cut very small, well trimmed cutlets from any fish—sole or brill are, perhaps, best; stew them in equal quantities of water and wine, but not more than will cover them, with a large lump of butter, and the juice of a lemon; when they have stewed gently for about fifteen or twenty minutes, add them to the soup, which thicken with cream and flour. Serve the soup with the cutlets in a tureen. Forcemeat balls of cod’s liver are sometimes added. Fisli Fried in Oil.—Soles, plaice, or salmon are the best kind of fish to dress in this manner, although other sorts are used. When prepared by salting or drying, have a dish ready with beaten eggs, turn the fish well over in them, and sprinkle it freely with flour, so that the fish may be covered entirely with it; then place it in a pan, with a quantity of the best frying-oil, at boiling heat. Fry the fish in it gently till of a fine, equal, brown colour. When done it should be placed before the fire for the oil to drain off. Great care should be taken that the oil should have ceased to bubble when the fish is put in, otherwise it will be greasy; the oil will serve again if strained off and poured into a jar. Fish preserved in this way is usually served cold, garnished with parsley. Escobeche.—Take some cold fried fish, and place it in a deep pan ; then boil half a pint of vinegar with two table-spoonfuls of water, a little grated ginger, allspice, cayenne pepper, two bay-leaves, a little salt, and a table-spoonful of lemon-juice; with sliced onions. When boiling, pour it over the fish ; cover the pan, and let it stand twenty-four hours before serving. Eugel and Oornmean.—Soak a pint of Spanish peas and one pint of Spanish beans all night in three pints of water; take two marrow-bones, and tie them together, to prevent the marrow from escaping, and put altogether in a pan ; then take one pound of flour, half a pound of shred suet, a little grated nutmeg and ground ginger, cloves and allspice, one pound of coarse brown sugar, and the crumb of a slice of bread, first soaked in water, and pressed dry. Mix all these ingredients into a paste; grease a quart basin, and put it in, covering the basin with a plate; set it in ■ the middle of the pan, with the beans, meat, &c. Cover the pan tightly