BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES. 78 Barley Bannocks.—Mix barley-meal with water and a little salt; then roll them out into a paste, three quarters of an inch thick, divide it into cakes, and bake in an oven or on the girdle of a light brown colour. Barley Bread.—Barley bread lias a sweetish, but not unpleasant taste; it is, how- ever, rather viscid, and is less nutritive, as well as less digestible, than wheaten bread. It is common to mix pea-meal with the barley, which certainly improves the bread. Rye bread is of a dark brown colour, and is apt to lie heavy on the stomach; it is also liable to create ascecency and purging; but it appears to be highly nutritive. In some of the interior counties of England, where bread is often manufactured from oatmeal, there is a mode of preparing tbe meal by making it sour; the bread, instead of being hard, is thus rendered of a soft texture, and, from its moderate acidity, is wholesome to strong persons; but invalids should, if possible, avoid it. In bread, however, this grain is more usually in an unfermented state, or it is made into flat thin cakes, which are baked or roasted. The bannock, class bread, and riddle calces, are the names which such productions have received. The bannock is oaten bread made into loaves. It is evident, from the health and vigour of the people who use this grain as a principal article of that it must be nutritive; but the stomach will require some discipline before it can digest it.—Paris on Diet. American Pnffets for Tea or Breakfast.— One pint of cold milk, that lias been boiled, a quarter of a pint of yeast, half a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, and five eggs, to be made into a stiff paste, which must be put on the baking-tin to rise, and, without taking off, be baked in the usual manner. Unfermented Bread (another way).—White meal, three pounds, avordupois; bi-carbonate of soda, four and a half ounces, troy; hydro- chloric acid, five drachms ; water, thirty fluid ounces; salt, two-thirds of an ounce, troy. Bread made in this manner contains nothing but flour, common salt, and water. It has an agreeable natural taste, keeps much longer than common bread, is more digestible, and is much less disposed to turn sour. — “ Instructions for making Unfermented Bread," by a Physician. The French, who particularly excel in the art of baking, have a great many different kinds of bread. Their pain bis, or brown bread, is the coarsest of all, and is made of coarse groats, mixed with a portion of white flour. The pain do mitiel is a bread made with rye and barley flour, to which wheat flour is sometimes added also. The pain de blanc is a kind of bread between white and brown, made of white flour and fine groats. The pain blanc, or white bread, is made of white flour, shaken through a sieve after the finest flour has been separated. The pain mollet, or soft bread, is made of the finest flour, without any admixture. The pain chaland, or customers’ bread, i3 a very white land of bread, made of pounded paste. Pain chapels is a small kind of bread, with a well- beaten and very fight paste, seasoned with butter or milk. This name is also given to a small bread, from which the thickest crust has been removed with a rasp. Pain corndo is a name given by the French bakers to a land of bread made with four comers, and sometimes more ; of all the kinds of small bread this has the strongest and firmest paste. Pain de la reine, Queen’s bread, pain a la Sigorie, pain chapale, andpain comlie are all kinds of bread differing only in the lightness or thickness of the paste. Pain de graau is a small white bread made now in Paris from the flour separated after a slight grinding from the best wheat. Such flour is in hard granular particles.—TJre. Milk Ouits (American).—Two pounds of flour, sifted; half a pound •of butter ; two eggs, six wine-glasses of milk and two of yeast. Cut the butter into the milk, and warm it lightly in the stove; sift the flour into the pan and pour the milk and butter into it. Beat the eggs and pour them in also, lastly the yeast. Mix all well together, flour your paste- board, put the dough on it and knead it. Then cut the dough in small