MILK. 122 new principle. The question he proposed to himself was whether milk obtained at any hour of the day always presented the same chemical composition or not; and he has arrived at the result that the milk of the evening is richer by 3 per cent, than that of the morning, the latter con- taining only 10 per cent, of solid matter, and the former 13 per cent. On the other hand, the water contained in milk diminishes by 3 per cent, in the course of the day; in the morning it contains 89 per cent, of watei, and only 86 per cent, in the evening. The fatty particles increase gradually as the day wears on. In the morning they amount to 2-17 per cent. ; at noon, to 2.63; and in the evening, to 3'42 per cent. This circumstance, if true, would be very important in a practical point of view. Let us suppose a kilogramme of milk to yield only the sixth part of its weight of butter ; then the milk of the evening may yield double that quantity. The caseous particles are also more abundant in the evening than in the morning; from 2-24 they increase to 2-70 per cent., but the quantity of albumen diminishes from 044 to 031. The serum is less abundant at midnight than at noon, being 4T9 per cent, in the former case, and 4-72 in the last.—Galignani. “To the Editor or the ‘Times.’ “ Sir,—I trust that a sense of justice will ensure the insertion of the following brief remarks. “Under the heading ‘Milk,’ your impression of yesterday contains some observa- tions on the analysis of that article, and among them the following passage occurs:— “ ‘ Milk has been so often analysed that it would seem no further facts could be elicited regarding this important iluid. Professor Boedecker, however, has just com- pleted a series of experiments, conducted on quite a new principle. The question he proposed to himself was, whether milk obtained at any hour of the day always pre- sented the same chemical composition or not, and he arrived at the result that the milk of the evening is richer by 3 per cent, than that of the morning, the latter containing only 10 per cent, of solid matter, and the former 13 per cent.,’ &c. “These observations are not new; they have been long since anticipated; so that whatever merit or importance is attached to them, does not belong to Dr. Boedecker. “ In my report on the adulteration of milk, published in the Lancet in 1851—that is, eleven years since—I gave the results of the analysis of a number of samples of morning and afternoon milk, obtained from different cows, and from these it appeared that while ten samples of morning milk furnished collectively 77i per-centages of cream, the average of the whole being 7b the same number of samples of afternoon milk, taken from the same cows, gave 96£ per-centages, the average being 9 b The curd in the first series of samples amounted to 693, and in the second to 810 grains. “Thus I have found the difference to be even greater than that stated by Dr. Boedecker. “ But, further, at the period referred to, I made the somewhat singular observation that the composition of milk varies still more at different periods of even the same millring, the milk last drawn from the udder being always much richer than tfiat first abstracted. Thus while eight samples of the afternoon milk first drawn furnished 61-J per-centages of cream, that last removed amounted to no less than 141£ per-centages. “These facts are pregnant with practical importance. Upon this part of the subject I must not enlarge, but will merely refer to the common practice which prevails for invalids to procure their glass of milk from the cow. The milk thus obtained must, as we have seen, be of the most uncertain composition, according as it is first or last milk drawn. If the former, it will be exceedingly poor in cream, &c.; and if the latter, exceedingly rich. “Arthur Hill Hassall, M.D. “ Wimpole Street, Dec. 27, 1862.” Coagulated Milk.—An excellent and wholesome dish as an entremets, or for chil- dren, is made from new milk coagulated with patent rennet, and ate with a little wine, sugar, and nutmeg. For youth and young children, there is no food so nutritious and wholesome as bread and milk; chemists aver they are both perfect as food in them-