186 DINNERS A LA RUSSE. unless they are permitted to recover their exhausted energies before being slaughtered. Why is this? The first and most natural supposition respecting those which die from disease is that their flesh is tainted; but it has been found that prolonged agony or exhaustion are quite as inju- rious, though in these cases there is no taint of disease. Mr. Claude Bernard propounds the following explanation :—la all healthy animals, no matter to what class they belong, or on what food they subsist, he finds a peculiar substance, analogous to vegetable starch, existing in their tissue, and especially in their liver. This substance he calls glycogene, i. e., the sugar former. It is abundant in proportion to the vigour and youth of the animal, and disappears entirely under the prolonged suffering of pain or disease. This disappearance is peculiarly rapid in fish, and is always observed in the spontaneous death of animals; but when the death is sudden none of it disappears. He finds that a rabbit, for example, which he lulled after suffering pain for five or six hours, exhibits no form whatever of this sugar-forming substance, and its flesh has a marked difference in flavour. The same remark applies to exhausted, over-driven animals; their muscles are almost deficient in glycogene, and yield in water a far larger proportion of soluble principles than the same muscle in a normal state. Mr. Bernard finds, moreover, that animals which are suffocated lose more of the sugar-forming substance than similar animals killed in the slaughter-house. To this let us add the fact that the blood of over-driven animals will not coagulate, or coagulates very slowly and imperfectly, and we shall see good reason for exercising some circumspec- tion over the practices of our meat markets.—Curnhill Magazine. Poetical.—When my spirits are low, for relief and delight I still place your splendid memorial in sight; And call to my muse, when care strives to pursue. Bring the steaks to my mem’ry, and the howl to my view. —Captain Morris, at the Beefsteak Club, in 1835, at the age of ninety, onbeing presented, with a silver bowl. LXX.-D1NNERS A LA RUSSE. Anybody may dine, but very few know how to dine so as to ensure the greatest quantity of health and enjoyment.—Walker. In some establishments this form of dining is observed. The dishes are placed on the side-table, and the servants carve and hand round what is required. The table is ornamented with the dessert, the glass, plate, an epergne or plateau of plate, and flowers of a choice kind in vases. The table has a pleasing appearance, but it is scarcely a favourite mode for an Englishman, who likes to see the cut taken from the dish. Dinners a la llusse are merely a refined adaptation of the cheap ham and beef shop, where you are served with a plateful at a time, and we venture Avith deference to express such an opinion. The strict etiquette of a Russian dinner is, that the guests are seated, and the master and mistress of the feast remain standing—it being their business to wait on the