57 PUDDINGS AND PIES. Fruit Pies or Tarts.—Gooseberries, damsons, morello cherries, cur- rants mixed with raspberries, plums of all kinds, cranberries, and mulberries, should be fresh picked and washed. Lay them in the dish, with the centre highest, and half a pound of moist sugar to a quart of fruit; rub the edges of the dish with yolks of eggs, cover with paste- in the usual way, and bake in a quick oven. For icing, beat up the whites of two eggs to a froth, lay it over the pie or tart, sift over it pounded sugar, and return it to the oven to set. The Cup in a Pie.—The custom of placing an inverted cup in a fruit pie, the cook will inform us, is to contain the juice while the pie ishaldng in the oven, and to prevent it boiling over; and she is, moreover, certain in her theory, because, when the pie is withdrawn from the oven, the cup will be found full of juice. When the cup is first put into the dish it is full of cold air, and when the pie is placed in the oven this air wdl expand by the heat and fill the cup, and drive out all the juice and a portion of the present air it contains, in which state it will remain until removed from the oven, when the air in the cup will condense, and occupy a very small space, leaving the remainder to be tilled with juice; but this does not take place till the danger of the juice boiling- over is passed. If a small glass tumbler is inverted in the pie, its contents can be examined into while it is in the oven, and it will be found what has been advanced is correct.—Gower’s “Scientific Phenomena of Domestic Life.” Nesselrode Pudding.—Blanch about forty chestnuts in boiling water,, remove the husks and pound them in a mortar, adding a little syrup. Then rub them through a fine sieve, and mix in a basin, with a pint of syrup made from a pound of sugar clarified, and flavoured with vanilla, a pint of cream, and the yolks of a dozen eggs. Set this mixture over the lire, and keep stirring it, and just as it begins to boil take it off and pass it through a tamis. When it is cold put it into a freezing-pot, adding a glass of maraschino, and let the mixture set; then add an ounce of citron, two ounces of currants, and two ounces of stewed raisins; the whole thus mixed, add a plateful of whipped cream to the whites of three eggs beaten to a froth, with a little syrup. When the pudding is frozen, put it into a pine-apple mould, close the lid, place it again in the freezing-pan, cover over with pounded ice and saltpetre, and let it remain until required for table; then turn out the pudding and serve. The above is one of the most fashionable and aristocratic of puddings made, and was reckoned a chef d'ceuvre of the celebrated Careme. Aunt Nelly’s Pudding.—Chop half a pound of suet fine, mix with it , half a pound of flour, half a pound of treacle, a few shreds of candied lemon-peel, three table-spoonfuls of cream, and two eggs well beaten ; beat the ingredients well, put it into a buttered basin ; tie it down with a cloth, and boil for a couple of hours. Almond Puffs.—Blanch and pound two ounces of sweet and four of bitter almonds, melt two ounces of butter, dredge in two table-spoonfuls of flour, and add two ounces of sugar and the pounded almonds. Beat the- mixture well, and bake in a moderate oven. Turn them out on a dish, the bottom of the puff uppermost, and serve. Alma Pudding.—Beat half a pound of butter to a cream, strew in by~ degrees half a pound of powdered sugar, and mix both together; then