viii INTRODUCTORY PREFACE. have satisfied him; but as to the rest, the mutton was white, the veal was red, the fish was kept too long, and the venison not long enough. To sum up all, everything was cold except the ice, and everything sour except the vinegar.” On another subject well worthy of reflection, Bulwer, no mean observer of fashionable life, informs us, with much truth, that if a man gives a dinner beyond his means, even the guests ridicule his presumption, and laugh at his fare. I would enjoin the urgency of punctuality in household affairs, as a golden rule, and an essential attribute that must never be lost sight of. Nothing tends to annoy and even vex “ the hungry sinner,” so much as waiting for his meals. At the time, the exact hour, let the words be announced that our immortal Bard has put into the mouth of Anne, in the first act of the “ Merry Wives of Windsor: ”— “ The dinner is on the table.” Ude informs us that “ Cookery is the soul of festivity, at all times, and in all agesand yet how many neglect this daily requirement, for not only the dinner requires attention ; but the etceteras want looking after, as well as the dishes. A slight table adjunct may make or mar the most luxurious repast. An every-day incident of this kind is thus given in “ Coningsby:”— “Lord Monmouth’s dinners in Paris were celebrated; it was generally agreed that they had no equals, yet there were others who had as skilful cooks—others who, for such a purpose, were equally profuse in their expenditure. What, then, was the secret spell of his success?—the simplest in the world: His Lordship’s plates were always hot.” To the lovers of gastronomy, hot plates are a positive necessary to a dinner. A local story, well authenticated, is told of an epicure, dining at an hotel in Tasmania. The garqon handed a plate so hot that the fingers of the recipient were burnt. With great coolness the gourmet put his hand, still smarting from the effects of the caloric, into his pocket and handed the boy a crown, saying, “ Such an unusual circumstance deserved a recompense.” An ill-bred booby, placed in this dilemma, would not have appreciated the luxury, but would have “ uttered curses, not loud but deep.” A dinner given by Baron Rothschild, in France, is thus described :— “ No burnished gold reflected the glaring sunset, no brilliant silver dazzled the eyes; porcelain, beyond the price of precious metals by its beauty and fragility, every piece a picture, consorted with the general character of sumptuous simplicity which rejoiced over the whole; again, every meat presented its own natural aroma, every vegetable its own shade of verdure.” It was Lady Morgan who drew this vivid “ pen and ink sketch; ” .and