SOUTH AUSTRALIAN FISH. 219 cook than the common injury of dining to music ? It is abominable. Once—I well remember it—I chewed to the clangour, and crash, and thunder of a military band. Well, sir, the dinner was excellent—admirable as a dinner ; but I have no more judg- ment than a beast if I had any other taste in my mouth save the brass of the trumpets and the tough parchment of the drum-heads. Silence, profound and solemn, is due to the first hour of dining.—Douglas Jerrold. XCVI—SOUTH AUSTRALIAN FISH Full many a partrieh hadd he in mewe, And many a bream, and many a luce in stewe.—Chaucer. Snapper—weighing from 21bs. to lOlbs. Mullany, or Murray cod—lOlbs. to 701bs. This is a fresh-water fish found in the rivers of Australia. The flesh is rather soft. It produces isinglass, and requires attention in the dressing. The following is an account of its discovery:— The river is rich in the most excellent fish, procurable in the utmost abundance. One man, in less than an hour, caught eighteen large fish, one of which was a curiosity from its immense size and the beauty of its colours. In shape and general form it most resembles a cod, but it was speckled over with brown, blue, and yellow spots, like a leopard’s skin ; its gills and belly a pure white ; the tail and fins a dark brown. It weighed, entire, 701bs.—Oxley on the “Lachlan," 1817. Baker, or mud fish—from 81bs. to 501bs. Bather rare. A highly-prized fish for the table. Native herring, or ruff. A small but delicate fish. Guardfish. Of a similar character. Salmon—21bs. to 41bs. Highly esteemed. Bream—21bs. to 41bs. Yery good eating, and excellent stewed. Mullet and whiting—Jib. to lib. Yery delicate, white flesh, and good. Soles. Large ones are occasionally procurable. Flathead. A very firm fish, and makes unexceptionable soup. Snook and mackerel. Bare. Silver fish and flounders. Bather small, but of fine flavour. Crayfish—21bs. to 81bs. Crabs. Very fine and large. Oysters. Fine. Shrimps. Yery good. Cockles and whelks. The white variety and of a large kind. A Parisian Figurative Dinner.—Accordingly we all three once more entered the fiacre, and drove to the celebrated restaurateur’s of the Rue Mont Orgueil. Oh, blissful recollections of that dinner! how at this moment you crowd upon my delighted remembrance! Lonely and sorrowful as I now sit, digesting with many a throe the iron thews of a British beef-steak—more Anglico—immeasurably tough—I see the graceful apparitions of escallopes de saumon and laitances do carpes rise in a gentle vapour before my eyes! breathing a sweet and pleasant odour, and contrasting the dream-like delicacies of their hue and aspect with the dire and dure realities which now weigh so heavily on the region below my heart! And thou, most beautiful of all—thou evening star of entremets—thou that delightest in truffles, and gloriest in a dark cloud of sauces—exqui- site foie gras!—have I forgotten thee? Do I not, on the contrary, see thee—smell thee —taste thee—and almost die with rapture of thy possession P What, though the goose, of which thou art a part, has, indeed, been roasted alive by a slow fire, ip. order to