MADE DISHES. 19 dinner with Englishmen all over the world. Pork-chops are cooked in a like way, with a little salt, pepper, and sprinkling of dried mint thrown over them ; as well as kidneys. Under-done cold meat, of every kind, is often broiled ; also poultry, rabbits, and pigeons, and served with various sauces. The only art in broiling is to have a clear fire, and no smoke. Beef or mutton steaks, with shalots and tarragon, are recommended. The meat must be hurriedly done over the fire ; no words more appropriate than— .’twere well. If ’twere done quickly; for if allowed to remain a long time in this mode of cooking, the meat hardens, and wastes its juices and its nutritious qualities. Beef and mutton bones are dressed on the grill, and almost anything: a spatch-cock well done on the grill, with sharp sauce, is a meal for an emperor. Soyer suggests a double chop cut off a saddle of mutton ; but the old-fashioned cut chop cannot be improved. Meats dressed a la Maintenon, in paper, are finished on the grill, to allow the fire to absorb the oleaginous matter adhering to the meat; as also are fish-cutlets en papillate. A connoisseur has stated to us, that if a beef-steak be soaked for a few minutes in pyro- ligneous acid, and afterwards broiled, such addition will add to the tender- ness of the meat, as well as its flavour: we are of opinion that a good steak requires no such adventitious assistance. Dr. Paris, on “Diet,” states, that by this operation the sudden browning or hardening of the surface prevents the evaporation of the juices of the meat, which impart a peculiar tenderness to it. It is the form selected, as the most eligible, by those who seek to invigorate themselves by the art of training. Simple Fare.—A hospitable gentleman, residing in Hobart Town, a few years since, was in the habit of inviting his friends to a steak dinner, the course only consisting of three dishes artistically cooked. There were the steaks stewed with onions, the steaks fried with sauce, and the steaks on the plain grill—with the addition of cut shalots, to those who liked the relish. The latter were brought in by relays—hot and hot—a steak at a time. They were cut not too thick nor too thin, and there were plenty of excellent vegetables; and the Amphitryon would only allow his guests “to run riot” on most superior claret of first growth. This simple repast could hardly be excelled, and it would certainly have satisfied the fastidious taste of the author of the “ Original,” or of any even more scrupulous feeder than Mr. Walker. A Tragedian’s Dish.—Kean enjoyed a beef-steak at the Coal Hole, or a devil, or a grill, at one of the small taverns near the theatre; but the dress and ceremony, and good behaviour incident to “ company,” overset him altogether.—Proctor’s Life of Kean. VII!.—MADE DISHES. Just so many strange dishes.—Benedick, in “ Much Ado about Nothing.” Zranzy.—Cub lean beef into thin slices, sprinkle them with salt, and beat them to flatten them. Make a forcemeat of boiled meat, sausage meat, parsley and lemon-peel chopped fine, three eggs, some bread crumbs soaked in milk and drained, and a little curdled milk. Spread some of this forcemeat on each slice of beef, roll it up and tie and put it into a fitewpan, with a bay leaf, lemon-peel, onion stuck with cloves, pepper - c 2