215 . MOSSES. the stones were red-hot one-half were taken out, food put in, water sprinkled on to generate steam, and the whole covered with fresh leaves, hot stones, and earth.— Thomson’s “New Zealand.’’ XCI-MOSSES. Cookery is an art appreciated by only a few individuals, and which requires, in addi- tion to a most studious and diligent application, no small share of intellect, and the strictest sobriety and punctuality.—Ude. Carrageen Moss (Choudrus Crispus).—This Irish moss is soothing nnd strengthening to the stomach. It is cooked by being cleaned suffi- ciently in water, and then boiled; or a decoction of it may be taken by those subject to pulmonary complaints. It is a very economical substi- tute for isinglass in orange, lemon, or savoury jellies, or blanc-mange. It is cooked in a similar way to laver, and served with meat of any kind. It is a most nutritious vegetable, if it can be called such. It is the pearl moss, and the decoction or jelly is a useful and popular demulcent and emollient: often employed by cooks and confectioners. It is excellent for clarifying beer and wines, or for any purpose where isinglass is used ; and, according to Zimmermann, when combined with tartar emetic, a little of it goes a great way in clearing worts. It is found in the Australias, but its usefulness is not generally known. Ceylon Moss (Plocaria Candida).—This moss is exported from the islands of the Indian Archipelago, forming a portion of the cargoes of nearly all the junks. It is stated by Mr. Crawford, in his “ History of the Indian Archipelago,” that on the spots where it is collected, the prices seldom exceed from 5s. 8d. to 7s. Cd. per cwt. The Chinese use it in the form of jelly with sugar, as a sweetmeat, and apply it in the arts as an excellent paste. The quantity of nitrogen contained in these plants is remarkably large, and will, of course, account for the high nutritive value ascribed to them.—TJre. Dr. Macgowan, of Mingpo, forwarded, through Sir John Bowring, the following algse, which he thus names and transcribes :— Tan-shivin grass, so named from the place, on the coast of Formosa, whence it is procured. It is used for making yang-tsai (ocean vegetable). Nin-mau (ox-hair) grass: made into an iced jelly, and sold in the streets in hot weather, sugared. Hdi-tai (sea-tape).—It is usually boiled with pork. J'sz-tsai (purple vegetable).—Eaten to give a relish to rice. Fali-tsai (hair vegetable).—Boiled either with animal or vegetable articles. Ki-tsai (hen-foot vegetable).—Cooked with soy or vinegar. Sea- tape, from Japan : it is preferred to the former.—Society of Arts' Journal. A Proper Host.—Mr. Canning’s fund of animal spirits, and the extreme irritability of his temperament, were such as to hurry him, noUntum volentum, into the full rush, and flush of conviviality. At the latter period of his life, when his health began to break, he would sit down, with an evident determination to be abstinent—eat spar- ingly of the simplest soup, take no sauce with his fish, and mix water with his wine;