286 CONCLUSION. to discharge the other, by sitting the usual number of hours at his deso- late table. With a heavy heart he resigned himself to the gloom-of his own thoughts. A lethargic sleep stole over him ; his head fell upon his bosom; confused images crowded into his mind; he babbled to himself; was silent; and when his servant entered the room, alarmed by a noise which he heard, he found his master stretched upon the carpet at the foot of the easy chair, out of which he had slipped in an apoplectic fit. He never spoke again, nor once opened his eyes, though the vital spark was- not extinct till the following day. And this was the last dixner.” Inns.—All the comforts of life in a tavern are known, ’Tis his home who possesses not one of his own; And to him who has rather too much of that one, ’Tis the house of a friend, where you’re welcome to run. The instant you enter my door you’re my lord, With whose taste and whose pleasure I’m proud to accord j And the louder you call, and the longer you stay. The more I am happy to serve and obey. To the house of a friend, if you’re pleased to retire, You must all things admit, you must all things admire ; You must pay, with observance, the price of your treat; You must eat what is praised, and praise what you eat. But here you may come, and no tax we require; You may loudly condemn what you greatly admire; You may growl at our wishes and pains to excel. And may snarl at the rascals who please you so well.—Crabba. CXV.—CONCLUSION Now good digestion wait on appetite,- And health on both.—Macbeth. We now bring our aristological labours to an end, and it is necessary- that we should state that we have not, as a general rule, given the periods when game or fish are in season, nor have we fixed the time that dishes would take to have them ready for the palate. - To do so is im- possible, for it depends entirely on the radiation of heat to which they are subject. The economy of heat is not well understood by many cooks; some will waste more fuel thau others could make an excellent fire of. The celebrated Count Rumford, who was well up in this subject, once dined a thousand persons at Munich, and the cost of the fuel was four- pence halfpenny; so writes Sir Richard Phillips. Francis of Austria once declared that, in his opinion, it required as much talent to warm a room as to govern a kingdom. The emperor might have said more, ac- cording to his judgment, as he was not well versed in the rationale of government. A fortiori, if it requires ability to warm a room, it needs nous to keep up the same continuous degree of heat in the range, as well a$ to govern men, unless, according to the dictum of the celebrated Chancellor Oxenstiern, that little wisdom was required to rule the nations of the world; the truth of which axiom is partially exemplified by such a number of stupid people being found in the ministries at home, and in