136 TEA. first sieve, and form young hyson; the roundest, granular ones fall tlirough last, and constitute gunpowder, or choo-clia. Tea in Eussia.—T1i0 Russians attribute the superiority of their tea to the fact that it is sent overland from China, and does not get spoiled by the sea air. I should be in- clined to think that the real reason is that it comes from provinces in China near the Russian frontier, where there is a better growth of tea than in the provinces from which comes the article we use. I think, also, that they understand infusing the tea better than we do. They drink it as soon as the boiling water is poured on it, whilst we allow it to stand until it becomes as black as one’s hat, and as bitter as hops. The gentlemen tit i 1 i tea in tumblers, without milk, sometimes adding a slice of lemon; whilst the ladies take it in cups, with any amount of cream. We were afterwards, especially when travelling on the Moscow and Nijni railroads, surprised at the large and constant use of this beverage at all hours of the day and night; hut we very soon became as large consumers of it as the native Russians themselves. Indeed, after a night m the railway carriage, we found a tumbler of tea in the early morning more exhila- rating than the “ blest sherbet,” and more refreshing than even hock and soda-water. When at St. Petersburg, we bought a small quantity of a fine sample of caravan tea, for which we paid at the rate of thirty-eight shillings the pound (about ten dollars) • but, of course, this was one of the fancy sorts, and not that which is in common use| which costs about six shillings and sixpence the pound. At the shop where we boaght this tea, we were informed that they had some as high as seventy shillings the pound. As we were accompanied by a resident in the city who always dealt there, we knew that we were not being victimised.—Bentley's Miscellany. Physiology of Tea-Drinking.—Tea is indeed a great fact in our present mode of life. It has been the making of an additional meal among us since the good old days, when people lived on three meals a day. Justice has scarcely been done to the magnitude of the change which has hap- pened since the time when gentlemen—ay, and ladies too—took beer to their early breakfast; when they dined at eleven, supped between five and six, and went to bed at ten. Tea and coffee have been the principal cause of this revolution.—The Lancet. Lovers of tea and coffee are, in fact, rarely drinkers; and hence the use of these beverages has benefited both manners and morals. Raynal observes that the use of tea has contributed more "to the sobriety of the Chinese than the severest laws, the most eloquent discourses, or the best treatises on morality. Paris writes, “ In enumerating the advantages of tea, it must not be forgotten that it has introduced and cherished a spirit of sobriety ; and it must have been remarked by every physician of general practice, that those persons who dislike tea generally supply its place with alcoholic liquors.” Ure states that the quality of tea depends much on the season when the leaves are picked, the mode in which it is prepared, as well as on the district in which it grows. Green tea, it is stated, is coloured by the application of an extract of indigo, of Prussian blue, and gypsum; and the fine odour which renders the “flowery” kinds remarkable is derived from the leaves of olea fragrans, a species of camellia, and other similar plants. The most remarkable products in tea are—1st, tannin ; 2nd, an essential oil, to which it owes its aroma, and which has great influence on its commercial value; 3rd, a crystalline substance, very rich in nitrogen—theine—which is also met with in coffee (whence it is frequently termed caffeine), and which is found in Guarana, a remedy highly valued by the Brazilians. Besides these three, M. Mulder extracted from tea eleven other substances, which are usually met with in all leaves. The same chemist found, in the various kinds of