199 VINEGAR. Vinegar.—This term is applied to various modifications of the acetic acid. The simplest mode of obtaining vinegar is to excite a second or acetous fermentation in wine. In this case oxygen is absorbed, a variable proportion of carbonic acid gas is generally evolved, and the alcohol of the wine passes into acetic acid. Very good vinegar is also made from strong beer, or from a wort of infusion of malt prepared for the purpose, or from a decoction of common raisins, or from a mixture of about one part of brandy with eight of water, and some sugar and yeast.—Brande. CMli Vinegar.—Put an ounce of cayenne pepper, or the same quan- tity of the green birds’-eye chillies, to a pint of vinegar, and allow the infusion to remain a month. You may filter it if you please, or not. Tarragon, basil, cress, mint, cucumber, garlic, sbalot, horseradish, celery, and other ingredients, steeped in plain vinegar, will give out the several flavours, according to the vegetables used. Disciples of the epicurean school prefer the flavour of the tarragon and shalot. Vinegar in Twenty-four Hours.—The whole philosophy of the manufacture of vinegar is included in the word oxydation. The alcohol contaiued in cider, beer, or wine, combining with the oxygen of the atmosphere, bocoiaes acetic acid, which, in a diluted state, is vinegar. The methods usually pursued in the domestic manufacture of this article are, to say the least of them, susceptible of improvement. The conversion of good cider into vinegar, by exposure to the air in casks, requires weeks and even months to accomplish, because only a small surface is exposed at one time to the oxydising action of the atmosphere. By exposing a large surface of the liquor to the atmosphere, oxydation takes place with corresponding rapidity, and the process may be completed in from twenty-four to twenty-eight hours. The method of accomplishing this rapid acetification, which has long been known to scientific men and manufacturers, may be pursued in private houses without difficulty, as follows:—Take a clean flour barrel, aud bore auger lioles all arouud the sides and in the bottom ; set it over a tub or open cask, and fill it lightly with beech shavings which have been soaked in vinegar. On the top of this barrel, which is open, lay two strips of wood', and rest on these a pail filled with cider, beer, or the like; procure fifteen lengths of cotton wicking, about thirty inches long, which, after dipping in the liquid, arrange round the side of the pail at regular intervals, so that one end of each will be hanging in the cider and the other hanging down outside, and below the bottom of the pail. By means of these wicks the pail will be gradually emptier of its contents, which, trickling over the shavings, will be exposed to the air, absorb oxygen, and finally be received in the tub beneath. By returning the liquor into the pail above, and suffering this trickling process to be repeated two or three times, a splendid vinegar will be obtained. The whole secret of the process lies in the mechanical increase of surface accomplished by the shavings.—Scientific American. The above process will be rendered much more efficient by being per- formed in a room heated to 809 or higher. The Avhole apparatus should be covered with a tight hogshead, without a head, turned upside down. Without this, the loss by evaporation will be great.— Californian Farmer. Sugar, Cider, Fruit, and Beer Vinegars.—An excellent vinegar may