30 . SAUCES. mixed add six table-spoonfuls more water, bold it over the fire, and let it simmer till thick, turning it one way. No branch of cookery is so easily performed, yet how seldom do we have it well made—generally a watery fluid, from sheer neglect. It was an observation of a gourmet—of a late learned judge (Baron Hulloek)—,:tliat lie was an excellent and learned man—be had always the best melted butter ever tasted.” And the “ Almanach des Gourmands” avers “ that a delicious sauce will cause you to eat an elephant.” As a rule, never pour sauce of any kind over any dish, as we have known persons prefer salt with pudding. It is related of Dr. Johnson that he used lobster sauce with plum pudding. Tastes are widely different, as much so as faces. Chacun a son gout. Clarified Butter,—Put the butter in a stewpan, over a clear fire; when it is melted skim off the butter-milk, which will swim at the top; then pour off the butter into a basin to cool. Burnt Butter,—Put butter into a pan ; when it becomes brown add a little vinegar and pepper and salt. Oiled Butter,—Put butter into a pan, and let it gradually melt till it comes to an oil. This oiled butter may be used for frying fish, instead of Florence oil, and is excellent for salads or frying. Anchovy, Harvey, sauce a la Soyer, lemon, caper, parsley, fennel, slialofc, chervil, Basil, Burnet, cress, and egg sauce, are merely these several ingredients added to melted butter. Gooseberry Sauce.—Top and tail and scald half a pint of green gooseberries, drain them, and put them to the same quantity of melted butter; a little lemon or ginger is an improvement. Tomato Sauce.—Take fifteen ripe tomatoes, cut them in half, and squeeze them; put them into a stewpan, with a capsicum and a few spoonfuls of gravy ; simmer for an hour, run them through a sieve; add pepper, salt, and onion cut small, or a shalot. Onion Sauce,—Take two dozen onions and peel them, put them in salt and water for an hour, and then boil them until tender; drain them, and chop them up. Put them in a clean saucepan, with some butter and flour, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and about half a pint of milk (cream would be richer), and simmer till done. Sage and Onion Sauce.—Chop fine an ounce of onion and half an ounce of green sage leaves, put them into a stewpan, with a little water ; simmer for ten minutes; then put in a tea-spoonful of pepper and salt and an ounce of bread crumbs; mix together ; then pour in a pint of gravy or broth, and simmer a little longer. Excellent for roast pork or ducks. Mint Sauce,—Wash a small quantity of fresh mint with a little parsley, pick the stalks out, mince them fine, and put in a sauceboat.,^ with a tea-spoonful of moist sugar, and a quarter of a pint of vinegar. If mint cannot be procured this sauce can be made with mint vinegar. Apple Sauce.—Pare and core six baking apples, put them into a