102 CIDER 'AND PERRY. Seasonings. — Autiplianes, in his “ Leaeas,” gives the following catalogue of seasonings:— “ Dried grapes, and salt, and eke new wine. Newly boiled down, and assafcetida. And cheese, and thyme, and sesame. And nitre, too, and cinnamon seed. And sumach, honey, and marjoram, And herbs, and vinegar, and oil, And sauce of onions, mustard, and capers mix’d. And parsley, capers, too, and eggs. And lime, and cardamums, and tli acid juice Which comes from the green fig-tree; besides lard, • And eggs, and honey, and flour, wrapp’d in fig-leave3. And all compounded in one savoury forcemeat.” “ Athmceus,” translated by Yonge. Diet.—There is not so much harm proceeding from the substance itself of meat and quality of it, in ill-dressing and preparing, as there is from the quantity, disorden of time and place, unseasonable use of it, intemperance, over-much or over-little taking of it. A true saying is, “ Plures crapula quam gladius (this gluttony kills more than the sword) ; this omnino rantio, et Uomicida gula (this all-devouring and murdering gut) ” And that of Pliny is truer“ Simple diet is the best. Heaping up of several meats is pernicious, and sauces worse: many dishes bring many diseases.” Avicen cries out, that “nothing is worse than to feed on many dishes, or to protract the time of meals longer than ordinary : from thence proceed our infirmities; and ’tis the fountain of all diseases, which arise out of the repugnancy of gross humours.”—Burton’s “ Anatomy of Melancholy,” 1651. XXX.—ClDER AND PERRY. Let me efface the first term—epicurism, which is so injuriously and so falsely applied to the philosopher, from whom it takes its name, and let me not confound his refined moral system -with the indulgence in sensual enjoyments of those professing themselves epicureans.—Lady Blessington. Cider and perry are the fermented juice of the apple and the pear, and they are a very ancient beverage, as Pliny calls them “ the wine of apples and pears.” The rennets are the best kind of apples for cider, as their specific gravity is greater than any other. Apples are classed into bitter, sweet, and sour. The bitter are the best for cider, as the juice is the richest in sugar, ferments most readily, and keeps best after fermen- tation. As a general rule, apples and pears for cider and perry are not the kinds in table use, so the farmer must decide, in planting an orchard, for what purpose he intends to make it available. The process of making cider and perry varies in different places. The first operation is the collection of the fruit, which are generally left for a fortnight in a barn to mellow, and the unsound fruit are separated, as they impart a bad flavour to the liquor, and impede its clarification. The expression of the juice is the next step; the fruit is crushed in mills containing fluted cylinders of hard wood or cast-iron. The general practice is to sprinkle the pulp with a quarter of its weight in spring water, and allow it to remain in wooden tubs or cisterns for twelve or fourteen hours, during which time the fermentation commences. The pulp is then run through hair- cloth or coarse canvas bags, and subject to pressure. The first liquor is the best. The juice is then placed in casks, and kept full, so that the