GAME. 83 tthe flavour and consistency of the steamer. Serve with sippets of toasted 'bread, and if you would have a “steamer superlative,” garnish round with nicely-fried balls of the same forcemeat as directed for the roast 1 kangaroo. The two preceding recipes are from the pen of an Australian lady, who combines in her own person the desideratum of literary ability with becoming attention to house- ; hold affairs. Kangaroo Steamer (Prize Recipe).—Take the most tender part of , the kangaroo, being careful to remove all the sinews. Chop it very fine, about the same quantity of smoked bacon (fat) ; season with finely- i powdered marjoram, pepper, and a very little salt. Let it steam, or stew, for two hours; then pack or press tight in open-mouthed glass bottles; the bung must be sealed down, and the outside of the bottles washed well with white of egg, beaten ; preserved in this way it will keep good for twelve months or more. When needed for use, the vessel con- taining the preserve should be put into a saucepan of cold water, and . allowed to boil for fifteen minutes (if a large bottle) ; when dished, pour a little rich brown gravy over it, flavoured with mace, salt, and pepper; i garnish with forcemeat balls. If required for immediate use, half an hour will cook it sufficiently; no gravy will be necessary. Forcemeat balls without bacon will be found a great improvement. Mrs. Sarah Crouch, the lady of the respected Under-Sheriff of Tasmania, obtained a Prize Medal for the above at the Exhibition of 1862, and has allowed us to make public the recipe. The dish was partaken of by the guests of the Acclimatisation Society, at the London dinner of that year. Lord Stanley in the chair. Several speakers com- mented on the goodness of the “steamer.” Sir John Maxwell, a first-rate judge, pronounced it excellent, as a stew, and said that he should like to see it introduced into the Navy. It is understood that Prince Napoleon, one of the first gastronomers of the day, was desirous to acclimatise the kangaroo to Prance, for the sake of the cuisine ihe animal affords. Melville’s “Australasia” has it, that the flesh of the kangaroo is, perhaps, the most nutritious and most easily digested of any known to man! Boast Kangaroo (Author's Recipe).—The hind quarters of a medium- sized brush kangaroo is to be larded with bacon, and put down to roast. It must be well basted, and stuffed with good veal stuffing. Make some forcemeat balls and put in the dripping-pan to warm ; serve with some good gravy, properly made, and currant jelly. The kangaroo, in being roasted, can be basted with either good dripping or milk—the latter is best. This dish must be well but not over-done. Meat and game are larded as followsA strip of bacon is inserted in a larding needle—a short steel needle, with a spring opening instead of an eye, so that the bacon is introduced—and when passed through a part of the meat the slit opens and it is left there. A batter for roast kangaroo or haro may be made thus—with two spoonfuls of salad oil, a couple of eggs, a little cream and salt. Baste the kangaroo or hare with it at the time of roasting. Eitcoonter with A Gigantic Old Man Kangaroo, or Boomar.—As John Thomas Patterson, of Sugar-loaf Flat, Tarlo, was proceeding on horseback through the bush in the vicinity of his residence, he was attracted by the yelping of three or four of his dogs near to a thick piece of brushwood, and riding up, lie came upon them attacking an immense old man kangaroo. One of the dogs was alreudy dead, rent asunder by the claws of tho monster, and two others were also wounded, and were still tackling it. No sooner did G 2