VEGETABLES. 118 meats; the mildness of the latter vegetable when thus cooked is well known, although we are told in All’s Well that Ends Well, “Mine eyes smell onions; I shall weep anon." Stewed celery is an addition to various roast joints, and is made as follows :— Take off the outside and the green ends of the celery, boil them in water till tender put in a slice of lemon, a little mace, thicken with butter and flour. Beat up an egg or two, grate in some nutmeg, mix with a table-spoonful of cream, put to it half a cupful of gravy or stock, and let it simmer until sufficiently thick. Serve hot, as every dish should be. The Taro.—Among its vegetables, too, is found the “taro” (arum esculentum). It formed the staple of food, and is still very generally used. Tins succulent root was sometimes cooked, but was more generally pounded into a semi-fluid mess, and allowed partially to ferment, when it was called poi. Among the reasons which made some Hawaiians object to visiting England was that poi could not he obtained here. It is so productive, that it has been said, a taro pit a few yards in length will supply food for one man throughout the year.—“Historical Account of the Sandwich Islands," by Hopkins. Macedoine of Vegetables.—Take an equal quantity of carrots and turnips, cut them of the size of almonds, peel a dozen button onions, put all in a saucepan with a piece of butter; let them brown gently, add a little gravy and some mushrooms, young beans, French beans, haricots, and some Brussels sprouts (the last must be parboiled), some asparagus plants, and the tops of a cauliflower, with a teaspoon of sugar; let them all boil gently ; just before serving thicken the sauce with a little flour, and serve. How to Preserve Vegetables.—Gather the vegetables when at maturity, string them on twine, and suspend them under a roof of rather low temperature, so that you may not dry them too fast. When you find them getting a little crisp, you may pack them in a box, and keep them in a dry, airy place, and you will find them ready for use. I have succeeded with the following:—White beet, red, white, and green cabbage, spinach—the larger the leaf the better, as you get a large quantity with the same trouble. Spinach answers admirably ; indeed, you can prepare any description of vegetable, and have them ready for consumption, so that it will require a keen taste to know the difference between them and those freshly plucked from the garden. Boil them in the ordinary way, adding a little soda, to bring out the colour. By doing as described you may have, when the hot winds are blowing, and every sign of vegetable gone, your vegetable garden flourishing in your pantry, every variety in full bloom, independent of showers or irrigation.—Correspondent to the “Pastoral Times" (New South Wales). Potatoes, in whatever condition, whether spoiled by frost, germination, &c., pro- vided they are raw, constantly afford starch, differing only in quality—the round grey ones the most, a pound producing two ounces.—Parmentier on “ Nutritive Vegetables." The Potato.—Next to bread there is no vegetable article the preparation of which, as food, deserves to be more attended to than the potato.—Sir John Sinclair's “ Code of Health." The potato is the cause of the moral and physical degeneration of the nations that use it.—Professor Mulder. Since the days of Cook the New Zealanders have lived upon potatoes, the lowest species of human food.—Dr. Thomson’s “ New Zealand.” The well known root of the Solatium tuberosum. Many methods at different times have been tried for preserving potatoes in an unchangeable state, and always ready to be dressed as a wholesome and nutritious dish, but none equal to Mr. Daones Edwards, for which he obtained a patent in 1840.—Ure. Its use as a subordinate and subsidiary species of food is attended with the best efforts, producing both an increase of comfort and security ; but there are certain circumstances inseparable from it which would seem to oppose the most formidable obstacles to its advantageous use as a prime article of sub- sistence. . . . We are inclined to estimate the yearly value of the produce of potatoes in the Empire at twelve millions.—M'Culloch’s “ Commercial Dictionary.” The vegetable kingdom affords no food more wholesome, more easily procured, easily prepared, and less expensive than the potato.—Kitchincr. Amongst the farinaceous aliments the potato holds a distinguished rank; but its digestibility greatly depends on its kind, and the nature of the cookery to which it is subjected.— Paris. “ Who shall decide when doctors disagree. And soundest casuists doubt, like you and me?”