139 DINNER CEREMONIAL. or causes to be carved by some expert friend, the more important dishes in their order; from his hand nothing is to be refused, and all ceremonies would be an awkward want of tact. “ ‘During the first course, every one drinks as he likes. During the second, the Amphitryon, in circulating the finer wines, requests you to take a glass. It would be uncivil to refuse ; but you are not bound to take a second unless you like. So soon as the dessert appears, the rights and duties of the host lose much of their importance; all he has left to do is to give such a tone to the conversation as that all may take a part in it. It is still he, however, who gives the signal for leaving the table. All then rise together, and leave the eating-room for the drawing-room, where coffee is ready. This time the master of the house goes last. At the moment when the coffee is handed round, the drawing-room presents an aspect of joyous disorder: knots of talkers have got together—the physiognomies of all wear an air of satisfaction and self-complacency— each, armed with his cup, inhales the boiling mocha. Ere long the circle is formed, the conversation becomes general, the card-tables are set. Politeness requires you to remain an hour at least after a comfort- able dinner. When you have your whole evening at your disposal, it is as well to devote it to your Amphitryon.’ “ The injunction to gentlemen to take care of their fair neighbours is of universal applicability; but we would not recommend too close an attention to their glasses or their plates. A distinguished maximist says that whenever you ask a lady to take wine, you should fill her glass to the brim, in spite of her protestations, and look the other way till she has emptied it. Without going the full length of this philosopher’s assump- tion, it stands to reason that, the number of glasses women allow thqm- selves being limited, they should be full.” The reviewer proceeds to remark on the dinner-hour : “ Germany, where the dinner-hour is generally one. In Italy it is five; in Paris, six; in London, half-past seven or eight. It is the custom to rail in good set terms against the prevalent fashion in this particular, but with little reason, for it is hardly possible to give oneself up to the full enjoyment of a convivial meeting until the business of the day has been despatched; and it should be remembered that when people dine early they require suppers, which are equally injurious to health. There is another reason. During the summer months women unconsciously betray a consciousness that daylight is unfavourable to charms which have undergone a course of London balls, or are no longer in the first freshness of youth, and can seldom be got to present themselves in a drawing-room before eight.” Ale and porter are rigidly proscribed, on European authority, as the ne plus ultra of vulgarity. We presume from this that Lord Mulgrave’s novels do not enjoy an extended circulation in America; for in one of these a gallant attempt is made to disabuse the public as to beer. “ Is. not that a fashionable novelist opposite?” says an exquisite. “Well, I’ll astonish the fellow. Here, bring me a glass of beer.” What is still worse, the interdict has extended to port.