vi1 INTRODUCTORY PREFACE. should bo treated like the wife of the Arab, whom Eastern writers say is discarded, and another one taken on, if the first cannot make good bread. In these days of divorces, I would commend this hint to the especial attention of Sir James P. Wylde, with a hope that he will consider the propriety of making a precedent on the point, which would do a power of good. There should be no anfractuosity in a dinner, to borrow a word from the great lexicographer; it should pass off “ right slick well.” With John Bull, ’tis. the dinner that unlocks the heart, and nothing can be done in commerce, religion, politics, and philanthropy without the assistance of some entertainment, from the Royal recherche banquets of the Queen, the more bountiful Lord Mayors’ feasts, the English Ministerial and whitebait dinners, the Governors’ and Cabinet feeds at the Antipodes, to the every-day parties in social life, where more generally prevails “ Tlic feast of reason, and the flow of soul." In the “ Incidents of Travel,” by Stephens, how delighted he was, when a long way up the Nile, to receive an invitation to dinner from an English family ! He writes:—• Few things tend to give a better opinion of a man, of his intelligence, his piety and morals than by receiving from him an invitation to dinner.’ Perhaps the author on this occasion goes a little too far; but I give the extract to show the effect of a kindly-intended invite, and how it is appreciated, even in the desert. A premier of Tasmania once obtained far more political support from his dinners than the measures of his government. On one occasion, a Member of the Assembly was returned, and, as a matter of course, wa3 expected to join the Opposition, to which he belonged. Mr. invited him to a recherche refection. He voted with his Amphi- tryon ever afterwards, on the gastronomical rule—that you ought never to oppose a man after you have put your legs under his well-spread mahogany, at least for a given number of days, leaving it open to renew the obligation by a refresher. I would remind the good housewife (for I address no other) that one dish properly cooked is worth a dozen badly done: good cookery is the cheapest in the end. The smaller the dinner, the better chance of its being well served ; besides, a large party has no semblance of sociality. To use a Chinese metaphor, the guests merely assemble to make face. In an interesting brochure, under the modest designation of “ Hints for the Table,” the compiler cite3 a descriptive account of the facetious Foote, showing that large parties are often failures :— “ As to splendour, as far as it went, I admit there was a very fine sideboard of plate; and if a man could have s fallowed a silversmith's shop, there was enough to