07 FISH. stewpan, and let it simmer for about twenty minutes, according to the size of the fish ; take the fish out, and lay it on a hot hearth in a dish ; thicken the liquor that it was stewed in with a little flour, and season with pepper, salt, anchovy, and mushroom ketchup, and chilli vinegar. "When it has boiled about ten minutes, either pour it over the fish or return the fish into the stewpan to warm. The flesh of any fish is in the highest perfection, or in season, as it is called, during the period of the ripening of the milt and roe. After it has deposited the spawn, the flesh becomes soft, and loses a great deal of its peculiar flavour. This is owing to the disappearance of the oil or fat from the fish, it having been expended in the function of reproduction.—Fleming’s Phil. of Zoology. Maigre Fish,—Put the fish into a stewpan, with a shredded onion, a few cloves, allspice, and pepper; just cover it with boiling water; let it simmer for about twenty minutes; strain the liquor into another pan, leaving the fish to keep warm, until the sauce is ready; rub well together as much butter and flour as will thicken. To each pint of sauce add a glass of wine, a little ketchup and anchovy, aud cayenne; let it simmer for a time, and pour over the fish; garnish with sippets of bread toasted or fried. This is a very palatable mode of dressing fish for those whose religious tenets do not allow of eating meat on maigre days. Salt Fish.—Salted fish generally requires soaking, according to the time they are salted. Put it into plenty of cold water, and let it simmer till done. Egg sauce and boiled beet are an accompaniment, with yolks of hard-boiled eggs. Twice-laid, for Fast-days, is made from any kind of fish, either fresh or salt, mixed with mashed potatoes, with a little butter, and browned before the fire, in the proportion of about one-fourth fish to three-fourths potatoes. This is a very acceptable dish to Catholics on maigre days. Small Fish, Fried.—Clean them well, and let them dry; fry them plain or egg them; put plenty of dripping or lard into the pan, and as soon as the fat boils put them in and brown them ; they will hardly take a couple of minutes. Drain them in a hair sieve, and serve. Lobsters, &c.—Lobsters, crayfish, crabs, prawns, and shrimps—these may be eaten au naturel, made into sauce, or potted; if the latter, the meat is all picked out and pounded in a mortar, with a little mace, cayenne, butter, black pepper, and salt. The crab is highly esteemed by epicures, and is eaten with the second course, according to the diction of the late editor of the “ Original.” Lobsters and other shell-fish should be killed before being boiled. Luxurious lobster-nights, farewell, For sober, studious days ! And Burlington’s delicious meal. For salads, tarts, and pease ! —Pope’s ‘‘Farewell lo London," 1715. Whitebait, The fish should be dressed within an hour after being caught, or they are apt to cling together. They are kept in water, from H