105 CONFECTIONERY. it into a cream-dish. After it is cold, put the snow on the surface to make the sauce. Snow Cream.—Put into a stewpan four ounces of ground rice, two ounces of sugar, a few drops of essence of lemon, with two ounces of butter; add a quart of milk; boil for about twenty minutes, until it is smooth, but not too thick. Pour it into a mould, or basin, which has been rinsed with butter, to let it set and cool. Italian Cream.—An elegant dish. Boil a pint and a half of milk, and when it is boiling infuse the peel of an orange and lemon until the milk is flavoured. Put in a little salt, three ounces of pounded lump sugar, and the yolks of six eggs; add a sufficient quantity of isinglass, dissolved, to make it tenacious ; put it into moulds until cold. To take it from the mould, dip a cloth in hot water, and rub round the mould ; the cream will then turn out entire. French Cream.—Dilute a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot or potato starch in a small quantity of cold water; put a pint and a half of milk to boil in a saucepan. When it boils, add a little salt, three ounces of pounded white sugar, and the diluted arrowroot or starch. When the milk has sufficiently thickened, put to it the yolks of eight eggs, well beaten, and a table-spoonful of orauge-flower water. Stir the whole sufficiently, and pour into a cream-dish. Lemon Cream.—Make a quart of good lemonade sweet. When so made, strain it, and put it into a stewpan over the fire. Add the yolks of eight eggs, well beaten up, and stir the cream well. Put it intc cream- glasses, or a cream-dish; if to be put in moulds, add a small quantity of dissolved isinglass. Custards.—Take a pint and a half of milk, and put it on the fire in a clean saucepan ; when it boils add a bit of lemon-peel, a couple of peach- leaves, a salt-spoonful of salt, and two ounces and a half of powdered white sugar. Let the jnilk simmer until it has acquired the flavour of the lemon-peel and peach-leaves, but keep stirring it all the time, or it will burn. Use a wooden spoon for this purpose. Have the yolks of eight eggs ready beaten up, put them into the milk, and stir the whole over the fire until the custard is thick. If it boils or becomes too hot it will curdle. When cold put mto glasses. Yanilla Custards are made in a similar way, only leaving out the lemon-peel and peach-leaves, and pour in four drops of essence of vanilla, or boiling a drachm of vanilla, cut into bits, with the milk. Coffee custards, chocolate, tea, and other flavouring ingredients, are added to the milk and eggs, and take the name of the article used. Blanc-mange.—To one quart of milk add an ounce of isinglass, a quarter of a pound of the best sugar, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, a little grated nutmeg, half the peel of a lemon, and a bayleaf; simmer over a slow fire till the isinglass is dissolved, and strain it through a