201 THE DINNER HOUR. the clocke before noone. The usuall time for dinner in the universities is n.t eleaven, or elsewhere about noone.” Grace at meat was often said in metre in the time of Shakespeare. In the play of “ Timon of Athens ” there is an instance of a metrical grace, by Apemantus (Act I., Scene 2). Dr. Johnson says that metrical graces are to be found in the primers; but Archdeacon Nares could not meet ■with them.—Things not Generally Known. The time for dinner, according to an old saying, is, for the rich, when they can get an appetite ; and for the poor, when they can get food. We append the grace alluded to in the above remarks :— Apemantus’ Grace. Immortal gods ! I crave no pelf, I pray for no man but myself: Grant that I may never prove so fond. To trust a man on his oath or bond; Or a harlot for her weeping; Or a dog that seems a-sleeping; Or a keeper with my freedom; Or my friends if I should need ’em. Amen. So fall to’t: Rich men sin, and I eat root. \_Eats and drinks. English After-dinner Custom.—There was one thing the Emperor did not like, nor did he hesitate to say so: the length of time passed by the English at their repasts. He, whose restless activity would not allow him, when alone, to-spend more than a few minutes at table, would not consent to remain there for hours with the English. The Admiral (Cockbum) soon perceived that his national customs must yield to such a guest, and when dinner was finished, rose, and, with'his staff, stood until Napoleon had left the room, offering him his hand if the motion of the vessel were unsteady, and then Tetumed to indulge his English habits ■with his officers.—“ History of the Consulate and, the Empire,’' by Thiers. Ariston.—According to the lexicons, the Greek for dinner is ariston, and therefore, for the convenience of terms, and without entering into inquiry, critical or antiquarian, I call the art of dining Aristology, and those who study it, Aristologists.—The Original. Socrates, who afterwards turns out to be the builder of the State, descends to the Peiras, in company with Glaucon, the son of -Ariston, for the purpose of performing his devotions to Artemus, and beholding the Bendidia, a splendid festival in honour of that goddess.—Analysis of Plato’s Republic, by J. A. St. John. A very great personage in a foreign, but not remote country, once mentioned to the writer of these pages that he ascribed the superiority of the English in political life— in their conduct of public business and practical views of affairs—in a great measure to that “ little half-hour” that separates, after dinner, the dark from the fair sex. The writer humbly submitte"', that if the period of disjunction was strictly limited to a “little half-hour,” its salutary consequences for both sexes need not be disputed; but that, in England, the “little half-hour” was apt to swell into a time of for more awful character and duration.—Coningsby. LXXX.—ELIZABETHAN LIVING. The art of feeding is a science which affects the well-being of twenty million citizens of England.—The London “ Times." It is the vulgar idea that Queen Elizabeth’s maids of honour break- fasted on beef-steaks and ale, and that wine was such a rarity as only to be sold by apothecaries as a cordial. The science of good living was as