G1 PASTRY. make this preparation too liquid. It is almost certain that about five or six eggs will be wanted for the above quantity; then form them en choux, by which is meant, in the shape of a ball, an inch in circumference. As this paste swells very much, you must dress it accordingly, putting the choux on a baking-sheet, at an inch distance from each other, in order that they may undergo a greater effect in the oven. Brush them over, as usual, with the doune, or egg-wash, to which has been added a little milk. Put them into an oven moderately hot, but do not open the oven till they are quite baked, otherwise they would flatten, and all attempts to make them rise again would be found to be useless ; next, dry them, sometimes you may glaze them, or not. To detach them from the baking-sheet, apply the sharp end of a knife, and take them off gently. Then make a small opening in the side of the choux, into which put with a tea-spoon such sweetmeats as you think proper, and send them up dished en buisson. Mrs, ’s Pastry.—Take flour, and butter, and dripping" enough to make the crust—half butter and half dripping, and to one pound of flour put half the weight of butter; rub the flour and butter well together; then beat up one or two eggs, with sufficient warm water to mix the flour; roll once. This is the recipe of an elegant Australian lady, whose fair hands could fabricate by this simple mode crust infinitely superior to any professional daubing; and as a matter of course, its intrinsic goodness was wonderfully enhanced if the eater was acquainted with the maker. Puffs,—Mix two table-spoonfuls of flour with a quarter of a pint of cream, two eggs well beaten, some grated nutmeg, four bitter almonds pounded, two tea-spoonfuls of ratafia, and an ounce of butter beaten to a cream. Bake these ingredients in small buttered cups for half an hour, turn them out in a dish, and serve immediately with sweet sauce poured over them. Topffes a la Oreme.—Put a pound of flour on a paste-board, make a, hole in the middle, and put in a quarter of a pint of thick cream and a pinch of salt; mix it lightly, and let it stand half an hour ; then put in it halt a pound of butter, at five times, letting it stand a quarter of an hour twice; then make it into several cakes; feather with yolk of egg, and bake. Brioches,—Make a paste with half a pound of flour and a little hot water, with a spoonful o. yeast; wrap up this paste in a cloth, and put it in a warm place, for twenty minutes in summer and an hour in winter; then put a pound of flour on the board, mix the paste that you have leavened with it, and three-quarters of a pound of butter, five eggs, a little water, and a few grains of salt. Knead all together three times; then wrap up warmly, and let it remain nine or ten hours. Then cut the paste into pieces, the size you wish to make your brioches: mould them into the form you wish, egg them over, and bake small ones half an hour ; those of a larger size an hour and a half. Baba, Made with the brioche paste. Add thereto the size of a