HAMS, BACON, AND SALT MEAT. 191 not adulterated. Bv this mode the flavour of auy kind of herbs may be obtained, or sweet herbs, such as marjoram, thyme, savory, mint, balm, hyssop, or pennyroyal, may be gathered and dried for winter use, either in a Dutch oven in the sun, or in a room where there is plenty of draught. Citron, orange, and lemon-peel may be similarly preserved. Herbs, cabbages, &c., may be kept a long time in a cool cellar, provided they are covered with dry sand. Cabbages should be scalded in hot water previously to drying, and all such plants when dried should be compactly pressed together, and kept in air-tight vessels. Tuberous and other roots are better kept in an airy place, where they may dry a little without being exposed to the winter’s frost.—Tire. Economy in Living.—Poverty is relative, and therefore not ignoble; neediness is a positive degradation. If I have only £100,1 am rich as compared with the majority of iny countrymen. If I have £5,000 a year, I may be poor as compared with the majority of my associates, and very poor compared with my next-door neighbour. 'With either of these incomes, I am relatively poor or rich ; but with either of these incomes I may he positively free from neediness. With the £100 a year I may need no man’s help; I may, at least, have my “ crust of bread and liberty.” But with £5,000 a year I may dread a ring at my bell; I may have my tyrannical masters in servants whose wages I cannot pay; my exile may he the fiat of the first long-suffering man who enters a judgment against me; for the flesh that is nearest my heart, some Shylock may he dusting his scales and whetting his knife. Nor is this an exaggeration. Some of the neediest men I have ever known have a nominal £5,000 per annum. Every man is needy who spends mor8 than he has; no man is needy who spends less. I may so ill-manage my money that, with £5,000 a year, I purchase the worst evils of poverty—terror and shame. I may so manage my money that, with £100 a year, I purchase the best blessings of wealth—safety and respect. Man is a kingly animal. In every shade which does not enslave him, it is not labour which makes him less loyally lord of himself—it i3 fear.— Sir E. B. Lytton, in “Blackwood.” In Russia, the berry of the mountain ash is made use of to flavour jellies, wine, brandy, and other articles, to which it imparts a most agreeable bitter.-—Mark Lane Express. LXXVI.-HAMS, BACON, AND SALT MEAT. Killing swine.—Macbeth. The pigs should always be killed in the afternoon, if possible, and hung up until next morning, when they must be cut up. If the weather will allow of their hanging a few days, so much the better. The bacon and hams must be well rubbed with coarse salt, in which a small quantity of saltpetre must be mixed, and allowed to remain twenty-four hours to drain, after which they must be put into the following pickle:—Four pounds of salt, one pound and a half of white sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre to every two gallons of water, to be boiled, and allowed to get cold, making sufficient to cover the quantity you intend to have. There is no further trouble with them, except to turn them while in the pickle, and they must remain in it, according to size, from a fortnight to three weeks. You will find them rich and fine flavoured. They can be smoked after- wards, if desired. The pickle will last some time, if re-boiled and skimmed. A small quantity of bicarbonate of soda used with the salt mellows the meat. The proportionate quantity of soda, in curing bacon, is about