26 MADE DISHES. Hashed Beef.—Cut the beef in slices, and put it into a stewpau, with an onion, and a little water or stock. Let it simmer, then add a little flour thickening, with ketchup and other sauce. Let it simmer for a quarter of an hour, and serve with bread or toast sippets. Stewed Ox Cheek.—Put the cheek into a stewpan, with two onions, two cloves, three turnips, three carrots cut up, two bay leaves, a couple of heads of celery, and a little allspice, pepper, and salt, with a few sweet herbs. Let it simmer for three hours, and skim it frequently. Take out the cheek, and melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan, add to it a half-pint of the soup, and thicken it with some flour and a table - spoonful of ketchup, tarragon vinegar, and a wineglass of port wine, with a little cayenne, and let it come to near a boil. Serve with the head on a dish, divided, and the soup in a tureen. Blanching is sometimes performed previous to meats being dressed, by putting the article in cold water, when it is gradually brought to boil, and the article taken out and plunged into cold water, where it is left until it is quite cold. It is used to impart white- ness, plumpness, and softness to the article blanched. At the same time the operation lessens the nutritive qualities of the meat by abstracting a portion of the soluble saline matter which it contains, especially the phosphates, and thus deprives it of one of the features which distinguish fresh meat from salt. Sweetbread.—The thymus gland of the calf. When boiled it is light and digestible; but when highly dressed and seasoned it is improper, both for dyspeptics and invalids.— Pereira. Ox Tails Stewed.—Divide them at the joints, and serve the same as the head. Stewed Giblets.—This is a very good dish, dressed in the same manner as the ox head. Lamb a la Poulette.—Blanch any part of a quarter of lamb, put it into a saucepan with a bit of butter, and a spoonful of flour; tvhen well mixed pour over it by degrees two or three glasses of boiling water,\ in order that it may mix well with the butter. When quite smooth put in the lamb, with pepper, salt, a bunch of mixed herbs, and some small onions. Stew the whole gently, and half an hour before serving add some mushrooms; take out the meat, skim the fat off the sauce, and serve. Leg of Lamb, with Green Peas.—Stew a leg of lamb in a simmer of stock until half done, when add some seasoning of pepper, salt, a little ketchup, and a pint of green peas. Put it again on the fire, and simmer till done. This dish can be garnished with fried eggs. Lamb’s Head, Pry, and Sweetbread.—Good, whichever way they are dressed.—{See Sheep's Head and Fry.') Prussian Outlets.—Chop up some veal, with a little fat, add two spoonfuls of shalot, one of salt, half a one of pepper, a little nutmeg. Chop the whole, to give the shape of a cutlet; egg well with bread crumbs. Fry it of a light brown, and serve with any sauce you please. Bacon, with Green Peas or Beans.—Put a pint of well-boiled peas