BEEB« 165 call for a pint, or tankard, of three-threads, meaning a third of ale, beer, and twopenny; and thus the pnblican had the trouble to go to three casks, and turn three cocks, for a pint of liquor. To avoid this inconvenience and waste, a brewer of the name of Harwood conceived the idea of making a liquor which should partake of the same united flavours of ale, beer, and twopenny. He did so, and succeeded, calling it entire, or entire hutt, meaning that it was drawn entirely from one cask or butt; and as it was a very hearty and nourishing liquor, and supposed to be suitable for porters and other working-people, it obtained the name of Porter.—Paris. Lager Beer.—The Bavarian lager beer, slowly fermented, is highly appreciated. Ure writes that considerable interest among men of science in favour of the Bavarian beer process has been excited since the appearance of Liebig’s “ Organic Chemistry.” In the introduction to this admirable work he says, “ The beers of England and France, and for the most part those of Germany, become gradually sour by contact of air. This defect does not belong to the beer of Bavaria, which may be pre- eerved at pleasure in half-full casks, as well as full ones, without altera- tion in the air. This precious quality must be ascribed to a peculiar process employed for fermenting the wort, called in German urvterghcirung,' or fermentation from below, which has solved one of the finest theoretical problems. We will endeavour to condense the mode of manufacturing this renowned lager beer. For the winter beer the worts are brought down to about 50° F., and the beer is transferred to the fermenting tuns at from 54° to 59° F. For the summer lagerlier the worts must be brought down in the cooler at from 43°. to 45°, and put into the fermenting tubs at from 40° to 43°. A few hours afterwards, while the wort is still at the tempe- rature of 63£°, a quantity must be made, called vorstellen (fore-setting) in German, by mixing the proportion of unter-life (yeast) intended for the whole brewing with a barrel or a barrel and a half of the worts in a small tub called the gahr-tiene, stirring them well together, so that they may uniformly run into fermentation ; the loll is in this state to be added to the worts. The loll is known to be ready when it is covered with a white froth from one quarter to half an inch thick, during which it has to be well covered up. The wort in the tun should, in the course of from twelve to twenty-four hours, exhibit a white froth round the rim, and even a slight whiteness in the middle; after another twelve or twenty-four "hours the froth should appear in curls ; and in a third like period these curls should change inf -> a frothy brown mass. In from twenty-four to forty-eight hours the barm should have fallen down in portions through the beer, so as to allow it to be seen in certain points. In this case it may be turned over into the small ripening tuns in the course of five or six days. But when the worts have been set to ferment at from 41° to 43°, they require from eight to nine days. The beer is transferred, after being freed from the top yeast by a skimmer, by means of the stop-cock near the bottom of the large tun. It is either first run into an inter- mediate vessel, in order that the top and bottom portions may be well mixed, or into each of the lager casks, in a number series; like quan- tities of the top and bottom portions are introduced. In the ripening cellars the temperature cannot be too low. The best-keeping beer can •never be brewed unless the temperature of the worts at setting, and, of