28 T CONCLUSION. the colonies—so many Lord Fitzboobies, as D1 Israeli designates them in one of his novels. Were we to prescribe time, or give seasons for either meat or vegetables, we fancy we should think the artiste an automaton, instead of having a head, which he or she should possess, as much as a general, perhaps even more so. We have refrained from introducing the feeding of cattle, sheep, or poultry, or the management of the dairy ; nor have we overloaded our work wnh recipes, either household or medical, but have confined it to cookery, and matter incidental to eating. Indeed, we have gone a little beyond this course of conduct, in detailing the mode of making hams and bacon; but this latter is a subject in which we fancy we are more than an amateur. A work consisting solely of instruc- tions and recipes must always be dull and monotonous, except as a re- ference ; so we have introduced and dispersed in the foregoing pages numerous appropriate quotations and easy extracts, all bearing on the subject matter of the cuisine, which we hope will be found piquant, and interesting, as a kind of literary garnish to the culinary fare we have served up. We have shown the MS. to a critic of discernment, who is hopeful, and possibly the lines of Campbell may be applicable to his judgment:— “ ’Tis the sunset of life gives me mystical lore. And coming events cast their shadows before.” If the work is patronised, it can be improved in many ways, as well as enlarged, keeping down the price, as we live in cheap times. We desire that it may be remunerative, being of Ensign 0‘Doherty’s opinion, as given by Professor Wilson, in Blackwood:—that every unpaid writer is, ex vi termini, an ass. Should it not be in request, it can be consigned to the Capulets’ tomb, or, more appropriately speaking, to the trunk-maker’s. We now take leave of the indulgent reader, and of any one who may have used these pages as a reference (especially if he, she, or they have par- taken of any of the viands hereinbefore propounded), in the language of a great writer, whom we have previously quoted, by wishing “ To all and each a fair good night, With rosy dreams and slumbers light.” Cookery Book.—M. Alexandre Dumas, pere, has been offered by a Paris publisher the moderate sum of 60,000f. down, and 10,000f. a-year, if he will write a cookery book. The author of “Les Trois Mousquetaires," however, hesitates, fearing that his work would not be above the av rage intellect of the kitchen, and so would be useless. In his apology for refusing to emulate Mrs. Glasse (Dr. Hill), M. Dumas quotes the following- dictum of a cuisinier at Marseilles:—“ I consider a cook who invents a dish a much greater man than an astronomer who discovers a star; for, as far as stars are concerned, there are as many as we shall ever consume, but a new dish is a new pleasure for every man who knows how to dine. Dr. Kitchener wrote a similar observation years ago. M. Dumas assur. s us that he is a very good cook.—bate Letter from Paris. Dr. Kitchener informs us that the best books on cookery have been written by physicians—Sir Kenelm Digby, Sir Theodore Mayene, Professor Beasloy, Dr. Hill, Dr. Le Cointe, Dr Hunter, See. FINIS.