188 COFFEE. live. Medical writers tell us chicory is reputed to be alterative, atteuuant, diuretic, febrifuge, hepatic, resolvent, and tonic. When taken to excess, it has a tendency to excite diarrhoea, according to Pereira. Pour on the coffee boiling water, and you have the real thing. The chicory gives the coffee a fulness, but, if too much is used, the flavour and aroma of the coffee is overpowered and lost. The French cafe au lait is a small quantity of coffee, and a large proportion of milk made hot, and sweetened to taste. Coffee, like tea, has certainly an anti-soporiflc effect on many individuals. It imparts an activity to the mind which is incompatible with sleep; but this will rarely occur if the beverage is taken for several hours before our accustomed period of repose. It seems to be generally admitted that it possesses the power of counteracting the effects of narcotics; and hence it is used by the Turks with much advantage in abating the influence of the inordinate quantities of opium they are accustomed to swallow. When our object is to administer it as a promoter of digestion, it should be carefully made by infusion; decoction dissipates its aroma.—Part's on Diet. M. Payen proves that coffee, slightly roasted, contains the maximum of aroma, weight, and nutrition. lie declares coffee to be nutritious, as it contains a large quantity of azote, three times as much nutriment as tea, and more than twice the nourishment of soup. Chicory contains only half the nutriment of coffee. A late number of “ L’Annee Scientifique,” by Louis Figuier, contains an able article, showing that the use of coffee tends to prolong life. The property which coffee possesses of rendering the produce of the secretions more aqueous, leads Dr. Petit to recommend it as an agent for combat- ting the gout, gravel, and calculous affections. M. Trosseau, in his treatise on ‘‘Materia Medica and Therapeutics,” states, the above-named complaints are all unknown where the consumption of coffee takes place. The Eastern nations are great coffee drinkers, and the small berry of Mocha, in Arabia, is considered the finest kind of the coffea Arabica. The Turks are both great smokers and drinkers of coffee; it is tolerated by the Koran precepts of temperance, and universally used by all Islamites. The roasting of the berry to a proper degree requires great nicety ; the virtues and agreeableness of the drink depend upon it, and both are often injured by the general method. Bernier says, when he was at Cairo, where coffee is ^-o much used, he was assured by the best judges, that there were only two people in that great city who understood how to prepare it in perfection. If it be under-done, its virtues will not be imparted, and, in use, it will load and oppress the stomach ; if it be over-done, it will yield a flat, burnt, and bitter taste, its virtues will be destroyed, and, in use, it will heat the body and act as an astringent.— Moseley. Mahometanism. At present the use of coffee is generally tolerated, if not granted, as is that of tobacco, though the more religious make a scruple of taking the latter, noh only because, it inebriates, but also out of respect to a traditional saying of the Prophet (which, if it could be made to be his, he would be a prophet indeed), that in the latter days there should be men, who would bear the name of Moslems, but should not be really such, and that they should smoke a certain weed, which should be called tobacco. However, the Eastern nations are so addicted to both, that they say a drink ■of coffee and a pipe of tobacco are a complete entertainment; and the Persians have a