'256 HEBREW REFECTION. it to the consistency of hasty pudding ; boil it till it becomes thick, let it cool, and. beat it up with ten eggs; when smooth, take a spoonful at a time, and drop it into a frying-pan in which there is a good quantity of boiling clarified butter; fry of a light brown, and serve with clarified sugar flavoured with lemon essence. Chejados.—Clarify a pound of sugar in half a pint of water, peel and grate a moderately-sized cocoa-nut, add it to the syrup, and let it simmer till perfectly soft, putting rose-water occasionally to prevent its becom- ing too dry ; stir it to prevent burning. Let it cool, and mix it with the beaten yolks of six eggs. Make a thin nouilles pastry, cut it into rounds the size of a tea-cup, pinch up the edges deep enough to form a shape, fill them with the sweetmeat, and bake of a light brown. A rich puff paste may be substituted for the nouilles pastry if preferred. Macrotes.—Take a pound of French roll dough, six ounces of fresh butter, two eggs, as much flour as will be requisite to knead together; •roll it in the form of a long French roll, and cut it in thin long slices, set them at a short distance from the fire to rise, and then fry them in the best Florence oil. When nearly cold, dip them in clarified sugar, flavoured with essence of lemon. Tart de Moy.—Soak three-quarters of a pound of savoury biscuits in a quart of milk; add six ounces of fresh butter, four eggs, one ounce of candied orange-peel, the same quantity of lemon-peel, and one ounce of •citron; mix all well together. Sweeten with white sugar, and bake in a quick oven ; when nearly done, spread over the top the whites of the eggs well whisked, and return it to the oven. Green Stick.—Make into a stiff paste one pint of biscuit-powder, a little brown sugar, grated lemon-peel, six eggs, and three-quarters of a pound of warmed fresh butter; then prepare four apples chopped finely, a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds blanched and chopped, half a pound of stoned raisins, a little nutmeg grated, half a pound of coarse brown sugar, and a glass of white wine, or a little brandy. Mix the above ingredients together, and put them on a slow fire, to simmer for half an hour, and place in a dish to cool. Make the paste into the form of small dumplings, fill them with the fruit, and bake them. When put in the oven, pour over a syrup of brown sugar-and-water, flavoured with lemon- juice. Hainan’s Fritters.—Take two spoonfuls of the best Florence oil, scald it, and, when hot, mix with it one pound of flour ; add four beaten eggs, and make it into a paste; roll it out thin, and cut it into pieces about four inches square; let them dry, and fry them in oil. The moment the pieces are put into the frying-pan they must be drawn up with silver skewers into different forms, according to fancy. A few minutes is suffi- cient to fry them ; they should be crisp when done. Wallers.—Mix a cup and a half of thick yeast with a little warm