14 BOILING. lowest possible point, the articles to be boiled should not be put into the water until it is in a state of full ebullition, which should be maintained for five or six minutes after- wards, by which time the surface will have become, to a certain degree, hardened, and will then act as a shield to the inner parts. To induce tenderness, the subsequent portion of the operation should be carried on lit a mere “simmer,” the slighter the better. The practice of dressing meat by putting it into cold water, which is gradually raised to the boiling point, cannot be too much censured. A quarter of an hour per pound for dressing young meat, poultry, aud small pieces, and twenty minutes per pound for old, tough, and large ones, are the usual times allowed by cooks for this purpose.—Cooley’s “ Practical Receipts.” We intend to give only a few recipes in boiling, for the mode is so well described by Cooley, that were we to write a dozen pages we could not improve the detail of cooking by this mode. Joints must invariably continuously simmer; if any meat is what is called galloped, it is rendered tough, the .iuices are absorbed, and it is indigestible. Cooks should be made to comprehend the difference between a boiling simmer and a boil- ing gallop. Boiled Leg of Mutton.—This favourite dish is simply simmered until done, the scum is taken off occasionally, and the dish must be done, and not over-done; for, according to Johnston’s “ Chemistry of Common Life,” meat well cooked should be full of its own natural gravy. It is quite impossible to give the exact time to boil a joint ^ it must, of course, depend upon its weight, and the boil. There are many chances against this very simple joint being served up in perfection ; and, according to Charles Lamb, it must be accompanied with mashed turnips, which must be neither stringy nor bitter. If the latter, a little sugar put in the water will absorb that unpleasant taste; but we are vulgar enough to prefer a Swede to the white stone. Assuming that the turnips are good flavoured, and properly mashed, there are said to be seven chances against this simple dish being served in perfection, as between the cook and the ■eater:— 1st. The mutton must be good. 2nd. Must have been kept a good time. 3rd. Must be boiled by a good fire. 4th. By a good cook. 5th. Who must be in good temper. 6th. The mashed turnips must be good; and 7th. The eater must have a good appetite. Bound of Beef.—This is a noble dish at all times, supposing it is well and properly salted. Skewer it tightly, and as round and evenly as possible. Put more fat in the centre, if the meat is too lean. The pot must be roomy. Ileat gradually, according to Cooley, and allow it to simmer until done. Take off the scum. When dished, see that the silver skewers hold the meat well together, and ladle a small quantity of the liquor over the meat. Garnish with sliced carrots. If to be eaten cold, let it remain in the water until it cools, and the meat will be more mellow. Flesh versus Vegetables.—At a meeting of the Dublin Itoyal Society, Mr. Houghton read a paper on “ The Advantages of Vegetarianism.” He contended that man is not a carnivorous animal, and that it is contrary to his nature to eat flesh, and brought forward many authorities in favour of his system, which was completely demolished by Colonel Walsh, Dr. Shaw, Dr. Jacob, and Mr. Ross, who has been fifteen years in the service of the Hudson’s Bay Company, during which long period he had never tasted vegetables. In low latitudes, the latter asserted animal food was abso- lutely necessary, and he had himself repeatedly drank melted grease with great gusto.— Newspaper Report of Proceedings of Dublin Itoyal Society,