HEBREW REFECTION. 257 milk, find set it, -with two pounds -of flour, before the fire to rise ; then mix with them one pound of fresh butter, ten eggs, a grated nutmeg, a quarter of a pint of orange-flower water, a little powdered cinnamon, and three pints of warm milk. When the batter is perfectly smooth, butter the irons, fill them with it, close them down tightly, and put them between the bars of a bright clear fire; when sufficiently done, they will slip easily out of the irons. Wafler irons can be obtained from any ironmonger of tbe Hebrew persuasion, or, indeed, of others. Lamplich.—Take a pound of currants, the same quantity of raisins and sugar, a little citron, ground cloves and cinnamon, with eight apples, finely chopped. Mix all together. Then have ready a rich paste; cut into small triangles ; fill them with the fruit, like puffs, and lay them in a deep dish; let the pieces be placed closely, and, when the dish is full, pour over one ounce of fresh butter, melted in a tea-cupful of clarified sugar, flavoured with essence of lemon, and bake in an oven not too brisk. Staffin.—This is composed of the fruit, &c., prepared as above; but the dish is lined with the paste, and the fruit is laid with alternate layers of paste till the dish is filled. The paste must form the top layer; clarified sugar is poured over before it is put in the oven. Passover Pudding.—Mix equal quantities of biscuit-powder and shred suet, half the quantity of currants and raisins, a little spice and sugar, with an ounce of candied peels, and five well-beaten eggs; make these into a stiff batter, and boil well, and serve with a sweet sauce. This pudding is excellent baked in a pudding-tin; it must be turned out when served. Passover Fritters.—Mix into a smooth batter a tea-cupful of biscuit- powder, with beaten eggs, and sweeten with white sifted sugar; add grated lemon-peel, and a spoonful of orange-flower water, and fry of a light brown. The flavour may be varied by substituting a few beaten almonds, with one or two bitter, instead of the orange-flower water. Passover Fritters {superior).—Mix into a smooth batter a tea-cup of passover biscuit-powder, with beaten eggs, and sweeten with white-sifted sugar: add grated lemon-peel, and a spoonful of orange-flower water, and fry of a light brown. The flavour may be varied by substituting a few beaten almonds, with one or two bitter, instead of the orange-flower water. Siesta Oake.—Take one pound of butter, warm it over the fire with a little milk, pour it into a pan with a pound of flour, six eggs, a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, finely powdered, and two table-spoonfuls of yeast; beat tffise ingredients well together into a light paste, and set it before the fire to rise. Butter the inside of a pan, and fill it with alternate layers of the paste, and of pounded almonds, sugar, citron, and R