120 JONES’S PATENT FLOUR. the different ingredients. The reason it is not more generally, nay, we say universally, used we cannot divine, when the best authority—the Lancet—has written that it is “the greatest invention of the age;” and we apprehend that the editor of that publication is no quack. The use of this flour would save England two millions of quarters of corn per annum, which are now lost in carbonic acid gas and defective manipula- tion. It can only be made properly from the finest kiln-dried flour, and is invaluable for cakes, puddings, pastry, biscuits, and fancy bread. It is economical, as it requires more water to make into dough, and-there can be no adulteration. Cooley is justly indignant that it is not more generally used ; and he writes, that Englishmen appear to prefer alumed bread, with headache, dyspepsia, and indigestion, to a clear head and vigorous digestion. Jones’s patent flour, in the country, on board ship or yacht, or at the diggings, is most necessary and valuable. The London Times has lately published an able article on the advantages of baking bread on board of our men-of-war, and the boon of such a diet to our seamen. No doubt of it; and if soft bread was served out, even twice a week, to our soldiers and sailors in war time, they would be the better for it. An Englishman cannot fight unless he is well fed. The French men- of-war have large ovens, and fresh bread is baked for the crew daily. Why should our men be subject to the eternal boil every day of their lives? We would have “ My lords ” put on this boiling diet for a time, to see how they would like it. The Americans whipt the world for flour, and the South Australians whipt the Americans, as their flour is acknowledged to be infinitely superior. Why do not the Board of Admiralty give a fillip to the colonies by calling for tenders for victualling their fleets ? Nowhere is flour and beef so cheap, and a victualling-yard could easily be called into existence. Is circumlocution or red-tape the only objection? If economy is to be considered, this would at once be effected. Adelaide exported in the first six months of 1863 no less than 30,000 tons of the finest flour, and, as a consequence, has obtained the enviable position of being the granary of the Southern Hemisphere. Launceston, in Tas- mania, comes next in order, and yet “ Mr. Mother Country,” to use a term of the late Charles Buller’s, will not assist his offspring at a great pecuniary saving to himself. The finest flour has been selling at Adelaide and Launceston during the past year at £10 per 2,000 pounds. Bor- wick’s and every other baking powder may hide their diminished heads in comparison with Jones’s patent flour. Borwick advertises that the Queen has ordered the use of his powder in the Royal kitchen; but Her Majesty will do so no more after a trial with the patent flour, as it will effectually supersede the baking mixture, both in the palace of the Sovereign and the cottage of the poor. The reader may naturally think that we are em- ployed in the Holloway style—to puff. By no means; we only came across the recipe by mere chance, and have not the pleasure of knowing Mr. Jones. Let any one peruse with attention what a talented lady and excellent house-manager writes on this subject; but, before doing so, let us give the proportions:—