100 FORCEMEAT AND STUFFING. get rid of its rankness, and broiled. The hake is dressed in cutlets, and fried with egg and bread crumbs, and the ruffe is eatable if cooked in a similar way. Dr. Mayo tells us fish of different kinds vary in digestibility. The most digestible is whiting, boiled; haddock next; cod, soles, and turbot are richer and heavier; eels, when stewed, notwith- standing their richness, are digestible. Ling is, perhaps, the most digestible river fish; salmon is not very digestible, unless in a fresher state than that in which much of it reaches the London market. Recipe to Prepare Fat to Fry Fish.—Carefully pick ten pounds of beef suet, when ready put it into an iron pan to melt; as soon as melted add five pounds of fresh butter and three pounds of hog’s lard. The moment the whole is in a boiling state, throw in two turnips, four carrots, an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of parsley, half a dozen shalots, a small bit of thyme, two bay-leaves, and a little sweet basil. Let the herbs and roots fry until they are dried up. Strain the melted fat through a sieve, and, when nearly cold, stir in some baysalt and some whole pepper, and put in jars for use. The oftener this fat is used the better it becomes. To fry fish nicely, the frying-pan should always be full, and the fat strained into the jar the moment the process of frying is done. Hints.—Cooks generally, after frying fish, throw away the fat—an extravagance to be reprehended. A knife applied to fish is likely to spoil the delicacy of its flavour; so that it should he helped with a silver slice or trowel, and be eaten with a silver fork and bread, or a fish-knife. Fried fish should never bo sent to table covered, because the steam that rises is condensed by the cover, and falls back on the fish, which thereby becomes soddened, and loses its crispness and flavour. Boiled fish is improved by a little vinegar being put into the water, an onion, and a few sweet herbs. XXIX.—FORCEMEAT AND STUFFING. Solitary dinners, I think, ought to oe avoided as much as possible, because solitude tends to produce thought, and thought tends to the suspension of the digestive organs. —Walker. The ability of the cook is always determined by his or her forcemeats and stuffing. We can describe the latter, and can only hint at the in- gredients of the former, for they may be said to comprise Legion. Every variety of meat: hams, tongues, crumbs of bread, flour, dripping, and herbs, spices, curry-powder, anchovies, prawns and crabs, eggs and sauces—in truth, forcemeat may be made from any and every thing. The great desideratum is to allow the taste of no one article to overpower the others, or otherwise it is decidedly imperfect in its composition. Stuffing and forcemeat has been always considered as the chef d’oeuvre of the cuisine, fora bad cook cannot manipulate good forcemeat: such a circumstance would be a culinary paradox. Flain Forcemeat.—Take an equal quantity of meat and beef suet; mince and chop small; add pepper, salt, cloves, pounded lemon-peel, and nutmeg, grated, parsley and sweet herbs, a little shalot and onion, a few