■YEAST, ■204 business of the day ; and let the guests consider themselves as travellers Avho are to arrive together at the same place of destination. 8. Let the coffee be hot, and the liquors chosen by the master. 9. Let the saloon be large enough to admit of a game of cards for those who cannot do without it, and so that there may notwithstanding remain space enough for post-meridian colloquy. 10. Let the party be detained by the charms of society, and animated by the hope that the evening will not pass without some ulterior en- joyment. 11. Let the tea be not too strong; let the toast be scientifically buttered, and the punch carefully prepared. 12. Let not the retreat commence before eleven, but let everybody be in bed before twelve. If any one has been present at a party uniting these twelve requisites, he may boast of having been present at his own apotheosis. The heat of a dining-room should not be more than 62° of Fahrenheit. Luxury.—By repute, the celebrated Mr. Beckford, of Fonthill, was the most luxu- rious individual known in modern days. He it was that carried out the idea invented by Louis XIV., of the tables volantes. Mr. Beclcford seldom entertained company, yet his table was invariably most gorgeously arranged. He used often, it is said, give orders for a superb dinner for twelve, and sit down alone to it, attended by twelve servants, each in lull dress, eat of one dish, and send all away. Mr. Beclcford had no bells; the servants waited in the ante-rooms. This would not do for Byron, who tells us— “Turkey contains no bells, yet men dine." Mr. Beclcford’s solemn state is equal to that which occurred at Arundel Castle, as detailed by an American writer, who was rather surprised, at a party of thirty, to see as many servants in the Howard livery waiting at table. M. Ude left the service of an English nobleman on one occasion, solely because he could not have a servant to carry up every dish; so writes the “ Quarterly.” The Romans considered flowers essential and necessary to their festal entertainments, and at their desserts : and modern fashion has followed suit with effect, for nothing tends to set off a table so much as choice and fragrant floral ornaments. LXXXIII -YEAST. Every one who has reached the middle of life must have had occasion to observe how much bis comfort and his powers of exertion depend on the state of his stomach, and will have lost some of his original indifference to rules of diet. The hour of dinner should be neither too late nor too early; if too late, the system will have been exhausted for want of it, will be weakened, and the digestion enfeebled; if too early, the stomach will crave another substantial meal, which, taken late in the evening, will not be digested before the hours of sleep. A person who breakfasts a,t nine should not dine later than six.—Mayo. The preparation of yeast as a ferment is of some moment in the country, where no brewery is near. We therefore insert a recipe for Good Potato Yeast.—Take about twelve full-sized potatoes, and, when boiled, mash them. Then boil a handful of hops and three table- spoonfuls of sugar in six pints of water. When nearly cold, mix the whole with about half a pint of stale yeast. Set it near the fire to work; it is ready for use when done working, and will keep a fortnight. The above recipe, with common attention, makes most excellent bread, only it requires some pure yeast to commence with.