X INTRODUCTORY PREPACK. the property of albumen — the nutritive qualities of blanc-mange; adding that the lamented Sir John Franklin and his companions, on the shores of the Polar Sea, were compelled to make a repast of their old shoe3. I have read of a French dancing master, who wa3 cast away on a desolate island, and who lived without water for six months by merely sucking his pumps. In a marginal note the first story is out-Heroded, as we are further informed, on the authority of the late Dr. Marcet, that the stomach can digest harder substances than mere skin, for the fact is stated of a sailor swallowing several clasp-knives, which were not quite digested ten years afterwards, when he died. There may be some feasi- bility in these statements, as the poet tells us “that truth is stranger than fiction.” Now, I do not profess to give the modus operandi of preparing for food saw-dust, old shoes, clasp-knives, or even a Utopian recipe which appears in some works—roasting a pound of butter. While on this subject, I may express a desire that none of my readers may be plae(.d in the unfortunate situation of Sir John Franklin, to be obliged to have recourse to leather, and I would counsel no one to try the digesti- bility of clasp-knives, as the stomach of the mammalian species is not comparable with that of the ostrich. The original matter to be found in any work of this kind must, ex necessitate, be trifling. I only lay claim to, and put forth “ thi3 little volume” (to borrow a term from Lever, elsewhere quoted) as an indus- trious, and, I trust it will be found, a judicious, compialtion. I desire to return my thanks for the assistance I have had from amateurs and professionals. I am also bound to acknowledge, with every consideration, the grateful aid I have received from different authors who have preceded me. It must be seen that my object is a laudable one—to promote sociality and good-will, by enjoining hospitality ; and, as an aid to the latter virtue, to show how the good things of this life may be rendered fit for the table. • “ Well-ordered home, man’s best delight to make; And by submissive wisdom, modest skill. With every gentle care—eluding art— To raise the virtues, animate the bliss, And sweeten all the toils of human life.” While I do this, I am bound to impress on every one the propriety of moderation in enjoyment, or else we need the aid of the physician, whom Voltaire describes as “an unfortunate gentleman, who is every day requested to perform a miracle—viz., reconcile health with intemperance.” I have bestowed some trouble and research on this work, and I shall reap an ample reward if it obtains as much favour in the mother country