,12 ROASTING. Ox Heart.—This is an excellent dish if well basted and attended to. Stuff it in the centre with veal stuffing, and have a few stuffing balls in the dripping-pan. Put paper on the heart at first, and afterwards take away the paper, and flour it so as to put a froth on. Serve hot, with hot water plates and currant jelly. It is very excellent cut in slices and hashed, but be sure to mind the fluid is not too watery. Half a dozen sheeps’ hearts are very nice indeed dressed in this way. The art of roasting victuals to the precise degree is one of the most difficult in this world, and you may find half a thousand good cooks sooner than one perfect roaster.— Almanacli dcs Gourmands. Koast Lamb.—The fore-quarter is considered the prime part of lamb. It must be roasted before a clear fire, and basted from the time it is warmed until it is thoroughly done. It should never be placed so near the fire as to scorch the fat; serve with a little gravy made in the pan, .and have mint sauce in a tureen, with a lemon cut ready for use. A salad is a favourite addition. The liind-quarter, or any other part, may be dressed in the same way. Lamb is good dressed in any mode, and an excellent dish cold in summer. It may be baked, or stewed, or hashed, or made into a pie. Quarter of Lamb Roasted, with Bread Crumbs.—Lard the lamb on the thin side with small pieces of bacon, and sprinkle the other part with bread crumbs; when almost done take it from the fire, and sprinkle it a second time with crumbs of bread, seasoned with salt and parsley. Put the joint down to brown, and when done serve with sharp sauce. Roast Kid.—This is very good eating. It is in great request on the -Continent of Europe. Put a quarter down to roast, and let it be well browned; serve with gravy, slices of bacon, and some veal stuffing balls. It is more tender than lamb. A Little Dinner at Timmins's.—Of csorae it does not become the present author, who has partaken of the best entertainment wLS-Ji his friends could supply, to make fun of their (somewhat ostentatious, as it must be confessed) hospitality. If they gave a dinner beyond their means, it was no business of mine. I hate a man who goes and eats a friend’s meat, and then blabs the secret of the mahogany. Such a man deserves never to be asked to dinner again; and though at the close of a London season that seems no great loss, and you sicken of a whitebait as you would of a whale, yet we must always remember that there’s another season coming, and hold ourtongues for the present. As for describing, then, the mere victuals on Timmins’s table, that would be absurd. Everybody (I mean the genteel world, of course, of which I make no doubt the reader is a polite ornament)—everybody has everything in London. You see the same coats, the same dinners, the same cutlets, fish, and cucumbers, the same lumps of Wenham Lake ice, &c. The waiters, with white neckcloths, are as like each other everywhere as the peas which they hand round with the ducks of the second course. Can’t we invent anything new ?—Thackeray. Roast Veal Veal requires great care and attention in the roast. It must be continually basted. The fillet will require stuffing and force- meat, and the time it will take depends on the fire and the size of the joint. A loin is the preferable part for a roast. The kidney must be papered, and fat served up hot on toast for the veal gourmet. _ The .shoulder is excellent roasted, as well as the breast. The sweetbread is par- boiled before being roasted. Roast veal of every kind must have some