157 BISCUITS. milk into a stiff paste; beat it well, and knead it smooth, roll the paste thin, and bake. Sweet Biscuits.—Beat eight eggs to a froth ; add a pound of white sugar, and the peel of a grated lemon ; whisk the whole well together then add a pound of flour and a tea-spoonful of rose-water. Divide it into biscuits, sugar them over, and bake in tins. Brighton Biscuits.—Mix together one pound of flour, one drachm of carbonate of ammonia in fine powder, four ounces of white sugar, one ounce of arrowroot, four ounces of butter, and one egg; add new milk, so as to form a stiff paste; then beat the mass with a rolling-pin ; roll it out, and bake. Biscuits a la Francaise.—Beat up the yolks of four eggs, with one pound of sugar; whip the whites separately, and, when they are well frothed, mix them with the yolks and sugar, and stir in half a pound of flour, lightly; have ready some tin moulds, buttered ; put in the biscuit paste, filling the moulds only half; throw some sugar over them, and bake. Biscuit Drops.—Beat up the whites and yolks of six eggs separately, with § spoonful of rose-water; to which add six ounces of powdered loaf sugar. Beat the whole well, and add one ounce of bruised carraway seeds, and six ounces of flour. Drop them on wafer-paper, and bake in a moderate oven. Devilled Biscuits.—Soak the common ship’s biscuit, or the captain’s biscuit, for a quarter of an hour in lukewarm water. Toast them, and butter well; add cayenne and anchovy, or herring paste, and hold before the fire iu a cheese-toaster for a few minutes. Oatmeal Biscuits.—One pound of the finest oatmeal, half a pound of butter, half a pound of loaf sugar, and two eggs. Pound the sugar, and mix all the ingredients into a stiff paste, with cold water. The eggs are not to be beaten for these biscuits. Make the paste into small balls; flatten them, and bake on tins. Savoy Biscuits.—Six eggs, with three ounces of white sugar, lemon-peel, and four Ounces of flour. Beat the eggs first, then mix the other articles, and drop on paper. When they have been a short time in the oven, sprinkle a little sugar over them. Wexford Biscuits.—Rub ten ounces of butter into four ounces of flour, and three ounces of white sugar, the yolks of two eggs, and a table-spoonful of brandy; roll the paste out thin, and cut, with a cutter, into round shapes. . Egg over the tops of each with the Avhite of the cggs, and sift on white sugar. Bake in a quick oven. Lemon Biscuits.—‘-These are simply and easily made. To one pound of flour add six ounces of good sugar; have three-quarters of a pound of lard or butter melted, and two eggs well beaten ; mix the lard