123 CHUTNEY.—TOAST. solves. According to tlie analysis of Berzelius, he found in milk—water, 92875; cream and curd, 28; sugar of milk, 35; chloride of potassium, 170; phosphate of potassa, 6; lactic acid, lactate of iron, and acetate of potassa, 6; earthy phosphates, 0 30; total, 1,000. XL—CHUTNEY. Indian Chutney.— The qualms or ruptures of your blood Rise in proportion to your food; And if you would improve your thought. You must be fed as weU as taught. Your stomach makes your fabric roll, Just as the bias rules the bowl.— Prior. Take two pounds of green tamarinds, and stone them; two pounds of unripe mangoes, two pounds of salt, two pounds of ginger roots, one pound of onions, one pound of garlic, and one pound and a half of raisins, stoned; well pound them, and add to six parts of good vinegar. Jar them for use. English Chutney.—A very near imitation of the Indian may be made from two pounds of apples, peeled, cored, and pounded; a quarter of a pound of green mint chopped fine, the juice of two lemons, half a pound of bird’s-eye chillies, half a pound of salt, a quarter of a pound of onions, and the same of garlic, with a small quantity of vinegar. If you cannot procure the green chillies, use cayenne. Parliamentary Dinner and Debates.—He must say that, as far as he could recol- lect, the debates in that House were conducted with more order and with much fuller attendance between seven and half-past nine o’clock, when simple mutton chops were served for their dinner, than at present, when something like a French dinner was attempted.—Mr. Osborne, in the House of Commons, on the Dining-room Delate. XLI-TOAST. Buttered Toast.— Rat1 er than fail, they win decry That which they love most tenderly ; Quarrel with minc’d pies, and disparage Their best and dearest friend, plum porridge: Fat pig and goose itself oppose. And blaspheme custard thro’ the nose.—Hudibras. How is it that buttered toast is so much better done at public inns than at private houses? The bread should not be cut thicker than about three-quarters of an inch, and toasted with attention, not omitting the browning of the crust. When toasted it must not be left, but buttered on both sides at once, and kept warm. Some persons have the crust cut off, while other admirers of buttered toast like the crust to remain on. Dry Toast.—Dry toast must be made from bread a day old. Have