DRINKS, 28U cherries; extract the jnice from them separately, and add to it a small proportion of- ■white sugar, so as to make it sweet and rich, but not a thick syrup; strain it off as clear as possible. When you have the juices of the fohr fruits ready, mix them together, observing to put in a smaller proportion of currant and raspberry juice than of the cherry and strawberry. To a pint of juice add a gill of brandy, and then bottle it. The addition of some cherry and apricot kernels will be found an improvement.—French Recipe. Egg Wine.—Beat up an egg, and mix it with a table-spoonful of water. Put a wine-glass of wine, half a glass of water, and sugar and nutmeg to taste, into a small saucepan, and place over a slow fire, and when it boils add it gradually to the egg, stirring well; then return the whole to the saucepan, and place over the fire again, and stir for a minute y. remove, and serve with toast. If it boils a second time, it will curdle. Falstaff. Go, brew me a pottle of sack finely. BardoLph. With eggs, sir ?—Merry Wives of Windsor. Hot Purl.—Put a quart of mild ale into a saucepan, add a table- spoonful of grated nutmeg, and place it over a slow fire until it nearly, boils. Mix a little cold ale, with sugar to taste, and, gradually, two eggs well beaten ; then add the hot ale, stirring one way to prevent curdling, and a quarter of a pint of whisky. Warm the whole again, and pour it from one vessel into another until it becomes smooth. Dibdin has immortalised rum-flip as the favourite beverage of sailors, although they seldom use it. It is made by adding a quartern of rum to the beer. The essential in- all “flips” is to produce smoothness in the drink by repeated mixtures, and beating the eggs weU up; the sweetening and spice according to taste. Hydromel.—Boil eight pints of water and one of good honey till> reduced half, then add a glass of brandy. This hydromel will keep ten or twelve years. ShuV-in-the-Moutk.—This drink is simply cold brandy-and-water, with the addition of a little sugar. During the passage of the Stamp Act, in the Tasmanian House of Assembly, the hon. member for Selby remarked that a publican waited on his solicitor to ask what was the ■ amount of the stamp duty on a verbal agreement. The hon. member for Morven replied, that the answer was a “ shuv’-in-the-mouth.”—Hobart Town Advertiser. Jingle.—Roast a few apples, grate some nutmeg on them, and sugar to taste, and place them in a jug, with some slices of toasted bread, heat some ale, and fill the jug. Dr. Kitchener writes, Before our readers make any remarks on this composition, we heg of them to taste it; if the materials are good, and their palate vibrates in unison with our own, they will find it one of the pleasantest beverages they ever put to their lips; and Lord Ruthven says, “ This is right gossips' cup, that far exceeds all the ale that ever Mother Bunch made in her lifetime.” See his lordship’s “Experiments on. Cookery,” 1654. TewaMidclle,—A pint of small beer, a table-spoon of brandy, aDd a tea-spoonful of brown sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and a roll of thin lemon-peel. Blow my Skull.—This was a colonial beverage in use in the earlier days of Tasmania, and was named and drank by an eccentric governor, who had a stronger head than most of his subordinates. A wattle hub