SMOKING. 233 cod, and well worth, the attention of pisciculturists.” Mr. Krefft writes up to the present time, “I have only captured four distinct species of fish in the Hawkesbury River —namely, Pitt’s perch (Therapon Pittii), the sprat (Megalops sctipinnis, Richardson), the Australian eleotris, or gudgeon of the settlers (Eleotris Australis, Kr. MSS.), and the so-called “ smelt ” (Galaxias scrita, Richardson). The two last species are common also in the fresh water of the neighbourhood; all are of excellent flavour, but the gudgeon and smelt of small size, and seldom caught for the table; the sprat is larger, and grows to about fifteen inches in length. This fish rises to a fly, it furnishes good sport, and a magnificent dish if fried crisp. It is necessary to fry the sprat well, owing to the numerous fine bones, which otherwise would not allow one to enjoy it.—The Melbourne Yeoman. • Fish at Brisbane.—We had the pleasure of inspecting a magnificent barramundi. The fish in question was a portly-shaped specimen, of some ten pounds weight, and a clear evidence of our piscicultural resources. The river at this season (summer) of the year swarms with barramundi and mullet, very different from the repulsive catfish hawked about our doors. Surely, something must be wrong when, in a climate like this, a town numbering a large and prosperous population cannot boast a fish-shop.—Queens- land Newspaper. We regret that several attempts have been made unsuccessfully to introduce, from the Mauritius into Australia, the valuable fish called the guaramier. Its advent into the Colonies would be very advantageous, for this fish is little inferior to the salmon in fineness of flavour, and it reaches nearly seventy pounds in weight. Lono Life.—I have, in my life, met with two of above one hundred and twelve, whereof the woman had passed her life in service, and the man in common labour, till he grew old, and fell upon the parish. But I met with one who had gone a much greater length, which made me more curious in my inquiries. It was an old man, who begged usually at a lonely inn upon the road in Staffordshire, who told me he was a soldier, a hundred and twenty-four years old; that he had been a soldier in the Gales voyage, under the Earl of Essex, of which he gave me a sensible account; that, after his return, he fell to labour in his own parish, which was about a mile from the place where I met him ; that he continued to work till a hundred and twelve, when he broke one^of his ribs by a fall from a cart, and, being thereby disabled, he fell to beg. This agreeing with what the master of the house told me was reported and be- lieved by all his neighbours, I asked him what was his usual food. He said, milk, tread, and cheese, and flesh when it was given him. I asked him what he used to drink. He said, ‘‘Oh, sir, we have the best water in our parish that is in all the neighbourhood." Whether he ever drank anything else ? He said, yes, if anybody gave it him; but not otherwise. And the host told me he had got many a pound in his house, but never spent a penny. I asked him if he had neighbours as old as he; and he told me—but one, who had been his fellow-soldier at Cales, and was three years older; but he had been most of his time in good service, and had something to live on now he was old.—Sir W. Temple’s “Essays on Health and Long Life." Cl.—SMOKING. Subhme tobacco ! which, from East to West, Cheers the tars’ labour or the Turkman’s rest. Which on the Moslem’s ottoman divides His hours, and rivals opium and his brides ; Magnificent in Stamboul, but less grand. Though not less loved, in Wapping or the Strand; Divine in hookahs, glorious in a pipe, • When tipped with amber, mellow, rich, and ripe; Like other charmers, wooing the caress, » More dazzling when appearing in full dress; Yet thy true lovers more admire by far Thy naked beauties—give me a cigar!—Byron. Smoking in moderation is by no means unwholesome; indeed, it has teen pronounced, a sedative. Like other indulgences in the world, there is every difference between its moderate use and its great abuse. A case