42 CONDIMENTS. _ Tapioca is a starch, produced from the roots of the cassava plant. It is uspd in a similar manner to the arrowroot. Salsop is the root of a plant grown in the East, where it is used as an article of food 5 it is also taken as a drink by invalids. Sago is the pith of the palm-tree, and is prepared in a similar way to tapioca. Soy we have elsewhere observed on, so that we do not require to elaborate on its qualities. Chutney is a condiment that we have also given the recipe for making, in another place. Curry-powder: an Indian condiment of a very’ wholesome and agreeable kind ; in daily use at every meal in the East. Lemon.—The expressed juice of the lemon is a most wholesome and pleasant acid. It is extensively used in cookery and confectionery, as well as for various kinds of drinks. If persons would consult their health, it would be even more generally used than it is. Lime is a large species of the lemon kind, and its expressed juice is even more acid than the lemon. Citron.—The juice of the citron is sweeter, and the peel of the fruit is used largely, in a candied state, for puddings and cakes. Vinegar is the fermented liquor of wine and beer, and is a useful and necessary article in common life. Pyroligneous acid is obtained from wood, and is very useful in preserving meat from being tainted, and if used in moderation on bacon and bams, gives the articles a smoky flavour, and preserves them from the hopper, or bacon fly. Salt.—There is no condiment in such general use as salt, and with many individuals the deprivation of it would not only affect their health, but would render their food nauseating and indigestible. Nothing improves the growth of various animals so much as its moderate use. Salt is, next to bread, the most important necessary of life. The con- sumption in Great Britain alone, exclusive of Ireland, is ISO,000 tons per annum. Previously to 1823 there was an oppressive tax of 15s. per bushel on salt in England; and during its continuance the retail price was 4M. per lb. It is now only one halfpenny per lb. It is the chief condiment in all countries, and with every civilised people. Salt in bread is important; the French use less than we do. The ancient laws of Holland sentenced men to be kept on bread unmixed with salt, and in a moist climate the punishment was a severe one. Unlearned.—We have not given the names of the above condiments according to Liniiseus, nor intbeir “natural order”— which we could easily have done—for the reason that we are desirous of malting' this little work “ more useful than ornamental.” «