MILK. 121 Flora Tartaric acid ... one cwt. ten ounces and a half. Mix, and after a day or two add Bicarbonate of soda. Lump sugar ... Salt twelve ounces. half a pound. one pound and a half. Thoroughly mix ahd pass through a dressing-machine or sieve. Less salt will do. “ Twamley, February 7th, 1862. « Dear Mr. Abbott,—I think you may like to have my evidence, as that of a practical bush housewife, in favour of the new bread recipe, which you published in the Advertiser of Jaimary 13th, and I am happy to give my testimony as to its great value in a country household. “ During the past fortnight I have used it frequently, and the bread I have made (for I did not leave the test of the new plan to servants) is so much preferred by us all to any fermented by the old method, that the ‘ yeast keg’ will soon become an obsolete institution in ora house. “I find that the ‘patent cornflour’ mixed accurately by the recipe (except that I omit half the salt), makes lighter, whiter, and sweeter bread than flour worked with yeast; and if mixed lightly with skim-milk instead of water, it is particularly delicate and nice, especially in twists, rolls, or small loaves. “Most country housekeepers, however notable, have at some unlucky time or other experienced the annoyance of finding that the yeast, or, as servants often call it, ‘ the rising,’ would not rise; and then how miserably the batch of hard, dark, lead-like dough sat, a horrid incubus, on the stomachs and tempers of the family and dependants! Such an event may be wiped from the catalogue of household grievances by this excel- lent invention. The quickness of the process is a great advantage, as when the oven is hot it is time enough to begin the bread, which is mixed and made up in five minutes, if the flour be kept ready, and is so good that few stale fragments or old crusts will find their way to the pig-trough, that omnivorous receptacle of unsavoury viands. Long experience has confirmed my old.conviction, that the truest economy is to have eatables so good of their kind, that the consumers shall have no inclination to waste them. The worst food is always the most expensive; and so ‘Jones’s patent flora,’ or, as it is known with us, the ‘Abbott’s bread’ (which is a name savouring of well-furnished refectories and goodliest fare), is a right thrifty as well as a dainty device. “ The thanks of every housewife in the island who has—and where is she who has not ? —suffered the pains and penalties of a ‘ bad baking ’ are due to you for giving publicity to the recipe for the ‘patent flour.’ It will prove a ‘Housekeepers' heavy bread, indigestionT and grumblings relief bill,' and pass into the code of domestic enactments by a large majority of votes, among which pray record mine, and believe me very truly yours, “ Ed. Abbott, Esq.’’ (Signed) “ L. A. Meredith. Expense.—The only objection to using this flour in the Colonies is the high price of soda and acid. In England bicarbonate of soda is about twopence per pound, and tartaric acid, one shilling and sixpence. In the Colonies the retail price is two and five shillings respectively by chemists, and eightpence and three shillings and sixpence by grocers. Now, to make bread of one hundredweight of flora- at the grocers’ price would come to four shillings and twopence, and if yeast or barm were used, the cost would be about one shilling for a quart of yeast, four pounds and a half of salt, and fourteen pounds of potatoes. But with cakes, pies, and puddings, even with the high price of soda and acid, the use of Jones’s patent flora is by far the cheapest in reality, and has the advantage of easy digestion. XXXIX.—IV! ILK. Health, beauty, strength, and spirits, and I might add all the faculties of the mind, ■ depond on the organs of the body ; when they arc in good order, the thinking part is ' most alert and active, the contrary when they are disturbed or diseased.—Dr. Cadogan m Nursing Children. Milk has been so often analysed that it •would seem no further facts ;ould be elicited regarding this important liquid. Professor Boedecker, * however, has just completed a series of experiments conducted on quite a