GERMAN SOUR-KROUT. 188 layer with juniper-berries ; for twenty cabbages use two pounds of salt. When the tub is full, put on a cover which exactly fills the tub ; put on the cover a weight of forty or fifty pounds, and put the tub in a moderate heat. The cabbage sinks when fermentation begins, and the liquor rises to the surface over the cover. When it smells sour, the fermentation has begun; then put the tub into the cellar, keep it covered, and let the pickle cover the sour-krout. Cover it close each time any is taken out. When you use it, wash it in warm water, and stew it in butter or fat. Serve with ham, pickled pork, or sausages. There will be no scurvy on board ship if sour-krout is used occasionally. Salting is employed for certain fruits, as small cucumbers, or gherkins, capers, olives, &c. Even for peas such a method is had recourse to for preserving them a certain time. They must be scalded in hot water, put up in bottles, and covered with saturated brine, having a film of oil on its surface, to exclude the agency of the atmospheric air. Before being used they must be soaked for a short time in warm water, to extract the salt. The most important article of diet of this class is the sciur-kraut, sour herb or cabbage, of the northern nations of Europe, which is prepared simply by salting, a little vinegar being formed spontaneously by fermen- tation. The cabbage must be cut in small pieces, stratified in a cask along with salt, to which juniper-berries and carraway-seeds may be added, and packed as hard as possible by means of a wooden rammer. The cabbage is then covered with a lid, on which a heavy weight is laid. A fermenta- tion commences, while a quantity of juice exudes and floats on the surface, which causes the cabbage to become more compact, and a sour smell is perceived towards the end of the fermentation. In this condition the cask is transplanted into a cool cellar, where it is allowed to stand for use during the year ; and indeed where, if well made and packed, it may be kept for years.— Ure. Turkish Cookert.—They have many dishes which are indeed worthy of the greatest epicure, and I shall not consider my Oriental mission terminated to my satisfaction till I see in the bills of fare of Prance and England their puree de volaille au ris, tomates, et concombres, and puree de Bahamiaaromaticde a la creme, by the side of our potages a lareine, tortue, Julliene, and mulligatawny; near our whitebait, red mullets aux herbes, oyster pilaff, mackerel, salad, &c., and with our roast beef, saddle-back of mutton, and haunch of venison, their sheep, lamb, or kid, roasted whole, and the monster and delicious kebab; by our entrees of supreme de volaille, salmis, and vol-aux-vents, their doulmas kioffee, sis kebabs, hahar-ram bouton, pilaff a,u cailles, &c.; with our vegetables, their Bahamia, fried leeks and celery, partligan bastiei, and sakatk kabac bastici; with our macedoines, jellies, charlottes, &c., their lokounds, mouka halibi, Baclara gyneristi, ekmekataire; their coffee, iced milk, and sherbet; in fact, all their principal dishes might, with the best advantage, be adapted and Frenchified and Anglicised. Not so their method of serving, in which they mix sweet and savoury dishes throughout the repast; and still less likely their eating with their fingers I became acquainted with the principal officer of His Sublime Majesty’s household, called the Hachji Bachji, or General-in-Chief of the Culinary Department. He has under his command, in the various palaces, about 600 men cooks, and had, in the time of Sultan Mahmoud, upwards of 1,000. Having expressed a wish to become acquainted with some of the principal Turkish dishes, and the way in which the dinner was served, he not only gave me the required information, but invited me to a dinner a la Turc, at the new palace of Dolina Batchi. We were only four guests. About seventy small dishes formed a luxurious bill of fare, which, after the Turkish fashion, were partaken of quickly, as the Moslems only taste a mouthful of each dish which may take their fancy. He then informed me that the repast was a facsimile of the dinner daily served to tha Padiseah, who took his meals alone.—Soycr to tha “ Times,” from Constantinople.