WINES. 178 Blanc, 7s.; Hermitage, 73; and Burgundy, 5s. 6d.—Melbourne Argus. Mr. Soloman offered for sale wine from the vineyard of Mr. Gehrig, senior. The Malbec realised 13s.; Brown Muscadel, 11s. 6d.; Aucurot, 8s. 6d.; Tokay, 6s. 6d; Beisling, Gs.; and Black Hamburgh, 6s., per gallon. Advices from London inform us that Reislin", grown hy Mr. Henry Rau, sold for 29s. 6d. Shubach has refused £500 for 500 gallons of his Reisling.—Albury Advcrtisor. The yield of wine for 1862 was at the rate of 182 gallons per acre—a near approach to the average of the French vineyards—190 gallons. —Maitland Mercury. Mr. Wyndham’s celebrated Australian wines are the Balwood and the Bukkulla. Colonial Wines.—The Melbourne journals of a late date announce a sale of wine3 hy the Barnawartha Company, held near Albury, in New South Wales, when the following high prices were obtained, showing either extraordinary competition or a superior quality of the article :—Brown sherry, 6s.; white muscat, 8s.; Malbec, 12s.; brown muscat, 14s.; Hermitage, 15s. Good wine’s the gift whieh God has given To man alone beneath the heaven; Of dance and song the genial sire, Of friendship gay, and soft desire; Yet rule it with a tighten’d rein, Nor moderate wisdom’s rules disdain; For when uncheck’d there’s nought runs faster— A useful slave, but cruel master. Panyasis, in Tonga's “ Deipnosophists.” Victorian Wine.*—Messrs. DeDollon and La Moilo have lately embarked in the sale of colonial wine in William Street, Melbourne. Their cellars are 90 feet in length, hy 40 feet wide, and 15 in height, and hold 12,000 gallons. The temperature of the cellar is kept from 62 degrees to 66 degrees. The cellars at present contain of red wines, hermitage, Burgundy, muscat, and claret; and of white wines, Chasselas, Sauterne, Barsac, Tokay, and Ponillac. The hermitage is the best of the red variety, and is a full-bodied, strong wine, obtained from a judicious blending of different wines with shiraz. The next highest class is the Burgundy—a fine wine, which only requires age to come to perfection. The muscat is a luscious wine. Of the white wines, the Chas- selas is the best, and is rapidly rising in public favour. It is popularly known as the BOB brand, and the demand for it is considerable. It is made from M. Be Bollon’s vineyard at Hanthorn. The Sauterne, Tokay, and Barsac are of a superior kind, and of the vintage of 1863—Messrs. Be Bollon and La Moile having only entered into busi- ness in the latter year. The vignerons from whom the principal portion of the wines was obtained, were M. Bardel and M. Chollet, of the Barrabool Hills. About 5,000 gallons, however, were brought from M. Be Bollon’s own vineyard, which he planted about four years ago. Its extent exceeds twenty-five acres, and contains seven varieties of grape. The celebrated hermitage was manufactured from the vineyard of M. Bardel. Messrs. Be Bollon and La Moile do not fortify their wines with any spirituous compounds, as the admixture only spoils the juice of the grape; but, hy a skilful blend- ing of the different vines, they strive to impart a superior character to their produc- tion. The sale of wine is very considerable, an earnest of what the trine trade will be- come when properly developed, and assisted by wise and prudent legislation. In countries where trine is the principal drink of the inhabitants, there is little or no in- toxication ; and besides, in a sanitary point of view, the juice of the grape being more wholesome than the liquors imported from Europe, its consumi>tion should be encouraged in preference to that of the compounds known as brandy, rum, or ale.— Illustrated Melbourne Post. In Hungary the smallest proprietor possesses his vineyard; for the water is so bad that wine is the common beverage of all; nevertheless, with all its cheap and overflowing produce, the country is essentially a sober one.—Szemcro on Hungarian Wines. Pure Wine.—“Verily, the righteous shall dwell among delights; seated on couches, they shall behold objects of pleasure ; thou shalt see in their faces the brightness of joy. They shall be given to drink of pure wine, sealed; the seal whereof shall be musk, and to this let those aspire who aspire to happiness : and the water therewith shall be Tasnim, a fountain whereof those shall drink who approach unto the Divine pre- sence.”—“ Koran,” chap, lxxxiii. * The folly of legislation cannot bo carried further, than hy Victoria imposing a duty of Is. 6d. a gallon on Tasmanian beer, and Tasmania exacting a duty of 2s. a gallon on Victorian wine!