247 BUTTER. is very little employed at present in Italy, Spain, Portugal, and the southern parts of France.—Beckman. Butter is very extensively used in this and most northern countries; that of England and Holland js reckoned the best. In London the butter of Epping and Cambridge is in the highest repute ; the cows which produce the former feed during summer in the shrubby pastures of Epping Forest, and the leaves of the trees and numerous wild plants which there abound are supposed to improve the flavour of the butter. It is brought to market in rolls, from one to two feet long, weighing a pound each. The Cambridgeshire butter is produced from cows that feed one part of the year on chalky uplands, and in the other on rich meadows or fens. It is made up into long rolls like the Epping butter, and generally salted or cured before being brought to market; the London dealers having washed it and wrought the salt out of it, it frequently sells for Epping butter. The butter of Suffolk and Yorkshire is often sold for that of Cambridgeshire, to which it is little inferior. The butter of Somersetshire is thought equal to that of Epping; it is brought to market in dishes, containing half a pound each, out of which it is taken, washed, and put into different forms by the dealers of Bath and Bristol. The butter of Gloucestershire and Oxford- shire is very good; it is made up into half-pound packs or prints, packed up in square baskets, and sent to the London markets by wagon (? rail). The butter of the mountains of Wales and Scotland, and the moors, commons, and heaths of England is of excellent quality when it is properly managed; and though not equal in quantity, it often is confessedly superior to that produced by the richest meadows.—Loudon's “Encyc. of 1Agriculture.” Considerable quantities of butter are made in Ireland, and it forms a prominent article in the exports of that country ; generally it is very inferior to that of Britain ; but this is a consequence rather of the want of cleanliness and attention than of any inferiority in the milk. Some of the best Irish butter brought to London, after being washed and repacked, is sold as Dorsetshire and Cambridge butter. The salt butter of Holland is superior to that of any other country; large quantities are annually exported. It forms two-tkirds to three-fourths of all the butter we import, the rest being brought from Germany, Belgium, &c. The production and consumption of butter in Great Britain is very great. The consumption of he metropolis may be averaged at eight pounds for each person, and the population to amount to 2,3U0,000 ; the annual con- eumption would amount to 18,400,000 pounds, or 8,214 tons; to this may be added 3,000 tons for victualling ships and other purposes, so that the total consumption would be 11,200 tons, which, at lOd. per pound, would be £1,045,333. The average produce per cow of the butter dairies is estimated by Mr. Marshal at 168 pounds a year, but owing to improve- ments which have been lately made, the yield per cow is now 180 pounds, go that 140,000 cows are required to produce the supply for the London market.—McCulloch's “ Commercial Dictionary." In India butter is denominated rjhee, and is mostly prepared from the milk of buffaloes : it is usually conveyed in dippers, or bottles made of hide, each of which ■ contains from ten to forty gallons. Ghee is an article of considerable