231 FISH OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Eiver Codfish.—In 1835 an enormous head of one of these fish was presented to the Australian Museum by Mr. William Bowman. It was found entangled and strug- gling near the bank in a pond of the Cudcregong liiver, was killed, and brought on shore. It weighed upwards of 1201bs.—Western Fast. Eels—Average about lib. Very excellent eating, or for pies. Native herring—Small. Found on the Yarra in the mouths of December, January, February, and March. Deliciously delicate, and smells like cucumber. Golden bream—Jib. to 31bs. Murray River. Very excellent eating. Silver ditto—Same size. Ditto, ditto. Catfish, or Murray eel—Same size. Ditto, ditto Black perch—Same size. Ditto, ditto. Lobsters—Same size. Ditto, ditto, very delicate. Native oysters—Small. Fresh-water, good. Mussels—Small. Ditto, ditto. The Gottramer.—Sir Henry Barkly, late Governor of Victoria, at present holding a similar position at the Mauritius, in writing to Dr. Black, the secretary of the Melbourne Acclimatisation Society, says:—“ The value of this fish is over-estimated, as, like all fresh-water fish, it depends a good deal on the sauce.” The Evening Mead.— Another day is gone. The sun Has sunk behind yon mountain high. The little stars have just begun To light their bright lamps in the sky. Soft clouds of pink and yellow hue, . Succeed to noon-day skies of blue. In every little cottage home, The wife prepares her husband’s meal. She will no longer be alone ; For round the cottage shadows steal. And looking out with cheerful face, She sees him come with quickening pace. The weary horse his work has done. And man has left his toil till morn; And all do hail the setting sun, As signal true of rest till dawn. The fields deserted, all are gone. And man and beast are trudging home. The meal is o’er, they kneel in prayer; Each little heart and voice unite To thank the good God for his care, And pray for rest till morning light. And then again, with one accord, 1 j.eir voices sweet will praise the Lord. E. and A. Tasmania, in “ Watch's Literary Intelligencer.” C.—FISH OF NEW SOUTH WALES—AUSTRALIA PROPER. Gain as much knowledge de Vart culinaire as you can; it is an accomplishment abso- lutely necessary.—Lady Frances Pelham to herr Son. Snapper (salt water) 21bs. to lOlbs. Good eating. Always in season. Whiting „ —|lb. to 21bs. Most delicate fish. Black Bream „ —21bs. to 81bs. Very good eating.