CLUBS. 2G3 of standard works, books of reference, and maps, are at my command. The newest publications of the day—of any merit—are placed at one table, and upon another are all the morning newspapers. A writing-table, stocked abundantly with foolscap, letter and note paper, envelopes, pens and inkstands, tapers, sealing-wax, and club seals, is in the middle of the chamber, and placed in due order are various kinds of easy chairs and sofas, on which I may lounge, or read, or sleep, as I may think fit. Should the work or the debate which I have undertaken to explore be, as most of the debates now are, excessively prosy and stupid, on a little round table is a box of snuff to asfist me in my endeavours to keep my eyes from closing up their shutters. Starting from one of these sleep-compelling chairs, I ask myself what o’clock it is? I need nob trouble myself to extract my watch from my pocket, for there is a first-rate chronometer on the chimney-piece to answer the question. I am writing a note, and I forget the day of the month ; on the same chimney-piece is a little square black board, with the date of the day on it in white letters. Is my epistle for the general or twopenny post? boxes for each ai’e within a few paces of me in the same chamber. Do I want a frank? Ten to one but a peer or a commoner is sitting at the same table with me, and I would oblige him by asking him to expend an item of his diurnal privileges in my favour. Court guides, red books, navy and army lists, and directories of every kind are within my reach, if I be at a loss for an address ; and if I want a quick and trusty messenger I have only to ring a bell, when, presto! he stands before me. The country newspapers, those of Ireland and Scot- land, the foreign journals, the Aveekly, monthly, and quarterly periodicals are in another apartment, where I spend an hour or two culling sweets from every flower. By this time the evening approaches. Men are hastening in from all quarters to dine, and the savoury odours arising from soups and hot joints, and meat and fruit pies, assist not a little to improve a naturally good appetite. Then the example of so many men eating heartily, and tossing off their bumpers of port, champagne, claret, or burgundy, is, it must be owned, extremely seductive, especially if at my table I be joined by a friend or two, of no new date; with whom I can revive, as the generous grape warms our bosoms, the recollection of happy days spent together. Then we sit, grouped, in the midst of a splendid 3aloon crammed wit! familiar faces: we are served well, dining on a hot joint, abundance of vegetables, pastry, bread, butter, cheese, fruit, all of the best description ; the cookery irreproachable; snow-white table- cloths and napkins, finger-glasses, toothpicks; any wine we choose to ask for; and, if we live with the moderation most conducive to health and comfort, we rise from table at an expense not exceeding three shillings and threepence ! The use of the higher classes of wines will, of course, cause a higher bill. A larger apartment contains wash-hand basins, towels, hair brushes and combs, clothes’ brushes, hat brushes, and other conveniences. Besides this there is a dressing room, where a member can have his things sent to him, in case he should happen to dine at any distance from home. In truth, the club is a home for him whenever he chooses so to consider it. He may look upon the servants of the estab-