SALADS. 66 And, lastly, on the flavoured compound toss A magic teaspoon of anchovy sauce. Then, though green turtle fail, though venison’s tougln And ham and turkey are not boiled enough, Serenely full the epicure may say,— ‘ Fate cannot harm me. I have dined to-day! ’ ” The fastidious declare it a mistake over to wash lettuces: it destroys their crispness, and that it is more correct to eat the insects than to allow water to approach them. Spanish Salad.—Take the lettuce, or any other salad that is to be procured, and tear the leaves off from the stem. Put into a bowl equal quantities of vinegar and water, a tea-spoonful of pepper and salt, and four times as much oil as vinegar and water; mix well together. Chop small on a plate any fine herbs that can be got, especially tarragon and chervil. Immediately before eating pour the sauce over the salad and herbs.—Ford's '■'■Spain." French Salad.—Cut half a pound of cold beef into thin slices, which put into a salad bowl, with a couple of lettuce cut into pieces; season with half a tea-spoonful of salt, one spoonful of vinegar, three of good salad oil, and a tea-spoonful of black pepper, with a little garlic or a shalot cut up fine; mix well together. The French use large quantities of oil and black pepper with their salads, and make them from cold potatoes, white chicory, kidney beans, and various kinds of vegetables. Wo are told that Galen, in the decline of life, suffered much from morbid vigilance, until he had recourse to eating lettuce every evening, which cured him. Lobster and Crayfish Salad.—Cut lobster or crayfish into small pieces, and add the yolk of an egg, boiled hard, a mealy potato, a table- spoonful of vinegar, two of oil, a dessert-spoonful of mustard, half a tea- spoonful of salt, the same of cayenne, and then slice into pieces a couple of medium-sized lettuces. A table-spoonful of cream may be added. Mix the whole well together. To make a proper salad, four different characters are said to be required:—A spend- thrift for oil; a miser for vinegar; a counsellor for salt: and a madman to stir the different ingredients together. Horseradish Salad, for Eoast Beef.—Moisten scraped horseradish with a small quantity of vinegar, add a little moist sugar, a spoonful of mustard, and the yolk of an egg, with a dust of cayenne ; soften the whole with cream to the consistence required. A first-rate relish for beef, hot or cold. Onion Salad.—Mild onions, cut in thin slices, and dressed with pepper and cayenne, and three parts of the best salad oil to one of vinegar, are good, and a fine stomachic. Cucumber Salad are dressed plain in a similar way, and require a large portion of oil and pepper to make them digestible. Meat Salads.—Any kind of meat, fish, or fowl, cut up small and added to a salad, make a light, pleasant, and wholesome meal, especially