138 dinner ceremonial. choice tea, in a cup of yootf (a particular kind of porcelain); let it remain as long as the vapotu’ rises to a cloud, and leaves only a thin mist floating on the surface. At your ease drink this precious liquor, which will chase away the causes of trouble. We can taste and feel, but not describe, the state of repose produced by a liquor thus pre- pared.” Kienliong, after having reigned the term of sixty years, resigned his throne to his son. He died 1799. Tea Making.—In making tea, always use the best and softest water, and on no account let it remain long after the goodness and flavour is extracted from the leaves. Tea was first introduced into England in 1650. An entry appears in the diary of Mr. Pepys, secretary to the Admiralty “ September 26, 1661—I sent for a cup of tea (a Chinese drink), of which I never drunk before ! ” and now, according to Cassell’s Family Paper, the annual consumption of tea in the world is set down at one billion, five hundred and fifty-five million, one hundred thousand pounds ; Great Britain consuming seventy-eight million pounds, and Australia and the Cape seven million pounds ! L.—DINNER CEREMONIAL. Antipholus of Eplicsus. You are sad, Signor Balthazar. Pray God our cheer May answer my good will, and your good welcome here. Balthazar. I hold your dainties cheap, sir, and your welcome dear. Antipholus. O Signor Balthazar, either at flesh or fish, A table full of welcome makes scarce one dainty dish. Balthazar. Good meat, sir, is common: that every churl affords. Antipholus. And welcome more common; for that’s nothing but words. Comedy of Errors. We have extracted the following remarks from the Quarterly Eeview on the “ Codes of Manners and Etiquette vol. v., 1837, which are of interest to the giver of dinners as well as the guests:— “ In Germany dinner parties are of rare occurrence, except in the capitals and among the higher classes, whose habits and manners are nearly the same all over Europe. But dinner parties are now quite common in France, and an infinity of rules regarding them are included in the French books on etiquette. We extract the following compre- hensive paragraphs from a chapter of the ‘ Code,’ entitled, ‘ Theorie da Diner en Yille ’:— “ ‘ When all the guests assembled in the drawing-room have been presented to one another by the master of the house, and dinner is announced, he rises, invites the company to follow him into the dining- room, and gives the example by leading the way. You ought not to rise till after the Amphitryon, and each gentleman offers his hand to a lady, to conduct her to her cover, on which her name is inscribed. So soon as all are seated the host helps the soup, a heap of plates being placed for that purpose on his left; these he sends round, beginning with his left- hand neighbour. The servants take away the empty plates, upon which each leaves his spoon. We might here detail a number of trifling usages that one is bound to observe; but to know these it is only sufficient to have dined twice in good company. Politeness requires that the gen- tleman placed next a lady should save her every sort of trouble, keeping watch over her plate and glass. Placed in the centre of the table, the Amphitryon must not lose sight of any of his guests ; it is he who carves,