KETCHUP. 19G then grate a whole nutmeg over it. This will keep it almost any length- of time, and adds a nice flavour. To Cure a Bound of Beef in Hot Weather, or if needed for Imme- diate Use.—Bub in thoroughly a rather large quantity of fine Liverpool salt, with a little saltpetre, then place it over a tub or pan of water on two sticks, placing a good quantity of salt on the upper side; turn it once after twelve hours, laying additional salt on the turned-up side. It will be cured in twenty-four hours. Should it be required at once, with a small squirt or syringe, if cold brine be at hand, it might be squirted into all the crevices, and then it could be cooked in twelve hours. ] f beef is not required in a hurry, a little sugar and less salt very much improves the flavour. This applies to curing hams. The three last recipes were kinclly furnished by a lady, whose mode of salting beef and dressing hams for the table has been much approved of, so much so; that she ha3 supplied the modus operandi to several excellent gastronomical judges. Female Requirements.—It should never he forgotten that household service is the only school that many a woman ever passes through, and to many a woman it is a per- nicious school. If she has never learned to save in the midst of plenty, she cannot begin to save under the pressure of small means. As she has never had reason for turning small things to account—to make the most of odds and ends—she is often reduced, and reduces her husband, to a recurring necessitude of one day’s feasting and three or four days’ fasting, with an intermediate day of scraps; and she is utterly ignorant of the thousand ways of dressing vegetables with a little meat or fish, so as to make the absence of a more substantial dish unregretted. And this happens iu a million homes in a country which has, on the whole, the finest fish, the richest and most succulent meats, and produces or imports poultry, eggs, and butter, to an extent which precludes their excessive dearness at any season. And while this happens to us, the French peasant, with far lower wages, with fewer materials of food, is making savoury dishes and healthy condiments out of the simplest produce of the field and the moor. "Who can wonder, then, that while an English army is half-starved, despite numerous appliances and supplies, a French army feeds itself out of the rudest of Nature’s gifts ? Miss Burdett Coutts, and Lord Ashburton, who took the lead which she has so well followed, will have earned the gratitude of the country if they have done nothing more than set people thinking about the amelioration of their cookery, and lead high teachers to consider that the art of feeding is really a science which affects the well- being of twenty million citizens of England, and may often affect the existence of some quarter of a million soldiers abroad; and our social reformers will do well by following her example, and teaching the people of England that which, to the majority of them,, is still a great secret—what food to buy, and how to cook it.—The London “ Times." LXXVII.—KETCHUP. To speak, then, of the knowledges which belong to our English housewife, I hold the most principal to be a perfect skill in cookery. She that is utterly ignorant therein may not, by the laws of strict justice, challenge the freedom of marriage—because, indeed, shee can perform but half her vow—shee may love and obey, but shoe cannct cherish and keepe her husband.—Markham’s “English Housewife," 1637. Mushroom Ketchup.—Syn.: Catchup, catsup, katcliup, ketchup. Sprinkle mushrooms, fresh gathered, with common salt for three days, then squeeze out the juice, and to each gallon add cloves and nms- lard-seed of each half an ounce; all-.pice, black pepper, and ginger bruised, one ounce; boil sufficiently. The above is from Cooleys