132 HOME-MADE WINES AND CORDIALS. the same time that it was a cure for the gout, and after a short time wrote to- his lordship soliciting an order. The earl laconically replied “that he had tasted the wine, hut preferred the gout! "—Newspaper paragraph. _ White Champagne.—Pour three quarts of water to one gallon of fruit, and let the mixture stand a week, after the gooseberries have been well macerated; then strain through a sieve, and add to every gallon of liquor four pounds of loaf sugar, or the best crystallised sugar. Let the fermentation go on for several days, then pass the liquor through a jelly- bag into the cask, leaving it open until the fermentation has nearly sub- sided, but not quite. When the fermentation is in the latter state, bung the cask up, having previously inserted a small quantity of brandy. Let it remain twelve months, and then bottle, and you will have excellent wine. The great difficulty is to know when to bung up, for if you do it too soon, the cask will explode—and crashing work such an event is; if too late, the wine will not be brisk. Mind, the fruit must be unripe, just on the turn. It lias been stated that Lord Haddington, a first-rate judge of wines, had a bottle of gooseberry and a bottle of Epernay champagne once placed before him, and that his lordship mistook the home-made for the genuine article, as Jonathan has it. Ginger Wine.—Boil half a pound of bruised ginger and fourteen pounds of loaf sugar in six gallons of water; pour the liquor on the rind of a dozen lemons. Let it stand until cool, and then add the lemon- juice and half a cup of yeast. Let the fermentation proceed ; and before you bottle the wine, add a pint of brandy. An old lady’s specific for many ailments. Lemon and Orange Wine.—Boil ten pounds of loaf sugar in four gallons of water for half an hour, and pour the liquor on the rind of eighteen oranges and lemons ; squeeze the fruit, and boil it in a syrup with two pounds of white sugar; mix the syrup with the liquor, and let it cool. Ferment with a little yeast. When the fermentation subsides, bung it down, and bottle in three or four months. We could elaborate these wine recipes with rhubarb-leaf, carrot, turnip, parsnip, birch, cowslip, mead, apple, plum, and every kind of fruit and vegetable; but we abstain from so doing, leaving the choice to the “ gude huawii.” OORDIALS. Cherry Bounce.—To six pounds of morella cherries add three pounds of loaf sugar and two ounces of powdered bitter almonds; pour over them two quarts of the best brandy. Let it remain steeped, and afterwards bottle according to taste. Some prefer the cherries entire remaining in the brandy ; others strain away both fruit and kernels. Noyeau.—Blanch and pound two pounds of bitter almonds, and put to them a gallon of brandy, with two pounds of white sugar and a little spice. Stir it, and let the spirit remain in the almonds for a month, when the noyeau may be bottled for use. Katafia.—Blanch two ounces of peach, apricot, or other kernels, and put them in a bottle. Dissolve half a pound of white sugar-candy in a