239 SCRAPS AND SAYINGS. outer side of these tables that the guests reclined; the inner space was left untenanted for the greater convenience of the waiters, or ministri. The extreme corner of one of the wings was appropriated to Julia, as the lady of the feast, and next to her, to Xiiomed. At one corner of the centre table was placed the iEdile; at the opposite comer the Roman senator. These were the posts of honour. The other guests were arranged so that the young (gentleman or lady) should sit next each other, and the more advanced in years be similarly matched : an agfeeable provision enough, but one which must often have offended those who wished to be thought still young. The chair of lone was next to the couch of Glaucus. The seats were veneered with tortoise- shell, and covered with quilts, with feathers, and ornamented with the costly embroi- deries of Babylon. The modern ornaments of Epergne or Plateau were supplied by images of the gods, wrought in bronze, ivory, or silver. The sacred salt-sellar and the familiar harles were not forgotten. Over the table and the seats a rich canopy was sus- pended from the ceiling. At each corner of the table were lofty candelabra®, for, though it was early noon, the room was darkened; while four tripods, placed in different parts of the room, distilled the odour of myrrh and frankincense; and upon the abacus, or sideboard, large vases and various ornaments of silver were arranged, with much the same ostentation, but with more than the same taste, that we find dis- played at a modern feast.—The Last Days of Pompeii. CIV—SCRAPS AND SAYINGS. A green apricot tart is commonly considered the best tart that is made, but a green apricot pudding is a much better thing. A cherry dumpling is better than a cherry tart. A rhubarb pie is greatly improved by a slight infusion of lemon when eaten. A beef-steak pudding, again, is better than the corresponding pie; but oysters and mush- rooms are essential to its success. A mutton-chop pudding with oysters, but without mushrooms, is excellent.—The Quarterly Review. # If you would avoid waste in your family, attend to the following rules, and do not despise them because they appear so unimportant. “ Many a little makes a mickle.” See that the beef and pork are always under brine, and that the brine is sweet and clean. Count towels, sheets, spoons, &c., occasionally, that those who use them may not become careless. See that the vegetables are neither sprouting nor decaying; if they are so, remove them to a drier place, and spread them. Examine preserves, to see that they are not contracting mould ; and your pickles, to see that they are not growing soft and tasteless. As far as possible, have bits of bread eaten before they become hard. Take care of those noo eaten, for puddings. Attend to all mendings in the house once a week; never put out sewing if it be possible to do it in your own family. Make your own bread and cake. Some people think it is just as cheap to buy it of the baker or confectioner. It is not half so cheap, and, in the next place, your domestic or yourself may just as well employ their own time as to pay for that of others. When ivory-handled knives turn yellow, rub them with fine sand- paper or emery ; it will take off the spots and restore their whiteness. When a carpet is faded, it must be dipped in salt and water to bring round the colour. An ox gall will set any colour, silk, cotton, or woollen.