190 VEGETABLE ESSENCES AND TINCTURES. a little vinegar, and pot them. A little powdered mace may be added. Meats, fowl, game, fish, ham, and salt meats are potted in a similar way. Dartencuf. Alas! poor Apicius, I pity tliee much for not having: lived in my age and my country. How many good dishes have I ate in England that were unknown in Rome in thy days ? Apicius. Keep your pity to yourself—how many good dishes have I ate in Rome, the knowledge of which lias been lost in these latter degenerate days ? The fat paps of a sow, the livers of scari, the brains of phenicopters, and the tripotatum—which con- sisted of three sorts of fisli for which you have no names—the lupis marrnus, the myxo, and the mursenus.—Dialogues of the Dead. LXXIV-ORANGE-FLOWER WATER. At this instant the slaves appeared, bearing a tray covered with the first preparative of the feast. Amidst delicious tigs, fresh herbs strewed with snow, anchovies, and eggs, were ranged small cups of diluted wine sparingly mixed with honey. As these were placed on the table, young slaves bore round to each of the five guests (for there were no more) the silver basin of perfumed water and napkins edged with a purple fringe.—The Last Days of Pompeii. Orange-flower water has been a fixvourite perfume in England since tbe reign of James I. It occurs in Copley’s “ Wits, Fits, and Fancies,” 1614 ; and in the “Accomplished Female Instructor,” 1719, is the follow- ing recipe:— Take two pounds of orange-flowers, as fresh as you can get them, infuse them in two quarts of white wine, and so distil them, and it will yield a curious perfuming spirit. Orange butter was made, according to the “ Closet of Rarities,” 1706, by heating up new cream, and then adding orange-flower and red wine^to give it the colour and scent of an orange.—Things Not Generally Known. Utopian, very.—At the hours of dinner and supper, the syphogranty, being called together by sound of trumpet, meet and eat together, except only such as are in the hospitals, or lie sick at home. Yet after the halls are served no man is hindered to carry provisions from the market-place, for they know he does that for some good, reason, yet none does it willingly, since it is both an indecent and foolish thing for any to give themselves the trouble to make ready an ill dinner at home, when there is a much more plentiful one made ready for him so near at hand. All the uneasy and sordid services about these halls are performed by the slaves ; but the dressing and cooking of their meat, and the ordering of their tables, belong only to the women, which goes round all women of every family by turns.—Utopia; or, the Happy Republic. LXXV.—VEGETABLE ESSENCES AND TINCTURES: Pharmaceutical preparations, generally consisting of certain remedies dissolved in rectified or proof spirits. Tinctures are generally made by digesting bruised or pulverised vegetable substances in the spirit, either at common temperature, or aided by heat.—Brande. The flavour or extract of cayenne, lemon-peel, celery, ginger, allspice, nutmeg, cloves and mace, cinnamon, marjoram, and herbs of any kind, may be obtained by infusing the different ingredients in rectified spirits or brandy, and allowing them to steep for a month or more, and then straining the liquor for use. There is one important matter that must- be strictly looked to—the various articles must be good of their kind, and