o SOUPS. <■> Mock Turtle Soup.—Line tlie bottom of a stew pan that will hold five pints with an ounce of lean bacon or ham, a pound and a half of lean gravy beef, a cow-heel, the inner rind of a carrot, a sprig of lemon-thyme, winter-savory, three times the quantity of parsley, a few green leaves of sweet basil, and two shalots; put in a large onion with four cloves stuck in it, eighteen corns of allspice, the same of black pepper; pour on these a quarter of a pint of cold vrater, cover the stewpan, and set it on a slow fire to boil gently for a quarter of an hour; then, for fear the meat should catch, take olf the cover, and watch it; and when it has got a good brown colour, fill up the stewpan with boiling water, and let it simmer gently for two hours. If you wish to have the full benefit of the meat, only stew it till it is just tender, cut it into mouthfuls, and put it into the soup. To thicken it, pour to two or three table-spoonfuls of flour a ladleful of the gravy, and stir it quickly till it is well mixed ; pour it back into the stewpan where the gravy is, and let it simmer gently for half an hour longer ; skim it, and then strain it through a tamis into the stewpan. Cut the cow-heel into pieces about an inch square; squeeze through a sieve the juice of a lemon, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of ground black pepper, a little nutmeg, and a glass of sherry or Madeira; let it simmer for five minutes. Forcemeat or egg balls may be added. The above is Dr. Kitchener’s celebrated recipe; but mock turtle is made infinitely superior from calf’s-head. Pea Soup.—To make pea soup, you must first soak the peas over night, say a pint; then put them on to simmer in two quarts of water, with some mutton bones, two heads of celery, a sprig of savory, and a little sweet marjoram, pepper, and salt; let it simmer for an hour. Add an onion, cut small; when nearly done, take out the mutton bones, and add a pound of bacon, cut into little pieces. Serve with toasted bread and powdered mint. Pea soup is invariably made first-rate on board ship. Pumpkin Soup.—Take part of a pumpkin, pare off the skin and re- move the seeds; cut it into small pieces, and place them in a stewpan on the fire, with some water. When the pumpkin is pulped, put in about half a quarter of a pound of butter, and a little salt. Boil a quart of milk, and mix it with the pumpkin pulp. Put some bread, cut in thin slices, in the tureen, z id pour the soup hot over it. Potage Maigre.—(For Fast Days.) A soup maigre can be made by using vegetables boiled tender enough to be rubbed through a tamis; add a piece of butter, and the yolks of three eggs well beaten. Add. water to the soup before the eggs are put in. Soup Maigre.—(Another icay.) Melt a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan, shake it well, and throw in half a dozen sliced onions; shake the pan for a few minuses, then put in a few heads of celery, two handfuls of spinach, two cabbage lettuces, cut small, and some parsley ; shake the pan well for five minutes, put in two quarts of water, some