BOASTING. 11 that of five years. If younger than three years, it is deficient in flavour, and its flesh is pale. Meat which is half mutton and half lamb is very unpalatable food. M. Tide says — “ Always choose mutton of a dark colour and marble-like appearance.” — The Yeoman. Portuguese Eoast Pork.—Cut the skin of the loin across at the distance of half an inch; roast as usual. Cut two onions up small, and: put'them into the dripping-pan, with a pint of vinegar; baste well with this, and serve hot. Eoast Pork.—Every kind of pork must be well done. Under-done pork is unbearable. Should a joint appear in this state, on with the grid- iron and prepare for a grill. A leg of pork to be well roasted requires full three hours; but this, again, all depends on the fire, and whether the fire radiates well from the screen. Pork must invariably be scored, and the leg must be stuffed with sage and onion, mixed fine, and bread crumbs, with pepper and salt. Rub a little salad oil on the skin to crisp the crackling, and do not put the meat too near the fire at first. Serve with apple sauce. The sparerib, the loin, the cliine, and any other part of the pig, may be roasted. At New Zealand, among the Maoris, the meat (pork) must be well done. “A Pakeha Maori,” in his “ History of the War of the North of New Zealand,” against the chief. Held (a most interesting little book), tells us that these people, like the Romans of old, and the Thugs of our day, believe in omens; and that it is a bad augury on any occasion when business of importance is on hand, or before a battle, if the food is served under-done. Eoast Sucking Pig.—This is a bonne louche of the epicure, and must be very carefully roasted. Rub the skin all over with salad oil, and stuff the pig with onion, sage, and bread crumbs, mixed together with egg, some pepper and salt. Baste the pig well, as everything depends on this attention. The pettitoes, liver, and brains are generally made into gravy, and served up in a sauce tureen with the pig. Very good baked. Sucking Pigs.—Roasted sucking pigs are a dish mentioned by Eiiicrates in his “Merchant:”— “ On this condition I will be the cook; Nor shall all Sicily boast that even she Produced so great an artist as to fish. Nor Ellis either, where Pve seen the flesh Of dainty sucking pigs well brown’d before A rapid fire.” The Dcipnosopliists. Roast Pig.—Of all the delicacies in the whole mundits edibilus, I will maintain it to be the most delicate—p bleeps obsoniorum. I speak not of your grown porkers—those hobble-dehoys—but a young and tender suckling, under a moon old, guiltless as yet of the stye, with no original speck of the amor immunditice, the hereditary failing of the first parent, yet manifest; his voice as yet not broken, but something between a childish treble and a grumble, tho mild forerunner or preludium of a grunt. He must be roasted. I am not ignorant that our ancestors ate them seethed or boiled; but what a sacrifice of the exterior tegument! There is no flavour comparable, I will contend, to that of the crisp, tawny, well-washed, not over-roasted, crackling, as it is well called. The very teeth are invited to tho share of the pleasure at this banquet in overcoming- the coy, brittle resistance, with the adhesive oleaginous—call it not fatl but an inde- finable sweetness growing up to it—the tender blossoming of fat—fat cropped in the bud—taken in the shoot—in the first innocence—the cream and quintessence of the child-pig*s yet pure food; tho lean no lean, but a Icind of animal manna—or, rather, fat and lean (if it must be so)—so blended and running into each other, that both together make but one ambrosial result, or common substance.—Charles Lamb.