VEGETABLES. 117 gold-wurzel, and radish-tops, are all boiled in a similar way until tender, and not allowed to sodden in the water. Turnips, after boiling, are mashed, and served in that state, with a piece of butter added to them. A small bit of charcoal boiled with vegetables will counteract their bitter taste, or a little sugar will answer the same purpose. Hari- cot beans are best parboiled in one water, and finished in another boiling water. In boiling vegetables never keep the lid on the saucepan. Vegetables assist the stomach in digesting food, such as pork, goose, and wild fowl. The acid in apple sauce, the lemon-juice and vinegar, are all assistants to digestion; as we have the high authority of Dr. Mayo, “that the palate has suggested, and philosophy has approved, of the association.” Cabbage.—According to ancient poetry, translated, cabbage is an antidote to tbo effect of drink:— “ Last evening you were drinking deep. So now your bead acbes. Go to sleep ; Take some boil’d cabbage when you wake. And there’s an end of your headache.” The Egyptians are said to eat boiled cabbage before the rest of their food to this time. The onion—though said to form one of the connecting links between an alimentary root and a condiment, must be considered valuable on account of its stimulating matter —certainly contains a considerable proportion of nourishment. This appears evident in its boiled state, by which process its acrimony is exhaled, and a sweet mucilage separated. Sir John Sinclair says that it is a well-known fact, that a Highlander, -with a few raw onions in his pocket, and a crust of bread, or some oat cake, can travel almost to an incredible extent, for two or three days together, without any other food. The French are fully aware of the quantity of nourishment this plant affords; hence the soup, a Voignon, is considered by them as the best of all restoratives. As a stimulant to the stomach and bowels, the onion, in a raw state, is certainly of value, and this is much enhanced by its diuretic qualities. The leek, garlic, and shalot are of the same species, and possess qualities of the same nature.—Paris on Diet. Asparagus k la Frangais.—Boil some asparagus, and chop tlio heads and tender parts of the stalks, together with a boiled onion, into small pieces; add a little salt and pepper, and the beaten yolk of an egg; beat up, and serve on sippets of toasted bread, with melted butter poured over. Purees.—This is generally the French preparation of vegetables, and we shall only give one recipe, for the mode is merely to pulp the vegetables through a sieve, and add a little stock or butter. Purees, when served with meat, are entrevicts, if they are served alone, they should be accom - panied with fried or toasted bread. Puree of Green Peas.—Take two quarts of shelled green peas; put them into boiling water, and let them boil with a little parsley, chives, and salt; strain them, and rub them through a sieve ; add a little butter or gravy ; warm them up again, and serve. Purges may be made of the pods of peas, of dried peas, beans, haricots, onions, celery, pumpkin, succory, turnips, carrots, lentils, aud every vegetable that grows, and sometimes of meats, which come on the table pappy and spiced, so that one does not know from the taste what he is eating. We cannot recommend them. AU kinds of vegetables are excellent stowed. Marrows, carrots, peas, cauliflowers, f onions, either m white sauce or brown gravy, are very correct accompaniments to