HAMS, BACON, AND SALT MEAT. 192 similar in amount to the saltpetre used, which will effectually prevent rust, and it has the effect of making hams more mellow. The above is the mode adopted by au amateur, who is a good judge of such matters, and who cures excellent bacon, hams, and pig’s checks • but we prefer the following simple plan :— Hams.—If the weather will allow it, let them hang for a few days. Mix in proportion one ounce of black pepper, one ounce of allspice, one ounce of saltpetre, half a pound of salt, and half a pound of sugar with a quart of beer; boil them together, and pour them hot on the hams, and turn them in this pickle for three weeks. Let the ham drain, and brush it over with pyroligneous acid, and sprinkle over it some sharps, bran, or pollard. Or the following recipe:—One pound and a half of brown sugar, two pounds and a half of salt, and half a pound of saltpetre; rub it dry on the hams, bacon, and cheeks, and turn every day for the first ten days, and afterwards every other day. Use the acid, and bran it as before. When a pig is killed the hog’s lard must be carefully melted and run into jars, and the prudent housewife will not allow the time to pass for making sausages or black puddings, to do which proceed as follows :— Black Puddings.—The blood must be stirred with salt until cold. Put a quart of it to a quart of grits or boiled rice, and soak some bread in milk. Clean the grits well with salt and water. Chop winter savory, thyme, pennyroyal, pepper, and salt, and a little ground spice; mix these about with three pounds of beef suet, or the fat of the pig; add six eggs well beaten up. Then add the rice, or grits, and bread, and fill your skins. White puddings are made in a similar way with cream, without the blood, but are far inferior in taste or goodness. Salting.—The meat should be rubbed well with common salt, containing about l-16th of saltpetre, and l-32nd of sugar, till every crevice has been impregnated with it; then sprinkled over with salt, laid down for twenty-four or forty-eight hours, and, lastly, subject to pressure. It must be next sprinkled anew with salt, packed into proper vessels, and covered with the brine obtained in the act of pressing, rendered stronger by boiling down. For household purposes it is sufficient to rub the meat well with good salt, to put it into vessels, and load it with heavy weights, in 01 der to squeeze out as much pickle as will cover its surface. If this cannot be had, a pickle must be poured on it, composed of four pounds of salt, one pound of sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre dissolved in two gallons of water. M. Fitch patented the use of a liquid containing two cwt. of common salt to the product of distillation of two cwt. of wood, adding sugar, treacle, and saltpetre. Some people drive the salt by force of pressure, some by centrifugal motion. Milk has been preserved by the use of carbonate of soda, preventing acidity. Alum has been patented, for shell-fish especially.—Ore. Westphalia Hams.—These usually come by way of Hamburg, and owe their fine flavour to their being “ cold smoked." The hams are hung in the upper part of the building; the smoke is generated in the cellar, and carried up to the smoking-room through tubes. During its ascent it deposits all moisture, and when it comes in contact with the hams it is both dry and cold, so that no undue change occurs in the meat while being smoked.—Newspaper paragraph. Mild Pickle.—The following is an excellent mild pickle, and meat put into it will remain mellow, and not briny, for months at a time :— Water, four gallons; salt, a quart and a half; saltpetre, a wine-glassful; boil and skim. . . If meat is required for early use dry salting is the most expeditious