THE DINNER HOUR. 200 bo made for domestic purposes by adding to a syrup, consisting of one pound and a quarter of sugar for every gallon of water, a quarter of a pint of good yeast. The liquor being maintained at a heat of from 75° to 80° F., acidification will proceed so well that in two or three days it may ba racked off from the sediment into the ripening cask, where it is to be mixed with one ounce of cream of tartar aud one ounce of crushed raisins. When completely freed from the sweet taste, it should be drawn off into bottles, and closely corked up. The jtrees of currants, gooseberries, and many other indigenous fruits, may be acetified either alone or in combi- nation with syrup. It will keep better than malt vinegar, on account of the absence of gluten; and at the present low price of sugar will not cost more, when fined upon beech chips, than a shilling per gallon.—Ure. The Philosophers at Dinner.—No wonder that these dinners had the reputation «f being the best in London, nor that there should have been a great desire to dine at the Royal Society Club. It was tho opinion of a distinguished aristologist that “a great deal of English spirit is owing to good dinners; and that as long as men are emboldened by good cheer they are in no d mger of becoming slaves.” We are indebted to a French savant for a picture of the philosophers at dinner a century ago, which, making every allowance for high |colouring, is probably sufficiently faithful to be accepted as true. It is drawn by M. St. Fond, who travelled in England in the middle of the last century, and dined at the club on the occasion of the Elector Palatine being admitted in the Royal Society :—We sat down at live o’clock. The dinner was truly English, for there were no napkins. Grace was said by the astronomer, Maskelyne, after which we set to. The dishes consisted of huge joints of beef and mutton, roasted and boiled, and abundant supplies of potatoes and other vegetables, which each person seasoned as he pleased with the different sauces on the table. The viands were liberally watered (arrosi) with great potations of a kind of strong beer, called porter, drank out of pewter pots, which are preferred to glasses, because they hold a pint. This prelude over, the cloth was removed, and the table covered, as if by magic, by numerous crystal decanters filled with excellent port, Madeira, and claret. Several wine glasses were placed before each guest, and drinking was prosecuted vigorously, the desire to drink being encouraged by various descriptions of cheese, which were rolled from one end of the table to the other in mahogany boxes mounted on wheels. Toasts were now given, the first being for the health of the Royal family, then that of the Elector Palatine and the visitors, and, finally, each member of the club drank the health of his brother members, one by one, for it would be considered a great want of politeness to drink the health of more than one person at a time. When this formality terminated, champagne was introduced, which had the effect of putting every one in good humour (d'egager tout le month). Tea followed the champagne, served with bread and butter and toast, and this was succeeded by coffee, which was very inferior to the tea. In France it is the custom to drink only one cup of excellent coffee ; the English drink live or six cups of a vile decoction they call coffee. Brandy, rum, and other spirituous liquors wound up this philosophical banquet, which terminated at half-past seven. We then went to a meeting of the Royal Society, everybody being—but we prefer here using M. St. Fond’s own words: “Fort gris mais d’une gaiete ducente."—Fraser’s Magazine. LXXIXTHE DINNER HOUR, Luciana. Dromio, go, bid the servants spread for dinner.—Comedy of Errors. The proper hour for dinner is laid down by Thomas Cogan, a phy- sician, in a book entitled the “Haven of Health,’’printed in 15S4, as follows:— “ When foure houres bee past after breakfast, a man may safely take his dinner; and the most convenient time for dinner is about eleaven of