63 MACARONI AND VERMICELLI. 5. Fennel seeds, corianders, cinnamon, and sugar, finely beaten and mixed with grated bread or flour. / 6. For young pigs: grated bread or flour mixed with beaten nutmeg,. ginger, pepper, sugar, and yolk of eggs. 7. Sugar, bread, and salt mixed. Bastings.— 1. Fresh butter. 2. Clarified suet. 3. Minced sweet herbs, butter, and claret—especially for mutton and lamb. 4. Water and salt. 5. Cream and melted butter—especially for a flayed pig. 6. Yolk of eggs, grated biscuit, and juice of oranges.—May's “Accom- plished Cook." London, 1665. Garnishes.—Boiled parsley is the universal garnish for all kinds of cold meat, poultry, fish, butter, cheese, &c. Horseradish is the garnish for roast beef, and with fish it is used alternately with sliced lemon. Lemons sliced are used for fowl and fish, as well as veal and calf’s head. Carrot sliced for boiled beef. Barberries for game. Red beet for cold meat and fish. Fried smelts are used as a garnish for turbot, or any large fish. Sausages or forcemeat balls for turkey or fowl. Lobster, coral, and parsley to boiled fish. Fennel for mackerel and salmon. Currant jelly is used as a garnish to bread and custard pudding. Seville oranges for wild ducks and teal. Mint for lamb, and pickles for some meats and stews. Nasturtiums and other flowers to pastry, custard, and jelly. Egg-snow Trifle.—This is a garnish for made-dishes or pastry. Whites of eggs must be beaten up to a froth in a vessel perfectly free from moisture of any kind, or grease. The whisk must be well done, and then ladled a spoonful at a time into boiling water. It will immediately set into a beautiful firm and white sponge, having the appearance of snow, and is used as frost-work to surround dishes of all kinds. Great care must be taken in the manipulation, and we need not say that the eggs must be fresh. Dai.laway’s Servants’ Monitor.—1. Do everything in its proper time. 2. Keep everything to it3 proper use. 3. Put everything in its proper place. XViil.—MACARONI AND VERMICELLI. Macaroni i3 a dough of fine wheat flour, made into a tubicular or pipe form, of the thickness of goose-quills, which was first prepared in Italy, and introduced into commerce in the name of Italian or Genoese paste. The wheat for this purpose must be ground into a coarse flour, called granu or semoulc by the French, by means of a pair ot light millstones, placed at somewhat greater distance than usual. This seinoule is the ^substance employed for making the dough.—TJrc. lo Dress Macaroni.—Put the quantity required on the fire to boil, cither in milk or water, Avith a little salt; when done, take the macaroni out of the- liquid, and put into a tin dish that will fit into a toaster or