XXXVII.-TO AST ED CHEESE. Happy the man that has each fortune tried, To whom she much has given and much denied; With abstinence all delicacies he sees. And can regale himself on toasted cheese.—King. If toasted cheese is to be ate in perfection, the cheese must be mild, not too poor, nor too rich. There must be fitted into the toaster six or eight movable small tin dishes. Have them of silver, if you can afford the expense. The least bit of butter is put in the tin, at the bottom, with the cheese; or a little ale; it is then exposed to the fire until done. This dish must not be attempted unless it can be served hot; and on such an occasion, if perfection is aimed at, ceremony must be dis- regarded. Even to wait for pepper, salt, and mustard, is time that cannot be spared by the real gourmet on this plat. The caution of the author of “Vanity Fair” would apply with full force to toasted cheese:— “ My dear fellow, don’t let us speak a word until we have finished this dish ! ” or the observation of Lord Guloseton in “ Pelham,” after sitting- down to dinner :—“ My dear friend, this is no time for talking ; let us eat.” Cheese.—Old cheese taken in small quantities after dinner is a good digester. The only post-prandial item at the Beef Steak Society is a stew of cheese in a silver dish. A Bumpkin at Dinner.— Hodge to the squire’s once went to dine. And drank his fill of beer and wine; Next day, being asked how he had fared. Says he, “ D’you know I summut stared. That arter guttlin’ soup and fish. An’ wenson in a silver dish, Plumpoodden, an’ sich things as these. They brout me in plain bread and cheese.—Punch’s Almanack. Welsh Eabbit, or Karebit.—Toast a slice of bread on both sides, and butter it; toast a slice of mellow cheese on one side, and lay that next the bread, and toast the other with a salamander; rub mustard over, and serve hot and covered. XXXVIII.-JONES’S PATENT FLOUR. • “a *ry,” alone ensure success in cookery; and a few years’ experience is better than a volume on the art. A medical man once asked Ude why cooks had not weights and measures as apothecaries ? To which Ude replied, “ We taste our recipes, whereas doctors seldom taste those they are mixing; wherefore they must have exact measures. Rationale of Cookery in “ Things not Generally Known.” We arc indebted to Cooley’s “ Practical Receipts ” for this mixture, and can vouch for its goodness, and the ease with which bread is made from