15 BOILING. An Aitch. or H Bone of Beef.—This is boiled like the round, and the slower it boils the better it will look, and the more tender it will be. Serve with carrots or parsnips. This common dish has a variety of names. It is called edge-hone, haunch-hone, hook-bone, each-hone, ridge-hone, watch-bane, and inche-bone. Calf’s Head Boiled.—Tie the head in a cloth, and boil for two hours in plenty of water. Tie the brains up in a separate cloth, with a little parsley and a leaf of sage ; boil them one hour, chop them small, warm them up in a saucepan, with a little butter, pepper, and salt. Lay the tongue, which has been boiled at the same time, peeled, in the middle of a small dish ; place the brains round it. Or mince the brains and put them into parsley and butter, and pour over the head, and serve with bacon, ham, or pickled pork in another dish. Lemon garnish. Eice.—Rice is not often boiled properly, and there is nothing so easily done. The usual mode is to boil the grains until they are done, and then put the rice into a colander to drain. The Indian mode is to put the rice into water, and allow the grain to absorb all the moisture; at the same time, it must not burn. It must be served in curries quite dry, so that each grain will separate; if over-done, it becomes pappy. The best rice requires little washing and no soaking. The black fellows’ recipe is: “ Wash him well, water boil, throw in rice ; boil short time, rice drink all water. When done, him dry, put in little cold water, so rice not stick.” Cow-heel, Boiled.—Let it be perfectly clean, and boil it well for five or six hours, together with five or six onions and a quart of milk. Add a little salt. Serve with parsley and butter, and a little ham, bacon, or corned pork. There is nothing more wholesome than cow-heel; whether in the shape as above, or fried, potted, or made into soi-ip, it is equally nutritious and agreeable. Neck of mutton and caper sauce; leg of lamb, -with spinach; knuckle of veal, with parsley and butter; beef boulli, with parsley and butter; hams, bacon, tongues, aitch- bone and brisket of beef; pickled pork and greens; rabbits and tripe, with cream sauce, or smothered in onions, are all well in their way, if properly boiled and served, not forgetting a boiled leg or hand of corned pork, with accompaniment of pease-pudding. Bacon, boiled along with rice, for a summer dish, is also by no means to be despised. If a vessel containing water be placed over a steady fire, the water will grow con- tinually hotter till it reaches the limit of boiling, after which the regular accessions of heat are wholly spent in converting it into steam. The water remains at the same pitch of temperature, however fiercely it boils; the only difference is, that with a strong fire it sooner comes to a boil, ai d more quickly boils away and is converted into steam.— Buchanan’s “Economy of Fuel.’’ Boiling—Nothing but Boiling.—Our seamen and marines are now fed exclusively upon beef and pork—that is, they can have boiled salt beef, boiled fresh beef, and boiled salt pork, but all must be boiled in the ship’s coppers. From the date of a ship’s commission to her paying off there is nothing but “ boil.” . . . The meat is weighed out and cut up into junks under proper supervision, and handed over to the ship’s cook, who bundles it, according to old usage, into the ship’s coppers, with a small quantity of vegetables, and boils the whole until reduced to a kind of soup, that would be uneatable were it not for the vegetables in it. The meat is, at the same time, trans- formed into a pulpy, stringy substance, which is no longer nutritious. Fresh beef soup, with a few shreds of vegetables, is a capital thing in its way; but if people on shore were compelled to live on it, with nothing for a change but boiled salt beef or boiled dt pork, the cliances are that they would soon pray heartily for a change of diet.— The London Times.