212 COOKERY FOR THE DESTITUTE. of flour, 12 bunches of leeks, 6 bundles of celery, 12 pounds of salt, and 12 ounces of black pepper.—7 Tie Morning Post, 1840. “ The Art of Dining ” informs us that Soyer is more likely to earn his immortality by his soup kitchen than his soup ; he is one of the best authorities, therefore, for cheap soups. We extract a recipe from the “ Culinary Campaign,’' in which good soup for the poor may be made at three farthings per quart, as follows:—To 100 gallons of water add 12 pounds of solid meat, at 4d., or 16 pounds of meat with bones 3 pounds 2 ounces of dripping ... 12 pounds of onions, sliced 6 pounds of leeks 1 6 pounds of celery ... 8 pounds of turnips) 37 pounds and a half of flour (seconds) ... 25 pounds of pearl barley, soaked , 9 pounds of salt 1 pound 7 ounces of sugar £ 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 s. 4 1 0 3 7 6 0 0 d. 0 0 8 1 0 9 3 9 £13 6 Indian corn meal, oatmeal, and vegetables of every kind, simmered with a small quantity of meat or fish, make most nutritious food for the poor, aud the expense is trifling. Frugal cookery, based on the most economical principles, is of essential consequence to those who have little money to spend. The most nourishing meats are often the cheapest.* With a good manager, a shilling or two laid out in the coarser parts of beef and mutton, would be far more pro- fitable, and more nutritious, than buying butter and cheese. Meat goes furthest when made into soup and stews. A pound of meat even, boiled, or rather simmered, with oatmeal or rice, will make a nourishing meal for a whole family. Ox’s head and feet, sheep’s head and trotters, and cow’s heel, are most strengthening, and only require a little more care in the preparation. Give an Englishman a pound of meat: the chances are, that two to one, he rushes to the frying-pan, and frizzles all the goodness out of it. How different the Frenchman proceeds: he has recourse to the pot au feu, and, with the assistance of every kind of vegetable that he can lay his hands on, he will have ready, in a few hours, the most savoury of dishes, and the most digestible ; hence the common saying, “as many Frenchmen, as many cooks.” Why should there not be national schools of cookery, and prizes given to those who would economise and make meat go further than it does at present ? Let but. a hundredth part of the money that is now expended in powder and ball piractice be appropriated to this purpose, and the nation would be materially benefited. We have no wish to decry the Volunteer mania— far from it; but we do contend, that the poor generally would be better cared for by a movement that had cookery for its basis; for the meat now