HOME-MADE WINES AND CORDIALS. 133 cup of cold water, and add to the brandy after it has stood a month on the kernels. Strain, and bottle for use. Rum Shrub.—Put the juice of oranges, three pints, and a pound of white sugar to a gallon of rum. Let it remain in a cask for a few weeks, and it will be fit for use. Brandy and currant shrub may be made as above, as well as raspberry, peach, apricot, and other fruit brandies, and gooseberry, lemon, blackberry, currant, and ratafias, made from other fruit, for they are nothing more than the flavour of the fruits added to sugar syrups. Tasmanette.—In making jam—mulberry, Aldridge plum, morella, and quince—after the sugar has been added, skim off and strain the surplus syrup. Keep in a dry place till all are ready ; then add a tablespoon of vinegar to every pint. The above recipe was kindly furnished the author by Mr. Allport, of Aldridge Lodge. Tasmania, and the liqueur obtained a medal at the last International Exhibition in the mother country. Cyprus Wine (Imitation).—To ten quarts of syrup of elderberry add eighty pints of water, two ounces of ginger, and two ounces of cloves, and boil together ; add a few bruised grapes and strain.—Bibliotheque Physio- Economiqne. Grape Wine (Colonial).—To a gallon of water add a gallon of grapes (bruised), and let them stand a week without stirring. Draw it off fine, and to every gallon of wine add three pounds of loaf sugar. Then put it in a cask; do not bung it until the fermentation has ceased. Add a bottle of brandy to every ten gallons of wine; it will keep for two or three years. Bottle it on a clear day in July or August (Australian time). Try it previously; and if not fine, dissolve an ounce of isinglass and put in the cask, and let it remain for two or three weeks. You need not clear the fruit from the stems unless you choose; and if you desire the wine effervescent, the fruit should not be quite ripe. Fine moist sugar answers the purpose of white, but it heightens the colour, though rather less is required. If fruit is plentiful, use but little water; and of course fruit to make up the quantity of the liquid. The above recipe has been obligingly furnished by a barrister, a member of the Tasmanian bar, whose wine (home manufactured) has local repute and prestige for its flavour and goodness. Common Grape Wine.—Take any quantity of sound, ripe grapes; with a common cider press, press out the juice, put it into barrels, cover the bung lightly; after fermentation has ceased, cork it; place it in a cellar or house. In twelve months you will have a good wine, which improves by age. Let it stand on its lees.—Scientific American. Note.—The journal from which the above recipe was taken states that when the vino disease appeared, the common eatable mushroom entirely disappeared. In the districts of Ma<?on, Lyons, and the banks of the Rhone, which were great sufferers from the disease, this vegetable has again appeared. Recommendations.— 1. Grind your own wheat; make your own yeast and bread, or use Jones’s patent flour