242 AIGUILLETTES. Old fish, old oil, and an old friend. Raw pullet, veal, and fish make the churchyard fat. Of wine, the middle ; of oil, the top ; of honey, the bottom. if you take away the salt throw the meat to the dogs. Qui a bu boira. Ever drunk ever dry. Bitter to the mouth and sweet to the heart. .Rise from dinner with an appetite, and you will not be in danger of sitting down without one. Dr. Johnson’s three rules of frugality:— 1. A man’s voluntary expenses should never exceed his income. 2. Let no man anticipate uncertain profits. 3. Let no man squander against his inclination. From Mrs. Child's “ Frugal Housewife," and other Authors. The Millets.—The seterias, or close-seeded millets, yield Italian millet (S. Italica) Tl)is millet, called Baggy, in Madras, is considered by the natives of India one of the most delicious of cultivated grains. The Brahmins, indeed all classes of natives, par- ticularly esteem it, and use the seeds for cakes and porridge, &c. It is good for pastry —scarcely inferior, says Ainslie, to wheat, and when boiled with milk makes a pleasant light dish for invalids.—The Technologist. CV—AIGUILLETTES. To be able to carve well is a useful aud elegant accomplishment. It is an artless- recommendation to a man who is looking for a wife.—Hints for the Table. Aiguillettes is a term in the cuisine applied to small dishes, from the articles of which they consist being mounted on sjlver needles or skewers, with ornamented tops; something akin to the Turkish kebobs. In a French dinner, they form one of the hors d'oeuvres, or dishes handed around the table during the first course. Aiguillettes de Eis de Veau (Sweet-bread of Veal).—Take three throat sweet-breads, boil in water ten minutes, pour off the liquor, add one onion, one carrot, one turnip, two bay-leaves, and a pint of stock; simmer twenty minutes, cut them into round pieces a little larger than* a shilling, and season with salt and pepper; next, put them into a stew- pan with an ounce of butter, dress them white, then dip each piece with a fork into a mixture of white sauce, yolks of eggs, and the juice of a lemon. When cold, run the skewer through the pieces, putting several on each skewer; dip them into egg wrell beaten, then into bread crumbs, and fry in hot lard. Serve on a napkin. Aiguillettes aux huilres foysters), de filets de sole (soles), de langue de bceuf (ox-tongue), de volaille a la John Fille (fowl), are prepared in a similar way to the above, merely varying the sauces to be sent up according to the taste of the gourmet. Classical Eating.—The Romans, in the luxurious period of their empire, took five meals a day—a breakfast, jcntacultim; a dinner, which was a light meal without any formal preparation, prandium; a kind of tea, as we would call it, between dinner and supper, meranda; a supper, ctena, which was their great meal, and commonly consisted of two courses, the first of meats, the second what we call a dessert; and a posset, or something delicious after supper, cpmmissalio,—Adams’s “ Roman Antiquities."