261 DOMESTIC HINTS. If you are rich, be liberal in your expenses. Never write a letter in a passion. A woman who marries a gamester must never expect to have a good night’s rest. AVaste not, want not. Remember, in partaking of a luxurious meal, how many in the world there are who would be glad of the crumbs. A glutton eats as much to-day as if he expected to die to-morrow. Plant; you are only paying posterity what you have borrowed. Give no advice unasked. In the morning think what you are to do, and at night think what you have done. The wisest are ignorant. If you want to grow fat, keep your eyes open and your mouth shut. Live to-day as if you were to die to-morrow. Money got by industry is Heaven’s gift. Eating is the spur to industry; could we live without eating all the- world would be idle. Never leave what can be done to-day till to-morrow. Good manners are learned by keeping good company. Set your watch by a good clock every morning, and you will find a bad watch will go nearly as well as a good one. Good breeding requires punctual engagements; a fool thinks otherwise. No vice is more easily acquired than drunkenness. Marry in haste and repent at leisure. Mental inactivity is an evil more deplorable than inactivity of body. Sound sleep is of importance to health. A sooty chimney costs many beef-steaks. One candle well snuffed will give as much light as two with neglected wicks. The breath may blow out a candle, but an extinguisher will prevent a fire. Ventilate your bed-rooms night and day. See that nothing is thrown away that might nourish your own family, or a poorer one. Never let the anticipation of a coming pleasure cause you to waste present moments. Many lose half their lives by neglecting the present in regrets for the past, or vain anticipations for the future. Keep the doctor from your doors as long as you can; but, wheu -disease appears, don’t trifle with it. Disease is soon shaken by physic well taken. Eat slowly, and you will never over-eat. Keeping the feet warm will prevent the headache. Late at breakfast, hurried for dinner, cross at tea. Between husband and wife little attentions beget much love. Always lay your table neatly, whether you have company or not. Whatever you may choose to give away, always keep your temper.