HAMS, BACON, AND SALT MEAT. 105 approved of by the Oonseil d'Hygiene (or Board of Trade); and tlie price, it is believed, will not exceed thirty centimes per pound. If this be true, an immense sale of the article may be anticipated. Brighton Hunting Beef.—The beef is first put into spring water, and allowed to remain there a few hours. On being taken out and well drained, a few ounces of powdered saltpetre are well rubbed into the meat. This must be repeated two or three times. Some common salt is next rubbed in several times for the next twenty-four hours. Then a mixture of a quarter of a pound of allspice and two ounces of pepper is rubbed into the meat for another twenty-four hours. The beef must remain ten days in the pickle, turned every day. It is then baked in a pan for four hours, covered with crust, and round the bottom of the baking-pan. Salt Mutton (French Fashion).—If it be a leg, bone it, put it into a pan and pour over it a marinade made of oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, garlic, onion, thyme, a bay-leaf, and parsley. Let it marinade three days, and roast it. It may be stewed, and any part of mutton is good dressed in this mode. Kangaroo Ham (Prize Recipe).—Take a quarter of a pound of fine Liverpool salt, add three ounces of coarse brown sugar, and one ounce of pounded allspice; mix them well together, then rub the whole well on and down the leg bone ; let them lay in the pickle for a fortnight, rubbing them every other day. If not required for immediate use they may be hung up to dry; in this state they will keep good for years. When required for the table, chop off the bone close to the meaty part, cut slightly the sinew over the knee-joint, and bind it round; steep in cold water for twelve hours or more before using, then place it in a saucepan of cold water on a slow fire, and let it boil only ten minutes, drawing it aside until the water is nearly cool. When dished, pour over a rich brown gravy, flavoured with mace, salt, and pepper. Garnish with forcemeat balls, adding to the usual ingredients a little smoked bacon very finely chopped ; a slice of boiled pork or ham is an agreeable addition. The above recipe obtained a prize medal at the London Exhibition of 1862, and was kindly furnished the author by Mrs. Crouch, who was awarded the distinction. Can that which is unsavoury be eaten without salt ? or is there any taste in the -white of an egg ?—Job vi. b. The Best Way to Cook a Ham.—Put the ham in cold water to soak for twenty-four hours before boiling; scrape it well, then place in your copper, well covered with cold water, let it come to boil slowly, and after it has boiled for twenty minutes take all the fire from under tiie copper,* and let it remain until the water is cool, or until it is convenient to remove it out of the water. This will apply to any weight of ham. To Dress a Ham for Table.—When skinned, chop parsley (free from grit, but not wetted or washed) itnpalpably fine, scatter it over the ham. * If the ham is boiled in a pot, remove the same off the fire and let it stand to cool. N 2