217 AL FRESCO PARTIES, OR PIC-NICS. bottles, fill them with the juice until near the top. Pour into the bottles after a teaspoon of olive oil. Cork them, and place them upright in a cool place. Dry the peel, and string it for use. When you require to use the juice, open the bottle, and put in a skewer, with some cotton at the end, which will absorb the oil, and you will find the juice as goo 1 as when first.bottled. No family should be without plenty of lemon-juice. It is useful for so many purposes. It is a refrigerant, and antiscorbutic, and makes an excellent summer drink, not forgetting its use in the dif- ferent kinds of punch elsewhere detailed. In cure for scurvy it has no equal, and in acute rheumatism and gout, according to the united testimony of Owen, Rees, Babington, and numerous Continental prac- titioners, it has been taken with great success. It has no equal as flavouring for sauces, meats, and biscuits, and there is no pudding so wholesome or so easily made as a lemon one. The Stmposiacs.—These were table entertainments of the ancients, and were part of the education of the times, their discourses being' commonly the canvassing and solution of.some question, either philosophical or philological, always instructive, and usually pleasant; for the cups went round with the debate, and men were merry and wise together, according to the proverb. Plutarch, says that one Lamprias, a man eminent for his learning and a philosopher, disputed best, and unravelled the difficulties of philosophy with most success, when he was at supper and well warmed with wine.— Dryden. XCIV.-AL FRESCO PARTIES, OR PIC-NICS. There, on a slope of orchard, Francis laid A damask napkin, wrought with horse and hound. Brought out a dusky loaf, that smelt of home. And,- half cut down, a pasty, costly made, Where quail, and pigeon, lark and leveret, lay Like fossils of the rocks, with golden yolks Imbedded and injellied.—Tennyson. These kind of gatherings are favourites everywhere in the summer,, and it requires an adept at the organisation and providing of every requisite. Disraeli informs us, in “ Coningsby,” that, in the country, ’tis the coquette that provides amusement, and plans the pic-nic ; that she is the stirring element amid the heavy congeries of social atoms; the soul of. the house, the salt of the banquet. Amiable being ! This picture is, no doubt, a truthful sketch of every-day life. Cold roast and boiled corned meats, poultry, game, pies of every kind and variety, not forgetting a moving dessert. Bread, cakes, biscuits, fruits, and wines ; ginger-beer, soda-water, and bottled ale a discretion; salads, “sticker up” meats, roasted potatoes, and various condiments. Who would nob be a gipsy on such an occasion, if the company are agreeable, and especially one possessing, to the consideration of the masculine sex, “ The nameless charms unmask% by her alone; The light of love, the purity of grace ; The mind, the music breathing from her face ? ” PiC-HiCS.—The origin of pic-nics has been traced to Charles, Prince of Wales, aftor- wards Charles I., who, in the year 1618, gave such a party, and invited the marquises,, lords, knights, and squires to bring every man his dish of moat.—History.