22 MADE DISHES. To Stew a Knuckle of Veal.— Take a knuckle of veal— You may buy it, or steal; In a few pieces cut it, In a stewing-pan put it; Salt, pepper, and mace Must season this knuckle; Then what’s joined to a place,1 With other herbs muckle; That which kill’d King Will,2 And what never stands still ;3 Some sprigs4 of that bed Where children are bred. Which much you will mend, if Both spinach and endive, And lettuce and beet, With marigold meet. Put no water at all, For it maketh things small, Which, lest it shall happen, A close cover clap on. Put this pot of Wood’s metal5 In a boiling hot kettle; And there let it be, Mark the doctrine I teacty, About, let me see, Thrice as long as you preach.6 So skimming the fat off, Say grace with your hat off; Oh, then with what rapture Will it fill Dean and‘Chapter !—Gay. ’Salary. ’Sorrell. ’Thyme. “Parsley. “Metal saucepan of the day. “Pour hours. Veal Olives.—Cut them not too thick, and rub over them some egg yolk, strew on the bread-crumbs, mixed with chopped parsley, lemon-peel grated, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Lay on each piece a thin slice of bacon, roll them tightly, skewer them, rub the outside with egg rolled in bread- crumbs, and put them in a Dutch oven to do. Pour the following sauce into the dish:—Take a pint of good gravy, thicken it with flour, add ketchup, pickled mushrooms; boil this up a few minutes. Forcemeat balls may be added. An Italian Dinner.—The dinner was a specimen of simple Italian fare, and, as such, I shall record it for the benefit of the curious in such matters. It commenced with a tureen full of tagliarini; a paste composed of flour and eggs, rolled out exceedingly thin and cut into shreds—on the lightness and evenness of which the talent of the cook is displayed—boiled in broth and seasoned with Parmesan cheese. Slices of Bologna sausage, and fresh green figs—for which, the General informed us, the neighbourhood was famous—were next handed round ; and then appeared the lesso, a large piece of boiled beef, from which the broth had been made, with the accompaniment of tomata sauce. After this came a large dish of fried fish, and the arrosio—roast veal or roast