BISCUITS. 158 and eggs together, and stir in the flour to form a paste ; add about eight drops of essence of lemon; roll out into thin cakes, and bake in a moderately heated oven. Invalid Biscuits.—Melt three-quarters of a pound of butter in a pint cf new milk, and pour it on three-quarters of a pound of white sugar; when cool, put in half a dessert-spoonful of yeast, and a whole one of carraway seeds; add flour sufficient to make it into a stiff paste to roll thin ; prick and cut into shapes, and bake them. Norfolk Biscuits.—Three-quarters of a pound of butter, three pounds and a half of flour, and a quarter of a pint of yeast; melt the butter ■with water, knead it well, and bake on buttered paper—an ounce for each biscuit. Soda Biscuits are made from the finest flour and a small quantity of carbonate of soda. Sponge Biscuits.—Add the whites and yolks of eight eggs, well beaten, to a pound of finely-pounded sugar; then add a pound of fine flour, and the rind of two lemons grated. Put it into shapes; sift some white sugar over them, and bake in tin moulds for some time. Almond Biscuits.—Take four ounces of sweet and two ounces of bitter almonds ; blanch and beat them till smooth, then add one pound of loaf sugar, mix all together; beat the white of an egg to a froth and mix it with the rest; bake in lumps on wafer-paper, to prevent their sticking. A quick oven is necessary, and they should be done of a light brown. Biscuits ([to keep for use).—Biscuits to be kept for any length of time must be well and sufficiently baked, and preserved in tin, so as to exclude the air, or they may be preserved in bags that have been soaked in saltpetre and dried. Cracknels (American).—Mix with a quart of flour half a nutmeg, grated, the yolks of four eggs, beaten with two spoonfuls of rose-water; make into a stiff paste, with sufficient cold water; then roll in a pound of butter, and make them into cracknel shapes ; put them into a kettle of boiling water, and boil them until they can swim ; then take them out, and place them in cold water ; when hardened, lay them out to dry, and bake on tin plates. And take with thee ten loaves, and craclmcls, and a cruse of honey, and go to him: he shall tell thee what shall become of the child.—1 Kings xiv. 3. Biscuits (originally biskets) of various kinds were in use in the sixteenth and seven- teenth centuries, among which that most in repute was called Naples biscuit, from the place where it was first made. It occurs in the Carpenters’ Company’s books in 1614.— The New Metamorphosis. Note to the New Edition of “ Naves' Glossary." Ure’s “Dictionary ” (late edition by Hunt), informs us that there are no less than eighty fanciful names for biscuits, all expressive of articles in different forms, appearance, and taste, made of the same materials, with but little variation in the proportion in which they are used, the principal ingredients being flour and water, butter, milk, eggs, and carraway, nutmeg, cinnamon, or mace, or ginger, essence of lemon, neroli, or orange- flour water; called, in technical language, “flavourings.”