TASMABFIAN FISH. 222 junk baked, stuffed with veal-stuffing, or fried in cutlets, is not to- be despised. Flathead—3oz. to 41bs. Fine, white, and firm eating; the best fish we have for soup. Very plentiful; excellent fried. Bock Cod—3ozs. to lOlbs. The flesh is soft, but it should be cleaned and salted as soon as possible after it is caught, and left in the salt for twelve hours before cooking. The larger boiled and the smaller fried are good eating, their flavour being very delicate. Skate—lib. to 401bs. The flaps only are used; those of about two to ten pounds are preferable. The flesh is good, but it is not a favourite with many. . Hapuka, or Arboukir—lOlbs. to 1041bs. Belongs to the New Zealand coast, but is frequently caught here. The flesh is coarse, and we never heard any one speak in its favour. The poorer classes do not take to it, a sure sign that much cannot be said for it. Carp — 41bg. to lOlbs. A beautiful fish, of a dingy red colour; the scales iridescent. Excellent eating. Seldom in market. Flounder—2ozs. to Jib. Plentiful, and as fine as the English sole. Some are as large as a dinner-plate, but they usually run about the size of a small cheese-plate and under. On the northern side this fish is watery and muddy in flavour ; but in Hobart Town it is in great estimation, and deservedly so. King Fish—41bs. to lSlbs.7 Both jack-shaped. Very plentiful at cer- Barracouta— 31bs. to lOlbs. j tain seasons. Much in demand with the poorer classes, as a fine fish is sold for sixpence, weighing five or six pounds. They are often salted and smoked, and excellent eating, however cooked. Gar, or Guard Fish—a few ounces. Called in England the piper. It is from a foot to eighteen inches long, and as narrow as a sand-eel; of a light brownish grey, and nearly transparent. Excellent eating. Shellfish:— Crayfish (yulgo, Crawfish)—11b. to 7lbs. Very fine. Sold in immense quantities, and a favourite from high to low; is in season about eight months of the year. Crown crabs—lib. to 81b. Not often in market, but very fine. Oysters—all sizes. The smaller and choicest at present come from the east coast, the larger from Southport, but above Hobart Town beds are now forming. Volumes have been already written respecting this fish; suffice it to say ours are very good and plentiful. Scallops, similar to those caught in England, plentiful on the sandy beaches, but rarely brought to market. Mussels, very fine and large. As they are to be gathered by every one they are not brought to market. Occasionally poisonous, we suspect, when gathered off piles in the harbour, or far beyond low- water mark, as the sun in hot weather half cooks them when exposed high up on the beach.