254 HEBREW REFECTION. them, continue to cut them up as if in ribbons, of equal width; then- throw the shavings into a frying-pan, and fry of a light brown; they must be constantly moved with a silver fork to keep the pieces separate; They should be laid on a glass to drain, and placed in the dish lightly. Peas Stewed with Oil.—Put half a pint of peas into a stewpan, half a lettuce chopped small, a little mint, a small onion, cut up, two table- spoonfuls of oil, and a dessert-spoonful of powdered sugar, with water sufficient to cover the peas, watching from time to time that they do not become too dry; let them stew gently, taking care that they do not burn, till they are perfectly soft. When done they should look of a yellowish brown. French beans, broccoli, and greens, stewed in the above manner, will be found excellent. Stewed Giblets.—Scald one or more sets of giblets ; set them on the fire with a little veal or chicken, or both, in a good gravy; season to taste, thicken the gravy, and colour it with browning, flavour with mushroom powder and lemon-juice, and one glass of white wine; force- meat balls should be added a few moments before serving, and garnish with thin slices of hard-boiled eggs. To stew Spanish Beans and Peas.—Soak the beans over night in cold water; they must be stewed in only sufficient water to cover them,, with two table-spoonfuls of oil, a little pepper and salt, and white sugar. When done they should be perfectly soft and tender. Chorissa Omelette.—Add to the eggs, after they are well beaten, half a tea-cupful of finely-minced chorissa; this omelette must be lightly fried on both sides, or the salamander held over long enough to dress the chorissa. Melena Pie.—Mince finely cold veal or chicken, with smoked beef or tongue; season well, add lemon-juice, and a little nutmeg; let it simmer in a small quantity of good beef or veal gravy; while on the fire, stir in the yolks of four eggs, put it in a dish to cool, and cover it with a rich pastry and bake it. Bola rT Am or.—The recipe for this much celebrated and exquisite confection is simpler than may be supposed from its elaborate appearance; it requires chiefly care, precision, and attention. Clarify two pounds of white sugar; to ascertain when it is of proper consistency, drop a spoon- ful in cold water, form it into a ball, and try if it sounds when struck against a glass ; when it is thus tested, take the yolks of twenty eggs, mix them up gently, and pass them through a sieve ; then have ready a funnel, the hole of which must be about the size of a vermicelli; hold the funnel over the sugar while it is boiling over a charcoal fire, pour the egg through, stirring the sugar all the time, and taking care to hold the funnel at such a distance from the sugar as to admit of the egg dripping into it. When the egg has been a few minutes in the sugar, it will be hard enough to take out with a silver fork, and must then be placed on a