FORCEMEAT AND STUFFING. 101 bread crumbs, grated fine, and yolk of egg sufficient to work it light; roll it into balls. If for roast meat, put them in the dripping-pan to brown ; for white sauce, boil them ; for brown sauce, fry them. Forcemeat Balls for Fish, Soups, &c.—Beat the flesh and soft parts of a medium-sized lobster or crayfish, half an anchovy, a large piece of boiled celeryvthe yolk of an egg, hard-boiled, a little cayenne, mace, salt, and pepper, with two table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, two ounces of butter, and two eggs, well beaten up; make into balls, and fry of a fight brown. Stuffing-balls for Hashes.—Three-quarters of a pound of bread crumbs, half a pound of beef suet, finely chopped; add a little lemon, thyme, parsley, marjoram, and savory, also chopped, nutmeg, mace, pepper, and cayenne; mix with two well-beaten eggs, and divide into small balls, and fry them dry. They will keep good several days. Stuffing for Veal, Turkey, Fowl, &c.—Mix a quarter of a pound of beef stuffing in marrow, the same weight of bread crumbs, two drachms of parsley, an onion, sweet marjoram, grated nutmeg, pepper and salt; pound them with the yolks and whites of two eggs. They can be made into balls or sausages, and floured when so required. They may be fried or boiled. Veal Forcemeat.—Four ounces of lean veal, two ounces of bread crumbs, two ounces of suet, and some parsley and sweet herbs, an onion, and spice. Pound in a mortar, break into it the yolk of an egg, mix all together, and season with pepper and salt. A little ham, bacon, or salt tongue would make it more savoury. Goose and Duck Stuffing.—Chop fine two ounces of onion, an ounce of green sage, four ounces of bread crumbs, the yolk and white of an egg, and a little minced apple and cayenne. Stuffing for Hare or Kangaroo.—Two ounces of beef suet, chopped fine, three ounces of bread crumbs, some parsley, shalot, marjoram, thyme, nutmeg, pepper, salt, a little cayenne; mix these ingredients thick with the yolk and white of an egg. Forcemeat Balls for Turtle or Made Dishes.—Pound some beef or veal, and a third of itr weight in butter ; put into a stewpan the same weight of bread crumbs, moistened with milk; add chopped parsley and sha- lot, rub them in a mortar until they forma smooth paste, put it through a • sieve, and, when cold, pound and mix all together, with the yolks of three eggs, boiled hard; season with salt, pepper, and curry-powder, add the yolks of two eggs, rub together and make small balls. Put into the soup a few minutes before it is served. Egg Balls. Four eggs, boiled till hard. When they are cold put the yolks into a mortar, with a small quantity of salad oil, a tea-spoon of ! flour, some chopped parsley, a little salt and cayenne. Rub them well together, roll into small balls, and boil two or three minutes.