271 DRINKS. •three quarts of the water for half an hour, then add the sugar, lemon- juice, and honey, with the remainder of the water, and strain through a cloth or strainer. When cold add the white of an egg, and a small quantity of essence of lemon—a dozen drops. Let the whole stand four days, and then bottle.—Dr. Pereira on Diet. This is an excellent recipe for beer for family use. It is not so violent in its action when opened as fermented beer, but it is very pleasant, mellow, and good flavoured, and will keep for months. Ginger-beer (tire's Dictionary).—Barbadoes ginger, twelve ounces; tartaric acid, three ounces; white sugar, eight pounds; gum arabic, eight ounces; essence of lemon, two drachms; water, nine gallons. The ginger-root, bruised, to be boiled for an hour; then, the liquor being strained, the tartaric acid and sugar added, boiled, and the same renewed. The gum arabic, dissolved in a separate portion of water, added with the essence of lemons. When the whole has cooled to about 130* Fahr. some fresh yeast is to be added, and the beer carefully fer- mented. Then bottle for use. Orangeade.—Squeeze the juice of an orange, pour boiling water on some of the peel, and cover it close. Boil water and sugar to a thin syrup and shim it. When all are cold, mix the juice, the infusion, and the syrup with as much water as will make a rich drink. Strain through a jelly-bag, and ice. Pineapple Eum: sliced pineapples, put into rum, and hence the name. The rum should be of a brown transparent colour, smooth, oily taste, strong body and consistence, and good age. Jamaica is the very best spirit of this kind. Girambing (a French drink).—Boil four ounces and a half of powdered ginger in fourteen quarts of water, wine measure. Then beat up the whites of four eggs to a froth, and mix them together, with nine pounds of white sugar ; add to the preceding water and ginger. Then take nine lemons, and add the juice and the rind. Put the whole in a barrel, with a little yeast. In a few days bottle it off, and it will be soon fit for drinking. It improves by keeping. Sorbet.—The sweet-scented violet is one of the plants most esteemed in the East, particularly for its great use in sorbet, which they make of violet sugar.—Uasselquist. Dog s Nose.—Warm half a pint of ale, and add a wine-glassful of gin to it; then add half a pint of cold ale, and serve with toast. “ Welcome, thrice welcome, thou man of Galway,” cried out Power, as he pointed to a seat, and pu hed a wineglass towards me. “ Just in time to pronounce on a new brewery: taste that; a little mere of the lemon you would say, perhaps? Well, I agree with you. Rum and brandy, Glenlevit and guava jelly, limes, green tea, and a slight suspicion of preserved ginger—nothing else, upon honour, and the most simple mixture for the cure, the radical cure, of the blue devils, and debt, I know of; eh, doctor? You advise it yourself to be taken before bedtime; nothing inflammatory in it nothing pugnacious ; a mere circulation of the better juices and more genial spirits of the marly -clay, without arousing any of the baser passions : whisky is the devil for that.”