WINES. 175 alcohol than any other wine. This vine was noticed by Major Adlum, who found it growing near Washington in 1826, and the grape is of a peculiar musty taste. It has been immortalised by Longfellow :— “ For richest and best Is wine of the West, That grows by the beautiful river, Whose sweet perfume Fills all the room With a benison on the giver.” Ure tells us, that two millions of gallons of wine are made in the (dis) United States, from 7,000 acres of vines, of the value of three millions of dollars. The wines of Australia Proper obtained a high meed of praise at the French Exposition, the Camden wines being much prized, and no one can deny that our Gallic friends are the best judges. The South Australian wines are the Shiraz, the Yerdeilho, the Pineau, the Muscat, the Reisling, and the Montura. The South Australian grapes are the largest in size of any of the Australian ; but the finest fruit do not ferment the best wines. The wines made in New South Wales (Australia) are free from acidity, fruity in flavour, devoid of spirit, and mellow on the palate. Although no poet has spoken their praise, they will soon force themselves on public notice. We have used M‘Arthur’s Camden, Blake’s Kaludah, and Lindeman’s Cawarra, and cannot decide which is the superior ; but it is only justice to the latte’ to say, that the manufacturer was awarded a first-class medal at the last International Exhibition. No less than sixty different samples of colonial wines from the elder colony were shown at the Exhibition, of whom the M‘Arthurs produced twenty-five sorts. One of the family received the honour of knighthood after the French Exhibition, and if it wa3 given on account of the wines produced, the higher title should have been bestowed, for the Australias owe the immense wool export of this day entirely to this respected family. We hope that it will not be considered a digression, when we ask—Who is so justly entitled to the consideration of the Sove- reign, and the honours that flow from Her Majesty in the dispensation of the royal prerogative, as those, who, by any means, contribute largely to the exports and imports of the empire; to the employment of the people in the arts, manufactures, and commerce, and thus directly add to the wealth, the renown, a^d the greatness of the mother country? There is a curious custom-house anomaly at present in operation. One of the Austra- lias cannot use the wine of the adjoining colony without paying a similar duty to that exacted from wines of foreign growth. The interchange of arcicles grown in each colony should be free and unfettered.* Hen- * Ancient Wines.—The wines of Lesbos and Chios among the Greeks, and the Falemian and Acuban among the Romans, have acquired an immortality of renown. Great uncertainty, however, prevails as to the nature of these wines. Dr. Henderson thinks that the most celebrated of them all, the Falemian, approached, in its most essential characters, near to Madeira. In preparing these wines, the ancients often inspissated them till they became of the consistence of honey, or oven thicker. These were diluted with water previously to their being drunk; and, indeed, the habit of mixing wine with water seems to have prevailed much more in antiquity than in modem times.—M'CuUoch'a “ Com, Dir”