CONFECTIONERY. 106 napkin into a mould for the table. It can be coloured or flavoured any way, as long as no ingredient is used that does not curdle the milk. Arrowroot Blanc-mange.—To a quart of new milk add a quarter of a pound of arrowroot, sweetened to taste; add a little cinnamon water or lemon for flavour; stir it well on the fire, and boil for about fifteen minutes ; pour it into a mould to cool. When served add milk, cream, jam, or a custard over it. Rice used instead of arrowroot, boiled until soft, and served with jelly or jam, is equally good. Trifle.—We disapprove of brandy in trifles, and advise sherry wine. Put in the trifle-dish four sponge biscuits and a quarter of a pound, of macaroons and ratafias ; cover the dish with these, and soak into them a quarter of a pint of sherry; when soaked sufficiently pour in a pint of custard, then a layer of raspberry jam, and cover with whipped cream well frothed. Apple Trifle is made up in a similar manner, by a pulp of apples being placed at the bottom of the trifle-dish, flavoured with sugar and lemon. Mix half a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and the yolk of an egg 5 giye ^ a scald over the fire, with a little sugar in it; let it cpol, then cover the apples with it, and put a whip on the top. Calves’ Feet Jelly.—Take four calves’ feet, and slit them in two, and wash them in lukewarm water. Put them into simmer for six hours in sufficient water to cover them ; and when reduced to half the quantity, after skimming it, strain it through a sieve, and skim off all the oily part on the top of the liquor. Put the liquor in a stewpan to melt, with a pound of lump sugar, the peel of two lemons, the juice of six, six whites of eggs, and shells beat well together, and a bottle of sherry ; whisk the whole together until it simmers for half an hour; and strain through a jelly-bag. If the weather is -warm, it will require icing or cooling. Sheep’s trotters make very delicate jelly, but not so firm as the calves’ feet. They require a little isinglass to set them firm. Meringues.—Take the whites of eight eggs, and whisk them up to a strong froth; then stir in half a pound of white sugar, as lightly as possible. Flavour them with any essence you please ; lay them on white paper the shape of half an egg; sift fine preserved sugar on them, and blow off all that does not stick. Bake them on a board on a slow oven ; when of a pale brown, they are done. Take them off the paper, and beat in the under part with a spoon, to form a hollow, and dry them; fill them with cream, or any preserved fruit, and stick two together, which will form an egg shape. Apple Jelly.—Put a pound and a half of apples, after beiug pared and cored, in a quart of water; boil them till the apples are in pulp, and put them into a hair sieve to drain. To every pint of juice add half an ounce of isinglass, the juice and peel of a lemon, sugar to taste ; boil ten minutes. Pass it through a flannel bag into a mould.