146 PRESIDENCY AT DINNER. observes, the syrup of punch, which should have a strong proportion of alcohol. We give the recipe for the most fashionable of all syrups. Syrup d’Absintlie (Wormwood).—Putin a basin two ounces of the tops of wormwood, and pour over it four quarts of boiling water; let it steep four hours on a hot hearth; then strain the decoction through linen; beat the white of an egg, melt two pounds of sugar, and simmer until done. Bottle for use. The poculum absinthiatum was regarded in remote ages as a wholesome beverage, and the wormwood was, moreover, supposed to act as an antidote against intoxication. Syrup of cherries, strawberries, mulberries, raspberries, apples, vinegar, gum arabic, oapillaire, sweet almonds, currants, marsh-mallow roots, and punch, are made in a similar manner. To Preserve Gooseberries Whole (Another Recipe).—The gooseber- ries must be full grown, but not ripe. Top and tail them, and put the- fruit into wide-mouthed bottles ; gently cork them with new corks ; put them into a pan of boiling Avater—a French Lain marie is the thing—and let them remain in the water until they have shrunk to a fourth ; then beat the corks in tight, and resin the tops ; set the bottles in a dry place, and they will keep for winter use for pies and puddings. Jams and Jellies.—Jelly and jam can be prepared from the tender leaf-stalks of the red rhubarb, their flavour being equal to currant jelly. Blackberry jelly is good in tarts. Baked pears, of lino colour, make an excellent dish for the dessert; and barberries are good preserved. The white bul lace is good preserved in sugar ; the magnum bonum plum is flavourless for eating, and only fit for preserves. The Victoria plum is one of the best in England, by repute, for eating and preserving, and is likely to preserve its good quali- ties for years to come. The British-made fruit, jams, and jellies, lose their tine flavour in crossing the Line to the Colonies, and become hard and tasteless. The Tasmania jams have acquired a repute in the Colonies for their goodness and fine aroma, and the de- mand for them is very great. LV.-PRESIDENCY AT DINNER. “ It is not difficult to foresee that this department (cookery) of philosophy must become the most popular of all others, because every department of human beings is interested in its success. If science can really contribute to the happiness of mankind it must be in this department. The real comfort of the majority of men in this country is sought for at their own firesides; how desirable, then, it becomes to give every inducement to be at home, by directing all the means of philosophy to increase domestic happiness.”—Sylvester, on “Domestic Economy." 1st. Always burry the bottle round for live or six rounds, without prosing yourself or permitting others to prose. A slight fillip of wine inclines people to be pleased, and removes the nervousness which prevents men from speaking; disposes them, in short, to be amusing and to be amused. 2nd. “ Push on, keep moving,” as young Rapid says. Do not think of saying fine things—nobody cares for them any more than for fine music, which is often too liberally bestoived on such occasions. Speak at all ventures, and attempt the mot pour rire. You will find people satisfied with wonderfully indifferent jokes, if you can hit the taste of