202 DIGESTION. well understood in those days as now, thougli the fashion might be some- what different. The nobility had French cooks, and among the dishes enumerated we find not only beef, mutton, veal, lamb, kid, pork, rabbit, capon, pig, but also red or fallow-deer, and a great variety of fish and wild fowl, with pastry and creams, Italian confections and preserved fruits, and sweetmeats from Portugal; nay, we are told even of cherries served at twenty shillings per pound. The variety of wines can hardly be exceeded at present; for a writer of Elizabeth’s time mentions fifty- six different kinds of French wine, and thirty-six Spanish and Italian wine, imported in England.—Airs. Jameson. Ehench Cooks.—The best Prench coolts are from Picardy, then Planders, Burgundy, Courtois, Lorraine, th* Parisian last but one, and the Norman last of all.— Mercier’s Tableau do Paris. LXXXIDIG E ST ION. God sends us meat; who sends cooks the proverb has saved us the trouble of guessing.—Almanack dcs Gourmands. The following articles are digested in the times indicated:— Rice (boiled) Apples (ripe) Sago (boiled) Bread, cabbage with vinegar (raw), boiled milk and bread, milk (cold)... Potatoes (roasted), and parsnips (boiled) Baked custard ... Apple dumpling Bread, corn (Baked), and carrots (boiled) ... Potatoes and turnips (boiled), butter and cheese Tripe and pigs’feet Venison ... Oysters (undressed), and raw eggs Turkey and goose Eggs (boiled soft), beef or mutton (roasted or boiled) Boiled pork, stewed oysters, eggs (bard boiled or fried) Domestic fowls ... Wild fowls, pork (salted and boiled), suet ... Veal, roasted pork, and salt beef —Beaumont. Eating.—The propriety of eating slowly ought always to be remembered. The great Napoleon was a, fast eater ; from the moment he and his gnests sat down to the time the coffee was served was not more than forty minutes. The habit of eating fast, writes the Quartci-ly, is supposed to have paralysed him on two of the most critical occasions of his life, the battles of Borodino and Leipsic, which he might have converted into decisive and influential victories by pushing his advantages as he was wont. On each ot tnese occasions he was known to have been suffering from indigestion. On the thmaaaj aa Dresden, too, the German novelist, Hoffman, who was present m the town, as»e^s cuau the Emperor would have done much more than he did but for the effects of a shouiucr oi mutton stuffed with onions! The poet describes a hurried meal in the following terms. lis. mts. 1 0 1 30 1_ 45 2 0 2 30 2 45 3 0 r» O 15 3 30 1 0 1 35 2 3 2 30 3 0 3 30 * 4 0 4 3 5 30