'96 FISH. kettle on the side of the fire to simmer for about fifteen minutes; sup- posing the fish to be about eight pounds, if the water gallops, the fish will break to pieces; rub some of the red spawn of the lobster through a sieve, and sprinkle over. Garnish with parsley, lemon, and horseradish; or it may be served with fried smelts. Lobster or crayfish sauce is an accompaniment. Ude says that a turbot kept a few days eats far better than a fresh one. It may be so; but, according to medical authority, it is not so wholesome: of that fact there can he no doubt. Careme tells us, in a voice of authority, that boiled turbot ought to be garnished with a boiled lobster, and this lobster in its turn is to be garnished with smelts, fastened with silver skewers. Braude writes, that turbot is the best, and, excepting the halibut, largest of our flat fishes ; it is the type of the sub-genus rhombus of Cuvier. It is taken either by the troll-net, or, in deep water, by the many-hooked line baited with the common smelt or small gar-fish. A preference is given in the London markets to the turbots caught by the Dutch, who are estimated to have drawn for this supply not less than £80,000 a year. Boiled God,—Wash and clean the fish, and rub some salt on the inside. Put the fish in the kettle, so that it may be covered ; put in a handful of salt, and then put in the fish. A small fish will be done in about fifteen minutes, and a larger one will take longer time. Garnish the dish with the roe and liver. The carver’s reputation depends upon the equitable distribution of the sound, the jelly part of the jowl, and the tongue, which are esteemed highly, by pisciverous ■eaters. To Remove the Muddy Taste from Fish (German).— As this flavour exists only on the skin of the fish, and becomes communicated to the body only on being first boiled, it will be sufficient, before dressing such as are taken from ponds or stagnant water, to put them alive into a tub, and pour fresh water over them, adding half a handful of salt, stirring it well up among the fish, and finally rinsing them with cold fresh water.—Scheiblcr. To Pry risk.— The King’s Bench reports have cook’d up an odd dish— An action for damages, Fry versus Fisli; But sure, if for damages action would lie, It certainly must have been Fish versus Fry!—The Morning Chronicle. Fish may be fried either with or without bread crumbs. Wash the fish thoroughly, and dry them well. Prepare some bread crumbs, by rubbing stale bread through a colander; or oatmeal may be used instead. Beat an egg up, and use it on the fish on both sides. Put clarified fat or salad oil into the pan, and then put in the fish, which must literally boil in the fat. When done, take them off and dry them; serve with a napkin laid on the dish, or without a napkin. Fish Gravies.—Gravies for fish are seldom thought of; and yet in many instances they are a great improvement, and really a valuable acquisition, particularly to those who dislike the oleaginous batter. The heads, bones, and other parts of the fish, which would otherwise be thrown away, or a cheap kind of fish, with the aid of a little butter or dripping, an onion or two, and a portion of herbs, with the addition of a glass of -wine, ketchup, lemon, and cayenne, will make a perfect gravy, far superior to the eternal melted butter. Acids are most wholesome with any land of fish. To Stew Pisli.—When the fish have been well washed, lay them in a stewpan, with half a pint of claret or port wine, and a quart of stock or gravy, a large onion sliced, and a few cloves and a little mace ; cover the