. *52 CAKES. Eice Cake.—Half a pound of ground rice, half a pound of white sugar, and four eggs. Beat the eggs separately, and then the whole ingredients together for some time, and bake in a mould. Jenny Lind Oake.—One pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, and a little spice, to be mixed with two tea-spoonfuls of soda in three-quarters of a pint of fresh- churned buttermilk; candied peel to taste, and bake. Easter Oake.—Two pounds of flour, one pound of butter melted, half a pound of currants, one pound of moist sugar, four yolks of eggs, a table-spoonful of brandy ; add a little cinnamon. Chantilly Trifle Oake.—Take a savoury cake of the size required. Cut off the top, and scoop out the inside to about three-quarters of an inch from the edge, having about the same thickness at the bottom. Put it on the dish on which it is to be served, and pour about half a pint of sherry wine over the sides and bottom of the cake; as it soaks in, pour it over until it has absorbed. Just before serving fill the cake with whipped cream, flavoured with vanilla or lemon, or a little brandy and wine. The edge of the cake may be garnished with preserved fruits or blanched sweet almonds, cut in thin slices lengthways, and stuck round. Custard may be substituted for the cream in filling the cake. Ginger, Currant, and Cinnamon Cake.—Rub six ounces of butter into four pounds of flour; make a paste, and add one pound of sugar, an ounce and a half of volatile salts, four eggs well beaten, and as much butter as wdll make into dough ; divide it into three equal parts, add to one half an ounce of ground ginger, to another two ounces of currants, and to the third half an ounce of ground cinnamon. Bake on buttered tins, and sprinkle the top with sugar. Handsome Tipsy Cake.—Provide some sponge cakes, place four close upon the dish upon which the cake is to be served, spread over them a thick layer of jam ; upon this place three sponge cakes close together, spread over a thick layer of jam, and complete the pyramid with one. Pour over the whole three glasses of sherry, so that the cakes may absorb all the wine ; when this is done, add two glasses of brandy slowly, so that in absorbing the spirits, the cakes do not become too moist and break. Make a rich custard and pour over the whole. Eock Cakes.—Half a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, one pound of flour, three eggs, and half a pound of currants. Beat the butter to a cream, then beat up the eggs thoroughly, and mix in with the butter and sugar, after which stir in the flour very gradually, and lastly the currants. Keep a little of the white of egg out to froth the top with. Drop the buttons on buttered paper, and bake quickly. Gateaux d’Epice.—The following are the ingredients :—Treacle, a pint; butter, half a pound ; powdered ginger, an ounce; powdered cin- namon, an ounce; allspice, a quarter of an ounce; candied lemon-peel, t