258 HEBREW REFECTION. cinnamon. When hah eel and while hot, make holes through the siesta with a small silver skewer, taking care not to break it, and pour over clarified sugar until it is perfectly soaked through. Butter Cakes.—Take equal quantities of butter and sugar, say half a pound of each, grAe the rind of a lemon, add a little cinnamon, and as much flour as will form it into a paste, with spice and eggs ; roll it out, cut it into small cakes, and bake. A piece of candied orange or lemon peel may be put on the top of each cake. A Juditha.—Put some gooseberries into a saucepan with a little water; when they are soft, pulp them through a sieve, and add several well-beaten yolks of eggs, and sweeten with white sugar ; have ready a shape of biscuit ice, or any other cream ice that may be preferred ; take off a thick slice of the ice from the top carefully, and without breaking, so that it may be replaced on the ice. Scoop out a 1 >rge portion of the ice, which may be mixed with the gooseberry cream, and fill up the hollow with it. Cover the shape with the piece that was removed, and serve. This is an elegant dish. The ice should be prepared in a sound mould. Brown bread ice is particularly well adapted to a Juditha. A Plain Bola.—Take three-quarters of a pound of white sugar, three- quarters of a pound of fresh butter, two eggs, one pound and a half of hour, three spoonfuls of yeast, a little milk, and two ounces of citron, cut thin, and mix into a light paste ; bake in a tin, and strew powdered sugar and cinnamon over it before baking. The above ingredients are often baked in small tins or cups. Oil Twist.—Take half a quartern of dough, one gill of the best Florence oil, half a pound of currants, the same of moist sugar, and a little cinnamon ; mix all well together, make it up in the form of a twist, and bake it. “ And if thy oblation be a meat offering baken in the frying-pan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil."—Lev. ii. 7. Matso Oakes.—Make a stiff paste with biscuit-powder and milk and wrater ; add a little butter, the yolk of an egg, and a little white sugar ; cut into pieces, and mould with the hand, and bake in a brisk oven. These cakes should not be too thin. Fried Matsos.—Soak some of the thickest matsos in milk, taking care they do not break, then fry in boiling fresh butter. This is a very nice method of preparing them for breakfast or tea. An Excellent Eecipe for a Fruit Charlotte.—Line a jelly-mould with fine picked strawberiies, which must be first dipped into some liquid jelly, to make them adhere closely; then fill the mould with some straw- berry cream, as follows :—Take a pottle of strawberries, mix them with half a pound of white sugar ; rub this through a sieve, and add to it a pint of whipped cream and one ounce and a half of dissolved isinglass; pour it into the mould, which must be immeried in ice until ready to