XII.—CONDIMENTS : Substances taken with the food, to season or improve its flavour, or to render it more wholesome or digestible. The principal condiments are common salt, vinegar, lemon-.iuice, spices, aromatic herbs, oil, butter, sugar, honey, and sauces. Most of these, in moderation, promote the appetite and digestion, but their excessive use tends to vitiate the gastric juice and injure the stomach.—Cooley. Cayenne.—This is the pounded seed of the capsicum. It is a tropical plant, and is grown in the East and West Indies, and America. That produced and grown at Norfolk Island cannot be exceeded for flavour and strength. Cinnamon : the under bark of a species of bay tree, which is exten- sively grown on the Malabar Coast. It possesses a fine aromatic- flavour. Cassia.—The bark of cassia is produced from a similar tree to cinna- mon, but it is not so full flavoured. Allspice, the production of a tropical plant, much used in cookery. Ginger is grown in the East and West Indies. It is a fine stomachic, and useful in many ways. Cloves.—These are the buds of an Indian tree, not arrived at maturity, and they afford a beautiful flavour when used for any purpose. Nutmeg is the fruit of a tree, grown more numerously in the Molucca Islands, and is used very extensively in cookery. IT is highly aromatic. Elecampane has always been esteemed in the domestic herbal, as its- leaves are aromatic and bitter. The root is used to flavour confectionery cakes, which bear its name. It is a tonic. Mace: the slight shell that covers the nutmeg. It is used in a similar way. Mustard can be cultivated anywhere. It is of a pungent nature. Its preparation is with cold water; if hot water is used, it destroys its pungency. Durham mustard has a proverbial reputation. The moderate use of this condiment is considered wholesome. The French add vinegar, and other additions to it, and dispose of it in bottles in a liquid state, and not dry, as we do. Falstaff teUs Poins, in the “ Second Part of Henry the Fourth,” that “ his wit is as thick as Tewkesbury mustard,” the town of that name being a great place for this con- diment in the days of Shakespeare. Mustard.—Why buy this, when you can grow it in your garden P The stuff you buy is half drags, and is injurious to health. Your mustard would look brown instead of yellow; but the former colour is as good as the latter; and as to the taste, the real mustard has certainly a much better than that of the drugs and flour which go- under the name of mustard.—Cobbett.