134 TABLE CLOTHS AND NAPKINS. 2. Make your own port, especially if you can procure Lord Pembroke’s recine or purchase from a respectable firm. ’ 3. Avoid green pickles; i.e., pickles artificially coloured. 4. Avoid bright-coloured peppers, spices, sauces, anchovies, and herrings. 5. Purchase spirits and beer of large dealers and brewers. 6. Avoid coloured confections, especially those green, blue, or red. 7. Weigh and measure your purchases when brought home. You will be then sure of full weight if the articles are good, and be more able to detect the bad. XLVIII-TABLE-CLOTHS AND NAPKINS. The comfort of napkins at dinner is too obvious to require comment, while the expense can hardly be urged as an objection. If there be not any napkins, a man has no alternative but to use the table-cloth, unless (as many do) he prefer his pocket-handker- chief—a usage sufficiently disagreeable.—Hints on Etiquette. The napkins used at dinner, breakfast, and at all meals, are not only essentially necessary, seeing beards are so fashionable,* but they add materially to the appearance of the table. Napkins are usually of linen damask, 28 in. by 30 in. The fold is a matter of taste. The French mode is to place them in the shape of a fan, while the English custom is to form them as a shoe, placing the bread inside, the most desirable way. “ The Practical Housewife” describes the manner of folding the Mitre, the Exquisite, the Collegian, the Cinderella, the Flirt, the Neapolitan, and the Favourite, with descriptive wood-cuts of these different forms. Table- cloths are formed of the same materials as napkins, and many families use slips, which are removed with the dinner. Good light, moderate temperature, snow-white linen, clean plate, and beautiful glass are necessary appendages to the dinner table. Fish and potatoes served up in napkins, will be always comme il faut, as well as patties, vols-au-vent, and savoury pies. With hot dishes of these kinds, the napkins must be warmed in cold weather. Substitute for Cream in Tea cr Coffee.—Beat the white of an egg to a froth, put to it a small piece of butter, and mix well. Then turn the tea or coffee to it gradually, so that it may not curdle. If carefully done, this is an excellent substitute for cream, *> and it softens the tea or coffee nearly equal to milk. * Apropos of leards, Beatrice, in “ Much Ado about Nothing,” says:—“ He that hath a heard is more than a youth, and he that hath no beard is less than a man; and he that is more than a youth is not for me; and he that is less than a man, I am not for him.” Who would not wear a beard ? Those who have the sense and courage to wear the natural comforter, which gives warmth without pressure—the beard—improve then- cliances for a sound throat, a clear head, and a long life.—Harriet Hartincau on Dress, in “ Once a Wccl;.”