LIII.-HCE. In the warmer climates of Europe an ice-house, or an ice-safe (refrigerator) is a necessary appendage to every respectable dwelling, not merely for the purpose of pleasing the palate with iced beverages, but to enable the residents to preserve their provisions (fish, meat, game, milk, butter, &c.) in a wholesome state from day to day.— Cooley’s “ Practical Receipts.” The greatest luxury in hot weather is ice, and where that cannot be obtained recourse must be had to Simpson’s portable freezing vases, which are sold at a moderate price at the manufactory; and it is surprising that they are not more used in the colonies. The vase is most simple of its kind, and the freezing mixture, warranted to keep in any climate, is 34s. per cwt. At inns there is nothing more delightful to the traveller than to have cool wines and water. To see the butter on the breakfast- table in a fluid state, when one of these patent butter-coolers can be purchased for a guinea, and the expense of the freezing power only comes to a penny, betrays sheer laziness on the part of the housekeeper. We recollect the breakfasts at the hotels at Sydney, on a late visit, which were “ first chop ” except the liquid butter. No public or private establishment should be without a portable freezing-vase; and if they are not to be had in the Colonies, a cheap and powerful freezing mixture may be obtained by pulverising glauber salts finely, and placing it at the bottom of a glass vessel. Equal parts of sal-ammoniac and nitre are then to be finely powdered and mixed together, and subsequently added to the glauber salts, stirring the powder well together to dissolve the salts; a degree of cold will be produced frequently below zero of Fahrenheit. It is said that nitrate of ammonia, phosphate of soda, and diluted nitric acid will on the instant produce a reduction of temperature amounting to eighty degrees. It is desirable to reduce the temperature of the sub- stances previously, if convenient, by placing the vessels in water, with nitre powder thrown in occasionally. Professor Brande informs us that when five parts of powdered nitre, and five parts of powdered sal-ammoniac are mixed with sixteen parts of water, the thermometer falls in the mix- ture from fifty degrees to about ten degrees, so that in this way a degree of cold much below the freezing point of water may be artificially and cheaply obtained. Iiow simple is the latter recipe! Where ice is to be had, a “ refrigerator ” or portable ice-safe will preserve ice and furnish space for cooling provisions, wine, butter, &c., for any time required, and a small-sized one, costing £4 10s., will consume only fifty pounds of ice weekly. Simpson, of Oxford Street, London, is the best maker. Ice-house.—An ice-house should not be regarded as an object of mere luxury; in the southern countries of Europe it is considered, among people of easy circumstances, as an indispensable appendage to a country house. During the dog days, especially at those periods and in those districts where the sirocco blows, a lassitude and torpor of body and mind supervene, with indigestion, or total loss of appetite, and sometimes dysenteries, which are obviously occasioned by the excess of heat, and are to be pre- vented or counteracted by the use of cold beverages. By giving a tone to the stomach, iced drinks immediately restore the functions of the nervous and muscular systems when they are languid, while they enable persons in health to endure, without much inconvenience, an atmosphere so close and sultry as would be intolerable without the remedy.—Ere.