PUDDINGS AND PIES. 56 Tlie Bake well Pudding.—Cover a dish, with thin puff paste, put a layer of any kind of jam, about half an inch thick, then take the yolks of eight eggs and ten whites, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter melted, and almond flavour to taste, beat all well together; pour the mix- ture into a dish, an inch thick, and bake an hour in a moderate oven. This is rather an expensive pudding, but it is a far-famed one in the old country. Batter Pudding.—Break three eggs into a basin, with a salt-spoon of salt, beat them well, then add about four ounces of flour, and, by degrees, half a pint of milk and a little powdered ginger. Boil in a cloth or mould well floured, or bake. Serve with sweet sauce. Suet Pudding or Dumplings.—Chop six ounces of suet fine, put it into a basin, with six ounces of flour, two ounces of bread crumbs, and a tea-spoonful of salt; stir well together, beat up two eggs, and add to them six table-spoons of milk, put by degrees into the basin, and stir well together. Divide into dumplings, or boil in a cloth floured. Boil an, hour. Suet dumplings are very good boiled with meat, and made without either eggs or mill.-. Bread and Butter Pudding.—Wash and clean two ounces of cur- rants, get ready four or five layers of bread and butter, put the latter in the dish, and between the layers put the currants, and over all put in a custard. Bake about three-quarters of an hour. Spring Pudding.—Peel and wash three dozen sticks of rhubarb, put into a stewpan with a little lemon, cinnamon, and moist sugar to sweeten ~ set it over the fire to marmalade; when done put paste round a dish, insert the rhubarb, and bake. Vermicelli or Macaroni Pudding. — Boil sufficient vermicelli or macaroni to fill three-fourths of your pie-dish, with a little sugar, butter, and spice, on the top of which put a custard, and bake. Nottingham. Pudding.—Peel and core six pudding apples, leaving, the apples whole, place them in a pie-dish, and pour over them a light batter; bake about three-quarters of an hour, and serve with sweet sauce. Boiled Custard.—Put a quart of milk into a stewpan, with the peel of a lemon cut thin, a little grated nutmeg, a bay or laurel leaf, a stick, of cinnamon; set it over a quick fire, and mind it does not boil over; when it boils set it beside, the fire, and simmer ten minutes ; break the yolks of eight and the whites of four eggs into a basin, beat them well, then pour in the milk a little at a time, set it on the fire again, and stir it with a wooden spoon ; let it have one boil, pass it through a tamis; when cold, add a little brandy or white wine, and serve in cups. Baked Custard is 'made more simply, by adding milk to eggs well beaten, and grating on the top, before being put into the oven, some nutmeg. The flavour of lemon may be added, but it is better without.