G4 PICKLES. salamander. Have ready cheese grated, or cut up into suitable small pieces sufficient cheese, which place on the macaroni, with a small quantity of butter and a few bread-crumbs. Put a little salt in, with grated cheese on the top. Brown before the fire, and serve hot. Let the consumer use either pepper or cayenne, according to fancy ; put none in the dish. Excellent Fool).—The above is a simple recipe for macaroni; but it is good in any way, whether in stews or in soups, or plain boiled, with melted butter. Vermi- celli is the same in every respect, only smaller in the pipe, and is used in puddings and 'soups in a like manner, and its name implies that it is tortuous in shape, like worms. There is nothing more nutritious to adults and children than macaroni cr vermicelli, as they are both made from the gluten of the best Southern wheat. XIX.—PICKLES. Such boiled stuff, as well might poison poison.—Iachimo in “ Cymbellne.” It is necessary that we should allude to these sponges of vinegar, as Dr. Kitchener designates them, which are often very indigestible. Make a brine of salt and water, lay the article to be pickled in soak for a day; take it out, and use good vinegar, and to every quart put an ounce of black pepper, the same of mustard-seed, half an ounce of ginger, and a few shalots. Boil it, and put over the article to be pickled. Walnuts, nasturtiums, mangoes, melons, capsicums, cucumbers, chillies, tomatoes, cauliflower, artichokes, French beans, mushrooms, red cabbage and white, samphire, horseradish, apples and peaches, marrows and pumpkins, and •every mortal thing, in fact. We recommend the piccalilli made from curry-powder, ginger, mustard, rubbed well together with salad oil, and a large proportion of cayenne. The evidence of the Lancet commissioner (Dr. Hassall) and Mr. Blackwell (of the eminent firm of Crosse and Blackwell) went to prove that the pickles sold in the shops are nearly always artificially coloured, and are thus rendered highly unwholesome, if not actually poisonous. The thrifty manager is therefore recommended to make her pickles at home, if “ her lord and master ” is fond of them ; or try the following :— Apple and Onion Compound.—Mince fine equal quantities of apples .and onions, after peeling both and coring the former, and add a little cayenne, and sufficient vinegar to cover the mixture. A very good relish for a chop, or steak, or cold meat; and far more wholesome than any kind of pickles. The Old School.—Mrs. Eaffald’s “Cookery,” published in 1806, states that, to render pickles green they should be boiled with copper pence, or allowed to remain for twenty- four hours in a copper saucepan. We fear that the natural colour of vegetables cannot be preserved -without the aid of some deleterious agent. Ure tells us that, “ The peculiar and beautiful green colour which has been frequently imparted to pickles, is due, in nearly all cases, to the use of a salt of copper. This is in the highest degree injurious, and cannot be too strongly deprecated.” The recipe we have above advised to the housewife is that usually termed piccalilli— certainly the most wholesome. It is made as follows: ginger, powdered, curry-powder, and mustard, of each two ounces, well mixed, and diluted with three or four table-spoonfuls of salad oil, then add a little cayenne pepper, and the requisite quantity of vinegar. Pour it warm on the article that you are desirous of pickling. This pickle will be well flavoured and thick, and more digestible than any made from plain vinegar.