77 BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES. Corn Oakes.—Two cups of Indian corn meal, one cup of flour, two • eggs, large spoonful of melted butter, two small tea-spoons of cream of tai'tar, one of soda, and one of sugar ; mix and bake. Economy.—How wasteful, tlien, and indeed, Row shameful, for a labourer's wife to go to the baker’s shop; and how negligent, how criminally careless of the welfare of his family must the labourer be who permits so scandalous a use of the proceeds of his labour ! . . . Give me, for a beautiful sight, a neat and smart woman, heating her oven and setting in her bread! And if the bustle does make the sign of labour glisten on her brow, where is the man that would not kiss that off rather than lick the plaster from the cheek of a duchess ?—Cobbett. Superior Oakes.—Mix with Jones’s patent flour, a little butter, and moisten with new milk ; bake on the girdle, and butter hot. Nothing ■ so simple to make, and none so wholesome or nutritious for the breakfast table. We strongly recommend them ; as the quack advertiser has it, “ one trial will prove the fact.” Yorkshire Oakes.—Melt in a pint of milk four ounces of butter; add two pounds of flour, three table-spoonfuls of yeast, and two eggs well beaten. Let rise. Then knead them lightly, and make into cakes- Let them rise on the tins before you bake them, which do in a mode- rately heated oven. Pulled Bread,—When an ordinary loaf is half baked, take it out of the oven, and tear it into small-sized pieces, of irregular shape, and bake them brown and crisp. They form crust for cheese, or may be used as a substitute for wine-biscuits. Many persons prefer crust, and in this mode their taste is easily gratified. White Bread.—He had prepared for me a simple, but hospitable repast, of which fruits from his own garden, the white bread of Olyra, and the juice of the lioney-cane, formed the most costly luxuries.—The Epicurean. Breakfast Bolls.—Mix with a pound of flour a little salt, two ounces of butter, an ounce of sugar, and two eggs, well beaten up, with half a pint of milk, lukewarm, and two table-spoonfuls of yeast; let the- dough rise, and then make it into six rolls, and set them to rise again, and then bake in tins. Northumbrian Breakfast Oakes.—Rub well into a pound of flour four ounces of butter, a little salt, a tea-spoonful o£ sugar, and a pro- portionate quantity of milk or cream ; knead it well together, and bake on a girdle. When don , open the cakes, and butter ; send them up hot to the breakfast-table, enveloped in a napkin. _ These cakes are made constantly at a private house in Tasmania, the inmates of. whom came from “ bleak Northumbria,” and are always first-rate. Italian Bread. Make a stiff dough, with flour and six table-spoonfuls of sugar, three eggs, well beaten, two ounces of fresh butter, and a little grated lemon-peel ; mix them in a pan, with a wooden spoon, and, if the dough is not firm, add more flour and sugar. Then turn it out of the pan, and work it slightly; cut it into the shape of round long biscuits, and glaze them with the white of an egg.