1 GO DRESS AND MANNERS AT A DINNER PARTY . Mrs. Partington on Markets.—Mrs. Partington says she can’t understand these ere market reports. She can understand how cheese can be lively, and pork can he active, and feathers drooping—that is, if it’s raining; but how whisky can he steadv or hops quiet, or spirits dull, she can’t see ; neither how lard can be firm in warm weather nor iron unsettled, nor potatoes depressed, nor flour rising, unless there had been yeast m it, and sometimes it wouldn’t rise then.—Newspaper paragraph. LX.-DRESS AND MANNERS AT A DINNER PARTY. The finest linen, plenty of it, and country washing.—Beau Bnnnmcl. Art. 1. Before leaving your house to go to a dinner, ball, or soiree, consult your glass twenty times, and scrupulously scrutinise each part of your toilette, thus assuring yourselves that there is nothing in contradic- tion to your age, or the exterior that nature has given you. Art. 2. All men cannot be as handsome as Adonis, but they may at least endeavour not to appear uglier than they can help. Art. 3. If you have little eyes, without lashes, and bordered with red, wear blue spectacles. A man may have bad eyes, it is absurd to have them very bad. Art. 4. If you are diminutive, ugly, without grace or tourhure, give up all intention of presenting yourself in society. You would be the butt of a thousand pleasantries; afl the wit in the world would not save you.— French “ Code Civil." Without altogether denying the wisdom of these admonitions, and fully admitting to the noble author of “ Don Juan ” that Somehow, those looks Make more impression than the best of books: we must, notwithstanding, take the freedom to state that plain meu, nay, even ugly little fellows, have met with tolerable success among the fair. Harry Jermyn, who carried all before him in his day, is described, in Grammont’s “ Memoirs,” as of small stature, with a large head and thin legs; and the redoubtable Prince de Conde had equal or greater disadvantages of person to contend against. Wilkes’s challenge to Lord Townsend is well known : “ Your lordship is one of the handsomest men i in England, and I am one of the ugliest; yet give me but half an hour’s start, and I will enter the lists against you, with any woman you choose to name, because you will omit attentions on account of your fine exterior, which I shall double on account of my plain one.” He used to add that it took him just half an hour to talk away his face: a strong proof, if true, of the sagacity of the French proverb : “ Avec les hommes l’amour entre par les yeux ; avec les femmes, par les oreilles;” for if ever man exceeded the privilege—dont jouissent les hommes d’etre laids—(the phrase is De Sevigne’s) it was Wilkes. He was so exceedingly ugly that a lottery-house keeper once offered him ten guineas not to pass his window whilst the tickets were drawing, for fear of his bringing ill luck upon the house. Balzac says that ugliness signifies little, provided it be a laidetir