APPLES. 155 Treacle Parkins.—One quart of oatmeal, three pounds of treacle, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, a little butter and flour, sweetmeats or carraways ad libitum. Mix all together, then roll it out thin, and cut into round cakes. Bake in a tin. Wholesome and excellent for children. Good Things—Sussex, in England, is said to be celebrated for six good things : A Chichester lobster, a Selsey cockle, an Arundel mullet, a Pulborough eel, an Amberley ir ut, and a Eye herring. LV11—APPLES. Apples are gold in the morning, silver at noon, and lead at night.—Old Saying. Baked Apples.—The French have a capital way of managing these fruits (the French crab), and we think you will be of opinion, after trying it, that Easter pippins are amongst the housekeeper’s most useful store. 1. Scoop out the inside of the apple by the stalk, leaving the eye unpierced. 2. Fill the hole with fresh butter. 3. Place the apple on a plate (not tin), crown downwards. 4. Sprinkle it thickly with powdered sugar. 5. Set it to bake very slowly in an oven. 6. Eat it before it cools. This was probably invented by Pomona herself—that is to say, if the lady had a kitchen, and anything better to eat than roasted acorns.—Gardeners' Chronicle. Apples a, la Cremona.—The apples are cut into small squares, and strewed over with half their weight in sugar and a few pieces of lemon- peel, and after remaining covered up until the next day, lightly dropped into a small stewpan, with three or four table-spoonfuls of cider or perry, and simmered gently until they become clear; they are then taken out, and when cold built in a wall-like form round a small china or glass dish, and the syrup being poured into the middle, the strips of lemon are placed on the top. Dried Apples.—The apples are placed in a cool oven, six or seven times in succession, and flattened each time by gentle pressure, gradually applied, as soon as they are soft enough to bear it; after which they are taken out, and as soon as cold put on clean dishe3 or glass plates. The sour are the best sort for baking. If the process is well managed the appearance of the prepared fruit is very rich, and the flavour delicious. Fruit, he.—To preserve fruits in a dry state various plans are adopted. Pears, apples, plums, &c. should be gathered in a sound state, altogether exempt from bruises, and plucked in dry weathor before they are fully ripe. One mode of preservation is to expose them in an airy place to dry a little for eight or ten days, and then lay them in dry sawdust or chopped straw, spread upon shelves in a cool apartment, so as not to touch each other. Another method consists in surrounding them with line dry sand in a vessel which should be made air-tight, and kept in a cool place. Some persons coat the fruit, including the stalks, with melted wax ; others lay the apples, &c., upon wicker-work shelves in a vaulted chamber, and smoke them daily during four or live days with vine branches or juniper wood. Apples thus treated and afterwards stratified with dry sawdust, without touching each other, will keep fresh for a whole year. The