BEER. 166 course, the fermenting vault, be as low as 50° F. In Bavaria the Govern- ment take great pains to improve this national beverage, by encouraging the growth of the best qualities of malt and barley; and Government inspectprs are apppointed to see that no deleterious substances are used. Zimmermann assumes the merit of having introduced Carrageen moss as a clarifier into the making of beer. He says one ounce is sufficient for twenty-five gallons of beer, and that it operates not only in the act of boiling with the hops, but in that of cooling, as also in the squares and casks before the fermentation has begun. The German test of clarification with the topers is, when they can read a newspaper while a tall glass beaker of beer is placed between them and the candle. M. Zimmermann professes to have also discovered an unexceptionable solvent in tartaric acid, one pound of which dissolved in twenty quarts of water, is capable of dissolving two pounds of ordinary isinglass, forming finings which may be diluted with water at pleasure. The lagerbicr once introduced in the Australasian Colonies would, without doubt, supersede all other brewings; and for this reason we have bestowed much of our limited space in its mode of manufacture. All for Beer.—Listen to the conversation of Bavarians; it turns on beer. See to what the thoughts of the exile recur—to the beer of the country. Sit down in a coffee- house or eating-house, and the waiter brings you beer unordered; and when you have emptied your glass, replenishes it without a summons. Tell a doctor the climate of Munich does not agree with you, and he will ask you if you drink enough beer. Arrive at a place before the steamer or train is due, and you are told you have so long to drink beer. Go to balls, and you find it replaces champagne with the rich, and dancing with the poor. I once went to a servants’ ball, and stayed there some time ; but when I came away, dancing had not began, and all the society were sitting still as ever in drinking beer.—Wilberforce's “ Social Life in Munich.” Berlin, White, or Pale Beer (Wess-hier). — This is the national beverage of Prussia Proper, and is brewed from one part of barley malt; and five parts of wheat malt, mingled, moistened, and crushed between rollers. This mixture is worked up first with water at 95° F., in the proportion of thirty quarts per sclieffel of the malt, to which pasty mixture of seventy quarts of boiling water are forthwith added, and the whole is mashed in the tun. After it has been left there a little to settle, a portion of the thin liquor is drawn off by the tap, transferred to the copper, and then for each bushel of malt there is added to it a decoction of half a pound of Altmark hops, separately prepared. Tins hopped wort, after half an hour’s boiling, is turned back, with the hops, into the mash-tun, of which the temperature should now be 162° F., but not more. In half an hour the wort is to be drawn from off the- grains, and pumped into the cooler. The grains are afterwards mashed with from forty to fifty quarts of boiling water per sclieffel of malt, and this infusion is drawn off, and added to the former malt. The whole mixture is set at 66° F., with a due proportion of top yeast or ordinary barm, very moderately fermented. Potato Beer,—The potatoes, being well washed, are to be rubbed down by a grating cylinder into a hopper, and then they are crushed and ground into pulp. For every sclieffel of potatoes eighty quarts of