DRINKS. 27 6 the first place, laws against ram and rum-and-water are made )>y men who can change a wet coat for a dry one whenever they choose, and who do not work up to their knees in mud and water; and, in the next place, if this stimulus did all the mischief it is thought to do by the wise men of claret, its cheapness and plenty would rather lessen than increase the avidity with which it is at present sought for.—Sydney Smith. Orange Brandy,—Take the rind of three or four lemons and of eight Seville oranges, peeled thin, and three pounds of sugar-candy, powdered. Steep the whole in a gallon of brandy for four or five days, stirring it frequently, and afterwards run it through a filterer to clear it. Drink Divine,—Mix a bottle of cider, half a bottle of perry, and the same pf sherry, with half a gill of brandy; then add a sliced lemon, the rind pared thin, and a toasted biscuit. Drink, iced or cooled. Drinking.—Three cups of wiue a prudent man may take. The first of these for constitution’s sake; The second to the girl he loves the best; The third and last to lull him to his rest; Then home to bed ! But if a fourth he pours. That is the cup of folly, and not ours. Loud, noisy talking on the fifth attends ; The sixth breeds feuds and falling-out of friends; Seven beget blows and faces stain’d with gore; Eight, and the watch-patrol breaks ope the door; Mad with the ninth, another cup goes round. And the swill’d sot drops senseless to the ground. “ Eubulus." Poetical fragment quoted by Atlienxus, turned into English verse by Cumberland. Drink Superb.—Put a wine-glass of brandy into a tumbler; add more than half lemonade, and fill up with green lime shrub. A very lovable tipple. Soda-water.— Get very drunk, and when You wake with headache, you shall see what then : King for your valet, bid him quickly bring Some hock and soda-water, then you’ll know A pleasure worthy of Xerxes the great king: For not the best sherbet sublimed with snow, Nor the first sparkle of the desert spring, Nor Burgundy in all its sunset glow, After long travel, ennui, love, or slaughter, Vie with that draught of hock and soda-water.—Byron. Soda-water ought to contain about twenty grains of bicarbonate of soda to the half pint, and is strongly impregnated with carbonic acid gas, but much is made without soda. AVben used as a drink the omission is unimportant, but not so when it is required as an centa acid. As a drink in febrile disorders, soda-water is often beneficial and grateful, but it should not be drunk in quantities. Cambridge Drink.—This is merely a mixture of equal quantities of ale and soda-water ; it is highly refreshing and of a very agreeable flavour. When made, there must be in the liquor a sprig of borage. Some parties use lemon and a little sugar. Soda-water and brandy is called in India peg, so writes Sidney Laman Blanchard. Spruce Beer.—Put four gallons of cold water into a nine-gallon keg; then add four more gallons, boiling, and six pounds of molasses, with