180 LIQUEURS. writer commences by observing that nutrition, or the process for pro- moting the growth of living beings, occupies a most important position in the stuiyof physiology, and in the important practical question of health. The consideration of the subject of nutrition comprehends the nature of nutriment or food, and its chanye into blood, and into the solids and fluids of the animal structure. Food is required in proportion to the wear and tear of the body. The waste which the animal system thus undergoes varies with the age, and the labour to which the animal is subjected. Hippocrates knew that children are more affected by absti- nence than young persons; these more than the middle-aged; and the latter more than old men. The primary and original food of man, whatever speculators may say to the contrary, is milk—a fluid of purely animal origin. If those who are to regulate diet are not guided by scientific knowledge, and do not exercise their judgment, they might be inclined to draw from this fact the inference, that the proper nutriment of the man is animal food. This deduction might be defended with some show of reason, to the exclusion of a vegetable diet. We are sorry we cannot follow the writer further, but if the reader is anxious to do so, we have only to refer him to “ Ure’s Dictionary,” iii., 257, article “Nutrition.” Legislature.—The House of Commons, in its character of a first-class club, con- siders itself badly fed. A select committee, appointed to consider the question, has decided that the kitchen department is not so good as it ought to be, and gives the keeper of the refreshment rooms till July to reform, under penalty of being superseded. The present purveyor, who has been ten years in office, says it is not his fault. Mem- bers cannot order their dinners, because they cannot tell when they will want them, and after a great speech scores of legislators rush out, all screaming for food at once.— Liverpool Albion. LXVI.—LIQUEURS. A neat glass of par/ait amour, which one sips Just as if bottled velvet tipp’d over one’s lips.—Moore. The Quarterly Review has it, that parfait amour has goue out of fashion altogether—i. e., the liqueur under that name—and that maras- chino is now the proper chasse for the gastronomes, even in preference to curatjoa. The witty scribe states, that ladies sip maraschino with such evident signs of enjoyment that, once upon a time, when a certain emi- nent diplomatist was asked by his voisine, at a petit souper, for a female toast to parallel with the masculine one of “ Women and wine,” his excellency gave, “ Men and maraschino,” which elicited general applause. Now, a fair one differed with the writer on this occasion, and thought that such a sentiment would have come with far better taste from the lips of her excellency. The Grand Chartreuse is said to be the most famous liqueur made on the Continent of Europe. Kirschwasser is in high favour in Germany; but English cherry brandy, when properly compounded, is quite equal to any foreign importation whatever as a chasse cafe. Its effects are astonishing as a “jumping powder ” before a hunt, and it steadies the sportsman’s aim in the stubble-field, as the un-