260 DOMESTIC HINTS. Nothing is so pernicious as sleeping in damp beds. If the weather is doubtful, carry an umbrella. Exercise in the open air is of the utmost importance to the human frame. Never suffer your rooms to be littered, but keep your chairs and tables in their proper places. Rub your own tables if you wish to be warm all day. Weigh tea, sugar, and meat when they come in. Dine late ; it makes the day longer, and saves a supper. Allow no perquisites; it makes the servants thieves. Look now and then into your kitchen and larder, and always know what there is for dinner. Be regular in keeping your accounts. It will secure your husband’s esteem. If you have daughters, teach them to knit and spin, and to keep the family accounts. Love your own house better than your neighbour’s. Love your own wife, if you wish her to love you. Keep no servants who have hangers on. Dress modestly, but not fine, unless the world knows you can afford it. Insure your fife, and you will sleep the better for it. Never enter an auction-room to buy things you don’t want. Keep no more servants than you can employ. Never pay a tradesman’s bill until you have cast it up. Pay all your bills at Christmas, if you can. If you owe money, be regular in paying the interest. Be not a collector of books without reading them. Commence to teach your children the rudiments of arithmetic. Do not put much money in your children’s pocket on going to school, as it is encouraging prodigality. If you employ tradesmen in building, double the estimate. Look for the deserving poor, and give them what you can spare. A good servant considers his master’s interest as his own. Never be without a will, and alter it on the purchase of property. If you lend a small sum, ask for it before it is forgotten. If you are in trade, keep no more hands than you can support. A summer-house and a winter-house have forced many a man to a poor-house. Idleness travels very leisurely, and Poverty soon overtakes her. Do not look down upon your neighbour because he is not so rich as yourself. Nothing is so graceful as being courteous to our inferiors. If you are not affluent, remember that a pin a day is a groat a year. A gossip has no home. Give alms only to the silent beggar. If you keep a drunken servant, insure your house against fire, ana yourself against the censures of Jmur neighbours.