POULTRY. 4G in Elysium ; and while one drop remains on tlie tongue, each other sense is eclipsed by the voluptuous thrilling of the lingual nerves. Fowl in Batter.—Truss the fowl, then make a forcemeat thus:—Chop fine a handful of mushrooms, a little rasped bacon, a few bleached artichoke bottoms, a few truffles, a little beef suet, an anchovy, and parsley. Mix these together, with bread crumbs, pepper, salt, and mixed spice. Put a lump of butter into a stewpan; when it is warm add the mixture, and let it fry a little; moisten it with a glass of white wine, and after it has stewed a quarter of an hour take it off the fire, and add the yolks of two eggs. Put this forcemeat into the body of the fowl, cover it with paper, and roast. When the fowl is half done, remove the paper. In the meantime have a light batter made, with a little salt and grated nutmeg in it. Baste the fowl with it, so as to give it a thin coating. When the first coating is dry, add a second and third, until a delicate coat of the batter is formed of a light-brown colour. Serve with sauce of any kind, thickened with cream. The above is a refined, delicate, and expensive mode of dressing a fowl. Canards h la Braise.—Lard a pair of ducks, and place them in a stewpan, breasts downwards, in which you must lay a couple of slices of bacon or ham, with two onions sliced, salt, pepper, and a glass of claret or port; let it stew gently, and when done serve with sauce; either morels, capers, or artichokes may be sliced and added, with a small quantity of consomme or stock. Political canard is a literary dish, very often served up at the Antipodes by the local Press. M. Quetelet, in the Annuaire de l’Academia Franc,aisc, attributes the first appli- cation of the term canard, or hoax, to Norbet Cornelissen, who gave out this hit at the ridiculous pieces of intelligence in the public journals. Stewed Duck, with Olives.—Give the duck a round form; rub it with lemon, and brown it in a pan with butter; when it has taken a good colour add some stock; when nearly done scald some olives, stone them, without breaking the olives, into the sauce in which the duck was cooked, and serve the duck with olives round it. A colonial lady, a few years since, not having the advantage of a work on the cuisine, ordered a dish of this kind, and it came to table -with the olives unstoned, to the wonder of a Cardinal Richelieu, were he present. The duck looked, for all the world, as if the unskilful hand had merely spilt the olives over it on the passage from the kitchen to the refectory. In this dish some prefer to cut the duck into joints before commencing its preparation. Fowls, with Bagout of Oysters.—Make a forcemeat, and add to it one dozen oysters; fill the craw of the fowls with it, truss them, and put on their breasts thin slices of bacon'with writing paper over it; roast them; make some gravy, and put into it some oysters, a little ketchup, and the juice of a lemon ; thicken with flour and butter; take away the bacon and paper, and serve the fowls in the gravy. Pigeon Compote.—Truss four pigeons as for boiling; grate some bread ; scrape some bacon, or cut it into small slices ; chop some thyme, parsley, and onion, and some lemon-peel; grate some nutmeg, and season with pepper and salt. Mix it up with an egg. Put this forcemeat into