173' WINES. Good port wine, duly kept, is, when taken in moderation, one of tlie most wholesome of vinous liquors. It strengthens the muscular system, assists the digestive powers, accelerates the spirits, and sharpens the mental energies. In excess, it is, perhaps, the most mischievous of wines, and most likely to produce those permanent derangements of the digestive organs which follow the habitual use of distilled spirits.—Brandc. The Burgundy -wines are remarkable for richness of flavour and perfume ; a red wine of that kind (Chambertin), history has it, was the favourite drink of the great conqueror of Europe, as well as Louis XIV. When a French regiment on the march comes in sight of the Clos Vougeot, in Burgundy, the commanding officer orders a halt and a presentation of arms, as an honour to the grape.* Sauterne and Barsac are light wines, well flavoured, and will keep a long time. The Johan- nesberger stands at the head of the wines of the Rhine; and next in order is Steinberger. They do not arrive at maturity for five or six years, and will keep twice that period. Tokay,f so called from a town in Hungary, is the first of the liqueur wines, and Malmsey Madeira comes afterwards. The Hockheimer, or hock, is made from a few vines that grow near Hockheim, on the Maine. Scharrberger and Greenhauser are called the nectars of the Moselle. The Laubenheim and Heerstein, as well as the other delicate Moselle wines, are used for the table. The best German red wine is the Asmanshausen. In 1836 the Duke of Nassau sold the finest cask in his cellar for £500, at the rate of £1 4s. per bottle. The Italian wine is-Marsala. The Cape of Good Hope wines are inferior, except the luscious Constantia. Port wine is the- produce of the upper Douro, and requires' time to fit it for the table; but it is soon made so, and to have on its bottles the crust of age. Spain produces an enormous quantity of wine, which is not suitable to the English market. Mr. Porter estimated that—good, passable,■'and bad —it amounted to 120,000,000 gallons ; but Sir E. Tennent states that, except in. Andalusia and a few other places, its manufacture is so im- perfect, its qualities so peculiar, and its flavour so extraordinary, from carelessness, dirt, and other qualities, it is not in demand in England. The Montillado of Spain is a wine which appears to depend for its character on a white soil, containing seventy per cent, of carbonate of' lime; and the Manzanilla is the produce of red earths, somewhat sandy. From unknown causes, it is certain that there are wines raised in a few districts that no art or care has hitherto succeeded in- producing of equal goodness in other places, such as Tokay, Con- stantia, Johannesberger, the best clarets, Burgundy, and champagne. , *, Burgundy. richness of flavour and perfume, and all the more delicate qualities, of the juice of the grape, they rank as the first in the world; and it was not without reason that the Dukes of Burgundy, in former times, were designated as the princes Hoq hnna inn a Homrt owann ' ° The best of re^Champagne are those of Yerzy, Verzenay, Maily, Bouzy, an?. Basle. The Clos St. Thierry, in the vicinity of Rheims, produces wine which unites the colour and aroma of Burgundy to the lightness of champagne. t Tokay.-— A wine made at Tokay, in Hungary; it is luscious, and yet has an agreeable quickness or flavour. It is usually more or less turbid, and is the only wino winch is preferred in that state, and consequently agitated before it is poured into the