I — GAME. |. m toast, according to the sportsman’s rule. If over-done they are npoiled. Hare.—There is nothing better than hare well cooked, and there is hardly any dish so insipid and bad if improperly done; and the grand idetail is the basting. Some fill the belly with forcemeat; but if the hare is tender, don’t do so. Put it down to roast, like all meats, away from . the fire at first, but afterwards draw nearer, and keep eternally basting vwith milk or cream, and subsequently with butter. Mince the liver, and dour the hare well when nearly done, so as to raise a froth on the joint; ;serve hot, with red currant jelly. Jugged and hashed hare are favourite dishes ; but there is no cooking like the roast, and the continuous and: : interminable basting. Hare.— In fact, liow light of digestion we feel after a hare ! How tender its processes after swallowing ! What chyle it promotes! How ethereal—as if its living celebrity were a type of its nimble coursing through the animal juices! The notice might be longer. It is intended less as a natural history of the hare, than a cursory thanks to the country “good unknown.” The hare has many friends, but none sincerer than, Elia (Lamb). The Hake.—We must now speak of the hare. Concerning this animal, Archistratus,. ' that author so curious in his dishes, speaks thus :— “ Many are the ways, and many the recipes. For dressing hares; but this is best of all: To place before a hungry set of guests, A slice of roasted meat fresh from the spit, Hot, season’d only with plain, simple salt. Not too much done. And do not you be vexed At seeing blood fresh trickling from the meat. But eat it eagerly. All other ways Are quite superfluous; such as when cooks pour A lot of sticky, clammy sauce upon it, Parings of cheese, and lees, and dregs of oil. As if they were preparing cats’-meat.” “ Atlienccus,” translated by Tonge. Eabbits are dry meat, only fit for pie3 or curries; and excellent served as the latter; indeed, lean meats always are best for this Indian dish. Wild Pigeons (Australia and New Zealand).—These birds are very fine eating, stuffed, larded, and served up with sauce; or they are excellent stewed, with onions, in a rich gravy. Cook them as a grill, with mode- ration, on a slow fire ; put a bit of butter on them, and serve hot, with the juice of a lemon and a little cayenne. Wattle Bird (Australia).—These birds, when in good order, are very fine eating, either dressed plain, or served up in the same way as ortolans. Turkey Bustard (Australia): a very fine bird, nearly the size of the common turkey. Must be kept sufficiently, and dressed in a similar way to its namesake. They vary in weight from twelve to twenty-four pounds. The flesh is rather dark, but, well cooked, it is superior food. Gould describes the Australian bustard as of the order Otis Australa- sianus. There is another species of turkey in Australia—the wattled