VINEGAR. 198 sour-crout; boiled carp, and savoury puddings, swimming in oiled butter; Dutch cneese pears, biscuits, with coffee and liqueur. The Viennese are many of them great epicures' and the Hungarians commence their repast with salted tongue, and the dinner ends with the roasts. At Wurtemburg the sausages are prepared, from various materials. Blood, liver, bacon, brains, milk, bread, and meat are mixed together, with salt and spices. The mixture is then put into bladders, and being boiled, is smoked. The Saturday Review writes, that the Romans made little use of cattle as food; and the fattening of cattle for this purpose was unknown to them. Pliny mentions the use of beef, roasted, or in the shape of broth, as a medicine ; but not as food. Plautus speaks of beef and mutton as sold in the markets; but amidst the immense variety of fish, flesh, and fowl, we hear little of the above meats in the Roman larder. Fi3h and game, poultry, venison, and jiork are often mentioned as elements of a luxurious banquet; but undoubtedly the common food of all classes was vegetables flavoured with lard, or bacon. The warriors of Ilomer waxed strong and mighty on roast beef; but Regulu3 and Cincinatus “ filled themselves,” as Lord Macaulay would say, with beans and bacon. The cattle slain in sacrifice furnished, we must suppose, a special banquet for the epicure. Such, perhaps, were among the peculiar delicacies of the “suppers of the pontiffs.” Bechman, in his “ History of Inventions,” tells us, that among the Romans, all articles of food were cut into small morsels before being served at table, and this was the more necessary, as the company did not sit at table, but lay on couches towards it, conse- quently could not well use both their hands for eating. Por cutting meat, persons of rank kept in their houses a carver; he was designated the scissor, carpus, or carptor. Dr. Johnson asserts that the Scotch Highlanders knew nothing about dinner-knives till after the Revolution. Butler describes the dagger of one of the Hudibras heroes as— “ A serviceable dudgeon. Either for fighting, or for drudging. IVhen it had stabbed, or broke a head. It would scrape trenchers, or chip bread; Toast cheese or bacon ; though it were To bait a mouse-trap, 'twould not care.” LXXVIII.—VINEGAR. There are only two bad things in this world—sin and bile.—Hannah More. Boil eleven gallons of water and fourteen pounds of sugar for twenty minutes; then pour it into a vessel to cool; when milk-warm, add yeast, and let it ferment. Place it in a warm place, and in a few months you will have good vinegar. Wine and ale vinegar is made in a similar way, by continuing the fermentation; and, after the vinegar is ripe, you may have shalot, horseradish, chili, cayenne, cucumber, gooseberry, or any other fruit or vegetable, by merely adding the flavouring ingredients. There is another mode of keeping up a stock of vinegar for family use, which is a very simple operation. Have a barrel to hold from thirty to forty quarts ; then boil two quarts of good vinegar, pour it into the barrel, stop the bung-hole, and roll it about well. Half fill the barrel with light French wine, and leave it for a time in a warm place. At the end of a week boil two more quarts of vinegar, pour it into the barrel, and fill it up with wine and set it by. The vinegar may be used in a month, and it will acquire strength by keeping. If the vinegar should at any time be getting weak, add two quarts of vinegar to the casK, after boiling. For fifteen years a barrel of vinegar has been thus kept up, and found to improve every year.