275 DRINKS. Mississippi Punch,—One glass of Outard brandy, half ditto of Jamaica rum, a table-spoonful of arrack, a quarter of a lemon, and a table-spoonful of white sugar ; fill the tumbler with water and ice. Let it be thoroughly mixed, and serve with a straw. PHI the goblet again ! for I never before Pelt the glow which now gladdens my heart to its core: Let us drink!—who would not ?—since through life’3 varied round. In the goblet alone no deception is found.—Byron. Badminton.—Peel half a moderate-sized cucumber, and put it into a mug, silver or crockery ; with four ounces of powdered sugar, a little nutmeg, and a bottle of claret. When the sugar is dissolved, add a bottle of soda-water, and it is then fit for use. Supreme Nectar.—Put into a nine-gallon cask six pounds of moist sugar, five ounces of bruised ginger, four ounces of cream of tartar, four lemons, and seven gallons of boiling water. When cool, add half a pint of yeast. Let it work a couple of days ; then strain, and add a pint of brandy. In a few days bottle and wire down. Here sparkles the nectar, that, hallow’d by love. Could draw the angels of old from their sphere; "Who for wine of this earth left the fountains above. And forgot heav’n stars for the eyes we have here. Lalla Roolch. Common'Nectar,—Put half a pound of loaf sugar into a large jug; add one pint of cold water; stir the sugar till dissolved; pour over it a bottle of hock and one bottle of Madeira. Mix them well together, and grate in half a nutmeg, with a drop or two of essence of lemon. Set the jug in a bucket of ice for an hour. Welsh Nectar.—Cut the peel of four lemons thin, pour. on it two gallons of boiling water ; when cold, add the strained juice of the lemons, and a pound of raisins, stoned and chopped fine. Let it stand a few days, and then strain it and bottle for use. A small addition of brandy is an improvement. Tamarind Drink.—A very wholesome summer drink can be made from an ounce and a half of tamarinds, three ounces of currants, and two ounces of stoned raisins, boiled in three pints of water. Strain, and add a little lemon-peel. Spanish Drinks.—First and foremost, peerless and revivifying, was agraz—a pearl of drinks, pressed from the pulp of the unripe grape, tem- pered with water of icy coldness, mixed with the chamomile wine of Southern Spain—the manzanella ; next comes orchata cle cheifas—white, creamy, nutty liquor ; then we drink orangeade and lemonade, only to be made in Spain; and last, leche lilada, rendered more palatable with sugar and beaten snow.—“ Tales of Spanish Lifef in Bentley's Miscellany. There has been, in all governments, a great deal of absurd canting about the con- gumption of spirits. We believe the best plan is to let people drink what they like, and wear what they like; to make no sumptuary laws either for the belly or the back. In & 2