16 BAKING. Turnips. Charles Lamb travelling once in company with a farmer, the latter took the author to be of the same occupation as himself, and asked him, “ What he thought of turnips this year ? ” The writer of “ Elia ” replied, “ That will entirely depend on the boiled legs of mutton.”—Anecdotes of Charles Lamb. V.-BAKING. Come, sir, to dinner. Dromio! keep the gate. Husband, I’ll dine with you to-day. Adriana, m the Comedy of Errors. This is a much more easy mode of cookery than roasting, and the prejudice exists solely from the imperfect way it is done. In the American cooking stoves the difference cannot be discovered by the most fastidious epicure. There are many joints to which baking is peculiarly applicable, such as legs and loins of pork, legs and shoulders of mutton, veal, &c. A baked sucking pig will be found equal to a roasted one, if occasionally basted, which is the great secret of the domestic oven. Poultry dressed in this way are good. A hare baked, and basted with butter and milk, is first-rate food. A baked ham is far preferable to a boiled one, being of finer flavour, and more full of its natural juices. What nicer dinner can the housewife put on the table than a piece of beef or mutton, with baked potatoes under the meat, or a Yorkshire- pudding, or even both ? Such a dish ought to satisfy the appetite of the most particular gourmet, and so it would were he in the least hungry. In baking one matter must be borne in recollection : there must not be a variety of dishes in the oven at the same time, evolving their different flavours and odours; this is one of the causes of the failure of the bake. A story is told in the Quarterly how some connoisseurs were deceived in ordering a roast turbot for dinner at Friceurs’, in 1836. They partook of the fish with great gusto, voted it excellent, and dined imder the idea that they had made a grand discovery in gastronomy. One of the party, however, more inquisitive than the rest, wished for a “ second edition ” of the dish, and applied to the Frenchman for the secret mode of the roast, when the truth came out: “ Why, sare, we no roast him at all; we- put him in oven and bake him ! ” Baked fish and baked joints of meat are unexceptionable when, like everything else in cookery, it is properly done and well attended to. This mode was in full operation in days of yore, for we are informed in “ Hamlet ” that— “ the funeral bahed meats Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.” The Oven.—The Dutch oven combines the twofold advantage of roasting and baking, and is useful for small dishes or birds, or for warming cold meat; it is easily heated, and causes no increased fuel ; and with an ordinary stove, either English or American, the oven is always ready to impart the necessary heat that the cook requires. Kitchener tells us with truth that baking is the cheapest and most convenient way of dressing a dinner in small families, and that the oven is the only kitchen a poor man. has if lie wishes to enjoy a joint of meat at home with his family.