67 OYSTERS. in hot weather. Mustard and cress, radishes, chicory, chives, &c., are all proper of their kind to be added to the articles we have previously quoted for the making of salads. Parmentiers Salad Vinegar.—Shalots, sweet savory, chives, and tarragon, of each three ounces, two table-spoonfuls of dried mint leaves, and the same of balm; beat together in a mortar, and put them into a stone gallon bottle; fill up with strong white wine vinegar, cork it securely, and let it stand a fortnight exposed to the sun, then filter it. Good Advice.—Persons in health, who feel a craving for salad, may indulge in the enjoyment of it to a great extent with perfect impunity, if not with positive benefit. Oil, when mixed in salad, appears to render the raw vegetables and herbs more digestible. , Vinegar likewise promotes the digestion of lettuce, celery, and beetroot. Endive is very wholesome, strengthening, and easy of digestion; but, when strong seasoning is added to it, it becomes an epicurean sauce.—Mayo. We think we ought to devote a paper to oysters, as they mended by the faculty as affording much nourishment, and | digestion. The French allow the British oysters to be superior to their owd, according to “ Le Manuel de 1’Amateur des Huitresbut Mackay, in Ms “ Letters from the United States,” informs us that nowhere are there such fine oysters and so plentiful as at New York. Indeed, Mackay’s description is sufficient to make “ one’s mouth water,” if there is any meaning in such an expression. In the hotels at New York oysters are to be had at all hours, either from the shell, as they are commonly eaten in England, or cooked in twenty—or, for all I know to the contrary, in forty or a hundred—different ways. Oysters pickled, stewed, baked, roasted, fried, and scalloped—oysters made into soups, patties, and puddings—oysters with condiments, and with- out condiments—oysters without stint or limit, fresh as the fresh air, and almost as abundant, are daily offered to the palates of the Man- hattanese, and appreciated with all the gratitude which such a bounty of nature ought to inspire! The most esteemed oysters in England are the natives; but the coasts everywhere abound with the common sorts, and the Irish oyster fisheries, as well as the Scotch, are highly esteemed. The southern colonies produce this delicious and wholesome bivalve in perfection, and those from Tasmania are unequalled in goodness and flavour. The Romans of old commenced their repasts with a few oysters obtained from the British coast, which custom is continued to the present day by the nation, who understand better than most peoples the cookery of food, and the requirements for the table: hence the common aphorism, “ As many Frenchmen as many cooks.” Boiled Oysters.—Take four ovsters, wash them clean—that is, wash f 2 XXI.-OYSTERS. Fool. Canst tell bow on oyster makes Ms shell ? Lear. No. Fool. Nor I neither.