225 TASMANIAN FISH. collaring, currying, kippering, and pickling, that most delicious of tlie finny tribe, whose “ body, broad and muscular, gradually tapers to the tail and ends in a crescentic curve.” —James A. Youl The Salmon Ova.—After several unsuccessful attempts the ova has at last safely arrived in Tasmania, and been deposited in the place prepared for its reception. The arrival of the ova is an important event in the annals of Australia, and it has been celebrated accordingly. Henceforth, we may reasonably expect that the king of fishes will increase and multiply in all the colonies. This fortunate transmission has been achieved chiefly owing to the continuous industry and praiseworthy perseverance of Mr. Youl, the agent for the colony in London ; the advice and attention of the Messrs. Kamsbottom, of Clitheroe; the practical aid of Mr. Frank Buckland, of piscatory renown; the generous liberality of Messrs. Money Wigram and Sons, the owners of the Blackwall liner, Norfolk, in bringing it out gratuitously; the assistance of the Victorian Government, in its transhipment by the Victoria, and its handsome monetary contribution to the undertaking. These several parties deserve honourable mention in future Colonial history. We regard with fear the result of the Acclimatisation Society’s introducing into the Tasmanian rivers that most voracious fish, the Murray cod; for we think the consequences would be injurious to the propagation of the salmon. “ Piscator ” tells us that the salmonidce, or salmon tribe, are the very aristocracy of fishes, and of these the salmon, the acknowledged king of the fresh-waters, ranks pre- eminently first. The period of these fish coming in and out of season is determined in a great degree by that at which they deposit their spawn. When the rudiments of roe first show themselves the fish is usually in greatest*perfection. The best proof of the condition of a salmon is a small head, a thick shoulder, a great roundness and breadth over the back, and continued thickness down to the tail. When a salmon comes in From the sea, it is often covered with small parasitical insects, which, so far from denoting ill health, affords a certain proof of the excellence of the condition. Tasmanian Fish.—Of other fish, the finest are taken on the Hippolyte Bank, near Port Arthur, from which albicore (arbouker) weighing from 11b. to 1701bs. (lOflbs.), and trumpeters from lib. to 501bs. (Solbs.) weight, are brought by the fishermen. They sell for about threepence a pound. King carp (salmon, so called) of the white species, and sometimes weighing ten pounds, mullet, perch, and garfish are also taken in large quantities in the various bays, while an hour in the evening frequently rewards the fisher in the Derwent with a heavy basket of rock-cod, flatheads, perch, &c. The red gurnard, the silver fish, and flounders are taken in large quantities at George Town, and are sold in Launceston at a low price. At Fengal, in the clear stream of the South Esk, herrings are taken with a rod and fly, and in the month of April they can be taken by hand in the mill-race at Millford. They are also caught in large numbers at New Norfolk, at the Ouse Bridge, and at the Cataract at Launceston. Eels are abundant and of large size in all the deep and sluggish rivers of the island, and are taken by thousands, of fine flavour and of large size; at certain seasons from the Both well mill-ponds, and sent in light carts to Hobart Town. They sell for about fourpence a yard in Both well. In the South Esk, and in most of the rivulets in the colony, a diminutive trout, about three or four inches long, is taken in considerable numbers. Shrimps are taken at George Town and sent over per coach to Hobart Town, where they are sold for sixpence a quart. Hobart Town supplies Launceston and the interior with fine crayfish. Oysters are protected by local laws, and while in season, i. e., from April to October, are very fine. The South Port oysters are frequently fifteen inches in circumference. Other shell-fish are plentiful, and are retailed about the streets by the city Arabs, boys who, as Scott says, “have no ambition beyond the cockle-trade.”— Hull’s “Forty Years’ Experience in Tasmania.’’ A Tasmanian Picnic,— Anon he led that Koyal pair And goodlie companie Into a tent, where stood a board So filled, you plain mote see That Master Cook had mastered well Ilia task of cookerie ; p