283 DRINKS. juniper-berries; it is a corn spirit,.and is rendered sweet and cordial-like by the use of several injurious substances. Plymouth gin, as manufac- tured by Coates and Co., is a far purer spirit. The rectifiers employ a pure grain spirit, and flavour with the wash of the whisky distilleries. —Ibid. A Whet.—In Turkey nothing is more common than for the Mussulmans to take several glasses of strong spirits by way of appetisers. I have seen them take as many as six of raid before"dinner, and swear that they dined the better for it. I tried the experiment, but fared like the Scotchman, who, having heard that the birds called ldtdwakes were admirable whets, ate six of them, and complained that “he was no hungrier than when he began.”—Note to “ Don Juan,” Murray’s Edition. Aleberry,—A beverage made by boiling ale with spice, sugar, and toasted bread. A domestic remedy for a cold. To Mull Wine (French recipe).—Boil in a wine-glass and a half of water a quarter of an ounce of spice (cinnamon, bruised ginger, and cloves) with three ounces of fine sugar, until they form a thick syrup, which must not on any account be allowed to burn; pour in a pint of port wine, and stir it gently until it is on the point of boiling only : it should be served immediately. In France, fight clarets take the place of port wine, in making it, and the better kinds of vins du pays are very palatable, when thus prepared: water, one and a half wine-glassfuls; spice, quarter of an ounce ; port wine or claret, one pint; orange-rind, if used, to be boiled with the spice ; sherry, or fine raisin, or ginger wine, as above, stirred hot to the yolks of four fresh eggs, will be found excellent.— Hints for the Table. Intemperance.—The best way of weaning the poor man from intemperance is by counter-agents, by education, by good food, and by good cookery, by good ventilation, by the establishment of well-regulated clubs and institutions, to be conducted by the working men themselves, by free access to parks and public places, by exhibitions and museums, by good available libraries, and by entertainments and rational diversions in the widest as well aB the best sense of the word.—Lord Neaves, at the last Social Science Congress. Ancient Wines.—The names of the drinks and drinking-cups of the ancients, ac- cording to Athenaeus, translated by Yonge, are as follows:—Brinies—Abates, Acanthus, Adrian, Alban, Ambrosia, Ampkis,' Ancona, Autocratic, Babylon, Barbine, Bibline, Buxentine, Cfecuban, Calenian, Capua, Caucine, Chalydonian, Chian, Cnidian, Coan, Coptos, Corcyrean, Corir hian, Erbulian, Eubcean, Falernian, Formian, Fundan, Gauran, Halicarnassus, Hermes, Icarian, Italian, Labican, Lesbian, Mamertine, Mareotic, Mar- seilles, Marsic, Mitylensean. Myndian, Myrtile, or Myrrhine, Nectar, Nomentum, Passum, Peparethian, Phoenician, Pollian, Praeneste, Pramnian, Privernium, Psithian, Rhegian, Rhodian, Sabine, Samagorian, Scented, Sciathus, Setine, Signine, Spoletuin, Surrentine, Tseniotic, Tarentine, Thasian, Thebais, Tibur, Trebellian, Trifoline, Urban, Veliter- nian, Vennfrum, and Zacynthian. The names of the drinking-cups are more numerous than the drinksAcatia, Aciei3, Aleison, Amalthea, Ancyla, Aotus, Aracis, Argyris, Aroclum, Aryballus, Arystichus, Batiaciuin, Baucalis, Bessa, Bicus, Bombylius, Bromias, Calpinum, Cantharus, Carchesium, Celebe, Chonni, Chutrides, Ciborium, Cissybium, Couonius, Cothon, Cotylisca, Crounea, Culix, Cupellum, Cyathis, Cymbium, Dactylotos, Deinias, Depas, Depastron, Linus, Ephebus, Ethanion, Gyala, Hedypotides, Hemitomus, Herculeum, Holinus, Ilystiaciun, Iphicratis, Labionius, Lacena. Lepaste, Lesbian, Luterium, Manes, Mastus, Mathalides, Mele, Nidos, Oinisteria, Ollix, O011, Ooseypkin, Oxybaphum, Panathenaicum, Pelica, Pella, Pelleter, Pentaploa, Potachnum, Phialo, Philotesia, Phthois, Plemochoe, Pristis, Proaron, Procliytes, Psygeus, Rheonta, Rhodias, Rysis, Scallium, Scaphinum, Scyphus, Seleucis, Tabaitas, Thermopotis, and Tragelaphus.