151 CAKES. Scotch Buns.—Take two pounds of flour, one pound of raisins, stoned and cut, and one pound of currants. Add three ounces of orange- peel, the same of citron, and of almonds blanched and cut; mix together. Take some mixed spice, and add. Make a hole in the flour, and break in three-quarters of a pound of butter; pour warm water on the butter to soften it; then work the flour and butter together; add a quarter of a pint of yeast; work it smooth. Cut a third part of the paste for sheets ; spread out the rest of the paste on the table, and put the fruit in. Pour about half a gill of yeast over the fruit and paste, and work together. Then make it round ; roll out the sheet in a circular form ; lay the bun in the middle, and gather the sheet round it; roll it out the desired thickness; run a fork through in different parts, down to the bottom, and pinch it on the top. Flour double paper, and put the bun on it, and give a cut round the side. Mind it does not run in the oven, and bake moderately. Derby Cakes.—Rub half a pound of butter into a pound of flour, put half a pound of currants, half a pound of sugar, and one egg; mix all together, with a quarter of a pint of milk; cut them into round cakes, and bake. Rout Oakes.—Two pounds of flour, one pound of butter, one pound of sugar, and one pound of currants; wet them with three eggs beaten, half a pint of milk, two glasses of white wine, and one glass of brandy. Work them together, and bake in a tin plate. Scotch Fancy Oakes,—Rub half a pound of butter into a pound and a half of flour, then break four eggs into an earthen pan, with three quarters of a pound of sugar ; whisk them for five minutes, then make a print with your butter and flour, pour in the eggs and sugar, and add half a gill of cream. Mix all into a dough, cut into pieces two inches across, and an eighth of an inch in thickness, then cover your tins with wafer paper; lay your cakes on it, and bake. Portugal Cakes.—One pound of flour, one pound of white sugar, and one pound of fresh butter. Work it well up until it crumbles ; then add ten eggs and half a pound of currants, with a little white wine. Bake in tins only half filled. Bordeaux Oake.—Roll pakte out less than a quarter of an inch thick, and cut it into six or seven portions of equal size ; lay them on buttered tins floured, and bako them in an oven until they are firm and crisp, and of a pale brown. When they are cold, spread upon each a different kind of choice preserve, and pile the wrhole evenly in the form of a cake. The top may be iced and decorated. Mrs. Hill’s Oakes.—A pound of flour, a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, the yolks of two eggs, and the peel of two lemons, cut very small; to be rolled into thin cakes ; they can be baked in the oven after the bread is drawn.