o 2 LXXXVII!.—COPPER SAUCEPANS. To be eaten in perfection, tbe interval between meat being- taken out of the stewpan and its being put into the mouth must be as short as possible; but ceremony, that most formidable enemy of good cheer, too often decrees otherwise, and the guests seldom get a bit of an entremet till it is half cold.—Kitchener. The precise danger from the use of copper saucepans imperfectly tinned is far from being generally understood. It appears that the acid contained in stews, as lemon-juice, though it does not dissolve the copper by being merely boiled in it a few minutes, nevertheless, if allowed to cool and stand in it for some time, will acquire a sensible impregnation of poisonous matter, as verdigris, or the green band which lines the interior of the vessel. Dr. Falconer observed, that syrup of lemons boiled fifteen minutes in copper or brass pans did not acquire a sensible impreg- nation ; but if it was allowed to cool and remain in the pans for twenty- four hours, impregnation was perceptible, even to the taste, and was discovered by the test of metallic iron. This fact was further confirmed by the researches of Proust, who states, that in preparing food or pre- serves in copper, it is not till the fluid ceases to cover the metal, and is reduced in temperature, that the solution of the metal begins.—Christison on Poisons. Caution.—Persons cannot be too cautious in using copper saucepans, and they should be often examined. Many cases of poisonings have occurred from the verdigris having become mixed with food. In 1829 a gentleman was poisoned in Paris by eating soup warmed in a copper saucepan; and in 1837 the family of a nobleman in the same city died from eating stew which had been allowed to get cold in a copper pan. The French are more fond of using copper saucepans than we are. LXXXIX.—COOKERY FOR THE DESTITUTE. There is no reason whv the poor man’s mess of porridge should not be made as savoury and wholesome, and bo prepared with as much care and cleanliness, as the more costly viands of the rich.—Paper on “ Charity Soups." Dr. Kitchener tells us that a gallon of good broth may be made for foorpence, as follows:—Put four ounces of Scotch barley and four ounces of sliced onions into five quarts of water, boil gently for one hour, and pour it into a pan; then put into the saucepan two ounces of beef or mutton dripping, and three ounces of fat bacon; when melted, stir into it four ounces of oatmeal, rub these until you make a paste, which add to the barley broth, and season with black pepper, salt, &c., and it is ready. On a larger scale 1,000 quarts of soup may be made at twopence half- penny per quart, by using the following ingredients—viz.:—210 pounds of beef (fore-quarters), 90 pounds legs of beef, 3 bushels of peas, 1 bushel