108 CONFECTIONERY. but, instead of making it into sticks, drop them on the marble in round pieces. Acidulated Drops.—Put a quantity of pounded loaf sugar, with some rasped orange-peel, into a saucepan; add a quantity of orange- juice, to give it flavour. Dry the whole over the Are, until it is of a proper consistence; then drop the confection from the point of a knife on clean paper. Sugar-plums and Comfits.—Make these confections at home, unless you wisli to be poisoned with those generally so highly coloured, and sold at the shops. The deleterious admixtures of colouring matter, in the general run of confectionery, has been over and over again exposed by scientific medical men, but all to no purpose. Sugared almonds, and comfits of every kind, can be easily made, for they are merely paste, sugar, and fruit. Creme h l’Eau.—Grate a rind of a lemon, and add to it, with sugar, a pint of water: boil, and then add the yolks of eight eggs, well beaten ; when cool, put in a bowl in a saucepan of hot water, till done enough, and pour into the dish on which you serve it, garnished with slices of lemon. Vanilla Ice (German).—Boil half a pound of sugar into a syrup; add one quart of good cream, and, having tied up half a drachm of bruised vanilla in a muslin slip, boil the whole together; having beaten up four or five yolks of eggs, add them to the cream ; press the vanilla, and take the slip out, and pjp.ce it in a refrigerator to cool.—Madame Scheiblcr. VaiuRa is used very much in confectionery as a flavouring ingredient. It is the cpicudrum vanilla of Linnaeus, and is a creeping shrub of the orchis tribe, growing in Peru, Mexico, and the tropical parts of America. The pods are dried and preserved in tinfoil for exportation. They would thrive weU in Queensland, Australia. It is worth about £& per pound. Kussian Charlotte.—Place in a mould, in a circle, some ladies’ finger ■cakes, and let them lie closely together; line the sides of the mould with them by placing them upright. Pour into the middle a whipped cream ; turn it upside down in the dish. If made in warm weather, it must be iced. Currant and Kaspberry Jelly.—Take two pounds of ripe currants and a pound of raspberries, put them on a stone in a preserving-pan, with a spoonful of water ; slightly mash them with a wooden spoon, and strain them through a napkin. Mix this juice with sugar and a little isinglass, boil and skim, and put it in a mould to set. Orange, rose, violet, and lemon jellies may he made in a similar way, as weU as rum, cherry brandy, annisette, curaijoa, maraschino, and any kind of wine, which article used will give the name to the jelly. Caledonian Cream.—This favourite cream may be made as follows:— Two tea-spoonfuls of white sugar, one ditto of raspberry jam, the whites