39 CONDIMENTS. Onions are a bulbous root much used in cookery, and are considered a strengthening food, and a stomachic. There are many varieties of onions, ai\d of the same description of plant, viz., garlic, shalot, leek, olives, and the cream-bole. The potato-onion, grown by planting sets, is an earlier kind, and is more mild and useful than any sorts. Potato-onions, stewed properly, and served with roasts of any kind, are viewed with corsiderable favour by lovers of gastronomy. Soups made of this vege- table are considered highly restorative to the system. CrAHiac.—Garlic has, of all our plants, the greatest strength, affords most nourish- ment, and supplies most spirits to those who eat little flesh, as the poorer people seldom do n the hotter, and especially the more eastern climates; so that the labour of the woild seems to be performed by the force and virtue of garlic, leeks, and onions, no otlnr food of herbs or plants yielding strength enough for such labour.—Sir William Temple on Health and Long Life. Marjoram.—This is one of the sweet herbs used in the cuisine. Tlere are many sorts—the pot-marjoram, the sweet-marjoram, and the common. Savory.—This plant is used dried and bottled. There are two kinds, :he winter and summer. Basil.—There are two kinds of basil—the sweet and the least, and it is a herb in every-day use. Sweet basil, called rayhan in Persia, and generally found in churchyards.—Notes lo ,lLalla Roolch.” Thyme.—This is another of the sweet herbs, and is in great request by the cook. The lemon-thyme is the most flavoured, and the common ;he least so. Pennyroyal is not much in request, and is sometimes used where mint cannot be procured. Sage.—This is a very important herb where pork, geese, or ducks are concerned ; not omitting some dry for pea-soup. The best kind for cookery is the sort possessing a tinge of purple. Parsley.—There are three varieties: the common, the broad-leaved, and the curled. The common is the best flavoured, but the curled is most in request for garnishing. It will keep well dried, but may be obtained fresh all the year. Tarragon.—This herb is duly appreciated by connoisseurs, but neglected by the commonalty. It is highly aromatic and full of flavour. It is a curious fact, strikingly exemplified in tlie history of condiments, that such articles as are, in the first instance, disagreeable to the palate are those for which we afterwards acquire the strongest partiality, and which even become necessary for our comfort; whereas the frequent repetition of flavours that are originally gratoful is very apt to produce a sense of satiety, or even of disgust.—Dr. Bostock's “ Pliarmacologia Clary : a plant of the same kind, and used as a flavour to different dishes.