224 TASMANIAN FISH firm ia Victoria lias had an agent here some two or three years who purchases and prepares fish of all descriptions—but principally, we believe, crayfish and dogfish, the latter not eaten with us—for his celestial brethren. We have not ventured to procure any of his recipes to enrich our book, not relishing the appearance of their so-called delicacies. Note.—The lovers of pisciculture will read wit'll interest the following pricis of the salmon question, as between the mother country and Tasmania, which has been obligingly- furnished the compiler by a gentleman connected with the official department through, which the arrangements have been made for the reception of the ova of the king of fish : Salmon in Tasmania.—Should the arrangements now in active operation by tho Tasmanian Government, through commissioners in the colony and friends and agents in England, for the introduction of salmon ova, prove successful, in a very few years our rivers and tributary streams will be abundantly stocked, and fisheries fully established throughout the island. In 1860 an unsuccessful though well-directed effort was made to introduce ova rid Melbourne to these waters. The experiment was entrusted to one well versed in pisci- •cultural matters, who failed, through no fault of his management. A second attempt in 1862, though under the charge of an able and experienced pisciculturist, Mr. Ramsbottom, Jun., a son of the celebrated Clitheroe, propagator of fish, also failed, owing to the unsuitable class of vessel in which the ova was shipped. A third trial is now being made, and there is no doubt entertained of its being carried to a prosperous issue. Previous experiments have added considerably to a better knowledge of the require- ments necessary to ensure complete success, and the information so acquired has, with subsequent discoveries, brought about the most satisfactory and promising results—results highly encouraging to all engaged or interested in so important an undertaking. It has been established, by actual tests, that the ova taken, at the proper season, from the parent fish can be hatched inboxes prepared for its reception, after being kept in ice 121 days; so that if a vessel freighted with ova in ice makes even a tardy or lengthened passage, the experiment can scarcely be endangered, unless, indeed, from the most adverse and unforeseen causes. It is expected that Mr. Ramsbottom, Jun., will leave England with his charge in all December, as no exertion has been spared to secure a suitable ship, with all necessary requirements and appliances. The vessel once in the Derwent, the ova will he immediately transferred to the arti- ficial breeding ponds prepared for its reception. Of these there are two sets, in different, but equally eligible, localities. The first is on the North West Bay River, situate in a most picturesque and beautifully wooded country, about fourteen miles from Hobart Town, and consists of two refining ponds, one 30 feet by 27 feet, and one 25 feet by 27 feet, sloping gradually towards the middle, and of an average depth of 4 feet; two breeding ponds, 28 feet by 3 feet each, sloping to a depth of about 6 inches, with protecting basins at different elevations con- nected by falls. These ponds are paved with channel stones, and are supplied with a continuous flow of the most pure water from the river, by covered trougliing, 20 chains in length, with sluices and movable gratings to regulate the supply which enters each pond by small feeders. The cutting from the breeding boxes debouches at once into coast water. Ponds of a like description have been constructed at the River Plenty, on the Derwent, about twenty-seven miles from the metropolis. Both these rivers are very fine streams, tortuous, and brisk running, with gravelly bottoms, admirably adapted for spawning beds, and possessing in numerous places deep pools, well shaded by rocky declivities and steeply-wooded banks. Practical judges have pronounced tbe coast and river waters of Tasmania to be in every way adapted for the propagation of salmon. Tbe temperature is much below tho maximum in which salmon cease to propagate; the thermal condition of our rivers not differing from those of the west and south of Ireland during the summer season in the latter country. , In order to the preservation of the fish, temporary provision has been made by Act cf Council to secure it against the depredations of man, and it is a pleasing fact that the breeding grounds selected and our rivers are much more free from its natural enemies than the rivers of Britain. “ The English and Australian Cookery Book” will, therefore, in its future editions, contain recipeB setting forth the antipodean mode of cooking, boiling, potting, broiling.