221 TASMANIAN FISH. Perch (white), or “ talking fish ”—2oz. to 8oz. Affords excellent sport to the angler. When pulled out of the water it utters two audible squeaks, hence its second name. It is a true perch in shape, but nearly as flat as a flounder; excellent eating, fried or boiled. Magpie fish—Jib. to lib. Marked with black and white bands, and spots resembling marble. Very good eating ; not common. Trevally or snotgall—Jib. to 61bs. This fish, in the estimation of con- noisseurs, is next to the trumpeter; by some it is pr eferred, not being so luscious. The flesh is firm and flaky ; boiled, fried, or smoked, it is equally good. . Mullet—3oz. to 1 Jib., the Tasmanian herring. The largest are usually caught with a rod and line, and the flesh is juicy and well- flavoured ; grilled or fried is the best way of cooking. The flavour is quite equal to the caller herring when caught by the angler, but they lose much of this when netted and heaped in large quan- tities in the boats for market. John Dory—Jib. to 21bs. A very handsome red fish, not very common ; good eating. There is another nondescript fish, with a head like a duck’s bill or platipus, body perch-shaped, called by this name, weight, from 51bs. upwards. Capital eating, but rarely captured in. the. nets. Gurnet—21bs. to 31bs. There are two sorts of this fish, one has scales, the other not: the head is formed of a series of bony plates ; both are good eatiDg. .<• Jew Fish—31bs. to 41bs. Not common, but a very good boiling fish. Snapper—lOlbs. to 121bs. Scarce here, only occasionally caught. 1 Parrot Fish—11b. to 31bs. Three or four varieties,’differently marked in various tints of colours resembling the feathers of the bird. All very handsome to look at, and good eating, but not often in the market. ... Salmon—Jib. to lfllbs. A coarse fish, in shape only resembling some- what its English namesake. At times it is not fit for human food, and numerous slight cases of fish poisoning have occurred from eating of it. The fishermen say it is when the moon is at the full, but we rather think that, like the English mackerel, if not cooked soon after it is caught it begins to putrefy. It is very plentiful, and from its cheapness much in demand with the poorer classes ; boiled with fennel, or soused in some of the liquor it was boiled in, with spice and vinegar, it forms a wholesome meal when in good order. Bream—lib. to 51bs. Very excellent eating; makes a good pie; par- ticularly the one called fresh-water, which is, in reality, the same fish, only caught at a different season. Bream pie was, with “the monks of old,” an esteemed luxury. A writer in Fraser laments that their recipe is lost. Whiting—2oz. to lib. Scarce, but very good eating.' Conger Eel—201bs. to an immense weight. Plemiful, but rarely sold in the market, people fancying they are sea-serpents or snakes. A