FISH. 94 fish. _ Trumpeter is good fried, and salted, and smoked; but the simple- boil is by far the most sensible mode of dressing this fish. Strangers visiting Tasmania invariably call for this fish, and they are to be had in reflection at the “ Ship, ” “Derwent,” and Webb's hotels, Hobart Town, kept by hosts Butler, Watkins, and Webb, who are sensibly alive to the propriety of its being well served. Why it was called trumpeter we cannot say; but, as the great bard ha3 it, “ there is nothing in a name.” All fish must be well and thoroughly cleansed; and, to do this effectually, they must he slitted sufficiently open to be properly washed. The flavour of fish is much im- proved by adding a little salt and vinegar to the last water through which they are passed. The sound milt and roe should he carefully cleaned and preserved. The latter made into patties are very superior, and duly appreciated by the gourmet. Persons of the old Hebrew faith are particular in the preparation of their food. They use salad oil in the frying of their fish, which is to be recommended. Crimping Salmon.—The fisb is first stunned by a blow on tbe bead, then cut cross-wise just below tbe gills, and crimped by cutting to the bone on each side, so as almost to divide him into slices. * He is next put into a cold spring for ten minutes, and then put slice by slice into a pot of salt and water, boiling furiously, time being allowed for the water to recover its heat after the throwing in of each slice; the head is left out, and the thickest pieces are thrown in first. The fat of the salmon, being mixed with much albumen and gelatine, is extremely liable to decompose, but is kept cool by the spring; and by tbe boiling salt and water, which is of a higher temperature than that of common boiling water, tbe albu- men is coagulated, and tbe curdiness is preserved ; and the crimping, by preventing the irritability of the fibre from being gradually exhausted, seems to preserve it so hard that it breaks under tbe teeth, while a fresh fish, if not crimped, is generally tough. This may improve small fish, but will cause a large, fine-fed fish to eat too dry and brittle. To choose crimped salmon, see that it rises at the edge of the cuts, and that the muscle is well contracted between them, which should develop the flakes, and appear firm and elastic.—Sir Humphry Davy. A Fish Dinner.—Tancred was going to give them a fish dinner! A what ? A sort of banquet, which might have served for the marriage feast of Neptune and Amphitrite, and be commemorated by a constellation, and which ought to have been administered by the Nereids and the Naiads ; tureens of turtle, pools of water souchet, flounders of every hue, and eels in every shape, cutlets of salmon, salmis of carp, ortolans repre- sented by whitebait, and huge roasts, carved out of the sturgeon.—The New Crusade. The attempts to introduce salmon into the Australian colonies have hitherto been unsuccessful, as the ova have died on the passage; but, by the last accounts, Mr. Toni, a Tasmanian gentleman resident in London, has made some experiments by pre- serving the ova in ice, and it fructified after being immersed in ice for one hundred and twenty days; so there is now every prospect of the fish being brought out success- fully. In France the piscicultural establishments are eminently successful; so much so that the price of salmon has been reduced there from three and four shillings to sixpence per pound: hut, as in days of yore, they manage these matters better in France. Whale Steaks.—In passing along the street we saw stiips of whale flesh, black and reddish-coloured, hanging outside the gable of almost every house to dry, just as we have seen herrings in fishing villages on our own coasts. When a shoal of whales is driven ashore by the boatmen, there are great rejoicings among the islanders, whose faces, we were told, actually shine for weeks after their season of feasting. What cannot be eaten at the time is dried for future use. Boiled or roasted it is nutritious, and not very unpalatable. The dried fish which I tasted resembled tough beef, with a flavour of venison. Being “ blood meat,” I would not have known it to he from the sea; and I have been told that, when fresh and properly cooked, tender steaks from a young