137 TEA. •tea from China and Java, a little less than half per cent, of their weight of theine. Dr. Stenhouse, in a recent investigation, obtained from 1-37 to 0-98 theine from 100 parts of tea. An accurate knowledge of the amount of the nitrogenous principles contained in tea being of the utmost importance, he first determined the total amount of nitrogen ■contained in the leaf, in order thus to have a safe guide when subse- quently isolating the substances between which this nitrogen is dis- tributed. On determining the nitrogen by M. Dumas’ process, he obtained the following numbers :— Nitrogen in 100 parts Tea dried at 230° Pekoe tea Gunpowder tea... Souchong tea ... Assam tea 6-58 6-15 6-15 5-10 This amount of nitrogen is far more considerable than has been detected in any vegetable hitherto analysed. These experiments prove, therefore, the existence of from 20 to 30 per cent, of nitrogenous sub- stances in tea, while former analyses scarcely carry the proportion to more than three or four hundredths. The observations of Liebig afford a satisfactory explanation of the cause of the great partiality of the poor, not only for tea, but for tea of an expensive and superior sort. At a meeting of the Academy of Sciences, in Paris, lately held, M. Peligot read a paper on the chemical combinations of tea. He stated that tea contained essential principles of nutrition, far exceeding in importance its stimulating properties, and showed that tea is, in every respect, one of the most desirable articles in general use. One of his experiments on the nutritious qualities of tea, as compared with those of soup, was decidedly in favour of the former. Black Tea.—Many years ago a spirited Chinese merchant, who, no doubt, saw well enough that black and green teas could be made easily from the same plant, had a crop of black teas made in the Ning-chow district, and brought to Canton for sale. This tea was highly approved of by the foreign merchants of that port, and was bought, I believe, by the house of Messrs. Dent and Co., and sent to England. When it got home, it found a ready sale in the market, and p,t once established itself a black tea of the first class. Year by year after this the demand for this tea steadily increased, and was readily supplied by the Chinese. At the present time the Hing-chow districts produce black tea only, while in former days they produced green. If proof were wanting, this would appear sufficient to show that black or green teas can be made from any variety of the tea plant, and that the change of colour in the manufac- tured article depends entirely on the mode of manipulation.—Fortune's “ Residence among the Chinese.” The Emperor Kienhong’s Imperial Edict for Drinking Tea (Translated by Sir John Barrow, in his “ Travels in China).—“ On a blow fire set a tripod, whose colour and texture show its long use; fill it with clear snow water; boil it as long as would be necessary to turn fish white, and crayfish red; throw it upon the delicate leaves of