GAME. 90 tallegalla (Tallegalla lalliami), which is not so plentiful as the bustard and smaller in size. Black Swan (Australia).—The cygnets of the black swan are dressed in the same manner as the white species. When young they are tender, and if properly roasted, with good sauce, they are eatable; and that is all we can say. The dun-bird, larks, ruffs and reeves, godwits, plovers, and wheatears, are all game and are dressed in the general way of roasting. Tainted Game.—To render tainted game fit for table use, wrap it in a cloth, so as to prevent any dust getting into it; when this has been done, put it in cold water, and throw in a fire-shovelful of hot charcoal. Allow the game to remain in the water for about five minutes. Take it out, and wipe dry. All the offensive smell will have been deodorised. Animal charcoal is superior to vegetable for this purpose. The game, as a matter of course, must be cooked instanter. Any kind of meat or fish may, by this simple process, be rendered fit for the palate, or it may be boiled with a little charcoal in the pot. A Thinking Judge.—When M. Brillat Savarin, judge of the Court of Cassation, and an amateur gastronomer, was in America, once, on his return from a shooting excursion, in which he shot a wild turkey, he fell into conversation with Jefferson, who began relating some interesting anecdotes about Washington and the war; when, observing the air distrait of M. Brillat Savarin, he stopped, and was about to go away. “ My dear sir,” said the gastronomer, “ I beg a thousand pardons, but I was thinking how I should dress my wild turkey.”—Quarterly Revieto. Salmis of Game.—Take off the legs, wings, and breasts of as many under-done partridges as you intend to use. Kemove the skin from them very carefully. Prepare a sauce as follows :—Put into a stewpan, with a bit of butter, a few slices of ham, four or five shalots, a dried carrot, a few mushrooms, a little parsley, sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, two cloves, three or four peppercorns, and some allspice. Fry the vegetables slightly, then add two wine-glassfuls of sherry, four or five spoonfuls of brown gravy, and a spoonful of mushroom ketchup. When these in- gredients are in the stewpan, add the parts of the bird not intended to be eaten, and let them simmer for a couple of hours; then season with pepper and cayenne ; skim off the fat and add a lump of sugar. When this is dissolved, strain this gravy over the wings, legs, and the breast of the partridge, which must be put into a clean saucepan. Let it simmer by the fire until the meat is saturated with the sauce, and serve with fried bread sippets. It will be seen that this fashionable salmis is a species of braise, a kind of hash of a recherche kind, and the French are iirst-rate hands at serving up this dish ; they use, with the same, Chablis wine, and the French mustard (mouturde de maille), diluted with Tarragon vinegar and a little oil. It is necessary that the game, whether pheasants, partridges, or woodcocks, should be under-done before put into the salmis, for birds done to rags are not eatable. Kangaroo dressed as a salmis is unexceptionable.