SOUPS. crusts of bread, a tea-spoonful of pepper, and a few blades of mace, also a handful of white beet leaves, cut small; let it simmer for an hour, and before serving, beat up and add the yolks of two eggs, and a table-spoonful of vinegar. Living- low occasionally is very preservative of health. Baglivi tells us that a large proportion of invalids in Italy invariably recover their strength during the period of Lent. Cock a Leekie.-—Boil four pounds of lean beef until the liquor is good. Take out the meat, and put into the soup a fowl cut into pieces, with half the quantity of leeks intended to be.used. Let it simmer; and half an hour before serving, add the remainder of the leeks, and the seasoning of pepper and salt. This was said to be a very favourite dish of James I., and was in great request by our Scotch friends at the last London Exhibition. G-ravy Soup.—Cut half a pound of ham, or the same quantity of lean bacon, into slices, and lay them at the bottom of a digester, with six pounds of lean beef, cut into pieces. Clean two onions, two turnips, and two carrots, and a head of celery, a few cloves, and a blade of mace. Cover the digester close, and set it over the fire; when the meat adheres to the bottom of the digester, turn it; and when there is a brown glaze on the meat, cover with hot water; and when coming to a boil, put in half a pint of cold water, take off the scum, then put in some more cold water, and again skim it; set it aside to simmer for full three hours. When done, strain it through a tamis, turn it into a pan; and, when cold, take off the fat. If thick, it must be clarified with the whites of two eggs. This stock is the basis of nil gravy soups, which are called by name of the vegetables that are put into them. Potatoes mashed, carrots, turnips, onions, asparagus, arti- choke, green peas, celery, or a mixed vegetable soup; or you may add rice, barley (Scotch), maccaroni, or vermicelli. Onion soup is more agreeable to the stomach than any other. “ Palestine soup ! ” said the Rev. Dr. Opiman, dining with his friend Squire Gryll; “ a curiously complicated misnomer! We have an excellent old vegetable, the arti- choke, of which we eat the head; we have another, of subsequent introduction, of which we eat the root, and which we also call artichoke, because it resembles the first iu flavour, although, me judicc, a very inferior affair. This last is a species of the helian- thus, or sunflower genus, of the sxjngenesia fntctianea class of plants. It is, therefore, a girasol, or turn-to-the-sun. Prom this girasol we have made Jerusalem, and from the Jerusalem artichoke we make Palestine soup.”—“ Gryll Grange,” in Frazer. Soup Julienne.—Cut up small, carrots, turnips, and celery heads, onions, and leeks, and put them into a stewpan, with a little butter. Then add to them lettuces, sorrel, and celery, cut in pieces. To these vegetables put sufficient stock, and simmer until the vegetables are wed done. Serve with or without bread. Soup a la Mousquetaire.—Boil in a pint of stock a pint of green peas and a handful of sorrel; add a quart of water, and boil a few pounds of mutton in it, which, when done, glaze as a fricandeau, and serve together. Maria Louisa’s Consomme,—In about two quarts of water put two pounds of lean beef, cut in slices, a fowl divided, two large carrots, two