2G5 EDIBLE FOOD. our coasts, are regularly sought for in other seas, and publicly exposed for sale in the markets. As in ancient times, these mollusks constitute now, on the shores of the zEgean, a valuable part of the food of the poor, by whom they are chiefly used. Hence the imprecation of the chorus, who, calling down on their victim the extremity of ill-fortune, desired that he might be reduced to a single cuttle-fish, and that a dog might come and snatch this last poor morsel from him, would be as well appre- ciated in a modern Greek coffee-house as among the original admirers of Aristophanes. The Romans, if we may judge from the culinary recipes of Apicius, regarded a cuttle-fish with more respect. “We can ourselves,” says Professor Forbes, “ bear testimony to their excellence; when beaten, to render the flesh tender, before being dressed, and then cut up into morsels, and served in a savoury brown stew, it makes a dish by no means to be despised; excellent in both substance and flavour.” A modern Lycian dinner, in which stewed cuttle-fish formed the first, and roast porcupine the second course, would scarcely fail to be relished by an unprejudiced epicure in search of novelty. In the southern part of the United States, one species of crab is particularly valued just after having oast its shell and before the new one has become hard. It is thus referred to in “ Hochelaga : ”—“ Among the delicacies of the sea, the soft crab is in great request; he is much like ours in shape, but wears only a silken doublet instead of a coat of mail, and, consequently, can be carved and eaten without the trouble of undressing him. It is, however, at only certain seasons of the year that his costume is suitable.” This crab might seem sufficient to tempt an epicure. Another jointed or articulated animal is, to our ideas, the very reverse of tempting, yet so capricious is human taste that Indian children have been seen by Humboldt, “ to draw out from the earth, and eat, millipedes, or scolopendras, eighteen inches long and seven lines broad.” Many insects, properly so called, are used in the different states as food for man. The grub of the palm-weevil has long been in request in both Indies, and, when roasted, is considered very delicious. So, also, is the grub of a species of ceramboyx, which is eaten at Surinam, in America, and in the West Indies. The locust tribe, as they are the greatest destroyers of food, furnish, in return, a considerable supply of it to many nations. They are ground by the Arabs, made into cakes, and baked like bread ; they are also boiled and then stirred with butter into a fricassee. Sparman informs us, that the Hottentots are highly rejoiced at the arrival of the locusts in their country, although they destroy all the verdure, eating them in such vast quantities as to get visibly fatter than before, and making of their eggs a brown or coffee-coloured soup. Clenard, in his letters quoted by Bochart, says that they bring wagon-loads of locusts to Fez, as a usual article of food. Perhaps no insects have been more celebrated than the cicadas ; the ode addressed to one by Anacreon would, of itself, be suffi- cient to insure for it an immortality of fame. They belong to the tribe tettigonia; and, from the time of Homer, who compares the garrulity of age to the chirping of these insects, they have been celebrated by the poets. It is a curious fact that the polished Greeks nevertheless did not