70 WATER. from the area of roof available. The mean quantity of water that falls- yearly in the world is about thirty-four inches, so says Dr. Thomson. The superficies of the roof have only to be calculated, and the supply may be known with great accuracy. In such cases water rates are unnecessary, and you obtain a purer supply. The city of Venice, with an immense population, is thus supplied. Surely, then, the expense of a few pounds would well repay the inestimable boon of having on hand a large quantity of this most necessary blessing of life. The Cisterns of Venice.—The collection ancl preservation of water are becoming of national importance. Tlie inhabitants of Venice (120,000), placed in the midst of a salt lake, communicating with the sea, derive their supply of water from the atmosphere. The greatest part of the rain is collected in 2,077 cisterns, of which 177 are public, and 1,900 belong to private houses. As these cisterns may serve as models, a detailed account, furnished to M. Grimaud by M. Saloxdori, the engineer of the municipality of Venice, has been laid before the French Academy of Sciences, and is printed in their “ Comptes Rendus.” An excavation is made in the earth, in the form of a reversed truncated pyramid, to the depth of three metres (nearly ten feet), the earth being sup- ported by walls of oak or other strong wood, on which is laid a thoroughly compact layer of clay, great care being taken to exclude ah'. At the bottom is placed a circular stone, hollowed in the middle,- on this is put a hollow cylinder (like an ordinary well), constructed of dried bricks, well adjusted, those at the bottom only being pierced with conical holes. The space round the cylinder is filled with well-washed sea sand. At the four corners at the top are put four stone boxes, with stone lids pierced with holes. These boxes rest upon the sand. The rain from the roofs of the houses falls into these- boxes, and, after filtering through the sand, enters the hollow cylinder, and then becomes a limpid water, pure to the last drop.—Illustrated London News. Natural Water Purifiers.—Mr. Warrington has for a year past kept twelve gallons of water in a state fit admirably balanced purity by the action of two gold fish, six water snails, and two or three specimens of that elegant aquatic plant known as balis perca sporalis. Before the water snails were introduced, the decayed of the voluperia caused a growth of slimy mucus, which made the water turbid, and threat- ened to destroy both plants and fish. But under the improved arrangement, the slime, as fast as it is engendered, is consumed by the water snails, which reproduce it in the shape of young snails, whose tender bodies again furnish a succulent to the fish; while the voluperia plants absorb the carbonic acid exhaled by the respiration of then- companions, fixing the carbon in the growing stems and luxuriant blossoms, and refreshing the oxygen — during sunshine, in visible little streams — for the respiration of the snails and the fish. The spectacle of perfect equilibrivun thus sim- ply maintained between animal, vegetable, and inorganic activity, is stinking and beautiful; and such means may possibly hereafter be made available on a large scale for keeping tank water clean and sweet.—Quarterly Review. Rain fall in Ireland.—Ton would hardly believe what a rainy country Ireland is. I have here statistics as to the rain fall of Ireland, and I find we have actually had in 1862, 221 days—rather more than seven months—of rain in Ireland.—Sir Robert Peel. Rain Water.—The cottage of the writer is covered with corrugated iron, with felt under as a non-conductor of heat. The rain water is led by spouting into iron tanks, and it is always as pure and pellucid as it is possible to be, without any filtration. There is more water on the premises than can be consumed, without the payment of rates, or the trouble of drawing it from a stream or well, and every house can be thus easily supplied. Dr. E. S. Hall, in his paper on “ The Climate and Health of Tas- mania,” pubhshed at the last London Exhibition, states that, for the last seven years, the number of days in which rain fell in Tasmania has been recorded; the mean of six years being 137'63; but 1861 had 167 rainy days, being eight more than 1859, pre- viously the highest.