285 THE LAST DINNER. Madeira carried it against hock, claret, Burgundy, and champagne; stews, hashes, and ragouts grew into favour; crusts were rarely called for to relish the cheese after dinner ; conversation was less boisterous, and it turned chiefly upon politics and the state of the funds, or the value of landed property ; apologies were made for coming in thick shoes and warm, stockings; the doors and windows were more carefully provided with list aud sand-bags; the fire is in more request; and a quiet game of whist filled up the hours that were wont to be devoted to drinking and riotous merriment. Two rubbers, a cup of coffee, and at home by eleven o’clock, was the usual cry, when the fifth or sixth glass had gone round after the removal of the cloth. At parting, too, there was now a long ceremony in the hall—buttoning up great coats, tying on woollen com- forters, fixing silk handkerchiefs over the mouth and up to the ears, and grasping sturdy walking-canes, to support unsteady feet. “ Their fiftieth anniversary came, and death had, indeed, been busy. Four little old men, of withered appearance and decrepid walk, with cracked voices, and dim, rayless eyes, sat down, by the mercy of Heaven (as they tremulously declared), to celebrate, for the fiftieth time, the first day of the year—to observe the frolic compact which, half a century before, they had entered into at the Star and Garter, at Richmond. Eight were in their graves! the four that remained stood upon its con- fines! Yet they chirped cheerily over their glass, though they could scarcely carry it to their lips if more than half full; and cracked their jokes, though they articulated their words with difficulty, and heard each other with still greater difficulty. They mumbled, they chattered, they laughed (if a sort of strangled wheezing might be called a laugh) ; and, as the wine sent their icy blood in warmer pulses through their veins, they talked of their past as if it were but a yesterday that had slipped by them, and of their future as if it were a busy century that lay before them. “ At length came the last dinner ; and the survivor of the twelve, upon whose head fourscore and ten winters had showered their snow, ate his solitary meal. It so chanced that it was in his house and at his table they celebrated the first; in his cellar, too, had remained, for more than fifty years, the bottle they had then uncorked, re-corked, and which he was that day to fincc *k again. It stood beside him. With a feeble and Teluctant grasp he took the 1 frail memorial ’ of a youthful vow, and, for a moment, memory was faithful to her offn e. She threw open the long vista of buried years, and his heart travelled through them all. Their lusty and blithesome spring, their bright aud fervid summer, their ripe and temperate autumn, their chill, but not too frozen winter. He saw, as in a mirror, one by one the laughing companions of that merry hour at Richmond, had dropped into eternity. He felt the loneliness of his condition, for he had eschewed marriage, and in the veins of no living creature ran a drop of blood whose source was in his own; and as he drained the glass which he had filled, ‘ to the memory of those who were gone,’ the tears slowly trickled down the deep furrows of his aged face. “ He had thus fulfilled one part of his vow, and he prepared himself