54 PUDDINGS AND PIES. in sugar and water before they are put into the pudding or tart. The pudding will be made from short crust, and the tart from either short or flaky crust, the directions for making which appear elsewhere. The apricots may be taken and put into the tart or pudding with a small quantity of syrup. The Quarterly, an excellent authority on matters relating to the cuisine (except as to saw-dust bread and clasp knives), and from whose valuable pages we have liberally ex- tracted, informs us that a green apricot pudding is the best article in the pastry line that can possibly be made ; and we defer to that opinion, with considerable doubts in favour of cold gooseberry tart, with cream cul libitum. Apple Puddings and Pies—These kind of puddings and pies are, after plum puddings, also a national dish. The sort of fruit for cookery, according to all writers on pomology, should be juicy, full of flavour, and apt to pulp when done. The crust for puddings and pies we have given elsewhere, and in using the fruit a little lemon is an improvement to their flavour, or a few quinces cut up. They are served with cream and white sugar; in truth, we hardly know anything better than a nice apple dumpling made properly. The editor of “ Hints for the Table” states a fact that we are desirous of giving further publicity to, in the hope that it will receive attention from those of the fair sex now living in “ single blessedness.” It is,, that once upon a time “a clever man chose his wife by making an apple pudding.” Who can doubt his sense and discern- ment ? Love at first sight will become exploded, and love at first taste -will now take its place. The drapery misses—that is, ladies furnished, on credit, with articles of attire, to be repaid on marriage—will fall into desuetude, and those young ladies who can work into proper shape an apple pudding will most properly he in request at the temple of Hymen. Currant Dumplings.—For each dumpling take three'table-spoonfuls of flour, two of finely-minced beef suet, and two of currants; a little salt, and as much milk or water as will make a batter of the ingredients. Tie in a well-floured cloth, and boil for an hour. They can be served plain, or with sweet sauce. They may he made thick and boiled separately with meat without a cloth. Marrow Pudding.—Grate a penny loaf into crumbs, pour on it a pint of boiling cream, or milk. Cut very thin a pound of beef marrow ; beat four eggs well; add a wineglass of brandy or sherry, with sugar and nutmeg to taste. Mix all well together, and either boil or bake for three-quarters of an hour. Cut two ounces of candied citron thin, and, when served up, stick the pieces all over it. Light Dumplings.—We are not going to give a recipe for yeast dumplings; but, instead, we shall describe dumplings made from Jones’s patent flour, which are not quite so light, but far more wholesome and digestible. Mix lightly Jones’s patent flour, with milk (cold) or water, and as soon as mixed put them into boiling water ; when done, take out, and serve, with melted butter and sweet sauce. They won’t take much more than five minutes boiling. Yeast dumplings are made in n similar way, only allowing them to rise after the flour, salt, and lukewarm water are mixed. Souffle de Pomme do Terre.—Take a pint of cream, a quarter of a