18 BROILING. Bubble and Squeak.—Cold salt meat is slightly fried in a pan, and cold cabbage is warmed, after having been cut into pieces, and a little salt and pepper put on it. The fried cabbage is then dished up, and garnished with the beef. It is desirable that the boiled beef should be rather under- done, before it is again warmed through in the pan. Bubble and squeak is said to be a favourite dish in Shropshire. The late George IV. partook of it in that county, and this homely dish was afterwards often seen on the table of Carlton House. Fried Bread Crumbs.—Bub stale bread through a colander, put them in a pan, with two ounces of butter, place them over a moderate fire, and stir them with a wooden spoon, until they are slightly brown. Spread them on a sieve to drain. Pried bread criunbs are served with game of any kind, and sometimes with roasted, poultry. Fried Parsley may be -dressed in a similar way to bread crumbs, and is a garnish for chops, fish, &c. Fried Bread Sippets.—Cut slices of stale bread thin, into any shape you wish, put in a pan, and fry of a delicate brown; take them out of ithe pan and drain them. Pried bread sippets are an accompaniment to any made dishes, and they are also sent to the table with pease, and other soups. Wise Counsel.—I beseech all persons who shall read this work, not to degrade themselves to a level with the brutes or the rabble, by gratifying their sloth, or by eat- ing and drinking promiscuously whatever pleases their palates, or by indulging their appetites of every kind. But whether they understand physic or not, let them consult their reason, and observe what agrees, and what does not agree with them, that, like wise men, they may adhere to the use of such things as conduce to their health, and forbear everything which, by their owu experience, they find do them hurt; and let them be assured that, by a diligent observation and practice of tbis rule, they may enjoy a good share of health, and seldom stand in need of physic or physicians.—Galen’s Trea- tise on Health. VII—BROILING. The wholesomest cookery is broiling, in which the portion of the meat is of no great thickness, and its fibre is cut across. The action of heat upon the divided fibre and the connecting tissue renders the texture more penetrable, and from the cut surface the melted fat easily exudes.—Mayo. Broiled Chops and Steaks.—Cut the chops a little over half an inch thick, broil them over a clear fire until done, turning them -with the beef-steak tongs—about three times—pollute them not with a fork; sprinkle pepper and salt over them in moderation. Serve hot. An oleaginous feeder would prefer butter being put over them when done, but "a real judge will eat them au naturel. A great novelist suggests tomato sauce, but many prefer minced shalot. Beef-steaks are dressed on the gridiron in the same way, and cut about the same thickness. A chop or a steak properly cooked on the grill, over a clear fire, is a favourite