214 DINNER PARTIES. might be taken as a model by all the railway refreshment rooms of the kingdom. Home News. Hints to Emigrants.—Married women, more deeply versed in ball-room gossip than in the arts of boiling and frying, should set their faces against emigration, unless they intend to turn over a new leaf. Unmarried girls may emigrate, but they must condescend to become useful as well as agreeable. Many good, honest settlers have been ruined by having fine ladies for wives.—Thomson’s “New Zealand XC.—DINNER PARTIES IN THE SIXTEENTH AND SEVENTEENTH CENTURIES. So soon as dinner’s done, we’ll forth again.—Timon of Athens. When a feast is made ready, we are told, “ the table is covered with a carpet and a table-cloth by the waiters, who, besides, lay the trenchers, spoons, knives and little forks, table-napkins, bread, with a salt-cellar. Messes are brought in platters, a pie in a plate. The guests being brought in by the host, wash their hands out of a laver or ewer, over a hand-basin or bowl, then they near the table on the chairs. The carver breaketh up the good cheer and divideth it. Sauces are amongst roast meat in saucers. The butler filleth strong wine out of a cruise, or wine- pot, or flagon, into cups or glasses, which stand on a cupboard, and he reacheth them to the master of the feast, who drinketk to his guests.”— Wright's Domestic Manners and Sentiments. A Kiclimond Dinner Three Hundred Years Ago.—We find, in the Lansdowne manuscripts, that about Christmas, 1509, certain officials of the court of King Henry VIII. dined together at the village of Shene, now called Richmond, and that, at the end of the entertain- ment, my host of the “ Star and Garter,” with many salutations, handed to them the following bill For brede ... 12d. Ale ... ... ... 3s. 4d. Wyue lOd. Two lignes moton 8d. Maribones (id. Powdered beef 5d. Two capons 2s. Two geese 14d. Five conyes 15d. One legge moton 4d. Six plovers 18d. —Hints for the Table. Six pegions 5d. Two dozen larkes 12d. Salt and sauce ... 6d. Buter and eggs ... ... lOd. Warden and guyees ... 12d. Herbes Id. Spices 2s. 4d. Floure 4d. White cuppes and cruises (id. Amounting to one pound sterling. Primitive Cookery.—The science of cookery was in a primitive state among the New Zealanders, for, being destitute of vessels capable of resisting fire, the cookery of the whole race, except those being near the boiling springs of Rotoma and Taupo, was limited to steaming and roasting. The former was done in an oven, made by digging a hole in the ground, according to the size of the banquet, into which burning firewood, and stones about the size of an orange, were put, and then covered slightly over. When