72 BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES. slowly: or the ingredients may be made flat and round, without being put into shins, and cooked in that manner, after being mixed with beaten eggs, in order to bind the meat together. Oxford Sausages.—Take one pound and a half of pig meat, cut from the griskins, without any skin ; half a pound of veal, and a pound and a half of beef suet. Mince these meats very finely, then mix them with a dessert-spoonful of powdered sage, pepper, and salt, to taste, and the wrell-beaten yolks and whites of four eggs. The whole should be well beaten together, as much depends on the mixing.—Theodore Hook in “ Peter Prig gins." French. Sausages.—The meat is cut into pieces and rubbed with garlic. It is then put in a mortar and pounded until it becomes a paste, when it is sprinkled with brown sugar, and worked up again. It is now worked up with the following ingredients :—Two parts of salt, and one of saltpetre, are well pounded with allspice, mace, and white pepper, and a small quantity of preserved bay-leaf. The meat being now laid on the table, and rolled out, strips of lard are laid on it with peppercorns. The sausages are then rolled, placed in pickled chitterlings, tied very tight at each end, and hung up to dry. They have a fragrant taste, which, and their tenderness, as they are not boiled, make3 them particularly piquante and recherche. Sausage Foils are an excellent variety of relish, which is merely the sausage meat enveloped in paste, in any shape you wish; but we say again, beware of those ready made, unless you know where and by whom. An American Cook—Aunt Chloe.—A cook slie certainly was, in tlie very bone and centre of her soul. Not a chicken, a turkey, or duck in the barn-yard but looked grave when they saw her approaching, and seemed evidently to be reflecting on their latter end; and certain it was that she was always meditating on trussing, stuffing, and roasting, to a degree that was calculated to inspire terror in any reflecting fowl living. Her corn-cake, in aU its varieties of hoe-cakes, dodgers, muflins, and other species too numerous to mention, was a sublime mystery to aU less practised com- pounders ; and she would shake her fat sides with honest pride and merriment, as she would narrate the fruitless efforts that one and another of her compeers had made to attain her elevation.—Unde Tom’s Cabin. XXIV.—BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES. One of the most important, if not altogether the most important article of food, unquestionably is bread; and although barley, oats, and other cereals are sometimes used by the baker, wheat is the grain which is best fitted for the manufacture of that article, not only on account of the larger amount of gluten or nitrogeneous matter which it contains, and that can only be found in other edible grains, but also on account of the almost exact balance in which the nitrogeneous and non-nitrogeneous constituents exist in that cereal, and owing to which it is capable of ministering to all the requirements of the human frame, and of being assimilated at once, and without effort to our organs; whence the name of the “ Staff of Life,” which is often given to it, wheat being like milk, a perfect food.—Ure. To Make Bread.—The following is said to be a good bread recipe: Pat a bushel of flour into a kneading trough. Mix a pint of yeast