III.—ROASTING. Antiphohis of Syracuse: I’ll make you amends next, to give you nothing for something. But say, sir, is it dinner time ? Dromio of Syracuse: No, sir; I think the meat wants that I have. Antiphohis: In good time, sir; what’s that ? Dromio: Basting. AntipholusWell, sir, then ’twill he dry. Dromio: If it be, sir, I pray you to eat none of it. Antipholus: Tour reason ? Dromio : Lest it make you choleric, and purchase me another dry basting. Antipholus : Well, sir, learn to jest in good time: there is a time for all things. Comedy of Errors. Boast Beef.—King Charles II. is said to have honoured this joint Vrith the accolade of knighthood, and hence the term of Sir-Loin. Our Second Charles, of fame facete, On loin of beef did dine; He held his sword, pleas’d, o’er the meat, “Arise, thou famed Sir-Loin.” Sir John Barleycorn’s Ballad. There is no act in cookery so simple as roasting, and yet how few can do it properly! Over-done meat is equally unwholesome as that which is under-done. The art is to seize the juste milieu, and roast the beef without losing the gravy or scorching the outside. Ten pounds of the sirloin will take about two hours and a half, but it is impossible to indicate the time accurately. The joint must at first be put at a distance from the fire, which must be brisk and clear. As the meat warms, it must be brought nearer. During the time it is roasting it must be well basted; the fat must be paper-covered. When nearly done dredge it with flour, and, a few minutes before you take it up, sprinkle some salt on it. Put horseradish round the dish, and serve with its own gravy, quite devoid of fat, and you have in perfection “ the roast beef of old England, oh! ” The flesli of the ox is wholesome and nutritious, and well adapted to persons of good appetite, or that labour or take exercise. For persons labouring under debility it is superior to all other animal food. If not over-done, and left full of gravy, it sits lightly on the stomach, and its fao is more digestible than veal. Dr. Paris tells us, with a warning, that experience,' dearly bought, has taught us that headache, flatulency, hypochondriasis, and a thousand namelebs ills, have arisen from the too prevailing fashion of loading our tables with that host of French entremets and hors d’ceuvres which have so unfortunately usurped the roast beef of old England. Boast Beef.—I was soon in great hunger and confusion, when I thought I smelled the agreeable savour of roast beef; but could not tell from which dish it arose, though I did not question but it lay disguised in one of them. Upon turning my head, I saw a noble sirloin of beef on the side table, smoking in the most delicious manner. I had recourse to it more than once, and could not see without some indignation that sub- stantial English dish banished in so ignominious a manner to make way for French kick- shaws.—The Tatler, 148. Plank of Beef Boasted.—Take a flank of beef and roll up very tight,