DRINKS. 278 Brando writes tint liquor in which borage itself is plunged, when fresh, becomes cooled and hence the borage officinalis is the principal ingredient in a cool tankard. Capiilaire, according to Brande, is a simple syrup, or a concentrated solution of sugar in water, flavoured with orange-flower water and some similar aromatic. The name is derived from the mucilaginous syrup formerly directed to be made of the Canadian maidenhair (Adiantiun capillus veneris). It is diluted with ice-water for use. Spider : brandy and lemonade, or brandy and ginger-beer. Cocktail: brandy, aniseed-water, and sugar. Summer Drinks (From the Field: the Country Gentleman’s Newspaper).—Amongst the numerous prescriptions for summer drinks in the Field, I have never observed one which, as a beverage to work upon, is entitled to a prominent place, i. e., cold tea, flavoured witli sliced lemon and dashed with cognac. The tea should be properly made, not allowed to stand until it becomes rank, but boiling water should be poured on the leaves, allowed to stand five minutes, then poured into a jug with slices of lemon at the bottom. A wine-glass of good brandy added when cool, sugar to taste (of course), no milk.—H. Some one in the Field, a week or two since, asked for recipes for cider cup, &c. Several were sent for other things, but not for cider cup, so I send him one I bad from a certain college some years since, no less famed for learning than good living:—Mix together two quarts of best bottled cider—old, if possible—sweeten to taste, taking care that the sugar is perfectly melted. Add half a nutmeg grated, a glass of brandy, a glass of noyeau, cut a lemon in moderately thin slices, and let them remain there. Make it two hours before wanted, and stand it in some ice. There is no better recipe than the above.—A Taker in of the “Field.” Eecipes for Wine Gup.—Moselle Cup: No. 1. To each bottle of still or sparkling Moselle add one bottle of soda-water, a glass of sherry or brandy, four or five thin slices of pineapple, the peel of half a lemon cut very thin, and powdered sugar according to taste ; let the whole stand about an hour, and before serving add some lumps of clear ice. No. 2 as No. 1, except the pineapple, for which substitute a pint of fresh strawberries, or three or four peaches or nectarines. No. 3 as No. 1, but add instead of fruit some sprigs of woodruffe; woodruffe is an herb much used on the Rhine for making “May drank,” its peculiar flavour being most powerful in May ; it is to be found in forests in many parts of England also. No. 4. When neither fruit nor woodruffe can be obtained, add instead of sherry or brandy a glass or two of milk punch or essence of punch, and a little more of the lemon-peel.—lihenish Cup: No. 1. “May Trank” is the most popular beverage on the Rhine. Take with each bottle of light hock about a dozen sprigs of woodruffe, a quarter of an orange cut in small slices, and about two ounces of powdered sugar. The herbs are to be removed after having been in the wine half an hour or longer, according to taste. A bottle of sparkling wine added to four cr five bottles of still hock, is a great improvement. A little ice is recommended. No. 2. Instead of woodruffe and orange, take to each bottle of hock about half a pint of highly-flavoured strawberries. Sugar as above. The fruit is to be taken with the wine after having been in it about a nhour. No. 3. Take some thin slices of pineapple instead of the strawberries. No. 4. Take to each bottle of hock two highly- flavoured peaches peeled and cut in slices. Sugar as above.—Claret Cup: No. 1. To each bottle of ordinary claret add a bottle of soda-water, a