DRINKS. •270 a gallon of boiling water, and a wine-glass of sherry wine. Mix, strain, •and cool. A very wholesome and excellent cooling drink in hot weather; none more healthful. Appleacle.—Cut apples in slices—the more juicy the better—and pour on them boiling water ; strain and sweeten. To be cooled with ice. Apricots, peaches, and raspberries may be similarly treated, and they make a pleasant summer beverage. Pine-appleadc, strawberryade, currantade, and, in fact, any description of fruit may be made into a summer drink, partaking of the flavour of the ingredients U3ed, and they may either be cooled or iced. Hippocras.—Add half a drachm of mace, giuger, cloves, and nut- megs to three quarts of Lisbon wine; also cinnamon. Let it stand for a few days, when strain, and add twenty ounces of white sugar to the liquor. This is an old and favourite drink, aud invariably given at weddings. Sack, hippocras now, and burnt brandy. Are drinks as warm and good as can be. Poor Robin’s Almanac, 1696. Imperial Pop.—Take three ounces of cream of tartar, an ounce of bruised ginger, a pound and a half of white sugar, an ouuce of lemon- juice ; pour a gallon and a half of boiling water on them, and, when cool, add two table-spoons of yeast; strain and bottle. Lait Sucre.—Boil a pint of milk, sweeten with white sugar, and flavour with lemon. * Mountain Dew: Whisky G-lenlevit, clandestinely distilled in the Highlands of Scotland, and potteen spirit, made in a similar manner in Ireland, both having a peculiar smoky taste, which no lawful distillery can give. Ferintosh Whisky. — Tbe word Ferintosh signifies thanes’ land, it having been part of tbe thanedom of Cawdor (Macbeth’s), or Calder. Tbe barony of Ferintosh belonged to the Forbeses of Culloden, and contained about 1,800 acres of arable land. All barley produced on this estate was privileged to be converted into whisky duty free, the natural consequence of which was that more whisky was distilled in Ferintosh than in all the rest of Scotland. In 1781 Government made a sort of compulsory purchase of this privilege from the Culloden family, after they had enjoyed it a complete century. The sum paid was £21,500.—Things Not Generally Known. Ginger-beer.—One gallon of boiling water, one pound of loaf sugar, one ounce of best ginger, bruised, one ounce of cream of tartar, or a sliced lemon. Stir them until the sugar is dissolved. Let it remain until it cools to the heat of milk, then add a table-spoonful of good yeast. Cover and let it stand for twenty-four hours. Bottle it, not filling the bottles. Cork well and tie down, and it will be ready for use in two days. Cost, a halfpenny per bottle and the trouble of making. Ginger-beer (Family JRecipe).—Best white sugar, five pounds; lemon-juice, a quarter of a pint; bruised ginger, five ounces; honey^a quarter of a pound ; water, four gallons and a half. Boil the ginger m