99 Fisn. sauce with flour, and put into it two table-spoonfuls of port wine, and one of ketchup; let it simmer for about ten minutes; then pour on the fish. Tlie Kennett swift, for silver eels renown’d; The Lodden slow, with verdant alders crowdd. Pope. Eels are very good plain fried, or made into a pie; indeed, any land of fish made into a pudding or pie is excellent, only the cwisinier must not omit the gravy or thickening, and a little acid is an improvement. The muddy taste of fish may he obviated by par- boiling them in salt and water. The conger-eel, stewed in brown gravy, with a pudding in its belly, or dressed in cutlets, is first-rate; and eel or fish pies, when baked, should have the top crust removed, and be filled up with cream, which will amalgamate -with the gravy and make good sauce. Fish Soup (Another Recipe).—Under the head of “ Soups ” we have git en one recipe for making fish soup, but we have now to glean another one. Take about five pounds of fish—assorted kinds—cut them into pieces, and fry until half done ; then place them in a boiler, in about a quart of water or weak broth, having first seasoned the pieces of fish with cayenne, common pepper, and salt, a bundle of sweet herbs, and parsley ; let the whole stew for about three hours, so that all the goodness may be extracted from the fish. Whilst stewing, fry a couple of onions, well coated with flour, in the fat the fish was previously fried in, then put them into the soup; thicken it with a little flour and butter, and ketchup, soy, and sauce. Strain the contents through a hair sieve, and, when cold, take off the fat. When wanted for use, warm it up, and add macaroni or vermicelli. To Stew Lobsters the Irish Way.—Cut and break a boiled lobster, but not into small pieces, then, having ready, prepare a mixture of mustard and vinegar, seasoned with cayenne; put this, with the lobster, and a good-sized piece of butter, into a stewpan ; keep the cover close for about five minutes, then put in a glass of sherry or madeira, and let it boil for about five minutes more ; then serve it up, garnished with sliced lemon. In Ireland this savoury meal is often prepared in the same apart- v“ ment in which it is eaten, being cooked in a machine called a dispatcher, which has a spirit lamp under it, and is dressed in the presence of the company, whose appetites are greatly excited by the agreeable odour it emits whilst the cooking process is progressing. Mr. Michael Angelo Titmarsh, in his “ Irish Sketch-book,” speaks in the highest terms of this dish; he also informs us that porter is drank with it, and whisky punch afterwards.—“ Fish” by Piscator. Other Fish.—We have not entered into the detail of dressing the various other kinds of fish—soles, haddock, ling, red and grey mullet, shad, tench, trout, gudgeons—the latter are said to come up to the smelt in flavour if properly fried—pike, carp, perch, and gurnard. The Quarterly has it that the former fish, if bled in the tail and gills when taken, die much whiter, which is a comfort to themselves, and that they look better at table. Mackerel must not be washed, but wiped dry. The plaice, when in good order, is a delicious fish. The basse was extolled of old, and is in favour in Cornwall. The skate must be kept to n 2