5 SOUPS. unions, a bay leaf, and two cloves. Let it simmer for six hours; skim off the fat, and serve. This was a favourite dish of the late Empress, and has been called after her. With George III. and George IY. a vermicelli soup, with a few green chervil leaves in it, was caid to be a pet potage. Beef Tea, or Brown Gravy.—When one pound of lean beef, free from fat, and separated from the bones, in the finely-chopped state in which it is used for sausages or mincemeat, is uniformly mixed with its own weight of cold water, then slowly heated to boiling, and the liquid, after boiling briskly for a minute or two, is strained through a sieve, from the coagulated albumen and the fibrin, which are then become hard and horny, we obtain an equal weight of the most aromatic soup, of such strength as can be had even by boiling for hours from a piece of flesh ; also when mixed with salt, and other additions by which soup is usually seasoned, and tinged somewhat darker by means of roasted onions, or burnt sugar, it forms the very best soup that can be prepared from a piece of flesh.—Liebig. The above eminent chemist states that beef tea, or essence of beef, might be made at a small cost in Australia, and advantageously imported into Europe. Salted beef could be as easily cured for the Royal Navy in Australia at a great saving. Oyster Soup.—Put the liquor of a hundred oysters into a stewpan, with a quart of new milk, and the same quantity of water ; season with pepper and salt, with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter and flour ; let this boil for a short time, after which set it to cool; then beard the oysters, and add them to the liquid, and let them boil for two minutes. A little nutmeg and mace may be added. The oyster soup we would recommend' is with a less quantity of oysters, with no milk or butter, added to a tureen-full of weak stock or broth. The flavour and goodness of the oysters are then obtained, without so much oleaginous matter. Soups made of game are generally very good sort of things. Kangaroo, hare, partridge, pheasant, and grouse soups are excellent, and the Scotch are first-rate hands in making /■he latter, for they stew down six or seven brace for a stock, and add beside a young grouse for each person at the table. Some persons prefer the game added to veal, beef, -or mutton stock, with the necessary adjuncts in the shape of spice, pepper, salt, anti a little port or claret wine. Fish Soup.—Take a sufficient quantity of fish of the kind you have for the soup, cut into pieces, and put into a stewpan, with two quarts of veal, beef, or mutton broth ; add a few slices of lean ham, two or three carrots, onions, and heads of cc’ery, some sweet herbs, salt, and cayenne. Stew the fish until it will pass through a coarse sieve, then return it to the stewpan, with a piece of butter, and some flour to thicken ; add two glassfuls of white wine, and a table-spoonful of garlic vinegar. This stock will, if re-boiled in cold wreather, keep for a month. Any kind of fish soup may be made in this way, as well as eel, crayfish, lobster, or prawn. The flat-head (Tasmania), when skinned and dressed as above, would satisfy the palate of the most fastidious, whether he be a gourmand or an epicure. Cottage Soup.—Fill an earthen pot or saucepan with six quarts of water, add one pound of bacon, with a proportionate quantity of carrots, 'turnips, cabbages, leeks, and onions; season with pepper and salt, and