PUDDINGS AND PIES- 51 larger growth. The boar’s head was another aec< mpaniment of Christmas cheer, which, we believe, is still kept tap at the Universities, and the forms and ceremonies of its introduction have been graphically and pleasingly told by Irving and others . “ Caput apri defero, Redens laudes Domino. The boar’s heade in hande bring I, , With garlandes gay and rosemary; I pray you all sing merrily, Qui cstis in convivio. “ Caput apri defero, Redens laudes Domino. The boar’s heade, I understande. Is the chief service of the lande; Like wherever it be fonnde, iServite cum cantico.” We like these quaint old customs and ceremonies, and hope they will be always Kepc up in the old country. In the Colonies it cannot be expected: besides, there is an in- superable objection—the heat of summer is discouraging to festivity. Old customs, manners, feasts, and dishes, as well as old songs and music, should be preserved, as they tend to keep together time-honoured remembrances, and the descendants of Englishmen at the Antipodes look on them all with filial respect. Why was Eton Montem abolished, and why cannot it be revived ? We, at a distance, never heard any cause or reasons assigned for its abolition. Its continuation and existence as a species of Protestant carnival might, or might not, have been “ More honoured in the breach Than the observance.” What is the difference, we should bo glad to know, between the collection for the Grecians, after the speeches on St. Matthew’s day, who are leaving Christ’s Hospital for the Universities, and the former “salt money,” raised by the forms and ceremonies of chivalry for the captain of Eton for a similar purpose ? When the athletic sports of boxing, hunting, shooting, cricket, racing, rowing,* running, and walking, are dis- couraged, and roast beef, plum pudding, and the loving cup are no longer partaken of, we fear that we shall witness signs of the decadence of one of the greatest nations of the world, and our national character will sink into chronic insignificance. A writer of a work of this nature has reminded us that Bickerstaffe, in the “ Tatler ” in the reign of Queen Anne, asserts it as a received axiom of that Augustan age, that the men who fought the battles of Cressy and Agincourt derived their sinews of war from the sub- stantial English fare of those early times; and records, with humiliation, the ener- vating effects which are supposed to have followed on the introduction of so dainty and effeminate an article of food as mutton, and the foreign confections of our Continental neighbours. In new countries we would have athletic sports, pastimes, and games en- couraged by legislative enactment, and yearly games of an Olympic character held; for these contests, in the best days of Greece, were not only confined to manly sports, but music and poetry were encouraged, and the orators were crowned with garlands of wild olive: and surely there is room for improvement in the latter respect, both in the mother country and the colonies. If Olympic games were introduced in the latter, the Hellenic rule as to competitors would have to be relaxed. We are running into a dis- quisition on a subject that we havo a strong feeling on, although almost foreign to our work, so that we had better “ hark back ” to the theme of cookery. Plum Pudding Sauce.—Having given Dr. Kitchener’s recipe for plum pudding, we are bound to give his sauce : a glass of sherry, half a glass of brandy, and two tea-spoonfuls of white sugar, a little grated lemon-peel, mixed with a quarter of a pint of thick melted butter, and nutmeg grated on the surface. The Abingdon Pudding,—One pound of raisins, nicely stoned; one * Wo are glad to perceive, by the late English papers, that our countryman, Mr. Green, has not, in thik manly sport, dishonoured the land of his birth, and that the British public duly appreciated and admired the pluck of the Australian champion, in going the semi-circumference of the world to pull a race. E 2