230 VICTORIAN FISH. thirty miles in width. Mr. Put wain’s system of breeding is based on the Italian from which it differs in some respects. The breeding pond is situated at the extremity of Sandy Point. It was originally a shallow lagoon, but Mr. Putwain ha3 had it deepened. The bottom of the pond is laid with bundles constructed of tea-tree saplings; these hurdles are securely fixed to the bottom of the pond, and on the top of them clean oyster-shells are placed, in order to attract and form a bed for the oysters that are to deposit their spawn. Mr. Putwain prefers a bed composed of oyster-shells. In Prance it has been found that the fish which cling to the fascines become deformed, and of a round shape; to give them their natural flatness, he adopts a horizontal bed. The hurdles are supplied by contract, at Is. Id. each, Mr. Putwain conveying them in his own vessels, making the cost about two shillings each. The work has been costly. Prom thirty to forty men have been employed for months in preparing the future cul- tivation grounds, and in the construction of ponds. The adventure has already cost £3,000, and it is calculated it will amount to £10,000 before any return is derived. The establishment owns five vessels, from seven to twenty tons each, which are employed in dredging and fetching the oysters, conveying the hurdles from various parts of the bay, and in dredging and clearing out the future beds. The first step in the process is to obey the famous direction of the culinary Mrs. Glasse 9—first catch your oysters. The oyster caught is deposited in the breeding pond. The breeding season runs from October to December, a period of about three months. [In England oysters are per- mitted to be sold from August to May—the close months being May, June, and July. They cast their spat, or spawn, in May, when they are said to bo sick; but begin to recover in June and July, and in August they are perfectly well.—Supp. to “ Encyc. Brit.”' In Tasmania the law prevents the taking of oysters in the months of November, De- cember, January, February, and March.] Mr. Putwain procures his oyster parents from Port Albert. A considerable supply is on hand, and already in the pond. The oyster is laid down with its flat side uppermost. The spawn, on being shed, floats on the water for nine days. As the spawn grows it waxes heavier, and sinks. Then, if left to the peace and quiet of nature, it rapidly advances in growth. In three weeks it will be visible to the naked eye as a minute shell; at six weeks it is removed to the cultiva- tion beds; and at four months’ old it is the size of a fourpenny piece. At three months, taken up from the beds in a mass, the little oysters are removed from each other by an oyster knife. “When separated they are replaced again, and spread over the bottom. At the end of three years the well-grown oyster is fit for the market; but it is not until the fourth year that it is in the interesting condition of being parent to other broods. The oyster is one of the most productive of creatures. Hartwig (“ Das Eeben des Meeres”) states that it produces during each summer of the year no less than one to two millions of young, the greater part of which perish during their wan- derings. Instead of leaving its eggs at once to their fate, like the greater number of marine animals, the oyster retains them for some time in the folds of the paternal mouth-like structure between the gill-plates, where they are surrounded with slimy matter. After growing in this fashion, the microscopic larvce, provided with a swimming apparatus and eyes, are carried by thousands from the mother's shell, and drifted about till they find a substance to which to attach themselves. The enemies of the oyster are principally the borer, (the bir), one of the echinidse, or sea-urchins, and the star- fish, or asteroids. The Government have given a lease of a track of five miles long and half a mile broad, covering a space of about 4,000 acres, at a nominal rental of a shilling an acre, for the speculation. We trust the enterprise will answer the expectations of those who have embarked their capital on the waters of Western Port, where there is shore enough to yield a supply of oysters sufficient to satisfy not only Melbourne, but the entire colony of Victoria, which, at present, receives a large importation of this valuable bivalve, principally from Tasmania. We hope that Mr. Putwain will meet with success in his interesting undertaking. “ ’Tis not in mortals to command success. But we’ll do more, Sempronius—we’ll deserve it.” Fresh Water:— Murray Cod—Jib. to lOOlbs. First-class dinner fish ; its goodness not generally known. A fish of about 201bs. should be slightly corned for a couple of days. Lay it on one side one day, and turn it; if this is done it will flake like English cod. * Mrs. Glasse’s “ Cookery Book ” was written by Dr. Hill.