CAKES. 140 flavoured with a little salt; mix four eggs with half a pouud of Hebrew or “ matso ” flour, and a dessert-spoonful of white sugar; mix with a tea-cupful of milk, and bake in a tin. Passover Cakes.—Seven days sliall ye eat unleavened bread ; even the first day ye shall put away leaven out of your bouses: for whosoever eateth leavened bread from the first day until the seventh day, that soul shall be cut off from Israel.—Exod. xii. 15. Ginger and Lemon Oakes.—To two pounds of flour add a pound of good sugar, one ounce of best ginger, well mixed with the flour; have ready three-quarters of a pound of lard or butter, melted, and four eggs well beaten ; mix the lard and eggs together, and stir in the flour, which will form a paste; roll out in thin cakes, and bake in a moderately-heated oven. Lemon biscuits are made the same way, by substituting essence of lemon instead of ginger. There i3 a wonderful difference in these cakes made with plain flour and Jones’s patent flour. The superiority of the latter in cakes and puddings is very great indeed. Banbury Oakes.—Put a gill of warm milk to a pound of flour, and three spoonfuls of yeast; -when it has worked a little, mix with it half a pound of currants, washed and cleaned, a quarter of a pound of orange and lemon-peel, cut small, and an ounce of mixed spice; mix the whole together with half a pound of honey ; roll out some paste thin, and make it in the form of an oval; put into each the quantity of the mixture, close it round and soft, sugar over, and bake. Bath Buns.—Rub half a pound of butter into a pound of flour; beat up six eggs, and add them to the flour, with two table-spoonfuls of yeast. Mix them together with half a cupful of lukewarm milk; set it to rise; then add six ounces of white sugar, and a few carraway-seeds; mould into buns; put on the top of each six or eight carraway comfits, and bake. Italian Macaroons. — Blanch a pound of Jordan or Valencia almonds ; pound them fine with the whites of four eggs ; add two pounds and a half of the best white sugar, and pound all together; add the whites of six more cgg8, and bake ; adding slips of blanched almonds on the top of each macaroon before putting in the oven. The old English recipe of 1618 shows that macaroons were composed of sugar and almonds, and they were formerly called March-panes, said to be derived from the cele- brated epicure, Marcus Apicius ; while other authorities aver that they were sacred to Mars, and stamped with a castle. March-pane was an invariable accompaniment in the desserts of our ancestors, and we believe is now used at the old universities. Ratafia Oakes.—These cakes are made in a similar way to the ma- caroons. Almond Sponge Cake.—Pound in a mortar one pound of blanched almonds, with the whites of four eggs; then add one pound of sifted white sugar, some grated lemon-peel, and the yolks of twelve eggs ; work them well together, beat to a froth the whites of the dozen eggs, and stir them into the other ingredients, with a quarter of a pound of flour; put