I ADVERTISEMENTS. BORWICK’S BAKING POWDER Ts used by thousands of Families for raising Bread, with half the trouble and in a quarter the time required with Yeast, and for rendering Puddings and Pastry light and wholesome. Dr. Hassall remarks : “ The ingredients of which it is composed are pure and good, and none of them are in the least degree injurious.” The Queen’s Private Baker says, “It is a most useful invention.” Captain Allen Young, of the Arctic Yaoht “ Fox,” states, that “ It keeps well, and answers admirably.” E. Hamilton, Esq., M.D., F.S.A., observes, that “It is much better for raising Bread than Yeast, and much more wholesome.” Sold by all Chemists, Grocers, and Corn Chandlers in the United Kingdom, in 2s. 6d., 4s. 9d., and 9s. Bottles. Wholesale by G. Borwick, London. THE PATENT OZONIZED COD LIVED OIL Conveys artificially to the lungs of the delicate and consumptive, Ozone, the vital principle in oxygen, without the effort of inhalation, and has the wonderful effect of reducing the pulse to its proper standard, while it strengthens and invigorates the system—restoring the consumptive to health, unless in the last stage. The highest medical authorities pronounce it the nearest approach to a specific for that most dreadful of all maladies yet discovered—in fact, it will restore to health when all other remedies fail. See Lancet, March 9, 1861. Sold by all Chemists, in 2s. 6d., 4s. 9d., and 9s. Bottles. Wholesale by G. Borwick, Sole Licensee, 21, Little Moorfields, London. NO MORE PILLS OR ANY OTHER MEDICINE. Perfect digestion, strong nerves, sound lungs, healthy liver, refreshing sleep, functional regularity, and energy, restored to the most disordered or enfeebled —removing speedily and effectually indigestion (dyspepsia), cough, asthma, con- sumption, habitual constipation, diarrhoea, all gastric derangements, haemor- rhoids, liver complaints, flatulency, nervousness, biliousness, fevers, sore throats, diphtheria, catarrhs, colds, influenza, noises in the head and ears, rheumatism, gout, impurities, eruptions, hysteria, neuralgia, irritability, sleeplessness, acidity, palpitation, heartburn, headache, debility, dropsy, cramps, spasms, nausea and sickness even in pregnancy or at sea, sinking fits, bronchitis, scrofula, tightness of the chest, pains at the pit of the stomach and between the shoulders, &c.—by Du Barry’s Delicious Health-Restoring Revalenta Arabica Pood. Extract from 60,000 Cures.—Cure No. 58,216, of the Marchioness de Brehan, Paris, of a fearful liver complaint, wasting away, with a nervous palpitation all over, bad digestion, constant sleeplessness, low spirits, and the most intolerable nervous agitation, which prevented even her sitting down for hours together, and which for seven years had resisted the careful treatment of the best French and English medical men. Cure No. 1,771: Lord Stuart de Decies, Lord-Lieutenant of the County of Waterford, of many years’ dyspepsia. Cure No, 49,842: “Fifty years’ indescribable agony from dyspepsia, nervousness, asthma, cough, constipation, flatulency, spasms, sickness, and vomiting.— Maria Joly.” Cure No. 47,121: Miss Elizabeth JacobB, Nazing Vicarage, Waltham Cross, Herts, of extreme nervousness, indigestion, gatherings, low spirits, and nervous fancies. Cure No. 54,816: The Rev. James T. Campbell, Fakenham, Norfolk, of indigestion and torpidity of the liver, which had resisted all medical treatment. Cure No. 54,812: Miss Virginia Zeguers, of consumption. In Tins, lib., 2s. 9d.; 21b., 4s. 6d.; 121b., 22s. Barry Dn Barry and Co., 77, Regent Street, London; 26, Place Vendflme, Paris; 12, Rue de l’Empereur, Brussels; and 2, Via Oporto, Turin.