244 PRESERVED MEATS. in a tin vessel, capable of being hermetically sealed ■with solder. It is then heated, for some time, in a bath of muriate of lime, and the aper- ture neatly soldered up. After this, it is again exposed to the action of tie heated bath, for a period which varies with the size and nature of the contents of the vessels; and to prove that this latter operation is really the most important of the whole, it sometimes happens that cans which have began to decompose are opened, re-soldered, aud again submitted to the muriate of lime bath, with the most perfect success as regai’ds the ultimate result. The system of Gamble has worked well, although there are occasional failures. Provisions have been kept in this way for twenty-six years. It was found by Sir John Ross, that a number of cases of preserved provisions left for many years upon Fury Beach, aud exposed to varieties of temperature, were nevertheh ss perfectly sound and wholesome when opened. Mr. Solder, some few years since, adopted the idea originally conceived by Sir Humphry Davy, of enclosing cooke l provisions in a complete vacuum. For this purpose, the provisions, slightly cooked on the surface, were enclosed in canisters, similar to those of Gamble’s, but stronger, and provided with a small opening in the cover. At this moment a slight condensation was effected by the application of a cold or damp rag or sponge, and simultaneously with this the small open- ing was soldered up. In theory nothing could seem better adapted to insure success; but, from the Parliamentary disclosures, it is evident that the practical working of the invention was not satisfactory. Few vessels leave the ports of Great Britain without a supply from Messrs. Gamble and Co. The mode of preserving butcher’s meat, fbh, and poultry is as follows:—Let the substance to be preserved be first parboiled, or rather somewhat more, the bones of the meat being previously removed. Put the meat into a tin cylinder, fill up the ves-el with seasoned rich soup, and then solder on the lid, pierced with a small hole. When this has been done, let the tin vessel thus prepared be placed in briue and heated to boiling point, to complete the remainder of the cooking of the meat. The hole in the lid is now to be closed perfectly by soldering, whilst the air is rarefied. The vessel is then allowed to cool, and from the diminu- tion of the volume, in consequence of the reduction of temperature, both ends of the cylinder are pressed inwards and become concave. The tin cases, thus hermetically sealed, are exposed in a test chamber for at least a month to a temperature above what they are now likely to en- counter, from 90° to 110° of F. If the process has failed, putrefaction takes place and gases evolved, which, in process of time, will cause both ends of the case to bulge, so as to render them convex instead of concave. But the contents of those cases which stand the test will infallibly keep perfectly sweet and good in any climate, and for any number of years. If there be any taint about the meat when put up, it invariably ferments, and is detected in the proving process. According to the last notice of that most useful institution, the Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, aud Commerce, the first inti- mation of which appears to the colonists in Saunders, Otley, and Morgan’s “ Oriental Budget,’’ the sum of £70 has been placed at the