281 DRINKS. used to be improvised within a few miles of the capital, and temporary hairs and a strong table being fixed, the governor would take the seat of honour, having in front of him a barbecued pig, and on his honour’s right hand, a cask of “ blow my skull ”—sufficient for all comers—no special invitation being necessary. A challenge to liquor from the representative of majesty in a roomy pannikin, could not well be declined, although the ceremonial observed in the bush was not over strict. “No heeltaps! ” called out the governor in a voice of authority, and the unfortunate stranger- was at once hors de combat; while the governor having an impenetrable cranium, and an iron frame, could take several goblets of the alcoholic fluid, and walk away as lithe and happy as possible, attended by an orderly who could scarcely preserve his equilibrium. Now for the com- ponent parts. “ Blow my skull,” as its name imports, was a remarkably powerful drink, and it was made in the following proportions:—Two pints of boiling water, with quantum sufficit of loaf sugar, and lime or lemon-juice, one pint of ale or porter, one pint of rum, and half a pint- of brandy. How few of the “ old hands ” there are in Hobart Town, who recollect the flavour of this celebrated liquor, or the days of Colonel Davey; and we believe that there are none living at Sydney who remember the time when an invitation “ at dinner," to Govern- ment House, was accompanied by the polite request to bring your own bread, owing to its scarcity. Claret Cup.—Sherry, six table-spoonfuls ; brandy, two ditto ; sugar, an ounce and a half; two or three shreds of lemon-peel; the above to be added to one bottle of claret, and a bottle of soda-water. They should be kept in a cool place, a refrigerator for instance, and only opened before drinking. A lump of ice and a little borage are improvements.— Crack in the “ Field ; or, the Country Gentleman's Newspaper." The Loving Cup,—The loving cup is a splendid feature of the hall- feasts of the City and Inns of Court. The cup is of silver or silver gilt, and is filled with spiced wine, immemoriably termed “sack.” Imme- diately after the dinner and grace, the master and wardens drink to their visitors a hearty welcome ; the cup is then handed round the table, and each guest, after he has drunk, applies his napkin to the mouth of the cup before he passes it to lis neighbour. The more formal practice is, for the person who pledges with the loving cup to stand up and bow to his neigh- bour, who, also standing, removes the cover with his right hand, and holds it while the other drinks : a custom said to have originated in the precaution to keep the right, or dagger hand employed, that the person who drinks may be assured of no treachery, like that practised by Elf'rida. on the unsuspecting King Edward the Martyr, at Corfe Castle, who was slain while drinking. This was why the loving cup possessed a cover,— F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. The components of the above loving cup are—half a tea-cupful of capillaire, sugar, a few drops of orange-flower water, a pint of brown sherry, one bottle of ale, and just before placing it on the table, a bottle of soda-water must be added, with some grated nutmeg on the top of the