CAKES. 154 cook three or four at a time. In about ten minutes turn them with a fork, and you will find them browned, and swollen or risen in two or three minutes more. Remove them from the pan to a dish, when they will dry and cool. Christmas kule Cake.—Take one pound of fresh butter, one pound of sugar, one pound and a half of flour, two pounds of currants, a glass of brandy, one pound of sweetmeats, two ounces of sweet almonds, ten eggs, and a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon. Melt the butter to a cream, and put in the sugar, stir it light, adding the allspice and cinnamon; take the yolks of the eggs and work them and the whites separate. The paste must not stand to chill, or it will be heavy. Work in the -whites gradually, then add the orange-peel, lemon, and citron ; cut in strips, add currants and almonds, which must be well mixed in ; then add the flour and brandy. Bake in a tin hoop, in a hot oven for three hours, and paper the bottom to prevent its being burnt. Hanover Oakes.—Beat the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four well together, then add a pound of finely-powdered white sugar, the rind and juice of two lemons; beat them well together with a pound of blanched almonds, coarsely bruised, and three-quarters of a pound of flour ; shape and put them on a tin to bake. The Whig’.—Rub a quarter of a pound of fresh butter into two pounds of flour till none of it is visible, then add half a pint of warm cream and a quarter of a pint of good yeast; mix the whole into a light paste, and set it to rise; have ready some grated nutmeg, mace, and cloves, a quarter of an ounce of carraway-seeds, and a quarter of a pound of fine sugar. When the dough has risen these ingredients must be worked into it. The paste is then rolled out thin, and divided into cakes. These were crossed in olden times. But the cakes on tins to rise, and then bake. Scotch Cake.—To a pound and a half of flour, the same quantity of butter, and the same quantity of wrhite sugar, six ounces of blanched sweet almonds, three-quarters of a pound of candied orange-peel, half a pound of citron, cut small, half a nutmeg grated, a tea-spoonful of car- raway-seeds, twelve eggs (the yolks and whites well beaten separately) ; beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar and eggs gradually, mix the flour by degrees, and then the sweetmeats, almonds, and spice; lastly, stir in a glass of brandy ; butter the hoop or tin, and pour in the cake so as to nearly fill it; smooth the top, and strew over it carraway comfits. Bake in a moderate oven. Galette.—Work lightly three-quarters of a pound of butter into a pound of flour, add a salt-spoonful of salt, and make it into a paste with the yolks of twro eggs, mixed with a tea-cupful of cream or water; roll round, three-quarters of an inch thick, score it in small diamonds, brush yolks of eggs over the top, and bake it for about half an hour in a quick 'Oven. It is usually eaten hot, but it is served cold also. This is a very favourite cake in la belle France.