93 FISH. the pork and put in a layer of fish, over that a layer of onions, in slices, then a layer of fish with slips of salt pork, then another layer of onions, and so on alternately until your fish is consumed; mix some flour with as •much water as will fill the pot, season with black pepper and salt to taste, and boil for half an hour. Have ready some crackers (Philadelphia pilot bread, if you can get it), soaked in water until a little softened ; throw them into your chouder five minutes before you take it up. Serve in a "tureen. A correspondent in the “Magazine of Domestic Economy” asserts that it is. a well- known fact, not only in our own country but in every part of the world, especially on the North American continent, that ichthyophagists, or feeders on fish, who dwell on the sea-coast, are a hardy, well-conditioned, and healthy race of men. Lampreys.—Cleanse the fish, remove the tough membrane from the •back, put the lampreys into a stewpan, and cover them with strong beef gravy; add a dessert-spoonful of mixed allspice, mace, and cloves, in powder, a spoonful of salt, a few grains of cayenne pepper, a gill of port wine, the same of sherry, and a table-spoonful of horseradish vinegar; cover the pan, and stew gently till the fish are tender ; then take them out, and add to the same two anchovies beaten to paste, and the juice of a lemon ; boil it up and strain it, and, if requisite, thicken it with butter and flour. Warm the lampreys in this sauce before serviug. Garnish with slices of lemon and sippets of toasted bread.—Cuisine at the “ Hop Pole” Worcester. The lamprey was a pet fish with the ancients. Antonia, the wife of Drusus, hung the gills of a lamprey with pearls and earrings • Licanius Croesas fed his lampreys in a vivarium; and Quintius Hortensius is said to have wept at the death of his dear fish. One of our kings (Henry I.) died from eating too largely of lampreys. By ancient custom, the city of Gloucester, as a token of their loyalty, present a lamprey pie Annually at Christmas to their sovereign; this is sometimes a costly gift, as lampreys at that season can scarcely he procured at a guinea a piece. Eish—How to Choose, How to Dress.—We much question whether the ancients could better the above recipe for dressing lampreys, whichjmine host of the “ Hop Pole,” Worcester, adopts; indeed, the most ill-flavoured fish, after undergoing such an ordeal, must be received with respect by any piscatory feeder. Conger Soup, in tlie Jersey Mode.—Take five pounds of conger to three pints of water; cut the former into small pieces, and place them in a boiler with the water, until the liquid is reduced to two-thirds of its original quantity; then strain it; add to it the same quantity of new milk there is of soup, and warm this up again ; throw in some green peas, which should be boiled up in the soup until thoroughly done, and then serve the peas and soup together.—Piscator. Any fish soup may he made in the above manner, substituting weak stock for milk, and other vegetables and herbs for green peas. Trumpeter. {Tasmania').—This is, without exception, the finest- flavoured fish in the Southern Hemisphere, and it is said to rival the turbot indelicacy. It is sometimes caught up to forty pounds weight, but one of about five or six pounds is the proper size for the piscamous gourmet, who will have it boiled in salt water, and served with plain melted butter, for a pungent sauce overcomes the delicate taste of the