141 BREAKFAST. lishment has an infinite variety to choose from. Meats—cold, of different kinds—poultry, pies, ham, tongue, and game. Hot fish, and broiled chops and steaks, eggs and bacon, omelettes, poached and boiled eggs, toast, muffins, marmalade, butter, jams, and honey, not omitting, delicious cakes, made on a girdle from Jones’s patent flour, which, buttered hot, are light, wholesome, and nutritious. Tea, coffee, and fruits assorted. The Americans are first-rate hands at the display and fixings they put on the table ; but we believe that the Scotch exceed all other nations, in the variety at this repast, and the goodness of the viands. Coffee is the liquid for this meal; eschew tea by all means, unless for an exercise or a journey, and then a glass of mild ale is not to be disregarded. For training to obtain a good wind in walking, running, boxing, riding, or rowing,, there is no breakfast more wholesome than oatmeal porridge, so says Rural Field Sports, and it is very good tact to commence the breakfast with a plateful on any other occasion. The cookery of it is very simple, but rarely well done—either too thick or thin. The Scotch mode of mak- ing it is to allow the water to boil, and then to put the meal in by degrees. We prefer the common way of mixing the meal with cold water, so that it should not be lumpy, putting it on the stove to simmer, until done, with a little salt. When it has boiled sufficiently, it will, on being put on a cold plate, with a little milk in it, set hard, and this is the best criterion of its being done. Gruel is made in a similar way, with the ad- dition of wine, sugar, and spice. Breakfast has been considered the meal of friendship, and dinner that, of etiquette. The carte of a well-appointed breakfast is as follows:—On a table, where everything should be neat and simple, there should be as many different kinds of rolls as the person who prepares them is able to make. These should differ from each other as much in form as in taste, and on the side table there should be some cold dishes, such as fowls, pheasants, partridges, tongue, ham, cold pates, &c. Few persons are displeased at seeing a slight sprinkling of hot dishes, as mutton kidneys, new-laid eggs, eggs and bacon, boiled cutlets, larks a la minute, devilled fowl, &c.; in- fact, all that is generally considered as constituting a dejeuner a lafourchette, observing that the hot meats ought not to be served till the guests are at table. Tea (green and black separately), coffee, and chocolate, should also be served.—Ude. Breakfast. This is, perhaps, tho most national, and not the least important of our meals; for, since many hours must have intervened since the last meal, the stomach ought to be in a condition to receive a fresh supply of aliment. As all the food in the body has, during the night, been digested, we might presume that a person in the- morning ought to feel an appetite on rising. This, however, is not always the fact: the gastric juice may not be secreted in any quantity during sleep, while the muscular energies ot the stomach, although invigorated by repose, are not immediately called into action; it is therefore advisable to allow an interval to commence the meal of breakfast. The solidity of our breakfast should be regulated by the labour and exercise to be taken, and to the time of dining,—Pam. A couple of poached eggs, with a few fine dry fried collops of pure bacon, are not bad. for breakfast, or to begin a meal.—Digby’s Closet of Cookery, 1GG9.