227 NEW ZEALAND FISH. Fresh-water eels, frequently of great size, and small fish, suitable for food, are numerous in the rivers and lakes. Fish are eaten after being stewed, roasted, or dried. Crayfish, and several small fish, are eaten alive—a custom settlers have pointed out as a remnant of cannibalism, all the time forgetting that swallowing an uncooked oyster is an analogous act. Eels, dogfish, snapper, mackerel, and several other fish, are preserved in various ways for winter food. In effecting this the entrails are some- times extracted, and the fish are frequently dipped in sea-water and dried in the sun. At other times the fish are half cooked, then dried in the sun, or exposed to a. slow smoky fire for several days. In this last process the fat does not escape, and the flavour of the fish is not lost. Preserved fish keep good for several months ; shell-fish also furnish much food. The pipi and cockle were the most esteemed, and at certain seasons places where shell-fish abounded were tapued (held sacred). Shell-fish were pre- served for winter food in the same way as other fish, and kept on strings. The intimate knowledge the Hew Zealanders possess of the habits of fish, and their success in fishing, are indirect proofs that much of the ancient food of the people was derived from this source. The largest villages are on the sea-coast, and all the settlements in the interior are within easy access of some productive lake, eel weir, or arm of the sea. like the Saxons, the Hew Zealanders reckon eels the finest of all fish. New Zealand War.—We applied to a pakeha maori for an account of the New Zealand fish, and he referred us to Thomson’s “ New Zealand, Past and Present, Savage and Civilised,” from the pages of which excellent work the above extracts have been, taken. We also append some of the quaint remarks of our esteemed correspondent:—• “ About the cookery I have no notion; indeed, the attention of the Europeans in this country is chiefly at present taken up with the consideration of how not to get cooked themselves—a thing not unlikely to happen to some before the war is over. I could give you some information as to how a man should be cooked and dished, but this I suppose you don’t care to put in your book, and I only know it not as a cook, but as one of the proper accomplishments of a Maori warrior, which every gentleman of the old school is supposed to be versed in.” Cannibalism at New Zealand has ceased; therefore the witty remark of Sydney Smith to Dr. Selwyn, on his departure for that land, is no longer appropriate. The advice was for the bishop to receive the chiefs with the follow- ing speech: “ I deeply regret that I have nothing on my table suited to your taste, but you will find plenty of cold curate and roasted clergyman on the side-table.”—Lady Hollands Memoirs of Sydney Smith. Responsible Government, in a country where there are a large number of intelligent aboriginal inhabitants, the rightful owners of the soil, is “ a mockery, a delusion, and a snare.” The natives can understand a Government being carried on by the Queen . ad her nominees, but they cannot comprehend a Government by the majority of the European settlers. The present war going on at New Zealand is much to be deplored; the settlement and civilisation of the country will be retarded. Better far to purchase the land ten times over than such a hostile conflict of races should occur, which must be written in blood, waste millions of money, and afford no attainable glory to the soldiery engaged. On the contrary, according to Dr. Thomson, 58th Regiment—a military man most unlikely to give false colouring to the acts of the troops—at Oheani pa, in 1815, a British flag was taken, and the officers only saved them- selves by ridiculous and undignified flight.—Thomson's “ New Zealand,” vol. ii., p. 115. That won’t be the case with General Cameron. He will teach the unfortunate Maories that barbarism must give way to civilisation, and that it is far wiser on their part to place themselves quietly under British rulo than to oppose it—to forfeit their broad lands and save their lives. At the same time, we are bound to say it may be necessary to assert, by force of arms, England’s supremacy, after every possible effort has been made to nego- tiate by peaceable means. Has this been done ? George IV. told the late chief Hongi, that he would not send soldiers to New Zealand, lest tho natives should be deprived uf their country. So Honi Hcki informed Her Majesty, by letter, shortly before Mb r 2