150 CAKES. the mixture in a mould, and bake an hour; take the cake out of the mould, and set it on a sieve. Orange Gingerbread.—To two pounds of flour add a pound and three-quarters of treacle, six ounces of candied orange-peel, cut small, three- quarters of a pound of moist sugar, one ounce of ground ginger, and one ounce of allspice. Melt half or three-quarters of a pound of butter, mix the whole well together and lay it by for six hours. Roll it out into pieces in the form of chequers, and bake an inch apart; rub them over with a brush dipped in yolk of eggs and milk. When baked, rub over a second time. Gingerbread Nuts.—Mix two pounds of flour, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, two pounds of treacle, half a pound of candied orange- peel, cut small, an ounce and a half of ginger, an ounce of ground all- spice, carraways, and corianders mixed, and three-quarters of a pound of butter, oiled. Mix all together, and set it aside for six hours, then roll it out in pieces the size of a walnut. Press them flat and bake. Plain Buns.—To two pounds of flour put half a pound of moist sugar, make a cavity in the centre, and stir in half a gill of good yeast, half a pint of lukewarm milk, with enough flour to thicken it. Let it rise for half an hour or more, then melt half a pound of butter lukewarm, stir it into the other ingredients with enough Avarm milk to make it a soft paste, throw some flour over it, and let it rise for three-quarters of an hour. Have ready a baking-tin, mould the buns into sizes, and bake. When drawn from the oven, milk them over. Cross Buns.—Made similar to the above, only crossed when baked, and an ounce of spice added to the mixture. Hot cross buns axe, in England, intimately associated with our observances of Good Friday. AVinclemaun relates the discovery of two perfect buns at Herculaneum, each marked with a cross, within which were four other lines. Hesychius describes the bonn as a kind of cake, with a representation of ten horns. Descending to the earlier Catholic times, we find that buns were the eulogies, or consecrated loaves, made from the dough whence the host was taken, and given by the priests to the people. They are marked with the cross, as eur Good Friday buns axe.—Fosbrolce. Seed Buns.—Made as above, with half an ounce of camrway-seeds added for the spice. Plum Buns.—Made the same way as plain buns, Avith a small quan- tity of spice, and a quarter of a pound of currants, washed and picked. Oomfit Buns.—A pound and a half of fresh butter, to be melted in a little warm water, and three-quarters of a pint of good yeast added, with a wine-glassful of rose-Avater. This is poured on two pounds of flour, mixed Avith three-quarters of a pound of sifted sugar; knead the Avhole into a light paste, Avith half a pound of carraway comfits. Make it into buns, and put a few comfits on the top of each, and bake. In the recipes for all buns and cakes, where yeast is directed to be used, if Jones’s patent flour is used, the yeast is quite unnecessary.