DOMESTIC HINTS. 250 serve, and then carefully turned out; on the dish and garnished according, to fancy. A Cake 'without Butter.—Beat well five eggs, to wliich add six ounces of flour; flavour with beaten almonds, and add, if liked, thin slices of citron; bake in a mould in a moderate oven. Matso Diet Bread.—Simmer one pound of white sugar in a quarter of a pint of water, which pour hot upon eight well-beaten eggs ; beat till cold, when add one pound of matso flour, a little grated lemon-peel, and bake in a prepared tin, or in small tins. The cake must be removed while hot. Breakfast Cake.—Make a paste of half a pound of flour, one ounce of butter, a very little salt, too eggs, and a table-spoonful of milk ; roll it out. but first set it to rise before the fire; cut it into cakes the size of a small cheese-plate, sprinkle with flour, and bake in a tin in a brisk oven, or on a girdle. They should be buttered hgt, and served quickly. The above recipes are from the peu of a lady, and although written for the “ peculiar people ” to which she belongs, we do not see why others should not use them occasionally, as a change, more especially as they are easy to make, and of a good practical quality ; nay, we will go further, and assert that the Jewish cuisine is unexceptionable in flavour, and more wholesome than the generality of Christian dishes, from the acid in- variably used in their composition. If the reader is sceptical on this point, “ let him taste and try.” Mosaic Law.—The ecclesiastical precautions always adopted to insure the purity «si the Passover diet, and that it should be composed of the best and simplest materials, are conducted with the severest scrutiny, in obedience to a written code, and are extremely minute and rigorous. The Passover food consists of a mixture of the finest flour with the purest water, to form biscuit, or unleavened bread; and it is eaten in reference to the Divine command to observe the Passover, in commemoration of the deliverance from the land of Egypt.—Extract from the “ Account of the Persecution of the Jems, at Damascus,” by D. Solomons, Esq., Lord Mayor of London in 1855. CX-DOMESTIC HINTS. Rhenish wines are very wholesome and agreeable, drunk simply without other wines. I must not here pass over altogether the excellence of malt liquor, though it is rather difficult to unite the use of it judiciously with tliat of wine. When taken together it should be in great moderation; but I rather prefer a malt-liquor day exclusively now and then, by way of variety, or take it at luncheon. There is something extremely grateful in the very best table-beer; aud it is to be lamented it ig so rarely to be met with in the perfection of which it is capable.—The Original. If you are particular in wishing to have a good joint from a butcher’s, choose it yourself. A short needle makes the quickest sewing. If you desire to have health, admit plenty of light and air into your house. It is bad economy to have inexperienced servants at low wages. it 2