MAGICAL DRINKS.—WINES. 171: other is much, the same as the soup maigre of this country. Then there is a loin of boiled veal, with fennel and carraway seeds, in a pottage composed of pickle, oil, honey, and flour ; and a curious hashis of the lights, liver, and blood of a hare, together with a dish of roasted pigeons. Monsieur le Baron, shall I help you to a plate of this soup ? —Peregrine PicUe. LXIII.—MAG I CAL DRINKS. Hecate.—And now about the cauldron sing. Like elves and fairies in a ring, Enchanting all that you put in.—Macbeth. The professors of ancient as well as modern magic found powerful auxiliaries in the soporific drugs and poisonous beverages which derange the intellectual as well as the physical condition of man. The waters of Lethe, and the beverage of Mnemosyne, which killed Timochares in three months after he quaffed it in the cave of Trophonius, are examples of the soporific and stupefying drinks of the ancients. The nephentes of Homer, the Jiyoscyamus datura, the solarium, the potomantis, the salatophyllis, and the archamenis of Pliny, the ophinsia of the Ethiopians, and the viucJiaviore of Kamschatka, were all the instruments of physical and in- tellectual degradation. The Old Man of the Mountain, in the time of the Crusades, is said to have enchanted his youthful followers by nar- cotic and exhilarating draughts. The Hindoo widow is supposed to ascend the funeral pile physically as well as morally fortified against pain. The victims of the Inquisition, similarly prepared, are said to have fre- quently slept in the midst of their torments ; and M. Taboureau assures us that the merciful gaolers make their prisoners swallow soap dissolved in water (the vehicle, doubtless, of more powerful medicaments) to enable them to bear the agonies of torture.—North British Review. An Intelligent Dinner Companion.—Coleridge once dined in company with a person who listened to him and said nothing for a long time, while he nodded his head to the remarks made at the appropriate time, and Coleridge set him down as intelligent. At length some apple dumplings were placed on the table, and the listener had no sooner seen them, than he burst forth, “ Them’s the jocldes for me! ” Coleridge adds, “ I wish Spurzheim could have examined the fellow’s head.”—Table Anecdotes. LXIV.-WINES. The Frenchman lives under a clear sky, drinks a brisk and joyous wine, and lives on food which keeps his senses in constant activity. The Englishman, on the contrary, dwells on a damp soil, under a sun which is almost cold, swills beer and porter, and consumes a quantity of butter and cheese—Pelet’s “Napoleon in Council.” As good eating requires equally good drinking, it is necessary that we should say something on wines. The antiquity of their existence is referred to in Genesis ix. 20 :—“ And Noah began to be a husbandman, and he planted a vineyard; ” and a modern Latin poet describes the vine as a gift from Heaven, to console mankind for the miseries entailed on them by the Deluge. So writes M‘Culloch. The wines generally used are port, sherry, claret, champagne, Madeira, hock, and Marsala. Most