WINES. 171 The vine, when transferred to a different soil, loses its characteristics. It has been found that vines from Spain, France, and Germany transplanted to the Cape of Good Hope and Australia have, in no one instance, pro- duced wine assimilating to the original plant; and the same result has occurred with European wines transplanted to America. The richest vines, as a general rule, have been grown on the sites of extinct volcanoes. The produce of the celebrated Lafitte vineyard, near Bordeaux, was sold in the year 1848 at 4,000 francs per tun, while the wines in the neigh- bourhood only realised 200 francs. The proprietors of a vineyard, which is only separated from that of Lafitte by a narrow gully, expended a large sum in endeavouring to improve their ground and assimilate it to Lafitte. They did not succeed, and were ruined. The costly Clos Yougeot grows only on a farm of eighty acres of land. Romanee Conti is but six and a half; and the famous Mont Rachel of the Cote d’Or is distinguished into three classes, of which one sells at less than two-thirds of the other two. Yet these qualities, writes Henderson, are produced from vineyards separated from one another by a foot-path. Sir Emerson Tennent, on “ Wine— Its Uses and Taxation,” tells us that only one small valley in Madeira produces the Malmsey ; and at the Cape of Good Hope, there is only one Coustantia vineyard. Liebig, in his “ Organic Chemistry,” has the following remarks on the Yougeot:—“ It is well known that wine and fermented liquors generally contain, in addition to alcohol, other sub- stances which could not be detected before their fermentation, and which must, therefore, have been formed during that process. The smell and taste which distinguish wine from all other fermented liquors are known to depend upon an ether of a volatile and highly combustible acid, which is of an oily nature, and to which the name of cemanthic (Ether has been given.” The most expensive wine is Vernuth, made in Austrian Germany. Madeira used to be a fruity and generous wine, but the vine disease (“ the oidium Tuckeri ”) has caused sad destruction.'*' Teneriffe is far inferior to Madeira. A pipe of Madeira was fished up near Antwerp in 1814, where it had lain in the water since 1778, and sold to Baron Rothschild for nearly its weight in gold. Dry Lisbon and Bucellas, white wines, are deservedly in high repute. The American wines,f Catawba, grown in Virginia and Missouri, and the Isabella, are highly spoken of. The Catawba is delicious in flavour, and more devoid of * Babon Liebeg on the Vine Disease.—A French landholder in the department of the Indre, whose vines were severely attacked by o'idium, had asked my advice about a remedy, the sulphur being no longer of any use. I advised him to manure his vine- yards with wood ashes and phosphates. Last October he sent me a document, signed by a number oE persons who had seen his vines. It declared that those which had been manured with ashes and phosphates had produced healthy fruit in abundance, while others close by, which had not received these manures, were the prey of o'idium. t Light, dry wines, such as hock, claret, Burgundy, Rhenish, and hermitage are, generally speaking, more salubrious than the stronger varieties, as port, sherry, or Madeira.. Claret, in particular, is the most wholesome wine known; champagne, except in cases of weak digestion, is one of the safest wines that con be drunk. Its intoxica- ting effects are rapid, but exceedingly transient, and depend partly upon the carbonic acid which is evolved from it, and partly from the alcohol, which is suspended in this gas, being applied rapidly and extensively to a large surface of the stomach.—Macnish.