GINGER. 103 yeast may froth over. After a week the sediment will subside, when the liquor is racked off into clean casks, and stored for use. When about to be bottled, if not clear, it should be clarified. When wanted for imme- diate use, a small lump of white sugar should be put in each bottle. Both cider and perry are far more wholesome than the foreign wines that are generally drugged for the English market.. The vast variety of New Jersey champagne cider is far superior to inferior champagne. The following is a good recipe for cider of this class :— Good pale vinous cider, one hogshead; pale proof spirit, three gallons ; honey or sugar, fourteen pounds. Mix well, and let them remain together in a temperate situation for a month, then add three pints of orange-flower water, and in a few days fine it down with half a gallon of skimmed milk. This is very pale. (We are indebted to “Cooley’s Practical Receipts” for the above.) Like everything else, cider is adulterated, and the generality of this liquor is merely water, treacle, and alum, mixed with a moiety of the real article of an inferior kind, and called “ Devonshire Cider.” As for perry, when pure, it is a pleasant and wholesome liquor, and is often taken for champagne by persons who profess to be connoisseurs and judges. Cleanliness.—I have more than once expressed my conviction that the humanising influence of habits of cleanliness and of those decent observances which imply self-respdct —the best, indeed, the only foundation of respect for others—has never been sufficiently acted on. A clean, fresh, and well-ordered house exercises over its inmates a moral no less than a physical influence, and has a direct tendency to make the members of a family sober, peaceable, and considerate of the feelings and happiness of each other; nor is it difficult to trace a connection between habitual feelings of this sort, and the forma- tion of habits of respect for property, for the laws in general, and even for those higher duties and obligations the observances of which no laws can enforce.—Dr. Soutkwood Smith. XXXI.—GINGER: Tlie dried rbizoma of zingiber officionalis, a native of the East Indies-, and abundantly cultivated in America, and the West India Islands, whence Europe is chiefly supplied. It is a good stimulant, and carminative, and the fresh root preserved makes an agreeable, warm, and not unwholesome sweetmeat. The acrimony of ginger appears to reside in a peculiar attractive matter, which is soluble in alcohol; hence a spirituous tincture contains the virtues of the root.—Brande. The medical properties of this very useful plant are much neglected. It is an aromatic stimulant of considerable power, and its action on the nervous membrane is great. When chewed it relieves toothache, rheu- matism of the jaw, and relaxed uvula. When received into the stomach, it promotes digestion in languid habits, and relieves flatulent colic. Gouty subjects are much benefited by ginger, and it formed the basis of the once celebrated Portland powder. For such persons, preserved ginger, taken at dessert, after a mixture of viands, is most beneficial, the finest being that in small round tender pieces, sent from the West Indies.