POULTRY. 48 put the juice of three lemons, two ounces of butter, and a handful of salt.. Let it simmer. Serve with celery, oyster, or brown sauce. Fowls are roasted and served in the same style as a turkey; only they do not take so long to roast. Bread sauce or fried bread-crumbs are a correct addition. Goose.—Roast goose is a common but favourite dish. It must be well stuffed with onion, sage, bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, and a little cayenne; with the liver, and the yolk of an egg. It must be well done, and served up with apple sauce; and garnish the dish with cut lemons. Roast goose is served up on Michaelmas Day in England because it is the day that Queen Elizabeth heard of the defeat of the Spanish armada, and her chivalrous High- ness ordered the dish to he invariably on the table afterwards; but other writers con- tend that this dish was eaten ou Michaelmas Day in the time of Edward IV., before the armada was thought of. In France they eat goose on St. Martin’s Day, Shrove Tues- day, and Twelfth Day; and in Denmark on St. Martin’s. We recommend the reader to eat it whenever he can get it, for it is a very good dish, and very palatable boiled, with sauce Robert. According to “ Notes and Queries,” the common expression of “ cooking yoiu’ goose ” is thus explained:— “The King op Sweden’s Goose.—The King of Sweden coming to a towne of his enemys with very little company, his enemys, to slight his forces, did hang out a goose for him to shoote; but perceiving before night that these few soldiers had invaded and set their chiefe houlds on fire, they demanded of him what his intent was. To whom he replied, ‘ To roast your goose.’ ” It is a curious illustration of de gustibus non est dispuiandcm, that the ancients con- sidered the swan as a high delicacy, and abstained from the flesh of the goose as impure and indigestible.—Mowbray. When he fed on roasted goose he was more vigorous, both in body and mind, than, with any other diet.—Dr. Hack’s Experiments on Diet. Ducks.—Roast in the same way as geese, and serve up in a similar manner. Cold Turkey, Goose, Fowl, &c.—Cut them in quarters; beat up an egg, with some grated nutmeg, pepper, salt, and parsley fine, a few sweet herbs, and crumbs of bread; mix all together, and cover the fowl, &c. Fry in a pan until well warmed; thicken a little gravy with flour and ketchup, lay the poultry fry on the dish, and garnish with slices of lemon. Sir Humphry Davy was a great epicure, and took unusual pains with the chemistry- of the kitchen. He gives us two culinary hints of the advantages of a Norwegian dinner —to roast fowls with plenty of parsley in their interior; and to abstract the unwhole- some juice of the cucumber it must be placed in slices in salt and water before it is used. Hashed Poultry or Game.—Cut into joints, and flour them with a little pepper, salt, and mustard. Put into a stewpan with a pint of broth, or stock, and a couple of shredded onions ; let the joints simmer, and add. a little more thickening, if necessary, and a table-spoonful of vinegar. Serve, and garnish with toasted bread sippets. If this dish is attended to, the above recipe carefully followed, and the poultry not over-done, there is hardly any dish more savoury or digestible. Dindon aux Legumes.—Wrap round the turkey prepared for roast- ing some slices of bacon, and dress it of a pale colour; then prepare a puree of chicory, celery, or turnips; celery is preferable ; put the roast