87 GAME. They are singed, and not drawn, put in a case, soaked in the best oil, and broiled over a slow fire. In a few minutes they will swim in their own fat. The most delicate mouths can masticate the bones, without the least inconvenience. To an epicure, ortolans are the most delicious of morsels, and are infinitely superior to roast pig, of which Charles Lamb had so favourable an opinion. Ortolan.—The name given in France and England to a species of frangillidce, greatly esteemed for the delicacy of its flesh, when in season. It is the oHolano of the Italians, and the fettammer of the Germans. The ortolan is a native of Northern Africa; but in the summer and autumnal months it resorts to Southern Europe, and frequently migrates to the central, and even the northern parts. There are large establishments in Italy and the south of France for feeding these birds, the flesh of which is styled by Prince Musignano, came squisita.—Brande. The American Boblink.—I have shown him only as I saw him at first, in what I may call the poetical part of his career, when he is in a manner devoting himself to elegant pursuits and enjoyments, and was a bird of music and song, and taste and sensi- bility, and refinement; While this lasted he was saved from injury: the very schoolboy would not fling a stone at him, and the merest rustic would pause to listen to his strain. But mark the difference. As the year advances, as the clover blossoms disappear and the spring fades into summer, he gradually gives up his elegant tastes and habits, doffs his poetical suit of black, assumes a russet, dusty garb, and sinks to the gross enjoy- ments of common, vulgar birds. His notes no longer vibrate on the ear; he is stuffing himself with seeds of the tall weeds on which he lately swung and chanted so melodiously. He has become a bon vivant, a gourmand; with him, now, there is nothing like the joys of the table! In a little while he grows tired of plain, homely fare, and is off on a gastronomical tour in quest of foreign luxuries. We next hear of him, with myriads of his kind, banqueting- among the reeds of the Delaware, and grown corpulent with good feeding. He has changed his name in travelling. Bob-lincon no more : he is the reed-bird now, the much sought for tit-bit of Pennsylvanian epicures, the rival in unlucky fame to the ortolan! "Wherever he goes, pop—pop—pop ! every unlucky rusty firelock in the country is blazing away. He sees his companions falling by thousands around him. Does he take warning and reform ? Alas! not he. Incor- rigible epicure! again he wings his flight. The rice swamps of the south invite him. He gorges himself among them almost to bursting; he can scarcely fly for corpulency. He has once more changed his name, and is now the rice-bird of the Carolinas. Last 3tage of his career: behold him, spitted, with dozens of his corpulent companions, and served up, a vaunted dish, on the table of some southern gastronome!—Washington Irvimg’s “ Chronicles of WolfeH's-roost.” Paon (P eacock) Eevetu,—Instead of plucking tbis bird, take off the skin with the greatest care, so that the feathers do not get detached or broken. Stuff' it with what you like, as truffles, mushrooms, livers of fowls, bacon, salt, spice, thyme, crumbs of bread, and a bay-leaf. Wrap the claws and head in several folds of cloth, and envelope the body in buttered paper. The head and claws, which project at the two ends, must be basted with water during the cooking, to preserve them, and especially the tuft. Before taking it off the spit, brown the bird by removing the paper. Garnish with lemon and flowers. If to come on the table cold, place the bird in a wooden trencher, in the middle of which is fixed a wooden skewer, "which should penetrate the body of the bird, to keep it upright. Arrange the claws and feathers in a natural manner, and the tail like a fan, supported "with wire. No ordinary cook can place a peacock on the table properly. This ceremony was reserved, in the times of chivalry, for the lady most distinguished for her beauty. She carried it, amidst inspiring music, and placed it, at the commencement of the banquet, before the master of the house. At a nuptial feast, the peacock was served by the maid of honour, and placed before the bride.