29 SAUCES. Fry them in a piece of very hot fat, drain them, and serve them hot. A rinole may be made in the napkin in the shape of a pate. Croquettes de Veau, ou de Yolaille,—Mince two pounds of veal, chicken, or turkey. Melt ten ounces of butter in a stewpan; when hot add a table-spoonful of fine flour, and mix ; beat the yolks of two eggs, with a little milk and the juice of a lemon; mix it with the flour and butter by degrees; then add the minced meat, with a tea-cupful of stock; season with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg grated, and a little lemon- peel. Stir it together, and let it boil till of proper thickness. Pour it into a basin till cold. Grate some bread on a pasteboard; cut the mince into pieces of the same size, and roll them lightly in the bread crumbs. Have ready beaten the yolk of an egg or two ; dip the croquettes into this, and roll them again in the bread crumbs, making them a neat shape —like a pear, which looks well. Have some lard melted, put the cro- quettes in, and fry them a light brown ; drain them on a colander, and keep them hot. Serve with garnished parsley. Fricassee de Poulet.—Cut the chickens into small pieces, after they are semi-boiled; then put them into a stewpan, with a piece of butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, some mushrooms, chives, two shalots; add a little flour, a glass of white wine, the same of pale stock ; season with salt and pepper, and stew for half an hour slowly. Take out the herbs, &c., and add to the sauce the yolks of three eggs, to which add a spoonful of vinegar and the same of stock. Ancient Manner of Dressing Fowls.—Artemidorus, in Ms “Dictionary of Cookery,” tells us:—“Boil a fat lien of the common poultry kind, and some young cocks just beginning to crow, if you wish to make a dish fit to be eaten with your wine. Then taking some vegetables, put them in a dish, and place upon them some of the meat of the fowl, and serve it up. But in summer, instead of vinegar, put some unripe grapes into the sauce, just as they are picked from the vine; and when it is all boiled, then take it out before the stones fall from the grapes, and shred in some vegetables.”—The Deijmosophists. Thirteen to Dinner.—There is a prejudice, generally, in the pretended danger of being the thirteenth at table. If the probability be required, that out of thirteen per- sons of different ages one of them shall at least die witMn a year, it will be found that the chances are about one to one that one death at least will occur. This calculation, by’means of false interpretation, has given rise to the prejudice, no less ridiculous, that the danger will be avoided by inviting a greater number of guests, which can only have the effect of augmenting the probability of the event so much apprehended.—Quetelct, on, the Calculation of Probabilities. IX—SAUCES. The palate’s grown callous almost to disease; "Who peppers the most is surest to -please.—Goldsmith. Melted Butter,—As this is the constituent of almost all English sauces, and, according to the wily Talleyrand, the only one we use, it is necessary that it should be well made—neither too thick nor too thin. Cut about two ounces of butter into pieces, put it into a stewpan, with a dessert-spoonful of flour and two table-spoonfuls of milk; when well