84 GAME. tlie kangaroo espy Patterson than it jumped at him and threw its forepaws round the horse’s neck. Fortunately the youth had a loaded pistol with him, which he drew and fired, the ball striking the kangaroo on the left shoulder, and passing out through its back. By this means one of the animal’s paws was disabled, but with the other it showed fight, and Patterson being unable to make any impression on his assailant with the blows of the pistol, for he had not another charge, endeavoured to get the stirrup out of the spring-bar, so as to use it at the end of the leather as a weapon. Whilst doing this the kangaroo, with its disabled paw, slightly wounded his hand. At length Patterson got the stirrup-leather loose, and hitting the animal on the temple with all his force, he succeeded in stunning it. With several other well-directed blows he suc- ceeded in killing it. The kangaroo was of enormous size, measuring no less than 9 feet 6 inches from the tip of its tail to its ears. The tail itself measured 15£ inches round at the butt, and the skin and tail weighed 29\ lbs. When sitting on its haunches the animal was fully 7 feet in height, and weighed 150 lbs.—Go album Chronicle. Kangaroo Steamer (Author's Recipe).—This is a simple species of braise, and, as its name imports, the meat is steamed. Cut the meat in pieces of about a quarter of an inch square, and put it into a pan with a well-covered lid, with a spoonful of milk, an onion shredded into small pieces, and some pepper and salt to taste. When it has been on the fire a short time add about a tenth in quantity of salt pork, or bacon cut to the same size as the kangaroo, with a spoonful of ketchup. Serve hot, with jelly. But of all the dishea ever brought to table, nothing equals that of the steamer. It is made by mincing the flesh of the kangaroo, and with it some pieces of pork or bacon. The animal has not any fat, or scarcely any, in its best season. When the meat is chopped up, it is thrown into a saucepan, and covered over with the lid, and left to stew or steam gently by the fireside. It is, from this method of cooking, called a “ steamer.” People generally put a spoonful of water in the pot when they place it on the fire; but this is unnecessary, as the flesh soon floats in its own rich gravy. It only requires pepper and salt to render it delicious. No one can tell what a steamer is unless it has been tasted; it indeed affords an excellent repast; and it is surprising that the steamer, preserved in tins, has not yet been exported to Eng- land.—Australia, by Melville. Kangaroo.—Usually mild, inoffensive animals, they are sometimes stirred up to wrath when brought to bay by dogs; and there are two instances on record, in the Bothwell district, of “ boomers ” (forester kangaroos) having seized men in their arms, and carried them for some distance, and then flung them violently down. I have seen the haunches of a boomer which weighed ninety-six pounds, and stood seven feet high. The average weight of a “brush" kangaroo is about eighteen to thirty pounds; the “ wallaby” is still less. The latter are taken in large numbers, by means of wire- snares.—Hull. The kangaroo was supposed to be an Australian word by Captain Cook, who first used it, and described the remarkable animal to which it is applied, yet it is strange that no such term is to be found in any Australian language.—Ci-awford. Koast Emeu.—This is very unctuous sort of food, and much resembles coarse beef in flavour. At the early establishment of the colony it was generally partaken of, but we cannot recommend it to the epicure, unless he has the sailor’s digestion elsewhere alluded to. In the first settlement of Hobart Town, and, we believe, Sydney, kangaroo was purchased into the public stores at a shilling a pound, and served out to the only two classes of inhabitants—the military and the bond—then in being, with a few ofBcers. Emeu can either be roasted or boiled. The emeu has almost entirely disappeared in Tasmania, and other native game are scarce. The forest kangaroo (the larger species) are very rare, and ore now preserved as much as possible. The smaller sorts of brush and wallaby are still numerous. Pea- fowl have become wild and plentiful in some districts, as weU as a smaU kind of deer. At a late meeting of the Acclimatisation Society at Melbourne, a letter was read irom