IIA3IS, BACON, AND SALT MEAT. 194 is put in a pan, and -well rubbed with a pickle composed of a poujid of salt, two ounces of saltpetre, an ounce of sal prunella., and half a pound of coarse brown sugar, well mixed together. It is covered with parsley, shalots, thyme, bay-leaves, marjoram, sweet basil, winter savory, a little coriander-seed, a table-spoonful of juniper berries, and three cloves of garlic. It is turned every day for teu days in the brine, and the herbs put on the top ; afterwards hung up and smoked. When boiled, a little vinegar must be put in the water, a couple of onions cut, a few cloves, some nutmeg, and herbs. When done, let it remain in the same liquor until cold. Putcli Beef is cured in a similar manner, being first well rubbed with brown sugar, and then a pound of salt is mixed with a quarter of a pound of saltpetre, and an ounce of juniper berries. The beef is well rubbed in with this mixture in the pan for ten days. It is then pressed, and after- wards dried and smoked. Boil it in a cloth, and do not remove it until cold. Beef Hams.—Select a leg of beef, that cannot be too fat, and rub it well with saltpetre and salt; then make a pickle of an ounce of bay-salt, an ounce of saltpetre, a pound of coarse brown sugar, and a pound of common salt. Rub this well in every day for a week, and then every other day for about three weeks; then roll it in bran or sawdust, and smoke. These kinds of hams are made very extensively in Australia, and it is a wonder that they are not largely exported. The Salt Beef of Victoria.—Some interesting proceedings have lately taken place at the office of Messrs. Dalgetty, merchants, at Melbourne, in connection with tho experiment of packing Colonial beef in casks and submitting it to the test of a voyage to England and back. This experiment was suggested by the Council of the Board of Agriculture, and two Melbourne firms entered into competition in the matter, each submitting three tierces of beef properly packed, two tierces being sent the voyage, and the remainder retained in the colony. The six tierces were opened in the presence of three judges—Captain Henry, of the Omar Pacha; Captain Norman, H.M.S. Victoria; and Mr. Bignill. Mr. Matson, the secretary of the Board of Agriculture, and other gentlemen of practical experience were present. A portion of the meat from each cask was boiled, and the judges pronounced it to be delicious in taste, colour, and condition. There was no perceptible difference between that voyaged to England and that portion retained in the colony. The nautical captains said the beef was far superior to any they received as ships’ stores. Nothing can he more satisfactory than the result of this interesting test.—Condensed from the “Melbourne Herald.” In another part of this work we have directed further attention to the circumstance of the ease with which the fleets and vessels of the mother country could be supplied with pro- visions from these colonies, at a most cheap and reasonable rate, and the urgency of a victualling yard being improvised somewhere in the Southern Hemisphere. The day will come when this idea will he carried out. South Australian and Launceston flour can be procured, the best in the world, at £ 10 per 2,000 lbs.; and by the above experiment, Mr. Bignill offers to supply excellent beef atfrorn £3 to £310s. per tierce, when au inferior article was charged in England from £0 to £6 10s. How is it possible for circumlocution to get over these facts P The Melbourne Argus states:—“Thecasks that stood the test of the voyage to England and back with the salt meat were made of the silver wattle, im- ported from Tasmania." Australians should turn their attention to the French, as a late number of La France announces the arrival at Paris of a large consignment of salt meat from Buenos Ayres, being a first attempt to open a permanent trade in that article. The immense number of horned cattle which feed on the vast plains of Buonos Ayres may thus provide a cheap kind of food for the poor in France, and on that account the plan has been encouraged by the Emperor. The meat sent over this time has been