XL—-THE COOK. “ We liave seen good families in England of the name of Cool:, or Col:e. I know not what they may think, but we. may depend on it that they all originally sprang from- some real or professional cooks, and that they need not be ashamed of their extraction, any more than the Butlers, Parkers, Grooms, &c.”—Pcgge. The status of the cooks of our day is far below their vocation. The wages of female cooks range from £15 to £40 per annum in England. We recollect seeing in the London Times, a few years since, a police case, in which the cook of the establishment of that most charitable lady, Miss Burdett Coutts, figured, and the wages that she sought to recover from her mistress were £40 per annum ; so we may assume that that is top pay for a female cook in England. In the Australias this is nearly the minimum wages of almost all house servants. Men cooks in the mother country, if they are professionals, of course receive higher salaries; but how few there are who are able to pay cooks above £20 per annum! The Edinburgh Reviero (vol. lix., page 536) tells us that of the sixteen millions of people who inhabit England there are but 108,000 who keep men servants, 152,000 who pay duty on horses, and 26,000 who possess the luxury of a four-wheeled carriage; so we may infer that only the “ upper ten thousand” employ regular cooks. We believe that nearly as many are employed in the Australias. We are informed that Careme, when chef to George IV., had the promise of a salary of £1,000 per annum [the London aldermen were in the habit of giving enormous prices for his state pates'], and that the Earl of Sefton paid Ure £300 per annum, and left him £100 a year at his death. What Franeatelli received in royal service we do not know. Soyer made more by his works than he did by his labour, and the “ Art of Dining” has it that his execution was not equal to his conception. The British public are bound, however, to respect his memory, as his conduct in going to the Crimea to super- intend the hospital cuisine, and his visiting Ireland during the famine,, to reform the cookery there, was beyond all praise. We believe it to be a fact that the celebrated chef to the late Marquis of Abercorn refused to accompany the Duke of Bichmond as lord-lieutenant to Ireland, at a salary of £400 per annum, on learning that there was no Italian Opera iu Dublin. So much for the stars of the profession; now for the com- monalty. Pity the sorrows of a poor cook at £15 per annum, who is serving under “the Limited Liability Act” as to tea and sugar. She must be neat and clean, orderly in habit, good tempered, obliging, and respectful; she must keep the kitchen tidy and have everything in its place, and a place for everything; she is, moreover, required to think, and to cook breakfasts, luncheons, and dinners without a fault, aud to make pap, broth, and gruel between the heats, as they say in horse-racing; she must be ready to cook a hot supper when necessary, as the master, or mistress, or Master Tom, Dick, and Harry can’t bear cold things ; she will be also required to do a great deal of nursing, must be up late and