28 MADE DISHES. Cold Meat, with Poached Eggs.—Cut slices of beef or mutton of equal thickness, and either broil, fry, or brown, in an oven before the fire. Lay them in a dish to keep warm, while you poach eggs and mash potatoes; or you may fry potatoes and greens. Place the vegetables on the dish, the meat on the top, and garnish with the poached eggs. Tripe Stewed.—Put the tripe into a stewpan, with onions whole (at least a dozen), and some sweet herbs. Add a pint of milk or stock, and let it simmer for a time. Add an ounce of butter mixed with flour, white pepper, salt, and a little spice. Some use a little white wine, but it overcomes the palate, and is hardly a favourite ; but chacun a son gout. Tripe is by no means a fashionable food, but it is easy of digestion, and is good what- ever way it is cooked, whether boiled, stewed, fried, forced, roasted, or in a pie. If tender, fried in butter is one of the best ways of cooking it. Cotelettes a la Soubise.—Take ten cutlets, or more, according to your party ; do not pare or shape them, and take care that each cutlet has a bone. Lard them, and season your larding before you use it. Stew them in good braise for three or four hours. When done put them on a tin plate, with another cover on it, on which you place a weight to make the cutlets a good shape. When they are cold trim them neatly and fry them. When you serve them, place them either in a crown, or one bone over the other in a sort of pyramid, with small stewed onions round, and in the middle a puree of onions. Mutton cutlets can also bo served with chicory sauce, or turnips, mushrooms or cucumber strewed and served round, or with a puree of either in place of the onions. Stewed Beef.—The rump, or any part of the beef, will make an excellent stew. The way to proceed is as follows:—Take three or four pounds, and trim it; add sweet herbs chopped fine, a little shalot, and spice whole; add a little bacon cut in slips; lard the beef, and rub it over with the herbs and spices, flour, and a small bit of butter. The beef can either be stewed or baked in an oven. It is an excellent dish, either hot or cold; and, in serving it up, it may be garnished with pickles. This, again, is a braise. Brazilian Stew.—Take shin or leg of beef; cut it into slices of two or three ounces each; dip it in good and, with or without \ onions, or any other flavouring or vegetable substances, put it into a stewpan, without water. Let it stand on the hot hearth, or by a slow fire, for two, three, or four hours, when it will be thoroughly done, will have yielded plenty of gravy, and be “as tender as a chicken.” Care must be taken that the heat is moderate. This is the Brazilian mode. Leg or shin of beef makes the richest and most nutritious stew, and any other meat or fish may be so dressed. A pound and a half of leg of beef, without bone, so dressed, and plenty of vegetables, will dine four persons luxuriously. Einoles.—Take short paste, roll very thin, and cut it into small round pieces. But into them some hashed meat, or forcemeat, and gather up the paste over it; moisten the edges, and press them securely together