10 ROASTING. and roast until well done. Serve with, gravy, and grate some horse- radish over the top before coming on the table. Care should be always taken that the meat should not be under-done, nor ought it to be over-dressed; for, although in this latter state it may contain more nutriment, yet it is less digestible, on account of the density of its texture.—>Spallarisani on Digestion- Boiled, and roasted, and even putrid meat, is easier of digestion than that which is raw. —Hunter on the Animal Economy. A well-cooked piece of meat should be full of its own juice or natural gravy.—Johnston’s Chemistry of Common Life. Roast Ox Tongue.—Put before the fire in a cradle spit, and baste it well when being roasted. When done, stick cloves in the tongue, in the part uppermost in the dish. Make some gravy with port wine, rather thick, and add the juice of a lemon. Serve hot. This is a very good dish, and the cook must not forget to peel the outside skin off before putting the tongue down, as well as trim the root. Roast Mutton.—Gently stir and blow the fire, Lay the mutton down to roast; Dress it quickly, I desire ; In the dripping put a toast, That I hunger may remove ; Mutton is the meat I love. On the dresser see it lie; Oh, the charming white and red! Firmer meat ne’er met the eye, On the sweetest grass it fed; Let the jack go quickly round, Let me have it nicely brown’d. On the table spread the cloth, Let the knives be sharp and clean ; Pickles get, and salad both, Let them each be fresh and green. With small beer, good ale, and wine, Oh, ye gods! how I shall dine! Dean Swift. All or any parts of tbe sbeep are good roasted; the leg, the shoulder, the saddle or loin, or even the neck. Good mutton requires no sauce or condiment, but a good appe- tite. If the diner requires a zest to a leg, saddle of mutton, or shoulder, he may have sharp, onion, oyster, or celery sauce, and the thin flank is exceUent cold for breakfast after being stuffed with sage and onion, roUed and browned by being roasted or put in a quick oven. A cook who understands her business can make an epicurean dish out of the head and fry; and even the feet, well cleansed and stewed, are excellent. The kidneys -dressed plain, broiled, kibobbed, or they may be extravagantly stewed in champagne, cl la mode de Paris. Broiled mutton bones are first-rate picking. If the mutton is kept, no meat is sweeter or more wholesome. So thought the late Duke of Devonshire; while George IV. preferred the neck roasted. The cook must alwdjip remember— “ A feast must he without a fault; And if’tis not all right, 'tis naught.” Best Age for Mutton.—Tho sheep is in its best condition as food when about five years old—an age which it is almost never allowed to attain, unless when intended for the private use of the owner and not for market. It is then sapid, full-flavoured, and firm, without being tough; and the fat has become hard. At three years old, as com- monly procured from the butcher, it is well tasted, but is by no means comparable to