48 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. been the coagulating lymph, and that the serum had been separated in the act of coagulation as usual. The serum is commonly of a yellowish colour, sometimes more so than at others; and this I should conceive arises from the substances dissolved in it*, by means of the water it contains ; for it probably suspends every salt soluble in water, many of which are dissolved in it. If serum be not coagulable in itself, though it contains a large quantity of coagulable matter, yet I conceive it to be in a more fluid state when circulating. As it is separated from a com- pound mass, it appears in this respect to be somewhat similar to the whey of milk, though not exactly. This fluid undergoes no spontaneous changes, but what may arise from its separation from the coagulating lymph, except putrefaction. Though not coagulable in itself, yet one of its properties out of the body is to coagulate upon the application of certain substances. This is the principal change it undergoes; and during this process, it more or less separates into two parts, one of which is not coagulable by such means. The coagulable part, which I now mean to describe, seems to be in some degree the same with that in the white of an egg, synovia, &c., and many other secretions, but not exactly; for those secretions con- tain, as I conceive, a quantity of the coagulating lymph united to them, which makes them in part coagulate after secretion; and the further coagulation of those secretions afterwards, by mixture with other sub- stances, is owing to this part of the serum. Though the serum is coagu- lable under certain circumstances, and with certain mixtures, yet this power or effect may be prevented by other mixtures. Heat, to a cer- tain degree, coagulates this part; and probably this is the only test necessary to know whether a fluid found anywhere in the body, not coagulable in itself, is this part of the serum; but as many substances do also coagulate it, I shall mention a few of them, although to me their effects do not seem to throw any light on the subject. Heat co- agulates the serum at 160° or 165°; it stood at 150° for some time perfectly fluid. There is a great deal of air contained in the serum, which is let loose by heat; but not when it is coagulated by other means. The serum which was a little whitish coagulated in that degree of heat necessary for separating its air, which was extricated in very large quan- tities. 'This coagulum becomes first like the synovia, and then thicker. Many substances which do not coagulate this part of the serum do not, however, hinder its coagulation by heat; such as vinegar, acid of lemon, salt of wormwood, nitre, sea-salt"1. * The red globules are suspended without being dissolved in the serum, in which they are commonly examined. [According to the best analyses, synovia and the white of egg do not contain any