300 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. coming new causes, the suppurative naturally taking place in the time of the first, and the ulcerative in consequence of the suppurative, which has called forth the action of another system of vessels, the absorbents; all of which may be reckoned as three different modes of action arising from the first irritation or cause. The adhesive as also the suppurative inflammation, either in the first or second orders of parts, with their varieties, may have a principle super- added which does not in the least alter their inflammatory mode of ac- tion, which still continues to go on. This principle is some specific disposition from scrofula or poisons, as the venereal, smallpox, &c. These three different modes of action, viz. the adhesive, the suppu- rative, and the ulcerative, when carried on perfectly, are generally the effects of a good constitution, seldom attending the unhealthy: they are Avhat I would call common inflammation. I have already observed that common inflammation either takes place in parts that constitute the largest part of an animal, -which are all the circumscribed cavities, all the cellular membrane, and the substance of every part, the two last of -which are the most universal; or upon in- terned canals or outlets, which are, in common, onlv excretory ducts. I have also observed that whenever any extraneous matter is to be discharged, whether already existing, as matter already formed, or a ball lodged, &c., or only preparatory to its formation, such as inflammation that has a disposition to suppurate, the inflammation is always greatest and extends furthest on that side next to the skin: for instance, sup- pose that a man is shot in the thigh, that the ball passes through to within an inch or two of the opposite side, and that it has not deadened any part for an inch or two of the last part of its passage so as to allow this part to unite, we shall find if that ball excites inflammation it will not be along its passage, where we should (without knowing the prin- ciple) have mostly expected it, but the inflammation will commence on that side next to the opposite skin that has not in the least been hurt. If the ball passes quite through, and a piece of cloth is carried in, which lies in the middle between the two orifices; if the passage is pretty superficial, say only an inch distant from the skin where the cloth lies, but which is two or three inches from either orifice, we shall find that the inflammation for its exit will not lead to either orifice, but directly across to the skina. [That is, tile ball or the piece-of cloth produces the greatest inflammation in that part where the stimulus of its presence is most felt, which is in the immediate spot where it is lodged, while the external parts being more extensible than the internal, the in- flammation and ulceration necessarily take the former direction. This fact of the greater ; extensibility of the external parts removes much of the mystery which has been gene-