57 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. when viewed in the microscope, I could not observe anything like glo- bules or flakes, although the magnifier was a deep o«ne. The red glo- bules when mixed with it were the same as in common serum. It dried uniformly like size. Blood was taken away from the arm, being of no particular quality, except in having a wheyish serum, and was allowed to stand quiet in order to see the spontaneous changes of this serum. The white part came to the top like cream, being therefore lighter than the serum, and was very white when collected. When viewed in a microscope it was plainly globular, but the globules were smaller than those of red blood. They did not seem to be dissolved when mixed with water, as red glo- bules are. Thomas Skelton, a publican, forty-seven years of age, being rather lusty, and subject to frequent colds, attended with coughs, hoarseness, and a discharge of matter from the lungs or throat, but otherwise en- joying a good state of health, was attacked with a violent cold, together with a- difficulty of breathing, for which he applied to Mr. Wilson, apo- thecary, who took twelve ounces of blood from his arm, which relieved him greatly. He had taken some bread and butter, with some tea without milk, about four hours before he was bled. The blood coagu- lated firmly, and the serum which separated was of a white colour with a yellowish tinge, appearing like the colour of cream ; upon the top of this floated a whiter scum, like another cream. On viewing this cream in a microscope it had a flaky appearance ; it did not coagulate sooner than common serum. In spirits of wine a white mixture was produced, which, on standing, fell to the bottom of the glass : this most probably arose from the serum, with which it was mixed, coagulating. The globules of white serum differ from the red globules in colour, specific gravity, size, and in not dissolving in water. To see how far this is chyle, it would be proper to try the chyle in the same way in serum, &c. After dipping a bit of blotting-paper into the cream, and absorbing all of it, and also dipping a piece of the same paper into the serum, and drying them, I burnt them both, to see if one burnt more briskly than the other; but there appeared to be no difference. The white part of the white serum sunk in water. §.4. Of the Red Globules. The red part of the blood I choose to consider last, although it has been more the object of attention than the other two, because I believe