OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 430 the same effect as that which arises from disagreeable applications to the stomach itself; which accounts for that viscus taking part in all constitutional affections. I am inclined to believe that sympathy of the stomach which occasions sickness arises from causes producing weak- ness or debility. It takes place from injuries or disorders of the brain, which occasion universal debility; it arises from loss of blood, and also from epileptic fits. How far the sickness is to be considered as an effect which is to produce action, viz. vomiting, and which action is to reflect strength back upon the constitution, I do not know; but it is certain that people who are sick and going to faint are prevented by the action of vomiting; the act of vomiting, therefore, appears often to be a cause of the prevention of the fits coming on, by rousing up the actions of life. The rigors I should be apt to suspect arise from weakness at the time. A sudden alteration, a sudden call, or a sudden and universal irritation upon the constitution will, I imagine, produce immediate weakness ; for every new action in a constitution must produce or tend to produce a weakness in that function, the effects of which will vary according to the necessity and state of the constitution. In some cases where the constitution is strong, and as it were equal of itself to the task, it will call up the animal powers to action, and produce the hot fit of a fever; but in weak constitutions, or in such as threaten dissolution, as in many diseases, especially towards the close, it loses by every rigor, and is sel- dom capable of producing a hot fit, but only occasions a cold clammy sweat; hence cold sweats, when a person is in extremities, is a com- mon symptom. That rigors are an effect of every sudden change in the constitution, and are not peculiar to the commencement of disease, is evident from the following cases ; which also prove that even the change to health shall produce the same effect, so that not only in its commence- ment and in its different stages a disease shall produce rigors, but in its termination or crisis. A boy about eleven months [years?]‘old was taken ill with a complaint, which could not be well understood from the symptoms, and which came on insensibly : his pulse was quick and full, for which he was bled three times, and the blood was rather sizy; the tongue was white; he was not very hot, but uneasy and restless, with loss of appetite. His stools were upon the whole pretty natural; he was observed to be every other day rather worse, although there never was a perfect intermission, but only a kind of remission. After having been ill for about a fortuight in this way, he was taken with a cold shivering fit, succeeded by a hot fit, and then a sweat. My opinion was that the disease was now formed, and that he would have more at the intermitting times ; but he had no more after. In short, the disease formed itself into that which has but one fit, and in this formation he had those symptoms. I have seen the