OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 170 although it i9 still of use, through the whole, to preserve the middle state. Elasticity is better adapted to sustain a force than muscular power: for an elastic body recovers itself again, whenever the stretch- ing cause suspends its action, while muscles endeavour to adapt them- selves to circumstances as they arise. This is verified by different sorts of engines whose pipes are made of different metals. A pipe made of lead, for instance, will in time dilate and become useless* ; whereas a pipe of iron will react on the fluid, if the force of the fluid be in pro- portion to the elastic power of the iron: but the lead having little or no elasticity, whenever it is stretched it will remain so, and every new force will stretch it more and more. We are therefore to suppose that the force of the heart is not capable of stretching the artery so much as to destroy its elasticity; or, in other words, the force of the heart is not able to dilate the artery beyond the contracting power. As the motion of the blood is mechanical, elasticity is best adapted to take off the immediate force of the heart; and as we go from the heart this property becomes less necessary, because in this course the influence of the heart is gradually lessened, by which means a more equal motion of the blood is immediately produced, and even in the first artery a continued stream is at all times obtained, although it is con- siderably increased by each contraction of the heart. Without this power the motion of the blood in the aorta would have been similar to what it is in its passage out of the heart, and would have been nearly the same in every part of the arterial system. For though the motion of the blood out of the heart be by interrupted jerks, yet the whole ar- terial tube being more or less elastic, the motion of the blood becomes gradually more uniform from this cause. Elasticity in arteries acts like a pair of double bellows : although their motion be alternate, the stream of air is continued; and if it were to pass through a long elastic pipe, resembling an artery, the current of air would be still more uniform®. The advantage arising from elasticity in the arterial sj'stem will lie more complete in the young subject than in the old: for in the latter, the * This accounts for the size of aneurisms in arteries whose coats must have lost their elasticity before they could be dilated. » [ The application of this principle in the construction of water-pumps and fire- engines is extremely simple. It consists in making the water pass through a chamber of condensed air, the elasticity of which causes the water to issue fortli in a continued and uniform stream, instead of by jerks. This transformation of an alternating into a continued action may be expressed in the following proposition of mechanics. Every intermitting motion may be converted into a continued one, by employing the original force to compress a reservoir or spring, which keeps up a constant reaction.]