152 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. a state the furthest removed from the extremes which were uneasy, and by which the stimulus arising from both is equally balanced. lliis, however, can only happen in such parts of the body as are fur- nished with muscular elongators ; where these axe wanting, the muscles of the part having but one office, their state of ease is that of simple relaxation, as they can have no middle state from the action of antago- nists ; but such are commonly muscular parts, or so constructed as not to be thrown into an uneasy position by the action of their muscles. I suppose, however, that the elongated state of a muscle is an uneasy state: a muscle, therefore, that is stretched, although in a relaxed state, is uneasy, and will contract a certain length, to what is probably the middle state. Still it is necessary that such parts as are simply muscular, and have no antagonist muscles appropriated immediately for such purposes, should have their muscles elongated; this is still performed by muscles, but in a secondary way; for instance, by a succession of actions in dif- ferent parts, each performing the same effect, and the last action be- coming an antagonist to the succeeding. This second mode of elongation takes place in all the musctes which assist in forming canals. In them the muscles, if once contracted, can- not be elongated, or the part dilated again, unless by the contraction of some other part of the canal, propelling its contents into the relaxed part, and by that means serving as an elongator. This, in some in- stances, goes on in regular succession, as we know the dilatation of the fauces to be occasioned by the action of the mouth and tongue ; that of the oesophagus, by the contraction of the fauces; of the stomach, by that of the oesophagus ; the upper part of the intestines, by the stomach, and so on; the successive contractions of the last dilated parts pushing on the contents, and in that manner becoming elongators of the mus- cles next in succession of action. A first propelling power, such as a heart, could in these instances have had but little effect, and would even have been unnecessary ; for as there must be a succession of con- tractions and dilatations, its power would soon have been lost. This mode of propelling substances through canals, as stated above, would probably have been too slow for the circulation in many animals, but I believe it is very much the case in others. The elongation of the muscles of the bladder, from the distention of urine, becomes the means by which they are excited to recover them- selves so as to renew their action, and may be referred to the same ge- neral head. The third kind is by means of elastic substances, which render the combined actions produced by muscular contraction and elasticity more