FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 271 the actions of the parts themselves ; while no such effect takes place in the valves of the pulmonary artery: even an aneurism proves the same. Where there is a difference in structure there are comparative powers to resist the consequences of actions, attended with injury, such as their admitting more or less readily of thickening, ulceration, or mortification, and their comparative powers of restoration. When we compare the powers of restoration in muscle, nerve, cellular membrane, ligament, tendon, bone, etc. with each other, they are found to be very different. Muscles, skin, and probably nerves, possess the greatest powers of that kind; and the cellular membrane, ligament, tendon, bone, etc. the least, and are, in this respect, pretty equal among themselves. How far elastic ligaments have powers of resistance and repair I do not know, but I should suppose they have them in a very considerable degree, from the vessels not giving way so readily as in many of the others". Their comparative powers become pretty evident in most of their dis- eases, but chiefly, I think, in mortification. As mortification is the most simple effect of debility, it gives the comparative powers of parts in the most simple manner. We find that muscles, skin, and often blood-vessels, stand their ground, while they are deprived of their con- * [It is singular that Hunter should attribute to the cellular membrane so low a power of reparation, when in fact it would seem to possess this power in a higher de'- grec t tan any other tissue of the body. Cruveilhier declares it to be the only self- repairing tissue, and that by means of which the actions of restoration are carried on in all the others ; and accordingly, we find that as we descend the animal scale, and the other tissues disappear, leaving the animal more and more largely indebted to the cellular membrane tor Us composition, so does the power of reproducing mutilated parts increase. The power of reparation and reproduction enjoyed by this tissue, as compared with its other vital endowments (which seem to be of the lowest kind), is certainly not a little extraordinary, and seems to rank with the analogous fact of the superior tenacity of life in the lower animals, which obviously increases as the organization becomes more and more simple,-the powers of action not being in them, as our author supposed in regard to the higher animals, any indication of the powers of life (see pp. 3 and 229 mte) but seemingly the reverse; the energy and variety of action of any part or animal being tTon ihi H° ,CnaCity °f ‘ife and thC P°WerS °f rePr°duCti°" ■"* -para ; rh,S f“C aff0rds some ground opinion of Blumenbach, that generation re- production, and reparation are merely to be regarded as modifications of the same process, may perhaps be stated in general terms, that the proneness of parts to fall into r ,r°m "■ "h“ ^ from the ho.lthy Tsculari v"6!.^ pr°POrtIOn t0 each other- a"d -ry nearly in proportion to their and of ani 0m, ,y °‘ °r«aniz!Uion- Thus the inflammation of bone, cartilage, ami of the white tissues generally, is much more intractable and much slower inltl p ogress than that ot the more vascular parts; but then the former parts are much less cZTJV0 T™ i,:flamed’ being- as il were« wisely protected by tbeir want of vas- l*e obnoxious tV1'S t0 Wh'ch’ fr°m lhcir situation and USC9> thc>’ «ould otherwise