THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 337 •sarnie way, from the sympathizing intercourse between the skin and the stomach. That diseases augment or lessen this power in the animal is evident; i' for in many diseases the animal becomes much hotter, and in many others much colder than is usual to it. This fact was first discovered by simple sensation alone, both to the patients themselves and the prac- ■ titioner, before the absolute measurement of the degrees of heat by in- - struments was known; but it was impossible that such knowledge of it could be accurate, for we find by experiment that the measurement of degrees of heat by sensation is very vague. This happens because the degree of heat in ourselves (which in such experiments is the instru- ment) is not of one standard, but must vary pretty much before we are made sensible of the difference, and therefore there can be only a rela- tive knowledge respecting our own heat at the time. But now our measurement is more determined, and can be brought even nearer to the truth than is absolutely necessary to be known in disease. The increase and decrease of the heat of an animal body may be di- vided into constitutional and local. The constitutional arises from a constitutional affection, and may arise primarily in the constitution itself; or it probably may arise secondarily, as from a local disease with which the constitution sympathizes ; but of this I am not yet certain, for from several experiments made to ascertain this point, it seemed to appear that local inflammation had little power of increasing the heat of the body beyond the natural standard, although the body was under the influence of the inflammation by sympathy, called the symptomatic fever ; but if the heat of the body is below the natural heat, or that heat where actions, whether natural or diseased, are called forth, then the heat of the body is raised to its natural standard*. As it is the principle of increase of local heat in inflammation I am now to consider, it should be first ascertained how far such a principle exists in a part, and what that principle may be; the constitutional orinciple being in some measure not to the present purpose, although it nay throw some light on the difference between the powers of the con- stitutional and those of the local principle. It is said that disease, as ever, has been known to raise the heat of the body to twelve degrees ibove the natural heat; and if so, then there is in such cases either an ncreased power or an increased exertion of that power; and to know vhether this arises only from a constitutional affection at large, or whether it can take place in parts when the constitution is affected by hose parts, is worthy of inquiry. * Vide Animal (Economy, iv. 131.