OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 553 it will be better to do it at the beginning before inflammation comes on; for the inflammation, in consequence of both, will be slight; but in slight cases dilatation will never be necessary, except to allow of the extrac- tion of some extraneous body that is near. But if the wound is a con- siderable one, and it should appear upon consideration that you cannot relieve immediately any particular part or the constitution, then you can gain nothing by opening immediately, but will only increase the inflammation, and in some cases the inflammation arising from the ac- cident and opening together may be too much for the patient: under this last circumstance it would be more advisable to wait till the first inflammation ceases, by which means the patient will stand a much better chance of a cure, if not of his life ; therefore it is much better to divide the inflammations : however, it is possible that the inflammation may arise from some circumstance in the wound which could be re- moved by opening it; for instance, a ball or broken bone pressing upon some part, whose actions are either essential to the life of the part or the whole, as some large artery, nerve, or vital part; in such the case will determine for itself. On the other hand, it may in many cases be better to remove the whole by an operation, when in such parts as will admit of it, which will be taken notice of. 2. If an artery is wounded, where the patient is likely to become either too weak, or to lose his life from the loss of blood, then cer- tainly the vessel is to be tied, and most probably this cannot be done without previously opening the external parts, and often freely. 3. In a wound of the head where there is reason to suspect a frac- ture of the skull, it is necessary to open the scalp, as in any other com- mon injury done to the head where there was reason to suspect a frac- ture ; and when opened, if a fracture is found, it is to be treated as any other fractured skull8. 4. Where there are fractured bones in any part of the body, which can be immediately extracted with advantage, and which would do much mischief if left, this becomes a compound fracture wherever it is, and it makes no difference in the treatment whether the wound in the skin was made by a ball or the bone itself, at least where the compound fracture is allowed to suppurate; for there is often a possibility of treating a compound fracture as a simple one, which gun-shot fractures, if I may be allowed the expression, seldom will allow of; but where the com- pound fracture must suppurate, there they are very similar. However, there have been instances where a fracture of the thigh-bone made by a ball has healed in the same way as a compound fracture by other means. * [See Vol. I. p. 190, note,]