OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 229 when the arteries contract, as in many fevers, the veins rather dilate, more especially the larger®. • [I. order ft,. ft. ro.d.r nr.y p.rr.iv. « », ft. dito.n. retorion. io »hich ft. “circulation" may b« »i.».d, I .ball, very bri.dy advert to ft. (ore. which supposed to cooperate in this function. . . . 1 The heart is undoubtedly the main agent of the circulation in all warm-blooded i animals. According to Dr. Hales, the left ventricle ordinarily exerts a force of abou ifil-5 pounds, and propels the blood into the arteries with a force equivalent to about four pounds to each square inch of the arterial surface. The accuracy, however of these deductions has lately been called in question by M. Poiseuille, and apparen y twith good reason. (Journ. de Phys., par Majendie, ix. 351.) 2. The arteries were regarded by Hunter as a sort of supplementary heart, scarcely less instrumental in the propulsion of the blood than the heart itself; although s .probable that in this estimate he was as much mistaken on the one hand as Dr. Arnott lias lately been on the other in denying their agency altogether. (Elem. of Physics, 5 th edit., i. 555.) I shall not, however enter here into the controverted question respecting the muscularity of the arteries, which appears to me to be a dispute about words rather than facts, for that the arteries possess a power of varying their calibre, quite^indepen- dently of the force e tergo, is proved by the most indisputable facts (see p. 161 et seq.). r Admitting, therefore, the muscularity of the arteries as a tact, the question arises, in what : manner is the circulation affected by it? It is objected to the author s explanation of the :iaction of the arteries, 1st, that if the arteries were extensively elastic, the intermittent s stream in the arteries would soon be converted into a continuous one; 2nd, that no ver- nmicular or progressive motion in the arteries has yet been observed; 3rd, that no dia- rmetrical enlargement is visible in the living body; and 4tli, that it is impossible to cexplain the almost perfect instantaneity of the pulse in all parts of the body, on the supposition that the tubes through which it is propagated are in a relaxed state. It is supposed, on the contrary, that the contractile fibres of the vessels operate at the same 'moment with the heart, so as to induce a rigidity of the whole arterial system, in order that the heart may produce its effect through all the vessels, almost 3S it would through • tubes of metal. (.Arnott ut supra.) Now the first of these objections does not apply, ‘ because such extensive elasticity as is supposed to exist does not occur, for even in the , dead body the pulse may be imitated; neither does the second objection apply much , better, because the very assumption that the pulse depends on the transmission of a wave of blood, presupposes a certain interval of time, and consequently a progressi\ e j dilatation. The third objection has been adverted to already (see note, p. 216.), to which I may add, that Poiseuille found, by direct and careful experiment, that the artery ’ apparently dilated with each systole of the heart, that it reacted with a force superior to the impressing impulse, and that the arterial tension was nearly the same in all parts of the system at the same time. (Journ. de Phys., par Majendie, viii. 296. ix. 48, 50.) 'The fourth and last objection equally falls to the ground, when it is recollected that no such rigidity as is supposed to be necessary for the propagation of the pulse actually occurs, for the isoclironism of the pulse is equally conspicuous in all states of the arterial tension, and is scarcely less remarkable in the dead body. When the heart contracts, a wave of blood is impelled into the arterial system, al- j ready full of blood, and the phenomena which immediately follow7 are, 1st, an onward I motion of the whole column of blood; and 2nd, a dilatation of the arteries in all direc- i tions, which dilatation can only take place at the expense of the force first exerted by the heart, but instantly reacts in the same proportion, so that no power is really lost, except what arises from friction, which is probably more than compensated for by the