OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 5C)3 2 o 2 it attaches the colon to the loins, passed behind the ascending colon, and just appeared at the right side of the root of the mesentery where the colon is attached; passed behind the root of the mesentery, and en- tered the lower turn of the duodenum as it crosses the spine ; then passed out of that gut on the left of the mesentery, and in its course to the left side it went through the jejunum, about a foot from its beginning; then through between two folds of the lower part of the jejunum, taking a piece out of each; then passed before the descending part of the colon, and pierced the peritoneum of the left side, as also some of the muscles, but not the skin, and was immediately cut put exactly in the same place on the left where it entered at the right; so it must have passed perfectly in a horizontal direction. There was no appearance of extravasation of any of the contents of the intestines loose in the cavity of the abdomen. The intestines in many places were adhering to one another, especially near to the wounds, which adhesions were recent, and of course very slight; yet they showed a ready disposition for union to prevent the secondary symptoms, or what may be called the consequent, which would also have proved fatal. There was little or no fluid in the small intestines, but there was a good deal of substance in consistence like faeces, in broken pieces about the size of a nut, through the whole track of the intestine, even in the stomach, which he vomited up ; but in the upper end of the jejunum, as also in the duodenum, there was some fluid mixed with the other; but that fluid seemed to be rather bile. If this solid part was excrement, then the valve of the colon must not have done its duty. Was all the thin part absorbed to hinder extravasation into the belly ? or was it all brought back into the stomach to be vomited up ? There was a good deal of air in the ascending, but more especially in the transverse turn of the colon. This case admits of several observations and queries. First, the lowness and gradual sinking, with the vomiting without blood, bespoke wounded intestines, and those pretty high up. It shows how ready Nature is to secure all unnatural passages, according to the necessity. Query, what could be the cause of his having no stool, even from the clyster ? Were the intestines inclinable to be quiet under such circum- * stances ? Would he not have lived if the immediate mischief had not been too much ? I think that if the immediate cause of death had not been so violent. Nature would have secured the parts from the second- ary, viz. the extravasation of the faeces. What is the best practice where it is supposed an intestine may be wounded ? I should suppose the very best practice would be to be quiet