348 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. extravasation is at an end. Thus we see in (what we may suppose) inflammation of the heart, that the coagulating lymph is thrown out on the exterior surface in vast quantities, while at the same time the heart shall not adhere to the pericardium. This is not only seen in the human subject, but in other animals : in an ox the heart was furred all over, and in some places the coagulating lymph was near an inch in thick- ness. The external surface of such hearts has an uncommon appear- ance : the outer surface of the coagulable lymph is extremely irregular, appearing very much like the external surface of a sponge, while the base or attachment to the heart is very solid and firm. However, in many instances we find the pericardium adhering to the heart, and ge- nerally in pretty close contact, which would make us suppose that the extent of motion of those two parts on one another is not great. These adhesions affect the pulse much, which is a good reason why nature avoids them as much as possible. On the other hand, it seems dedu- cible from observation that neither the pia-mater nor dura-mater is apt to throw out much coagulating lymph, for here it would produce com- pression ; and therefore we seldom find adhesions between them, in consequence of such accidents as produce suppuration between these two membranes : we seldom if ever find the surrounding parts adhering so as to confine the matter to the suppurating surface. Inflammation of the skin, or such as approaches to the skin, produces in general a separation of the cuticle, often of the hair or the nails. These effects arise sooner or later, according to the nature and degree of the inflammation, but more particularly according to its nature ; they take place the least and latest in the true adhesive inflammation, which is always attended with the greatest strength. In such cases the se- paration does not happen till the inflammation has subsided; and, as a proof of this, in the gout it is least and latest of all, for this is always a healthy inflammation, otherwise it would not take place; but in weak habits, at the early part of the disease, there are often vesications, which are filled with serum, sometimes with coagulating lymph, &c., both of which are sometimes tinged with red blood. When the inflammation is of a weak kind, tending to mortification, the cuticle commonly sepa- rates early during the time of inflammation, almost beginning with it, and of course the vesications will be filled with serum, and often with the red globules. We may observe in wounds of the skin which arc not allowed to heal by the first intention, that a separation of the cuticle will take place at the edges of the wound, and this will extend accord- ing to the nature of the inflammation, which is according to the nature of the constitution. This will be attended with other concomitant ap- pearances, such as flabby edges and thin matter. I conceive in the weak