GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 51 called game, we find the above observations hold good. I likewise observe that animals which have not had exercise, such as house-lamb, veal, &c., have less of this fluid than those of the same class which have been allowed to go at large. Nothing can be drier than the English veal, though kept to a greater age than anywhere else ; while it is juicy in every other country, though killed much younger. In many of the trials respecting the coagulation of the serum, I ob- • served that it had in some cases much more coagulum than in others; and of course a less proportion of the fluid part that separated, and vice versd; from the above observations too I conceived that a defici- : ency of this fluid part bespoke a greater quantity of coagulating matter in the serum; and to ascertain this I took the serum of persons of dif- ferent ages. This fluid, like the serum itself when united with the co- agulating lymph, appears only to be mixed with the serum; for it is separated in the living body for many purposes of the oeconomy; it is not therefore serum in another form, but a distinct fluid, which before coagulation is mingled with the serum, and seems to make a part of it. The following experiments are, perhaps, not perfectly conclusive, for many were obliged to be made on blood taken from those who were not perfectly in health ; peculiar dispositions in the body may make a ma- terial difference in the serum. It is probable, however, that disease may not have any great effect upon the serum; for I found, from ex- periment, that the serum of blood taken from a person labouring under an inflammatory complaint, and the serum of blood in a case not at all inflammatory, were nearly the same respecting coagulation and the quan- tity of matter not coagulable by heat. The serum of a man fifty-six years of age, who had met with a slight accident, and was of a healthy constitution, coagulated by heat almost wholly into a pretty firm coagulum, separating only a small portion of that fluid which is not coagulable by such means. The serum of the blood of a man seventy-two years of age, of a healthy constitution, hardly coagulated by heat, became only a little thicker, and formed a small coagulum, adhering to the bottom of the vessel. With spirits it formed but a very small quantity of coagulable matter. On putting about three fourths of water to the blood of the person aged fifty-six, and heating it as above, it coagulated much in the same way with the been adverted to in a previous note. The serosity does not appear to merit any par- ticular attention. The basis of muscular fibre, or meat properly so called, is fibrin, which is insoluble, except in very minute quantities, by the continued action of boiling water. Jeily is a solution of gelatine, which is a distinct animal principle, with which young animals abound, but which, according to Front, is a less animalized product than either albu- men or fibrin.]