UNION BY THE FIIIST INTENTION. 258 fore, can be brought together, and especially where some force is re- quired for that purpose, from the skin not being in large quantity, the sticking-plaster is certainly the best application. This happens frequently to be the case after the removal of tumours, in amputations, or where the sides of the wound are only to be brought together at one end, as in the hare-lip ; and I think the difference between Mr. Sharp’s cross- stitch, after amputation, as recommended in liis Critical Enquiries, and Mr. Alison’s practice, shows strongly the superiority of the sticking- plaster or dry suture. In those parts of the body where the skin re- cedes more than in others, this treatment becomes most necessary ; and as the scalp probably recedes as little as any, it is therefore seldom ne- cessary to apply anything in wounds of that part. The practice will certainly answer best in superficial wounds, because the bottom is in these cases more within its influence. The sticking-plasters should be laid on in stripes, and these should be at small distances from each other, viz. about a quarter of an inch at most, if the part requires close confinement; but when it does not, they may be at greater distances. This precaution becomes more necessary if the bleeding is not quite stopped, for there should be passages left for the exit of blood, as its accumulation might prevent the union, although this does not always happen. If any extraneous body, such as a liga- ture, should have been left in the wound, suppuration will take place, and the matter should be allowed to vent at some of those openings or spaces between the slips of plaster. I have known a very considerable abscess formed in consequence of this precaution being neglected, by which the whole of the recently united parts has been separated. The interrupted suture, which has generally been recommended in large wounds, is still in use, but seldom proves equal to the intention. This we may reckon to be the only one that deserves the name of su- ture ; it was formerly used, but is now' in a great measure laid aside in practice, not from the impropriety of uniting parts by this process, but from the ineffectual mode of attempting it. In what manner better methods could be contrived, I have not been able to suggest. It is to be understood that the above methods of bringing wounded parts to- gether, in order to unite, are only to be put in practice in such cases as vrill admit of it; for if there was a method known, which in all cases would bring the wounded surfaces into contact, it would in many in- stances be improper, as some wounds are attended with contusion, bj which the parts have been more or less deadened ; in such cases, as was formerly observed, union cannot take place according to our first prin- ciple, and therefore it is improper to attempt it. In many wounds which are not attended with contusion, when we either know or suspect that extraneous bodies have been introduce