192 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. duces a restoration of the circulation or heart’s motion. Thus, in my experiments on artificial breathing, the heart soon ceased acting when- ever I left off acting with my bellows ; and upon renewing my artificial breathing, it, in a very short time, renewed its action, first by slow de- grees, but became quicker and quicker till it came to its full action. I believe this experiment cannot be reversed; we cannot make an this question. The heart’s action has been maintained by means of artificial respiration for upwards of two hours and a half after decapitation; and even acephalous fcetuses have survived their birth several days: yet the experiments of Dr. Marshall Hall seem to warrant the conclusion that the heart's actions ultimately derive their energy from the cerebral masses, and cannot be maintained for any permanency after their removal, the circulation gradually failing from the periphery to the centre. Although, therefore, the heart is first in the order of development, and undoubtedly ranks supreme among the vital organs in complete life—so that we should not expect it to be essentially de- pendent on any other—yet we have reason for believing that it is governed by all the laws which regulate the relations of similarly important organs, as well as all the laws which preside over the actions of similarly constructed parts. To whatever opinion we may come respecting the dependence of the muscular fibres of the heart on the nervous system for their power of contraction, we can scarcely doubt that the nerves are the immediate agents through which the appropriate stimulus of the heart, namely, the blood, operates on these fibres, and excites them to action; and it may be, that this is their chief use in the ordinary actions of the heart. II. The second point to determine is, what is the immediate stimulus of the heart’s action 1 We have seen that the turtle's or frog’s heart may continue to beat for a full hour after it is detached from the body and entirely deprived of blood, and that a stur- geon’s heart pulsated regularly for ten hours under the same circumstances (p. 123, vote); but is it not probable that these actions depended on habit operating on a class of animals whose tenacity of life is extraordinary ? Under common circumstances it cannot be doubted that the heart, like every other organ, requires a special stimulus conveyed through the nerves to continue Its action, lncitability and stimulus are correlative terms in physiological argument, and necessarily imply one another; and therefore to ascribe with Hunter the action of the heart to a negative impression, arising from a want of repletion in the constitution, appears to me to be perfectly contrary to the spirit of sound philosophy. There can, I think, be no doubt that arterial blood, circulating among the fibres of the heart, is necessary to maintain the incitability of this organ; but it is the distension produced by the returning blood, irrespective altogether of its quality, which is the sole stimulus of its action. The experiments of Bichat sufficiently established this fact; which is I think still further confirmed by the observation of Laennec, viz. that the ventricles during their state of repose and fulness (which occu- pies one third of the time between one beat and another) do not take on their action until the auricular systole commences, or in other words until the utmost degree of dis- tension is produced in the ventricles. See note, p. 78 ;—also An Essay on the Circula- tion, by Marshall Ilall, M.D.;—Experiences sur la Circulation, by Spallanzani, tr. par J. Tourdes ;—On the Vital and Involuntary Motions, fyc., by It. Whytt, M.D.;—On the Vital Functions, by Wilson Philip, M.D.;—Du Systlme Nerveux, par M. Flourcns; Mem. de I’lnstitut, tom. x.Experiences sur le Principe de la Vic, par M. Le. Gallois;—On the Influence of the Brain on the Action of the Heart, by Sir B.C. Brodie, Phil. Trans. 1811. p. 36 ;—Sur la Vie et la Mart, par X. Bichat;—and Outlines of Phy- siology, by H. Mayo. ] !# - ■ ■.■T- ;■ y «.