2 INTRODUCTION. express my own ideas the better, I was naturally led to substitute such terms as appeared to me more expressive of what was meant than those usually employed. The best test of the propriety of these terms is, that they have been adopted by many medical writers since that period; and indeed my principles have undergone the same kind of test. In this some medical writers have been very liberal; for, not contented with taking hints, they have even laid hold of large portions of my lectures, screen- ing themselves under the very honourable protection of their not being in print; and, at the same time, quoting authors to show their reading and their candour. It would appear that they consider the discoveries and opinions of a lecturer, found probably in a manuscript, as fair game; though their delicate attention to the rights of another would, no doubt, have prevented them from adopting the same doctrines had they been actually in print. Such freedoms have made me anxious to publish; not only because the public interests itself in the origin of every disco- very or opinion, but because I wish to preserve my right, and also to give in a more perfect form what was thought worthy of the public even in a mutilated state. My respect for that public, however, has with- held me hitherto from publishing, that I might first be able to complete my subject, as far as time and other circumstances would allow me. I hope this publication will, at least, have equally good effects with those I have before produced, not only enabling persons to write on the same subject who could not otherwise have done it, but even to become critics in matters of which till then they were entirely ignorant. I have endeavoured, as far as my other pursuits would permit, to form this work into a regular system, one part exactly depending on another. How far I have succeeded, the world must judge. But at the same time it ought to be considered as a new figure composed from rough ma- terials, in which process little or no assistance could be had from any quarter; wherein the author is conscious of many imperfections, more of which he is persuaded he shall himself observe at every successive review. There are many opinions respecting the animal ccconomy peculiar to myself which are introduced, or frequently referred to, in the course of this work. It is therefore necessary to premise a short explanation of some of them, that the ideas and terms which are employed may be better understood. To others of them, however, this method cannot be applied, as they belong essentially to the body of the work, or are so immediately connected with it as to be best understood when treated in connexion with that part. I shall carry my ideas of life further than has commonly been done. Life I believe to exist in every part of an animal body, and to render it