16 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF T1IE BLOOD. The heat in the animal body, principally in those which are called warm animals, has been commonly considered as depending principally on the blood, or at least as being connected with it as much as with any other portion of the body*. As I shall have occasion to take notice of the increased heat of inflamed parts, it might be expected that I should endeavour to explain this principle in the history of the blood. I profess, however, not thoroughly to understand it, and the theories hitherto brought forward do not in the least satisfy me, as I think that none of them accord perfectly with every circumstance observable in these cases. ยง. 1. Of the Mass of Blood, as composed of different Parts. The blood, while circulating in the vessels, appears to the eye to be a homogeneous mass ; but when it is passing in vessels so small as almost to separate its visible parts, and is viewed in a microscope, there is no appearance but that of globules moving in the vessels. In such a situation the other parts, called the coagulable lymph and the serum, are not distinguishable, on account of their being transpa- rent, and the globules do not, strictly speaking, constitute a part of the fluid, but are only diffused through it. These globules being red, give this colour to the blood, and are called the red part, but are not always of the same redness when collected in a mass; this is probably owing to each globule being changed in its tint of colouring. The blood of some animals has no such globules, but is perfectly transparent, indeed more so than the most transparent parts of the red blood, to which it is analogous. A red colour is therefore not essential to constitute true blood; and I believe the slight tinge of colour there is in the blood, in- dependent of the globules, arises from the solution of various substances in the serum. The blood has a peculiar taste, being saltish, but of a peculiar flavour*: we can always distinguish by the taste when there is blood in the mouth. These arc the principal observations we can make on the blood when circulating, or in its fluid state ; but as one part of it under certain cir- cumstances changes into a solid, or as it is commonly termed, coagu- * From whence the expression, warm-blooded or cold-blooded animals j but the ex- pression should rather be, the animals of a permanent heat in all atmospheres, and animals of a heat variable with every atmosphere. a [It is also slightly nauseous and alkaline. Turmeric paper is rendered brown, and syrup of violets green, by the very first drops of serum which exude from the clot.]