262 UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. Plain food should be directed, and but little of it; nor will such cases ever allow of being roused to action, when as much recovered in their texture as nature can accomplish, to the same degree that other parts will admit of or even require. These observations lead us to consider the means of relief, for, besides rest, it often happens that the parts can be relieved from the secondary consequences of the injury, such as inflammation, etc. But this leads to constitutional and local treatment, and will be included in the history of inflammation. I have already mentioned that when the salutary effects above de- scribed take place, the constitution is not in the least affected ; yet it is proper in all cases where much mischief might arise from a failure, to pay a little attention to the constitution. The patient should eat plain food, drink weak liquors, and have the body kept open. This treat- ment, with rest suitable to the case, will in many instances prevent evils that might otherwise occur and prove troublesome. < ยง.4. Of Scabbing. The operations which I have described prevent inflammation, espe- cially that sort of it which produces suppuration ; but even where the parts are not brought together, so as to admit of union by the first in- tention, nature is always endeavouring to produce the same effect. The blood which is thrown out in consequence of the accident, and which would have united surfaces brought into contact, is in part al- lowed to escape, but by its coagulation on the surface a portion is there retained, which drying and forming a scab*, becomes an obstacle to suppuration. The inflammation in this case may be greater than where union can be effected, but not nearly so great as when suppuration takes place. The blood lying on the fresh surface, although not now alive, and therefore not fitted for union with the living parts underneath, yet precludes the necessity of any further discharge as u covering to the exposed surface, which is one of the uses of pus. This might be considered as the first mode of healing a wound or sore, for it appears to be the natural one, requiring no art; and in the state of parts before mentioned, the complete union is in some degree in- debted to this mode of healing, by uniting the edges that were not or could not be brought iuto close contact, by means of a scab; proper attention to this has, I believe, been too much neglected. * A srab may be defined first, dried blood on a wound, dried pas on a sore, a slough from whatever cause allowed to dry, mucus from an inflamed surface, as in the nose.