GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 19 less necessary when it is to be disposed of out of the circulation, even within the body, and therefore deserves to be considered with no less correspondence of the preceding analyses in all main particulars is a great voucher for their accuracy. I shall only therefore further remark that the muco-extractive matter of Marcet is probably the impure “ lactate of soda and extractive matters soluble in alcohol” of Berzelius, the osmazome of Tlienard and Denis, and the oleaginous and extractive matters of Le Canu. Likewise also the oleaginous matters of Le Canu, which were first fully investigated by Traill, Christison, and Babington, answer to the “ graisse phosphuree rouge et blanche” of Vauquelin and Denis and the “ matibre cere- brate rouge et blanche” of Chevreul. Berzelius is of opinion that the earthy phosphates, the sulphate of potash, and several other substances, are formed during combustion, or by the process of analysis, and do not exist originally in the blood. (Op. cit., pp. 227,233.) We may therefore regard the blood in three lights: 1st, as flowing in the vessels, when we should say that it consists of two substances, the liquor sanguinis and red globules; 2nd, as extravasated from the body, when we should say that it is composed of crassamentum and serum; and 3rd, in its chemical relations, when we should say that it is made up of three parts, essentially differing from each other, viz. water, saline or adventitious substances, and nutritive matters; the latter, in consequence of their close chemical correspondence, being now generally regarded as modifications of albumen. According to some chemists, the blood also contains carbon (Clanny); car- bonic acid (Vogel, Brande, &c.); acetic acid (Hermann); cruorine, cholesterine, and osmazome (Denis) ; seroline (Boudet) ; a yellow colouring-matter (Lassaigne, Chevreul); a peculiar aromatic principle (Barrueil) ; globuline, one of the constituents of the glo- bules, consisting of a modification of albumen and a peculiar colouring-matter (Le Canu); a substance analogous to urea (Raspail, Segalas); copper (Meisner, Sarzeau); soda, either free or in the state of carbonate (nearly all chemists); sulphur (Vogel); and mi- nute traces of silica, alumina, and manganese (Turner and O’Shaughnessy). As the presence, however, of these substances in healthy blood has either been disputed or de- nied by the generality of chemists, it would be improper to include them among the regular constituents of this fluid. The process employed by Le Canu for obtaining the quantitative results contained in the preceding analyses, I shall transcribe in his own words: “ I evaporated," he says, “ a determinate quantity of healthy serum at a gentle heat, and the loss which it sustained gave me the weight of water. Then heating the residue, first with boiling water and afterwards with boiling alcohol, the former dissolved out the soluble salts and extractive matters, and the latter the fatty matters. The aqueous solution being now filtered and evaporated in a sand-bath, and the residue treated with alcohol at 40°, until it ceased to be further coloured, I by this means separated the ex- tractive matters soluble in alcohol. The residue, consisting of salts mixed with ex- tractive matters, insoluble in this menstruum, was calcined, to know the proportion of organic matters, and the new residue treated with boiling alcohol, to separate the hydrochlorates. “ The fatty matters which were taken up by the boiling alcohol were further sepa- rated by means of alcohol at 33°, which when cold does not dissolve the crystallizabte matter; finally, the albumen, thus deprived of all its soluble contents, was dried, weighed, and afterwards calcined. A very small portion of soluble salts, contained in the residue after incineration, was separated by means of water slightly acidulated, which gave rise to a colourless solution, in which the prussiate of potash clearly indicated traces of iron, undoubtedly in the state of phosphate. Ammonia gave rise to a white precipitate, evidently consisting of phosphate of lime and magnesia; for, upon redissolving it in muriatic acid and precipitating the lime by oxalate of ammonia, the filtered liquor was clouded by solution of potash ; and if into the ammoniacal solution thus separated from ' C 2