GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 95 not depending on immediate action : we have not one hour less and an- other hour more; nothing but accident or disease can lessen the quan- state of division in which the combining elements are presented to each other, not to mention the controling influences of the nervous power over this system of vessels, as evinced in the functions of secretion and nutrition, which are merely parallel examples of the exercise of complicated chemical aflinities. Whatever may be thought of several parts of these views, it seems to be an incon- testible fact that oxygen alone is incapable of restoring the arterial tint to blood which .has been rendered black by immersion in water. Dr. Turner, with the assistance of his friend and colleague Mr. Quain, records the following experiment, which I shall jecite in his own words. “ I collected,” he says, “ some perfectly florid blood from the femoral artery of a dog; and, on the following morning, when a firm coagu- lum had formed, several thin slices were cut from the clot with a sharp penknife, and -the serum was removed from them by distilled water, which had just before been briskly boiled and allowed to cool in a well-corked bottle. The water was gently poured on these slices, so that while the serum was dissolved, as little as possible of the colouring matter should be lost. After the water had been poured off and renewed four or five times, occupying in all about an hour, the moist slices were placed in a saucer at the side of the original clot, and both portions shown to several medical friends. They all, without hesitation, pronounced the unwashed clot to have the per- fect appearance of arterial blood, and the washed slices to be as perfectly venous; the colour of the latter in fact was quite dark. On restoring one of the slices to the serum of the same blood, it shortly recovered its florid colour ; and another slice, placed in a solution of bicarbonate of soda, instantly acquired a similar tint. In thus brightening a dark clot by a solution of salt or a bicarbonate, the colour is often still more florid than that of arterial blood; but the colours are exactly alike when the salt is duly diluted. “ I am at a loss to draw any other inference from the foregoing experiment than the following;—that the florid colour of arterial blood is not due to oxygen, but, as Dr. ■ Stevens affirms, to the saline matter of the serum. The arterial blood which had been used had been duly oxygenized, as it is called, within the body of the animal, and should not in that state have lost its tint by mere removal of its serum. The change from venous to arterial blood appears, contrary to the received doctrine, to consist of two parts essentially distinct: one is a chemical change essential to life, accompanied with the absorption of oxygen and evolution of carbonic acid; the other depends on the saline matter of the blood, whch gives a florid tint to the colouring matter after it has been modified by the action of oxygen. (Elem. of Chemistry, 4th edit. 1833, p. 903.) As it would lengthen too much the discussion of the present subject to examine fully all the objections which may be urged to this theory, I shall content myself with making two or three observations which strike me as being most important. 1st. Oxygen is said to have no positive concern in producing the red colour of the blood; but a stream of oxygen passed through a solution of colouring matter, previously rendered florid by a neutral salt, unquestionably exalted the vividness of the tint. Con- sequently oxygen is not entirely a passive agent. 2nd. Oxygen is said to possess a “ latent power of attraction” for carbonic acid, by which it lifts this gas out, and, as it were, carries it off from the blood; but the ascrip- tion of such a property to oxygen is unphilosophical, as the phenomenon in question may be referred with more propriety to the general law of endosmose and exosmose, according to which, gases, by virtue of their elasticity, mutually penetrate and displace one another, such penetration and displacement being always reciprocal. (Sec Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci., vii. pp. 23, 36.) Besides, as the rate of penetration for carbonic