460 THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. Absorption in consequence of disease. Absorption connected with growth. further knowledge of these vessels we slmll find that they are of much more consequence in the body than has been imagined, and that they are often taking down what the arteries had formerly built up; removing whole organs; becoming modellers of the form of the body while grow- ing ; also removing many diseased and dead parts, which were beyond the power of cure ; of all which I shall now take particular notice. As these vessels are productive of a vast variety of effects in the ani- mal ceconomy, which are very dissimilar in the intention and effect, they may be viewed in a variety of lights, and admit of a variety of divisions’*. I shall consider them in two views: first, as they absorb matter, which is not any part of the machine; secondly, as they absorb the machine itself. The first of these is the well-known use, the absorption of matter, which is no part of the machine. This is of two kinds, one exterior matter, in which may be ranked everything applied to the skin, as also the chyle ; and the other interior, such as many of the secreted juices, the fat, and the earth of bones, etc.*. These are principally with a view * It may be necessary to remark here, that I do not consider either the fat, or the earth of bones, as a part of the animal; they are not animal matter; they have no action within themselves. They have not the principle of life. a [The following tabular statement of Mr. Hunter’s classification of absorption is in- troduced for the convenience of reference. Absorption for nourishment. Absorption of useless, in convenient,or hurtful parts. Extraneous matter to Interstitial absorption brane, muscles, &c. Extraneous, that have been useful, as synovia and other secretions, become r useless. I Parts of the body 1 itself. become useful, as chyle, fat, Stc. of parts of the body itself, as cellular niein- Producing wasting of a part, as a leg, an arm, Sc.; or wasting of the whole body. Absorption of the whole parts. As modellers in the time of growth. In consequence of weakness, as in the removal of calluses. From parts becom- ing wholly useless, as the alveoli. Interstitial ah sorption ' of a leg, an arm, &c.; or of the whole body, as vasting^ in atrophy. of a callus, of a testicle, vasting of calluses, alveoli, testicles, Src. [ As when pus or any extraneous body is' brought to the skin, f Partial wa I | Total was Progressive ab-J In the process of exfoliation of bones, sorption. ; In Attended with suppura- tion. Mixed. the process of sloughing, In the formation of ulcers, [ In the removal of the fangs of the teeth. Without suppuiation. As in the progress of pus, tumours, &c. to the skin.]