63 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. some idea of the motion of the blood in the smaller vessels, where it is i much divided : being there viewed with microscopes, the red globules smaller series of globules (lymph-globules) are generated during coagulation, being in diameter about -y-gVo- an incb< Tbese are saitl t0 be generated in greatest abundance immediately after coagulation; but Professor Faraday has observed them to form so late as the eighth or tenth day ; and Dr. Stevens, who examined them by the solar micro- scope, found that they were equally numerous at all periods, and as abundant as the i red globules. He says they varied in size amongst themselves, the largest being at least six times larger than the smallest; but then the latter resembled the globules in rain- water, which are generally believed to consist of air in a state of very minute division. The prevalence of globules in several of the animal secretions, and in chyle, has led some physiologists to suspect that these particles are identical with the blood globules; those which are found in the secretions, as the milk, the semen, &c., being deprived of • their external tunics of colouring matter, while those which are found in the chyle are destined to receive these tunics during the blood’s passage through the lungs; nay, the . globular structure of the ultimate textures of the body has even induced some to suppose that these particles of the blood form the pabulum of nutrition, not merely of the mus- cular fibre, but of every other part: but these are mere conjectures, too vague and in- definite to support any physiological argument, which not only do not advance science, but tend rather to retard it, by seducing the mind from the substantial evidence of facts into the ideal regions of imagination. The diversified magnitudes of the globules, according to micrometrical measurement, not only in the blood of different species, but in the textures of the same animal, are circumstances clearly against the notion that these constitute the ultimate molecules of organic structures; not to add that the struc- ture of many parts is such as not easily to admit the red globules at any period of their growth. In reference to the objection urged by our author to the solidity of the globules, viz., that they show no disposition to coalesce, I may observe, first, that when the capillary circulation is viewed under a good microscope, the globules are often observed to meet and repel one another, from which it has been supposed that the principle of life may confer (like electricity) a new power of repulsion on these bodies, or at least control the aggregative tendency ; and secondly, that the nature of the circulation must be ad- mirably adapted to diffuse the globules through the whole mass of the blood, as well as to prevent tbeir coalescence in any particular part. It is not, however, necessary to answer specifically this or any other objection in order to prove the solidity of the glo- bules, for if they were not solid, it must be evident they would always assume the form of spherules, and those spherules would always be of the same size; whereas the fact is, the shape and size of the globules are different in almost every different species of animal, but uniformly the same in the same species; not to mention that the colouring matter of the globules forms a leading constituent of the blood, and may be collected and examined like any other solid body. The spontaneous volvular and rotary movements which have been observed in the globules of the blood and semen by G. L. Treviranus, Schultz, Dutrochet, Tiedemann, and other microscopical observers, must (if true) materially tend, with the circumstances before mentioned, to promote their diffusion through the whole mass of blood. (Revue Med. i. 136—8.) These movements are conceived by the German physiologists to be as much spontaneous and a property of life as the movements of the infusorial animalcule. But Brongniart has shown that the granules which issue from the pollen of plants, when it explodes in water, are equally endowed with an automatic motion ; and Brown, that all impalpable molecules, whether organic or inorganic, are endowed with the same kind