37 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. know to be constituent parts of the body), that these coagula, more especially the thin ones, cannot easily by their appearances be distin- guished from them. The coagulating lymph of the blood being common probably to till animals, while the red particles are not, we must suppose it from this alone to be the most essential part; and as we find it capable of under- going, in certain circumstances, spontaneous changes, which are neces- sary to the growth, continuance, and preservation of the animal, while to the other parts we cannot assign any such uses, we have still more rea- son to suppose it the most essential part of the blood in every animal®. * [There seems good reason for this opinion, and yet Fourcroy was unable to detect any fibrin in the blood of the foetus; an observation which has since been repeated by different experimentalists, and confirmed by the statement of Bichat, that foetal blood does not coagulate. Dr. Grant has stated that the proportion of fibrin in the blood of the less perfect animals is considerably smaller than that which exists in the higher classes. Davy, Thackrah, and Scudamore found that the proportion of fibrin was relatively increased during inflammation. Scudamore even found that it varied during the same venesection. “ In one instance,” he says, “ I found the proportion in the first cup for 1000 grains of clot twelve grains, and in the last cup not quite six grains: the highest proportion that I have found in healthy blood has been, for 1000 grains of clot, 4'43 of fibrin. It is in the inflammation of the fibrous textures of the body that the greatest quantity of fibrin is found in the blood j for example, in inflammation of the heart, when the blood is drawn we meet with the strongest example of the buffy coat; and next, probably, in pleurisy and acute rheumatism.” (Op. cit., p. 119.) Mr. Thackrah found that this variation in the relative proportions of the constituents of the blood during the same venesection was not confined to the fibrin, but was equally applicable to the se- rum and haematosine. (Op. cit., pp. 146, 209.) It is remarkable, however, that the in- crease of fibrin, which is observable both in inflammation and in breeding animals, is uniformly found to take place at the expense of the albumen of the serum, from which it may be inferred that the former is formed out of the latter, or is in fact in a higher and more perfect state of animalization, a view of the case which is still further corrobo- rated from the fact of its containing more nitrogen. Ihe generality of modern chemists have been disposed to regard the fibrin, albumen, and haunatosine of the blood as modifications of the same animal principle. In its co- agulated state, the chemical relations of albumen are undoubtedly closely allied to those of fibrin, so as with difficulty to be distinguished from them: still there are certain well-marked differences which distinguish these substances; as, for instance, albumen contains less nitrogen than fibrin; it is soluble in water at common tempera- tures; it undergoes coagulation at a temperature of 160°, and it is also coagulated by all the mineral acids. Whether these points of dissimilarity arc sufficient to characterize it as a distinct and separate organic principle, I shall not pretend to decide. I w ill only observe, that in deciding this question it would be right to reflect that the doctrine of definite proportionals does not obtain, in regard to organic principles, in the same manner or to the same extent as it does with respect to inorganic compounds, so that the lormer class of bodies are far less distinctly characterized in general than the latter, and pass, by a series of easy transitions, from one into the other, so as often to be con- vertible. It signifies, however, very little in fact whether we regard the fibrin, albumen,