GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 91 when there is a free orifice the blood may pass more readily into the ■reins from the arteries, and therefore may be somewhat in the state of arterial blood, which may occasion the last blood to be rather lighter. •What amounts almost to a proof of this is, that although a ligature is tied so as to stop the passage of the blood to the heart, and therefore it might be supposed not to have so free a passage from the arteries as in common, yet, from the following observations, it appears that it cer- : tainly has a much freer; for if the orifice be large in a full-sized vein, the arm beyond the orifice will be much paler than the natural colour, .and the blood will become more florid ; but if, on the contrary, the vein be small, and little blood passes, it will retain its dark colour ; this, however, would appear not always to be the case. I bled a lady, whose blood at first was of a dark colour ; but she fainted, and while she continued in the fit the colour of the blood that came from the vein was a fine scarlet. The circulation was then very languid. We may observe that venal blood in the most healthy is commonly, 1 if not always, the darkest; and that whenever the body is the least out of order, it is then not so much changed from the florid to the very dark ■ purple. This I have often observed, and particularly recollect a strik- . ing instance of it in a gentleman who had a slight fever ; his venal blood was quite florid, like arterial blood. This could not have arisen from the increase of the blood’s motion, or from being kept up in the veins by the fever, for it was slight*. The blood will change its colour from the scarlet to the rnodena in different situations, according to the mode of circulation. In animals which have lungs and a complete double circulation, the darkest blood will be where it comes (if I may be allowed the expression) to get anew its bright colour ; for instance, in the arteries of the lungs, and of course the brightest in the veins of the same part, which will be continued more or less into the arteries of the other circulation, where again it will begin to change, except in one stage of life of some animals which do not use their lungs, such as foetuses ; but in such foetuses as convert animal matter into nourishment, (and therefore, most probably, must have it influenced by the air, although not by means of the lungs of the chick, such as the chick in the egg,) we find the blood in the veins of * I believe the blood does not become dark by standing in an inflamed part. I have seen cases of apoplexy where the person died some days after the attack. 1 have found the pia mater inflamed in several places, even to the length of inflammatory transfusion, forming dots, all of which were of a florid red colour, while the other parts of the same membrane, the blood in the larger vessels, and also the extravasated blood, were of the usual dark colour.