454 OF PUS. of the different secretions depend, so as to enable us to conclude <j priori that this or that gland must secrete this or that peculiar juice. Pus, from several circumstances often attending it, would appear in general to have a greater tendency to putrefaction than the natural juices have; but I very much suspect that this is not really the case with pure pus, for when it is first discharged from an abscess it is in general perfectly sweet. There are, however, some exceptions to this, but these depend on circumstances entirely foreign to the nature of pus itself. Thus, if the abscess had any communication with the air while the matter was confined in it, (as is frequently the case with those in the neighbourhood of the lungs,) or if it has been so near the colon or rectum as to have been infected by the freces, under such circumstances we cannot wonder that it becomes putrid. Matter formed early in the state of suppuration, either in abscesses, or more especially in conse- quence of any external violence committed on the solids, has always in it a portion of blood ; or if some parts of the solids mortify and slough, these will mix with the matter. The same thing happens when the in- flammation has something of the erysipelatous disposition, so as to have pioduced a mortification in the seat of the abscess: in all such circum- stances we find the pus has a greater tendency to putrefy than the pure or true pus which comes to be discharged afterwards in sound abscesses or healing sores, and accordingly the matter from recent sores becomes \ cry putrid betw'een every dressing; whereas when the same sores are further advanced it is perfectly sweet at the same periods. But although the imperfect or heterogeneous matter that is formed at first is liable to putrefy when exposed, yet if it is perfectly confined in an abscess it will remain a considerable time without putrefaction. The suppuration, how- ever, in consequence of the erysipelatous inflammation, which is often attended with suppuration produced by internal mortification, is, as we have observed, an exception to this rule; for although confined from external air, yet the matter becomes soon putrid, and this most probably arises from the solids themselves first becoming putrid. A similar observation may be made with respect to sores which have been in the habit of discharging good pus; for if by any accident an extravasation of blood is produced in these parts, or a disposition is brought on to throw out blood, w'hich mixes with the pus, the discharge changes from its former sweetness, and becomes much more putrid and offensive. It appears that pure matter, although easily rendered sus- ceptible of change by extraneous additions, is in its own nature pretty uniform and immutable: it appears so unchangeable, that we find it re- tained in an abscess for wrecks without having undergone any change; but these qualities belong only to perfect pus; for if a sore from a sound stale