GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. Ill is not necessary that the very same parts should oppose each other, else harmony, and consequently union, could never take place; it is simply necessary that the two parts be alive, and they might be shifted from one sort of a living creature to another for ever, without any injury to , either, or without exciting irritation, and the whole would still be as perfect as ever. Neither can the motion of one living part upon another j affect the body, because all its parts are similar, and in harmony with each other. It is exactly the same with the blood, for neither its mo- : tion on itself, nor its motion on the body, can either affect it or the body, since all the parts are similar among themselves. Ihis is the case with all matter, where the property does not depend upon structure, or configuration, but upon the compound; for wTater is still water, whether its parts are moving on each other, or at rest; and a small , portion has the same property with the whole, and is in fact a smaller whole. One of the great proofs that the blood possesses life depends on the circumstances affecting its coagulation; and, at present, we are only to explain the principles upon which these are founded, which it will be in some degree necessary to recapitulate : but perhaps the strongest conviction on the mind will arise from the application of this ; principle to diseases, especially inflammation. While the blood is cir- culating it is subject to certain laws to which it is not subject when not circulating. It has the power of preserving its fluidity, which was taken notice of when treating of its coagulation; or, in other words, the living principle in the body has the power of preserving it in this state. This is not produced by motion alone, for in the colder animals, tvhen almost in a state of death during the winter, when their blood is moving with extreme slowness, and would appear to preserve simply animal life through the whole body, and keep up that dependence which exists between the blood and the body already formed, the blood does not coagulate to accomplish these purposes. If the blood had not the living principle, it would be, in respect of the body, as an extraneous substance. Blood is not only alive itself, but is the support of life in every part of the body; for mortification immediately follows when the circulation is cut off from any part, which is no more than death taking place in the part, from the want of the successive changes of fresh blood. This shows that no part of the body is to be considered as a complete living substance, producing and continuing mere life, without the blood; so that blood makes one part of the compound, without which life would neither begin nor be continued®. This circumstance, on its first ap- * [The form of the argument is here changed from mere passive life to life such as >t exists in completely organized bodies, where it always is active, and where, conse- quently, as it is quaintly enough expressed in the text, its continuance seems to be the