OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 162 appear less than it really is; accordingly we find the coats of the hu- meral artery in the horse apparently thicker than the coats of the axil- lary, the coats of the radial as thick as those of the humeral, and the artery near the hoof as thick in its coats as any of the others. There is yet another circumstance which also deserves attention in comparing the two coats, namely, that in many places, but especially at the surfaces of contact in the elastic and muscular substances of the middle-sized arteries, the fibres of the muscular and elastic are very much blended or intermixed. I mention this, because otherwise we might be led to draw false conclusions with regard to the comparative quantity of each substance, and because it explains by what means both these coats are made elastic. The external coat, however, is more so than the internal, being composed almost entirely of elastic sub- stance, while the internal has a mixture of muscular with its elastic fibres. As there is, therefore, a difference in the elastic power of the two coats, there must be a difference in their powers of contraction after death, the external coat, for instance, contracting more than the inter- nal, and also, as there is a difference between the muscular and elastic powers of contraction, the muscular having the greatest, there must be a difference between the contracting powers of these two coats during life, but the reverse of that which takes place after death. In those arteries which are evidently composed of two distinct sub- stances, especially the smaller, we may observe two very opposite appearances, according as the elastic or muscular coats have contracted most. In the one, when we make a transverse section, and look upon the cut end, wre may observe that the inner surface has been thrown into rugae, so as to fill up the whole cavity; and if such an artery be slit up longitudinally, so as to expose its inner surface, we shall find that inner surface forming wrinkles, which are principally longitudinal. If the finger is passed over that surface, it feels hard, while the exter- nal is soft; but if the artery be stretched, and allowed to recover itself by its elasticity, which is the only power it now has, it will be felt equally soft on both surfaces, and its coats will be found to have be- come thinner than before*. On the contrary, I have observed in many of the smaller arteries, when the muscular contraction has been con- siderable, the external or elastic coat to be thrown into longitudinal inequalities, from not having an equal power of contraction with the a [The internal surface is thrown into rugae in consequence of the elasticity of the external coat being greater than the muscularity of the internal coat. How then can stretching smooth these ruga:, when it ought rather to increase them ?]