202 of the vascular system. ยง. 7- Valves of Arteries. The arteries arising from the heart, I believe in all animals, have valves, which are so many flood-gates, to hinder a return of the blood into the cavities ; and as there are two main arteries in the human body, so there are two sets of valves, viz. one belonging to each artery. These are situated at the beginning of the artery, and, from their shape, are called semilunar. Veins have similar valves almost through their whole course. The valves are inelastic, being similar to the inner coat of an artery ; but the difference in the properties of the valves and the arteries themselves (which are clastic) will be further considered in treating of the use and mode of action of the valves. Each of these sets is made up of three valves*, but in veins there are commonly only two. This difference in the valves of the arteries and veins is perhaps to bring the artery into a more rounded figure than could have taken place by two valves only: each of these valves is of a semilunar form, having one convex edge, and the other nearly straight. These valves are attached to the insides of the artery, at its very beginning, by their semicircular edge, which is oblique, the points, as it were, running a little way into the artery. These terminations in each valve come close to one another, but the loose edges, which constitute the diameter, are not cut straight off, but rounded. There is, besides, a small body on each, attached to or near the edge, between the two points, called corpora sesamoidea. These bodies are not placed exactly on the edge, but rather on that side next to the artery, leaving the edge of the valve loose : this situation is best adapted to their intended use ; the reason of the loose edge being a little rounded, and of the bodies called corpora sesamoidea being placed there, arises from there being three valves to each artery. Each of these valves, with its artery, forms a pouch, whose mouth or cavity opens towards the artery ; and the convexity of each of the valves, when the artery is dilated, makes nearly the third of a circle, which is turned inwards towards the centre of the artery, as well as towards the heart. It is from this oblique direction in the attachment that the valves perform their office, simply from the action of the heart upon the blood, and the blood upon the artery. This is entirely mechanical, depending on mechanical principles alone, as much as the action of a joint. I have above observed, that the area described by the valves is the * I have found in the human subject only two valves to the aorta; but this is very rare. [Mr. Mayo has figured a similar case in his Outlines of Physiology, 3rd Edit. p. 54.]