GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 103 -ava became turgid, I killed him. On the day following I examined the blood in the different veins, and found a coagulum in the emulgent, ■mesenteric, vena-cava inferior, splenic, and in the vense-cavae hepaticae, of sizes proportionable to the sizes of the vessels ; nor was there any dif- ference in any other wray. Exp. 2. Some blood w'as taken from the mesenteric vein of a liv- ing dog, and similar quantities from the splenic vein, the emulgent • vein, and the vena-cava inferior, below the openings of the emulgents. iThese four quantities were taken in four separate cups. They all soon coagulated ; and if there was any one later of coagulating than another, .'it was that from the mesenteric veins. On standing twenty-four hours, ■ the coagula were all of the same firmness. §. 6. Of the Living Principle of the Blood. So far I have considered the blood, and in the common way; but all this will explain nothing in the animal ceconomy, unless we can refer it : to some principle which may sho\v the nature of its connexion v'ith the living solids in which it moves, and which it both forms and supports, i If We should find this principle to be similar to life in the solids, then w'e shall see the harmony that is supported between the tu'O, and w'e shall call it the living principle of the blood. Without some such prin- ciple, all we have been examining is like dissecting a dead body without having any reference to the living, or even knowing it ever had been alive. But, from the account I have given of the blood, it must have appeared that I have still in reserve a property not hitherto explained ; for in treating of the coagulation of the coagulating lymph I have not dark as ever; for though Hunter has pointed out their connexion with the strength and vigour of the animal (p. fi8.), Prevostand Dumas the relation which they bear to animal heat {Ann. de Ctiim., xxiii.), and Dr. Christison the correspondence which exists between them and the consumption of oxygen in respiration (Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., xxxv. 94.), yet the exact relation which either of these phenomena bears to the cause from which it is supposed to spring is altogether a secret. It has also, with equal confidence, been asserted that the fibrin of the blood consti- tutes the basis of muscular fibre, and that it is the great intermedium by which recently divided parts are united; the albumen also has been said to afford the basis of the der- moidal, ligamentous, and membranous tissues of the body. These, however, at present must be regarded as mere conjectures, in favour of which no definite or satisfactory kind of proof has as yet been offered. If, as very probably is the case, the act of assimilation carried on in the parenchymatous structure of parts is to be regarded as of the same na- ture with secretion, then there seems no greater reason for supposing the preexistence of muscle, or brain, or ligament, ready formed in the blood, than for imagining that bile, or milk, or semen, previously exist in this fluid ; arid yet no one has yet been hardy enough to affirm that either of these secretions is discoverable in healthy blood.]