243 UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. place between the two divided surfaces; for where inosculation does i not or cannot take place, the union of the ruptured vessels is produced by the coagulation of the extravasated blood of this part, which becomes i vascular. That the blood becomes vascular is clearly shown in the case of the blood extravasated on the testicle. [PI. XVIII. and XIX.] The - superfluous extravasated blood is token up by the absorbents, by which : means the whole is reinstated as much as it is in the power of the parts t to do it. I may observe here that the power of recovery in the arteries is l greater nearly in proportion to the smallness of their size, which is com- shined with several causes, viz. their distance from the heart, their elas- ticity, their division into smaller branches, and their accumulated dia- meters becoming larger, which allows them to recover. Secondly, • there is an increased power within the smaller artery itself, abstracted from the above circumstancesa. This includes a great variety of cases, and the most simple difference ■which can happen between them will be owing to the magnitude of the ruptured parts, or to a difference in the parts themselves, or to the magnitude of the injury, or to a difference in the effects. It will comprehend simple fractures of all kinds, broken tendons, (as is often fthe case with the tendo Achillis,) and even many injuries of the brain, :producing extravasations of blood, which is probably the only way in which the brain can be torn when there is no fractureh. Some of these will often require art to reinstate them in the natural [•oosition, out of which they may have been put by the accident, or by i some peculiar circumstance attending the nature of the part, as we see n a fracture of the patella, or broken tendon, where the upper part reing too far pulled up by the muscles, it must be reinstated by the rand of the surgeon, to bring the parts into a situation more favourable :o their recovery. But extravasations, even from the most simple accidents, are often so ituated as to obstruct the actions of life ; as, for instance, in that affec- * [The arteries become more muscular in proportion as the impetus of the blood be- omes less powerful; both which circumstances must combine to render the obliteration f a bleeding vessel more effectual and speedy. Is this, however, the author’s drift! r does he mean by “the power of recovery” that the small arteries, which are “ the ' ormers and supporters of the body,” or “ the efficient part of the whole animal rcspect- ■)g itself,” are capable of reinstating themselves after injury sooner than other parts! b [Concussion of the hrain may be in three degrees: 1. It may occasion an extensive upture of the substance of the brain ; 2. it may occasion rupture of the minute vessels nly, giving rise to an effusion of blood from a multitude of minute points; and, 3. it may nly strain the organ, without producing any visible rupture. These last cases, however, re not unfrequently fatal. See note, i. 488.] U 2