206 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. as they are nearer the heart, as well as in the greater distance which they have to traverse in a retrograde direction from their origin to the parts supplied'1. We find a difference even in the arteries which arise from the intercostals ; for they are much more obtuse at the beginning of the intercostals than at their termination. The reason why this is not so evi- dent in all the arteries of the body is, that there are so few arteries on the same side of the body which take the same course, go to the same distance, and have the same office: for some parts require a greater velo- city than others, which will make a difference in the origin of the two arteries, supposing they should go the same length and take the same course. We see the same thing in the secondary arteries, such as the subclavian ; for it sends off its branches near its origin at much more obtuse angles than it does further on. Haller, in his Physiology, says that the arteries arise at an angle of forty-five degrees, which is the greatest angle in projection ; but he did not consider that in projection there are two powers, viz. gravitation and the force applied, while the blood in the arteries has only one. It may be asked whether the blood in an artery of a given size, arising from a large one, is sent with the same force as if the artery had arisen from a much smaller trunk, or from an artery of the same size with itself, whose blood passed with the same velocity as in the large one. We find small arteries coming off at once from large ones, instead of being a third, fourth, or fifth from the large one. Arteries send off their branches at a longer or shorter distance, according to cir- cumstances; or, in other words, they divide and subdivide more quickly in some places than in others. I believe this quick di-vision is more pe- culiar to glands than most other parts, though it does not take place in all, as in the testicle. They divide also quickly in the substance of the brain. In the kidney this is also remarkable : they would seem in that gland to be hurrying to their termination. The same happens as soon as the arteries enter the substance of the brain. Other parts appear to have the arteries elongated before they enter the part, as the spermatic artery; more especially in some animals, as the bull, boar, &c.; and in the female, in the time of uterine-gestation, where we should expect the quickest circulation, we find the arteries elongated very considerably, which throws them into a serpentine course: all of which must retard * [This passage I have ventured to alter. In is/ Edit, it stands thus: “ The most remarkable instance of this is in the intercostal and lumbar arteries; because, since they are a set of branches in the body whose length and uses are so much the same, if there be any difference in the angles, at the origin of the arteries, at equal distances from the heart, it must be made with regard to their length, from the origin to the part sup- plied.”]