78 OENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. This experiment I have repeated upon several animals, and commonly for half an hour at a time, which was sufficient to allow me to make my observations with coolness and accuracy. In this part of the experi- ment it was curious to see the coronary arteries turn darker and darker, becoming like the veins which run on each side of them, and on blow- ing again resume gradually a brighter colour, till they became of a flo- rid red. As respiration was generally prevented in the first part of the experiment, the blood was found at first wholly of a dark colour, and the heart large and hardly acting; but on throwing into the lungs fresh air, the heart began to act, upon which both auricles and ventricles be- came gradually smaller; then by stopping the respiration they again became larger and larger! The diminution of the heart’s motion upon stopping respiration does not depend upon the immediate impression of improper blood on the left auricle and ventricle as a sedative, but upon the sympathetic con- nexion which exists between the heart and lungs (one action ceasing the other also ceases) ; which sympathy is established, because if the heart were to continue acting it would send improper blood into the body, by which it can be supported only a little while. The right au- ricle and ventricle also cease acting, although not so early, and for the same reason; because on the cessation of the function of the lungs the blood cannot receive any benefit in passing through them. These actions and cessations are all dependent on life and the con- nexion of one action with another. It is upon the same principle that the first effect of recovery is the act of breathing11. * [The cessation of the heart’s action, in cases of asphyxia, would appear to depend, 1st, On the circulation of black blood through its substance, by which its irritability is more or less impaired; 2nd, On the effect of black blood on the brain producing universal depression,—lower- ing still further the tone of the heart, and paralysing the muscles of respiration, as well as the pulmonary capillaries; 3rd, On the insufficient supply of blood which is sent to the left side of the heart in consequence of the paralysis of the pulmonary capillaries. We may therefore trace a sort of reaction in a circle among the vital organs, each con- curring towards the same effect. What is the exact order of their cessation, or the pre- cise share which each of them has in producing the ultimate effect, is not easily assigned. In syncope the series of phenomena would appear to commence with an impression on the brain, which is thence propagated to the heart, and thence to the lungs ■, but in asphyxia the first effect is probably felt by the heart, the second by the brain, and the third by the lungs. Goodwyn conceived that the heart ceased to act because the left side, being only arterio-contractile, was incapable of being stimulated by venous blood ; but this idea was fully disproved by the experiments of Bichat, which render it certain that the blood sti- mulates the ventricles not by its quality, but by its bulk. (Goodwyn on the Counex. of Life with Kesp. pp. 82, 83; and Bichat, Sur la Vic ct la Mart.) On the other hand, Bichat's