fundamental principles of inflammation. 289 ducts of glands, and the alimentary canal. The first order of parts, 1 have already observed, generally, if not always, takes the adhesive first, in the true inflammation, and then all the three inflammations in suc- cession ; for the adhesive is immediately admitted in the cellular mem- brane and circumscribed cavities, to exclude, if possible, suppuration, where suppuration, and of course ulceration, would prove hurtful. In the following parts the order of inflammation, with regard to its being adhesive or suppurative, appears to be inverted ; as the ulcerative is a consequence either of the adhesive or of the suppurative inflam- mation, it is ruled equally by both. In internal canals*, where adhe- sions in most cases would prove hurtful, the parts run immediately into the suppurative inflammation, the adhesive inflammation in common being excluded ; such parts are the internal surfaces of the eyelids, nose, mouth, trachea, air-cells of the lungs, oesophagus, stomach, intestines] pelvis of the kidneys, ureters, bladder, urethra, uterus, vagina, and in- ec all the ducts and outlets of the organs of secretion, which all these parts mentioned may be in some degree reckoned, and which are com- monly called mucous membranes. In such parts, if the inflammation is ut slight, the suppurative in common takes place, which is almost im- mediate, as it is not retarded by the adhesive stage, which accounts for the quickness of suppuration of these parts in many cases. I have known a violent discharge of pus come on the surface of the urethra only a few hours after contamination. These facts are shown us every 'day in vanous inflammations of those parts, and particularly in the go- norrhoea, cold in the nose, lungs, intestines, etc. The matter from such is generally not called true matter, or purulent, but is often so, if not al- ways, having all the characters of pus; however, this will be according o circumstances. Since those surfaces are, in general, secreting sui° faces suppuration would appear to be only a change in the secretion; and 1 think I have visibly seen, or could visibly trace, the one change gradually leading into the other: the different parts, therefore, of which he pus is composed will not always be in the same proportion, so that the matter will seem to vary from true matter towards that of the comm tlQn Qf the part> and ^ ^ But th.s doeg not aker • to our n 7’ * * C°mm°n t£> mattCr from a SOTe i *wd ev«m common to our ordinary secretions. If this inflammation, which produced suppuration on those surfaces,' Z TTfT- V" ’ °r haS eomethinff of erysipelatous disposition, e find that it moves from the suppurative to the adhesive, and throws * tHe coaSulatmg lymph. I have seen this in the intestines, often * I make a distinction between an internal cavity and a canal; they are very differs t 'their llscs>andals<t their mode of action in disease are very different ‘ 11X* u