OF TIIE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 418 cause suppuration itself in many cases proves fatal: for instance, suppu- ration of the brain and its membranes, of the thorax and its contents, as well as of the abdomen and its contents, in short, suppuration of any of the vital parts, often kills of itself, simply from the matter being pro- duced. But this practice will by most be forbidden in many cases of sup- puration, for it is supposed this very suppuration is a deposit of matter or humours already formed in the constitution ; but it is to be hoped that time and experience will get rid of such prejudices. When suppuration cannot be stopped or resolved, then in most cases it is to be hurried on, which generally is the first step taken by surgeons. How far suppuration can be increased by medicine or applications I do not know; but attempts are generally made, and thence we have suppurating cataplasms, plasters, &c. recommended to us, which are composed of the warmer gums, seeds, &c., but I doubt very much if they have considerable effect in this way: for if the same applications were made to a sore they would hardly increase the discharge of that sore, but probably rather decrease it. However, in many cases, where the parts are indolent and hardly admit of true inflammation, in consequence of which a perfect suppuration cannot take place, by stimulating the skin a more salutary inflammation may be produced, and of course a quicker suppuration ; but in the true suppuration, where inflammation has pre- ceded it, I believe it is hardly necessary to do anything with respect to suppuration itself: however, from experience, I believe these applica- tions have been found to bring the matter faster to the skin, even in the most rapid suppurations, which was supposed to be an increased formation of matter; but it can only be in those cases where the inner surface of the abscess is within the influence of the skin. This effect arises from another cause or mode of action being produced than that of quickening suppuration, which is the hastening on of ulceration. 1 have mentioned that ulceration was an effect of, or at least attended by, inflammation ; and therefore whatever increases that inflammation will also increase the ulceration, which will bring the matter sooner to the skin, without an increased formation of matter. Poultices of bread and milk are commonly used to inflamed parts when suppuration is known to have taken place. These applications can have no effect upon suppuration, excepting by lessening inflammation, or rather making the skin easy under them, for we observed that true sup- puration did not begin till inflammation was abated; but the. inflamma- tion must have reached the skin before poultices can have much effect, for they can only affect that part. It may be thought necessary that the ease of the patient should be