94 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. towards better understanding the ceconomy of the animal. The quantity of blood is probably as permanent a circumstance as any, and evinced in many of the functions of the animal (Economy, Dr. Edwards is disposed to regard the former of these opinions as most probable (op. cit., p. 437.) ; and certainly, when we reflect on the importance of the respiratory functions, it is reasonable to suppose that this is actually the case. What the exact changes are which are wrought on venous blood, so as to restore to it its vivifying properties, are unknown, but it seems to fall in- finitely short of our notion of the importance of this function to suppose that it merely rids the blood of a little carbon. This would be merely to ascribe to respiration a ne- gative effect, whereas it is scarcely possible to refrain from the conclusion that this important function confers on the blood new and positive qualities, by more completely animalizing its various elements. Such, then, are the phenomena of respiration; but what are the immediate causes of the change of colour in the blood ? The scarlet colour is instantly restored to venous blood by the contact of oxygen, and hence it was universally supposed that the arteri- alization of the blood depended on the absorption of this gas. But this has been denied by Dr. Stevens (On the Blood, p. S. ct passim), whose views are: 1st, That the colouring matter of the blood is naturally black, but that “ scarlet is the natural colour of the vital current; and this it owes to another cause.” 2nd, “ That carbonic acid is the cause of the dark colour in the venous circulation,” having “ascertained by numerous experiments that all the acids blacken the blood.” 3rd, “ That oxygen brightens its colour, not by addition, but by attracting or removing the carbonic acid.” And 4th, “ That the scarlet colour is produced by the action of the saline ingredients on the co- louring matter.” He affirms that “ the scarlet colour exists in the blood independent of oxygen, or, at all events, oxygen of itself cannot produce either the red or the arterial appearance, for when we cover the crassamentum, when it first coagulates, with a layer of distilled water, or any other fluid which does not contain saline matter, the acid may be removed by the oxygen, or absorbed by the water, but the colour becomes darker than it had been before. On the other hand, when we immerse the black and saltless cras- samentum in any clear saline fluid, the colour instantly changes from dark venous to bright arterial; and when the fluid which we use is sufficiently impregnated with saline matter, this change is produced when we make the experiment, as I have, frequently done, even in an atmosphere of carbonic acid. Oxygen, however, is essential to life, for without this the heavy deleterious gas, which is the cause of the impurity of the venous circu- lation, would not be removed in the pulmonary organs; the blood in the extreme cir- culation is converted from arterial to venous, partly by the loss, or rather by the change of form in the oxygen which it contains, and partly by the addition of carbonic acid; but when this dark or acidified blood is exposed to the air in the lungs, the oxygen in- stantly removes the acid from the circulation.” Such is a brief outline of Dr. Stevens’s views, according to which oxygen plays the following part in respiration, namely, at first it lifts out or carries off the carbonic acid of the blood by virtue of a “ latent power of attraction”; and secondly, having performed this office, it is absorbed into the circu- lating fluids, where it gradually attracts carbon, from the proximate principles of the blood working important changes on these substances, and giving rise to the production of carbonic acid. This union of carbon and oxygen may slowly take place, as we have seen in the preceding note, even out of the body, and still more rapidly in the great vessels of the living animal; but undoubtedly the principal scat of these changes is in the extreme capillaries of the periphery, where the change from arterial to venous is instantaneous, and where, it must be evident, the affinity of oxygen for carbon must be exercised under the most favourable circumstances, in consequence of the minute