175 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. cular, being in part tendinous or ligamentous, which last parts have neither action nor reaction within themselves, but are only acted upon ; they are therefore made inelastic and rigid, to support the torce of the acting parts in this action without varying in themselves. In all animals which have red blood the heart is the reddest muscle in the body. Thus, in the bird, whose muscles are mostly white, the heart is red : we find it the same in the white fish. As it differs in the different orders of animals respecting the number of cavities, it may admit of dispute what are to be reckoned truly hearts, and what only appendages; for some of its cavities may only be consi- dered as reservoirs peculiar to some hearts. The most simple form of heart is composed of one cavity only, and the most complicated has no more than two; it would seem indeed to increase progressively in the number of cavities from one to four, which includes the mixed ; yet two of these ought not to be called parts of the heart, although they belong to it. The single cavity of the heart in the most simple class, or the two in the most complicated, are called ven- tricles. The other cavities belonging to it are called auricles. Many of those which have one ventricle only, have no auricle, such as insects ; but there are others which have both a ventricle and auricle, such as fish, the snail, and many shell-fish; some of the last class have indeed two auricles, with only one ventricle, which shows that the number of auricles is not fixed under the same mode of circulation. Those animals which have two distinct ventricles, constituting four cavities, are what are called quadrupeds or mammalia, and birds. If the auricles are con- sidered as parts of the heart, we might class animals which have hearts according to the number of their cavities, viz. monocoilia, dicoilia, tri- coilia, tetracoilia; the tricoilia is] a mixture of the dicoilia and tetra- coilia. This is the case in distinct classes of animals ; but it also takes place in other classes at different stages of life, for the foetus of the class possessing four cavities may be classed with the mixed, having but one auriqle, in consequence of the communication which exists in the foetus between the two; and also but one ventricle, by means of the union which exists between the two arteries, which produces an union of blood, although not in the same way. Those passages, however, are shut up almost immediately after birth, or at least the canalis arteri- osus*, which immediately prevents the foramen ovale from producing its former effects; therefore it is not so necessary it should be shut up in the adult. I have seen it, to common appearance, as much open as in a foetus. * There have been instances of the canalis arteriosus being open in the adult.