OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 212 to stop that end, and the cut end of the artery introduced to the hot- tom or button ; this piece so inclosed was separated in the same manner. Having taken a piece of the carotid artery from each end, which were of course exactly of equal lengths, I weighed them, and found that the section of the upper end was one grain and a half heavier than that of the lower. The carotid artery of another camel, measuring three feet and a half in length, was found to send off forty-four small branches, about the size of the human intercostal arteries, with one as large as the ulnar. Of this artery' a transverse section, of one inch in length, being taken from each end and weighed, that from the lower end was found to weigh two scruples sixteen grains and a half, while that from the upper end weighed only two scruples fourteen grains and a half. In similar sec- tions of the opposite carotid, which sent off forty-seven branches, the difference in weight between the upper and lower section was five grains. Similar sections from carotid arteries of a swan being weighed, the lower sections were found to be three grains and a half heavier than the upper: the lower section weighing thirteen grains and a half. Had the lateral branches been preserved an inch long, being the length of the sections of the trunk, I believe each might have weighed above a grain ; and, in that case, the forty-four would have been nearly equal in weight to the trunk. Should this be true, the arteries increase very considerably, not only in their ramifications but in their trunks. I imagine if the carotid artery in the camel did not send off anyr branch in its course, it would increase in size, nearly in the same proportion with the umbilical artery, or the spermatic in the bull. It is to be observed that as arteries divide they increase in size much faster than if they did not. For instance, if a section of an arteiy two inches long is equally divided into two, the section that is the further from the heart shall be heavier than the other, perhaps by one grain; but if the most distant section had divided into two branches, the two, taken together, would have been a grain and a half heavier; if three branches, two grains heavier, &c. The increase of size in the arteries as they ramify is an effect of the numerous ramifications1. From what has been already said it must appear that arteries form a cone, whose apex is at the heart; and, if this be the case in the adult, we shall find that it must be more so in the young subject, and will every day become less as the child increases in growth. 1 [A pari of this increase in weight must be laid to the account of the increased su- perficies of the coats of the vessels. The solid contents only should have been weighed in order to have rendered these experiments perfectly accurate.]