451 OF PUS. observed : so that pus, from whatever surface, whether an irritated na- tural surface or the surface of a common sore, lias this property. „ Pus has a smeU in some degree peculiar to itself; but this differs. Some diseases, such for instance as the venereal gonorrhoea, it is pre- tended may be known by the smell. To ascertain the properties of pus, or to distinguish it from mucus, it has, with mucus, been put to the test of chemistry. Solution in men- trua, and precipitation, were thought to be a test of their distinction. This principle in its very first appearance is unphilosophical, and was at the very first treated by me as absurd. I conceived that all animal substance whatever, when in solution, either in acids or alkalis, would then be in the same state, and therefore that the precipitation would be the same m all. Calcareous earth, when dissolved in an acid, (for in- stance, the muriatic,) is in that acid in the same state, whether it has been dissolved from chalk, limestone, marble, or calcareous spar; and the precipitations from all are the same. However, whatever my opinion might be, yet bold assertions, the re- sult of described experiments, made me avoid falling into the same error, of describing what I never had seen. 1 made, therefore, some experi- ments on this subject; and, in consequence of having previously formed the above-mentioned opinion, I was more general in my experiments. J made them on organic animal matter as well as on inorganic, and the result was the same in all. . As orSanic animaI matter>1 took muscle, tendon, cartilage, gland, viz. liver and brain : as inorganic animal matter, I took pus and the white of an egg, and dissolved each in the vitriolic acid, and then precipitated the solution with vegetable alkali. Each precipitation I examined with such magnifiers as plainly showed the forms of the precipitate, all of which appeared to be flaky substances. The precipitate by the volatile alkali appeared exactly the same. To carry those experiments a little further, I dissolved the same sub- stance in the vegetable caustic alkali, and precipitated the solution with t e muriatic acid, and examined each precipitate with the microscope r^ukr fomaranCe "" ** ^ ^ a ^ Subatance> without any 1 o see how far the nature of sores might be ascertained from the na- ture of their discharge, matter from a cancerous sore has been analysed, «nd the result has been that such matter differs from the true pus ; but this explains nothing more than what the naked eye can perceive, that 's not pus, but it will not show the specific difference between the matter from a cancer and matter from a venereal bubo, where mercury has not been given, nor will it tell that one is cancer and the other is 2 g 2