320 THE adhesive inflammation. CHAPTER III. the adhesive inflammation. I shall begin by treating of the nature and effects of what I have called the adhesive inflammation, as well as giving a proper idea of it. I shall also open the way to a clear understanding of the many pheno- mena which attend the suppurative inflammation. But as inflamma- tion does not produce one effect only, but several, and as most of them take place about the same time, it is difficult to determine in the mind which to describe first. Inflammation in most cases appears to begin at a point: for at the very first commencement all the local symptoms are within a very small compass; and they afterwards spread according to the violence of the cause, the disposition in the parts for inflammation, and the nature of the surrounding parts themselves, which susceptibility in the surround- ing parts may be either constitutional or local. This is so much the case that inflammation shall come on at once in a fixed point, giving great pain, and which shall be soon followed by tumefaction. This is also the case with those inflammations which arise from accident, for all accidents are confined to fixed and determined limits; but the in- flammation which follows is not; it spreads over a large extent; yet the inflammation is always the greater the nearer it is to the first fixed point, and gradually becomes less and less in the surrounding parts, till at last it is insensibly lost in them. This spreading of the inflammation is owing to continued sympathy, the surrounding parts sympathizing with the point of irritation ; and in proportion to the health of the surrounding parts and constitution this the end of this volume. The symptoms and phenomena of inflammation of the ab- sorbents and inflammation of the veins are analogous in many respects, and very often occur together, particularly after parturition. The particular conditions which dispose to these inflammations are very imperfectly understood, but in general they undoubt- edly point to a broken down and highly irritable state of the constitution. Inflamma- tion of the absorbents is the most frequent of the two, and very often is the first sym- ptom of an attack of erysipelas, the inflammation passing outwards, as it were, with great facility, and extensively spreading on the skin. It is probably from the interpo- sition of the lymphatic glands preventing the circulation of pus, that inflammation of the absorbents is so much less fatal than that of the veins.]