THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 390 I believe that these powers have greater effects in diseases depending on or producing action and sensation, which are called nervous, than on those producing an alteration in the structure of parts. Thus we have the cramp in the leg cured by a gentle irritation round the lower part of the thigh, such as a garter, which may be said to arise from deriva- tion or sympathy; and I have known, in a nervous girl, a pain in one arm cured by rubbing the other. These cures by derivation, repulsion, translation, etc. do not deserve that name, although the patients arc cured of the original disease, as in many cases there is as large a quantity somewhere else in the body un- cured ; for example, in those cases where the cure is from some local inllammation being produced, and perhaps more violent than the first; but in other cases, where the cure arises only from an action in a part without a diseased alteration of structure, then the cure in such cases is performed without any other disease having been produced, such as sickness or vomiting curing a disease of the testicles. I have already observed that local applications were principally sup- posed to repel, by the first or second mode of action ; yet internal me- dicines having a specific, or what might be called a local action, although given internally, may repel by stopping the diseased action in the part which it chiefly affects, such as mercury falling on the mouth, might repel a disease from the mouth. Hemlock might do the same with regard to the head, or turpentine with regard to the urethra. In the last we often find by taking balsams, that by stopping the discharge a swelling of the testicles comes on, or an irritable bladder. As repulsion in this way is not so evident, it is less noticed. The uncertainty in the powTer of medicines respecting repulsion, has led surgeons into more errors than any other principle in the animal occonomy, with regard to diseases. primary laws which appear to govern these phenomena are, first, the tendency which there is in all animal bodies to preserve an equilibrium, in consequence of which it happens that when any one part of the frame is unusually excited, a corresponding di- minution takes place in the functions of other parts, so that in disease, the lesser disease gives way to the greater; and secondly, the affinities of structure and function, and the mutual relations which subsist between different parts, in a state of health; for it accords with experience, and at the same time is most agreeable to reason, to find that those parts which have a similarity of structure, and consequently of vital endowments, should be affected more readily by the causes of disease than parts of a different construction ; and also, that parts associated in health should likewise become associated in disease. The former law explains in some measure the general principle of metastasis; the latter, the particular cause which determines the disease to any one organ rather than to another. The author has expressed his opinion, that in these affections the inflammation, but not tin- disease, is translated (p, 325); but this is a refined distinction, in opposition to the general fact, that the liability to metastasis is almost exclusively confined to specific diseases.]