OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 209 >«orae places, and in these instances the uses of these systems of vessels . ire also in some measure reversed. Where all the three systems of , vessels have nearly the same mode of action, we find that their manner ■. of anastomosing is somewhat similar, and probably the differences might be easily accounted for. Wherever they appear to be simply carriers, ’then their mode of anastomosing is somewhat similar: however, the . absorbents anastomose more frequently than the veins, and the veins more than the arteries, and probably the absorbents anastomose every- where. This is not so much the case with the veins, and not in the ! least so in some parts with the arteries. Let us see if we can assign reasons for all this variety in the dif- ferent systems of vessels. The absorbents, from the office of absorbing, are to be considered only as carriers; and as they have no propelling force applied to their contents, and their coats are not strong, it is very probable that a free communication between vessel and vessel should take place ; upon the same general principle, the veins also anastomose, although perhaps not so frequently, and this difference majr be because : they have in some degree a propelling power applied to their contents, ; namely, the action of the heart. The arteries having a very strong propelling power applied to their contents, it was in them not necessary as a general principle; but where they arc placed in similar circum- stances we find them similar in this respect. Although the anastomosing of vessels is upon a general principle very i proper, yet in many cases it would appear to be very improper, as in : the following parts. The arteries do not anastomose in the kidneys. This cannot arise simply from there being no occasion for it, on account of there being no lateral mechanical obstruction : since, from the same mode of reasoning, the veins should not anastomose, which they do very freely. This want of anastomosis in the arteries, therefore, answers some purpose in the ceconomy of the part. In the liver, the branches of the vena port® do not anastomose, although the arteries do in their smaller branches : we may therefore suppose some particular purpose answered besides free communication ; and I believe the arteries do not anastomose in the substance of the brain, which makes the brain appear less vascular than it really is. We may observe, perhaps, as a general principle, that arteries near to their destination, where they are to per- form their particular functions, do not anastomose. Thus the artery of the kidneys, the vena port®*, the arteries in the substance of the brain, do not anastomose ; nor do the arteries on the villous coat of the intes- ’ tines. * This vessel should be considered as an artery. VOL. III. l*