FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 281 that debility is often the cause of increased inflammation, in consequence of any violence, and often the cause of mortification, is plainly shown in Mr. Dick’s account of dropsies among the troops in the East Indies. (Duncans Edin. Med. Com., x. 207.) In the first year of the attack in any man he durst not venture to scarify the legs ; but when they were attacked with the same disease the year following, which was often the case, whenever he attempted to scarify the legs a violent inflammation and mortification were the consequence. He was in this second attack obliged to have recourse to strengtheners ; and we may observe that, in the case of tapping, if the constitution is irritable, the cavity of the abdomen commonly feels the effect, and inflammation of the peritoneum and death is the consequence. As the effect which this inflammation has upon the constitution is by sympathy, it must be in proportion to the readiness with which the constitution assumes that action. This susceptibility is stronger in some constitutions than in others ; and every constitution is more sus- ceptible of sympathy with some parts of the body than with others. The kind of constitution which is least affected by this inflammation is that which is in general most healthy, where sympathy hardly takes place. This happens to be the case with such constitutions as can most readily perform all the different operations with ease; and when the parts inflamed are able to manage their own business they thereby affect the constitution less; for we shall find that a constitution may be affected by a local disease merely because it is beyond the power of the part to cure itself. But it is to be observed that constitutions in full vigour, or which have not been in the smallest degree accustomed to local disease, take the alarm much more readily than those which are not in such full health, or which have been accustomed to local disease. Thus, if a man in perfect health gets a very bad compound fracture in the leg, or has his leg taken off, either for this fracture or in consequence of any other ac- cident, he stands a much worse chance of recovery than one who has been accustomed to a local disease. Even the man with the compound fracture will do much better if his leg is not taken off till the first sym- ptoms are over* ; or at least we may be certain that the symptoms aris- ing from the amputation will not be nearly so great as those that arise [I he author, I apprehend, does not mean to advocate delay where the operation will certainly sooner or later become unavoidable, but only to state the fact that those who have long suffered from some local irritation generally bear operations the best. I may mention that the doctrine of delay is now universally disallowed by the best authori- ties, foreign and English, the most favourable time for operating being as soon after the constitution has rallied from the nervous impression caused by the accident as possible.]