GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 43 to the quantity of red particles in the blood, and may be of use to dilute ita. The serum is lighter than the other parts of the blood, and therefore swims above them when separated. It is commonly separated from the coagulating lymph when that fluid coagulates, and is therefore almost in hanging, drowning, hydrophobia, coup-de-soleil, lightning, blows on the stomach, overwhelming affections of the mind, intoxication, apoplexy, severe and mortal injuries of vital parts, and in most cases of poisoning; and, as opposed to these, in almost every respect in overdriven animals, typhoid and low fevers, cholera, scurvy, death from putrid food or putrid inoculations, &c. The former for the most part are examples of the sudden extinction of life attended with all the signs of previous health, the latter of the gradual decay of life attended with all the evidences of previous debility. There requires, therefore, evidently some more general principle than has yet been discovered to explain these diversities. The chemical and physiological explanations are in this respect both on a par; they both equally fail, as theories, in explaining all the circum- stances of the case. Mr. Hunter compared the coagulation of blood to union by the first intention, and in a larger sense to the act of nutrition and organical formations; but this opinion, as I shall have occasion hereafter to show, does not seem to be supported by any sufficient data. At present I shall content myself with remarking one striking difference, which is, that organized structures when once formed continue to live and to manifest an in- terior activity, whereas the blood when once coagulated undergoes the common changes of dead matter. The act of coagulation has also been compared to muscular contractility; but it differs from this in two essential respects: first, in not being followed by any relaxation ; and secondly, in not being stimulated to action by any of those agents which are apt to excite muscular contraction. It is further remarkable that prussic acid and extract of bella- donna, one of which is so fatal to life, aud the other so destructive of muscular action, do not in the least prevent a strong contraction of the coagulum ; but according to my judgment, no other argument is required to subvert the physiological hypothesis, than the fact that blood which has been kept fluid for an indefinite period of time by common salt, may yet be made to coagulate by the addition of water. It is remarkable that blood may be kept fluid and of a bright arterial colour for many months, or even years, by this means, and yet retain its coagulating property.] a [I shall take the liberty of extending the inquiry which is suggested in the text, to the following points : First, As to the relative proportion of nutritive to non-nutritive matters in the blood under different circumstances of age, sex, constitution, &c.; Secondly, As to the relative proportion which the red globules bcaT to the scrum; Thirdly, As to the variations which may occur in the quantity of albumen in common serum; and Fourthly, As to the relative quantity of salts. The data on which my observations on these points will be founded may be seen at large in M. Le Canu’s second memoir on the blood, contained in the Journal dc Phar- macie for October 1831. I. As to the relative proportion of nutritive to non-nutritive matters in the blood under different circumstances of age, sex, constitution, §c. 1000 parts of healthy blood being taken, the proportion of water and salts to the nutritive matters (fibrin, globules, and albumen) varied—