GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 122 secuted; but as I have not time at present to go through with the ex- periments, so as to arrive at some general result, I thought it better to notion of a peculiar arrangement of ultimate particles be correct, are within the reach of our observation. We want data, and therefore we must be content to limit our in- quiries to the more obvious phenomena of life ; to examine its laws and modes of action, and to ascertain how far these coincide with those of the other agents above mentioned. If we adopt this course,—and it is the only one by which wTe can hope to arrive at a solution of the problem,—we shall, I think, be obliged to admit the existence of some principle or agent distinct from those which govern unorganized bodies. In these we find nothing analogous to the vital phenomena of irritability, contractility, the nervous influence, &c., not to mention that a broad line of distinction seems also to exist in re- gard to the chemical composition, intimate structure, mode of growth, form, duration, &c. of these two classes of bodies. These marks of distinction are broad and obvious, and should make us careful in admitting the identity of the causes by which they are produced with others of which the effects are so very dissimilar, merely on the ground of some hastily admitted analogy. We are by no means to abstain from inquiring how far the ordinary laws of matter are employed in producing effects in organized bodies; but we should at the same time be prepared, when these laws will not account for the phenomena observed, to admit, the influence of another agent, the vital principle, the laws of which are to be patiently sought out and understood before we undertake to decide on its identity with other and apparently dissimilar agents. In reference to this subject, Mr. Hunter was accustomed to employ the illustration of magnetism, which may be generated by holding a bar of iron at a particular angle with the horizon. “ A bar of iron without magnetism may be considered like animal matter without life; set it upright, and it acquires a new property of attraction and re- pulsion at its different ends. Now is this any substance added ? or is it a certain change which takes place in the arrangement of the particles of iron giving it this property ?" I apprehend that no oue will be disposed to object to this illustration as a simple help to apprehension, however unphilosophical it may be to extend the parallelism to its ut- most limits, as Mr. Abernethy has done with respect to electricity. I have met with nothing in Mr. Hunter’s published or posthumous writings which warrants, or in the least degree countenances, the opinion that these principles are identifiable; the analogy is wholly fallacious; nor is there, so far as I am aware, any single instance in which the principle of electricity has ever produced the proper and genuine effects of the principle of life. It has 1 know been asserted by Dr. Wilson Philip (E.rper. Enquiry, 2nd edit. p. 246), that galvanism performs all the functions of the nervous influence ; that it excites the muscles ; that it effects the secretions of the stomach ; and that it occasions the evolution of caloric: but it may be replied, 1st, that many other stimuli affect the muscles besides galvanism ; 2nd, that digestion is not materially affected when the eighth pair of nerves is divided on the oesophagus; and 3rd, that the phenomena of animal heat are more easily explicable on chemical principles. Dr. Alison (Physiology, 2nd edit. p. 110c/ seq.) has fully and in my opinion most satisfactorily refuted this doctrine, to the support of which the name and authority of Hunter have been most unwarrantably adduced. Secondly, the existence of the living principle is ascribed to the materia viler diffusa, “ of which every part of an animal has its portion ; i. c. something similar to the brain diffused through the whole solids and fluids, making a necessary constituent part of them, and forming with them a perfect whole, giving to both the power of preservation, &c.”; but this, I apprehend, is not to be taken literally, for “ as the brain and nerves are composed of animal matter, and as that animal matter has life, or the first principle