THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 3G6 These modes of action we are first to understand, and then the power of correcting or counteracting those impressions, in order to diminish or prevent the action, so as to produce one that is healthy or natural. Besides, an injury which produces a new mode of action, and a disease which is a new mode of action, often happen when the machine is in perfect health, and in such a state as is perfectly in harmony with that health; but which state is not suitable to disease. Therefore it is to be presumed the more perfect health the body enjoys the less it bears a change in its actions. Thus we know that strong health does not bear considerable injuries, such as accidents, operations, &c. A man in strong health, for instance, will not bear a compound fracture in the leg, or an amputation of the same, so well as a man accustomed to such diseases and reduced by them. We find, commonly, that our artificial mode of reduction is by far too quick, and is almost as much a violence on the constitution as the injury; when therefore considerable injuries or dis- eases commence, the constitution is to be brought to that state which accords best with that accident or disease [see p. 281.]. The know- ledge of that state of the body at that time, as well as of the operations of the whole animal, or of its parts, when arising from a disturbed or deranged state, or a diseased disposition, are to be considered as the first steps towards a rational cure. But this alone is insufficient: the means of bringing the body to that state are also necessary, which will include the knowledge of certain causes and effects, acquired by expe- rience, including the application of many substances, called medicines, which have the power of counteracting the action of disease ; or of sub- stances perfectly inefficient in themselves, but capable under certain circumstances of producing considerable effects, sucli as water when hot and cold, or a substance when it varies its form, as from fluidity to va- pour. Of these virtues we know nothing definitely: all we know is, that some are capable of altering the mode of action, others of stimu- lating, many of counter-stimulating, some even of irritating, and others of quieting, so as to produce either a healthy disposition and action in a diseased part, or to change the disease to that action which accords with the medicine, or to quiet where there is too much action; and our reasoning goes no further than to make a proper application of those substunces with these virtues. 1 he difficulty is to ascertain the connexion of substance and virtue, and to apply this in restraining or altering any diseased action; and as that cannot be demonstrated u priori, it reduces the practice of medi- cine to experiment, and this not built upon well-determined data, but upon experience, resulting from probable data. This is not equally the case through the whole practice of medicine,