b‘06 ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. On the thirteenth the ligature came away, and in the course of the month the whole was healed, and the patient soon afterwards perfectly recovered. xit , „ VV illiam Lynn. This operation of Mr. Hunter’s having succeeded in the first instance, surgeons of different hospitals were led to adopt it, but with some vari- ation, according to their own judgment and the circumstances of the re- spective cases. These I did not introduce in the order in which they took place; for not being performed exactly in-the same manner, they would have interrupted the regular series of those cases above related. But I shall now give them either in the words of the surgeons who per- formed the operations, or as correctly as I can from having myself been an eye-witness; and although they were not attended with success, that circumstance will not be found to affect the propriety of the mode of performing this operation which has been recommended above. In a case of aneurism of the femoral artery, the operation was per- formed by Mr. Birch, surgeon to St. Thomas’s Hospital, who relates the history as follows: “John Lewis, a negro, aged forty-three, received a blow on the ante- rior part of the right thigh; about a month after he perceived a small tumour, which gradually increased, and his own expression was that he could feel it thump, thump. As the tumour enlarged, he came to London for advice, applied at St. I homas’s Hospital, on Thursday, the 26th of October, and was di- rectly admitted. On examination I found a large tumour, extending within two inehes of Poupart’s ligature upwards, and occupying two thirds of the thigh : a pulsation could be felt, and there was no doubt of the disease being an aneurism of the femoral artery'. I directed seven ounces of blood to be taken from the arm, and an opiate to be given at night; the patient rested well, and the next day a consultation was held, in which it was proposed to perform an opera- tion, and endeavour to pass a ligature round the femoral artery, giving the patient the chance of nourishing the limb by the arteria profunda and other anastomising vessels. “ 0n Friday, the 3rd of November, it was determined to perform the operation. Mr. Cline undertook to compress the artery as it passes through Poupart s ligament, which he easily effected with a hard com- press, in the shape of a T, with a broad basis. ' ^ was agreed, previous to the operation, that an incision should be carried in a semilunar form round the upper part of the aneurismal sac, in order to make room for the longitudinal incision necessary to dissect down to the artery. This was accordingly done, and the integuments