THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 370 all of which retard still more the restoration of the parts. As this de- fect can only be known in bone, and in the soft union of the bone, which is similar to the union in the soft parts, it is reasonable to sup- pose it may also take place in the soft parts, more especially those which are tendinous or ligamentous, where we find recovery very slow, for the soft union in bones differs in nothing from that of the soft parts; it may therefore be a much more common defect than is generally imagined. In such cases, if it could be known, it would be proper to encourage or even excite inflammation. If we cannot probably in any case determine where it should be excited, nor even where it should be checked, yet we can say in many cases where it is unnecessary to check it. Before we attempt to check inflammation, we should have reason to suppose it is going further than is necessary for the natural cure, and that it is therefore laying the foundation of work for the surgeon. It may be very difficult to say, in many cases, when it should be checked. The most simple reason will be to lessen pain, arising in a part not merely when moved or touched, but from the act of inflammation. Se- condly, where it may be uniting parts, the union of which we wish to avoid ; but this is an uncertain guide, even if we knew adhesions were taking place, for adhesions often prevent suppuration. Thirdly, to pre- vent the inflammation from suppurating ; and in this last, although the most obvious, yet there is less certainty how far we may advise the at- tempt. It is also the most difficult to efl’cct; for in many cases of spon- taneous ‘Inflammation, if it arises from a state under which the parts cannot exist nor their functions go on, similar to an exposed breach in flic solids, then resolution should not be attempted. It may be palli- ated when going beyond what is necessary for suppuration; but when this practice is carried further, it rather retards that salutary process. From the foregoing statement of particulars it must appear that in many cases it is unnecessary to check inflammation, in others it would he wrong, and in many very necessary; and probably the best guide is its going further than appears, from the [nature of the] cause, to be salu- tary. Vet in practice we find applications, and other modes of resolu- tion, immediately had recourse to, which must be considered as oppro- brious to surgery. Inflammations, in consequence of accidents, ought in general to be resolved, if possible. It is perhaps impossible to produce a single in- stance where a contrary practice would be preferable, except as above related, where its consequence would be to answer some great purpose; and it is also conceivable that this local disease, produced by accident, might relieve the constitution from some prior disorders, similar to what is understood to be the effects of an issue. Mr. Foote was relieved of