GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 99 t that some parts must have much more blood than others ; and we have now to mention that some parts have much larger vessels going to them ■ than others. This idea is confirmed, by the blood being the moving material of life, and taking a part in every action of it: its quantity is • to be found in proportion to those actions; and since the body is a com- pound of parts, or rather of actions, whose uses are known to vary con- siderably, we find blood directed to those parts in proportion to their actions ; and this we judge of by the size of the vessels and redness of 111 the part in those animals which have red blood, and we may suppose f the same in those which have not this part of the blood. The brain has considerable vessels, &c. going to it, yet its substance is white, which is in some degree owing to its opacity; the tongue is vascular; the thyroid gland is vascular; the lungs allow of the passage of the whole blood in most animals, and therefore have always a current of blood through them equal to the whole; the liver is extremely vascular, which is known from its proportion of vessels, as well as its colour; and as there is in this viscus a peculiar circulation, the very great quan- tity of blood passing through it adds to the quantity in the whole body. The spleen is extremely vascular, as are likewise the kidneys; the stomach and intestines have considerable vessels going to them, and the muscles in general, more especially those of labouring people ; for labour increases the quantity of blood in the whole, beyond simple nou- rishment in the full-grown, or beyond the mere growth in the young. In tracing the course of this nourishment in animals (which consists ultimately of the blood), from the most simple to the most complicated there is a pretty regular series; although this regularity is interrupted whenever there is a variety in the circumstances, which are to be taken into the account; but the whole of this forms too extensive a subject for our present consideration. If I were to begin at the formation of the blood, I should first treat of digestion in those animals which have stomachs; but this is a distinct subject. We may, however, begin with its immediate consequences, as digestion produces the first and most essential change, viz. the con- version of the food into a fluid called chyle. The chyle is the imme- diate effect or product of digestion, and is the seed wdiich, as it were, grows into blood, or may be said to be the blood not yet made perfect. The chyle, to appearance, varies in different animals. In the quad- ruped and in the crocodile it is white; but in most other animals it is transparent: where it is white its parts are more conspicuous than where it is transparent. In this respect it is similar to the red blood, and is found to consist of a coagulating matter, a serum, and white globules, which render it of a white colour, so as in some degree to resemble h 2