422 OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. §.5. Of the effects such Formations of Matter have on the Constitution. Whatever may he the extent of such collections of matter, they seldom if ever affect the constitution, unless they are seated in a vital part, or so connected with it as to disturb its functions. This is an effect of indolence in any disease. A young person shall have a lumbar abscess, for instance, for years, without a single constitutional symptom. It shall appear to be making its way through a number of parts, such as the loins behind, the buttocks, the lower part of the abdomen before, and through the upper part of the thigh; and in each part shall show large collections of matter. All these shall even attend the same person, and yet not any bad symptoms nor any shiverings shall accompany this suppuration*. In some there is not even the least degree of lameness, but this is often the first symptom of the disease in the lumbar abscess. Let us next consider and compare the consequences attending these two collections of matter when opened. When an abscess, in consequence of inflammation, is opened, it immediately proceeds towards a cure, and * I have heard surgeons ask such patients if they had rigors, even alluding to the time of increase ; this was applying the idea of the symptom of one disease to another, and also the first stage of a disease to the second. ease ; just as in the present case, having determined that “ true suppuration arises from inflammation, terminating in a disposition to heal,” the cases which do not correspond with this condition are considered as non-infiammatory. Undoubtedly the symptoms which mark the presence of inflammation in many chronic suppurations are often ob- scurely developed, but so are those which characterize the adhesive inflammation which precedes the approach of aneurisms and foreign bodies to the surface, or the formation of internal cysts, or the ulceration of the bones of the spine. Such indolent swellings, however, and chronic collections of matter, as are referred to by the author, almost always exhibit indications of increased heat, vascularity, and sensibility when near the surface of the body, while the causes to which they may in most cases be referred, tire products in which they commonly result, and the adhesions which invariably accompany their progress, so closely resemble those belonging to genuine inflammation that it is impossible to distinguish them. Whatever differences therefore may exist must be re- garded as differences of degree. Still, however, the question cannot be considered as decided whether suppuration may not take place independently of inflammation; for large collections of matter are sometimes found to occur simultaneously in various parts of the body without any well-defined marks of inflammation before or after death, or even the existence of mischief having been suspected until it has been fully revealed by dissection. Such purulent collections are most commonly found to occur in certain forms of constitutional irritation, of which that attending phlebitis may be regarded as the type, and often present the appearance of purulent metastases. I should conceive, however, that even these cases depend on inflammation, as it often happens that coagu- ktble lymph, either alone or in conjunction with pus, is poured out under such circum- stances.].