THE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. 528 Mr. Hunter has justly observed, in the division of the leg in amputation a great many different structures are divided, and yet they all become affected by the same inflam- mation, and show no difference, except under peculiar circumstances, in this respect. In fact the same inflammation may affect different structures, or the same structure be aft'ected by different inflammations, or inflammation may be transferred from one struc- ture to another. Structure, therefore, is merely a modificatory cause, and often of the least consequence in giving a peculiar character to the inflammatory action. Cellular Membrane.—This structure forms the basis of all the organs of the body, and therefore may not improbably constitute the proper seat of inflammation, as well as the proper generative tissue, in all cases; for we may observe that the lymph effused in in- flammation is always the same, from whatever structure it proceeds ; that the process of union is likewise similar for all parts; and that in the regeneration of tissues the pro- duction of cellular membrane is invariably the first effort of the organizing principle. It seems not unlikely, therefore, that this uniformity of effect is to be referred to the cellular structure being always affected. The cellular membrane is remarkably sus- ceptible of inflammation, which is generally characterized by the sthenic type, acute throbbing pain, and the rapid and abundant effusion of coagulable matters. It readily passes into all the terminations of inflammation; that is, adhesion, suppuration, ulcera- tion, and mortification. Inflammation of this structure in a healthy constitution shows little disposition to spread, in consequence of the cells being speedily united by coagu- lable lymph; but under certain states of impaired health, and in particular kinds of in- flammation, as, for instance, of the veins, or that arising from the inoculation with morbid poisons, it spreads with great rapidity; not circumferentially, as in a state of health, but irregularly, attended with comparatively little pain. In consequence of adhesive matter not being poured out, the foul sanies, which is secreted instead of pus, easily pervades the cells of this membrane, and carries devastation before it, producing a quaggy state of the subjacent parts, arising from a mixture of pus with sloughy cellular membrane. The seat of this inflammation is usually the subadipose or subfacial cellular membrane; and though in its local and constitutional effects it closely resembles the erysipelas phlegmonoides, yet in the former case the skin remains unaffected, so as to conceal in great measure the mischief which has taken place. In these cases simultaneous puru- lent depositions not uncommonly take place in various situations of the body. (Tr. of Med. and Chir. Soc. of Edin., vol. i.; Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., xxiv. 225.; Travers on Constitutional Irritation j and Med. and Chir. Tr. of London, vol. xvi.) Dermoidal Tissue.—Inflammation of the skin affords the best type of inflammatory affections, for here it is that the external marks of inflammation are most conspicuously developed; the phenomena, however, are much diversified, according to the part of the skin which happens to be affected. If the external layer of the corion is affected, as in erythema and erysipelas, the inflammation is apt to spread ; if the papillae or muciparous follicles, or the bulbous roots of the hair, then the character of the inflammation is that of the circumscribed eruptive disorders; and if the internal and attached surface, then that of the boil, carbuncle, and phlegmon. The skin is easily inflamed by direct me- chanical and chemical injuries, but in a state of health this inflammation is not apt to extend itself. It is also peculiarly accessible to inflammation from morbid poisons or vitiated states of the system, and hence the pathological conditions of this system have always afforded the chief arguments to the humoral pathologists. The dermoidal and mucous tissues offer many points of affinity, both in a physiological and patholo- gical view. In both inflammation is apt to migrate from one part to another, overleaping the intermediate portion ; in both pustular and follicular inflammations occur; ulceration and mortification take place in both with great facility, and in both it is observable that their morbid states reciprocally influence one another. It may also be noted, that neither of these tissues is subject to the ossific transformation. The regenerative