506 EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION, AND ITS CHAPTER IX. EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION, AND ITS CONSEQUENCES ON THE CONSTITUTION. rp A HE constitutional affections arising from inflammation arc immediate and remote. The immediate affections have been already considered, viz. the sym- pathetic fever, and also the nervous. I shall now treat of the remote, viz. the hectic, and dissolution, which arise from the state of the local affection at the time ; the inflammation not being able to go through all the salutary steps that have been described. We have diseases, how- ever, sometimes accompanying those salutary processes; although we should naturally conclude from the foregoing account, that the suppu- rative inflammation, and suppuration itself, should produce no change in the constitution but what was attendant upon the inflammation, and might be supposed perhaps somewhat necessary to it; and that when inflammation had subsided, and a kind suppuration come on, the con- stitution should be left in a sound state, because it would now appear that all the future processes were settled; and [therefore that] a consti- tution that was capable of doing this, was also capable of going through all the succeeding operations, as they are only actions of restoration ; but we find sometimes the contrary, and the condition in which the constitution is either left, or which it afterwards takes on, proves often much more hurtful than the inflammation itself. It appears in many cases that the inflammation, the attendant fever, the going off of these, and the commencement and continuance of the suppuration produce in many persons a change in the constitution, giving a disposition to symptoms which are called nervous. The locked jaw is often the effect of this leading cause, as well as hysterics, spasms upon the muscles of respiration, and great restlessness, which often prove fatal to the patient; there are likewise signs of great and universal debility or signs of dissolution in the patient, all of which appear to be increased by a continuance of the suppuration. Each of these diseases is well marked ; and it would appear that the locked jaw, hysterics, spasms, and great restlessness arc of the nervous kind, and do not appear to arise from such a constitution as is not equal to over- come the cause, for the cause which produced them beinu removed, the