S‘2 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. arteries; right ventricle, right auricle, and all the veins in the body : however, a smaller quantity than usual could get to the veins of the body through the arteries, so that a kind of circulation went on. If we consider the effect arising from this construction of valves simply on mechanical principles, we cannot account for the darkness of the arterial blood, which must have passed through the lungs when there was no mechanical obstruction to respiration ; but since it happens ; that when the heart either ceases to act, or cannot get rid of its blood (which must have been the case in the present instance), respiration ceases, or is performed so imperfectly as to have nearly the same effect*, the person is in reality in a state of suffocation. Suffocation is no more than imperfect respiration, which is the cause of imperfect blood passing to and from the left side of the heart; and it is therefore immaterial, as to consequences, whether a stoppage to respiration is the first cause, or is an effect, for in either way it is the cause of imperfect blood being introduced into the arterial system. It may be difficult to account for the increased size of the heart; whether it was a mechanical effect, as the blood would be thrown back into it at every systole of the aorta and diastole of the heart, or w’hether it arose from a particular affection of that viscus. The first idea is the more natural; but it is not necessary that the cause should be of this kind, for we see every day enlarged hearts, where the symptoms have j been somew'hat similar, and yet no visible mecliauical cause existed ; 1 and indeed it is a common effect where there is an impeded circulation. J It is easy to be conceived, first, that the circulation could not, in the 1 case of this patient, be carried on regularly and perfectly ; secondly, that | a stoppage to the blood’s motion in either arteries or veins, but much more a retrograde motion of the blood in any part, must produce a stag- ' nation, which will be more or less extensive, according to the quantity j of blood passing that way ; thirdly, that if it was only in a branch of an ' artery', or vein, the stagnation would probably be only partial; but j when in an artery', or the veins of the whole body, as the aorta or vena ] cava, it must then be pretty universal; and as the retrograde motion in j the blood began in the aorta, w'e can easily trace its effects. We also I find, in imperfect constructions of the heart, etc., where there is a com- 1 munication between the right and left side, kept up after birth, that the 1 same circumstances and appearances take place; cases of this kind fre quently occur, of which the following is a strong instance. I was several times consulted about the state of a young gentleman's ? health, and though it could not be said anatomically, with precision, * * In such inspirations I conceive that so little air is taken in as hardly to reach the 9 cells of the lungs, so as to be able to influence the blood circulating on those cells.