OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 431 same symptoms in many diseases, especially those occasioned by an operation, which in general alarm, but which should not if they go through their stages. A patient of mine, at St. George’s Hospital, was cut for the stone: he had no uncommon symptoms for several weeks, when he was taken with a cold fit, which was succeeded by a hot one, and then by a pro- fuse sweat. The young gentlemen of the hospital were rather alarmed, conceiving them to be the signs of dissolution; but I told them that this was of no consequence, as the disease had completed its full action ; that it was either a regular ague, or arose from the irritation of the wound; and if the first, he would have more of them at stated periods, which the bark would probably cure; but if the second, it might not re- turn, for since the constitution was in possession of the complete ac- tion, that when the parts got better he would be well. He had no more, and went on doing as well as if no such fit had ever taken place. This is not the only instance of this nature. Here it is to be considered that those affections of the constitution arc effects of the local action of the solids, either when produced by spon- taneous causes or by accident; but there are sometimes constitutional symptoms or universal sympathies, which arise immediately out of the act of violence itself, and which are often dangerous. Loss of blood may be reckoned one cause, which will bring on all kinds of constitu- tional complaints, in consequence of weakness being produced; either immediate, as fainting, or secondary, as dropsies, as well as nervous af- fections, the locked jaw, for instance ; or violence alone, without the loss of blood, may often produce immediate fatal effects. I have seen a man thrown into such convulsions from the operation of the hydrocele being performed upon him, that I began to despair of his recover)'. I have known a man die immediately of castration. These symptoms are somewhat similar to the second, or nervous, but are still very different; for in the present the persons are as it were lost to them- selves, being rendered senseless, therefore it is probably more an affec- tion of the brain than the nerves. Another symptom attending inflammation, when it has affected the constitution, is frequent exacerbations, or periods in which the inflam- mation appears to be increased. They have great affinity to the rigors we have been mentioning. Exacerbations are common to all constitu- tional diseases, and would often appear to belong to many local com- plaints. They are commonly regular if the constitution is strong, hav- ing their stated times, and in proportion as they are so the disease is less dangerous. They are a repetition of the first attack, but seldom so stiong, except where there is a perfect cessation in the disease between