ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 601 branch called profunda, and a little below the division into the arteriae tibiales and interossea. The arteries and veins that were pervious being injected, the whole was carefully dissected. The femoral artery was impervious from its giving off the arteria pro- funda as low as the part included in the ligature, and at that part there was an ossification for about an inch and an half along the course of the artery, of an oval form, the rim of which was solid, becoming thinner towards the centre, and not bony, but ligamentous. Below this part the femoral artery was pervious down to the aneurismal sac, and con- tained blood, but did not communicate with the sac itself, having become impervious just at the entrance. What remained of the aneurismal sac was somewhat larger than a hen’s egg, but more oblong, and a little flattened, extending along the artery below for some way, the blood pressing with greater force in that direction, and distending that part so as in some measure to give the appearance of a separate bag. The sac was perfectly circumscribed, not having the smallest remains of the lower orifice into the popliteal artery ; whether this arose from the artery being pressed upon by the inferior portion of the sac, as appears to be the case in common, or was in con- sequence of the sac contracting after the operation, I will not pretend to determine ; but it contained a solid coagulum of blood, which adhered to its internal surface. A section made of this coagulum appeared to be composed of concentric lamellae, uniform in colour and consistence. The popliteal artery, a little way below the aneurismal sac, was joined by a small branch, very much contracted, which must have arisen either from the profunda, or the trunk of the femoral artery. About two inches below the sac, the popliteal gave off, or divided into the tibiales. The profunda was of the usual size, but a good deal ossified for some length after leaving the femoral artery; the two tibials, where they go off from the popliteal, were in the same state. The trunk of the femoral vein, where it passed along the side of the tumour, must have been obliterated, for at this part it appeared to send off three equal-sized branches, passing over different parts of the aneu- rismal sac : these must have been dilated branches, none of them having the course which the trunk of the vein should have pursued. lliese appearances throw some light upon the changes which took place in the limb after the operation. The ligature upon the femoral artery impeded the passage of the blood into the sac so much as to al- low its contents to coagulate, and render the opening into it from the artery impervious. By this a stop was only put to the increase of the tumour; its reduction to the size met with in the dead body, must have been the effect of absorption.