OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 180 dium* ; but the insect tribe, whether aerial, aquatic, or terrestrial, have none, their heart being attached to the surrounding parts by the cellular membrane, or some other mode of attachment. In those ani- mals which have this bag it is not a smooth termination of the cellular membrane, as the peritonseum may be supposed to be, but a distinct bag, as in man and all quadrupeds. The use of this bag is probably that the heart may move with more ease and facility; the two parts, to wit, the contained and containing, acting as a kind of joint with a capsular ligament, and like such joints it contains a fluid, but not a synovia, as the two surfaces are not hard like cartilage; besides, the heart is kept very much in its place, which we must suppose is of use. I have conceived it also to be possible, as it is a pretty strong membrane, that it might in some degree preserve the heart from too great distension; for I have observed, by injections, that a little force will distend it beyond its natural size, if a part of the pericardium be taken off; but in the heart mentioned by Dr. Baillie there was no particular increase of bulk. This bag, Hke most others, has a fluid which moistens the two sur- faces. In every other cavity of the body the fluid is no more in quan- tity than what is simply sufficient to moisten the parts. In this bag, however, it is more, from whence it has acquired the name of liquor pericardii. There may be about a tea-spoonful in the whole. This fluid appears to be serum, and is commonly a little tinged with blood, which arises from the transudation of the red blood after death. That this cavity has more water in it than most other cavities of the body, may arise from there being a greater action of those parts on one an- other than takes place in others; it may also fill up the interstices formed between two round bodies, so that when the pulmonary artery and aorta arc filled they may more easily assume a round figure. The size of a heart we should naturally suppose is proportioned to the size of the animal and the natural quantity of blood, which last is, we might conceive, ever in proportion to the size of the animal; but I believe these modes of calculation will not be found to be just, for certainly some animals have much more blood in proportion to their size than others; and I believe the heart is not in size proportioned to the size of the animal, but bears a compound proportion or ratio to the quantity of blood * There have been instances where the pericardium has been wanting in the human subject: a case of this kind is published by Dr. Baillie, in a periodical work entitled “ Transactions of a Society instituted for promoting Medical and Chirurgical Know- ledge.”