OF TIIE TREATMENT OF GUN-SIIOT WOUNDS. 561 Extravasations of blood into the cavity of the abdomen will take place more or less in all penetrating wounds, and more especially if some vis- cus is wounded, as they are all extremely vascular; and this will prove dangerous or not, according to the quantity. These are the immediate and general symptoms upon such parts being wounded; but other symptoms may arise, in consequence of some of those viscera being wounded, which require particular attention. There may be wounds of the liver and spleen which produce no symptoms but what are immediate, and may soon take on the healing disposition ; but wounds in those viscera which contain extraneous matter, such as the stomach, intestines, kidneys, ureters, and bladder may produce second- ary symptoms of a distinctive kind. If the injury is done by a ball to any of those viscera, the effect may be of two kinds : one where it makes a wound, as stated above, the other where it only produces death in a part of any of them ; these will produce very different effects. The first will most probably be always dangerous : the second will hardly ever be so. 1 he first is where the ball has wounded some one of the above- mentioned viscera in such a manner as not to produce the symptoms already described, but one common to them all, viz. their contents or extraneous matter immediately escaping into the cavity of the abdomen. Such cases will seldom or ever do well, as their effect will hinder the above-mentioned adhesions taking place ; the consequence of which will be that universal inflammation on the peritoneum will take place, at- tended with great pain, tension, and death. But all this will be in pro- portion to the quahtity of wound in the part, and quantity of contents capable of escaping into the cavity of the abdomen ; for if the wound is small, and the bowels not full, then adhesions may take place all round the wound, which will confine the contained matter, and make it go on in its right channel. These adhesions may take place very early, as the following case show's. 1 he case of an officer who died of a wound which Jjie received in a duel. On Thursday morning, the 4th of September, 1783, about seven o’clock, an officer fought a duel in the Ring in Hyde-park, in which he exchanged three shots with his antagonist, whose last shot struck him on the right side, just below' the last rib, and appeared under the skin on the opposite side, exactly in the corresponding place, and was imme- diately cut out by Mr. Grant. About three hours after receiving this wound, I saw him with Mr. Grant. He was pretty quiet, not in much pain, rather low', pulse not quick nor full, and a sleepy languidness in the eye, which made me sus- pect something more than a common wound. He then had neither had a stool nor made w'ater, and therefore it could not be said what viscera VOL. III. 2 o