7 INTRODUCTION. first cause, as delirium, spasm, almost of all kinds and in all parts, locked- jaw, &c. The hectic fever is also a universal sympathy, attended with a local disease which the constitution is not able to overcome. Most of these will be more fully treated of when I have occasion to describe their causes. I divide partial sympathy into three kinds: the remote, the contigu- ous, and the continuous. Tire remote sympathy is where there appears no visible connexion of parts that can account for such effects. In these cases there is com- monly a sensation in the sympathiser which appears to be delusive, and produces a wrong reference of the mind to the seat of the disease, such as the pain of the shoulder in an inflammation of the liver. The contiguous sympathy is that which appears to have no other con- nexion than arises from the contact of separate parts. An instance of which we have in contained parts sympathising with the containing; such as the stomach and intestines sympathising with the integuments of the abdomen, the lungs with the chest, the brain with the scalp, and the testicles with the scrotum. The continuous sympathy is where there is no interruption of parts, and the sympathy runs or is continued along from the irritating point as from a centre, so as to be gradually lost in the surrounding parts in proportion to the distance ; and this is the most common of all the sym- pathies. An example of it we have in the spreading of inflammation, which will be often mentioned in this treatise®. §.4. Of Mortification. Mortification is of two kinds, the one without inflammation, and the other preceded by it. But as the cases of mortification which will be mentioned in this work are all of the second kind, I shall confine my observations to that species. I consider inflammation as an increased action of that power which a part naturally possesses; and in healthy inflammations, at least, it is probably attended with an increase of power; but in inflammations 8 [See the chapter on Sympathy, Vol. I. p. 317, for a more complete exposition of Mr. Hunter’s views on this subject. It is doubtless in many cases possible to trace the sympathy to a particular distribu- tion of the nerves, as when, for example, the nerves of the affected and sympathising parts derive their origin from the same parts of the nervous centre. Thus, pain in the back is occasioned by irritation of the pelvic viscera, and hemicrania from caries of the teeth. A perfect knowledge of the minute anatomy of the brain, and of the functions °f its different parts, would probably unfold the whole mystery of this subject.]