ON LOOSE CARTILAGES IN JOINTS. 628 slightly concave, or rather had two depressions, with a middle ridge ; the lower one was smaller and rounded, and was adapted to both con- cavities, which received it in the different motions of the parts. The surfaces of the bones fitted for motion were not completely covered with cartilage, but studded over with it, and the bone was exposed in the interstices; a number of projecting parts, covered with cartilage, grew out from the surfaces, some exceedingly small, others large. From the edges of the bones and the capsular ligaments these excrescences were larger, extremely irregular in their shape, broader in their attach- ments, softer in their texture, and serrated upon the external edge, Thiity or foity small substances, similar to these above mentioned, were found loose in the cavity, varying in size from that of millet-seed to that ol a barley-corn, of a roundish form, and smooth on the surface • the largest of them were more flattened and serrated. Their hardness varied considerably, some of them being as soft as cartilage, others so solid as not to be pierced by a needle. Those bodies must have been ori- ginally attached, and broken off by the friction of the parts on one another. I he preternatural cavity which I have described was in its nature and use similar to the naturally formed joints of the body ; these excrescences and loose bodies were its principal peculiarities, the formation of which appears to have been the result of the violence committed on the parts previously to the formation of the joint, and may be explained in the following manner. W hen the bone was broken the ruptured vessels poured out their contents into the interstices of the lacerated pints, for the purpose of uniting them again ; this, however, not taking place, it was necessary to accommodate the parts to their disunited state; to this end the blood, which had now become useless, was in part absorbed, and the new joint formed. The remains of the coagulated blood, which had not given the stimulus for its own absorption, underwent changes in its nature, as- similating it as much as possible to that of the surfaces to which it was attached, in some parts its texture resembling ligament, in others being more allied to cartilage or bone. When we compare these substances with the loose cartilages found in the knee-joint, which are also produced in consequence of accidental violence, and similar in their appearance, xve are naturally led to con- clude that the latter originate from extravasations of blood, altered in its nature by the parts in which it is deposited, similar to those in the artificial joint above described. In both cases they are evidently new- formed substances, and the readiest mode by which we can account for their production is to refer them thus to the blood, from which fluid every part of the body was originally formed.