GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 96 tity; the first probably immediately, the other slowly; but even then, although under par, it is so slowly made up as not to constitute sudden acid and oxygen is respectively as 5§ and 113 minutes, while that for nitrogen is too inconsiderable to be assigned, it would not be possible, even admitting an attraction between gases to exist, to explain this property of oxygen ; for whatever may be the rate of penetration, the attraction between gases must be equal; consequently, as the proportion of nitrogen to oxygen is as 79 to 21, the attractive power of the former will be nearly four times greater than that of the latter, and be moreover constantly present (in consequence of the low rate of penetrativeness of this gas) to aid in “ lifting out the carbonic acid.” From these considerations, therefore, I conclude that the ascription of a latent power of attraction to oxygen is both an unfounded and an inadequate sup- position. 3. The presence of oxygen and the absence of carbonic acid in arterial blood have never been satisfactorily ascertained by accurate experiment; for, notwithstanding the assertion of Dr. Stevens that arterial blood contains no carbonic acid, a different result has been obtained by MM. Tiedcmann and Gmelin (Poggendor/'s Annal., xxxii.), so that this point must certainly be regarded at present as undecided. 4. It has also been objected, 1st, that venous blood coagulated in vacuo parts with a portion of its carbonic acid, and yet remains black, nay blacker than before, although if oxygen be admitted in this state the red colour is restored; and 2nd, that arterial blood (as has been remarked in the preceding note) grows black when congulated in vacuo, or even when confined in pure oxygen. In answer to the first of these objections, it has been replied that the attraction between carbonic acid and blood is greater than can be overcome by one atmosphere, so that the air-pump is an insufficient means of ridding the blood of this gas, but only draws it to the surface, by which it blackens it still more. But this explanation is not satisfactory; because although the air-pump cannot draw out the whole, it yet draws out a part; besides which, hydrogen and ni- trogen, which draw out the whole, strongly blacken the blood, although they have no chemical action upon it. (Dublin Journ., ii. 72; Lancet, 1831-32, ii. 659; Med. Ga- zette, xi. 881.) In respect to the gradual blackening of arterial blood in pure oxygen, it has been replied that the blood acts on itself when out of the body in a way some- what analogous to what happens to it in the capillaries of the living animal (see pre- ceding note), that is, various complex affinities are brought into exercise from the union and gradual action of the oxygen on some of the component parts of the blood, in con- sequence of which the whole composition of this fluid is altered, and probably carbonic acid produced. But this explanation is not more satisfactory than the preceding, be- cause, in the first place, a number of things are here assumed which are not proveable, and in the second place it is reasonable to suppose that the blackening effect on the blood is always due to the same cause ; which cause cannot be the one here assumed ; because, if it were, the oxygen which is present would invariably carry off the carbonic acid as fast as it is generated, and restore the red colour. (See Williams in Med. Ga- zette, xvi. 813.) With respect to the readmission of oxygen restoring the red colour to arterial blood which has been blackened in vacuo, I believe no explanation has yet been attempted, although the fact itself has been partly denied. Upon the whole, there- fore, these are real objections, which must he allowed their due weight in considering this subject. 5. The objection that carbonic acid does not blacken the blood (Lancet ut supra) has been completely removed by Mr. Hoffman, who found that a stream of carbonic acid passed through oxygenized blood gradually converted it to a black colour. (Med. Gazette, xi. 881.) The same author has also confirmed the statement of Dr. Stevens that a