UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 264 should allow it to go on, and occasionally press the scab in order to squeeze out the pus ; for it very often happens that the red circle sur- rounding the scab becomes of a dusky brown, which is the best sign of resolution, the suppuration diminishes, and the whole does well. But if inflammation should proceed further, and seem to be increased by the mode of treatment, it must not be urged further: the scab should be poulticed, in order to soften it, that it may come off easily, and the case should afterwards be treated according to the nature of the sore. This practice succeeds wonderfully well in cases where we find ap- plications of all kinds disagree with the skin. A person shall get a blow on the shin which shall probably deaden a part; a poultice is then often applied; that poultice brings out pimples on the surrounding skin ; these pimples increase and become sores of some breadth; the poultice is in- creased in breadth to cover them; new pimples arise, and so on, till I have seen a whole leg full of those sores. In such cases I always allow the wound to scab ; and, to accomplish this, the best way is to take off the dressings in the morning, and put on trowsers, without stockings, and by the evening the parts are scabbed ; or we may powder them with lapis calaminaris, or chalk finely pow'dered, and desire the patient to go to bed, for the first night, with the trowsers on: where the sore has been only one, I have made a circular pad, and bound that on till the scab was formed. The mode of assisting the cure of wounds by permitting a scab to form is likewise applicable, in some cases, to that species of accident where the parts have not only been lacerated, but deprived of life. If the deadened surface is not allowed to dry or scab, it must separate from the living parts, by which means these will be exposed, and suppuration brought on ; but if the whole can be made to dry, the parts underneath the slough will cicatrize, and the dried slough will at last drop off. I have seen this take place after the application of a caustic, and many other sloughs. Where this can be effected it is the best practice, as it will preclude inflammation and suppuration, which in most cases should be avoided if possible. I have treated many cases in this way, and the living parts underneath have formed a skin as the slough separated. This will more readily take place where the cutis is not deprived of life through its whole substance; for it has a much stronger disposition and greater powers to restore itself than the cellular membrane has to form a new cutis; indeed the skin formed upon entire newr flesh is very dif- ferent from the original cutis ; therefore, as the skin is the part most liable to these accidents, we have the best chance of succeeding in this way when the cutis alone is injured. This practice is the very best for bums or scalds, after the inflam-