PART II. CHAPTER I. UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. I MAY observe, that all alterations in the natural dispositions of a body arc the result either of injury or disease; and that all deviations from its natural actions arise from a new disposition being formed®. Injury is commonly simple; disease more complicated. The dispositions aris- ing from these are of three kinds: the first is the disposition of resto- ration, in consequence of some immediate mischief, and is the most simple. The second is the disposition arising from necessity; as, for in- stance, that which produces the action of thickening parts, of ulceration, &c. This is a little more complicated than the former, as it may arise both from accident and disease, and therefore becomes a compound of the two. The third is the disposition in consequence of disease; which is more complicated than either, as diseases are infinite. Yet many local diseases, although complex in their natures, are so simple in their ex- tent as to allow the removal of the diseased part; becoming, when that is done, similar to many accidents11. As disease is a wrong action of the living parts, the restoration to health must first consist in stopping the diseased dispositions and actions, and then in a retrograde motion towards health. * [This observation is probably correct as far as regards injuries, which necessitate a new disposition, and consequently new actions, in order to repair the injury. But with regard to disease, it is, I think, manifestly wrong. Disease is a disordered state of action of the living parts, which must have been preceded by a disposition to such state of action. IIow, then, can such an alteration in the disposition be considered as the re- sult of disease ? It should rather be, all alterations in the natural dispositions of the body are the result of injury or some other cause tending to disorder them.] b [It would probably have been better to have divided these dispositions into two kinds, viz. healthy and unhealthy. The temporary thickening of the parts in the union of fractured bones and numberless other processes is as much a restorative action as union by the first intention, not to mention that this bust action is invariably attended with some degree of thickening of the parts.]