OF PUS. 450 gulated this fluid : not finding that a solution of this salt coagulated any other of our natural juices, I concluded that globules swimming in a fluid that was coagulable by this salt was to be considered as pus, and would be always formed in sores that had no peculiar backwardness to heal. The proportion that these w'hite globules in the pus bears to the other parts, depends on the health of the parts which formed it; for when they are in a large proportion the matter is thicker and whiter, and is called good matter ; the meaning of which is that the solids which produced it are in good health, for these appearances in the matter are no more than the result of certain salutary processes going on in the solids, the effect of which processes is to produce the disposition on which both suppuration and granulation depend. All this is a good deal similar to the formation of milk ; for in the commencement of the secretion of this fluid it is at first principally serum, and as the animal advances towards delivery the globules are forming and become more in quantity, and the animal that has them in largest quantity has the richest milk; likewise when they are naturally leaving off secreting milk, it again takes an exact retrograde motion; and we may also observe, that if any local affection attacks this gland, such as inflammation, the milk falls back to the state I have been now describing; or if any constitutional affec- tion takes place, such as fever, &c., then this gland suffers in the same manner. Pus is specifically heavier than water; it is probably nearly of the same weight with blood or any other animal substance rendered fluid. Pus, besides the above-mentioned properties, has a sweetish and mawkish taste, probably from having sugar in it, which is very differ- ent from most other secretions, and the same taste takes place whether it is pus from a sore, viz. an ulcer, or an irritated inflamed surface. Thus, if any have an ulcer in their nose, mouth, throat, lungs, or parts adja- cent, so that the matter shall come into the mouth unaltered by putre- faction, they will be able to taste it from its having this property; whereas the mucus and saliva of those parts are tasteless. The same thing happens when an irritation to inflammation takes place on the surface of those parts without ulceration. If the internal surface of the nose is inflamed, so that when we blow it on a white handkerchief we see the substance discharged of a yellow colour, we also find that when we draw up the same substance into the mouth that it has a sweetish mawkish taste. If it is the surface of the mouth or throat that discharges this matter, the same taste is observable; and if it is brought up from the trachea and lungs, in consequence of the common effects of a cold on those parts, the same taste is also to be