UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 257 §. 3. Practical Observations respecting Union by the first In- tention. It is with a view to this principle of union that it has been recom- mended to bring the sides or lips of wounds together; but as the natural elasticity of the parts makes them recede, it has been found necessary to employ art for that purpose. This necessity first suggested the prac- tice of sewing wounds, and afterwards gave rise to various inventions in order to answer this end, such as bandages, sticking-plasters, and ligatures.. Among these, the bandage commonly called the uniting bandage is preferable to all the rest, where it can be employed; but its application is very confined, from being only adapted to parts where a ro er can be used. A piece of sticking-plaster, which has been called the dry suture is more general in its application than the uniting ban- dage, and is therefore preferable to it on many occasions. I can hardly suppose a wound, in any situation, where it may not be applied excepting penetrating wounds, where we wish the inner por- tion of the wound to be closed equally with tbe outer, as in the case of hare-lip. But even in such wounds, if the parts are thick and the wound not large, the sides will seldom recede so far as to make any other means necessary. The dry suture has an advantage over stitches the f thC W°Und t0Sether’ ^ not inflaming ' the parts to which it is applied, and by neither producing in them sup! 1 puration or ulceration, which stitches always do3. When parts, there- the oestrum bovis [CEstrus bovis, Fabriciusl whiM. • , the oestrum tarcndi [CEstrus iarandi (both back and nose'^f re^^eeO^FalrLT’V' which lays its eggs in the back of the reindeer • tl.e , , r. 1 abr,cius], iEssEsns r zr zr:r':1 americamu, Linna-us], which Jays its cans lr ti "V- CX1<° CS Cd n,Igna C^”* jJi: tt;ir“cyo“ ”f sticking-plaster. In operations un.m ,/ . eSpeclaI1y the »'<errupted suture and arcs may thin be with ^ ” u "n,°n by ‘ymph wiK be ^complished, and the ligu- Z ! ?Wlll,0Utpr0ducin8 either suppuration or ulceration, or oncufrenu/ .“T®.”* !®arks' Sutures may be employed in a multitude of other cases XuriblT „ ! ‘Ckmg-plar and ba"da«cs’ «« greatest advantage. The’ irely visionary 1 s"t' Pr‘Kt'te 1>y Plbrac and some of the French academicians are cn- VOL. m.