UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 250 other operation of the parts, called inflammation, which is often of sin- gular service, by increasing the power of union in the broken parts. This inflammation will generally be in proportion to the degree of injury done, the nature of the parts injured, and the state of the con- stitution at the time, which, in other words, is in proportion to what is requisite for the first powers of union. But it sometimes happens that inflammation goes further than is required, and produces a variety of actions succeeding each other in regular progression1. This may occa- sionally be observed in certain simple fractures, in which the extrava- sated blood acting as an extraneous body, becomes the cause of the suppurative inflammation; and the simple is in this way brought to a state resembling the compound fracture. The inflammation, however, does not extend over all the lacerated parts, as when they are exposed at the time of the injury, many of these having united by the first in- tention. We may here observe, that accidents of the most simple kind may produce effects which do not allow the common operations of nature to take place, as when a large blood-vessel is broken, or when a fractured rib penetrates into the lungs, or a compression of the brain arises from a fracture of the skull. But none of these accidents admit of the modes of cure above mentioned, as they each require particular treatment, and therefore are not to our present purpose. * [Among the conditions necessary to ensure the success of union by the first inten- tion, those which refer to the constitutional peculiarities of the individual are most de- serving of attention; as, for instance, a predisposition to gout, scrofula, rheumatism, or erysipelas, which will often be excited into action by the merest breach of surface, and thus frustate the designs of the surgeon. The same thing will also happen from internal organic disease, from what is called the inflammatory diathesis, arising from over nutrition; from long-protracted disorders of the digestive organs; and above all, from a peculiar and unnatural excitability of the nervous system, induced by debilitating causes, especially by the abuse of spirits, and accompanied as it usually is by a weakly frame of body. It is extraordinary how slight a cause will be sufficient in such cases to excite inflammation of a dangerous character, accompanied with local gangrenous tendency and all the worst symptoms of typhoid fever. To this head may also be re- ferred the important fact noticed by Mr. Travers, viz. that the inflammation and fever which follow injuries and operations, severely affecting the nervous system, and through it the circulation, are generally found to be modified by the preceding state of the system, so as to assume in their progress a low or typhoid character. Inflammations occurring in such states of the body are apt at once to run into suppuration, without previously passing through the adhesive stage. The propriety of paying attention to these circumstances previously to undertaking operations, especially those of convenience, is too obvious to be insisted on.]