316 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. being very much swelled, the ears thickened, and it has advanced to the neck, shoulders, and body, creeping along both arms, and termina- ting at the fingers’ ends ; that which attacks the body often goes along the body to both thighs, down the legs, and terminates at the ends of the toes; and while this is going on, it is as expeditiously cured behind, and the skin peels off the cured parts. However, this is not always the case; it often stops, and where it proceeds so far, it is commonly be- coming milder. This inflammation, when it runs along the skin, has a determined edge, not losing itself gradually and insensibly in the skin beyond, as in the true adhesive, and indeed most of the inflammations; the skin feels as if only a little thickened, and not so pliable; for by passing the finger along the sound skin to the inflamed we feel an evi- dent difference. The colour of the skin is of a darkish red. When it goes deeper than the skin into the cellular membrane it often suppu- rates ; but then I suspect it is not the true erysipelatous, for in such cases it commonly produces mortification in the cells, by which air is let loose: this gives a strange feel, neither of fluctuation nor crepita- tion, and as there are no adhesions the matter finds an easy passage into the common cellular membrane, increasing the same kind of sup- puration wherever it comes; and as mortification is a consequence of these inflammations, putrefaction ensues, and the discharge becomes very offensive. Whether this difference in the effect of the inflamma- tion arises from the nature of the parts, I will not pretend to say. This effect takes place about the buttocks and side of the anus oftener than anywhere else, as indeed does common inflammation and suppuration. This inflammation commonly begins with fever, lowness of spirits, prostration of strength, loss of appetite, &c.; but it commonly does not last long, and the inflammation shall spread even when the fever is gone off, but then it is not so violent. When it produces suppuration in the cellular membrane it is often dangerous, both from the disease itself and the consequences of the matter diffusing itself much further. This effect frequently takes place when this inflammation attacks the buttocks or parts near the anus, and often proves fatal. In such cases, as the sores seldom ulcerate, they should be opened early, for the mat- ter either gets into the cellular membrane from the want of adhesions, or it separates parts that are only attached, as the periosteum from the bone, muscles from muscles, &c., whereas the true suppurative ulcerates briskly, which therefore should not be opened early, but allowed to burst. Many inflammations on the skin which come to suppuration have something of the erysipelatous disposition, for we see them increasing the circle of inflammation, the cuticle separating, matter forming under- neath from the cutis, and the sore healing in the centre; they perhaps