476 TIIE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. and the effect of which is so long continued as to oblige the parts to act for their own relief, produces in some parts, first the adhesive inflam- mation ; and if the cause be increased, or continue still longer, the sup- purative state takes place, and all the other consequences, as ulceration; or if in the other parts, as secreting surfaces, then the suppurative takes place immediately, and if too violent, the adhesive will succeed ; or if parts are very much weakened the ulcerative will immediately succeed the adhesive, and then suppuration will he the consequence. This species of ulceration in general gives considerable pain, which pain is commonly distinguished by the name of soreness; this is the sensation arising from cutting with an instrument, which operation is very similar to ulceration; but this pain does not attend all ulcerations, for there are some of a specific kind which give little or no pain, such as the scrofula; but even in this disease, when the ulceration proceeds pretty fast, it gives often considerable pain ; therefore the pain may be in some degree proportioned to the quickness of its operation. The greatest pain which in general attends this operation arises from those ulcerations which are formed for the purpose of bringing the matter of an abscess to the skin; as also where ulceration begins upon a sur- face, or is increasing a sore. Whether the increase of pain arises from the ulcerative inflammation singly, or from the adhesive and ulcerative going on together in the same point, is not easily determined; but in some cases these three are pretty rapid in their progress, and it is more than probable that the pain arises from all these causes. In those cases where ulceration is employed in separating a dead part, such as sloughing, exfoliation, etc., it is seldom attended with pain ; per- haps it may not be easy to assign a cause for this. I he effects that ulceration has upon the constitution I have men- tioned, with the effects that other local complaints have upon it. It is easy to distinguish between a sore that is ulcerating, and one which is standing still, or granulating. The ulcerating sore is made up of little cavities or hollows, and the edge of the skin is scolloped or notched, is thin, turned a little out, and overhangs more or less the sore. 1 he sore is always foul, being probably composed of parts not completely absorbed, and discharges a thin matter. But when the ulceration stops, the edge of the skin becomes regular, smooth, a little rounded or turned in, and of a purple colour, covered with a semi-trans- parent white.