338 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. The principal instance of supposed increased local heat is in inflam- mation, and we find that external parts inflamed do actually become hotter; but let us see how far the increase goes. From all the obser- vations and experiments I have made, I do not find that a local inflam- mation can increase the local heat above the natural heat of the animal; and when in parts whose natural heat is inferior to that which is at the source of the circulation, it does not rise so high : those animals, too, which appear to have no power, either of increase or decrease in health, naturally appear to be equally deficient in disease, as will be seen in the experiments. I suspect that the blood has an ultimate standard heat in itself when in health, and that nothing can increase that heat but some universal or constitutional affection; and probably the sympathetic fever is such as has no power in this way, and that the whole power of local inflam- mation is only to increase it a little in the part, but that it cannot bring it above the standard heat at the source, nor even up to it in parts that naturally or commonly do not come up to it, as just above mentioned. As inflammation is the principal instance capable of producing local increased heat, I have taken the opportunity of examining inflammations, ; both when spontaneous and in consequence of operations. I have also made several experiments for that purpose, which are similar to opera- tions, and cannot say that I ever saw, from all these experiments and observations, a case where the heat was really so much increased as it appeared to be to the sensations. Experiments on Internal Surfaces. S Experiment I. A man had the operation for the radical cure of the i hydrocele performed at St. George’s Hospital. When I opened the tu- nica vaginalis I immediately introduced the ball of the thermometer into it, and close by the side of the testicle. The mercury rose exactly to 92°. The cavity was filled with lint, dipped in salve, that it might be taken out at will; the next day, when inflammation was come on, the dressings were taken out, and the ball of the thermometer intro- , duced as before, when it arose to 98-5° exactly. Here was an increase of heat of 640, but even this was not equal to that of the blood, probably, at the source of the circulation in the same man. This experiment I have repeated more than once, and with nearly the same event. As the human subject cannot always furnish us with opportunities of ascertaining the fact, and it is often impossible to make experiments