121 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. §.7. Some unconnected Experiments respecting the Blood. The following experiments have rather been imagined than fully ex- ecuted, and the subject is rather broached and touched upon than pro- stances,” says he, “ differ from common matter, in having a power superadded totally different from any other known property of matter, out of which arise various new properties: it cannot arise out of any peculiar modification of matter, but appears to be something superadded Mere composition of matter does not give life, for the dead body has all the composition it ever had This principle exists in animal substances devoid of apparent organization and motion Organization and life do not depend the least on each otheror rather, are not necessarily connected. “ Organization may arise out of living parts, and produce action; but life can never arise out of, or depend on, organization Organization and life are two different things.” This opinion respecting life in its most simple form seems, from the frequency and explicitness with which it is announced, and from its being that which he adopted in his work on Inflammation, to be the opinion which Mr. Hunter considered as most probably true. We do, however, find him here and there propounding views somewhat at variance with the above; but this arose probably from the habit of always keeping his mind open to conviction ; or from an unwillingness to bind himself to any opinions which did not rest on the most unequivocal proofs, rather than from his considering these as affording more satisfactory explanations of the phenomena of life than the former. First, he seems to have had some doubts whether life might not be regarded as an effect of the arrangement of the ultimate molecules of matter, as distinguished from or- ganization of a more apparent kind. “ Life, then, appears to be something superadded to this peculiar modification of matter; or this modification of matter is so arranged, that the principle of life arises out of the arrangement; and this peculiar disposition of parts may be destroyed, and still the modification from which it is called animal matter remain the same. If the latter be the true explanation, this arrangement of parts on which life should depend would not be that position of parts necessary to the formation of a whole part, or an organ, for that is probably a mechanical, or at least an organical arrangement; but just a peculiar arrangement of the most simple particles, giving rise to a principle of preservation the arrangement for preservation, which is life, be- comes the principle of action, not the power of action We have hitherto traced animal matter from its change from common matter to animal matter, the particles of which have possessed such an arrangement as to produce life.” It must, I think, be conceded, that such an arrangement of the ultimate molecules as is above alluded to, may exist even in those forms of animal and vegetable matter which, to our limited powers of observation, appear to possess no traces of organization, as the albumen and yolk of an egg; and further, that those phenomena of life which are percep- tible to our senses, may be necessarily connected with, nay, dependent on, such an ar- rangement. Iiut even this admission only carries us back one step further, namely, to inquire what is the agent or cause, under the influence of which this arrangement of molecules is effected and preserved? Is it one of those agents under the control of which the arrangements and changes in unorganized matter are effected, as attraction, galvanism, &c.; or is it a principle distinct from these? Now it is evident that here our reason is at fault, and will not enable us to reply conclusively to this question, since neither the cause itself, nor the first links in the chain of effects, supposing the above