THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 365 in the constitution are such as do not impede any of the operations of the vital parts. It is allowed to proceed to greater lengths, or greater violence in itself, before the constitution becomes equally hurt by it; and the constitutional symptoms produced at last may be said to arise simply from the violence of the inflammation. But tills will take place more or less according to circumstances: it will be according to the nature of the parts, whether active as muscles, or inactive as tendons; also according to the situation of the same kind of parts, as well as ac- cording to the nature of the constitution. If the constitution is strong and not irritable, the pulse will be as above; but if the constitution is i extremely irritable and weak, as in many women who lead sedentary lives, the pulse may be quick, hard, and small at the commencement of the inflammation, similar to what happens in the inflammation of vital parts. The blood may be sizy, but will be loose and flat on the surface. §. 9. General Rcjlections on the Resolution of Inflammation. I now come to the most difficult part of the subject, for it is much more easy to describe actions than to assign motives" ; and without being able to assign motives, it is impossible to know when or how we may or should check actions, or remove them. I have endeavoured to show that an animal body is susceptible of impression producing action ; that the action, in quantity, is in the compound ratio of the impression, the susceptibility of the part, and the powers of action of the part or whole; and in quality that it is according to the nature of the impressing power and the parts affected. I have also endeavoured to show that impres- sions are capable of producing or increasing natural actions, and are then called stimuli; but that they are likewise capable of producing too much action, as well as depraved, unnatural, or what are commonly, called diseased actions. The first of these I have mentioned by the ge- neral term, irritations; the depraved, &c. come in more properly in treat- ing of peculiar or specific actions. Since then an animal body can be made to increase its natural action, or to act improperly by impression, so we can see no reason, w’hen it is acting too violently, why it should not be restrained by impression ; or when acting improperly, in consequence of these impressions, why it should not be made to act properly again by the same mode, namely, by impressions. a [By “ motives” the author must here he understood to mean all the causes of in- flammation, whether original or modifying.]