132 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. June 24th. Some blood was taken from a woman twenty years of age, and its surface, after coagulation, was covered with an inflamma- tory crust. On the same day some blood was taken from a woman aged tion, and all ecchymoses would form abscesses: but the contrary of all this happens, | for we see the blood everywhere adhere to fresh-cut surfaces without irritating them, on exactly the same principle that cut surfaces themselves adhere to one another. The case of certain fluids, such as bile, urine, &c., not irritating their respective receptacles, 1 is no argumemt against this view of the subject; since there is not one of the secretions of j the animal body which would not irritate a cut surface, and prevent union by the first 1 intention. The scorpion can destroy itself by its own poison, although that substance I is perfectly innocuous in its proper vessels. 16. “A body may be so compounded as to make a perfect whole of itself, having no J parts dissimilar, and having the same properties in a small quantity as in a great.” If, 1 then, the blood be of this kind, motion or division cannot affect it, for all the parts are I similar, and independent of the rest. “ The blood has as much the materia vita: as the 1 solids, which keeps up that harmony between them.” The value of this argument may 9 be estimated by referring to note, p. 116. 17. Blood, when it coagulates, has an unquestionable disposition to assume a peculiar ! arrangement, corresponding to the organization of the most simple membranes; the 1 globules of the blood, that is, arrange themselves into piles or rouleux, so as to consti- 1 tute fibrils, which variously intersect one another, unlike any other thing in nature, j except the chyle, which Hunter supposed to be endowed with life equally with the ' blood. Sir E. Home imagined that the blood, on coagulating, formed a sort of tubular j structure, in consequence of the escape of carbonic acid gas; but this notion has been j completely exploded by more correct observation. The incipient organization of the clot seems entirely to depend on the polarizing forces of the ultimate globules. I appre- j bend also that it would be difficult to deny that the globules themselves may possess f an incipient organization, in as much as they evidently consist of separate parts, have a determinate shape, and are larger than the ova of many animalcules, or even than the j animalcules themselves, of whose organization there can be no doubt. Some have re- j garded these particles as distinct monads, possessing an independent vitality. 18. The last argument for the coagulation of the blood is derived from the pheno- menon of union by the first intention, and the power which the blood has of originating (■ and carrying on organization and action within itself. “ Animals and vegetables have I a power of action within themselves,” by which they are capable “of working them- 9 selves into a form and a higher state of existence. Now the blood seems to possess this I characteristic property of life as well as the solids, for extravasated blood “ forms either I vessels in itself, or vessels shoot out from the original surface of contact into it... .1 have ' reason to believe that the coagulum has the power, under necessary circumstances, to v form vessels in and of itself.... .1 think I have been able to inject what I suspected to %, be the beginning of a vascular formation in a coagulum, when it could not derive any vessels from the surrounding parts.” But it may be asked how could these vessels be injected if there was no connexion ? The decision of this point would afford a true 3 “ crucial instance” decisive of the vitality of the blood; but unfortunately the pre- \ sent state of science does not enable us to come to any satisfactory conclusion in this , matter. I have already intimated (note, p. 43.) that Hunter’s notions on the subject of union by the first intention do not seem supported by sufficient data ; but I must beg leave to refer the reader to part ii. chap. i. for the evidence which at present exists on this subject. There can be little doubt, I think, that effused lymph has a power of self-organization; but I apprehend it is taking too much for granted to suppose that