ON INTROSUSCEPTION. 589 The introsuseeption appeared to have begun at the insertion of the ileum into the colon, and to have carried in the caecum with its appen- dix. The ileum passed on into the colon, till the whole of the ascend- ing colon, th.e'transverse arch and descending colon, were carried into the sigmoid flexure and rectum. The valve of the colon being the lead- ing part, it at last got as low as the anus; and when the person went to stool he only emptied the ileum, for one half of the large intestines being filled up by the other, the ileum alone, which passed through the centre, discharged its contents. Since that time the following case has occurred, which is in many respects similar; the patient was attended by Dr. Ash, and the body in- spected after death by Mr. Home. A. B. aged nine months, a large healthy well-looking child, who, as far as appeared, had never been indisposed from his birth, was seized with a strong spasm, stretching himself out suddenly, without having had any symptoms of previous ailment. Either during the spasm, or immediately after it, he passed a very large loose stool, and after that discharged at intervals small quantities of mucous slime, covered over with little specks of recent fluid blood. Dr. Ash visited him four or five hours after this attack, and found him in all other respects perfectly well; the child sucked heartily, but Dr. Ash, on observing his pulse to be less quick than is usual in children so young, his heat to be rather below the common standard, and, added to these, the small mucous and bloody discharges, suspected that mortification had taken place in the bowels, without being able to guess at the cause, as the child had la- boured under no previous indisposition. In this uncertain situation va- rious means of relief were attempted by purgatives, fomentations, the warm bath, and different kind of clysters, but without any good effect. On his first examination of the abdomen he felt (or thought he felt) a deap-seated fulness or hardness under the left hypochondrium; blisters were applied to the part, and every possible means attempted, without obtaining any evacuation by stool, or any other apparent relief; his strength gradually sunk, and his pulse became gradually weaker, al- though he continued to take the breast eagerly till within a few hours of his death, which happened just sixty hours after the first spasmodic attack. The following were the appearances found in the dead body. Upon opening the abdomen the small intestines, considerably distended with fluid contents, occupied so much of the cavity as to prevent any of the other viscera from being seen, and the mesentery was so much confined that the convolutions of the small intestines could not be readily followed. This confinement was found to arise from an introsuseeption of the ileum