20 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. attention. There is, I think, more to be learned of the use of blood in the animal oeconomy from its coagulation than from its fluidity. The coagulation of the blood, when out of the circulation, would seem to be unconnected with life, yet life could not go on without it; for as all the solid parts of the body are formed from the blood, this could not take place if there did not exist in it the power of coagulating. Many dis- eases exhibit the blood coagulated in the living body, even in the ves- sels themselves, but more frequently when extravasated. Coagulation does not belong to the whole mass of circulating blood, but only to the part I have called coagulating lymph, which during this action com- monly detaches itself from the other part, called the serum®. the phosphates, and supposed to contain the muriates of lime and magnesia, I poured oxalate of ammonia, a white granular precipitate was thrown down, consisting of oxalaet of lime, and magnesia remained in the liquor. Thus the ash resulting from the inci- neration of the albumen yielded carbonate of lime and magnesia, phosphate of lime and magnesia, and traces of iron.” Having established the nature of the immediate principles of the blood, and that they all exist in the serum, with the exception of the fibrin and hsematosine, M. Le Oanu next proceeded to make the complete analysis of this fluid. The process for this purpose, as improved by Dr. O’Shaughnessy, is as follows: “ Divide 1000 parts of the clot into two parts; dry one, and estimate the loss; wash the other, to ascertain the quantity of fibrin. As the water given off from the first exists therein in the state of serum, by subtracting the one proportion of solid matter (which the previous analysis of the serum has shown to be contained in 1000 parts thereof) in the interposed serum, from the weight of the dried clot, the difference affords exactly the weight of the fibrin and colouring-matter together. Subtracting again from this the weight of the fibrin, determined by another experiment, the weight of the colouring-matter is accurately obtained. Incineration, finally, of a given weight of the crassamentum gives the quantity of saline matter."—Journ. de Pharmacie, Sept. 1881. O' Shaughnessy on Cholera, Appendix, No. IV., p. 67. The ultimate constitution of the blood, as compared with gelatine, albumen, and fibrin, is exhibited in the following table : Carbon. l Hydrogen. Oxygen. Nitrogen. Blood.. J Arterial 1 l v enous Macaire and r| 50-2 6*6 26-3 16-3 Marcet. L 55-7 6-4 21-7 16-2 Gelatine 1 Gay Lussac ’ and Thenard. f 47-88 7-92 27-20 16-99 ; Albumen Fibrin.. _ 52-88 1 53-36 7-54 1 702 23-87 19-68 15-70 19-93 | The hsematosine, or colouring-matter, according to Berzelius, has nearly the same composition. Gelatine is not found in the blood, nor in any glandular secretion. It con- tains from three to four per cent. less carbon than albumen, and is regarded by Dr. Prout as less advanced in the scale of animalization. Besides these elementary bodies may also be mentioned sulphur, phosphorus, calcium, sodium, potassium, chlorine, iron, and perhaps magnesium. Traces also of aluminium, copper, and manganese have been said to have been detected.] * [This has been doubted by some physiologists, who imagine that the clot essen- tially consists of the central nuclei of the red globules, deprived of their external invest- ment of colouring-matter. (Prevost and Dumas, Ann. de Chim. el de Phy».,xx iii. 51. Young,