OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. P 2 21 l : small when compared with the trunk : for it is impossible to measure with i any, degree of accuracy the size of branches, and then calculate their i different capacity, in comparison with that of the trunk from whence they are derived; and I think it is reasonable to suppose that, whether an ar- ; tery divides or not, the size must be the same in both, for it is neces- sary that the ultimate effect should be the same. The arteries which are best adapted for this experiment are those of :the placenta and of the testicles, particularly in the bull, 'lhe carotid : arteries in some animals are tolerably well formed for experiments of t this kind; for though these do not give us the exact proportions which • the one end bears to another, yet they plainly demonstrate which end is the largest. The arteries of the placenta evidently increase in size the nearer they a approach to the placenta; and this so very considerably as to require no experiment unless it be intended to ascertain the difference cor- rectly. In the spermatic artery of the bull it is equally evident; but as these arteries are much longer than the distance between their origin and the parts which they are to supply, it may be supposed that this increase is peculiar to them, in order to answer some particular pur- pose. But the carotid arteries in some animals afford sufficient proof !that the arteries in common become larger as they pass on and ramify; •for the carotids may be reckoned ramifying arteries, as they send off branches. The carotid artery of the camel among quadrupeds, and of the swan among birds, are very proper arteries for such experiments. To be as accurate as possible, I injected the arteries of two camels ; and the arteries of a swan ; and, that one end might not be more dis- tended than the other, the artery was well warmed and placed in a 1 perfectly horizontal position. The pipe was fixed into the lower end*, : and the injection made so warm as to keep fluid some time after having been injected : in this position it was allowed to cool. I made sections from each end; and, that they might be perfectly equal, I took a hard piece of wood, an inch thick, and bored a hole through it of the size of the artery, so as to contain a section exactly of that length, having a moveable button fixed at one end, which could be turned upon the hole, or off, at discretion. The artery being introduced through the hole, a projecting part was cut through by a thin knife, in order that the artery might be divided at right angles to itself. After doing this, the artery was withdrawn, and the button was then turned upon the hole, so as • The fixing the pipe into the lower end was rather in favour of increasing the size of this end.