227 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. Since we see the veins assuming the office of arteries in the liver of quadrupeds, birds, amphibia, and fish, and much more so in many of the inferior orders of animals, the motion of whose blood is first derived from the heart, we must suppose that veins have considerable power in carrying on the circulation ; but the resistance being continually re- moved at their termination into the heart, will direct and assist the blood’s motion in that direction, more especially when influenced by the action of the vessels themselves, or any lateral pressure. In those veins which are accompanied by the arteries, the pulsation of the artery assists in propelling the blood towards the heart, more especially where there are two or more attending an artery. When treating of the motion of the blood in the arteries, I observed that its motion was not in a uniform stream, but interrupted, which arose from the heart’s action; but as it receded from that viscus, that its motion gradually became more uniform, till at last it was nearly a continued stream. However it is not certain but an alternate accele- rated motion is continued into the veins immediately from the heart, although it may not be an easy undertaking to ascertain this; for simply observing an accelerated motion in the blood of the veins, more especially the small ones, does not prove that this was an alternate increase im- mediately from the arteries. Every artery has a pulsation in itself, immediately from the heart; but a secondary vein, or one that is a third or fourth in order of size, cannot, because it has more than one cause acting upon it; for such vein is receiving the impulse of the heart at very different times, owing to the larger trunk receiving blood by a number of smaller veins that come from a variety of parts : so that if the trunk was to receive it by starts from the smaller veins, it would only be a tremor or confused mo- tion. This is a reason why this cause could produce none in the se- condary veins'*. The fact is, however, that there is a pulsation in the veins, for when we bleed a patient in the hand or foot we evidently see * [The unintermittent continuity of the venous current arises solely from elasticity; for supposing the whole vascular system to consist of rigid tubes, the impulse would of course be instantaneous in every part of this system. It is not, therefore, the different lengths of the veins, but the great extensibility of these vessels which equalizes the current. This it is which gives to the veins the operation of an air-vessel {note, p. 170.) or compressed spring, the effect of which will be to transform the intermittent impulse of the heart into a continuous force. This may be proved by increasing the tension of the veins in a frog's leg, by partially retarding the circulation, when the pulsation im- mediately becomes visible in the small veins as well as arteries; although the reaction of the former soon equalizes the tension of the whole vessel, and thus prevents the pro- pagation of the impulse to the larger trunks. I think it probable that the pulsation which is sometimes perceived in veins of the Q 2