FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 275 aider&bly in different habits, so the varieties are increased; and like- wise, as many occurrences in life produce the principle of strength or weakness, we have those varieties still more increased, as well as dis- ease. These observations, as heads, I shall treat more fully, but not as my principal subject, attending to them only so far as they are connected with inflammation and may illustrate the varieties in that action. §. 1. Of the different Causes which increase and diminish the susceptibility for Inflammation either in the whole body or in parts. Susceptibility for inflammation may be said to have two causes, the one original, the other acquired. The original constitutes a part of the animal (economy, and is probably inexplicable. Of the acquired it is probable that climate and modes of life may tend considerably either to diminish or increase the susceptibility for inflammation. The influence, however, of climate may not be so great as it com- monly appears to be, for it is generally accompanied by modes of life that are not suited to others; and if we consider how much less per- nicious many climates are now than they were formerly, arising from the mode of living being different, we may be led to allow less influence to climate; and, on the other hand, if we consider how diseases become multiplied and varied in the same climate, we shall see that climate alone is not attended with so much variety as may have been supposed It is observed by some of the ablest physicians of this day that the fever called inflammatory is now not so common in this country as it was for- merly represented to have been; that it is now seldom that in fevers they are obliged to have recourse to the lancet, at least to that excess which is described by authors in former times. They are now more obliged to have recourse to cordials than evacuations, and indeed the disease called the putrid fever and putrid sore throat are but of late date I rememberr when the tat called Fothergill’, acre throat, became he first published upon it and altered the mode of practice. I remember when practitioners uniformly bled in putrid ferers, but sign, of debility and want of success made them alter their practice. Whether the same difference takes place in inflammation I do not know, but I suspect that it does in some degree, for I am inclined to believe that fever and inflammation are very nearly allied, that is that either will be according to the constitution, which is not the case with specific diseases, excepting in their common modes of action which t 2