THE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. 533 Hypertrophy consists in the undue development of parts beyond their normal propor- tions. Like every other change consequent on inflammation, hypertrophy may occur from other causes besides inflammation, because inflammation merely alters the nutrition of parts, which many other causes are equally capable of doing. It is always associated with a state of hyperemy, and most frequently with increased density of structure. When it arises from simply increased functions there seems to be no difference in. the mode of growth from that of ordinary nutrition ; but when it arises from inflammation the augmentation of bulk is effected by interstitial deposition, which afterwards becomes organized. In hypertrophy of the bladder, consequent on diseases of this part, both these causes concur to produce the effect; these distinctions, however, are not always apparent, especially in bones, which often enlarge under circumstances which fall short of inflammation, and yet are more or less connected with it. Exostoses, for example, which are partial hypertrophic developments, are often traceable to mechanical inju- ries; and in the same manner bones are often found to enlarge from constitutional causes, as gout, rheumatism, syphilis, &rc., which in a more active form produce inflam- mation. A chronic ulcer of the surface may occasion an enlargement of the bone be- neath, and a similar effect may be produced by the Barbadoes leg. Atrophy is a vice of nutrition, the very reverse of the former. Both appear to have their analogues in the evolution of tlie feetus, in which there is sometimes an arrest and sometimes a persistence of the formative principle, giving rise to two opposite forms of monstrosity. As in inflammation, therefore, the principle of growth or augmentation of parts, which seems natural to this state, is sometimes persistent beyond the due and regular period, so on tile other hand the principle of absorption, by which this excess of growth is removed, is sometimes continued after the due and regular effect of the resto- ration of the parts to their natural condition has been accomplished. The excess of growth m an inflamed part being useless when the inflammation has subsided, and perhaps an incumbrance to the due exercise of its functions, is removed on the same principle as many parts, having a temporary use in foetal life, or parts in the adult which have be- come disorganized and unfit for their office, are got rid of; for in general it may be ob- served that the use of a part, and consequently its necessity, are the only protection which it has against the operation of this law. Accordingly, it is observed that those parts which have only a temporary use in the economy, as the testicles, mammas, ova- ries, &c., are most liable to the effect of wasting, in consequence of inflammatory action. The secondary effects of inflammation, or those which regard the organical constitu- tion of parts, are coextensive with the whole range of pathology, and cannot be entered into in this place. The most general division of these formations is into the analogous, or those which have some analogue in the healthy body, and the heterologous, or those which have no resemblance to any healthy elementary tissue, as schirrus, melanosis, tubercle, &c., and which therefore are to be regarded in the highest sense as morbid productions. The former again have been subdivided by Ileusinger into new or analo- gous formations, or accidental, parasitical, and adventitious tissues anormally developed in situations where they did not previously exist, as serous cysts, fatty tumours, &c.; and analogous transformations, or the conversion of existing parts into structures of a different kind from that which they originally possessed, as when serous and fibrous membranes are converted into bone, muscle into fat, &c. The former are nenrlv as ex- tensive as the natural elementary tissues of the body, and, for the most part, are inju- rious. The latter are less numerous, being sometimes characterized by an elevation of tie natural organization of the part, to answer some new and useful object in the eco- nomy, and sometimes, by a degradation of the original tissue, subversive of its peculiar function. ' In the opinion of many modern physiologists, the whole of these anormal productions are refemble to an inflammatory cause; and undoubtedly such a cause, or some external injury almost equivalent to it, may often be detected in many individual cases; but still