194 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. Indeed the circulation in the foetus is a proof of it, for in the child there would otherwise be two pulsations instead of one. This alternate motion of the heart is quicker in some classes of ani- mals than others, in some being extremely quick, in others very slow. In all the more inferior orders of animals I believe it is the slowest; and this may probably be in some degree in proportion to their imperfection. It is also slower probably in each class in proportion to the size, and we know it is slower in each species in some degree in proportion to the size, although not nearly exactly so. The pulse is also found to be quicker in the young than in the old of each species, in greater propor- tion than what we find arising from size only. Thus the motion of the heart of a caterpillar is extremely slow, and also of a snail. The motion of the heart in fish is not frequent; and we know' it is extremely slow in the amphibia; but in those possessed of tw'o ventricles, as in birds and quadrupeds, the motion of this viscus is much quicker: in them, too, it differs very much, in proportion to their size, although not nearly in the same proportion. Thus, a horse’s pulse is about thirty-six in a minute, while a man’s is about seventy. In the same species it is nearly of equal quickness; for in a man three feet high the pulse was eighty, w’hile a man above eight feet high had a pulse about seventy. §.6. General Observations on Blood-vessels. By the vessels in an animal are commonly understood those canals which carry the juices of the body, called the blood of the animal, to and from the heart, for the immediate purposes of the animal ceconomy; and in those animals where no heart is to be found, yet vessels are found, though their uses are not so demonstrable; and in some of a still more inferior order, where no vessels can be demonstrated, yet, from analogy, canals may be supposed to exist, and those should still be called ves- sels*. * Of this I am not certain. I have an idea that some animals absorb their nourish- ment, even without action, somewhat similar to a sponge, but dispose of it immediately by converting it into their own increase1. 1 [Ellis, the celebrated zoophytologist and a contemporary of Hunter, believed that he saw motions or actions in the mouths of the sponge analogous to those in the mouths of polypes; but it is now generally believed that he was deceived and that the ingestive orifices are passive, and that so far as they are concerned the nourishment is absorbed in the sponge, as Hunter states, without action. By what mechanism within the nu- trient canals of the sponge the currents which perpetually traverse them are produced has never been determined : analogy points to the vibratile action of extremely minute