329 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. more of the healthy red when near to the source of the circulation, than when far from it. This increase of red appears to arise from two causes; can be no doubt of the general analogy which exists between the reparation of the ac- cidental lesions of the frame, and the ordinary nutrition of the body, and also that the functions of secretion, excretion, absorption, sensibility, and the due venalization of the blood, are all more or less modified and affected by the process of inflammation ; so far, therefore, as these functions are dependent on or liable to be affected by the nervous system in a state of health, so far it seems reasonable to conclude that they are similarly affected in the process of inflammation. 1. The circulation and nutrition of parts are greatly impaired by a paralysis of the nerves, while, from the best observation of phy- siologists, it appears that deficiency or imperfect development of the normal organization is exactly correspondent to the deficiency or imperfect development of the corresponding portions of the spinal marrow. 2. The experiments of physiologists have demonstrated that the functions of secretion and excretion, and the general offices of a part, are greatly dependent on the integrity of the nervous system. The urine is not secreted after decapitation, nor the gastric juice after the division of the eighth pair of nerves. 3. The nutrition of the body is affected by various influences of the mind, which can only be supposed to operate through the medium of the nerves. 4. Intense pain often ushers in the inflammatory attack, and precedes every other apparent symptom. So ! a^so hysterical and sympathetic pains, obviously depending on some distant source, often excite inflammation, while the operation of cold can only be explained on the same principle. From facts of this kind some have inferred the invariable precedence of some ! disturbance of the nervous system. 5. Metastatic inflammations are plainly referrible to the same cause, unless they are to be explained on the humoral pathology. Thus also 11 the appearances of local inflammation, especially of the exanthematous eruptions, are : often preceded by constitutional rigors and fever, which plainly evince an antecedent i | disturbance of the nervous system. 6. Hushing, the contraction of the extreme capil- laries from fear and other causes, and the effects produced by the sudden crushing of the nervous centres, are proofs of the influence which the nervous system has over the circulation. 7. Division of the fifth pair of nerves gives rise to inflammation and conse- quent destruction of the globe of the eye. Similar effects have been known to ensue from compression of the fifth pair within the cranium (Med. Gaz., i. 531.), or by division of the nerve of a horse’s foot above the fetlock joint {op. cil., xvi. 140.) ; and occasion- ally in the human subject, when the principal nerves of the limb have been divided by a gunshot wound, inflammation and mortification have taken place. The interesting facts communicated on this subject by Mr. Earle (Med. Chir. Tr., vii. 173.) render it probable that these effects depend on the impairment of vitality consequent on the de- ficient innervation, which renders parts incapable of supporting stimuli, which in a healthy state would not be injurious. The sloughing of the nates in injuries of the spinal ; marrow, and of frost-bitten parts when hastily restored to life, strongly corroborate this opinion. 8. Direct irritation of the adjacent nerves has sometimes been found to excite inflammation at their extremities. (Phil. Trans. 1814, p. 583; Med. Gaz., i. 531 ; Med. Chir. Trans., vii. 191.) 9. The generally acknowledged fact that the condition of the nervous system has great effect in determining the course of common inflammation. . roni facts> therefore, it is clear that the nervous system exercises an important i influence in inflammation, although from the illustrations which have been given, it is i eTua*’> clear that this influence is rather of a negative than a positive kind. In fact J 7C 1)1 l^lc nerves in inflammation appears to hold precisely the same relation to i *118 act‘°“ t'liU d°es lo the other organic functions of the body. It is regulative, hut | out essential.]