Tilt ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 364 great lengths, and which are truly scrofulous, producing the hectic, for in them we have the hectic pulse and not the inflammatory. If the stomach is inflamed, the patient feels an oppression and dejec- tion through all the stages of the inflammation; simple animal life seems to be hurt and lessened, just as sensation is lessened when the brain is injured; the pulse is generally low and quick, the pain is obtuse, strong, and oppressing, such as a patient can hardly bear”. If the intestines are much affected, the same symptoms take place, especially il the inflammation be in the upper part of the canal; but if it is the colon only which is affected the patient is more roused, and the pulse is fuller than when the stomach only is inflamed. If it be the uterus, the pulse is extremely quick and low. If it be a testicle that is inflamed, the pain is depressing, the pulse is quick but not strong. \V hen the inflammation is either in the intestines, testicle, or uterus, the stomach generally sympathizes with them, which will produce or increase the symptoms peculiar to the stomach. In inflammation of the brain, I believe, the pulse varies more than in inflammations of any other part; and perhaps we are led to judge of inflammation there more from other symptoms than the pulse. I believe the pulse is sometimes quick, slow, depressed, full, &c., and which may accord with the other sym- ptoms, such as delirium, stupor, &c. It is to be observed, when the attack upon these organs (which are Principally connected with life) proves fatal, that the effects of the in- flammation upon the constitution run through all the stages with more rapidity than when it happens in other parts ; so that at its very begin- ning it has the same effect upon the constitution which is only produced by the second stage of fatal inflammation in other parts. Debility begins a cry early, because the inflammation itself is interfering immediately with the actions of life ; and also in such parts universal sympathy takes place more readily, because the connexion of these parts by sympathy is more immediate; and if the sympathy is similar to the action, then the whole is in some degree in the same action. If the inflammation comes on in a part not very essential to life, and with such 'violence as to affect the actions of life or to produce universal sympathy, the pulse is fuller and stronger than common; the blood is pushed further into the extreme arteries than when the inflammation is in a vital part; the patient, after many occasional rigors, is at first rather roused, because the actions of the part arc roused ; and the effects a [It may be asked, if inflammation consists of an increase of animal life, or of a dls- ] p isition to act with all the powers of which the machine is possessed, how comes it to pass that inflammation of the stomach produces such depressing effects?]