331 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. vacation, and where the cells are not united by it". Thus the circum- ference of such swellings is a little cedematous ; but the whole of the serum, if there be a depending part, will move thither, and distend it considerably, as in the foot in consequence of an inflammation in the leg. But in most cases there is a continued extravasation of serum, long after the extravasation of the coagulating lymph is at an end; so that depending parts will continue cedematous while the inflammation is re- solving, or while suppuration, or even healing is going on. The whole swelling looks like a part of the body only a little changed, without any appearance of containing extraneous matter; and indeed it is simply , I T .. _ 1 J 1 f°rmed by an extravasation of fluids without their having undergone any visible or material change, except coagulation. [Pain.] As few uncommon operations can go on in an animal body without affecting the sensations, and as the first principle of sensation arises from some uncommon action, or alteration being made in the na- tural position or arrangement of the parts, wre should naturally suppose i that the sensation would be in some degree according to those effects, and the sensibility of the parts. One can easily form an idea of an al- ' teration in the structure of parts giving sensation which may even be carried to pain, but that the simple action of parts should produce sen- sations and even violent pain is but little known, or at least has been, ! I believe, but little attended to; all these effects, I think, may justly be included under the term spasm*; at least we are led by analogy to sup- pose that they belong to that class. By spasm I should understand a contraction of a muscle without the leading and natural causes. Thus, the contraction of a muscle of the leg, called the cramp, gives considerable pain, often violent; as also the tetanus ; and when in a less degree, as in the twinkling of the eyelid, it gives only sensation, whereas if the muscles were to act by the will ino sensation would be produced. We find that those sensations are more or less acute, according to the quickness or slowness of tho progress of these causes ; from whence we are naturally led to assign two causes, which must always attend ; one another; for when both do not take place at the same time, the mind * How far a nerve from a part, or how far the materia vit* of a part, can act so as ! t0iC0nvey ^nsation I do not know; but we all know that an involuntary action of a Voliintnrxr ntuccln />»• < _ .• « . »•> uiwiuiiiaiy uu iuii Ul voluntary muscle, or the spontaneous action of an involuntary muscle, will produce it. j * [This accords with the opinion of Dr. B. C. Babington, who has attempted to prove | that the fibrin and ^rum are always effused in the same relative proportions to each I °ther'. 0baervation> however, and the account which has been formerly given (see note, j l'”* i-‘‘s-) ol the gradual transformation of the secretions of an inflamed part, are onnosed j to this notion.—Med. Chir. Trans., xvi. 311.] 1