CONTENTS. Xll Observations respecting Union by the First Intention.—4. Of Scab- bing.—5. Accidents attended with Death in a superficial Part. page238 Chap. II. Fundamental Principles op Inflammation. 1. Of the different Causes which increase and diminish the Suscepti- bility for Inflammation, either in the whole Body or in Parts.—2. Effects of Strength or Weakness of Constitution and of Parts while under Inflammation.—3. Of Parts of the Body most susceptible of the three different Inflammations to be treated of.—4. Of the two Parts that have the Orders of Inflammation respecting Priority in- verted.—5. The Natural Cause of the Adhesive Inflammation being limited.—6. Of Inflammation—its stages.—7. Of the different De- grees and different Kinds of Inflammation page 261 Chap. III. The Adhesive Inflammation. 1. Action of the Vessels in Inflammation.—2. Of the Colour, Swelling, and Pain of Inflamed Parts.—3. The Heat of Parts in Inflammation. —4. Of the Production of Cold in Inflammation.—5. Of the Time the Adhesive Inflammation commences after its Cause, and in what Cases and Parts it is imperfect in its Consequences.—6. Of the Uni- ting Medium in Inflammation.—7. The State of the Blood and of the Puise in Inflammation.—8. The Effects of Inflammation on the Con- stitution according to the Structure of the Parts, Situation of similar Structures, and whether Vital or not Vital.—9. General Reflections on the Resolution of Inflammation.—10. Of the Methods of Resolu- tion by constitutional means.—11. The Use of Medicines internally and of local Applications in Inflammation.—12. General Observa- tions on Repulsion, Sympathy, Derivation, Revulsion, and Transla- tion.—13. Of the different Forms in which Medicines are applied, and the Subsiding of Inflammation.—14. Of the Use of the Adhe- sive Inflammation page 320 Chap. IV. Of the Suppurative Inflammation. 1. The Symptoms of the Suppurative Inflammation.—2. Of the Treat- ment necessary in Inflammation when Suppuration must take place.