462 TIIE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. I therefore cull it ulcerative. In other cases no ulcer is produced, al- though whole parts are removed, and for this I have not been able to find a term; but both may be denominated progressive absorption. This process of the removal of a whole solid part of the body, or that power which the animal ceconomy has of taking part of itself into the circulation by means of the absorbing vessels whenever it is necessary, is a fact that has not in the least been attended to, nor was it even sup- posed, and having now been noticed, I mean to give a general idea of it. I may just be allowed once more to observe, that the oil or fat of animals, and the earth of bones, have always been considered as subject to absorption ; and some other parts of the body being liable to wasting, have been supposed to suffer this by absorption ; but that any solid part should totally be absorbed is a new doctrine. This use of the absorb- ents I have long been able to demonstrate, and the first hints I received of it were in the waste of the sockets of the teeth, as also in the fangs of the shedding teeth. It may be difficult at first to conceive how a part of the body can be removed by itself, but it is just as difficult to conceive how a body can form itself, which we see daily taking place ; they are both equally facts, and the knowledge of their mode of action would answer perhaps vert* little purpose ; but this I may assert, that whenever any solid part of our bodies undergoes a diminution, or is broken in upon, in consequence of any disease, it is the absorbing system which does it. When it becomes necessary that some whole living part should be removed, it is evident that nature, in order to effect this, must not only confer a new activity on the absorbents, but must throw the part to be absorbed into such a state as to yield to tins operation. This is the only animal power capable of producing such effects, and like all other operations of the machine, arises from a stimulus or an irritation, all other methods of destruction being either mechanical or chemical. The first by cutting instruments, as knives, saws, etc.; the second by caustics, metallic salts, etc. The process of ulceration is of the same general nature in all cases, but some of the causes and effects are very different from one another. The knowledge of the use of this system is but of late date, and the knowledge of its different modes of action is still later. Physiologists have laboured to account for its modes of action, and the principle of capillary tubes was at first the most general idea, because it was a fa- miliar one. But this is too confined a principle of an animal machine ; nor will it account for every kind of absorption. Capillary tubes can only attract fluids; but as these inquirers found that solids were often absorbed, such as scirrhous tumours, coagulated blood, the earth of