ON THE CURE OF T1IE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 617 down to the toes, and attended with most excruciating pain. He gave the following account of his case. Fifteen months ago he wore for two months together a pair of tight leather breeches, which made his legs swell, and become so painful that he was obliged to leave them off; after which time the swelling in the leg subsided, and he suffered no further inconvenience. About a month after this, on his return from a journey on foot of ten miles, on a very hot day, he felt uneasiness in the hams of both legs, but went to bed in good health. In the course of the night lie had a very profuse sweat, and the next day he discovered a small swelling in each ham ; that on the left side continued gradually to in- crease, and had a pulsation in it, which was sensible to the touch for many months, but afterwards was not to be distinguished ; the swell- ing diffused itself over the limb till it arrived at its present size. Upon examining the other ham, I found an aneurismal tumour about the size of a nutmeg, which he said had remained stationary from the time of its first appearance. The left leg seemed to be too much diseased to give the smallest hopes of saving it; the limb was therefore amputated. Upon ex- amining the parts in the amputated limb, the aneurismal sac in the ham was found to have been burst, and eleven pounds and a half of coagulated blood had been diffused among the muscles, which were in a state ap- proaching to mortification. The stump healed kindly, and he continued well for three months, without any apparent enlargement of the aneu- rism in the right ham ; but at the end of this time it began to increase in size, and one day, after a violent exertion on his crutches, he had considerable pain in it, with an evident increase of the swelling, which now stretched both the ham strings ; there was also a diffused swelling extending over the joint of the knee. From the history of the aneu- rism in the other leg, there was reason to expect that this was now burst, and would go on in exactly the same way; it was therefore de- termined to perform the operation for the aneurism immediately accord- ing to Mr. Hunter’s method : this was done on the loth of November, 1795. The artery alone was included in a single ligature, and the skin with the other parts brought together, and retained by adhesive pla- ster. For about two hours after he was put to bed he complained of cold- ness in the foot, but on covering it with flannel it felt as warm as the leg, which was of the natural heat of the body. On the second day the swelling of the leg was a good deal abated, and the tumour itself softer. On the third day the swelling of the leg was entirely gone, and the tumour more diminished. On the sixth day the dressings were removed, and the wound had healed by the first intention, except an inch at the lower part, ■where