OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 183 It gives to the blood its motion in most animals, and in all it sends the i blood to the organs of respiration : in the flying insect it sends the blood both to those organs and to the body at large; but in fish to those or- gans only, the body at large in them having no heart. In the amphi- bia there is an attempt towards a heart both for the lungs and body, but not two distinct hearts. In the bird and quadruped there is a di- stinct heart for each. We may say, therefore, that there is one heart for respiration and another for the life, nourishment, &c. of the animal: these constitute the two ventricles. As the extent of these two circulations is different, the two hearts, or, in other words, the two ventricles, are suited in their strength to the different extents of each circulation, as was observed above in treat- ing of the strength of the heart. How far the heart is alone capable of carrying on the circulation is not to be ascertained; for although the circulation is carried on in para- lytic cases, yet this does not exclude the involuntary nervous influence of the part: this, however, varies very much in different classes of ani- mals ; for I have already observed, concerning the structure of the arte- ries, that their muscularity assisted in the circulation, and that in pro- portion as the vessels in general were endowed with this power the heart was weaker. I believe that the quadruped has the strongest heart of any class of animals; and I believe that their vessels have the least muscular power, more especially near the heart. The immediate use of the heart in an animal would seem to be ge- nerally subject to as little variety as that of any other viscus ; but per- haps the heart is subject to more variety than any other part in its con- struction. I have observed that it is either single, double, or mixed; that it is single without an auricle, single with one auricle, single with two auricles, double with a union of the twro, making the mixed, and double with two auricles. With respect to its use, it is, in the most simple kind of single heart, to propel the blood through the body, im- mediately from the veins; which blood is to receive its purification in this passage, wiien the lungs are disposed throughout the body, as in the flying insect. In another single heart it is intended to mix both the purified and the adulterated blood, and of course to throw it out to the body and lungs equally in this mixed state, as in the lob- ster. In the single heart, with an auricle, its use is, in one class, to throw the blood throughout the body, after being purified, as in the snail; and in another single kind, with an auricle, it is to receive the blood from the body, and send it to the lungs only, as in all fish. In the single heart with two auricles it is formed to receive the blood both purified and unpurified, and dispose of it to both body and lungs in that