525 THE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. pressure is the greatest, which will he at the most depending part of the abscess; so that its upper part will readily heal to a small point, and he reduced to the state of a fistula. But it is not always possible to open at the most depending part of an abscess, and when possible often very improper. When impossible, perhaps nothing more can be done than to evacuate the matter as often as necessary, and by gentle pres- sure keep the sides of the sinus together, to allow their growing into one another; but the situation will not in all cases allow this. The inexpediency of opening at the most depending part of an abscess will in general arise from the distance between the matter and the skin at this part; for if the abscess is pretty deeply seated, and points at a part superior to that of its seat, which it sometimes does from the parts above, being such as more easily give way, in such a case it will be proper to open it wiiere it points. For instance, if an abscess is formed in the centre of the breast, and opens at the upper part, (which is often the case,) it would be improper to cut through the lower half to allow the matter to pass that way, although it may make its way there afterwards, from the pressure of the matter, as wras just nowr observed ; which I have seen happen more than once. If an abscess forms on the upper part of the foot, it is improper to open through the sole of the foot to get at the most depending part of the abscess, for besides cutting such a depth of sound parts, which is an objection, it would be destroying a great many useful parts. It would also be impossible to keep it open, the sound parts having such a dispo- sition to heal; and it w'ould be contradictory to my first position, which wras to have parts as thin as possible before they Eire opened, in order to destroy the healing disposition there*. As in such cases the place where the matter threatens to open a pas- sage for itself is w’here the future opening is most likely to be, and as the situation is disadvantageous to the healing of the seat of the abscess, it will be more necessary to let it first open of itself (because the abscess just under the skin will be increased in width, as was observed), and then to dilate it eis freely as may be thought necessary; for by allowing abscesses to open of themselves the opening has a less disposition to heal than if it had been opened early by art; therefore [the former method] is more desirable in such situations. * One would imagine that this last caution was hardly necessary, but I once saw a case where it was advised, upon the general principles of opening in the most depend- ing part.