29 general principles of the blood. extent in which it has been taken, I think that rest has greater influ- ence in the change than any other circumstance whatever. But though rest seems greatly to dispose the blood to coagulation, it is the opera- tion of rest alone, without exposure, which we are to consider; as otherwise we shall be apt to confound it with the two foregoing causes, viz. cold, and the contact of aira. verts the blood to a chocolate brown colour, and destroys its coagulating power. Sul- phuretted hydrogen has the same effect, and renders it viscid and greenish. Carbonic oxide gives it a brownish tint. (Christison on Poisons, p. 691 el seg.) When the expe- riment of breathing pure oxygen is kept up for some time, or until the animal dies, the blood in the veins is found to present the same florid hue as that in the arteries, and to coagulate with remarkable rapidity. (Broughton in Land. Quart. Journ. of Sc. 1830.) For the effect of other gases on the blood the reader is referred to the able work of Dr. Christison above cited, to the Recherches Chim.-Phys. of Nysten, and to Thenard’s Sys. de Chim., iii. 513.] * [The question which will here be considered is rest or stagnation of the blood within the vessels or living textures of the body. In the preceding note I have adverted to the experiments of Hewson as to the effect of rest combined with the insufflation of air into the living vessels. Mr. Thaekrali (op. cit., p. 76.) repeated and varied these experiments in the following manner. By means of double ligatures he secured the jugular veins of two rabbits and two dogs, and examined the state of the blood at different intervals. In the veins of the two rabbits the blood was perfectly fluid after 45 minutes ; and in the veins of the two dogs it was perfectly fluid after 60 minutes in one case and 20 minutes in the other. Sir Astley Cooper performed similar experiments on dogs, and found the blood perfectly fluid after three hours; although by varying the form of the experiment and allowing the blood to flow into a portion of vessel unequivocally dead, the blood was found to be perfectly coagulated in 15 minutes. The blood in the heart and vessels of struck cattle is commonly fluid for half an hour or upwards after the apparent death of the animal; although if it be effused from the vessels during any part of this interval, it speedily coagulates. In the same manner extensive extravasations of blood into the cellular mem- brane or into the tunica vaginalis testis remain fluid for weeks or even months, notwith- standing that the same blood when let out readily coagulates. Thus also Mr. Hunter found the blood in the stomach and intestines of a leech still fluid ten weeks after it had been sucked. It must be evident, therefore, that some other principle is concerned in keeping the blood fluid in these cases besides motion, which principle must previously be ascertained before we can determine anything concerning the effects which are due to mere rest. This principle I believe to be the vitality of the vessels, which maintains the blood in a fluid state, and counteracts its coagulating tendency in exact proportion to the energy of the system at the time, or the tonic powers of the vessels. In proof of this I shall offer the following arguments in corroboration of those which have preceded. 1st, It is well known that struck cattle retain a residual vitality in their muscles for some hours after apparent death ; consequently it is not surprising, upon the hypothesis, that the blood should preserve a fluid state in virtue of a like residual vitality in the vessels. 2nd, If a leech die soon after it has fallen off, the blood in its body will be found coa- gulated. 3rd, In asphyxia, syncope, and other cases in which the system is depressed, the blood coagulates rapidly as contrasted with those cases in which the energies of the system are in full vigour, as in inflammatory fever. 5th, Upon the same principle, the