OF PUS. 442 even extraneous animal matter would lie in abscesses for a considerable time before it was even dissolved. They might have observed in ab- scesses arising either from violence or from a species of erysipelatous inflammation, that there were often sloughs of the cellular membrane, and that those sloughs would come away like wet tow, and therefore were not dissolved into pus. They might also have observed in abscesses of tendinous parts, as about the ancle, &c., that often a tendon became dead and sloughed away, and that these sores do not heal till such parts have sloughed, and this is often not accomplished for months, and yet all this time those sloughs are not formed into pus. They might have also known or observed that pieces of dead bone shall lie soaking in mat- ter for many months, and yet not dissolve into pus; and although bones in such situations shall lose considerably of their substance (which might by the ignorant be supposed to have been dissolved into pus) yet that waste can be accounted for and proved on the principle of absorption; for they always lose on that surface where the continuity is broken off, and which is only a continuation of the separating process*. To see how far the idea was just that dead animal matter was dissolved by pus, I put it to the trial of experiment, because I could put a piece of dead animal matter of a given weight into an abscess, and which could at stated times be weighed. To make it still more satisfactory, a simi- lar piece was put into water, kept to nearly the same heat: they both lost in weight, but that in the abscess most, and there was also a differ- ence in the manner, for that in the water became soonest putrid. But these experimentshaving been made as far back as the year 1757,1 shall not rely on their accuracy, but state them as made by my brother-in-law Mr. Home, and as given in his Dissertation on the Properties of Pus, p. 32, under the idea that pus had a corroding quality. “ As pus has been supposed to have a corroding quality,” I may add even upon the living solids, “ I made the following experiments to as- certain the truth or fallacy of such an assertion, and found it to be void of foundation, and to have arisen from the inaccuracy of observers hav- ing prevented them from seeing the distinctions between pus in a pure state, and when mixed with other substances. “ I made a comparative trial upon matter contained in an abscess, and on pus and animal jelly out of the body. The matter and jelly were in equal quantities, and contained in glass vessels, kept nearly in the tem- perature of the human body. To make the comparative trials as fair as possible a portion of muscle, weighing exactly one drachm, was immersed * It may be supposed that bones are not capable of being dissolved into pus ; but we know that bone has animal substance in it, and we also know that this animal substance is capable of being dissolved into chyle.