448 OF PUS. larger, and the fluid appeared to be thickened by a solution of sal am- moniac. Sixteen hours : The globules seemed to form themselves into masses, but were transparent. 1 wenty hours : The globules were double the size of those first observed at ten hours, and gave the appearance of true pus, in a diluted state; the fluid was coagulated by a solution of sal ammoniac, the globules at the same time remaining perfectly distinct, so that I should consider this as true pus. Twenty-two hours: No change appeared to have taken place. Thirty-two hours: The fluid was con- siderably thicker in consistence, the number of globules being very much increased; but in no other respect, that I could observe, did it differ from that formed twenty hours after the application of the blister.” 1 o ascertain the progress of suppuration on canals or secreting sur- faces, I ha\ e often examined the matter on a bougie that had been in- troduced into the urethra, and found it to be formed earlier than either of the times before mentioned: Mr. Home’s experiment makes it five hours ; but we often find a gonorrhoea coming on at once, not having in the least been preceded by a leading discharge. Since that period experiments have been made on pus from different kinds of sores, with an intention to ascertain the nature of the sore by the result of such analysis. That sores give very different kinds of pus is evident to the naked eye; and that the different parts of which the hlood is composed will come away in different proportions, we can make no doubt; and we find that whatever is in solution in the blood comes ■away more in one land of pus than another, which arc all so many de- viations from true pus; we may also observe, that such kinds of pus change, after being secreted, much sooner than true pus, which will be observed by and by. From all this I should be apt to conceive that such experiments will throw little light on the specific nature of the disease, which is the thing wanted. From such experiments we may find out that pus from a venereal bubo in its height of malady, or that from a cancer, is bad matter, but cannot ascertain the difference between those two matters and all others, nor the specific difference between the two. The smallpox, although as malignant a disease as any, and one which produces a pus as replete with poisonous particles as any, yet gives a true pus, when not of the confluent kind, which disposition is not small- pox. The reason why it is good pus is because its inflammation is of the true suppurative kind; and the reason why it is of the true suppu- rative kind is because the parts have the power of curing themselves, just as much as in any accident which happens to such a constitution; but this is not the case with either the venereal disease or the cancer; from the moment these set out, their dispositions tend to become worse and worse; but the venereal bubo, if mercury is given so as to affect it.