GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 39 ยง.3. Of the Serum. The serum is the second part of which the whole mass of blood ap- pears to be composed, or is one of those substances into which the has been said in the preceding note respecting the superabundance of fibrin in in- flammatory blood, as well as from the circumstance that the first portions of blood are generally slowest in coagulating, by which a greater time is allowed for the red globules to subside. It is not difficult, however, to prove that an increased dispo- sition to separate must also exist in the red globules, and aid in producing the buffy orust. Take, for example, blood from a patient labouring under acute rheumatism, and set it aside; in less than thirty seconds the surface will be covered with a bluish trans- parent lymph, although no traces of coagulation will be apparent for several minutes afterwards. Thus Hewson found that of two portions of the same blood, one afforded a buffy crust, and the other none, although the latter remained fluid full ten minutes after the buffy coat had begun to be formed on the former (Exp. Enq., p. 90). I think, therefore, it must be apparent that the buffy coat of blood undoubtedly depends on these three circumstances acting conjointly, viz. the increased quantity of fibrin, the slowness of the coagulation, and the increased tendency to separation. Dr. Davy (Edinb. Med. Surg. Journ., xxix.) and Dr. Stoker (Pathol. Observ., p. 37.) have irrefragably proved that mere slowness of coagulation is not alone a sufficient cause to account for this phenomenon. The latter has furnished twenty-seven experiments, in fifteen of which buff was formed, and in the other twelve it was not. In the former coagulation was never delayed beyond fourteen minutes, and in all but three it took place in less than five minutes. Out of the latter there were four instances in which coagulation was delayed eight, and three in which it did not take place in less than from twenty to forty minutes; the real cause, therefore, of the buffiness in the former in- stances was certainly not the slowness of coagulation: yet slowness of coagulation has a very marked effect in increasing the quantity of buff; for if blood be drawn from a small orifice into a shallow vessel, the quantity of buff will be infinitely less than if it is drawn from a large orifice into a deep vessel; the difference in these cases depending in great measure on the more rapid manner in which the blood coagulates in one case than it does in the other. For the same reason Dr. Babington (Med.-Chir. Tr., xvi. 298.) found that when blood was drawn into two vessels, one empty and the other half- filled with olive oil, the buffy crust which formed under the oil was twice or thrice as thick as that which formed in the empty jar. Nay, the same author has even gone so far as to affirm that healthy blood placed under these conditions will sometimes exhibit a buffy surface. I may also advert to one other circumstance, which is, that the quantity of buff will be greatly influenced by the shape of the vessel into which the blood is received, for it must be evident that the space left by the gravitation of the red particles will bear a proportion to the whole perpendicular depth of the blood, and consequently be much greater in one case than in another, although the same blood be employed. This cir- cumstance is frequently overlooked in judging of the degree of inflammation from the appearance of the blood previously abstracted. lo account for the buffy coat, it has been imagined that the fibrin of the blood be- comes specifically lighter, or the red globules specifically heavier than usual; but nothing has been offered in the shape of proof for either of these statements. Hey attributed the sizy crust to a more intimate admixture of the constituent parts of the blood; and