17 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF TIIE BLOOD. latea, more of its parts are thus exposed; in this process the blood se- parates into two distinct substances, a coagulating part, and another which separates from it and remains fluid; but the coagulum entangles the red part, and this alone shows the blood to be formed of these com- ponent parts. The parts of the blood so separated have been named according to their apparent properties; the one, the coagulable lymph; the other, the serum ; and the red part has been called the red globules ; but upon a more intimate knowledge of the different parts of this fluid, we shall find that those terms are not expressive of all their properties. The term coagulable lymph0 is not expressive of this property, as one which is inherent in the lymph itself, for many substances are capable of being coagulated, though not spontaneously, yet by chemical means. For instance, heat coagulates the farinaceous part of vegetables, and thus forms paste, and also mucus. Spirits of wine coagulates many animal substances; acid coagulates milk, &c.; the term, therefore, to be used respecting this property of the blood should be such as expresses its inherent power of self-coagulation : perhaps coagulating might be better applied to what is called coagulable lymph, and the epithet coagu- lable might be reserved for those fluids which require a chemical process to produce that effect. Of this kind is the serum, for I have discovered this fluid to be composed of two parts, which is ascertained by means of the different causes of coagulation. To discover all the various pro- perties and uses of the component parts of the blood in the machine may be impossible; and to determine whether they will act, or are em- ployed conjunctively to produce the effect, is not easy; but there are some properties discoverable which would incline us to believe that particular parts of the blood are employed to'compose particular solid parts, which are found to possess properties similar to different parts of the blood b. ยง.2. Of Coagulation, and its Effects. As coagulation is the first change which the blood undergoes when out of the vessels, and as it even coagulates while in them, under cer- * [Gluten, fibre of the blood, and fibrin are terms which have also been applied to this principle of the blood. The latter term is now most frequently adopted, from its being in some degree expressive of the fibrous or half-organized texture which this sub- stance exhibits when the serum is expressed from it. The whole coagulum, consisting of the above-named substance, interposed serum, and red globules, has been variously designated by different writers as cruor, hepar sanguineum, placenta, insula, gluten, clot, and crassamentum.'] [ The probability of the opinion expressed in the text will be adverted to in a fu- ture part of the work. In the present note I propose briefly to point out the principal vol. nr, r