405 OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. flammation, but that it must be a violence followed by a prevention of the parts performing their cure in a more simple way, viz. a restoration of the structure, so as [to be able] to carry on the animal functions of the part, or, in other words, a prevention of union by the first or second intention; or [a violence] attended with this circumstance, viz. that the parts are kept a sufficient time in that state into which they were put by the violence ; or, what is something similar to this, a violence attended with death in a part, such as in many bruises, mortifications, sloughs in consequence of caustics, &c., which, when separated, have exposed in- ternal surfaces*. Various have been the opinions on this subject; and as every violence committed from without, under the circumstances before mentioned, is exposed more or less to the surrounding air, the applications of this matter to internal surfaces has generally been assigned as a cause of this inflammation ; but air certainly has not the least effect upon those parts, for a stimulus would arise from a wound were it even contained in a vacuum0. Nor does the air get to the parts that form circumscribed abscesses so as to be a cause of their formation, and yet they as rea- dily suppurate in consequence of inflammation as exposed surfaces. Further, in many cases of the emphysema, where the air is diffused over the whole body, (and this air not the purest,) we have no such effect, excepting there is produced an exposure or imperfection of some internal surface for this air to make its escape by, and then this part inflames. Nay, as a stronger proof, and of the same kind with the former, that it is not the admission of air which makes parts fall into inflammation, we find that the cells in the soft parts of birds, and many of the cells and canals of the bones of the same tribe of animals, which communicate with the lungs f, and at till times have more or less air in them, never inflame; but if these cells are exposed in an unnatural way, * But here we may just remark, that the first processes towards suppuration in cases of mortification, where a separation must take place prior to suppuration, are different from the foregoing, because the living surface is to separate from it the dead parts, and therefore another action of the living powers is required, which is what I call ulcera- tion. And by the phenomena on this occasion, it would appear that Nature can carry on two processes at one and the same time; for while the separation is carried on by the absorbents, the arteries are forming themselves for suppuration: so that at the same time the part is going through these two very different species of inflammation, t Vide Observations on certain Parts of the Animal (Economy, Vol. IV. p. 176. a [The admission of fresh air to recent wounds and exposed suppurating surfaces undoubtedly excites pain and eventually an accession of inflammation; which effects were found by I)r. Beddoes to be considerably increased by the use of pure oxygen, and proportionably diminished by the employment of the inert gases, nitrogen, carbonic acid gas, and hydrogen.]