530 THE TREATMENT OK ABSCESSES. as to the proper seat of this inflammation, some considering it to be the serous membrane itself, and others the subserouscellular tissue, the proper serous membrane beingrcgard- ed, like the epidermis, as extra-vascular. There is, however, no doubt of the former be- coming visibly vascular in some stages of its progress, of the vessels thus formed tieing in communication with those which are generated in the effused lymph, and of all the other changes of inflammation being produced without visible vascularity, as in the arach- noid membrane ; so that upon the whole there seems no reason to doubt that the serous membranes are themselves inflamed, especially as subserous infiltrations, whether of se- rum, lymph, or pus, are to be regarded as unfrequent occurrences. After removing a portion of the pleura pulmonalis, Dr. Thomson could not discover any visible cicatrix; troin which, as well as from the frequent generation of this tissue in new situations, there is no reason to doubt that this membrane is readily reproduced. The synovial and bursal structures resemble the serous in most leading respects; but the change of structure into a pulpy greyish substance, to which the former are subject, and the tendency to fungoid growths, to which the bursae are liable, have not been observed in the serous membranes, although both are extremely prone to cartilaginous and ossific transformations, the result of chronic inflammation ; neither are they equally liable to the production of loose cartilages and small ovoid bodies in the form of melon seeds, nor equally exposed to metastatic inflammations. Fibrous tissue. Like other dense and unvascular parts, the fibrous tissue exhibits a comparative backwardness to inflammation, the processes of reparation are slowly effected, and ulceration, mortification, and even suppuration are seldom primarily induced. The differing degrees of vascularity, however, in different parts of this system occasion a great difference in this respect. In general there is an abundant effusion of roagulable lymph, which often under such circumstances becomes ossified ; but, upon the whole, the reproductive powers of this system are not considerable, so that tendons which have sloughed are not renewed, and ruptures of the capsular ligament, in cases of dislocation, have remained unrepaired for several years. This system is peculiarly obnoxious to inflammation from constitutional causes, as gout, rheumatism, and syphilis, in which cases there is often a metastasis of the disease from one part to another in succession, attended with severe nocturnal exacerbations. The confinement of matter in some of these cases is often productive of great constitutional irritaion. Cartilaginous system. It has been doubted whether true cartilage is ever subject to inflammation, principally because it has never been observed to become vascular; but as the phenomena of normal ossification leave no doubt as to the vascularity of this sub- stance in a state of health, there seems no just reason for doubting its capability to in- flame, especially as in similar unvascular parts, as the cornea, the arachnoid membrane, and even the teeth, there is no question on this subject. Neither is there any question respecting the vascularity of the fibro-cartilages, although these structures nre traceable by insensible degrees into true cartilage, from which indeed they are not essentially dif- ferent. Still, however, there are some peculiarities respecting the pathology of cartilages which are not easily explained: as, for example, the extreme dissimilarity which they exhibit in regard to the two forms of ulcerative and progressive absorption; the former of which takes place with the greatest readiness, and the latter with the utmost difficulty. Ulceration of the harder cartilages is sometimes unaccompanied with suppuration, it is generally, however, attended with a high degree of irritative fever, as compared with the actual extent of the disease, and often with partial exfoliations. The reproductive powers of cartilage are very limited, and it is observable that this substance invariably unites by osseous union. Osseous system. The peculiarities of ostitis are principally referriblc to the peculiar hard texture of bone, which does not admit of that rapid extension of vascularity which the reparative processes of inflammation seem to require : consequently nil the processes