GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 77 and the air that was drawn in by the under side passed out by the nozzle. ! By this means I could, by fixing the nozzle into the trachea, draw the air out of the lungs into the upper chamber of the bellows, and at the same time draw fresh air into the lower chamber: on emptying these cavities of their air, the pure air in the lower chamber passed into the lungs, and that which had been just taken from the lungs into the upper i chamber passed into the open air alternately. The action of these bel- 1 lows, though double, is exactly as simple as breathing itself; and they (appear to me to be superior to any invention made since for the same purpose3. I fixed the nozzle of these bellows into the trachea of a dog, and immediately began the artificial breathing. I then removed r the sternum and cartilages, and opened the pericardium. While I con- t tinued the artificial breathing, I observed that the blood in the pulmo- nary veins, coming from the lungs, the left auricle, the aorta, &c., was florid or dark just as I threw air or not into the lungs. I cut off a piece of the lungs, and found that the colour of the blood which came from the wound corresponded with the above effects. When I threw air into the lungs, so as to render the blood florid in the pul- monary veins, two kinds of blood issued from the wound; and when I left off blowing, the whole blood which passed out by the wound was of the dark colour. If the air is confined in the lungs of a quadruped, it s soon loses its power over the blood, which remains dark, or has the appearance of becoming dark, because dark-coloured blood is thrown in and it undergoes no change ; but if the same experiment is made on an amphibious animal it is a considerable time before the whole blood be- comes dark, because in such animals the lungs are a reservoir of air, which of course continues its influence over the blood for a longer time. * [The principal inconvenience of this bellows consists in the extreme difficulty of re- gulating the artificial respiration. The researches of Magendie and Leroy have fully established the fact of the great liability of the air-cells to become ruptured when the quantity of air impelled is either too great or too rapidly effected, in consequence of which the pulmonary tissue is rendered emphysematous, and the chances of recovery much diminished; and to so great a degree are the lungs exposed to this danger, that it has even been doubted whether the proportion of recoveries from asphyxia has not been considerably reduced since the introduction of this means of resuscitation. To obviate this inconvenience, M. Leroy has recommended the adaptation of an arc of degrees to the handles of Hunter’s bellows, graduated in such a manner as at once to show the proportions requisite for the different ages of life, to which are added move- able pipes to correspond, so as only to allow of the escape of the air in such quantities and in such periods of time as shall closely represent natural respiration. There can be no doubt that this is a very great improvement upon the old bellows, and ought uni- versally to be adopted in all institutions for the recovery of drowned persons. (Mugendie's Journ. dt Phijs., vii. viii. xi.)]