323 TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. number to view. I froze the ear of a rabbit and thawed it again : this excited a considerable inflammation, an increased heat, and a consider- able thickening of the part. This rabbit was killed when the ear was in the height of inflammation, and the head being injected, the two ears were removed and dried [see PI. XX.]. The uninflamed ear dried clear and transparent, the vessels were distinctly seen ramifying through the substance; but the inflamed ear dried thicker and more opake, and its arteries were considerably larger. In inflammation of the eye, which is commonly of the tunica conjunc- tiva, the progress of inflammation may in part be accurately observed, although not so progressively as in a wound. The contrast between the red vessel and the white of the eye, under this coat, is very conspi- cuous ; and although we do not sec the vessels enlarging in this coat, ' >Tet we see the progress they have made : the white appears as if it was becoming more vascular, and these vessels larger, till at last the whole tunica conjunctiva shall appear as one mass of blood, looking more like extravasated blood than a congeries of vessels, although I believe it is . commonly the last. From these circumstances it must appear that a much larger quan- jt tity of blood passes through parts when inflamed than when in a natu- i ral state®, which is according to the common rules of the animal ceco- i nomy; for, whenever a part has more to do than simply to support itself, t the blood is there collected in larger quantity. This we find to take place universally in those parts whose powers are called up to action by 801116 necessary operation to be performed, whether natural or diseased. As the vessels become larger, and the part becomes more of the colour of the blood, it is to be supposed there is more blood in the part; and as the true inflammatory colour is scarlet, or that colour which the blood has when in the arteries, one would from hence conclude either that the arteries were principally dilated, or at least, if the veins are equally dis- tended, that the blood undergoes no change in such inflammation in its passage from the arteries into the veins, which I think is most probably the case; aud this may arise from the quickness of its passage through those vessels. When inflammation takes place in parts that have a degree of trans- parency, that transparency is lessened. This is, probably, best seen in membranes, such as those membranes which line cavities, or cover bodies m thosi cavities, such as the pia mater, where, in a natural state, we may observe the blood-vessels to be very distinct. But when we see [Recent microscopical investigations have demonstrated the error of this opinion. . as will be shown more fully presently.] Y 2