OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 190 The nearest dependence of the heart is upon the lungs, and probably they have the same upon the heart. The two together become, in their respecting the portion of that system under the controul of which they have supposed the heart to be placed. The most ancient opinion was, that the heart, like the other muscles of the body, was under the dominion of the brain; but the well-known facts, that acephalous foetuses continue to live and grow, that the circulation may be kept up by the aid of artificial respiration for several hours after decapitation, and that in some reptiles the whole brain may be removed in successive layers without affecting the heart’s action, have caused this opinion to be now generally abandoned. According to a second opinion, which originated with Legallois, the actions of the heart depend on the brain and spinal chord, but with this difference in respect of com- mon muscles, namely, “ that the heart derives its power from all parts of the spinal chord, without exception; whilst on the other hand, each part of the body besides derives its power only from a single part of the chord,—that, namely, from which it receives its nerves.” This conclusion was drawn from experiments on frogs, in which the brain and spinal marrow were wholly destroyed by means of a wire introduced through an opening into the cranium. In these experiments the heart's action was entirely sus- pended for a few seconds, and though it recovered itself again after a short period, yet the rhythm was so altered, and the action so feeble, that no haemorrhage ensued on de- capitation, or amputation of the thighs, from which he hastily inferred, that this resumed action essentially differed from what occurs naturally, and in fact resembled the action of muscles which are irritated after death. If a part only of the brain or spinal marrow was destroyed or broken down, then the action of the heart was only enfeebled, and that in exact proportion to the amount of destruction. Dr. Wilson Philip repeated and varied these experiments of Legallois, and ascertained that the spinal marrow may be cautiously removed without affecting the action of the heart; but that if this destruction be effected suddenly, as by crushing, then the action of the heart and vessels is immediately enfeebled, or else totally destroyed. He also found that the heart was highly susceptible of being affected by substances applied to the brain or spinal marrow, such as alcohol, opium, &c. j and hence concluded, that though there is no necessary connexion in the way of cause and effect between the in- fluence of the nervous centres and the motions of the heart, yet that an intimate rela- tion exists between them. Dr. Marshall Hall has however shown, that similar effects are produced on the heart when other parts of the body are subjected to similar treat- ment ; that alcohol, or infusion of opium, affects the heart equally when applied to the external skin, as when applied to the brain, and that the heart’s action is equally ar- rested by crushing the stomach, or even the extremities, as by crushing the brain or spinal marrow ; and he therefore objects to Dr. W. Philip’s conclusions. Examples, in- deed, of this kind occur continually to the surgeon, in which the effect of a severe crushing injury to an extremity sinks the powers of the circulation beyond recovery, although amputation of the same part might have been performed with impunity. M. Flourens admits that the spino-cerebral system, especially that part of it which administers to respiration, is necessary, to give energy and duration to the circulation; but he does not believe that this function is essentially and immediately dependent on the influence of these nerves, from the impossibility of reconciling such an opinion with the fact of the circulation going on in decapitated and acephalous animals. The want, then, of such a connexion between the spino-cerebral system and heart as is found to subsist between the former and the system of voluntary muscles, has led to the adoption, by some physiologists, of a third opinion, namely, that the actions of