221 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. ries in the brain should be less than anywhere else ; for we may suppose that the motion is considerably lost by the blood coming into an elastic canal of the same diameter with that through which it passed before it came into the bony canal. If, then, this motion is lost, and the quan- tity of blood is really lessened in a given time, its motion must be more regular, and the pulsation less. In some animals the carotid artery is found to divide and subdivide, forming a plexus, and the branches unite again before it goes to the brain. This is called rete mirabile, and in animals which have it will certainly break the force of the blood’s motion; but since it is not uni- versal, some peculiar purpose must be answered by it. It is not in the horse and ass, for instance; but it is in the lion. Where the vessels anastomose, there is also a considerable retardation to the blood’s mo- tion, and they are found to anastomose a good deal on the pia mater before they enter the brain, but I believe not within its substance. §.10. Of Veins. Tire vessels * carrying the blood from any part of the body towards the heart are called the veins : they are more passive than the arteries, and seem to be, from their beginning to their termination in tire heart, little more than conductors of the blood to the heart, that it may receive its salutary influence from the lungs. However, this is not unversally the case, for the vena portae would seem to assume the office of an ar- tery in the liver, and therefore becomes an active part; and we have many veins formed into plexuses, so as to answer some purpose, not at all subservient to the circulation; but still, in this respect, they are not to be reckoned active. They differ from the arteries in many of their properties, although in some they are very similar. They do not compose so uniform or regular a system of vessels as the arteries, either in their form or use, being subject to considerable variety in their uses (which are, however, passive, not active), and often an- swering, from their construction, collateral purposes. The coats of the veins, upon the whole, are not so thick as those of the arteries, but differ materially in different situations of the body. 'Tlius, they become thinner and thinner, in proportion to their size, the nearer to the heart; however, this is not equally so through the whole venal system, but principally in the depending veins, as those of the ex- * A vein is commonly a canal, especially that which carries red blood; but in many animals it is entirely cellular; yet I use the word as a general term when applied to the blood.