GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 21 coats of au artery, to appearance becoming fibrous, and even forming laminae, and indeed appears to be very much the same kind of substance with an artery, which gives us a clear idea how a membrane may be formed, and probably can be varied, according to the impression made on it by the surrounding parts. This is one reason why the lymph, which has the strongest disposition for coagulation, is the toughest, as it parts with more of its serum. The lymph is transparent, but whether tinged as the serum is found to be we can hardly say, as it is seldom possible to catch it in a fluid state free from red globules, and never from serum, which has itself a tinge. When out of the body in a dish, where it is long in coagulating and the red globules sink fast, we find it trans- parent ; but during coagulation it becomes more muddy, till at last it is opake, but with a tinge of colour. On being steeped in water it is often rendered very white, which would not probably be the case if it had a tinge-of its own, independent of the serum. Blood usually requires a considerable time for its complete coagula- tion, or rather contraction ; for if allowed to stand some days, the co- agulated part becomes less and less, as more and more of the serum is squeezed out, which cannot arise from the serum being lighter and is- suing out spontaneously, for without some expelling force it would be retained mechanically by the capillary attraction, as hi a sponge. The blood which is longest in coagulating coagulates most strongly, and pro- duces the most complete separation of its parts. In such instances, as the coagulating lymph continues longer fluid, it allows the red globules more time to subside, and the serum to be more squeezed out from the crassamentum. When the coagulation is slow, and of that kind which will be firm when completed, we may skim off the fluid coagulating lymph, free from the red globules ; and the part so taken will coagulate immediately, while that in the cup remains fluid some time longer®. Many causes have been assigned for the coagulation of the lymph, which appear to me to be ill founded. It frequently happens that when a [This is not merely the coagulating lymph or fibrin, but the fibrin united to the serum, constituting the liquor sanguinis of Dr. Babington (See note, p. 21.) In itself, and in its mode of coagulation, it does not seem to differ from ordinary blood, except in containing no red globules. When transferred to a globular vessel, it separates into two parts, viz. serum and crassamentum, the coagulation taking place uniformly throughout the mass; that is, every part of the coagulum exhibits the same density, and consequently every part contains the same quantity of fibrin. Hence fibrin cannot exist in a fluid state and be lighter or heuvier than the serum; for if lighter, the upper surface of the clot would be more dense than the lower, and vice versli (see note, p. 22). Hence also the high probability that the liquor sanguinis constitutes a real homogeneous compound, and not a mere mixture of elements. According to Thackrah, more fibrin was found at the lower third of the crassamentum than at the upper,