GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 53 floating in it. The water from the abdomen of a lady, which was a little wheyish, coagulated before it gave out its air; but the coagulum was not one half of its quantity. In another case of ascites, the \\ ater coagulated wholly, although not to a firm coagulum. Water drawn from the abdomen of a gentleman, which was pretty clear, when held over a lamp to coagulate, became at first wheyish. The liquor amnii has but very little coagulable matter in it. In coagulating all the above hinds of serum by heat, and taking the incoagulable parts and putting extract of Goulard to them, they coagulated immediatelya. Whether this fluid is of the same specific gravity with the other I do not know; for though when part of it is coagulated by the extract of lead it is the heaviest, yet as it is united with the lead, it may acquire its additional weight from this union. The use of the serum is probably to keep suspended and undissolved the red globules; for we find it in largest quantity when these globules are most abundant. It is also intended to suspend and dissolve any foreign substances in the blood, whether they are of use to the body or otherwise, acting upon them as a common solvent. Thus we see in a jaundiced person the serum is yellower than common. When a person has taken rhubarb the same thing happens. It is probably the solvent of all our secretions. I conceive it to be unnecessary to say how much water enters into the composition of the blood. In order to constitute a perfect body or compound it is necessary that all its parts should be in due proportion. But as the blood in many animals is made up of four distinct parts, viz. the coagulating lymph, serum, which we find is composed of two parts, and the red globules, each must have its due quantity of water when in a perfect state; and 1 think it is probable that the lymph and red part cannot have more water than a certain quantity, but that the serum may be diluted with any proportion of it. Yet, as serum, it can have a cer- tain proportion only; and indeed this was in some degree proved by the experiment of mixing some water with serum, and then coagulating the whole with heat: the water separated and did not make a part of the coagulum. Some of the juices of a living animal, whether circulating or out of circulation, as those which lubricate surfaces, are in a volatile state while the animal is alive; for when the scarf-skin is taken off, the part soon dries; and if the skin is removed from a new-killed animal, it immediately dries; or if a cavity is opened, the surface of the cavity * [These are merely examples of the precipitation of albumen or mucus by means of Goulard's extract in variable proportions.]