GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 27 sufficient proof that it was not cold which made the blood coagu- late*. From the above observations and experiments, it must appear that cold, simply, has no influence whatever upon the coagulation of the blood®. And in most of the cases in which the blood is observed to coagulate, the air is commonly in contact with it: this was next presumed to be the cause of its coagulation f. But the air has really no more effect than any other extraneous body, in contact with the blood, that is capable of making an impression upon it; for the blood coagulates more readily in a vacuum than in the open air : nor will either of these supposed causes assist in explaining why it is not found coagulated after many kinds of death, nor in the menstrual discharge. Neither will they account for the very speedy coagulation of the blood which usually takes place in all the vessels after death, or when it has been extravasated into cavities, or cellular membranes, where no air has ever been admittedb. * Hewson on the Blood, p. 21. f Ibid., p. 23. a [Sir C. Scudamore found that cold retarded coagulation nearly in the same pro- portion as heat accelerated it. Blood which began to concrete in 4£ minutes in an atmosphere of 53°, underwent a similar change in 2£ minutes at 98°; and blood which coagulated in minutes at 98°, became solid in 1 minute at 120°: but blood which co- agulated firmly in 5 minutes at 60°, preserved its fluidity for 20 minutes at 40°, and required upwards of a full hour for complete coagulation. Hewson had observed that if blood was kept at a temperature of 38° for 24 hours it became thick and viscid, but did not coagulate upon the return of warmth; which fact is capable of generalization, for whatever keeps the blood fluid for a considerable length of time has a tendency to deprive it of the full power of coagulation afterwards. Thackrah asserts, that blood which has once become frozen does not coagulate in any case, but only forms a grumous mass in which there is no separation of parts. (Op. cit., p. 07.) A very high tempe- rature, as 140°—150°, according to Prater, has the same effect, that is, it renders the blood incoagulable; and, what is very remarkable, dilution with water does not restore this property in one case more than in the other (on the Blood, p. 13.). It is sufficient at present to notice these facts, which have been considered by some to bear importantly on the question of the vitality of the blood. 1 may add, however, what is worthy of remark, as bearing on the same question, viz. that low temperatures, (insufficient to prevent coagulation altogether), equally diminish the contractility of the clot and of muscular fibre, while the effect of high temperatures is the very reverse. Thus animals of the order Batrachia immediately perish and become rigid by being immersed in water at a temperature of 108° to 120°. The muscular structures of warm-blooded animals likewise become more or less contracted by all temperatures above blood-heat.] k [Hewson merely contended that air promoted coagulation, not that air was essen- tial to the process. It must be confessed, however, that his expressions are sometimes equivocal, as at p. 123, Vol. I., and in some other parts of his Inquiry. Scudamore took two portions of blood from a man slightly indisposed, and placed one of them under the receiver of an air-pump and allowed the other to be exposed in the open apartment. The former cooled in five minutes from 84° to 75°; the latter from