346 the adhesive inflammation. I have known people who had affections of the stomach and bowels say that they had plainly the feeling of cold in their bellies. I knew a gentleman who told me that often when he threw the wind off his sto- mach it felt cold to his mouth and even to his hands, which was by much the best guide respecting sensation. A lady, near seventy years of age, has a violent cough, which often makes her puke, and what comes off her stomach feels like ice to the mouth. Affections of the mind also produce constitutional coldness ; but they are such affections as the stomach sympathizes with, producing sickness, shuddering, &c. A disagreeable idea or sight will sometimes give a quick sensation of sickness, and the skin shall sympathize with the stomach. It shall appear to begin, as it were, in the mouth or throat, as if some- thing there had a tendency to come up; the muscles of the neck shall become convulsed, and the head shall be violently shaken ; from thence a disagreeable feeling shall spread over the whole body, passing directly down the back to the feet, commonly expressed by saying, “ one’s flesh creeps; and hence the words shudder and horror express mental as well as bodily affections. Another action shall be joined with the cold, viz. the action of sweating, so that a cold sweat shall take place over the whole body. 1 his cold shall be partial, for under many diseases a partial cold sweat will sometimes come on, while other parts remain to- lerably temperate. §. 5. Of the time the Adhesive Inflammation commences after its cause ; and in what cases and parts it is imperfect in its consequences. It will be often impossible to determine the distance of time between the impression which becomes the cause of inflammation and the action itself; which will depend upon two circumstances, viz. the nature of the exciting cause, and the susceptibility for such action in the parts. In the exposure of internal surfaces, inflammation is perhaps sooner brought on than in most others; for the incitement is immediate, and there is no remission in the cause itself. In specific diseases the time is perhaps more regular, each having n determined interval between the application of the exciting cause and the appearance of the disease, al- though even in some of these there is a vast difference in the time after contamination ; but in those arising spontaneously it must be uncertain. \ et in some cases it can be pretty well ascertained, supposing sensation the first effect of the inflammatory impression ; and in such instances