427 OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. peculiarity in the constitution, or a part, which may be continued after the sympathetic action is lost, and which may again reflect back upon the part its reluctance to heal. This may be exemplified by the affec- tions of scrofula, and even cancer, arising in consequence of injury Rigors are commonly the first symptom of a constitutional affection ; but a rigor is productive of other effects or symptoms, as it were natu- rally arising out of the rigor; and tliese are according to the nature of the constitution. In a strong constitution a hot period succeeds, as if the constitution was roused to action to resist debility, which terminates the rigor; and this hot fit terminates in perspiration, which is the com- plete action of the disease, restoring tranquillity, which is the cure, and the best termination that can happen where a rigor takes place, for it shows that the constitution has the power of terminating the effects of the cause. I believe, however, that in most cases it shows a degree of weakness, especially if easily excited, or a peculiarity of constitution. But as the cause is still continuing in cases of rigor arising from local irritation, these rigors may recur; and if they recur, it shows a consti- tution ready to be affected; however, if they do recur at stated periods, it still shows the constitution to be able to resist the effects of the dis- ease. Further, if the constitution is weak a rigor comes on, and no hot fit succeeds, but it runs directly into the sweat, which will probably be cold and clammy. If it is a constitution of another kind the hot fit will continue, having only a kind of abatement; but no sweat or perfect in- termission will take place, and therefore the whole action has not taken place. Rigors from local irritation, attended with the full action, and at re- * I believe that local specific irritations do not produce much variety in the consti- tution ; for I am persuaded that specific local irritations are not capable of altering that constitution, similar to the plague and other contagious diseases. I believe that morbid poisons do not act by any peculiar inode of action in the part, so as to afTect the consti- tution in any peculiar way, if we except such as are capable of continuing so long as to weaken that constitution, as, for instance, the lues, when of long standing; but even this will be similar to every other lasting disease, for at first it certainly does not affect the constitution so as to alter the disposition of a wound made upon another part. 1 am not so certain respecting natural poisons. The Hennas, poisoned arrow, [ Uj,as tieutc,] etc. would seem to produce a peculiar constitutional affection from a local cause, for we can hardly suppose absorption to have taken place in so short a time*. [“ ibis may be exemplified by affection or injury, scrofula, even cancer, &c.”— Original text.] b [This question, which has been made the subject of a great deal of interesting dis- cussion and experiment of late years, must still be considered as undecided, although upon the whole, the balance still inclines to the doctrine as here laid down by the au- thor. The late ingenious researches by Mr. Morgan and Dr. Addison on this subject strongly confirm this view.] J