GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 92 their temporary lungs of a florid colour, while it is dark in the arteries; so that it has become of a dark colour, in its passage to and from the heart; but in the more perfect animals the blood, I believe, becomes darker and darker as it proceeds from the heart, till it returns to the heart again ; but this change is very little in the arterial system, more especially in vessels near the heart, as the coronary arteries. The change of colour is more rapid in the veins, but it is not equally made through the whole venous system ; for it will be produced more quickly in the lower parts of the lower extremities than in the veins near the heart; it begins, most probably, where the motion first has a tendency to be- come languid ; and this usually takes place in the very small arteries; for in bleeding in the foot, or on the back of the hand, I have observed, in general, that the blood is of a more florid red than in the bend of the arma. " [In order to complete the general view of the changes which the blood undergoes during the course of its circulation, I propose very briefly to advert to the subject of respiration, relying upon my reader’s indulgence for the imperfection of a sketch which is not capable of being well comprised within the limits of a note. Mr. Hunter, although no chemist, had sufficient sagacity to perceive the insufficiency of all existing theories of respiration, and therefore confined himself to the bare state- ment of facts, leaving it to future observation to discover the clue by which these might be explained. He admits that the arterialization of the blood, so far at least as change of colour is concerned, is wholly irrespective of vital causes; but he seems to have re- garded the renewal of the vitality of the blood as dependent on some inexplicable effect of the vital air, from which the idea of any chemical changes is wholly excluded. Un- doubtedly we shall not err in regarding change of colour as merely expressive of some other more important changes effected by respiration ; but then these changes are essen- tially chemical, and it is on these alone that the vitalizing properties of the blood de- pend. 1 shall also premise that the principal seat of these changes is in the pulmonary and systemic capillaries; for although, under certain circumstances, a similar change may undoubtedly occur, as well in the great vessels as in extravasated blood, yet the change is generally instantaneous in the natural course of the circulation ; that is, the blood enters the capillaries of the lungs black, and is immediately converted to red; and on the other hand, it is scarlet in the smallest arterioles of the body, but black in the minutest radicles of the veins. These systems antagonize each other, so that whatever the blood acquires in one it loses in the other, and vice versd. If venous blood be exposed to atmospheric air, its colour is soon converted from black into scarlet; a portion of oxygen is absorbed, and an equal proportion of carbonic acid is disengaged. If, instead of atmospheric air, pure oxygen is employed, these effects are more quickly and more characteristically developed; but they are not produced by any gases (with the exception perhaps of carburetted hydrogen,) which have not oxygen as an element. Such are the simple phenomena of arterialization, which equally take place in and out of the body, although not with equal rapidity. Thus, Allen and Pepys found that a man of average size breathed about nineteen times in a minute, and took in about 154 cubic inches of air at each inspiration. About 26’6 cubic inches, at 50°, of oxygen were calculated to be withdrawn from the atmo- sphere per minute, and the same quantity of carbonic acid to be emitted from the lungs,