OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 559 balls were found at first and cut out immediately, which were similar to balls passing through and through ; and in these the same inflamma- tion came on the cut wounds that came on the wounds made by the en- trance of the ball. ยง.3. Penetrating Tf'ounds of the Abdomen. Wounds leading into the different cavities of the body arc very com- mon in the army, and in a great measure peculiar to war. They are mostly gun-shot wounds, hut not always, some being made with sharp- pointed weapons, as swords, bayonets, &c.; they are pretty similar, in whatever way they are made, and I have given them a name expressive of the nature of the wound. I shall not take notice of any of this kind but those which penetrate into the larger cavities, as the abdomen, thorax, and skull; but those into the skull are made most commonly by halls, shells, &c. These wounds become more or less dangerous according to the mis- chief done to the contents of the cavity into which they penetrate. These wounds may be distinguished according as they are simply pe- netrating, without extending to the contained parts, or as they affect these parts, and the event of these two kinds of wounds is very dif- ferent ; for in the first little danger is to be expected if properly treated, but in the second the success will be very uncertain, for very often nothing can be done for the patient under such wounds, and very often a good deal of art can be made use of with advantage. Wounds of the parietes of the abdomen, not immediately inflicted on such a viscus as has the power of containing other matter, will in ge- neral do well, let the instrument that made the wound be what it will*. There will be a great difference, however, should that instrument be a ball passing with great velocity, for in this case a slough wall be pro- duced ; but if it should pass with little velocity, then there will be less sloughing, and the parts will in some degree heal by the first intention, similar to those made by a cutting instrument. But although the ball has passed with such velocity as to produce a slough, yet that wound shall do well, for the adhesive inflammation will take place on the peri- toneum all round the w'ound, which will exclude the general cavity from taking part in the inflammation, although the ball has not only pene- trated but has w'ounded parts which are not immediately essential to life, such as the epiploon, mesentery, &c., and perhaps gone quite through * What 1 mean by a containing viscus is a viscus that contanis some foreign matter, as the stomach, bladder, ureters, gall-bladder, &c., to which I may add blood-vessels.