288 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. pins, etc. owe their want of power in producing suppuration, not en- tirely to situation but in some degree to the nature of the substance, metals perhaps not having the power of irritation beyond the adhesive, for when the adhesive has taken place the part appears to be satisfied. This appears also to be the case with the introduction of glass, even in superficial parts : a piece of glass shall enter the skin just deep enough to bury itself; inflammation shall come on; the wound in the skin, if brought together, shall heal by the first intention; and the inflammation shall not exceed the adhesive, but rather degenerate into the disposition for forming a sac, by which means a sac is formed round the glass, and no disturbance is given to the irritability of the parts. This was the case with Mr. Knight, apothecary, who had a piece of glass three fourths of an inch long run into the palm of his hand, and remained there for ten weeks, without any further inconvenience than retarding the motion of the hand, and sometimes giving a pricking pain, when the sac was made to press upon the points of the glass ; this insensibility, however, arises from a sac being formed With such properties, but it cannot be assigned as a cause in the case of bodies moving as pins. Whether this fact, of external parts assuming the suppurative in- flammation more readily than the internal, arises from unknown pro- perties in the parts themselves, or from circumstances which attend situation, such as heat, cold, etc., is not easily determined ; but whatever be the cause, the effects are good, as many situations of inflammation, viz. the internal, would prove dangerous if the parts were always, or often to suppurate ; of two evils, nature chooses the least; while, on the other hand, when near the external surface, it becomes the least evil to produce suppuration, in order to get rid of the extraneous matter. Ac- cidents may be assigned as one cause of this frequency upon the exter- nal surfaces, but the cases of pins above mentioned (which is accident), show, that even when it arises from accident, the parts near the exter- nal surface much more readily suppurate; and in all cases arising from the constitution, or spontaneous, the external inflammations exceed the internal in number, violence, and extent. ยง.4. Of the two Parts that have the Orders of Inflammation respecting Priority inverted. I formerly divided the surfaces capable of taking on inflammation into two; the first of these was the cellular membrane in general, together with the whole circumscribed cavities ; the second was all the outlets in the body, commonly called mucous membranes; for instance, all the