634 SIR E. home’s observations on ent parts of her head, from one of which a horn grew. The other wat a nobleman*, who had a small tnmour, about the size of a nut, grow- ing upon the parts covering the two last or lowermost vertebra of the back. It continued for ten years without undergoing any apparent change ; but afterwards enlarged in size, and a horny excrescence grew out from it. In the History of the Royal Society of Medicine* there is an account of a woman, ninety-seven years old, who had several tumours on her head, which had been fourteen years in growing to the state they were in at that time; she had also a horn which had originated from a simi- lar tumour. The horn was very moveable, being attached to the scalp, without any adhesion to the skull. It was sawn off, but grew again ; and, although the operation was repeated several times, the horn always returned. Bartholine, in his Epistles J, takes notice of a woman who had a tu- mour under the scalp, covering the temporal muscle. This gradually enlarged, and a horn grew from it, which had become twelve inches long in the year 1646, the time he saw it. He gives us a representa- tion of it, which bears a very accurate resemblance to that which I have mentioned to have seen in November 1790. No tumour or swelling is expressed in the figure; but the horn is coming directly out from the surface of the skin. In the Natural History of Cheshire §, a woman is mentioned to have lived in the year 1668, who had a tumour or wen upon her head for thirty-two years, which afterwards enlarged, and two horns grew out of it: she was then seventy-two years old. There is a horny excrescence in the British Museum, which is eleven inches long, and two inches and a half in circumference at the base, or thickest part. The following account of this horn I have been favoured with by Dr. Gray, taken from the records of the Museum. A woman, named French, who lived near Tenterden, had a tumour or wen upon her head, which increased to the size of a walnut; and in the forty- eighth year of her. age this horn began to grow, and in four years arrived at its present size||. There are many similar histories of these horny excrescences in the authors I have quoted, and in several others; but those mentioned above • Ephero. Acad. Nat. Cur., Dec. i. An. i. Obscrvat. 30. + Ilistoire de la Soci£t6 Royale dc Medecine, 1776, p. 316. 1 Epistol. Thom. Barthol. jj Lee’s Natural History of Lancashire and Cheshire. || The following extract is taken from the Minutes of the Royal Society, February 14, 1704-5:— “ A letter was read from Dr. Chariere, at Barnstaple, concerning a horn, seven