527 THE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. case, being both a wound and a sore, and is more of the nature of a fresh wound in proportion to the thickness of the parts cut, and there- fore the dressing should be somewhat similar to that of a fresh wound. It is necessary that sometliing should be put into the opening, to keep it from healing by the first intention ; if it is lint it should be dipt in some salve, which will answer better than lint alone, as it will allow of more early extraction ; for such sores should be dressed the second time the next day, or the second day at latest, because there is a suppurating sore at the bottom, and the pus requires being discharged much sooner than if wholly either a fresh wound or a circumscribed cavity, which is to suppurate, as the tunica vaginalis in the case of the radical cure of the hydrocele. This pus keeps the lint (if dressed with lint) moist, so that it does not dry, as in fresh wounds in common. When the cut edges have come to suppuration, which will be in a few days, then the dressing afterwards may be as simple as possible, for Nature will in ge- neral perform the cure. If the abscess has been opened by caustic, and the slough is either cut out or allowed to slough it, then it is to be considered as an entire suppurating sore, and may be dressed accordingly; perhaps dry lint is as good as anything, till the nature of the sore is known ; if of a good kind, the same dressing may be continued, but if not, then it must be dressed accordingly; for Nature cannot always perform a cure ; for parts which were at first sound, or appeared so, from their readiness to go through the first stages, will subsequently take on every species of dis- ease, whether from indolence, from irritability, from scrofulous or other dispositions, which in some cases are produced from the nature of the parts diseased, such as bone, ligament, etc. [The reciprocal effects of structure on inflammation, and of inflammation on structure are two important subjects which are only incidentally noticed in the preceding pages! I propose therefore very briefly to notice these points. 1. To Haller is undoubtedly due the merit of having first analytically divided the animal body into its component tissues, and ascertained their distinctive physiological properties; while to Hunter we must accord the merit of applying this mode of inquiry to pathological investigations, conceiving that as each texture was endowed with pe- cnliar properties in a state of health, it would likewise in the same manner be affected in a special manner by the causes of disease, and consequently, that the same modes of lesion would always produce similar effects on all the analogous structures of the body. Bichat still further extended this system in his Annioinie Geiterolc, which appeared in 1801, but without acknowledgements to Hunter; and it is undoubtedly to this source that we must ascribe the great and rapid advances which have been made in pathological knowledge during the present century. To suppose, however, as some have done, and as was first ably suggested by Dr. Car- michael Smyth in 1790, that the differences of inflammation essentially and almost ex- clusively depend on differences of structure, is pushing the principle too far: for. ns