272 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. necting membrane, which has either sloughed off or ulcerated ; tendons likewise slough off as far us these muscles, and stop there. I have also observed, that difference in the situation of similar struc- tures in the body makes a material difference both in the powers of re- sistance to injuries, and of reparation when injuries have taken place. This difference seems to arise in proportion to the distance of the parts from the heart, or source of the circulation. Thus we see muscles, skin, etc. becoming more readily diseased in the legs than anywhere else, and more slow in their progress towards a cure; but this is not wholly to be laid to the charge of situation or distance from the source of the circulation, some portion of it is to be attributed to position, the legs being depending parts, and those parts which are most distinct happen also to be the most dependent*. We find an horizontal position assist in the repair of such parts, but even then they are not equal in their powers to parts situated about the chest; the difference therefore is principally to be attributed to situation, or distance from the heart. The same disease that showed the comparative powers between the muscle and tendon, shows also that they are equally affected by posi- tion ; thus we see ulceration and mortification taking place in the lower extremity, as such, more readily, and with less powers of repair, than happens in parts near the chest. This is still more the case if the person be tall. This is seen by chang- ing a limb from a horizontal position, in which it was easy, to a depen- dent one, Avherein it feels pain; because the new position increases the length of the column of blood in the veins. I am inclined to belie\e that the retardation of the cure is more owing to a stagnation of the blood in the veins, from the length of the column, than from a deficiency in the motion of the blood in the arteries. As the readiness of a part to fall into disease, and its backwardness to admit of cure, arises horn position, it is in some degree compensated by rest anil a change of the position. These differences in the structure, situation, and position of parts in the body, make, I believe, but little difference in the progress of specific diseases : the venereal disease, however, certainly does not make such progress in bone, tendon, etc. as in the skin ; nor does the cure adtance so rapidly in those parts ; but both these effects may be attributed to another cause, which is, that bones and tendons are more deeply seat oil. 1 believe, however, that position makes no difference iu the disease it- self, although it may have some influence upon the power of cure, and perhaps in all specific diseases, in the progress towards a cure; for a * We find in most authors the whole laid to this, which l shall more fully discuss m the history of opinions.