UNION BY THE FIltST INTENTION. 263 Many wounds ought to be allowed to scab in which this process is now prevented; and this arises, I believe, from the conceit of surgeons who think themselves possessed of powers superior to nature, and there- fore have introduced the practice of making sores of all wounds: as a scab, however, must always be on a surface, it is only on superficial wounds, or on superficial parts of deeper wounds, that scabs can form. How far this practice may be extended I do not know : but there are cases in which it should be discouraged, as where deep-seated ex- traneous bodies have been introduced, as in gun-shot wounds, or where deeper-seated parts have been killed; but it will answer extremely well where the superficies only is deprived of life. Superficial hurts are very common on parts opposite and near to some bone, as on the head, shin-bone, fingers, &c., but more especially on the shin. In all such cases it is better to let them scab, if they seem in- clined, or will admit of it; and, if that should not succeed, they can but suppurate at hist, and no harm is done. In many deep-seated wounds, where all the parts have remained in contact, those underneath will unite much better if the surface be al- lowed to scab. Some compound fractures (more especially where the external wound is very small) should be allowed to heal in the same way: for by permitting the blood to scab upon the wound, either by it- self or when soaked into lint, the parts underneath will unite, the blood under the scab will become vascular, and the union will be complete even where the parts are not in contact. How far this practice may be extended is not yet ascertained. A small wound doing well under this treatment is a common case, and some examples of large wounds are mentioned3, though these do not so generally succeed; but I do not know that there is any danger in the attempt. In many cases, therefore, which seem doubtful, where the external contusion is not very great, or not continued of the same size as in the deeper-seated parts, it may be tried. In some of those cases which have been allowed to scab, the parts injured have appeared ready to go into inflammation : a red circle has been seen all round, produced by the irritation of the scab. Suppuration takes place underneath the scab, and the pus makes its escape from under its edges; but even in such cases, I should be cautious of treating it as a suppurating sore. 1 * [Mr. Wardrop, in his Lectures on Surgery, has related a very remarkable case, in «»uch “the largest wounded surface” he ever beheld, arising from the ablation of a sensed breast, almost entirely healed under a crust of blood, which remained on the sur ace of the wound for upwards of thirty days,—the process of granulation, approxi- mation o the edges, and cicatrization of the wounds going on underneath, with scarcely any irritation or inflammation of the adjacent integuments. See Lancet, 1832-3, ii. 05,VI