592 ON INTROSUSCEPTION. ately affect that portion of the outer which contains the introsusceptiou; but we must suppose that whatever affects or comes in contact with the larger portion of the canal, so as to throw it into action, will also affect by sympathy any part that may escape such application. I should there- fore advise giving vomits, with a view to invert the peristaltic motion of the containing gut, which will have a tendency to bring the intestines into their natural situation. If this practice should not succeed, it might be proper to consider it as a retrograde introsusception, and by administering purges endeavour to increase the peristaltic motion downwards. SUPPLEMENT TO THE PAPER UPON INTROSUSCEPTION. By Sir Everard Home, Bart. The following case of introsusception upwards has been communi- cated to me by the late Mr. Smith, surgeon at Bristol; in whose collec- tion of morbid preparations I saw the parts, which had been removed from the dead body, and preserved in spirits. That the introsusception was upwards is sufficiently ascertained from the preparation. The particulars of the case, as far as they came to the knowledge of Mr. Smith, who examined the body after death, were as follow: A cabin-boy, belonging to one of the ships lying in Bristol harbour, was corrected by his master for some misconduct, at which the boy was very much exasperated, and in the heat of his passion swallowed some arsenic, which had been laid in different parts of the ship to poison rats. He was attacked with violent pain in the stomach and intestines, attended with excessive vomiting, and expired before any medical assistance could be procured. Upon inspection of the body, the internal surface of the stomach was found inflamed to a very great degree, the inflammation extending a con- siderable way along the track of the small intestines, and in the ileum there was discovered an introsusception of above two inches long, formed by a portion of the lower part of the gut having been inverted, and pushed into that immediately above it. On slitting up the intestine, to examine the introsusception more ac- curately, a long round worm was found coiled round the projecting intro- suscepted part, and is preserved in that situation in the preparation. The circumstances under which the round worm was found determines the kind of introsusception, since I have observed that species of worm more commonly in the upper portion of the small intestines, in which situation having been disturbed by the effects of the arsenic, it had con-