ON THE CURE OF TITE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 609 an inch distance. The depth of the incision made it difficult for any but the operator and those immediately assisting him to see what was included in the ligature, and at the time the popliteal artery was sup- posed to be secured by it. The wound was dressed up in the common way. The second day after the operation a pulsation was felt in the tumour, which afterwards enlarged so much that Mr. Pott amputated the limb. It is said that the aneurism appeared, upon an examination of the limb, to have been in an anastomising branch, not in the trunk of the artery. 'flie following remarks upon this operation will tend in some measure to illustrate the method recommended and practised by Mr. Hunter. The mode of taking up the artery in the ham must be always unfa- vourable to the future success of the operation, if either the artery it- self should be diseased, or if the tumour, by being so contiguous to the violence done in the operation, should be affected by the consequent inflammation, which seems to have been the case in Mr. Pott’s operation, as I understand two abscesses were formed close to the sides of the sac. Had the aneurism been situated in an anastomising branch of the po- pliteal artery, given off below' the ligature, there should have been no pulsation afterw'ards in the tumour; and were it in a branch going oft' above the ligature, the pulsation in the tumour should have continued immediately after the operation, and should have been increased by it, neither of which effects appear really to have taken place, which throw's a doubt upon the situation of the aneurism if the popliteal artery was rendered impervious by the compression of the ligature. Mr. Cline, surgeon to St. Thomas’s Hospital, performed the operation for the popliteal aneurism in the following manner, at which I w'as pre- sent ; and although not exactly as recommended by Mr. Hunter, it was very nearly so. The particulars of the case I have not received from Mr. Cline, but have taken them from my own observation, and the in- formation of gentlemen who attended the patient, and w-ere present at the examination after death. The patient was a sailor, who came into St. Thomas’s Hospital to undergo the operation for the popliteal aneurism. Mr. Cline made a longitudinal incision on the anterior part of the thigh, and having laid bare the artery, passed, by means of a tin instru- ment, a double tape, about one inch broad, behind the artery, the two pieces of tape lying one over the other ; the piece of tin which conducted the tape was cut off, and a cork nearly an inch long was laid upon the artery, and confined to its situation by means of the upper tape, pro- ducing in this way a sufficient pressure upon the vessel included between VOL. HI, 2 R