THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 336 making experiments, to ascertain any variation, it is not necessary to ascertain at the same time the temperature of the atmosphere. Heat, I imagine, is a sign of strength and power of constitution, al- though it may often arise from an increased action either of weak con- stitutions or of weakened parts. Heat is a positive action, while cold is the reverse, therefore producing weakness, and often arising from a diminished action of strong parts0. It has not yet been considered whether an animal has the power of producing heat equally in every part of the body, although, from what is generally advanced on this subject, we are led to suppose that every part has this power, or whether it is carried from some one source of heat by the blood to every part; this may probably not be easily deter- mined ; but I am apt to suspect there is a principal source of heat, al- though it may not be in the blood itself, the blood being only affected by having its source near the source of heat. That this principle resides in the stomach is probable, or at least I am certain that affections of the stomach will produce either heat or cold. There are affections of the stomach which produce the sensation of heat in it, and the air that arises in eructations feels hot to the mouth of the person; but whether these sensations arise from actual heat, or from sensation only, I have not been able to determine. Stimulating sub- stances applied to the stomach will produce a glow. Affections of the mind produce the same effect, which last circumstance might seem to contradict the idea of its arising from the stomach; but I suspect that the stomach sympathizes with those actions of the brain which form the mind, and then produces heat, which will be better illustrated in treating of cold. I suspect that the cold bath produces heat in the rature, experienced an elevation equal to 10°, and sometimes 13°. Dr. Edwards and M. Despretz found a difference of 6° in birds in the winter and summer months, being in the former 105° and in the latter 111°. Dr. Davy found that the standard heat of the Cingalese varied from 1° to 2° above the average in more temperate climates. Dr. Fordyce and his friends experienced an elevation of 2° or 3° in their experiments on heated air, and De la Roche an elevation of 5° after remaining seventeen minutes in a vapour bath at 120°. The singular power which the body possesses of accommodating itself to the extremes of external circumstances, is well exemplified by a fact recorded by Capt. Lyon in Capt. Parry’s second voyage to the arctic regions, where the tempe- rature of eleven out of sixteen foxes, killed in Winter Isle (lat. 06° 11', temp. —3° to — 32°) varied from 100° to 106|° at their vital parts ; as well as by the counter-fact that the temperature of persons exposed to very high degrees of natural heat, as at Sierra Leone, (100° to 103°), Senegal (108$° to 117$°), Oronoco (110° to 115°), &c., docs not in ge- neral vary more than a few degrees from the standard heat. How this is accomplished has been fully shown by M. De la Roche. Journal dr Physiologie, Ixiii., lxxi., and lxvii.J * [See Note, §. i. 279.]