THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 395 of humours, that is, the drawing off of the humours from the seat where they had taken possession ; but I believe much more has been ascribed to it than it deserves. How far it really takes place I have not been able fully to ascertain in all its parts; that is, how far the real disease is in- vited, and accepts of the invitation; but I have already observed, that there is such a principle of disease in the animal oeconomy, although we must sec from derivation that the same quantity, or perhaps more irri- tation, is retained in the constitution; yet the artificial irritation pro- duced being either such as more readily admits of a cure than the dis- ease in the part, or being in parts which are not so essential to life, an advantage by this means is gained; thus, burning the ear is practised as a cure for the tooth-ache, and the part which is burnt more readily admits of a cure than the tooth. We also find that blisters often cure or remove deep-seated pains, such as head-ache, and relieve the bladder when applied to the perinaeum. Blisters and caustics behind the ear cure also inflammations of the eye. Less may be said on revulsion, since we have explained derivation. To draw off a disease always implies safe ground, and can be applied with safety in any disease; revulsion can best be applied when the dis- ease attacks essential parts, where the application cannot be so near as to imply derivation. Thus we find that vomits will cure an inflamma- tion of the testicles, white swellings, and even venereal buboes ; and si- napisms applied to the feet relieve the head. • Translation differs from derivation, revulsion, and repulsion, only as it proceeds from a natural or spontaneous cause, whereas these proceed from an artificial, accidental, or external cause, and the common prin- ciple of them all seems to be sympathy ; for if not an act of its own [i. e. of the disease itself], then it must be either repelled, derived, or from sympathy. Very strange instances of translation are given us ; it has been supposed that pus already formed has been translated to another part of the body, deposited there in form of an abscess, and then dis- charged. This is an operation absolutely impossible®. Matter absorbed may be carried off by some of the secretions, such as that by the kid- neys, which have a power of removing more than they secrete ; but the deposition of pus is the same with its formation. Both revulsion and repulsion may be reckoned a species of translation. The gout moving of its own accord from the stomach to the foot, or from one foot to the other, may be reckoned a translation of the gout. * [ lies opinion is nevertheless entertained by several justly celebrated physiologists ' t ic present day. See Vol. I., 352, note, and Andral, Anat. Pathol., i. 105.]