OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 165 The thickening in the muscle of a horse was found to be an increase of one fourth part of thickness to one third of a contraction *; from which it follows that the more the muscular fibres of any vessel con- tract, the more the vessel is lengthened ; but destroy the muscular con- traction by dilating the artery, and the elastic power, which acts in all directions, will immediately take place, and restore the vessel to its pro- per size; which is a proof that the effect of the lateral swell produced by the muscular contraction is greater than that of the longitudinal elas- ticity of the artery. If we examine how much the vessel has lost of its length in this trial, we shall find it will amount to about one twelfth of the whole; a proof that the internal coat does not contract so much longitudinally by its muscular power as the external does by its elasticity. By multiplying such experiments we have further proofs that the power of muscular contraction acts chiefly in a circular direction ; for in a longitudinal sec- tion of an artery in its contracted state, the internal coat does not pro- ject as in a transverse section, both coats remaining equal ; or rather, indeed, the elastic coat projects beyond the other, from the internal muscular coat having contracted most. But if this section be stretched transversely, the external coat then contracts, and leaves the internal most projecting; because the internal or muscular has now no power of contraction. If the transverse extension be repeated, and to a greater degree, the artery, when allowed to recover itself, will have its inside turned outwards, as well as bent longitudinally, having the inside of the artery on the outside of the curve, and often bringing the two ends to- gether : but this is easily accounted for; for as by the transverse ex- tension of the artery its muscular contraction is destroyed, it becomes pliant; and the only resistance to the elastic power on this side being now removed, it is allowed to exert itself to its utmost extent. In doing this it bends the section in a longitudinal direction, which also inclines us to believe that the external part of the elastic coat is the most elastic. * This calculation is not accurate; for in the experiments made to discover if the muscle lost of its size in the whole when contracted, I found it hardly did: therefore, what it lost in length it must have acquired in thickness *. [ Die fact that muscles, when thgy contract, acquire in thickness exactly what they lose in length, may easily he proved by observing the effect which the contraction of the ventricles of the heart, or live eels, have on a vessel of water, to which has previ- ously been aflixed a narrow graduated tube. We cannot, however, infer from this fact that the arteries are muscular, since precisely the same effect would follow- from the contraction of any purely elastic body as follows from the contraction of a muscle.]