THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 484 tween the abscess and the skin takes place, and the matter is led on to the external surface of the body, where it is at last discharged. If the disposition for ulceration was equal on every side of the abscess, it must open into the intestine, which is seldom the case, although it sometimes does ; for the same precautions are not taken here as in many other situations; for in some others, as in the nose, in the case of an abscess of the lachrymal sac, the passage is thickened towards the nose. In the case above described, however, the abdominal muscles, fat, and skin are removed, rather than the coats of the intestine. Cases of this kind have come under my own observation. In these cases if adhesions had not preceded ulceration, the matter must have been diffused over the whole cavity of the belly ; if the ad- hesive inflammation had not likewise gone before the ulceration in the abdominal muscles, etc., the matter would have found a free passage from the abscess into the cellular membrane of the abdomen, as soon as the ulceration had got through the first adhesions, as is often the case in erysipelatous suppurations. Abscesses between the lungs and the pleura, in the liver, gall-bladder, etc. rise to the surface from the same cause; also in lumbar abscesses, where one would at first imagine the readiest place of opening would he the cavity of the abdomen, or gut; the parts nearest to the skin are removed, and the matter passes out that way : however, in abscesses so very deep, it does not always happen that one side only is susceptible of the irritation, and we shall find that the matter is taking different courses. Abscesses in the substance of the lungs sometimes differ from the above described, for they sometimes open into the air-cells : this occurs because the adhesive inflammation finds it difficult to unite the air-cells, and branches of the trachea, (as was described in treating of that inflam- mation,) and also because in the substance of the lungs, it may be difficult to say where it can take a lead externally, from which, probably, the air-cells become similar to an external surface, and then ulceration takes place on that side of the abscess which is nearest to the cells; therefore we find that the matter gets very readily into the air-cells, and from thence into the trachea. That the air-cells do not take on the adhesive state is evident in most abscesses in this part; for we find in most of these cases that the air- cells are exposed, as also the branches of the trachea; and the parts of the lungs which compose this abscess have not the firmness and solidity which the adhesive inflammation generally produces in those parts where it tiikes place. Thus too we find it going on in large abscesses, even after they have