THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 353 i has no power to excite inflammation when the cavity is otherwise per- I feet, wliich the adhesions had effected; this shows also that adhesions of two surfaces round the exposed part exclude every part from the nc- II cessity of inflammation, as was explained when treating of inflammation. From the connection between the living powers of the solids and the fluids, we can hardly suppose that such an uncommon action could take j place in the vascular system without producing its effects upon the fluids; and therefore, from reasoning, we might suppose that the coagulating 1 lymph undergoes some changes in its passage through the inflamed \ vessels, which obliges it to coagulate more immediately, or much sooner jtthan it otherwise would*. For in those cases of inflamed arms, after bleeding, and in inflammations in consequence of other causes, we find ' that the cavities of the veins are in many places furred over, and in others [the sides] united by means of the coagulating lymph. Now if • this coagulating lymph is similar in its production to that which we have been describing, it must have been thrown out from the vasa va- ■ sorum, these vessels having separated it and poured it into the cavity of the veins, and it must there have coagulated immediately; in this >separation, therefore, from the blood, it must have undergone some change, arising from the actions of the vessels ; for if this lymph was no more than the coagulating lymph with its common properties, or the ^properties common to that which is circulating in the same vein which receives it, it would in such cases only continue to throw in more co- agulating lymph, in addition to what was circulating, and therefore, j probably, it would be carried along with the blood to the heart, as a part of the common mass. From this we should infer that this coagulating matter is not simply the coagulating lymph, such as it is when circulating, but somewhat dif- ferent, from having undergone a change in its passage through the in- flamed vessels, part;iking of the disposition of those solids which are inflamed through which it passed. This process cannot therefore be supposed to be merely extravasation; for I conceive that an oedema would be a consequence of simple extravasation. But this may be taken up in another point of view, and upon the same principle. The inflamed vessels may give a disposition to the blood, as it is moving slowly along, to coagulate on its surface; and this is probably the more just idea of the two, as we find that the vessels, both veins and arteries, can give riiis is contrary to the disposition of inflammatory blond when taken out of he vessels and allowed to go through its spontaneous changes j from which it would ap- pear that the general afTection of the blood (which I would call sympathy of the coagu- ating lymph with the universal irritation,) is different from its affection or disposition | *’hen employed for the purposes of union, VOL. III. 2 A