GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 118 same powers of separation with the blood ; and it acquires its power of action in the lungs as the venal blood does [p. 67, note.']. I conceive this [viz. the action of the air on the chyle] to be similar to the influ- ence of the male and female on an egg, which requires air and a due warmth to produce the principle of action in it, and somewhat similar to the venal blood coming to the lungs to receive new powers, which it communicates to the body. To endeavour to prove whether the chyle had the power of action in itself, similar to the blood, I made the fol- lowing experiment. I opened the abdomen of a dog, and punctured one of the largest lacteals at the root of the mesentery, out of which flowed a good deal of chyle, I then allowed this part to come in contact with another part of the mesentery, to see if they would unite, as extravasated blood does; but they did not. However, this experiment, though performed twice, is not conclusive ; for similar experiments with blood might not have succeeded. From what has been said with regard to the blood, that it becomes a solid when extravasated in the body, we must suppose that some mate- rial purpose is answered by it; for if the blood could only have been of use in a fluid state, its solidity would not have been so much an object with nature. It appears to me to be evident that its fluidity is only in- tended for its motion, and its motion is only to convey life and living materials to every part of the body. These materials, when carried, become solid; so that solidity is the ultimate end of the blood, as blood. The blood, when it naturally increases the body or repairs a part, may be said to be extravasated, although it is not commonly so consi- dered : what is usually understood by extravasation is when blood is effused from some accident, or from disease in the vessels, when of course it becomes obvious to the sight; but even this extravasation is of use, by the blood coagulating, although too often it is in too large a quantity. Accident does not calculate the size of the vessel ruptured to be just equal to the effect wanted by the rupture; but nature has made a wise provision for this overplus. As extravasation arises from a rupture of a vessel, it is of sendee in the reunion of that vessel: if there are more solids ruptured than a vessel, as in a fracture of a bone, it becomes a bond of union to those parts; and this may be called union by the first intention: but the union is not that of the two parts to each other, but the union of the broken parts to the intermediate extravasated blood; so that it is the blood and parts uniting which constitutes the union by the first in- tention.