584 OBSERVATIONS ON THE INFLAMMATION OF take sufficient care to close up the external wound; for although the method usually employed would at first sight appear to be a good one, that is, by a pin passed through the wound from side to side, as in the hare-lip, and over-tied by a thread or hair, yet, if not executed with sufficient attention, I should be inclined to believe that it is the very worst, as it very readily promotes inflammation in the cavity of the vein, either of the adhesive or suppurative kind, according as the ligature does or does not communicate with the cavity. In some of these inflammations of horses I have seen the jugular vein inflamed through its whole length, and all the side of the head has been considerably swelled, and the inflammation carried along the vein quite into the chest. In these cases there is always an abscess formed at the wound, and often several along the vein, as in the human subject; and whenever the complaint is carried so far as this stage, the cavity becomes united at those places by granulations, and the vein is ever after imper- vious. Many horses die of this disease ; but what is the particular cir- cumstance which occasions their death I have not been able to deter- mine. It may either be that the inflammation extends itself to the heart, or that the matter secreted from the inside of the vein passes alon? that tube in considerable quantity to the heart, and mixes with the blood. I am inclined to believe that the exposure of cavities of the larger veins in cases of accidents, and also of operations, is often the cause of many of the very extensive inflammations which sometimes attend these cases, and indeed may be the reason why inflammations extend or spread at all beyond the sphere of continued sympathy®. In all cases where inflammation of veins runs high, or extends itself considerably, it is to be expected that the whole system will be affected. For the most part the same kind of affection takes place which arises from other inflammations, with this exception, that where no adhesions of the sides of the veins are formed, or where such adhesions are incom- plete, pus passing into the circulation may add to the general disorder, and even render it fatal. In all cases of inflammation where adhesions take place they arise from an extravasation of coagulable lymph ; but how such adhesions should take place on the internal surface of veins appears at first sight difficult to conceive, since it is most obvious that the coagulable lymph thrown out by the exhalants on the internal surface of the vein, mixing with the same fluid circulating with the other parts of the blood, would be swept * [The frequency of phlebitis, not only after accidents and operations but in puerpe- ral women, has fully confirmed the truth of this conjecture. Inflammation even of the veins of the bones, according to Cruveilhier, is a frequent consequence of operations on these par's.]