ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 605 About the end of the tenth week he was attacked with a very severe remitting fever, which lasted fourteen days, arid left him much reduced ; but in the fourteenth week he was so far recovered as to leave the ho- spital, and go into the country for the recovery of his health. The fifth patient upon whom Mr. Hunter performed this operation was Joseph Caswell, aged forty-two, a man not accustomed to horse exercise or any mode of life which could in the least assist in producing the disease. The aneurism was in the ham of the left leg. In performing the operation the artery alone was included in a strong single ligature, and the wound was healed by the first intention, leav- ing a passage for the ligature. The local inflammation was extremely small, and consequently attended with little sympathetic fever. The ligature came away the eleventh day, and in five weeks he went into the country, able to walk with a stick, the wound perfectly healed. In this case the heat of the two legs was carefully examined twice a day, from the second to the ninth after the operation, and the limb operated upon was uniformly colder than the other. He came to town six months after the operation, and said that the left leg was fully as strong as the right, but when exposed to cold he was more sensible of its eftects upon that leg. About two months after the operation he had a violent pain in the upper part of the left foot, similar to what is felt when a nerve is pressed : this lasted for about six weeks, and afterwards went entirely off. As no nerve was included in the li- gature, this affection probably arose from the nerve in its passage through the consolidated parts being deprived of its natural freedom. There was a small tumour, the remains of the aneurismal sac, very distinctly to be felt in the ham, but without pulsation, and to the feel perfectly solid. The following case was operated upon by Mr. Lynn, surgeon of the Westminster Hospital, in the same manner as above mentioned ; and the account of the operation is given in his own words :— “ Samuel Smart, a hackney-coachman, twenty-five years of age, had a popliteal aneurism, for which I performed the operation in the follow- ing manner. I made an incision down to the femoral artery, a little below the middle of the thigh, and having separated the artery from the contiguous parts, I passed under it, by means of an eyed probe, a broad ligature, which was tied so as to cut off7 all communication with the tu- mour, and the lips of the wound were brought together and retained by sticking-plaster, and the patient put to bed: this leg was rather colder than the other, and ordered to be fomented. The next day he was free from pain, and the limb was warmer than the other. “ On the fourth the dressings were removed, and the parts were found united, except at the ligature.