199 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. , iof or under the necessity of performing: and this particularly in parts 11 whose uses may be called double, as the organs of secretion in general, Ibrain, and muscles ; even in inflammation, and in proportion as these t; parts are employed in their peculiar actions, they become to appearance i: more vascular. Some animals have naturally red muscles, without its being the effect , of considerable action : this is very remarkable in the hare ; but the red- ness in the muscles of this animal may be intended to adapt its muscles i i naturally for violent exertions at all times. Muscles are of different t colours, respecting red and white, in the same animal; but that I believe is also in proportion to the quantity of action the parts are put to. This effect the epicure is well acquainted with : he knows that the wing of a partridge is whiter than the leg, and that the leg of a woodcock is whiter than the wing. The veal of this country is a remarkable in- stance of this : for the calf is hardly allowed to stir, and the muscles are white; but when the calf is allowed to follow its mother, the muscles are of a reddish colour. It may be, however, remarked that wrhite meat is commonly the least juicy; and we find it remarkably so in those animals which are fed for this purpose, because they require nothing but their simple support, and, having little or no action within themselves, they have but little wTaste. Such change of appearance we find carried to a considerable extent in the uterus at the time of the menses ; but much more particularly at the time of uterine gestation, where the vessels increase both in size and length, in proportion to the actions required. But parts whose use in the machine may be said to be passive, as tendon, cellular membrane, ligaments, investing membrane, bone, and cartilage (which last is probably the most passive), have all small vessels, and of course but few that are visible. As bone, however, is composed of two parts, viz. animal substance and earth, it is probable there may be more action required to form the latter than either tendon or cartilage, and therefore there will be more vessels. As a further proof that this is a general principle, we find that all growing parts are much more vascular than those that are come to their full growth ; because growth is an operation beyond the.simple support of the part. This is the reason why young animals are more vascular than those that are full-grown. This is not peculiar to the natural operation of growth, but applies also to disease and restoration. Parts become vascular in inflammation : the callus, granulations, and new- formed cutis are much more vascular in the growing state, or when just formed, than afterwards; for we see them crowded with blood-vessels when growing, but when full-grown they begin to lose their visible vessels, and become not even so vascular as in the neighbouring original