420 OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. which is not the case with inflammation, for there the sensation is the first symptom. These formations of matter, although they (lo approach the skin, yet do not do it in the same manner as collections of pus. They do not produce readily either the elongating or the ulcerative process, and as the matter was not preceded by the adhesive inflammation, these col- lections are more easily moved from their original seat into some other part by any slight pressure, such as the weight of their own matter; from which I have called them abscesses in a part, in opposition to ab- scesses of a part: when the matter does approach the skin, it is com- monly by merely a distension of the part, coming by a broad surface, not attended with any marks of pointing. Their surrounding parts or boundaries are soft, not being attended with thickening ; more especially those in a part. Such collections of matter are always larger than they would have been, if they had been either a consequence of inflammation or attended by it: this is owing to their indolence, allowing of great distention be- yond the extent of the first disease, and even of their moving into other parts ; whereas an abscess in consequence of inflammation is confined to the extent of inflammation that takes on suppuration, and its rapid pro- gress towards the skin prevents distention, and of course extension of the disease. All those formations of matter not preceded by inflammation, nor a consequence of it, are I believe similar to each other, having in this re- spect one common principle, very different from inflammation. The cancer, although it produces a secretion, yet does not produce pus till exposed ; it is therefore one of those diseases, like the scrofula, which does not suppurate till inflammation comes on, and even seldom then; for true suppuration arises from inflammation, terminating in a disposi- tion to heal, which is not the case with cancer. In the scrofulous sup- puration there is often a like reluctance to heal. The kind of matter is another distinguishing mark between that pro- duced in consequence of inflammation and what is formed without it, the last being generally composed" of a curdly substance mixed with a flaky matter. The curdly substance is, we may suppose, the coagulating lymph deprived of its serum*, and the other or flaky is probably the same, only in smaller parts ; it looks like the precipitate of animal matter from an acid or an alkali. So far these productions of matter in their remote and immediate * I may observe here that the coagulating lymph of long standing is not similar to the recent. This is similar to blootl in general, for we find that the blood in aneurisms, which was first coagulated, is very different from that which has only coagulated lately.