622 CASE OF PARALYSIS OF A CASE OF PARALYSIS OF THE MUSCLES OF DEGLUTI- 1ION, CURED BY AN ARTIFICIAL MODE OF CONVEYING FOOD AND MEDICINES INTO THE STOMACH. By John Hunter, Esq., F.R.S., Surgeon Extraordinary to thk King, and Surgeon General to the Army. Read September 21, 1700. [From the Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge, Vol. I. p. 182. 1793.] Diseases which are not mortal in themselves may often, from their secondary effects, become the cause of death; but if these secondary effects are removed, the disease frequently admits of a cure, or even ceases of itself. Thus diseases, when they attack the vital organs, may, from the nature of the parts alone, prove fatal; and this will be sooner or later, according to the particular functions of the parts diseased. Obstructions to breathing, to the passing of the urine, to the act of swallowing, or the discharge of the faeces, will all terminate in death, if continued for a certain length of time, whatever be the nature of the disease. Difficulty in swallowing, the subject of the present paper, may arise from a variety of causes, since an obstruction in any part of the canal leading from the mouth to the stomach will produce that complaint. I he swallowing our food is a complicated operation, and includes two different actions. The first of these conveys it into the oesophagus; the second carries it along that canal into the stomach : and the parts which perform these two actions are in themselves distinct, so that one may be obstructed or diseased while the other remains perfectly sound. The first action is often impeded, or wholly prevented, by inflamma- tion ; but this is seldom of long continuance, and the cure is probably promoted by the patient’s being obliged to abstain from food. It is also impeded by swellings in the neighbouring glands, but this will com- monly be in a less degree ; and where it threatens suffocation, or a total prevention of deglutition, the patient can often be relieved by an operation. 1 he second action is sometimes obstructed by ulcers in the oesopha- gus, which have a cancerous appearance; sometimes strictures in that canal, which are of a permanent nature; also spasmodic contractions, which are commonly confounded with strictures, but may, I believe, be readily distinguished both from strictures and ulcerations. Ulcers and strictures, from being permanent diseases, in the end de-