TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 322 flammation is applied, is, I believe, exactly similar to a blush. It is, I believe, simply an increase or distension beyond their natural size. This effect we see takes place upon many occasions ; gentle friction on the skin produces it, gently stimulating medicines have the same effect; a warm glow is the consequence, similar to that of the cheek in a blush ; and if either of these be increased or continued, real inflammation will be the consequence, as well as excoriation, suppuration, and ulceration. This effect we often see, even where considerable mischief has been done; and I believe it is what always terminates the boundaries of the true in- flammation. A musket-ball shall pass a considerable way under the skin, perhaps half-way round the body, which shall be discovered and traced by a red band in the skin, not in the least hard, only a little tender to the touch ; and it shall subside without extending further. This appear- ance I shall term a blush; for although this may be reckoned the first act of inflammation, yet I would not call it inflammation, having pro- duced a lasting effect. I should rather say that inflammation sets out from this point, and that afterwards a new action begins, which is pro- bably first a separation of the coagulating lymph, and the throwing it out of the vessels. The parts inflamed appear to become more vascular; but how far they are really so I am not certain; for this appearance does (at least in part) arise from the dilatation of the vessels, which allows the red part of the blood to go into vessels where only serum and coagulating lymph could pass when they were in a natural state ; and till the newly-extravasated substances become vascular, the effect is most probably owing wholly to the above cause. This incipient enlargement of the vessels upon the first excitement of inflammation is satisfactorily seen in the following manner. Make an incision through the skin on the inside of the upper part of a dog’s tliigh, three inches long. By pulling the cut edges asunder, and observing the exposed surface, we shall see the blush or ash-coloured cellular membrane covering the different parts underneath, with a few arteries passing through it to the neighbouring parts. But in a little time we shall see these vessels increasing in size, and also smaller vessels going off from them that were not before observable, as if newly formed or forming ; the number and size shall increase till the whole surface shall become extremely vascular, and at last the red blood shall be thrown out in small dots on the exposed surface, probably through the cut ends of the arteries that only carried the lymph before. This surface will become in time more opake and less ductile. Parts inflamed, when com- pared with similar parts not inflamed, show a considerable difference in the size of the vessels, and probably from this cause bring an increased