FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 273 venereal sore is always approaching nearer and nearer to the nature of a common sore, and therefore is more and more readily influenced by what influences a common sore. But in diseases for which there is at present no cure, as the cancer, I believe it makes no difference where it is situated, or in what it is placed, except in the case of such parts as have a tendency to such diseases, which no one of the parts above mentioned has more than another. I have so far considered, in the general way, the comparative powers of different structures, of different situations, and of different positions in some parts of the body when affected by disease. Disease is the Only circumstance which exposes these principles to our view; but to see how far the same principle was carried in natural operations, of which the most remarkable is the growth of parts, I made several expe- : riments on fowls. The first was the common experiment of transplant- i ing the spur of a young chicken from its leg to its comb, in which ex- i periment I always found that the spur on the comb, when it took root, grew much faster and became much larger than that left on the leg! This I attributed to the greater power of action in the comb than in the leg. although they are pretty nearly at equal distances from the source 1 ^ie circulation; but probably position also favoured it, as there was :no stagnation in the veins of the head. In the power of producing >such effects in disease, as well as in the growth of parts, I was then desirous to know the comparative degrees between the male and the ; female. I wished also to ascertain if the parts peculiar to the male could grow on the female, and if the parts of a female, on the contrary, would grow on a male. Although I had formerly transplanted the testicles of a cock into the 'abdomeQ of a ken, and they had sometimes taken root there, but not frequently, and then had never come to perfection, yet the experiment could not, from this cause, answer fully the intended purpose ; there is I beheve* a natural rea60n to believe it could not, and the experiment was therefore disregarded*. I took the spur from the leg of a young '°ck’ ^ Placed it in the situation of the spur in the leg of a hen chicken* t took root, the chicken grew to a hen, but at first no spur grew while he sPur that wa* left on the other leg of the cock grew as usual.’ This experiment I have repeated several times in the same summer, with the same effects, which led me to conceive that the spur of a cock would iot grow upon a hen, and that they were, therefore, to be considered es distinct animals, having very distinct powers. In order to ascertain his, I took the spurs of hen chickens and placed them on the legs of • Vide p. 25fi, and book on Teeth, II. 55.' VOL. III. T