282 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. at first from the fracture, or would have arisen from the immediate am- putation. This would appear to be a contradiction to the above posi- tion ; but, upon an accurate investigation, I think it may be accounted for; for, first, I do not look upon full health as the best condition to re- sist disease \ Disease is a state of body which requires a medium: health brooks disease ill, and full health is often above par; persons in full health are too often at the full stretch of action, and cannot bear an in- crease, especially when diseased ; and, as I before observed, it is a new impression on the constitution, and till it be in some degree accustomed to local disease it is less able to bear such as is violent; besides, the re- moval of a diseased part which the constitution has been accustomed to, and which is rather fretting the constitution, is adding less violence than the removal of a sound part in perfect harmony with the consti- tution ; the difference, however, is not wholly owing to that cause, for the circumstance of a constitution being accustomed to a mode of life, &c. which it is to continue, makes a considerable difference. §.3. Of Parts of the Body most susceptible of the three dif- ferent Inflammations to be treated of. All parts of the body are susceptible of inflammation, although not all equally so ; nor will all parts of the body admit readily of the three different kinds of inflammation I mean to treat of, some parts admitting readily of one only, others of two, and others of all the three; which difference appears to be according to the situation of the inflamed parts in the body, and also the nature of the parts inflamed. The cellular membrane the first. The cellular membrane free from the adipose appears to be more susceptible of the adhesive inflammation 1 [Exemption from disease may be compatible to a certain extent with a predomi- nating action of some one system over another, as of the vascular or nervous; yet such constitutions are ill adapted to contend with disease, and ought not in truth to be called healthy. The inhabitants of hot climates are prone to nervous diseases, as tetanus, &c., but are little obnoxious to inflammation; while during the Peninsular war it was found that the Portuguese, from being less disposed to inflammation, recovered from in- juries which the English would certainly have died from, probably from the latter using a fuller and more stimulating diet, although both might previously have enjoyed equal apparent good health. The justness of Hunter’s observation is remarkably exemplified in the case of dray- men, bargemen, and such class of persons, whose habits of severe labour lead them to the habitual excessive use of fermented liquors and an inordinate diet, the consequence of which generally is that they form the worst class of patients in our public hospitals, and speedily succumb under severe operations.]