GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 125 of contraction in a muscle, resisting putrefaction. For this purpose I ordered the following experiments to be made. Four ounces of blood were taken from the arm, which, after coagula- i according to which it would appear that the principle of life may exist both in a passive and in an active state ; in a passive state generally only where there is no apparent or- . ganization, but in an active state wherever organization is developed. It has been con- sidered by several modern physiologists, that as we are entirely ignorant of the nature of life, we ought to reject all such expressions as principle of life, vital principle, &c. as vague and indeterminate abstractions ; but surely the same grounds exist for banishing the term principle altogether from our vocabularies. In the analysis of complex phe- nomena we ascend to ultimate facts, for which we assign some unknown causes, dif- ferently denominated forces, principles, or powers of matter, which have been likened to the unknown algebraical quantities x and y; and the determination of the laws by which : these operate, constitutes the sole business of the philosopher. I do not, therefore, agree in the following observation of Majendie: “ De toutes les illusions dans lesquelles sont tombes quelques physiologistes modernes, l’une des plus deplorables est d’avoir crus, en forgeant un mot principe vital, ou force vitale, avoir fait quelque chose d’analogue a la : decouverte de la pesanteur universelle(Physiologic, p. 14.) but rather in the remark iof Prout, “ that it is absolutely necessary to assume the existence of some agency dif- i ferent from and superior to that which operates among inorganic matters,” (Bridgewater Treatise, p. 442.) whether this agency be called life, the principle of life, or merely or- s ganic agencies. The circumstances under which this principle is usually manifested are infinitely com- plicated, arising partly from the reaction of the different parts on each other, and partly l from the introduction into the living organism of most of those powers which operate on i inorganic bodies, which the principle of life has the power more or less of modifying and counteracting, in subserviency to its own purposes. The animal body may be re- garded as an intricate piece of machinery, arranged in perfect accordancy with the pre- existing properties of matter, so as to admit of the agency of those properties for the ac- complishment of its own ends: thus we see various apparatuses, as the eye, the ear, the heart, the joints, &c., contrived in perfect conformity with the laws of light, of sound, of fluids, and of force. Gravity is still gravity in organized as well as in unorganized bodies; and the phenomena of endosmose and exosmose, of evaporation, elasticity, im- bibition, and chemical affinity, plainly evince that these properties exist as well in living as in dead bodies, and even enter as essential elements into all the vital and most im- portant functions of the body. Physiology, in short, is a complex science, presenting phenomena which proceed from the combined operation of chemical, physical, and vital agencies, harmoniously intermixed, but in which the vital principle holds a sort of su- premacy, directing and modifying all the subordinate agencies to its own definite ends, besides producing effects which are not refcrrible to any other power. It seems, how- ever, as Sir E. Home observes, “ to be a rule of the animal ceconomy, that the laws o life should not be employed when the mechanical or chemical laws of matter will an- swer the purpose.” (Led. on Comp. Anal., v. 477.) Having admitted the possibility of the self-organization of blood and coagulable lymph, it appears to me that Hunter has not been quite consistent in limiting his notion of ac- tion so strictly as he has done. He speaks as if action could only take place in parts visibly organized, as, for instance, in the muscles; but we know that action does and must commence in the egg, where no previous organization of parts has existed, and therefore necessarily precedes organization ; somewhat, perhaps, as crystals are seen to gather in a fluid evaporating under the microscope. It may perhaps be replied, that the