THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 374 will resolve a venereal inflammation when mercury will; nor will they resolve the erysipelatous inflammation, although that inflammation has the very action for which we should bleed in the common inflammation, viz. dilatation of vessels. However, these means may, in some sense, he reckoned direct, for whatever will produce the action of contraction in the vessels is counteracting the action of dilatation. Lessening the power of action belohging to any disposition can only lessen or protract the effects, which, however, will be of singular service, as less mischief will be done, and it will often give the disposition time to wear itself out. Means employed on this principle should be such as give the feel of weakness to the constitution, which will affect the part, and will make the vessels contract; but this practice should not be carried so far as to produce the sense of too much weakness, for then the heart acts with great force, and the arteries dilate. Bleeding then, as a general principle, is to be put in practice, but this must be done with judgment, for I conceive the effects of bleeding to be very extensive. Besides, the loss of any quantity of blood being uni- versally felt, in proportion to the quantity lost, a universal ahirm is ex- cited, and a greater contraction of the vessels ensues, than simply in proportion to this quantity, in consequence, as it would appear, of a sympathetic affection with the part bleeding". Too much blood in an inflammation is a load upon the actions of the circulation. Too little produces debility and irritability, because there is a loss of powers, with an increased action to keep up, which is now’ not supported. It would seem that violent actions of a strong arterial sy- stem required less blood than even the natural actions, and even less still than a weak or irritable system ; from whence we must sec that bleeding can either relieve inflammatory action or increase it, and therefore is not to be used at random. As many patients that seem to require bleediug have been already bled, it may not be improper to inquire how they bear, or are affected by bleeding, for certainly all constitutions (independently of every other circumstance,) do not bear this evacuation equally, and it is probable that its effects on inflammation may be nearly in the same proportion; if so, it becomes a very useful caution; for although the loss of blood may, as a general principle, be set down as a wcakencr, and probably [This effect is with more probability to be ascribed to the approach of the state of syncope, which state, it may be observed, is often signally beneficial in the incipient stages of inflammation ; not merely by its tendency “to lessen and protract the effects,” till by cutting short and at once removing the diseased action. The dangers or ill effects i,l blood letting lie principally on the side of delay and too frequent repetition, and Less in having vigorous recourse to this remedy in the first instance.)