GRANULATIONS. 497 chanical cause, when they are formed on parts naturally fixed, such as bone; for instance, the skull, the bone of the shin, &c., for there the granulations cannot greatly contract*. In cases where there has been a loss of substance, making a hollow sore, and the contraction has begun and advanced pretty far before the granulations have had time to rise as high as the skin, in such cases the edges of the skin are generally drawn down and tucked in by it, in the hollow direction of the surface of the sore. If it is a cavity or abscess which is granulating, with only a small opening, as in many that have not been freely opened, the whole cir- cumference contracts, like the bladder of urine, till little or no cavity is left; and if any cavity is remaining when they cannot contract any further, they unite with the opposite granulations in the manner above described. 4 his contraction in the granulations continues till the whole is healed, or skinned over; but their greatest power is at the beginning, at least their greatest effect is at the beginning, one cause of which is that the resistance to their contraction in the surrounding parts is then least. I he contractile power can be assisted by art, which is a further proof that there is a resistance to be overcome. The art generally made use of is that of bandages, which tend to push, draw, or keep the skin near to the sore which is healing; but this assistance need not be given, or is at least not so necessary, till the granulations are formed, and the contractile power has taken place: however, it may not be amiss to practice it from the very beginning, as by bringing the parts near to their natural position the adhesive inflammation will fix them there; they will therefore not recede so much afterwards, and there will be less ne- cessity for the contractile powers of the granulations. Besides the contractile powers of the granulations, there is also a si- milar poiver in the surrounding edge of the cicatrizing skin, which as- sists the contraction of the granulations, and is generally more consi- derable than that of the granulations themselves, drawing the mouth of the wound together like a purse; this is frequently so great as to occa- sion the skin to grasp the granulations which rise above the surface and is very visible in sugar-loaf stumps, where the projection of the sore is to be considered as above the level of the skin. This contractile power of the skin is confined principally to the very edge where it is cicatriz- ing, and I believe is in those very granulations which have already cica- trized ; for the natural or original skin surrounding this edge does not * This observation should direct skin as possible. us, in operations on those parts, to save as much VOL. hi. 2 K