254 UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. If the divided parts are allowed to remain till the mouths of the di- vided vessels are entirely shut, inflammation will inevitably follow, and will furnish the same materials for union which are contained in extra- vasated blood, by throwing out the coagulated lymph; so that union may still take place, though some time later after the division of the parts. This inflammation I have called the adhesive; and the inflam- mation that precedes suppuration I have called the suppurative inflam- mation3. If the parts, however, continue too long asunder, suppuration must follow, and pus is unfriendly to union. We may here observe, that suppuration takes place on exposed surfaces with a much less de- gree of inflammation and in much less time than on those which are not exposed, and from their not being opposed by living surfaces, which tend to bring on the adhesive state, they continue it much longer. Whether this coagulating lymph issues from the half-closed mouths of the vessels which were cut, or from the surface of the opened cells, is not easily determined, but most probably it is from the latterb, as it 3 [It is now generally considered that union by the first intention and adhesive in- flammation are essentially the same processes, modified by the degree of inflammation. Union by the first intention is uniformly attended with some degree of pain and swell- ing, together with increased heat and vascularity, which, taken conjointly, constitute the definition of inflammation. I may observe, that Mr. Hunter's language is doubly objectionable: first, because it implies two kinds of inflammation, instead of two stages of the same kind ; for suppu- ration is invariably preceded by adhesion, or the effusion of coagulable lymph; while, on the other hand, adhesion may always be converted into suppuration by simply in- creasing the irritation: secondly, because the word termination implies that the inflam- mation ceases upon the occurrence of adhesion, suppuration, or mortification, which is by no means true in all cases, nor to the full import of the word in any case. Practi- cally speaking, the language certainly expresses an important fact, which is, that the occurrence of either of these phenomena greatly mitigates the inflammatory action.] b [This opinion is rendered probable from the analogy which exists between the cel- lular and serous structures. There cannot be any doubt, in rgspect of the latter, that the same vessels are capable of secreting a simple healthy scrum, a turbid unhealthy serum, serum and lymph, lymph mixed with pus, or pure pus corresponding with the degrees of inflammation present, or irritation applied; but if this may happen to the pleura or peritoneum, why not also to the cellular membrane ? which is similar in struc- ture and function, and each cellule of which may he regarded as a small serous bag, in which all the phenomena of serous membranes are represented in miniature. Precisely the same phenomena are exhibited by serous membranes, cellular tissue, and recent wounds, under inflammation, and therefore it is probable that the lymph which in the two former cases is poured out without breach of surface, is also poured out from the same class of vessels in the latter case. The centre of a common phlegmon contains pus, because there the inflammation is greatest: the areola external to this is consolidated by the effusion of lymph; and still beyond this there is effusion of serum, producing simple (edema—exactly corresponding to the exudation, 1. of scrum, 2. of coagulable lymph, and 3. of pus, from the surfaces of a recent wound or from the superficies of a serous membrane which has been irritated.]