fundamental principles of inflammation. 297 often a mode of cure, since it frequently produces a resolution of indu- rated parts, by changing the diseased action into a salutary one, if ca- pable of resolution. By these extensive powers inflammation becomes the first principle in surgery. In one point of view it may be considered as a disease in itself, where it takes place without any visible cause, and it may be looked upon as an increase of the mischief when it is a consequence of some injur}'; but in either case it is a sign of powers, and of necessary powers : for if a part under the influence of such irritation as should naturally excite inflammation had either no powers, or no disposition to exert them, the consequences would be much worse, for mortification would probably take place. I intend at present to consider the most common causes and effects of inflammation, together with the end pro- posed by nature in producing it, and the use to which it can be applied in surgery. It becomes therefore necessary, first, to begin with describ- ing its most simple forms, together with its general effects, and then to particularize as I proceed. Inflammation has several well-marked local peculiarities by which it is distinguished. I shall call by the name of inflammation whatever produces the following local effects, viz. pain, swelling, and redness, in a given time, and these dependent on, or the effects of, one immediate cause. Inflammation appears capable of arising from three causes, which may be called remote. First, from some accidental force applied to a part, mjiking a wound or bruise which cannot recover itself unless by inflam- mation. Such violence at least is naturally capable of exciting it. Secondly, from some irritation which does not destroy the texture of parts, but simply the natural actions, as many irritations, such as pres- sure, friction, heat, cold, blisters, pungent applications, and often fevers of every kind. Thirdly, from a particular disposition in parts them- selves, as boils arising spontaneously, without the constitution having been preconcerned; so little so, as to have given the idea that such in- flammations were healthy. Each of these will be of a kind peculiar to the constitution ; but from whatever cause inflammation arises, it ap- pears to be nearly the same in all, for in all it is an effect intended to bring about a reinstatement of the parts nearly to their natural functions. Inflammation may first be divided into two kinds as first principles, viz. the healthy and the unhealthy. The healthy probably consists only of one kind, not being divisible but into its different stages, and being that which will always attend a healthy constitution or part, is rather to be considered as a restorative action than a diseased one, and would rather appear to be an effect of a stimulus than an irritation. The unhealthy