TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 381 afraid, left in the dark respecting the pulse. Perhaps, bleeding at first with caution, and judging from the blood and its effects upon the other symptoms, is the only criterion we can go by. The kind of constitution will make a material difference, whether ro- bust or delicate. The mode of life will also make a material difference, whether [the patient is] accustomed to considerable exercise, and can bear it with ease. Constitutions so habituated will bear bleeding freely ; but those with contrary habits will not. The sex will likewise make a difference, although the mode of life will increase that difference : therefore men will bear bleeding better than women. Even age makes a material differ- ence, the young being able to lose more blood than the old, for the ves- sels of the old are not able to adapt themselves so readily to the decreased quantity; it even should not be taken away so quickly, and probably the constitution may in some degree have lost the habit of malting blood, since it has lost the necessity. The urine will throw some light on the disease. If high-coloured, and not much in quantity, it may be presumed, with the other sym- ptoms, that bleeding will be of singular service ; hut if pale and a good deal of it, although the other indications are in favour of bleeding, yet it may be necessary to do it with caution. However, bleeding should in all cases be performed with great cau- tion, more particularly at first, and no more taken than appears to be really necessary. It should only be done to ease the constitution or the part, and rather lower it where the constitution can bear it; but if the constitution is already below or brought below a certain point, or gives the signs of it from the situation of the disease, then an irritable habit takes place, which is an increased disposition to act without the power to act with. This of itself becomes a cause of the continuance of the original disposition, and therefore will admit neither of resolution nor suppuration, but continue in a state of inflammation, which is a much worse disease than the former. Upon any other principle than those above mentioned I cannot see why bleeding should have such effects in inflammation as it sometimes has. If considered in a mechanical light, as simply lessening the quan- tity of blood, it cannot account for it; because the removal of any na- tural mechanical power can never remove a cause which neither took its rise from, nor is supported by it. How'evcr, in this light it may be of some service; because all the actions relative to the blood’s motion will be performed with more ease to the solids when the quantity is well proportioned. It is probably from this connexion betw'cen the solids and fluids, that