177 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. jition, therefore, of the heart is chiefly connected with that of the lungs; aand when it is united with the body at large, it is because tlie lungs are also so disposed. We must suppose that these two have a relation :to each other. A heart is composed of an auricle and ventricle, and it is the ventricle jvwhich sends the blood through its course in the circulation ; so that, :from what has been said, it must appear that the ventricle is the true hheart, the other parts having only secondary uses. As the ventricle is tthe part which propels the blood to the different parts of the body, its muscular power must be adequate to that purpose, and therefore it has a very strong muscular coat. Much more pains than were necessary ' have been taken to dissect and describe the course and arrangement of the muscular fibres of the heart, as if the knowledge of the course of its fibres could in the least account fox its action. But as the heart can, in its contracted state, almost throw out its whole contents, to pro- duce this effect its fibres must pass obliquely. Its red colour arises probably from its being at the fountain head of • the circulation, for those animals that have but little red blood, have it ■ only in those parts near the heart; and the heart being nearest to its own powers, receives the blood before the vessels can so act as to dis- pose of the red blood, or allow of a kind of separation by distance; its t constant action, too, renders it more red, as happens in other muscles. The ventricles in the quadruped, bird, and amphibia, are called right and left, and this accords very well with the situation in such animals; but where there is only one ventricle, and that in some acting the part of the right, as in fish, and in others acting the part of the left, as in the snail, we ought to have some term expressive of their immediate ■ use, and such as would apply to all animals that have such a viscus". The auricles of the heart are to be considered only as reservoirs for ' the blood, to be ready to supply the ventricles ; for an auricle is not to be found in all the animals which have a ventricle ; nor does the number [ of auricles always correspond to that of the ventricles. Where the veins i) entering into the heart are small, in comparison to the quantity of blood | which is wanted in the ventricles, there we have an auricle; but where the veins near to the heart are large, there is no auricle, as in the lob- j-ster, and generally in insects. In the snail, where the veins in common [The epithets pulmonary and systemic sufficicntlv express this difference of | function.] VOL. hi. v