GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 56 I he globules forming this wheyish appearance are not of the same specific gravity in every case ; for though they always, I believe, swim on the serum, and often on water, yet they sometimes sink in water. The white cream that swims on the top of the serum I believe to be formed after the serum is separated from the mass, for if it existed as such prior to this, it would be retained in the coagulum, as the red globules are, which is not the fact, and therefore it does not exist in the blood while circulating. I bled a little woman who seemed half an idiot, and was big with child : this happened in the afternoon, about three or four hours after she had eaten some veal cutlets. The day following I went to see the blood, and found the serum of a milky white, with a white pellicle swim- ming at the top like cream. I bled a lady in the arm, who was six months gone with child. It was about two o’clock in the forenoon: she had only eaten a dry toast and drank a cup of chocolate for break- fast, about ten o’clock, which was four hours before she was bled. On seeing the blood the next day, I found it inflamed rather more than is common in women who are pregnant, and I also found a thin white scum on the top of the serum : this scum I examined iu the microscope, and found it to be globular. I diluted it with water, and found the globules did not dissolve as the red globules do. I put some of them into water, and found that they rose to the top, but not so fast as ip the serum. About six days after I bled the same lady again, after she had eaten the same kiud of breakfast, and about the same interval of time from it. The blood was still sizy, but the serum had no white appear- ance at the top. I examined the wheyish serum taken from the blood of a man at St. George’s Hospital, who had received a severe blow on the head, which had stunned him, but had produced no bad symptoms. In this serum. meal.” (Op. cit., p. 120.) The same appearance had also frequently been observed in the serum of animals that arc very fat. Dr. l’rout regards the fatty matter of chyle as incipient albumen. From some cause therefore, such as the absorption of a peculiarly rich chyle after a full meal, or the sudden and temporary increase in the actiou of the absorbents, an undue proportion of fat is absorbed and carried into the blood, where, being suspended in the serum in the form of an emulsion, it becomes visible. M. Raspail endeavours to account for this appearance upon the supposition that an acid is generated in the blood which saturates the free alkali of the serum and precipitates the albumen. The irregularity of the action of the absorbents is well exemplified by several cases recorded in the 4 th volume of the Dublin Journal of Medical and Chemical Science, in which extraordinary quantities of fatty matters were discharged by the bowels. In the Annali Universali a case is related in which thirty pounds weight of fat were dis- charged from the bowels in twenty-four hours. “ The patient nearly sunk, and In rkin hung in folds as though all his fat had been absorbed."]