407 OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. parts for such actions, without the parts themselves being either diseased or in such a state as to be similar to the destruction or alteration of their texture, this inflammation then may arise from a vast variety of causes with which we are at present totally unacquainted; nay, which we do not perhaps even suspect: and this last opinion, upon a slight view, would seem to be the most probable, because we can frequently put back these spontaneous inflammations, which would not be the case if they came on from the destruction of a part, or anything else, whose stimulus was similar to it, for no such thing can be done with wounds : if they are not soon united by the first intention, they must suppurate. However, this argument is not conclusive; for we can prevent suppura- tion in those arising from accident, by uniting them by the second in- tention, which prevents suppuration by acting as a kind of resolution. Although suppuration is often produced without much visible violence of action in the part, yet when it is a consequence of a healthy inflam- mation, we find in general that the inflammation has been violent. It [the suppurative inflammation] is always more violent than the preceding inflammation; and in such cases it would appear to be little more than an increased action, out of which is produced an entire new mode of action, and which of course destroys the first. It is from this violence that inflammation produces its effects so quickly, for the inflammation which is capable of producing quickly so great a change in the operations of the parts, as suppuration, must be violent, because it is a violence committed upon the natural actions and structure of the parts. This inflammation will also be more or less, according to the violence of the cause producing it, compared with the state of the constitution and parts affected. The inflammation which precedes suppuration is much more violent in those cases where it appears to arise spontaneously, than when it arises from any injury done by violence. A suppuration equal in quan- tity to that from an amputation of the thigh, shall have been preceded by a much greater inflammation than that which is a consequence of the amputation. This inflammation would seem to vary somewhat in its effects, accord- ing to the exertion of that power [viz. of the cause] during its progress ; for in proportion to its rapidity [of action] the cause is certainly more simple, and its termination and effects more speedy and salutary; and this idea agrees perfectly with inflammation in consequence of accidents, for here it runs through its stages more rapidly, and with less inflam- mation ; necessity appears to be the leading cause here. This seems to be the case even in those parts which have a tendency