OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 196 as to require particular attention. In many of these animals we find two systems of vessels, the arteries and veins, and most probably they exist in all of them ; there is also a third, which consists of the absorb- ents. The heart is the source of the arteries, and the termination of the veins and absorbents. The two first, depending on each other, form the circulation; and the third is essential to both, bringing the materials which are to circulate*. The arteries are to be considered as the acting part of the vascular system, since they perform a variety of actions the uses of which are very important in the animal oeconomy. They may be called universal or constitutional, for their actions are immediately productive of health or disease in the constitution; and if they could be diseased as a system, that disease would of course be universal: as their actions are expres- sive of health or disease, they become also one means of discovering either. There is no internal operation in the machine, respecting growth, natural repair, and secretion, that is not performed by them. No new part is formed, nor additional alteration made in the structure of natu- ral parts, nor repair for the loss of natural substances, either by disease or accident, but is made by the arteries, although of all these opera- tions we know nothing but from the effect produced. These operations are performed by the termination of the arteries, which may be sup- posed to be of three kinds : one may be called arterial, conveying de- bilitated blood into the veins, and through their whole length may be called arteries ; another kind consists of the separaters from the blood, performing the different secretions ; and the third contains the formers and supporters of the body : the two latter kinds I should not call ar- teries; they are the workers, or labourers*. * This system is too extensive to be described in the present work, although it will be necessary to describe one use not hitherto attributed to it, as it explains one part of my system of disease. * [The only evident termination of arteries is into capillaries, carrying red blood, which are plainly distinguishable from any other set of vessels, as well by their uni- formity of size as by the peculiarity of their mode of division and reunion. The arte- ries pursue a straight course, and up to a certain period are observed to divide and re- divide in a regular series of bifurcating divisions j the blood always flowing from trunk to branch, and the branch being uniformly found to be smaller than the trunk. After a certain period, however, the artery is observed to break abruptly into an irregular network of vessels, consisting of an intricate interlacement of capillary tubes of uniform cylindrical diameter, which divide and redivide, unite and reunite by an infinite number of anastomoses, presenting, especially in the pulmonic circulation of some of the batrachian animals, a beautiful and splendid device. The current of blood jn these vessels is probably more than twice as slow as in the smallest arteries, but in