OF TIIE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 437 delusive. This symptom is common to them all [viz. all the constitu- tional affections] ; it is frequently a consequence of their being violent, or carried to considerable length in their several kinds; often arising in consequence of compound fractures, amputation of the lower extremities, injuries done to joints, brain, etc., but not so often attending the hectic, although it is often a symptom of dissolution. We have agues also from many diseases of parts, more especially of the liver, as also of the spleen, and from induration of the mesenteric glands'*. I he following cases are remarkable instances of well-marked consti- tutional diseases from local irritation, where the constitution took on a. particular action, to which it had a strong tendency. A gentleman had a very bad fistula in perimeo from a stricture, and when the water did not come freely an inflammation in the part and scrotum was produced, and then he had an ague, which was relieved for a time by the bark.. I wo children had an ague from worms, which was not in the least re- lieved by the hark, hut by destroying the worms they were cured. As these diseases which I have brought into this class are of such \arious kinds, each must be taken up apart, and treated accordingly ; but they are such as yield very little to medicine, for in some the con- stitutional disease is formed, and does not require the presence of the local disease to keep it up, as in the tetanus; and in others, the local disease being still in force, it is not to be expected that the constitutional aflection is to be entirely relieved, although in some degree it may. In those which form a regular constitutional disease, such as an ague, al- though the local diseases may still exist in full force, yet some relief may be expected; the bark is to be administered, although not with a view to cure, as the immediate cause still exists ; but bark will in some lessen that susceptibility in the constitution, and may cure, at least for a time, as I have seen in agues arising from the fistula in perimeo. But the susceptibility in the two children cited above was so strong for such a disease, that the bark was not sufficient; and therefore, when the local cause is not known, and when the common remedies for such effects do not cure them, some local disease should be suspected. We see often such symptoms arising from diseases of the liver, and the bark curing this symptom, yet the liver shall go on with its disease, and pro. bably faster, as 1 believe bark is not a proper medicine for diseases of this vise us, such complaints of the liver have been too often attributed to the curing of the ague improperly by bark. St. Vitus's dance and many other involuntary actions have arisen from the same cause ; such • | I licse conditions of the liver and spleen are rather to be regarded as effects than ns causes of the ague.]