OF PUS. 457 tailed in question by the microscopical observations of Messieurs Hodgkin and Lister, who found that the particles above mentioned possessed the utmost variety in size as well as in external configuration. According to Schwilgue pus consists of albumen in a particular state, extractive mat- ter which appears to have no analogue in the healthy state, fatty matter, soda, muriate of soda, phosphate of lime, and other salts. According to some the particles of pus are merely the globules of the blood modified in size and colour, (Gendrin, ii. 479 ; Andral, Anat. Path., i. 389,) while by others they are regarded as the coagulable lymph exist- ing in a very minute state of division and suspended in the serum of the blood, (Babing- ton, Med.-Chir. Tr., xvi. p. 305,) an idea which agrees pretty nearly with that of Mr. Hunter, who says that “ this matter (i. e. the matter which accompanies and precedes the suppurative stage) is a remove further from the nature of the blood, and becomes more and more of the nature of the pus.” Pus from mucous membranes is said to con- tain a greater quantity ot albumen than usual; from bone a greater quantity of the phos- phates and muriates of lime ; from the inflammation of gout a larger proportion of the carbonates and phosphates, and perhaps of the urate of lime j and from scrofulous ab- scesses a greater relative proportion of soda and the muriate of soda : but, as Mr. Hunter has justly remarked, such tacts, even if well established, are of little real value. 1 he formation of pus was first philosophically classed by Mr. Hunter with the other secretions, and shown to be liable to all those modifications to which the secretions in general are subject from constitutional and local causes. M. Gendrin, in his elaborate work on inflammation, has admitted in general terms the correctness of this doctrine, and yet, inconsistently enough, has attempted to establish, not only the identity of the pus and blood globules, and their gradual metamorphosis intra et extra vascula into pus, but also the transformation of the coagulable products of inflammation after their effu- sion, so as to revive in almost direct terms the ancient doctrine on this subject, of the gradual melting down of the textures. If we examine, he says, a portion of cellular tissue under the microscope, infiltrated with a mixture of bloody serum and pus, we s hal observe at the point furthest from the seat of suppuration a simple clear fluid, entirely devoid of globules; a little nearer and we shall perceive globules exactly resembling those of the blood ; these, as we approach the seat of suppuration, lose a little of their transparency and deprive themselves of their external envelopes, which hang in strice on their surfaces; still nearer they have a semi-opaque character and become yellow- ish ; and finally they assume the genuine characters of pus. He has been able, he says, to trace these progressive mutations not only in the proper vessels, until it finally exuded on the surface, but also in all the coagulable fluids effused in inflammation, and cites several experiments to this purpose. (Op. cit. ii. 471 et seq. (1447.)) It does not appear to me, however, that the experiments which he has detailed at all warrant the conclusion which he has drawn from them, especially when we take into our consideration the following circumstances; 1. that the pus globules are nearly twice as large as those of the blood, and very irregular in size as well as figure; 2. that they display no organizable faculty; 3. that the theory assigns two causes, one chemical and the other vital, for the formation of pus (1401.), as well as two substances, one globular and the other not so, from which it is formed ; and 4. that it is not supported by any analogy in regard to the secretions generally, nor account for the influence which the constitution exercises in modifying the time and mode of suppuration, or the superad- dition of specific qualities to the pus. 1 lie occurrence ofpurulent deposits, &e. in vascular coagula, unconnected with the sur- rounding solids, has been already adverted to (p. 269, note), and has been attempted to he explained by M. Andral by comparing them to the lowest order of animated beings, winch, antecedent to any traceable organization, arc capable of vital acts and of develop- ing an organization by their own innate forces, similar to embryonic germs. Nay, lie