OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM- 181 , i to be moved and the frequency of the stroke it has to make ; for when the quantity of blood is decreased, the frequency of the stroke must be in- i creased; and as a proof of this we find when an animal loses a consi- (derable quantity of blood, the heart increases in its frequency of stroke, ; as also in its violence. That it principally bears proportion to the quantity of blood is evident; for the right ventricle is equal in size 1 to the left, if not larger, although it sends its blood to the lungs only, ■ which are infinitely small when compared with the whole body; and i i the hearts of those animals which have but one ventricle, as fish for : instance, which is similar in use to our right, are perhaps made as j! large in proportion to the size of the body as both ventricles in the quadruped3. The strength of a heart is commonly, if not always, in proportion to ; the size of the parts to which the blood is carried and the velocity with which it is propelled; which becomes a collateral proof that it is a universal agent in the circulation. In the complete heart this is not i t equal in every part of the same heart; the right ventricle being much weaker than the left, but still in the above proportions. The propor- J1 tion between the two will be best known by ascertaining the differ- i ence in the strength of the two arteries, and this again will differ ; according to the whole parts the blood is sent to by the heart. In the : fish, for instance, it is only necessary it should bear the proportion in : strength to the whole fish that our right ventricle bears to our lungs, which is not in the least equal to that of the left ventricle ; or, in other words, its strength should be commensurate with the size of the lungs. However, it is most probable that the right ventricle in the quadruped . is stronger than in this proportion, because it is obliged to move a larger quantity of blood than is contained in any other part of the body of the ; ■ same size, and with greater velocity: in the double heart, therefore, i such as the human, the two cavities are not of equal strength, each 1 being nearly in proportion to the size of the parts, or rather to the di- stance the blood is to go ; the right ventricle only throwing it into the lungs, the left into the body. As a proof of this doctrine, we find that a [The heart in animals of large dimensions is singularly small as compared with the bulk of the whole body, at the same time that its action is remarkably slow. In the foetus, on the contrary, the heart is proportionably large, and its action in the same degree rapid. It would appear from the investigations of Treviranus, that the size of the heart as compared with the whole body decreases in proportion as the animal de- scends in the zoological scale. The following were the respective weights of the heart in different animals: mammalia, to birds, ^ to -p^; amphibia, to fishes, -,Ji 0 to rJ 0. The rate of pulsation seems to diminish nearly in the same pro- portion as the size.]