OF PUS, 455 changes its disposition and becomes inflamed, the matter now produced from it, though there be no extravasated blood or dead solids, becomes much sooner putrid than that which was discharged before this altera- tion of disposition, and will become much more irritating, as has already- been observed. From the above-mentioned considerations we can explain why the dis- charge in many specific diseases, although not in all, is so much more offensive than in common sores; for in these cases it is commonly not true pus, and is generally mixed with blood. In the same manner, likewise, where there are diseased bones, or other extraneous bodies which excite irritation, sometimes even to so great a degree as to cause the vessels to bleed, and often wounding the vessels of the part, the matter is always found to be very offensive, one mark (although not commonly accounted for) of a diseased bone. Our silver probes are rendered almost black when introduced into the discharge of an unhealthy sore ; preparations of lead are the same, when applied to such matter: it even dissolves animal substance. If, for in- stance, a fresh wound has its lips brought together and held there with sticking-plaster spread upon leather, we shall find, if the wound sup- purates, that the parts of the strips of leather going over the wound will be between the first and second dressing quite dissolved, dividing the strips into their two ends; and the plaster, which commonly has lead in it, shall become black where it has come in contact with this matter. This change in the colour of metals is also produced by eggs when not perfectly fresh, although not become putrid, and probably this property is assisted by the boiling or roasting. Dr. Crawford, in his experiments on the matter of cancers and animal hepatic air [sulphuretted hydrogen], attributes the dissolution of the metals to that air*. §.4. Of the Use of Pus. 1'he final intention of this secretion of matter is, I believe, not yet understood, although almost every one thinks himself able to assign one; and various are the uses attributed to it. It is by some supposed to carry oft humours from the constitution. It is sometimes supposed to be a constitutional disease changed into a local one, and so discharged or thrown out of the body, either in form of, or with the pus, as in those cases to be called critical abscesses; but even those who see this final intention are very ready to overturn it, by supposing that this matter is l’liilos. Transact., vol. Ixxx. year 1790, part '2nd. p. 385.