280 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. such constitutions, which include accidents or violence of all kinds; for they run into too violent action which is not of a salutary kind, and therefore may be called unnatural diseased action. When a wound is made in a person of a weak habit there is a great backwardness in the two cut surfaces to unite by the first intention, therefore inflammation takes place if there be strength of constitution to produce it, which is not always the case, so that in such habits inflam- mation is more likely to be a consequence) but this does not arise from a greater readiness to inflammation in the habit, but from a wrant of power and disposition to heal, which renders inflammation necessary. However, in this case the want of powers or disposition to unite may partly depend upon a different principle from that of weak parts or solids : it is probable that the blood of people of weak habits is weak in its living principle, which it therefore very soon loses upon extrai-asa* tion, so as to become unfit for a bond of union, by which it degenerates into an extraneous body, and therefore the suppurative inflammation must Like place if there be strength to produce it. In weak habits and diseased parts inflammation is slow in any of its salutary effects, and is hardly capable of either producing the adhesive or suppurative inflammation. If they should take place, it is but im- perfectly, and the inflamed parts surrounding the suppurative surfaces are hardly capable of resolution, but continue inflamed ; we even find in many constitutions, where the animal powers are very much weak- ened, that, instead of their readily running into inflammation, it is hardly possible to promote it even from a breach of continuity in the solids, which in most other cases is surest of being followed by inflammation : such constitutions are in general those which are dropsical. I have seen several cases where the power has been so weak that the wound, after tapping, has not united by the first intention, nor has even acquired the adhesive state of inflammation, and has admitted water to pass through it from the abdomen for several weeks without the peritoneal inflam- mation being excited. In the same dropsical habits I have seen scari- fications in the legs or feet not inflame, so that the cells were not united but continued to discharge the water for many weeks. In such cases of extreme weakness this total want of inflammation would appear to be a salutary effect; for in many dropsical cases, where the parts have powers to inflame, but not sufficient to go through the different stages of the inflammation, and at last resolve as in healthy constitutions, the inflammation generally produces a total loss of animal powers and the part mortifies, which often produces death in the whole, so that in such gases the parts only act to destroy themselves*. As a further proof * Vide paper on the recovery of drowned people, in Vol. IV.