the ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION; 349 habit it depends on an action of the inflammation itself, but in the strong it depends on a state in which the parts are left to separate the cuticle. This separation arises, I apprehend, from a degree of weakness ap- proaching to a kind of death in the connexion between the cuticle and cutis, from life being in this part naturally very weak. In the begin- ning of mortification it is produced; in the cedematous and erysipelatous inflammations it is greatest, and in putrefaction of dead bodies it is the first operation. I suspect too that a blistering plaster, hot water, &c. only kill the uniting parts, by which means an irritation is produced in the cutis, and the extravasation is according to that irritation. The connexion of the cuticle is more or less destroyed in every in- flammation of the skin, for we seldom see an inflammation attack the skin but the cuticle comes off sooner or later. We generally observe it peeling off in flakes, after inflammation has subsided, and it begins near- est the point of inflammation*. ยง.6. Of the Uniting Medium in Inflammations. Every new substance that is formed is either for a salutary purpose, or it is diseased. The first consists either of adhesions or granulations, whether with the first or second intention; and these may be considered as a revival of the natural principles, and powers of growth, whereas I diseased substances are, as it were, monsters. In the adhesive inflammation, the vessels being enlarged, as above described, similar to what they are in the young subject, begin to sepa- rate from the mass some portion of the coagulating lymph, with some serum, and also red globules, and throw it out on the internal surface, probably through the exhaling vessels, or perhaps open new ones, and .cover the sides of those cells, which easily unite with the opposite, with which they are in contact, forming the first progress of adhesions. That this is really the case, and that this effect has taken place in consequence of inflammation, is evident from the following observations. In all large cavities where we can make our observations with certainty, when in the state of inflammation, we find diffused over the sides, or through * It may be observed, that when an inflammation attacks the finger-ends or toes, so as to produce suppuration either in the substance of these parts, although not larger than a pimple, or only on the surface of the cutis, an extensive separation of the cuticle takes place, not entirely from the inflammation, but assisted by it. This is owing, prin- cipally, to the cuticle in such places not giving way, being there strong, so that a seem- ing abscess almost occupies the whole finger, &c. This should he opened early to prevent this separation as much as possible, or to prevent the separation from extend- ing too far.