216 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. sufficient to nourish what is already formed. Perhaps it does not even continue to do so much ; for it is not impossible that the body may begin to decline from the moment it ceases to grow, the heart having pushed the growth of the body even beyond its own powers to preserve it in that state. §. 9. Of the Action of the Arteries, and the Velocity of the Blood’s Motion. Arteries, during their diastole, which arises from an increased quan- tity of blood being thrown into them, increase much more in length than width, being thrown into a serpentine course ; therefore, instead of the term diastole, it should rather be called the elongated state. It is, however, the increased diameter that becomes sensible to the touch2. " [The question of the immediate cause of the impression of the pulse has been a subject of considerable dispute, respecting which modern physiologists are by no means perfectly agreed, particularly as to the degree which the vessel enlarges or lengthens at each systole of the heart. The diametrical enlargement of the artery was altogether denied by Parry, Laennec, and Bichat j but not apparently with good reason, for it is very visible in the immediate vicinity of the heart in several reptiles. Haller observed it in the chick, Majcndie and Hastings in the thoracic aorta of the horse, and Meckel and Tiedemann in the smaller arteries. The reason why it is not generally more visible appears to me to be this. The carotid artery of an animal, measuring or ■ffo, of an inch in diameter, being exposed for six inches, the elongation which this length of vessel is supposed to undergo at each contraction of the ventricle is estimated at -J, > or xrnr> °* an *>ich; so that, supposing the diametrical enlargement to take place only in the same proportion, it wrould not amount to more than y-fo part of an inch, which it would be difficult under any circumstances to see, and still more difficult in a unilateral aspect of the vessel. When, however, we further reflect that the time required for the transmission of a wave of blood from the heart to the most remote part of the body does not exceed a half second, and then calculate the extreme velocity with which this wave passes over a few inches of vessel, we shall not be surprised at not being able to perceive it. Besides, the mere fact of exposing a vessel is sufficient of itself to induce the contraction of its coats, so as completely to obliterate the tube ; from all which cir- cumstances I conclude that very little reliance can be placed On these kinds of obser- vations. The experiments of Poiseuille, which seemed to evince that an actual enlarge- ment took place, arc not perfectly conclusive. The elongation of an artery is barely appreciable in an undisturbed state of the circulation, but may be rendered distinctly visible by holding the nostrils of an ass (whose carotids have previously been exposed) until the respiration becomes laborious. The artery may now be observed to leap from its bed, and to become elongated and tortuous at each stroke of the ventricle; effects which may be imitated in the dead body, or on dead tubes, by forcible injections, and which are also observed to occur naturally in many parts subject to violent periodical excitements, as the testicle and uterus. It has been observed, however, that a tangible shock may be conveyed through a fluid