GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF TIIE BLOOD. 117 part of the body in which it exists, and acts for this part, and probably for this part alone. The whole, taken together, hardly makes a whole, • so as to constitute wrhat might be called an organ, the action of which •is always for some other purpose than itself: but this is not the case with the brain. The brain is a mass of this matter, not diffused through anything for the purpose of that thing, but constituting an organ in itself, the actions of which are for other purposes, viz. receiving, by means of the nerves, the vast variety of actions in the diffused materia vitae which arise from impression and habit, combining these, and disti- nguishing from what part they come. The whole of these actions form • the mind, and, according to the result, react so as to impress more or dess of the materia vitae of the body in return, producing in such parts consequent actions. The brain, then, depends upon the body for its impression, which is sensation, and the consequent action is that of the mind ; and the body depends upon the consequence of this intelli- .gence, or effect of this mind, called the will, to impress it to action; but such [sensation and action] are not spent upon itself, but are for other purposes, and are called voluntary. But mere composition of matter does not give life ; for the dead body has all the composition it ever had. Life is a property we do not under- • stand ; we can only see the necessary leading steps towards it. If nerves, either of themselves or from their connexion with the brain, gave vitality to our solids, how should a solid continue life after a nerve is destroyed ? or, still more, when paralytic ? for the part continues to be nourished, although not to the same full health as where voluntary action exists : and this nourishment is the blood ; for deprive it of the blood, and it mortifies. The uterus, in the time of pregnancy, increases in substance and size, probably fifty times beyond what it naturally is; and this increase is made up of living animal matter, which is capable of action within itself. I think we may suppose its action more than double; for the action of every individual part of this viscus, at this period, is much increased, even beyond its increase of size, and yet we find that the nerves of this part are not in the smallest degree increased. This shows that the nerves and brain have nothing to do with the actions of a part, -while the vessels whose uses are evident increase in proportion to the increased size : if the same had taken place with the nerves, we should have rea- soned from analogy. It is probably impossible to say where the living principle first begins in the blood; whether in the chyle itself, or not till that fluid mixes with the other blood, and receives its influence from the lungs. I am, however, rather inclined to think that the chyle is itself alive; for we find it coagulates when extravasated ; it has the