532 THE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. iiju is much more frequent, attended with increased vascularity at first, but as the brain becomes softened, with a red, yellowish, or whitish colour, marking three several kinds of mollescence, depending on the effusion of blood, pus, or serum. There seems reason, however, for believing that this pulpy disorganization of the brain may take place independently of inflammation. The most remarkable circumstance connected with this tissue is the occurrence of large chronic abscesses, generally inclosed in thick cysts, and unattended with any symptoms during life. These I have known to occupy one entire hemisphere of the brain. Ulceration sometimes occurs towards the surface of the convolutions, and by some the diffluent state of the brain before spoken of is thought to resemble mortification. 2. It has been before stated that all the functions of a part are modified by inflam- mation ; of these, however, two only are susceptible of examination, viz. secretion, in- cluding the inflammatory effusions, and nutrition : the former of these has been already considered, and it only remains to make a few observations respecting the latter. The effects of inflammation as regards nutrition may be divided into two primary classes, including, in the first place, those which have respect to the physical properties of parts; and, in the second place, those which have more immediate reference to their organical constitution. These, it must be obvious, often run up into each other, so as to render any satisfactory classification of the phenomena impracticable. The primary effects of inflammation, or those which regard the physical properties of parts, are several. Induration, as regards the soft parts, is one of the most universal effects of inflamma- tion, and may be said to depend on the interstitial deposition of lymph in the inter- spaces of the natural organization, which in process of time becomes converted into the same nature as the part itself. These effects are more or less permanent in different cases. In general, parts are found to revert to their former state upon the subsidence of the inflammation; but in other cases this does not happen, in consequence it may be presumed of the normal organization of the part being permanently injured; as, for in- stance, in the iris, which is often irretrievably destroyed by acute iritis. Instances of induration remaining, after the augmentation of bulk has subsided, occur in the liver, brain, muscles, spleen, and particularly in the eburnation of the articular extremities of bones from which the cartilages have been denuded. Softening also is a very frequent consequence of inflammation, particularly of the cel- lular membrane, as is evinced in the diminished cohesion of parenchymatous organs, and the weakened attachment of membranous expansions to the parts which they cover. The harder textures, as bone, tendon, cartilage, &c., are most frequently softened by inflammation, in the same manner as the softer textures are most frequently hardened; but these effects are sometimes reversed. Softening has been ascribed to the infiltra- tion of serum and pus disintegrating the healthy organization, but as such effusions are not always, or even generally, attended with this consequence, it is probably referrible to some peculiar modification of the nutritive function, especially as this is known to be sufficient of itself to produce the effect independently of inflammatory action. The most remarkable examples of softening occur in the lungs, spleen, mucous membranes of the stomach and bowels, and in the brain and spinal marrow. The original organ- ization in such cases is often irrecoverably destroyed. Fragility must not be confounded with softening, although it is often found associated with it. An increased lacerability of parts is, upon the w hole, much more general than softening, and occurs under both the conditions which have previously been considered. It is seen in the inflamed and hepatized lung, as well as in the common cellular mem- brane which has besn hardened by the infiltration of recent lymph.