GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 3G was formed, it would retard the cooling of the fresh blood; but it rather cooled faster, which I imputed to the coagulated blood parting with its heat slower than the fluid blood. ITtese experiments I have repeated several times, with nearly the same effect. I then conceived the expe- riment would be more conclusive if I could get blood in a fluid state which was naturally of the heat of the atmosphere, for which purpose I took the blood of turtles. A healthy turtle was kept in a room all night, the floor of which was about 64° and the atmosphere 65°. In the morning the heat was nearly the same. The thermometer was introduced into the anus, and the heat of that part was 64°. The animal being suspended by the hind legs, the head was cut off at once, and the blood caught in a bason ; the blood while flowing was 65°, and when collected was G6°, but fell to 65° while coagulating, which it did very slowly : it remained at 65°, and when coagulated was still 65°. These experiments had been made several times, but not with that nice accuracy which was obtained by causing all the heats to correspond exactly; yet, as they were all known and marked down, if any heat had been produced upon coagulation its exact quantity would have been ascertained in each; and, indeed, in some it seemed to cool, but in none it became warmer. From these experiments, I should say that in the coagulation of the blood no heat is formed8. Coagulated blood is an inorganized animal substance. When the blood is thinly spread before coagulation, or oozes out on surfaces, (in which act it immediately coagulates,) and coagulates in that form, it may then be said to form an inorganized membrane, of which there are many; and organization is seemingly so simple in many (which we * [The change in the capacity of bodies for heat depends on the change of their densities; but no change takes place in the sum of the densities of the constituents of the blood during, or as the effect of, coagulation, for what the fibrin gains in specific weight is exactly balanced by what is lost by the serum; and were this otherwise, we should still not expect any appreciable degree of heat to be evolved, when we reflect on the ex- tremely small proportion which the fibrin bears to the whole mass of the blood, and that it is this principle alone which undergoes coagulation. The opinion in the text has, nevertheless, been controverted by several experimentalists. Fourcroy, in one instance, observed the heat to rise during coagulation from 20° to 25° Cent, or nearly 11° Fahr. (Ann. de Chimie, vii. 147.) Dr. Gordon also, in some experiments, estimated the rise to be as much as from 6° to 12°. (Ann. of Phil., iv. 139.) And Dr. Scudamore was led to a similar conclusion, viz. “ that a slight evolution of heat takes place during the coagu- lation of the blood." (Op. cit., p. 75.) I am of opinion, however, that the experiments of Davy on the blood of sharks and turtles, and those of Thackrah on warm-blooded animals, are more to be depended on, and these fully confirm the accuracy of Mr. Hun- ter’s observations. (Thackrah, p. 60.) Raspail has even gone into the opposite opinion, and imagined that the temperature of the blood is actually reduced by the act of coagula- tion. (Syst. Chim. Org., p. 361.)]