OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 226 cipally in those veins which have valves that we find those large anasto- mosing branches; by this means the blood gets freely to the heart. As the area of all the veins is larger than that of the arteries, the blood will move more slowly through them; and this is evident from every observation that can be made. It may be observed in the large superficial veins in the extremities of the living body, and the difference of velocity in the blood flowing from a vein and artery in an operation is very great. The blood, however, moves with a good deal of velocity in a vein, for if we stop the circulation in the beginning of any of the superficial veins of an extremity, and empty the vein above, immediately upon removing the finger the blood will move along the vein faster than the eye can follow it: yet its motion is so slow as to allow the blood to lose its scarlet colour, and acquire the modena red ; and this more so as it passes on to the heart. The blood moves more slowly in tbe veins than in the arteries, that it may come into the right auricle more slowly; for if the two venae cavae were of the same size with the aorta, the blood would have the same velocity in them; which the auricle, as it is now constructed, could not have borne: but it may be probable, that the blood is assisted in its passage into the auricle by a kind of vacuum being produced by the decrease of the size of the ventricles in their contraction. From the number of anastomosing branches, especially by larger trunks, from tbe blood being liable to temporary obstructions in many places, and also moving with little force, its course becomes often very irregular and undetermined, much more so than in the arteries. The first cause of the blood’s motion in a vein of a quadruped is the force of the heart, for I think we must suppose that the heart can and does carry on simple circulation; because, in paralytic limbs, where vo- luntary muscular action is totally lost, and where, I conceive, the in- voluntary is very weak, the circulation is continued, although, I believe, with much less velocity than in perfect and sound parts: besides, we have observed, that tbe arteries continue the motion of the blood in them where the heart cither fails to do it, or where an increased motion j may be wanted. The arteries, therefore, will assist the heart in pro- polling the blood through the veins ; however, it is assisted by collateral , causes. The second cause is their muscular contraction, which most probably is in the direction of the blood's motion, assisted by lateral pressure of all kinds; because the valves will favour this course wherever j they are. However, as the valves are not universal, the motion of the ^ blood in some veins must be carried on without them, and therefore they are not absolutely necessary.