UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 248 the skin from the violence, if it has not advanced to suppuration, the object of the surgeon should be to bring about the resolution of the tu- mour : when he finds there is no further increase of the tumpur, he may conclude that resolution is beginning to take place, which being clearly ascertained, he is then to assist in exciting the absorbents to do their duty, in order to take up the extravasated blood. I believe the best stimulus is pressure, which, if urged beyond the point of ease, sets the absorbents of the part to work, for the purpose of removing the sub- stance which presses, or the part that is pressed; but most commonly the body pressing, if it be subject to the laws or powers of absorption; and in this case the extraneous substance pressing on the inner surface of the cavity is the extravasated blood which we wish to have removed. The following cases explain this. A lady fell and struck her shin against a stone ; a considerable ecchy- mosis came on almost immediately, and the skin over it inflamed to a considerable degree. The blood had not coagulated; there was there- fore a perceptible fluctuation underneath, and her physician recom- mended an opening to be made. I was sent for, and on examining the part, was rather of opinion, from the surface being a regular curve, and no part pointing, that matter had not formed ; I therefore recommended patience ; the subsiding of the inflammation, and the application of such pressure as she could bear without uneasiness, caused the whole tu- mour to be absorbed. A man was brought into St. George’s Hospital whose thigh had been run over by the wheel of a cart; a very large ecchymosis was formed on its inside, and a considerable inflammation of the skin had taken place. The blood had not coagulated, therefore a fluctuation could easil} be felt; but as there was no appearance of pointing, similar to that of mat- ter coming to the skin, I was in hopes that suppuration was not coming on; and although the inflammation was considerable, I supposed that it might arise rather from the violence ot the accident than from the extravasation : I waited, therefore, the event; saw the inflammation gradually go off, and as that subsided I observed the tumour diminish, although it was very slow in its decrease. I then directed a slight com- press to be applied, after which the tumour evidently diminished much faster than before, till the whole was absorbed. The union by the first intention usually takes place so soon after the injury that it may be said to be almost immediate, for when the blood has coagulated in such a situation as to adhere to both surfaces, and so as to keep them together, it may be said that the union is begun. It is not, however, immediately secure from mechanical violence, and the blood itself, by losing its power of retaining life, may likewise be ren-