585 THE INTERNAL COATS OF VEINS. away without producing any effect. But since such adhesions do in fact happen, the coagulable lymph must undergo some change connected with the disposition which produces its extravasation. Although the operation which is the most frequent cause of this com- plaint is to appearance trifling, yet as it is often of very serious conse- quence, both to the life of the patient and the character of the surgeon, it requires particular attention in the operator to prevent as much as possible an evil of such magnitude. With this view he will be particu- larly attentive to the mode of closing the wound and binding up the arm. This is to be done by bringing the two sides of the wound together, that they may unite by the first intention. To accomplish this, let the surgeon, with the thumb of that hand which holds the arm, push the skin towards the orifice, while he draws it on the other side to the same point with Ihe compress : thus the skin will be thrown into folds at the wound over which he is immediately to apply the compress. The com- press should be broad, to keep the skin better together; and thick, to make the compression more certain. Another advantage arising from this caution is the prevention of the vein bleeding a second time. I have known an inflammation attack the orifice, which appeared to have arisen from the first union having been broke through, and no second union formed; but this probably did not arise from the vein being opened a second time, but from the sides of the orifice not having been again brought together. I would recommend a compress of linen or lint, in preference to sticking plaster; for I imagine that the blood drying over, the orifice is a kind of bond of union more natural and effectual than any other application : and this conclusion is drawn from practice ; for I have seen more sore arms in consequence of bleeding where plasters have been afterwards applied, than from any other; and in cases of the compound fracture, when attempted to be cured as a simple fracture, if the wound will allow of being scabbed over, I have seen it always do well; whereas if it has been kept moist, or prevented from evaporating by pla- sters or other applications, it has always suppurated. When inflammation takes place beyond the orifice, so as to alarm the surgeon, he should immediately make a compress upon the vein at the inflamed part, to make the two sides adhere together; or if they do not adhere, yet simple contact will be sufficient to prevent suppuration in this part; or if inflammation has gone so far as to make the surgeon sus- pect that suppuration has taken place, then the compress must be put upon that part of the vein just above the suppuration. This I once practised, and, as I supposed, wdth success8. * [Few diseases possess more practical or theoretical interest than the subject of phle- bitis ; and yet, clear and satisfactory as Mr. Hunter’s observations on the subject are,