FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 287 the direction of the axis, and it had gone on in a straight line in that direction. Here, as there was no fixed inducement to grow in any one direction, the bean grew in a straight line, in that direction given it by chance*. This circumstance of the deeper-seated parts not so readily taking on the suppurative inflammation as those which are superficial, is shown in cases where extraneous bodies irritate any parts; for we find that ex- traneous bodies are in general capable of producing inflammation, but if these extraneous bodies are deeply seated, they may remain for years without doing more than producing the adhesive inflammation, by which means they are inclosed in a cyst, and only give some uneasiness; or if they are such as can be made to change their situation by the actions of the body upon them, as pins and needles, or from gravity, as is the case sometimes with bullets, then the parts through which they pass seem not to be much altered or disturbed* ; but if the same body was nearer to the skin it would produce suppuration. This is proved by the cases that have occurred of people swallowing pins, needles, etc.: they have been found to travel almost over the whole body, without producing any effect, except in some situations exciting some sensation; but when they have come near to the skin, the very same substance has generally produced suppuration. This principle shows itself very remarkably in the cattle which feed in bleaching fields ; there is not one of these killed without having their stomachs, etc. stuck full of pins, and no seeming inconvenience takes place, for they appear to be healthy, and fatten as readily as other cattle. However, it is to be remarked that these pins are not found in the fourth or digesting stomach, therefore do not give that disturbance to the con- stitution that might be expected. It is probable that these cases of • This circumstance of such bodies moving in various directions, and not towards the surface, is a proof of the truth of my principle, for their motion arises from a me- chanical cause, and is ruled by it; whichever way it is directed they must move, whether by gravitation, as is the case with bullets, or by the mechanical pressure of the part upon the two ends of the pin, which will determine the motion towards the point. * [The experiments of Mr. Knight render it probable that the directions taken by the plumula and radicle of seeds is referable alone to gravitation, and may always be counteracted by centrifugal force. When beans were planted on the circumference of a wheel, which was made to perform 150 vertical revolutions in a minute, the radicles invariably receded from the axis, whilst the germens sought the centre. The same thing also happened when the motion was horizontal, but with this difference, that when the number of revolutions was 250 in a minute the direction of the radicle was ten de- grees below the horizon, but forty-five degrees below this line when the revolutions were reduced to 80, the germens always taking the opposite direction at a corresponding angle. (Phil. Trans. 1806, p. 99, and 1811, p. 209.) There seems, therefore, no ground for the analogy in the text.]