566 OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. account for the cause of this new symptom; it was plain that an intes- tine (the descending part of the colon most probably,) had only received a bruise from the ball, but sufficient to kill it at this part, and till the separation of the slough had taken place, both the intestine and canal were still complete, and therefore did not communicate with each other; but when the slough was thrown off, the two were laid into one at this part, therefore the contents of the intestine got into the wound, and the matter from the wound might have got into the intestine. However, this symptom gradually decreased, by (we may suppose) the gradual contraction of this opening, and an entire stop to the course of the feces took place, and the wounds healed very kindly up. But the inflammation, the sympathetic fever, the reducing treatment, and the spare regimen all tended to weaken him very much. ยง.4. Of penetrating Wounds in the Chest. Little notice lias been taken of wounds in the chest and lungs ; indeed it would appear at first that little or nothing could be done ; yet in many cases a great deal may be done for the good of the patient. It is possible a wound in the chest may be of the first kind, viz. only penetrating, yet from circumstances may prove fatal, as will be explained in the second or complicated, viz. a wound of the lungs. It is pretty well known that wounds of the lungs (abstracted from other mischief,) are not mortal. I have seen several cases where the patient has got well after being shot quite through the body and lungs, while from a very small wound made by a sword or bayonet into the lungs the patients have died, from which I should readily suppose that a wound in the lungs from a ball would in general do better than a wound in the same part with a pointed instrument; and this difference in effects would appear in many cases to arise from the difference in the quantity of blood extravasated, because the bleeding from a ball is very inconsiderable in comparison to that from a cut, and there is therefore a less chance of extravasated blood, either into the cavity of the thorax or into the cells of the lungs: another circumstance that favours gun- shot wounds in these parts is, that they seldom heal up externally by the first intention, on account of the slough, especially at the wound made by the entrance of the ball, so that the external wound remains open for a considerable time, by which means any extravasated matter may escape; but even this has often its disadvantages, for by keeping open the external wound, which leads into the cavity, we give a chance to produce the suppurative inflammation through the whole surface of