378 TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. tice in inflammations not very remote from the surface. But in many eases the blood cannot be taken away from the part itself, but only from some neighbouring part, so as to affect the part inflamed : thus, we bleed in the temporal artery for inflammation of the eyes; we bleed in the jugular veins for inflammation of the brain; and also in the temporal artery to lessen the column of blood going to the brain, by the internal carotids. But in many situations it will probably be impossible to do this with any hopes of success, and therefore we may have recourse to the sympathetic all'cctions before described. 1 oo much action with small powers may often, if not always, be classed with the irritable constitution, and bleeding should then be per- formed with very great caution: one case out of many I shall relate as an instance of great action with debility. A gentleman had one of the most violent inflammations I ever saw in one of his eyes, attended with violent pain in his head, and the blood extremely sizy, all of which denotes great action of parts: yet the buff of the blood was so loose when coagulated that it could hardly bear its own weight, or make any resistance to the finger when pressed; and although he was bled pretty freely, yet he never found any relief from it. This blood becoming a symptom, both of the constitution and dis- ease, manifestly showed weak powers from its looseness, and too great action from its slowness of coagulation, which was the cause of the bull'. The following case is another strong instance of great action in a weak irritable habit. A lady had a violent inflammation at the root of the tongue, so as to form a considerable suppuration, with a pulse of 120, 125, and often 1:50 in a minute. Her blood was extremely sizy, yet she received but little benefit from the first bleeding, although the blood coagulated pretty firmly, which indicated strength. She was of an irritable constitution, so as to receive less benefit from bleeding than another; and when bled three times, the blood became extremely loose in its texture, which bark removed, as well as the other symptoms. Upon leaving off the bark the symptoms all recurred, and when she was bled again for the second at- tack, which was the fourth time, the blood, although inflammatory, had recovered a good deal of its proper firmness; but in the second bleed- ing for this second attack it was less so, and in the third it was still less. Suspecting that bleeding in the present case would not produce resolution, I paid particular attention to the pulse at the time of bleed- but I think there are no proofs of it: however, from another effect, I conceive there is a power or property applied to the wound, which hinders the irritation of contraction that naturally takes place in a wounded vessel, producing, probably, a paralysis for a time.