256 UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. of the body. The chin 1ms been united to the breast, the tongue to the lips or cheek, etc., and when this happens it has commonly been through the medium of granulations. The attempt to unite parts of two difler- ent bodies has only been recommended by Taliacotius. 1 he most ex- traordinary of all the circumstances respecting union is by removing a part of one body and afterwards uniting it to some part of another, where on one side there can be no assistance given to the union, as the divided or separated part is hardly able to do more than to preserve its own living principle, and accept of the union. The possibility of this species of union shows how strong the uniting power must be. By it the spurs of the young cock can be made to grow on his comb, or on that of another cock; and its testicles, after having been removed, may be made to unite to the inside of any cavity of an animal. Teeth, after having been drawn and inserted into the sockets of another person, unite to the new socket, which is called transplant- ing”. Ingrafting and the inoculating of trees succeed upon the same principle*. * That the living principles in two bodies which have a perfect affinity to one an- other should not only be a preservative, but a cause of union, is evident; but even in bodies which appear foreign to one another the stimulus of an extraneous body is not produced where union is not intended, and cannot take place, although we should at first suppose that the extraneous stimulus would be given, and suppuration succeedb. This is verified by the eggs of many insects, which are laid under the skin of different animals, producing only the adhesive inflammation in the surrounding parts, by which the skin is thickened and a nidus is formed for the eggs. The Guinea worm, called vena medenensis [Filaria Medinentis, lludolplii], is also a striking instance of this ; for while the animal is endowed with the living principle, it gives but little trouble, yet if killed it gives the stimulus of an extraneous body, which produces suppuration through its whole length. Other instances of the same sort are, > [See the ensuing chapter, and Yol. II. On the Diseases of the Teeth, p. 55; also Boronio, Degli innesti Animali, 1804, in which work an account is given of the trans- ference of portions of the integuments from one part of an animal to another with per- fect success—experiments, it may be observed, which strongly corroborate the testimony „f I'iovaranti, Molinelli, Garengeot, Dionis, Makau, Balfour, Barthelemy, P.edngnel, Sc. respecting the reapplication and subsequent growth of parts, as of the nose, tips of the fingers, Ups, &c. which have been completely severed from the body. The Rhinoplastic or Taliacotian operation has been revived of late years, and applied with considerable success to tiie cure of several species of disease and deformity. 1 hus, Sir Astley Cooper has applied it to the cure of fistulaj in perimeo attended with loss ol substance; Mr. Lynn to the restoration of the under lip, upon whieh the beard afterwards grew ; Mr. Earle to supply the place of the cicatrices of burns; and a great many other surgeons, particularly on the Continent, to the restoration of the nose, cheeks, lips, &c.J b [The author, I apprehend, is mistaken in saying that no stimulus is given in those cases. Generally, if not always, sacs are formed for the lodgement of these ova, just in the same way as for bullets or other extraneous inert substances, by the effusion ol lymph and consolidation of the neighbouring textures.]