26 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. cited. All the water in the world would not make a dead seed grow. The same mode of distinction is applicable to the coagulation of the lymph. The first observations on the blood were most probably made on that of the more perfect animals, whose heat is commonly greater than the heat of the atmosphere. Such blood when extravasated was found to coagulate on cooling; it was therefore natural to suppose that the co- agulation of the lymph arose from its becoming colder, as happens in jelly*; but cold, simply, has certainly no effect upon the coagulating lymph. If we take a fish out of the sea, the heat of its body perhaps about 60°, and bring it into an atmosphere of 70°, the blood, on being let out of the vessels, will immediately coagulate. This was ascertained on board of a ship lying off Belleisle, in the summer 1761 ; for immedi- ately upon a fish being caught, I ascertained its heat, and letting out part of its blood, it immediately coagulated, although the blood dis- charged was become warmer than that remaining in the vessels of the fish; which, however, still continued fluid. Indeed, common exjjerience and observation show us that cold alone has no power to coagulate the blood. It often happens that particular parts of an animal, such as the fingers, face, nose, ears &c., are cooled nearly to the freezing-point, and frequently are in that state for a con- siderable time, yet the blood retains its fluidity in those parts, as I have experienced in my own fingers; and indeed in those parts of an animal where the blood has been frozen, and again thawed, the blood appears as fluid as before, and circulates as usual. Heat has the power of ex- citing action in an animal, and we find that heat even increases the action of coagulation ; for if blood be heated to about 120°, it will co- agulate five minutes sooner than when kept at its natural heat, and even sooner than the blood of the same animal taken at the same time and cooled to 50of. Mr. Hewson has laboured this point, endeavouring to show it is not cold that makes the blood coagulate, and he has laboured no less to show the real cause of such a change. He took fresh blood and froze it quickly; on being thawed, it was again fluid, but soon afterwards coagulated ; this he conceived to be a * This term has been applied to the coagulation of the blood, but I think improperly ; for I should only call that jelly which became solid by cold, and fluid again by heat: coagulation is totally different, for it is a new species of combination. The freezing of blood may be called congelation. + These experiments were made on the jugular veins of dogs, by taking a section of the veins on each side filled with blood, and immersing them in water, either warmer, or colder, or of the natural heat, and observing the comparative difference.