UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 241 both inflame and suppurate. The same operations, however, very often take place in both, though the order in which they happen is reversed, the first becoming like the second, by inflaming and suppurating, and the second being in many cases, when properly treated, brought back to a resemblance of the first, and united by the first intention, by which inflammation and suppuration are prevented. But when the life of a : part has been destroyed by the accident, it must necessarily suppurate ; and therefore these injuries will be rendered similar, in this respect, to those which communicate immediately, and have not been united by • the first intention. That injury which in its nature is the most simple, and yet calls forth [the actions of the part to recover from it, is a degree of concussion*, where he only effect produced is a debility of the actions or functions of the ■whole or part, similar to that occasioned by a bruise, in which the con- •inuity of the substance is not interrupted: in such a state the parts nave little to do but to expand and reinstate themselves in their natural nosition, actions, and feelings; and this is what happens in concussion of the brain8. I he rupture of a small blood-vessel is, perhaps, the next in order of . implicity. Where the continuity of the part is broken, extravasation aakes place, and the blood is diffused into the common cellular mem- brane, into the interstices of some part, or into a circumscribed ’ avity. But should the vessel be either very large, or essential to life, • uch as the femoral, brachial, or coronary arteries; or should the rup- urc take place in a vital part, as the brain, or into interstices or cavities belonging to a vital part, as into the cavities of the brain or pericardium, a11 such cases the injury may kill from the extravasation alone, how- I ver inconsiderable may be the original mischief. 1 he operation of restoration in this case, when the vital parts are not : oncemed or disturbed, consists, first, in the coagulation of the extra- i asated blood between the ruptured parts, laying, as it were, the foun- dation of union; next, in closing the ruptured vessel or in promoting r'-3 inosculation ; and some time after in bringing about an absorption of ji he superfluous extravasated blood. If the vessel close, that effect is reduced by the muscular contraction of its coats; but in what way it * Here I mean concussion a3 a general term, not confining it to the brain. [Concussion of the brain is not unfreguently attended with an extravasation of i l00d >“ minute specks over an extended surface of the interior of the organ, as if ■ising from a rupture of a multitude of minute vessels: (See Bright’s Medical Reports, il. i. p. 405, and plates.) Probably some organic derangement takes place in all ises of concussion, although, from the extreme delicacy and minuteness of the ulti- late structure, such changes are not always cognizable by our senses.] ! VOL. III. ji