594 ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. AN ACCOUNT OF MR. HUNTER’S METHOD OF PERFORM- ING THE OPERATION FOR THE CURE OF THE POPLI- TEAL ANEURISM8. By Sir Evbkard Home, Bart. [From the Transactions of a Society for the fnijirovement of Minlical ami Chirurgical Knowledge, Vol: I., p. 138. 1703.}- -* The popliteal aneurism being a disease which frequently occurs and generally proves fatal, unless some means are taken to prevent it, we cannot be surprised that it has attracted the attention and called forth the exertions of the ablest surgeons in this country to discover some method of cure. Experience has shown that all the modes hitherto practised are ex- ceedingly precarious, being rarely attended with success, and the death of the patient being commonly a consequence of a failure of the opera- tion : a circumstance which has led some surgeons of great eminence to prefer the amputation of the limb in all such cases. Mr. Hunter, who has repeatedly performed the operation for the aneu- rism, finding that it in general fails, and having likewise observed that the removal of a limb so high up, from a person in health, seldom suc- ceeds in preserving life, and when it does, leaves the patient disabled, was excited to consider this disease with more than ordinary attention. The result has been a mode of practice that appears to possess many advantages over those hitherto recommended, and to be an improvement in the practical part of surgery; at least it is from this idea being strongly impressed on my mind that I am induced to communicate it to this So- ciety, as Mr. Hunter is too much engaged to permit his taking that task upon himself. An aneurism is a preternatural dilatation of a portion of an artery, and in general it is a very small part of the arterial coats which is thus affected. The dilatation is commonly on one side only, and when once begun gradually enlarges, from the force of the heart propelling the blood against the dilated part. Thus in time a sac is formed, which being in some measure out of the direct course of the circulation, the blood, where it is at the greatest distance from the channel of the artery, coagulates * [Mr. Hunter’s claim to the merit of this discovery has been vindicated in the course of his Life. See Vol. I. p. 96.}