TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 333 i violent pain in those parts; indeed we find many strong adhesions upon the opening of dead bodies, in parts which the friends of these persons never heard mentioned, during life, as the subject of a single complaint. That adhesions can be produced from very slight inflammation, is proved in ruptures in consequence of wearing a truss; for we find the - slight pressure of a truss exciting such action as to thicken parts, by which means the two sides of the sac are united, though there be hardly any sensation in the part; we also see, in cases where this inflammation arises from violence, that it gives little or no pain. A man shall be shot it through the cavity of the abdomen, and if none of the contained parts are materially hurt, the adhesive inflammation shall take place in all the internal parts contiguous to the wound made by the ball, and yet no _ great degree of pain shall be felt. This assertion is still proved by the little pain suffered after many bruises, where there is evident inflam- mation ; and in simple fractures the pain from the inflammation is very trifling, whatever it may be from the laceration of the parts. But this will be according to the degree of inflammation, what stage it is in, and what parts are inflamed, as will be fully explained hereafter. We find it a common principle in the animal machine, that every part ]i increases in some degree according to the action requireda. Thus we :find muscles increase in size when much exercised ; vessels become larger in proportion to the necessity of supply, as, for instance, in the gravid uterus: the external carotids in the stag, also, when his horns are growing, are much larger than at any other time ; and I have ob- served, that in inflammation the vessels become larger, more blood passes, and there appear to be more actions taking place ; but the nerves do not seem to undergo any change. The nerves of the gravid uterus are the same as when it is in the natural state ; neither do the branches of the fifth and seventh pair of nerves in the stag become larger; and in inflammation of the nerves their blood-vessels are enlarged, and have coagulating lymph thrown into their interstices, but the nerve itself is not increased, so as to bring the part to the state of a natural part, fitted for acute sensation, which shows that the motions of the nerves have nothing to do with the ceconomy of the part; they are only the messen- gers of intelligence and orders. It appears that only the action of the materia vitae in the inflamed parts is increased, and this increase of ac- tion in the inflamed part is continued along the nerve which is not in- [ This observation may be true of those parts which have naturally a fibrous tex- ture, but certainly not of the internal viscera of the body and organs of the senses, the pertection ol which is not observed to bear any proportion to their size. How far the brain is subject to this law it is for the cranioseopist to decide.]