FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 305 inflammations must have arisen from the nature of the obstruction, if there could be any ; but this could never account for the action of many specific diseases and poisons. It was also too mechanical. If they had said that any obstruction to the natural actions of a part which could stop the blood’s motion in it became a cause of inflammation, they would not have been so materially wrong as to a possible cause of inflammation. It has been as much laboured, on the other hand, to show that the cause cannot on any occasion be obstruction in the blood’s motion through the small vessels; but I will venture to say that any cause winch can obstruct the motion of the blood for a given time will be- come die cause of inflammation; for either the cause of the obstruction itself, or the blood being retained in the smaller vessels for a certain tune, will either irritate or unite the parts; or where it irritates will throw the vessels into such actions as naturally arise out of an extra- neous irritating cause, but not an increased motion of the blood behind to drive on the obstructed blood through these vessels, as has been sup- posed. It will excite that action which in the end produces suppura- tion in order to get rid of the extraneous matter which was the cause of the obstruction, such as pressure on external parts, or the obstruct- ‘ “f mattei; ltself' which is t0 be reckoned extraneous. But though pure ! “flammatlon 18 rather an effort of nature than a disease, yet it always ' ^ dlS6ase or disturbance, in as much as there must be a previous i morbid or disturbed state to make such effort necessary. All inflammations attended with disease have some specific quality which simple inflammation has not; and in such cases it is the specific quality which is the disease, and not the inflammation; for such con- stitutions or parts as are capable of falling into the true adhesive and suppurative inflammation are to lie looked upon as the most healthy and the freest from diseases of all kinds. Indeed, even where there is a spe- efic quality, it often can hardly be called disease; for in the smallpox where the disorder goes through its different operations well, it is ex- act y similar to common healthy inflammation ; for if such an irritation ^ above described were to attack a constitution or parts in another state han that of health, we should then not have either the adhesive or sup- purative inflammation taking place, but most probably some other, such as the erysipelatous or scrofulous, according to the nature of the con- stitution or parts at the time. thJtim St?L0f hCalth ^ a Constitution is 80 remarkable that we see in Z,Ti‘ f 7mpt°matlC feVCr’ when nat“re would seem to be uni- supnurati ^ l^ °* benigD inflammati™ going on, and kindly ppuration; which shows that this fever has no specific tendency to vo? r°n’ the COnStitUtion bein& only disturbed by sympathizing