116 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. having no communication with the brain, is one of the strongest proofs of the materia vita: making part of the composition of the body, inde- pendently of the nerves, and is similar in this respect to those inferior orders of animals that have no nerves, where every other principle of the animal is diffused through the whole0. This opinion cannot be proved by experiment; but I think daily experience shows us that the living principle in the body acts exactly upon the same principle with the brain. Every part of the body is susceptible of impression, and the materia vita: of every part is thrown into action, which, if continued to the brain, produces sensation; but it [the materia vitae] may only be such as to throw the part impressed into such actions as it is capable of, ac- cording to the kind of impression; so does the brain or mind. The body loses impression by habit, so does the brain; it continues action from habit, so does the brain. The body, or parts of the body, have a recollection of former impressions when impressed anew; so has the brain : but they have not spontaneous memory as the brain has, because the brain is a complete whole of itself, and therefore its actions are com- plete in themselves. The materia vitae of the body being diffused, makes a [Thus no muscular fibres have yet been detected in the homogeneous parenchyma of the freshwater Polype, the Medusa, and several other species of zoophytes, although a species of contractility plainly resides in every part of these animals. In the Acrita there are no distinct nervous filaments; the digestive organ is excavated in the paren- chyma of the body, and is devoid of distinct parietes; the vascular system consists merely of reticulate canals, in the substance of the body, devoid of proper tunics, in which a cyclosis of the nutrient fluids is observed, analogous to that of plants, but not a true circulation; and generation is accomplished by spontaneous fission, or gemmation. All the different systems, in short, are blended together in these polymorphous animals, analogous to what occurs in the ova or germs of the higher classes; and where even a distinct organ happens to be eliminated, it is often repeated indefinitely in the same in- dividual, as in polypi, where the nutritious tubes of one individual are generally sup- plied by numerous mouths, which give it the semblance of a composite animal. The Polygastrica derive their name from an analogous multiplication of their digestive organ; and in the Tami®, each joint of the animal is the seat of a separate ovary. In these, which may be considered as the first steps of animal organization, we may observe a close resemblance to vegetables. There is no attempt or approach to centralization, but all the properties or functions of the animal (for which in the higher orders distinct or- gans are appropriated) are enjoyed by and reside in equally every part, and confer on every part an individuality of existence which enables it, when separated from the whole, to exist, to grow, and to reproduce as a complete animal. The knowledge of these facts by Hunter may serve to show the extent of his infor- mation on comparative anatomy, and the powers which he possessed of generalization ; but I look upon it as a still higher proof of the activity of his genius, to have applied so unexpected a truth to the illustration of the life of the blood. In the ensuing note I shall have occasion to notice the error into which many physiologists have fallen in expounding this part of Mr. Hunter’s doctrines. See note, vol. i. p. 260; and Cyclop, oj Anal. and Phys., art. Acrita.]