188 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. observed, that the increased size of the heart would be less in the present case, than natural, for the very quick motion of this viscus, under this irritation, hindered a full diastole ; but when I left off blowing, and the heart ceased acting, it became large; and on resuming my artificial breathing, it again became small, which I did three times in the course of this experiment. But I think I have observed in general that the heart is not so much affected by the stimulus of death as the other mus- cles of the body. We seldom see a dead body that is not stiff; but we very often find the heart large and flabby, and not in the least con- tracted ; and I am not certain but this may be the case also with some of the other vital parts, as the stomach and intestines. It is to be set down as a principle, that the action of every muscle is alternate contraction and relaxation; and it cannot be otherwise ; but as there is a necessity for a more constant and regular motion in the heart than probably in any of the other muscles, more disputes have arisen about the cause of its regular alternate motion. Some have accounted for it from the position of the mouths of the coronary arteries respecting the valves of the aorta, supposing, erroneously, that the heart has its blood in the time of its relaxation* ; but the circulation, whether exist- ing or not, has not such immediate effect upon a muscle; nor would it account for the action of the auricle in the same animal, nor for the action of the heart in a fish; but from what we shall observe on the valves of the aorta, we shall find that this opinion immediately falls to the ground. An easy experiment may put this beyond a doubt; for if the heart of a dog be laid open, and the coronary artery wounded, it will be found to jet out its blood as the aorta distends. Others have ac- counted for the alternate motion of the heart, from the course of its nerves passing between the two great arteries, so as to be compressed when the arteries are dilated ; but this could only produce relaxation. We know, too, that such immediate compression on a nerve has no such immediate effect upon a muscle, not to say that it would most probably make it contract; for when the nerves of the heart are cut, this does not stop its motion, but rather makes it contract for the instant. The heart’s motion does not arise from an immediate impulse from the brain, as it does in the voluntary muscles; and as it is only in the quadruped and bird that the nerves can be influenced in their passage to it, it does not account for this alternate motion in other classes of animals. The flowing of the blood into the heart has been assigned as a cause of its contraction; but even that ■will not account for it, although it will * This will be readily understood when I come to explain the mode of action in the valves of the arteries.