FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 309 Many people are much more susceptible of inflammation than others, even of the common kind, and those probably may be reckoned simply irritable. In such it is more violent, and in such it is more apt to spread, the surrounding parts being ready to act or sympathize with an action to which they are prone; continued sympathy more readily takes place in such cases* : but this is not universal, for we find many very consi- derable inflammations confined to the part irritated, and in such in- stances continued sympathy is not great; only the part irritated takes up the action violently. The term or idea of inflammation may be too general, yet it is pro- bable that it may form a genus in which there is a number of species, or it may be more confined in its classification, and be reckoned a spe- cies containing several varieties1. These are, however, so connected and directs the suppurative; but if the erysipelatous conies on, the suppurative ceases; it then spreads along the surface, uniting inflammation with inflammation, and pro- ducing the confluent smallpox. IV e have no specific remedy for the smallpox, nor can we readily have any for a dis- ease which cures itself; our business then is to cure the erysipelatous, if possible, and leave the constitution to cure the specific. * This one might illustrate by a piece of paper being either dry or damp. If dry, then ink will not spread, it will be confined to its point; but if damp it will spread, being attracted by the surrounding damp to which it has an affinity. “ [Many objections have been raised to the present treatise, on the score of its defec- tive classification: but the fact is, the greater number of these have arisen from a mis- taken apprehension of the author’s object (see particularly James on Inflammation, 1st edit., p. 10), which seems to have been solely to explain the phenomena of healthy in- flammation, and only so far to notice the specific varieties of this action as they served to illustrate the main subject. The author, consequently, setting out with the obser- vation that the essential nature of inflammation always remains the same, however complicated the phenomena may be, first presents to his reader’s view a general account of healthy inflammation, which is regarded as the type or primary form of all its va- rieties. Having done this, he proceeds to notice the different causes which give rise to those modifications of the primary form called varieties, and these he groups to- gether under two general heads, viz. structure, position, climate, age, Src. on the one hand, and specific differences of constitution or of exciting cause, on the other; but as the latter necessarily imply a deviation from the healthy standard, they are only inci- dentally noticed ; although it was impossible that the author, out of the fullness of his experience, should not occasionally expatiate on collateral points, when these happened to be of importance. By this method of procedure, which is the method of the erv- stallographcr, the most complicated forms are gradually deduced out of the most simple; and it certainly appears to me that no other method would have served the purpose equally of consolidating the various and heterogeneous facts of this subject. We may regret that Mr. Hunter s scheme did not embrace the complete pathology of inflamma- | lion, but we cannot charge this as any defect of the present treatise. I . * Relieve, further, that the subject of inflammation is incapable of any strict nosolo- | gical classification, principally from the want of some fixed circumstance of leading j impoitance to serve as the basis of a system. It may be very allowable to use such epithets as sthenic or asthenic, acute or chronic, phlegmonous or erysipelatous, scrofu- j °!,S or carb«nculous, because these terms serve to express a resemblance of the existing