100 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. milk. I hese globules are smaller than the red globules of the blood, and about the size of those in the pancreatic juice; they retain their figure in water, and therefore are not similar to the red globules; they retain their round form in the serum ; they are also specifically heavier than their own lymph and serum. One would naturally suppose from observing the chyle to have glo- bular particles in certain animals that they formed the red globules in the blood; but when we consider that the chyle in fowls has no glo- bules, and yet that they have red blood, we must conclude that they do not answer this purpose®. The first motion of the nourishment in most animals consists in the absorption of the chyle from the appendages of the stomach ; and in many this alone appears to constitute the whole, as they have no such organ or viscus as a heart, to which it may be carried; and in such it may be supposed to be, in its mode of distribution, somewhat similar to the mesenteric veins and vena portae : the parts therefore assimilate, and dispose of it themselves ; but this structure belongs only to the most simple, or the first class of animals. In those which are more perfect, where parts are formed for each particular purpose, the chyle is brought to one organ, called the heart, having first joined the venous blood, which now requires a similar process, and both are sent to the lungs, where most probably the chyle receives its finishing process ; and from thence it comes back to the heart again, to be sent to every part of the body*. In those animals that have hearts we are to take into the account a number of particulars. First, the blood’s motion in consequence of that organ; secondly, the principal intention of that motion, viz. that it may be prepared in the lungs, which introduces breathing ; thirdly, the va- riety in the kinds of lungs; fourthly, the different kinds of media in which animals are obliged to breathe for the purpose of extracting matter employed in the preparation of this fluid. In this investigation we shall find there is not an exact or regular correspondence in all the parts so employed. This irregularity arises from animals breathing different substances: such as some breathing the common atmosphere, in which is included the respirable air; others water, in which air is included, as fish. Some breathe both air and water; while there are others which breathe air in their perfect state, but water in their first periods or imperfect state of lifef. If wre were * The circulation in fish is an exception to this. f In this account I do not include animals in embryo, and some others, which do not breathe at all. * [See note, p. 67.]