PART IV. CHAPTER I. OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. Gr UN-SHOT wounds may be said to be an effect of a modern improve- ment in offence and defence, unknown in the former mode of war, which is still practised where European improvements are not known ; and it is curious to observe that fire-arms and spirits are the first of our refine- ments that are adopted in uncivilized countries; and, indeed, for ages they have been the only objects that have ljeen at all noticed or sought after by rude nations. It was not till the fourteenth century that gun- powder was made, or rather compounded ; but it was not till afterwards applied to the purpose of projecting bodies. But even now the wounds received in war are not all gun-shot wounds : some, therefore, are simi- lar in many respects to those received in former times. The knowledge of the effect of gunpowder, and its application to the art of war, or the projection of bodies for the destruction of men, has been in some degree accompanied by improvements in the arts and sciences in general, and among others that of surgery, in which art the healing of wounds so produced makes a material part. In France, more especially, the study of both were carried to considerable lengths; but though the art of destruction has been there improved and illustrated by writings, it is rather surprising that the art of healing should not have been equally illustrated in the same manner \ Little has been ■written on this subject, although perhaps, when we take every circum- stance into consideration, it requires particular discussion; and what has been written is so superficial that it deserves but little attention. Practice, not precept, seemed to be the guide of all who studied in this [ Hw iliibcrality of this sarcasm has been amply atoned for by the judicious Ilen- nen, who, in his “ Introductory Remarks” to Military Surgery, has not scrupled to as- sign the chief rank to the military surgeons of France, previous to the time of Hunter, at the same time that he pays a well-deserved compliment to the admirable “ Memoirs of the French Academy of Surgery,” which were published in 1743-57.—Ptineiylet of Military Surgery, by John Hennen, M.I)., p. 12.]