THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 327 ing to the nature of the inflammation ; if healthy, it is a pale red; if less healthy, the colour will be darker, more of a purple, and so on till it shall arteries and capillaries visibly enlarge in size and increase in number in inflammation exactly as they are observed to do when the healthy functions of any part are unusually exerted. 3. That as, under ordinary circumstances, the heat and sensibility of parts are in proportion to the quantity of blood going to these parts, so it is reasonable to con- clude that the same effects, observable in inflammation, are dependent on the same causes. 4. That inflamed parts bleed more copiously than those which are uninflamed, and that the redness returns more rapidly after pressure than is observed to happen in parts which have been stricken with cold, and are consequently congested. 5. That the returning veins from an inflamed part are more distended than naturally, which perfectly accords with the observation made by Mr. Lawrence that when venesection is simultaneously performed on both arms, one of which is inflamed, the blood which flows from the inflamed side, in a given time, is twice and sometimes three times as great as that which flows from the sound side. C. That periodic determinations of blood consequent on increased activity of function are apt, when excessive either in degree or duration, to terminate in inflammation, in the same manner exactly as great or pro- longed constitutional excitement from exercise or mental causes may terminate in fever. 7. That the arterial colour of the blood in inflamed parts depends (as Mr. Hunter sup- posed) on the rapidity of its transmission through the parts, which does not allow suf- ficient time for the usual changes to take place; an effect, however, which it seems more reasonable to refer to the perverted state of the vital functions. 8. That the pul- satory and throbbing pain of inflammation indicates an increased local activity, just as any sudden or great exertion of muscular power occasions throbbing of the whole System. The augmented volume and stroke of the pulse, and the increased impetus with which the blood is projected from an inflamed vessel when divided, are additional proofs of the same kind. 9. That as the application of stimuli, ex vi termini, excites an unusual activity of function in all the organs of the body, it seems unreasonable to assign a se- dative effect to these agencies where they occasion inflammation. 10. That the causes of inflammation, immediate as well as predisponent, are of such a nature as to give increased vigour to most of the operations of the economy, as on the other hand the nature of the remedies employed is precisely of that kind which is known, from experience, to be best calculated to diminish strength as well as to reduce action. 11. That the ordinary func- tions of an inflamed part, and sometimes of the whole system, are suspended and as it were concentrated on the process of reparation, agreeably to what is observed to happen when other important operations arc carried on in the animal body. These reasons seem sufficient to lead to the conclusion that inflammation is an act in which, if there is not increased power, there is at least increased action. The capital objection to this theory is, that the circulation is demonstratively retarded, and sometimes completely arrested, in inflammation ; an objection which is partly re- moved, however, by the consideration, that although retarded in the most inflamed parts, it is accelerated in the parts adjacent. The statement, however, is objectionable on other accounts. It makes increased action, in parts professedly contractile, to consist in dilatation, for which we have no authority, and which obviously confounds conges- tion with inflammation; besides, dilatation can only influence the circulation by giving increased effect to the heart’s action; an effect, however, which by no means univer- sally follows; and in regard to the larger arteries the same consequences must ensue, for it has been proved by Dr. Alison, that instead of their contractility being increased,