41.9 OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. considered, and we find that fomentations find poultices often produce that effect; we find too, that by keeping the cuticle moist and warm the sensitive operations of the nerves of the parts are soothed or lulled to rest; while, on the contrary, if the inflamed skin is allowed to dry, the inflammation is increased; and as probably suppuration is not checked by such treatment, it ought to be put into practice : as warmth excites action, it is probable the warmer the fomentation so much the better; and in many cases the action is increased so that they can hardly bear it. §•4. Collections of Matter without Inflammation. I have hitherto been describing true suppuration, which I have said, I believe is a consequence only of inflammation,” a process generally allowed. Also in treating on the cause of suppuration, viz. inflamma- tion, I hinted that there were often swellings, or thickening of parts, with- out the visible or common symptoms of inflammation, viz. without pain, change of colour, &c.; and 1 also hinted, in treating of suppuration, that there were collections of matter, somewhat similar to suppuration, which did not arise in consequence of the common inflammation : these I shall now consider. 1 conceive all such collections of matter to be of a scro- fulous nature : they are most common in the young subject, and seldom found in the full-grown or old : they are commonly called matter or pus, and therefore I choose to contrast true suppuration with them. Although I have termed this suppuration, yet it has none of its true characters, any more than the swellings, which are the forerunners of it, have the true characters of inflammation ; and as I did not call them inflammatory, strictly speaking I should not call this suppuration ; but I have no other term expressive of it. Many indolent tumours, slow swellings in the joints, swellings of the lymphatic glands, tubercles in the lungs, and swellings in many parts of the body, are diseased thickenings, without visible inflammation; and the contents of some kinds of encysted tumours; the matter of many scrofulous suppurations, as in the lymphatic glands ; the suppuration of many joints, viz. those scrofulous suppurations in the joints of the foot and hand; m the knee, called white swellings; the joint of the thigh, commonly called lap-cases; the loins, called lumbar abscesses ; the dis- charge of the above-mentioned tubercles in the lungs, as well as in many other parts of the body, are all instances of matter being formed without any previous visible inflammation, and are therefore in this one respect all lery similar to one another. They come on insensibly, the first sym- ptom being commonly the swellings, in consequence of the thickening*