the adhesive inflammation. 334 flamed, to the mind, so that the impression on the sensorium is, probably, equal to the action of the inflamed materia vitre. Ihe quantity of natural sensibility is, I believe, proportioned to the quantity of nerves, under any given circumstance; but I apprehend the diseased sensibility does not take place at all in this proportion, but in proportion to the diseased action of the materia vita?. Thus a tendon has very little sensation when injured in a natural state ; but let that tendon become inflamed, or otherwise diseased, and the sensation shall be very acute. It may not be improper to observe, that many parts of the body in a natural state give peculiar sensations when impressed; and when those parts are injured they give likewise pain peculiar to themselves ; it is this latter effect which I am to consider. I may also observe, that the same mode of impression shall give a peculiar sensation to one part, while it shall give pain to another. Thus, what will produce sickness in the stomach, will produce pain in the colon. When the sensation of pain is in a vital part it is somewhat different from most of those pains that are common. Thus, when the pain arises from an injury done to the head, the sensation is a heavy stupifying pain, rendering the person affected unfit to pay attention to other sensations, and is often attended with sickness, from the stomach sympathizing with it. When the pain is in the heart or lungs it is more acute, and is very much confined to the part diseased. W hen in the stomach and intestines, especially the upper part of them, it is a heavy oppressive sickly pain, but more or less attended with sickness according to its pressure or proximity to the stomach; for when situated in the colon it is more acute, and less at- tended with sickness. We cannot give a better illustration of this than by taking notice of the effects of a purge. If we take such a purge as will produce both sickness and griping, we can easily trace the progress of the medicine in the canal; when in the stomach it makes us sick, but we soon find the sickness becoming more faint, by which we can judge that it has proceeded to the duodenum; and then a kind of uneasiness, approaching to pain, succeeds; when this is the case we may be certain that the medicine is passing along the jejunum ; it then begins to give a sickish griping pain, which I conceive belongs to the ilium; and when in the colon it is a sharp pain, soon after which a motion takes place. I he liver, testicles, and uterus arc subject nearly to the same kind of pain as the stomach. A tendon, ligament, and bone give something of the same kind of pain, though not so oppressive, namely, a dull and heavy pain, often attended with some little sickness, the stomach gene- rally sympathizing in such cases. But the skin, muscles, and the cel-