79 GliNERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. The following eases illustrate this still further. I bled a gentleman in the temporal artery, while in a fit of apoplexy ; he breathed seemingly with great difficulty; the blood flowed very freely, and he continued to bleed longer than we commonly find from the same wound, which made me suspect that the artery had lost some of its contracting power. The blood was as dark as venal blood ; he became somewhat relieved, and his breathing more free. About two hours afterwards we opened the same orifice, which still bled freely, but now the blood was become florid as usual. Mrs. , in Norris-street, Haymarket, fell into an apoplectic fit, in which she was insensible respecting ideas : her breathing was very imperfect, attended with a rattling in her throat, and a snort; the pulse was very steady, but rather slow. I opened the temporal artery, which bled very freely. But I observed that when she breathed freely the blood from the artery became red; and when her breathing was diffi- ; cult, or when she hardly breathed at all, the blood became dark, and this alternated several times in the course of bleeding; yet all this made but little alteration in the pulse. In many diseases of the heart, as well as of the lungs, we may often observe the same appearance. In many diseases of the heart, producing what is called angina pectoris, (the symptoms of which arise from a vast variety of causes, palpitations being commonly one,) we shall see ; that upon any exertion the heart acts with great violence, and the breathing is very laborious, or rather imperfect, not corresponding with the violence of the motion of the blood ; the face will become of a dark theory that the heart is poisoned by its ovt n blood, is disproved, first, by the experiments of Kay and Edwards, which tend to prove that venous blood contributes, although feebly, to support muscular irritability; secondly, by the post mortem appearances, which ex- hibit the right side of the heart and the whole venous system gorged with blood, while the left side is almost wholly empty, contrary to what might be expected, considering that the left ventricle ceases to act first in ordinary death; and thirdly, by the difficulty of accounting for the renewal of the contractions of the heart on the reestablishment of respiration. Resuscitation from asphyxia would, if Bichat’s doctrine were true, bo im- possible, because the very power by which it must owe the restoration of its irritability would be destroyed; whereas by admitting that the heart retains a certain portion of irritability, it is not difficult to account for the renewal of its contraction as soon as the stagnation in the pulmonary capillaries is removed. It would obviously be inconsistent with the object of these notes to enter on this subject more fully ; at the same time it appeared necessary to guard the reader against the notion, that “ these actions, or ces- sations of actions, are all dependent on life” abstractedly considered. The fact is, all the phenomena ol asphyxia primarily arise out of the interruptions to those chemical changes which atmospheric air produces on the blood, in consequence of which venous blood is circulated through the system, and produces a series of effects which are plainly capable of being analytically examined. (See Cyclop, of Pract. Med., art. Asphyxia, by Dr. Roget.)]