292 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. cesses besides inflammation are going on, viz. suppuration; this, how- ever, will be more or less, according to the constitution, for if it has a strong susceptibility for the erysipelatous, the dissimilar parts will more readily sympathize with the seat of the disease. Thus the investing membranes have not this sympathetic connexion with the parts which they either cover or line; nor have the parts either covering the invest- ing membrane, or lined by it, any sympathizing affection with it in the adhesive stages of inflammation. Thus the peritoneum is both a lining and a covering, and so is the pleura. If the peritoneum which lines the cavity of the abdomen inflames, its inflammation does not affect the pa- rietes of the abdomen ; or if the peritoneum covering any of the viscera is inflamed, it does not affect the viscera. Thus the peritoneum shall be universally inflamed, as in the puerperal fever, yet the parietes of the abdomen and the proper coats of the intestines shall not be affected ; on the other hand, if the parietes of the abdomen or the proper coats of the intestines are inflamed, the peritoneum shall not be affected. The same principle will lead to distinctions between an inflammation of the lungs and that of the pleura; but I suspect that the reticular or connecting substance, which joins the air-cells of the lungs, has a greater sympathetic affection with the air-cells, or reciprocally with each other, than the before-mentioned parts; and this may arise from the thinness of the air-cells. And it is also upon the same principle that inflamma- tion of the pia mater is seldom continued into the substance of the brain, although the pia mater may be in some degree considered as a continu- ation of the same vessels. Contiguity of parts does not communicate inflammation. Thus when an intestine is inflamed the inflammation is not communicated to the peritoneum, lining the abdomen, although in contact; but I have already observed it produces somewhat of a soreness, even to the external touch; but if continuity by adhesions takes place,then inflammation will be con- tinued from the one into the other. The second cause of the limitation of inflammation is simple contact. I have already observed, that exposure of internal surfaces becomes an immediate cause of inflammation ; and when it extends further than the surface of exposure, it is then by continued sympathy only, and that a whole cavity, if wholly exposed, will wholly acquire the inflammation; but we may now observe, that although a cavity is opened and so far rendered imperfect, yet simple contact of its sides renders it perfect again, and sets bounds to the immediate cause. To explain this further, we may observe that there is no such thing in an animal as empty space, exclusive of outlets or reservoirs, which cannot be reckoned internal or circumscribed cavities, for they are perfect by not being such. Every