508 EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION, AND ITS and commencement of suppuration, owing to a variety of circumstances. First, some constitutions much more easily fall into this state than others, havingless powers of resistance. The quantity of incurable disease must be such as can affect the constitution, and in whatever situation or in whatever parts, it will be always as to the quantity of disease in those situations or parts in the constitution, which will make the time to vary very considerably. In many diseases it would appear that the manner of coming on retards the commencement of the hectic, such as lumbar abscesses. But when such abscesses are put into that state in which the constitution is to make its efforts towards a cure, but is not equal to the task, then the hectic commences. It takes its rise from a variety of causes, but which I shall divide into two species, with regard to diseased parts, viz. the parts vital and the parts not vital. Bite only difference between these two is probably merely in time, with respect to its coming on, and its progress when come on : but what is very similar to the disease of a vital part, is quan- tity of incurable disease. flie causes of hectic, arising from diseases of the vital parts, may be many, of which a great proportion would not produce the hectic if they were in any other part of the body; such, for instance, as the formation of tumours, either in, or so as to press upon some vital part, or a part whose functions are immediately connected with life. Scirrhi in the stomach or mesenteric glands, which tumours anywhere else would not produce the hectic; many complaints too of vital parts, as diseased lungs, liver, etc., all of these produce the hectic, and much sooner than if the parts were not vital. In many cases where those causes of the hectic come on quickly, it frequently follows so quick upon the sympa- thetic fever that the one seems to run into the other: this I have often seen in the lumbar abscess. They also produce symptoms according to the nature of the part injured, as coughs, when in the lungs ; sickness and vomiting, when in the stomach; and probably bring on many other complaints, as dropsies, jaundice, etc., but which are not peculiar to the hectic. When the hectic arises from a disease in a part not vital, it sooner or ’ater commences, according as it is in the power of the parts to heal, or continue the disease. If far from the source of the circulation, with the same quantity of disease, it will come on sooner. When in parts not vital, it is generally in those parts where so great a quantity of dis- ease can take place (without the power of being diminished in size, as is the case with the diseases in most joints*,) as to affect the constitu- * The cavity of a joint is such as not readily to become smaller tinder disease, as in the soft parts, which was described in the contraction of sores.