101 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. to take a view of all these systems, each should be considered apart, with all its peculiarities or connexions, together with the different sy- stems, as they gradually creep into one another, some being perfectly distinct, while others partake more or less of both. The complete sy- stem is always to be considered as the most perfect, although it may be- long in other respects to a more imperfect order of animals. It has been supposed by physiologists that as the blood is found to consist of different parts, or rather properties, that certain parts or pro- perties were determined to certain parts of the body, for particular pur- poses ; but from the frequent anastomosis of arteries, the great variety in their number and origin, and the different courses which they take in different bodies, it is very evident that there can be no particular blood sent to any part of the body, where the whole blood can circulate. Many unnatural situations of parts show this. For instance, the kid- neys sometimes have one artery only on one side, and two., three, or four on the other: on one side they may arise from the aorta as high nearly as the superior mesenteric, and on the other as low almost as the division into the two iliacs; and in some cases a kidney has been formed in the pelvis, and the artery has arisen from the iliac. The spermatic arteries too, sometimes, arise on one side from the aorta, and on the ■ other from the emulgents or the arteria capsulse renalis. If there was a particular blood sent to every gland, we should expect to find urine secreted in the testicle, when its artery arose from the emulgent; but as the blood visibly consists of different parts in those animals we arc most acquainted with, and whose physiology is probably best known to us, and as one part of the blood can be traced in the vessels, we can determine with sufficient accuracy the proportions of blood sent, as well as the different kinds. Thus, the red part of the blood informs us how far it is carried; and we find that our coloured injections nearly cor- respond with this information. I may here first remind the reader that the red globules are the grosser part of the blood, and therefore wherever these exist we have the blood with all its parts in due proportion and unseparated; but the construc- tion in many parts of an animal is such that the red blood is excluded, and this also excludes every coloured powder we can inject; the vascu- larity, therefore, of such parts is not known, as has been mentioned already. Through them the coagulating lymph only can pass, and probably the serum, for the simple nourishment of the parts. Of this nature are tendons or tendinous parts, ligaments, elastic ligaments, cartilages, especially those of joints, the cornese of the eye, &c. Even the brain and nerves have not the red blood pushed so far into their substance as many other parts have : we see therefore that the whole blood is not conveyed to all parts alike, and this we must suppose to