ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 597 rism, the carotid artery, as being near the heart, was selected for that purpose. Mr. Hunter having laid bare the carotid artery of a dog, for above an inch in length, having removed its external coat, and afterwards dissected off the other coats, layer after layer, till what remained was so thin that the blood was plainly to be seen through it, left the dog to himself. In about three weeks the dog was killed and the parts examined, when it appeared that the two sides of the wound having closed upon the ar- tery, the whole of the surrounding parts were consolidated, forming a strong bond of union, and the artery itself was neither increased nor diminished in size. This experiment appeared very conclusive, as the coats of the artery were weakened to a much greater degree, without dilatation, than can ever happen from accident in the living body, independent of morbid affection. But it was objected, on the other hand, that the parts hav- ing been left to themselves, immediately closed upon the weakened por- tion of the artery, and, being cemented together by the coagulated blood, effectually secured it against any dilatation. To try the force of this objection, I made the following experiment. I laid bare the femoral artery of a dog, about two inches below Pou- part’s ligament, for about an inch in length, and dissected off the coats, till the haemorrhage from the vasa vasorum was considerable, and the circulating blood was distinctly seen through the internal membrane of the artery. The haemorrhage soon stopped by exposure, the surface was wiped dry, and afterwards covered with a dossil of lint, to prevent the sides of the wound from uniting. The dog continued very well, and the wound healed up from the bottom; after six weeks the dog was killed, and the artery was injected, that it might be examined with greater accuracy. It was not perceptibly enlarged or diminished, and its coats at this part had recovered their natural thickness and appearance. The results of these experiments confirmed Mr. Hunter in his opinion that the artery, in cases of aneurism, is in a diseased state, and led him to believe that the disease often extends along the artery for some way from the sac; and that the cause of failure in the common operation arises from tying a diseased artery, which is incapable of union, in the time necessary for the separating of the ligature. 1 he femoral and popliteal arteries are portions of the same trunk, pre- senting themselves on different sides of the thigh, and are readily come at in either situation ; but where the artery is passing from the one side to the other, it is more buried in the surrounding parts, and cannot be exposed without some difficulty. In performing the operation for the popliteal aneurism, especially when