382 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. llie constitution or a part is in a state of perfect quietude or health; in which [state] we find that the fluids are, and ought to be, in a large quantity ; but in a state of inflammation, or increased powers and actions, those proportions do not correspond, at least in the parts inflamed ; and by producing the equilibrium between the two, suitable to such a state, tlie body becomes, so far as this one circumstance can affect it, in a state of health, and this in many cases will cast the balance in favour of health. It is not, however, sufficient to produce this effect in all in- flammations. How far taking the blood from parts, peculiarly situated with respect to the parts inflamed, is more efficacious, I believe, is not yet determined, as bleeding in the left side for an inflammation in the right, upon the supposed principle of derivation, which might be classed with remote sympathy ; but so far as the loss of the blood acts mechanically, viz. so far as it simply empties the vessels, it certainly can have no more effect than if taken in any other way; nor can it affect the living principle, either universally or locally, more in this mode than in any other. But how far it can affect the sympathizing principle I do not know. Bleeding is often performed from no constitutional indication, but only as a preventive arising from experience, such as in consequence of considerable accidents, as blows on the head, fractured bones, &c.; but this is not to the present purpose. ยง.11. The Use of Medicines internally, and of Local Appli- cations in Inflammation. Everything given to the body, or applied to the part inflamed, that can abate inflammation, or its effects in the constitution, may be called medicine. Such, therefore, divide themselves into constitutional and local. The first will be internal, the second external; but whichsoever way they are applied, they that tend to lessen inflammation have their effects local: for mercury, although given internally for a venereal ulcer in the throat, yet acts locally on the disease ; but those that tend to re- move constitutional affections have their effects constitutional. The internal medicines generally ordered for the resolution of inflam- mation are such as tend to have similar effects to that which is produced by bleeding, namely, lowering the constitution or the action of the parts, and this has usually been performed principally by purges; and the me- dicines that were given to remove or lessen the effects of inflammation on the constitution, have been such as generally tend to lessen fever, or the effects that the inflammation has upon the constitution.