554 OF TIIE TREATMENT OF GUN-SIIOT WOUNDS. 5. Where there is some extraneous body which can with very little trouble be extracted, and where the mischief by delay will probably be greater than that arising from the dilatation. 6. Where some internal part is misplaced, which can be replaced im- mediately in its former position, such as in wounds in the belly, where some of the viscera are protruded, and it becomes necessary to perform the operation of gastroraphia ; which is to be done in this case in the same manner as if the accident arose from any other cause; but the treatment should be different, for gun-shot cases cannot heal by the first intention, on account of the slough that is to ensue. 7. hen some vital part is pressed, so that its functions are lost or much impaired, such as will often happen from fractures of the skull, fractures of the ribs, sternum, etc., in short, when anything can be done to the part after the opening is made for the present relief of the pa- tient, or the future good arising from it. If none of these circumstances has happened, then I think we should be very quiet. Balls that enter any of the larger cavities, such as the abdomen or thorax, need not have their wounds dilated, except something else is necessary to be done to the contained parts, for it is impossible to follow the ball; therefore they are commonly not opened, and yet we find them do very well. Balls that enter any part where they cannot be followed, such as into the bones of the face, need not have the wound in the skin in the least enlarged, as it can give no assistance to the other part of the wound, which is a bony canal. The following cases are strongly in proof of this, being respectively instances of both modes of practice. I was sent for to an officer who was wounded in the cheek by a ball, and who had all the symptoms of an injured brain ; upon examining the parts, I found that the ball had passed directly backwards through the cheek-bone; therefore, from the symptoms and from the direction of the wound, I suspected that the ball had gone through the basis of the skull into the brain, or at least had produced a depression of the skull there. I enlarged the external wound, and with my fingers could feel the coronoid process of the lower jaw; I found that the ball had not entered the skull, but had struck against it about the temporal process of the sphenoid bone, which it had broke, and afterwards passed down on the inside of the lower jaw. With a pair of small forceps I extracted all I could of the loose pieces of bone: lie soon recovered from his stu- por, and also from his wound. The ball afterwards caused an inflam- mation at the angle of the lower jaw, and was extracted. The good which I proposed by opening and searching for extraneous bodies and loose pieces of bone was the relieving of the brain ; but as the ball had not entered the skull, and as none of the bones had been driven into the