GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 88 at first that the extravasations there must consist of venal blood ; but, from reasoning, I could hardly allow myself to think so ; for whatever might be the beginning of the disease, it was impossible it could con- « tinue afterwards wholly venal, especially when the blood was found in a considerable quantity; because, in many cases, great mischief was done to both systems of vessels, and the arteries once ruptured would I give the greatest quantity of blood : but to ascertain this with more cer- 1 tainty, I made the following experiment. I wounded the femoral artery of a puppy obliquely ; the opening in the skin was made at some distance from the artery, by a couching needle; the blood that came from the small orifice in the skin was florid. The cellular membrane swelled up very much; about five minutes after- ; wards I punctured the tumour, and the blood was fluid. In ten mi- i nutes I punctured it again; the blood was thinner, and more serous, but still florid. In fifteen minutes I punctured it again: at first only serum issued ; upon squeezing, a little blood came, but still florid : the mass now seemed to be principally coagulated, which prevented further trials. Some days after, when I cut into the swelled part, I found the blood as dark as common venal blood; so that here the change had taken place after coagulation. When I had plaster of Paris applied to my face to make a mould, in | the taking it oft' it produced a kind of suction on the fore part of the nose, which I felt; and when the plaster was removed, on observing the part it was red, as if the cells of the skin were loaded with extravasated blood ; this was then of a florid red, but it soon became of a dark purple, which showed that it was arterial blood, and that by stagnating in the cells of the body it became of the colour of venal blood. Blood may even be rendered dark in the larger arteries by a short stagnation. I laid bare the carotid artery of a dog for about two inches in length; I then tied a thread round it at each end, leaving a space of two inches in length between each ligature, filled with blood; the external wound was stitched loosely up: several hours afterwards I opened the stitches, and observed in this vessel that the blood was co- i agulated, and of a dark colour, the same as in the vein. Thus, I have j also seen, when a tourniquet has been applied round the thigh, and the j artery divided, that when it was slackened, the first blood came out of a dark colour, but what followed was florid. This I have seen in am- putations, when a tourniquet had been applied for a considerable time; 1 and it is commonly observed in performing the operation for aneurism. July, 1779, Mr. Bromfield had a patient in St. George’s Hospital I with an aneurism of the crural artery, about the middle of the thigh : 1 the artery had been dilated about three inches in length. The opera-