OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 413 spontaneous inflammations which are to suppurate. If this observation is just, how contradictory must this mode of treatment be to common practice, when spontaneous inflammation has already taken place ; for let me ask, where is the difference between an inflammation with a wound, and one without? And also, what should be the difference in the application to a part that is to inflame (while that application is made to the part), and one applied to an inflammation which has already taken place ? The answer 1 should make to such a question is, there is no difference. Wounds that are to suppurate, I have already observed, are first to go through the adhesive and suppurative inflammation. These inflam- mations in a wound are exactly similar to those spontaneous inflamma- tions which suppurate and form an abscess, or those inflammations which ulcerate on the surface, and form a sore. The applications to these which are now in practice, I have formerly observed, are poultices and fomentations; these, however, appear to be applied without much critical exactness or discrimination, for they are applied before suppuration has taken place, and where it is not intended it should take place; they are applied to inflammations where it is wished they should suppurate, and applied after suppuration has taken place. Now, with respect to suppuration itself, abstracted from all other con- siderations, the indication cannot be the same in all of those states ; but if poultices and fomentations are found to be of real sendee in those two stages of the disease, then there must be something common to both, for which they are of service, abstracted from simple suppuration. I also formerly observed, that poultices were of sendee when the inflam- mation had attacked the skin, either of itself, or when an abscess had approached so near that the skin had become inflamed, and that this service consisted in keeping the skin soft and moist. This appears to me to be the use of a poultice in an inflammation, either before suppu- ration or after, as inflammation still exists, till it is opened ; for inflam- mation is necessary in an abscess while it is making its approaches to the skin, which I have called the ulcerative; and then, and only then, it begins to subside ; it is therefore still proper, inasmuch as it is of ser- vice to inflammation: so far, therefore, their practice is right and con- sistent, as the first reason exists through the whole; but when applied to inflamed parts, which are meant not to suppurate, their reasoning or principles upon which they applied it must fail them, although the application is still very proper. If my first proposition is just, viz. that wounds which are allowed to suppurate are similar to inflammations that are idso to suppurate, then let us see how far the two practices agree with this proposition. Lint,