OOS OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. skin of some other part, and where it can be readily felt; the question is. should such a ball be cut out ? If the skin is bruised by the ball coming against it, so that we may imagine that this part will slough off, in that case I see nothing to hinder opening it, because the part is dead ; there- fore no more inflammation can arise from the opening than otherwise would take place upon allowing the slough to be thrown off; while, on the other hand, I should also suppose as little good to arise from it, be- cause the ball will come out of itself when the part sloughs off; how- ever, it may be suspected that before the slough falls off the ball may so alter its situation that it will be impossible to extract it by that opening ; however, I should very much doubt the ball altering its course under such circumstances, for if the skin was so much bruised as to slough, inflammation would soon come on, and confine the ball to that place; however, it always gives comfort to the patient to have the ball extracted. But if the ball is only to be felt, and the skin quite sound, I would in that case advise letting it alone, till the wound made by the entrance of the ball had inflamed and was suppurating; my reasons for it are these : First, we find that most wounds get well when the ball is left in, (ex- cepting it has done other mischief than simply passing through the soft parts,) and that very little inflammation attends the wound where the ball lodges, only that where it enters ; the inflammation not arising so much from the injury done by the ball as from the parts being there exposed to the suppurative inflammation, if it is immediately removed. There is always a greater chance of a slough where the ball enters than where it rests, arising from the greater velocity of the ball; for beyond where the slough is the parts unite by the first intention. Secondly, in those cases where the ball passes through and through we have two inflammations, one at each orifice, instead of the one at the entrance; or a continued inflammation through and through, if the ball has passed with great velocity. Where the ball makes its exit, the inflammation passes further along the passage of the ball than when the wound has been healed up to the ball, and then cut out after- wards ; so that by opening immediately the irritation will be extended further, and of course the disposition for healing will be prevented. If this is the case, I think that two wounds should not be made at the same time; and what convinces me more of it is, that I have seen cases where the balls were not found at first, nor even till after the pa- tients had got well of their wounds; and these balls were found very near the skin. They gave no trouble (or else they would have been found sooner); no inflammation came upon the parts, and they were afterwards extracted and did well. Again, I have seen cases where the