CONSEQUENCES ON THE CONSTITUTION. 507 effects are going on towards health now as well as before; and if the patient dies of any of those diseases, it is not from the cause, nor from the immediate effect, viz. the local disease, but from the effect which the preceding operations, joined with the healing, have on some consti- tutions. They till seem to derive their origin from the same root, viz. from till the foregoing processes, which we have been describing; but they are altogether too extensive for our present subject. ยง. 1. Of the Hectic. I have now described the injuries of which inflammation is a conse- quence ; the progress of that action in different parts ; its effects on the constitution; together with the mode of treatment of both, and have carried it through its various steps to a perfect restoration. I have also already mentioned that the act of absorption affects some constitutions; but I shall now take notice that nature is not always equal to those sa- lutary processes, and hence the constitution sometimes becomes parti- cularly affected, producing symptoms different from those formerly de- scribed, and which have been called the hectic. This disease is one of our remote constitutional sympathetic affec- tions, and appears to arise from a very different origin from the other sympathizing effects before mentioned. When it is a consequence of a local disease, it has commonly been preceded by the first process of the former, viz. inflammation and suppuration, but has not been able to ac- complish granulation and cicatrization, so as to complete the cure. It may be said to be a constitution now become affected with a local dis- ease or irritation, which the constitution is conscious of, and of which it cannot relieve itself, and cannot cure; for while the inflammation lasts, which is only preparatory, and an immediate effect of most injuries, and in parts which can only affect the constitution, so as to call up its powers, there can be no hectic. We should distinguish well between a hectic arising from a load com- plaint entirely, where the constitution is good, but only disturbed by too great an irritation ; and a hectic arising principally from the badness of the constitution, which does not dispose the parts for a healing state ; for in the first, it is only necessary to remove the part (if removable) and then all will do well; but in the other we gain nothing by a removal, except the wound made by the operation is much less, and much more easily put into a local method of cure; so that this bad constitution falls less under this (the operation taken into the account) than under the lorincr state ; but all this depends on nice discrimination. The hectic comes on at very different periods after the inflammation,