167 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. even when the more contracted parts were nearest the heart, and this merely from the difference of action in the muscular power ; for when that was destroyed by stretching, the parts contracted equally in both. Exp. 1. A circular section of the aorta ascendens, when slit up and opened into a plane, measured inches transversely; on being stretched, it lengthened to lOf; the stretching power being removed, it contracted again to six inches, which we must suppose to he the middle state of the vessel. Hence the vessel appeared to have gained by stretching 4 an inch in width or rather circumference, which may he attributed to the relaxation of its muscular fibres, whose contraction must have been equal to ; 6 inches being the natural size, or most contracted state of the elastic power. Exp. 2. A circular section of the aorta at the origin of the first in- tercostal artery, measuring 4-i inches, extended by stretching to 7} inches ; it contracted again to 4 inches, and therefore gained -iy. Exp. 3. A circular section of the aorta at the lower part of the tho- rax, on being stretched, and being allowed to contract again, gained -,V- Exp. 4. A circular section of the iliac artery, measuring 2 inches, when stretched and allowed to contract again, measured 2TV inches, and therefore gained £. Exp. 5. A circular section of the axillary artery, measuring 1 inch, when stretched and contracted again, measured H inch, therefore gained + . Exp. 6. A circular section of the carotid artery, measuring T“T of an inch, when stretched, measured if and one half; and when contracted again, if; therefore had gained . Exp. 7. A circular section of the crural artery, measuring if, when contracted after being stretched, measured liT inch, therefore gained-J-. Exp. 8. The humeral artery, near the joint of the elbow, in a con- tracted state, was thicker in its coats than the axillary; the circum- ference of the artery in that state being Tv and one half; after being stretched and contracted again, it measured T9T, therefore gained f and one half. Exp. 9. A circular section of the radial artery being taken, was found so contracted as hardly to be at all pervious; and the coats, especially the inner, much thicker than even the humeral: when slit up it scarcely measured XV of an inch; and when stretched and allowed to contract again, T*T; it therefore gained which was about the whole contrac- tion of the artery. '1 o see how far this power of recovery in the same artery took place at different distances from the source of the circulation, 1 made the fol-