OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 149 lan the voluntary. Can we believe that so thin a muscle as the colon f a horse could squeeze out its contents, consisting of a column of dung bout eight inches diameter, if those involuntary muscles had no more trength than the muscles of an extremity ? When we see the bladder f urine throwing out its contents through a large tube, to a distance, erhaps two yards beyond its extreme end, we must suppose a much ; xeater force exerted than could belong to any such quantity of volun- iry muscle. For I believe that by grasping the bladder with both hands ive could not make the water flow out to an equal distance3. It may e here observed, that the power of involuntary contraction commonly emains longer than that of the voluntary, though I believe not in all nstances; which difference produces a greater variety in the former han in the latter. Thus the muscular action of the arteries is longer detained than that of the heart. Elasticity is a property of matter (whether animal or not) which ren- lers it capable of restoring itself to its natural position, after having >een acted upon by some mechanical power, but having no power of action arising out of itself. This is exactly the reverse of muscular con- traction. Muscles, as has been already observed, have the power of contraction and of cessation, which last is called relaxation, but not the oower of elongation, which would be an act of restoration, such as ■exists in elasticity. A muscle, therefore, has the power of action within ‘ tself, by which it produces its effects, but is obliged to other powers or its restoration, so as to be able to act again ; whereas elasticity is obliged to other powers to alter the position of the parts, so as to re- quire recover}7 or restoration : but this it is capable of doing itself; and by this power it produces its effects, becoming a cause of motion in other bodies. A body possessed of this property, when brought from the state of rest, is always endeavouring to arrive at this state, which it also endeavours to preserve; and it is capable of supporting itself in this state in proportion to the degree of elasticity which may belong to it. * [It may be doubted whether the colon or the bladder ever act alone. Certainly the diaphragm and abdominal muscles cooperate in all ordinary cases. In injuries of the back, the rectum is frequently able to retain and expel the feces, although the bladder is perfectly incapable of evacuating the urine. Now they both derive their nerves from the same part, but there is this difference between them,—the sphincter ani being re- laxed, the fibres ofthe rectum have no difficulty in expelling its contents, but the urine has to be forced through a long and narrow canal at the same time that the bladder is generally much distended before the nisus arises, in consequence of which the muscle of the bladder acts to the greatest possible disadvantage ; for the aperture and compressing force being given, the rapidity and projection of the stream will lie inversely as the su- perficies of the containing vessel.]