GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 73 It becomes a question how the change is produced in each. More attention has been paid to the mode in which it gets the scarlet colour than the modena (though both probably are of equal importance), because it was believed that life in some degree depended on this colour. fectly arterialized in the lungs when the eighth pair of nerves was divided; and, as the counterpart of this fact, it is notorious that the blood is not venalised in inflamed parts. There is no improbability, therefore, in supposing that the whole function of nutrition may be more or less partially suspended for a time, in consequence of which the blood may pass through the capillaries of the body without undergoing any change, or at least any change commensurate with the effect produced in the lungs. It more frequently happens, however, that the blood is black in the arteries than red ; in the veins; this appearance depending on the reverse of those causes which have been i above mentioned. Thus, during the congestive stage of fevers the blood exhibits a black appearance arising from the remora of the circulation. The same thing also happens in cholera, apoplexy, epilepsy, asphyxia, poisoning from opium, and under a variety of other circumstances where the respiration is impeded or the circulation ma- terially retarded. The principal points of difference which distinguish arterial front venous blood are comprehended in the following table; Arterial. Venous. Specific gravity. ..{Davy, Phil. Trans. 1814.) 1051 1049 Capacity for heat. (76.) 913 903 Temperature.... •(/&•) 1° more. 1° less. Carbon r 50-2 55-7 Oxygen Nitrogen ■ {Macaire and Marcet, op.cil., p.400.) J 26-3 16-3 21-7 16-2 Hydrogen l 6-6 64 Electricity .{Bellingeri, Exper. in Elect. Sang.)...... less. more. Colour / bright J brownish or 1 scarlet. | modena red. Odour (Magendie, Physiologie.) strong. faint. Coagulation.... ..( Thackrah.) quicker. slower. Clot to serum... ••(»■) more. less. Fibrin ..{Alison, Physiology.) more. less. Carbonic acid... ..{Stevens, op. cit.) none. appreciable quantities. f great sup f weak sup- Functions .(Kay on the Physiology of Asphyxia,)... 4 porter of 4 porter of life. ( life. Besides these differences, there are probably some others, arising from the different degrees of vitality possessed by the two bloods; but these can only be investigated in their effects upon the solids. In connexion with this subject it may not be improper to advert to the diversities of the blood in different vessels of the same body. Thackrah found that the portal blood of dogs differed from blood from the jugular veins in containing much less albumen and haunatosine, in coagulating more rapidly, in having a muddy brownish colour, as if it had been defectively elaborated, and in some other minor particulars. {Op. cit., p. 70.) Stoker made similar observations. {Op. cit., part ii. p. 31.) Now it must be manifest that these remarks are only applicable to blood from different parts of the venous system. In the arteries it must be the same everywhere ; but in the veins it must be continually liable to variation, in consequence of the abstractions which arc