576 OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. ยง. 8. Of the Treatment of the Constitution. Bleeding is recommended in gun-shot wounds, and in such a manner as if of more service in them than wounds in general; but I do not see this necessity more than in other wounds that have done the same mis- chief, and where the same inflammation and other consequences are ex- pected. Bleeding is certainly to be used here, as in all wounds where there is a strong and full habit, and where we expect considerable inflammation and symptomatic fever; but if it is such a gun-shot wound as not to produce considerable effects, either local or constitutional, I would not bleed, merely because it is a gun-shot wound: and from what I have seen, I think that inflammation, &c. does not run so high in these wounds as I should have at first expected. I believe this is the case with all contused wounds where death in the part is a consequence : a contused wound is somewhat similar to the effects of a caustic; for while the separation of the dead part is forming, the suppurative in- flammation is retarded, and therefore not so violent; but this can only be said of those wounds which are not complicated with any other in- jury except what is produced by the balls passing through soft parts ; for if a bone is broken, it will inflame like any other compound fracture. It is often of service, in the time of inflammation, to bleed in the part with leeches or by punctures with a lancet: this helps to empty the there are extensive injuries of the joints ; 3rd, where there are compound fractures close to the joints, especially if conjoined with lacerated vessels or nerves, or much commi- nution of the bone, particularly if the femur is the injured bone ; 4th, where there is extensive loss of substance, or disorganization of the soft parts, by round shot; 5th, where the bones have been fractured or dislocated without rupture of the skin, or great loss of parts, but with great injury or disorganization of the ligaments, &c., and injuries of the vessels, followed by extensive internal effusions of blood among the soft parts. From the returns of the British army in the Peninsula, Mr. Guthrie found that at Toulouse 38 eases out of 48 terminated favourably when amputation was immediately performed ; 41 of these operations were of the thigh and leg, and 7 of the arm. Of the unfavourable cases, 3 were amputations of the thigh, performed as high up as is practi- cable by the common operation. Of 52 secondary operations, 15 of the superior extre- mity and 37 of the thigh, as many as 3 of the former were lost, and 8 of the latter; and altogether of 842 amputations performed at the Hospital Stations between the 21st of June and 24tli of December, 1813, the comparative loss of secondary or delayed ope- rations, and of primary or immediate operations, was as follows: Secondary. Primary. Upper extremities 12 to- 1 Lower extremities 3 to 1 Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds, 2nd edit., pp. 150, 220.]