THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 471 I have already observed that the interstitial absorption is not attended with, nor does it produce, suppuration. §.4. Of the Progressive Absorption. The first or principal mode of this action is the removing of those surfaces that are immediately contiguous to the irritating causes, which is an absorption of necessity. These causes, I have observed, are of three kinds : one, pressure; another, irritating substances ; and the third, considerable inflammation in a weak part, especially those new-formed parts that become a substitute for the old. Absorption from pressure is the removal of the part pressed, which may arise from a number of causes. There are tumours which, by pressing upon neighbouring parts, produce it; the pressure of the blood in aneurisms produces it, etc.; also that surface of an abscess, or any other extraneous body which is nearest the external surface*1; or the ulceration of that part of the surface of the body which is in contact with a body pressing, as the buttocks or hips of those who lie long upon their backs; the heels of many people who lie long in the same position, as is the case with those who are under the cure of a fracture of the leg, in which case it seems to be a substitute for mortification, and is rather a proof of the strength of the patient; for if very weak constitutionally, the same parts cer- tainly mortify ; as also the constant pressure of chains on the legs of prisoners, and harness on the breasts of horses. 1 he second of these causes of absorption is the action of irritating substances, such as the tears passing constantly over the cheeks; as also many irritating medicines, producing too much action, and probably at the same time weakeuing the parts. The third is the formation of an ulcer or sore on a surface, in consequence of some disease, which has been the cause of inflammation. Bones are subject to the same effect from pressure as the soft parts, as in consequence of aneurisms; as also from the pressure from tumours : likewise in cases of the spina ventosa, where in some there is nothing to be found in the cavity of the swelling but blood coagulated, in others a grumous or curdly substance. This blood or curdly substance increasing, continues the pressure, and the in- side of the bone is in time absorbed. I have already observed that the progressive absorption is divisible into two kinds; one without suppuration, the other with. I shall now » [“ also that surface of an abscess which is in contact with the pus, or any other ex- traneous body.”—Original text, j