473 THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. whole length into the brain, seemingly by the simple effects of pressure ; but the outer end of it, by pressing against the dura mater, had produced the absorbing disposition in that membrane, so that this membrane was entirely gone at that part. The same irritation from pressure had been given to the skull, which also was absorbed at this part; after which the same disposition was continued on to the scalp. As these respective parts gave way, the tumour was pushed further and further out, so that its outer end came to be in this new passage the absorbents were making for it in the scalp, by which it probably would have been discharged in time if the man had lived; but it was so connected with the vital parts that the man died before the parts could relieve themselves. While all these exterior parts were in a state of absorption, the internal parts which pressed upon the inner end of the tumour, and which pressure was suf- ficient to push it out, did not in the least \dcerate; nor did the tumour itself, which was pressed upon all sides, in the least give way in its sub- stance. No matter was to be observed here from either the dura mater, the unconnected edge of the bones of the skull, nor from that part of the scalp which had given way ; and perhaps the reason was, the tumour being a living part, and not an extraneous one. The general effect was, however, similar to the progress of an abscess, insomuch that it was on that side nearest to the external surface of the body that the irritation for absorption took place. This first species of the absorption of whole parts is seldom or never attended with pain. Its progress is so very slow as to keep pace with our sensations, and in many cases it is not even attended with inflam- mation. I believe that this absorption seldom if ever affects the constitution, although in some cases it takes its rise from affections of the constitution, as in the cases of the absorption of callus. ยง.5. Of Absorption attended with Suppuration, which I have called Ulceration. I shall now give an account of that part of the actions of the absorb- ing system which I call ulceration, and which is the second of our first division respecting the formation of pus, viz. that which is connected \\ ith the formation of that fluid, being either a consequence of it, or producing it, and is that which in all cases constitutes an ulcer. It is this which principally constitutes the progressive absorption*. * I have given it the term ulceration, because ulcer is a word in use to express a sore, and it is by this process that many ulcers are formed. The operations produced