232 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. with the small force required to stop the current of blood in any large artery, 6eems only explicable on this principle. 3. Blushing, and partial determinations of blood in health and disease. In fevers the heart is observed to act with great energy at the same time that the whole capillary system is proportionably contracted, while, on the other hand, local determinations and excitements are perfectly compatible with a feeble action of their viscus. No fixed relation, in short, seems to exist between the activity of the central organ and the peripheral circulation. 4. Nearly allied to this is the de- rivation of blood to a wounded vessel or part after the extraction of the heart; and the generation, as it were, of new vessels capable of admitting red blood. 5. The liability of the capillary circulation to be retarded or entirely stopped by causes operating on the nervous system, notwithstanding that the heart’s action continues unabated; for it must be evident that the power which can resist the impulse of the heart at one time, may assist it at another. 6. The different velocities of the blood in the same series of capillaries, and the liability of these velocities to be reversed from slight causes, is sufficient proof of the power of these vessels to control the local circulation. 7. Tbe power of the capillaries to carry on the local circulation after the removal of the heart has been attested by numerous observers. Guillot remarked it in the frog’s foot, when separated from the body, for nearly half an hour, (Journ. de Phys., par Majendie, xi. 170.) although the progression of the blood in such cases has generally been observed to be very irregular. 8. Hence the vacuity of the arterial system after death, and the gorged state of the veins; and hence also the disappearance of the blush of inflammation after death; but in deaths from lightning the arterial system is found full of blood, con- trary to what generally happens; for the cause of death being such as to destroy the tonicity of the vessels, the capillary tubes are now no longer able to pump the blood from one system of vessels into the other. In asphyxia the right ventricle continues to act vigorously for some time after apparent death, although it is unable to propel its contents forward through the pulmonary capillaries, in consequence of these vessels being paralysed by the black blood (see note, p. 158.). 9. The experiments of Hunter and Wedemeyer before mentioned can only be explained on this hypothesis (p. 158); and, lastly, the analogy which arises from the foregoing phenomena, that the blood when it gets into the capillary structure falls more or less under the dominion of those laws which regulate the circulation of the inferior animals. The inference which may fairly be drawn from the whole of these facts seems to be that the capillaries possess a distributive power over the blood, so as at least to regulate the local circulation independently of the central organ, in obedience to the necessities of each part. In the lower animals a slow circulation only of the blood is required, because the respiratory organs being here distributed over the whole body, and the systems of black and red blood being imperfectly preserved, a rapid circulation would answer no object: here, therefore, the capillaries suffice. In proportion, however, as the respiratory organs become more centralized so does the distinction between the two bloods become more definite and the necessity for arterial blood more imperative; so that here a heart becomes necessary, in order that the blood may be subjected to the influence of the air in a complete manner, and be supplied with due rapidity to the different organs of the body. It is possible that the capillaries may possess a propel- lent as well as a distributive power, and thus vicariously assist the heart under certain circumstances. I do not think it probable, however, that they concur to any great ex- tent in the ordinary circulation. 8. Vital attractions and repulsions, existing either between the vessels and their contained fluids, or else between the different particles of the fluids themselves, is another agency to which many of the preceding phenomena have been ascribed. The following are the grounds for this opinion: 1. The capillaries appear as mere inert tubes under the microscope. 2. A determinate circulation or cydosis is carried on in