339 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. ' when proper cases occur, I was led to make such experiments on ani- mals as appeared to me proper for determining the fact; but in none of • them could I ever increase the inflammatory heat so as to make it equal t to the natural heat of the blood at its source. Experiment II. I made an incision into the thorax of a dog ; the wound was made about the centre of the right side, and the thermo- meter pushed down, so as to come in contact, or nearly so, with the diaphragm. The degree of heat was 101°; a large dossil of lint was if put into the wound to prevent its healing by the first intention, and covered over by a sticking- plaster. The dog was affected with a shiver- ing. The day following the lint was extracted, and the thermometer again introduced; the degree of heat appeared exactly the same, viz. 101°. JThis dog recovered. Experiment III. An oblique incision was made about two inches deep into the gluteal muscles of an ass, and into this wound was intro- duced a tin canula about an inch and half long, so that half an inch of the bottom of the wound projected beyond the canula; into this canula y was introduced a wooden plug, wdiich projected half an inch beyond the ■canula, so as to fill up the bottom of the wound, and which kept that part of the wound from uniting. The whole was fastened into the wound by threads attached to the skin. Immediately upon making the wound the ball of the thermometer was introduced into it to the bottom, and the mercury rose to 100° exactly, as it did also at the same time in the vagina. On the next morning the wooden plug w-as taken out, and the ball of the thermo- meter (being previously wormed to 99°,) wos introduced down to the bottom of the wound, which projected beyond the canula, and the mer- cury rose to 100°. The wooden plug was returned and secured as be- fore. In the evening the same experiment wos repeated, and the mer- cury rose to 100°. Friday morning it rose only to 99°. Friday evening it rose to near 101-j.0. Saturday morning, 99°, and in the evening 100°. A similar experiment to this was made on a dog, and the heat wras 101°. The day following the heat was the same, as also on the third day, when suppuration was taking place. Experiment IV. Although in the experiment upon the dog, by making an opening into the thorax so as to excite an inflammation there, and to affect his constitution, the heat of the part was not increased ; yet in order to be more clear with regard to the result of such an ex- periment, a wmund was made into the abdomen of an ass, and a solution of common salt and water thrown in (about a handful to a pint of water), to excite a universal inflammation in the cavity of the abdomen, j produced great pain and uneasiness, so as to make the animal lie z 2