414 OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. I have observed, is applied to a fresh wound, which is to inflame ; and the same lint is continued through the whole of the inflammation till suppuration comes on, because it cannot be removed. Lint, considered simply as an application to fresh wounds which are to inflame, is a very bad one, for it more or less adheres to the surface of the wound, by means of the extravasated blood ; hence it becomes difficult of removal, and often shall remain in sores for months, being interwoven with the granulations, especially when applied to the surface of circumscribed cavities, such as the tunica vaginalis testis, after the operation for the hydrocele; however, this is not always the greatest inconvenience ; the circumstance of its being loaded or soaked with blood, subjects it to be- come extremely hard when it dries, which it always does before the se- paration takes place, which separation is only effected by the suppura- tion. In this way it becomes the worst dressing possible for wounds. As poultices are allowed by most to be the best application to an in- flamed part, not attended by, or a consequence of, a wound, but consi- dering it simply as an inflammation, I do conceive that the same appli- cation is the best for every inflammation, let it be from whatever cause; for the idea I have of the best dressing to a wound, simply as a wound, which is to inflame, is something that keeps soft and moist, and has no continuity of parts, so that it is easily separated. The only application of this kind is a poultice, which, from these qualities, is the very best application to a fresh wound. It keeps it soft and moist, and is at all times easily removed, either in part or the whole. The same medical advantage is gained here, as when it is applied to an inflamed part; but although it had not these advantages, yet the circumstance of being easily removed is much in its favour, especially when compared to dry lint. But a poultice, from other circumstances, cannot at all times and in all places be conveniently applied. To preserve the above properties, it is necessary there should be a mass, much too large for many purposes; but when they can be used with tolerable convenience, they are the best applications. When they cannot be applied with ease, I should still object to dry lint, and would therefore recommend the lint to be covered with some oily substance, so that the blood shall not entangle itself with the lint, but may lie soft, and come easily off. This mode of dressing should be continued for several days, or at least till fair suppuration comes on, and when that has taken place, then dry lint may be with great propriety used, except the sore is of some specific kind, which is seldom the case in fresh wounds; for accidental wounds seldom happen to specific diseases; and a wound in consequence of an operation should not be specific, because the specific affection (if