4S8 GRANULATIONS. CHAPTER VII. GRANULATIONS. We come now to trace the operations of Nature in bringing parts whose disposition, action, and structure had been preternaturally altered, either by accident or diseased dispositions, as nearly as possible to their original state. In doing this we are to consider the constitution and the parts as free from disease, because all actions which tend to the re- storation of parts are salutary, the animal powers being entirely em- ployed in repairing the loss and the injury sustained both from the cause, and arising from the course of the immediate effects, viz. in- flammation, suppuration, and ulceration: now such operations cannot certainly be looked upon as morbid. Nature having carried these operations for reparation so far as the formation of pus, she, in such cases, endeavours immediately to set about the next order of actions, which is the formation of new matter, upon such suppurating surfaces as naturally admit of it, viz. where there has been a breach of solids; so that we find following and going hand in hand with suppuration, the formation of new solids, which constitute the common surfaces of a sore. This process is called granulating, or incarnation; and the substance formed is called granulation. Granulations have, I believe, been generally supposed to be a conse- quence of, or always an attendant on, suppuration; but the formation of granulations is not confined to a breach of solids where the parts have been allowed to suppurate, either from accident or a breach of the solids in consequence of an abscess; but it takes place under other circum- stances ; for instance, when the first and second bond of union has failed, as in simple fractures, which will be noticed hereafter. Suppuration, I observed, arose in consequence of an injury having been done to the solids, so as to prevent them for some time from car- rying on their natural functions; and I also observed that it was imma- terial whether this injury had exposed their surfaces, as in cases of ac- cidents and wounds, or whether the surfaces were not exposed, as in cases of abscesses in general; for in either of them suppuration would equally take place : I likewise observed that it was not necessary that there should be a breach in the continuity of parts for suppuration to take place in many cases, because all secreting surfaces were capable of