445 OF PUS. irregular masses formed on the talc, some transparent, with determined edges, but no globules: fifteen minutes after, nearly the same. At twenty minutes there was an appearance of globules. At twenty-five minutes, there were globules in clusters ; but I could not say exactly what those globules were. At thirty-five minutes, the globules more distinct, more diffused, and numerous. At fifty-five minutes, the globules still more perfect and distinct. At seventy, the globules more irregular, and of course less distinct. At eighty-five, the globules more distinct and nu- merous. At one hundred, more irregular and less distinct, forming little masses. At two hours, the masses more transparent, and the glo- bules fewer. At two hours and a half, the masses transparent, and no distinct globules. At four hours, some transparent masses appearing to contain globules. At seven hours, distinct globules and numerous. At eight hours, the globules more distinct and somewhat larger. At nine hours, less appearance of globules. At twenty-one hours, the testicle was covered with lint, and the skin brought over and kept together with a ligature, and allowed to remain for twelve hours (which, from the first, was thirty-three hours); when it was opened it was wiped dry, and a piece of talc applied for five minutes; the quantity of fluid was very small, but containing globules small and numerous. N.B. In this time, during which the testicle was covered, strong ad- hesions took place between the testicles and tunica vaginalis, which shows that probably the inflammation moved back to the adhesive stage whenever two similar surfaces were opposed. Forty hours, the above repeated and the globules a little more di- stinct. Forty-four hours, the appearance of globules very distinct, and the pus looked like common matter diluted. Experiment II. An opening was made through the linea alba .below the navel, several inches long, into the cavity of the belly of a dog, care being taken that no blood should pass into that cavity; a piece of tide was applied to the peritonaeum so as to be covered with the fluid which lubricates that surface; to do which it was found necessary to draw it over some considerable surface. This fluid was examined in the field of the microscope, and appeared to contain small semitransparent glo- bules, few in number, swimming in a fluid. 1 he lubricating fluid in the cavity of the abdomen appears, from re- peated experiments on healthy dogs, to be so small in quantity as only to give a polish to the different surfaces, but not sufficient to have a drop collected. After five minutes, the surfaces had more moisture upon them, which being examined as before, the globular appearance was more distinct. -In fifteen minutes the surfaces were more vascular; a portion of intes-