147 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. ihinctcr ani contracts whenever the stimulus of relaxation is removed, hich may be said to produce the stimulus for contraction. Muscular actions have been divided into the voluntary, involuntary, ad mixed, which is only dividing them according to the different natu- d modes of stimuli, or causes of their action : to these a fourth might e added, where the actions are in consequence of accidental stimuli or npressions, to which both the voluntary and involuntary muscles are abject, viz. such as arise from affections of the mind *, or are the im- mediate effects of violence. The involuntary contraction should be first considered, as the more . ecessary operations of the machine are carried on by it; for the ma- hine could even exist independent of any voluntary contraction : but it ould not go on if left wholly to the voluntary contraction of the auscles, unless wre were endued with innate ideas capable of producing will. This involuntary contraction is very extensive in the system, nd is employed in carrying on a number of operations, of which the irculation is one ; and which may be said to be, in a great measure, he ceconomy of the animal within itself. The mixed kind of contraction is most to our present purpose, and is f two kinds, though it has been in general supposed to be of one kind nly, and that belonging solely to the muscles of respiration, as being a them the most conspicuous. But, in fact, we find another mode of avoluntary actions in other muscles of the body, where it answers very ■seful purposes. In these the involuntary contraction may be reckoned he natural state ; and it is a kind of permanent contraction, these nuscles only relaxing occasionally, by which means parts are sustained >r supported : the voluntary contraction of such muscles is also only •ccasional. All sphincter muscles in some degree partake of this power, aid therefore should be called muscles w'ith power of occasional relaxa- ion. For although many circular muscles may not have these mixed contractions, as the orbicularis palpebrarum, yet that muscle has a dis- >osition to contract peculiar to itself. Its relaxation is to be reckoned >f the active kind, which may be called the relaxation of watchfulness ; md it is when tired of this species of action that it contracts, which, on he contrary, may be called the contraction of sleep : or it may be con- sidered as an elongator muscle to the levator palpebrse, with a dispo- sition to remain relaxed while that muscle is contracted, but contract- ng when the elevator is tired. The natural contraction of the orbicu- laris muscle is involuntary, the relaxation, both natural and occasional, is involuntary; but it has likewise a voluntary contraction and relaxa- * Mind and will are often blended together, but will has nothing to do here. L 2