620 ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. The operation was performed on the 22nd of May; I was assisted by Dr. Marshal, and Dr. Wallis was present. When the incision through the skin had exposed the sartorius muscle, it appeared unusually large, and the fascia covering the artery was got at with difficulty, and was indistinctly seen: this I attributed to the state of the muscles, induced by the exercise which the patient had continued to use. My first attempt to secure the artery failed, from the needle passing over it, and only including a portion of the fascia. I therefore ex- posed the artery more completely, about an inch higher up the thigh, and surrounded it by a ligature : the pulsation in the tumour immedi- ately ceased, and the wound was dressed as in the former cases. The leg continued colder than the other for two days, and then regained its usual heat. On the fourth day, the dressings were removed, and the wound had a healthy appearance ; at this time there was a pulsation in the tumour. On the seventh day, he bore being moved to have his bed made, and was considered to be going on perfectly well. From some mistaken no- tion he now indulged himself in the use of wine, without my knowledge. On the ninth day, he had a violent shivering fit, which was not men- tioned to me; and the use of wine was, notwithstanding, persisted in. On the tenth day, the discharge from the wound was much increased, and the thigh and leg were swelled. On the eleventh day, there was a slight bleeding from the wound, and in the evening a similar bleeding also took place. Alarmed at this cir- cumstance, I left an assistant with the patient. The tourniquet like- wise, which had remained on the thigh, was now adjusted, in case it should be necessary to use it. On the twelfth day, at four in the morning, a violent hemorrhage came on, and at nine he died. The limb was examined next day, in the presence of Dr. Marshal, Dr. Wallis, and Mr. Colthurst. The ligature was found to have in- cluded the artery without the vein, and when the artery was laid open the space embraced by the ligature was quite white, and the coats at that part so thin as to be almost transparent; and there were also se- veral small ulcerations through the coat by which the blood had escaped: there was not the smallest union of the sides of the artery; but imme- diately above and below the ligature the inner membrane had an unusual red appearance. 1 he inner membrane had lost its usual polish, and had its surface covered with opaque white spots ; the same appearance, in a less degree, was seen in the artery near the groin. The ancurismal tumour proved to be a diseased dilatation of the popli-