376 TU K ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. for although in many cases the general habit may be relieved by blced- *nf?* the part affected, where it can act, will in all cases require this evacuation most, and local bleeding will keep nearer these proportions ; whereas taking blood from the general system is just the reverse. That local bleeding has very considerable effects on the inflamed part, is proved by the gout; for applying leeches to the part inflamed commonly relieves that part, and often almost immediately*. We find that bleed- ing by leeches alone will remove a tumour in the breast, having all the appearances of a scirrhus, which cannot be considered as inflammatory ; its powers, therefore, extend beyond inflammation. We find relief by bleeding in the temporal artery or jugular vein, for complaints in the brain ; or cupping and bleeding with leeches on or near the part, as ap- plying leeches to the temples, in inflammations of the eye. I have observed that there is something similar to sympathetic affec- tion in bleeding. I conceive that all the sympathetic powers, the uni- versal, continued, and contiguous, may be brought into action from the local influence of bleeding. 1'hus, bleeding in the part inflamed, I can conceive, does more than simply empty the vessels mechanically, for that would be soon restored from the general circulation ; but it acts by con- tinued sympathy, viz. the vessels of the part being opened, they con- tract for their own defence, and this is carried further along the vessels of the part; so that bleeding from the part acts in two ways, viz. me- chanically, by relieving the vessels of some blood, so as to allow them to contract in proportion as the load is taken off; and also by exciting them to contraction, in order to prevent the effusion of blood. I sup- pose, likewise, that contiguous sympathy comes into action, for this would appear from practice and observation to be a principle in bleed- ing ; therefore, in inflammation of contiguous parts, it is proper to bleed from the skin opposite to them, as from the skin of the abdomen in complaints of the liver, stomach, and bowels; and likewise from the loins in inflammatory affections of the kidneys. In affections of the lungs bleeding opposite to them is of service ; but in such cases it is not clear where the inflammation is, for if in the pleura, then it does not act upon this principle, but by continued sympathy : bleeding on the scalp relieves head-aches ; and the relief given to the testicle by bleeding from the scrotum, in inflammation of that body, proves the principle. Where the first indication for bleeding takes place, viz. where there is violent inflammation, with strength of constitution, bleeding freely will be of singular service. The same mode of practice is also to be followed under the circumstance of strength, with respect to the second, third, fourth, and fifth ; but each will not require the same quantity to * It is not meant here to recommend bleeding in this disease.