FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 301 As the adhesive inflammation precedes the suppurative in every part of the body except the outlets, as was observed, and the suppurative commonly precedes the ulcerative, excepting on an external surface, the propriety of following likewise this order of nature in treating of them will appear evident, especially as each succeeding inflammation is in some measure illustrated by that which has gone before. ยง. 7- Of the different degrees and different kinds of Inflammation. Inflammation will in general be in proportion to the exciting cause (in which may be included the mischief done), the constitution, and the nature of the part; in all which, as there is great variety, so must there be in the inflammations. The degrees of inflammation will be more in the adhesive than in the suppurative, for the adhesive may have all the degrees of violence between the most slight inflammation and suppura- tion ; but the suppurative is a more fixed or determined quantity,' for when got to a certain point it takes a new action, and inflammation ceases. However, we have not always inflammation producing sup- puration when it has arrived to a certain degree of violence, for in some it often goes beyond that point which would produce it in others, and in such cases there is no disposition for suppuration, and it seems to become stationary, for neither has it any disposition for resolution. Spontaneous inflammations which are to suppurate are more violent than those inflammations arising in consequence of an operation or ac- cident, which also must produce suppuration; and those inflammations from either operations or accidents, if they have not produced death in the part operated upon, are more violent and of greater extent than those where death in the part has been produced. The inflammation of a boil or abscess is more violent, and commonly more extensive than that in consequence of a cut, or even an amputa- tion of a leg. The inflammation in consequence of a cut or amputa- tion of a leg will be more violent than that from a gun-shot wound, or from the application of a caustic, which produces death in the part, and even although more parts have been destroyed by these means ; neither do specific diseases, except the gout, produce so violent inflammation. rally thought to attach to the approach of abscesses or foreign bodies to the surface of tue body Distension as pressure must produce very nearly the same mechanical state of parts.]