UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 239 In treating systematically of such complaints as are the objects of -surgery, we should always begin with the most simple, and advance .gradually to the more complicated, by which means we shall be more (clearly understood. There are many complaints requiring the attention of the surgeon ■which cannot be called disease; because, having been produced by -something foreign to the body, as in accidents, they are to be con- - sidered as a violence committed upon it, altering in some degree the • structure of parts, and consequently interrupting the natural operations t already described. The parts so hurt not being able to pursue their < original or natural mode of action, are obliged to deviate from it; and l this deviation will vary according, [1.] to the nature of the violence, [2.] t the nature of the part, and [3.] the state of the constitution at the time. An alteration in structure requires a new mode of action for its re- storation : as the act of restoration cannot be the same with what was ; natural to the parts before any alteration had taken place. The altera- tion of structure by violence requires only the most simple change in the natural action of the part to restore it, and of course the most simple method of treatment by art, if it be such as to require any assist- ance at all; for there are many accidents where none is necessary. It will be proper to observe here that there is a circumstance attending accidental injury which does not belong to disease, viz. that the injury done has in all cases a tendency to produce both the disposition and the means of cure. The operations of restoration arise naturally out of the accident it- self ; for, when there is only a mechanical alteration in the structure, the stimulus of imperfection taking place immediately calls forth the action of restoration. But this is contrary to what happens in disease ; for disease is a disposition producing a wrong action, and it must continue this wrong action till the disposition is stopped or wears itself out. When this salutary effect, however, has once taken place, the state of the body becomes similar to that in a simple accident, viz. a conscious- ness of imperfection is excited which produces the action of restoration. In injuries arising from accident we have hitherto supposed that the parts have no tendency to any diseased action independently of the accident, for if they have, it is probable that such a tendency may be stronger than the disposition for restoration, and in that case they will fall into the peculiar diseased action, as was explained when treating of susceptibility. Let us take the scrofula and the cancer as examples, and we shall find, that if a part be hurt which has a strong tendency to scrofula, it will most probably run into the scrofulous mode of action in preference to that of restoration, and therefore we have many joints.