UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 253 uf this mode of treatment, the living extravasated blood is confined in the wound, and coagulating there unites the two surfaces together. The mouths of the vessels are soon shut, either by inosculation or their own power of contraction, and by the blood becoming vascular, as in the former stated case of union by the first intention ; and if there should be any superfluous extravasated blood, we know that it will be afterwards absorbed. The blood being alive, this uniting medium be- comes immediately a part of ourselves, and the parts not being offended by it no irritation is produced. The red particles are absorbed, and no- thing but the coagulating lymph is retained, which being the true liv- ing bond of union, afterwards becomes vascular, nervous, &c. This mode of treatment by art, though an imitation of the former, can seldom be supposed equally complete; perhaps we ought not to expect it to be so in any case, as there are circumstances often attending the artificial mode of treating wounds which do not occur in the natural, riie ligature used for tying a blood-vessel leaves an extraneous body in the wound*; a part deprived of life by the instrument, &c. will become an extraneous substance, and the surfaces cannot always be brought into contact, so as to allow a perfect union to take place. In such cases, union is prevented by the blood losing in part its living principle, espe- cially in those parts next to the external surface; and perhaps the art employed by the surgeon himself may assist in changing the original state of the wound, as the passing of needles and ligatures must always produce suppuration through the whole passage. These substances, so circumstanced, most probably become the cause of irritation, and con- sequently of inflammation. But if the position of the parts be such as in any sort to allow of union, although not readily, the inflammation will go no further than the first stage, and will even give assistance to the first mode of union. The possibility of effecting a cure by this method is probably limited to some certain distance of time after the wound has been received, though that space may admit of some latitude ; perhaps the sooner it is done the better; but while the blood continues to be extravasated it certainly may be attempted upon our first principles of union. Where the former bond of union is lost in a part, to produce a new one a secondary operation takes place, namely, inflammation; and if tins is likewise lost, then a third mofle of union will arise, which is by means of granulation. * If such a wound has a depending angle, and the vessels should even be tied nearer the upper angle than the lower, yet I would advise to bring the loose end of t >e thread out of the wound at the lower, for by that means the matter will flow much more easily. mucft