OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 172 little time after the exposure, for then they become vessels conveying red blood, as in a beginning inflammation, growing turgid, when the arteries may be easily discerned from the veins by the difference of colour of the blood in each: these observations will also generally apply to the corresponding veins. Perhaps arteries afford the most striking instance of animal substance furnished with two powers existing in the same part, one to resist me- chanical impulse, the other to produce action. The first of these powers is greatest where there is the most impulse to resist; therefore w'e find it particularly in the arteries nearest to the heart, the better to support the force of that organ ; but in those parts where gravitation is gradu- ally increasing, the diminution of powrer in the artery is not in propor- tion to the diminution of the force of the heart. In the veins the allotment of strength is commonly the reverse, for as they have nothing mechanical to resist, but the effect of gravitation, their principal strength is at the extremities. We are to suppose that the power of the heart, and the mechanical strength of the arteries, bear a just proportion to each other; and there- fore by ascertaining the last we may give a tolerable good guess with respect to the other. In this view, to determine the strength of the ventricles, so far as I was able, I made comparative trials of the strength of the aorta and pulmonary arteries of a healthy young man. I separated a circular section of each, and on being slit, they mea- sured 3£ inches, their breadths being also equal. On trial, I found the aorta, being stretched to near 5 inches, broke with a weight of eight pounds. The pulmonary artery stretched to near 5q inches, and then broke with four pounds twelve ounces. This experiment I have repeated, but with very different results; for in one experiment, although the aorta took one pound ten ounces to stretch it, while the pulmonary ar- tery took only six ounces, yet to break this pulmonary artery required eleven pounds three ounces, while the aorta broke with ten pounds four ounces; but this difference I impute to the aorta having lost its elasti- city, which is very apt to happen in that vessel. There is nearly the same proportion of elasticity in both arteries; but the strength of the aorta in the first experiment appeared to be nearly double that of the pulmonary artery, while in the second it was less; yet we must suppose the result of the first experiment nearer the truth, for we seldom find the pulmonary artery diseased, while the aorta is seldom otherwise. The mechanical strength of arteries is much greater in the trunk than in the branches, which is evident from accidents and from injections in dead bodies ; for when we inject arteries with too much force, the first