OF SKINNING. 501 like crystallization, it requires a surface to shoot from, and the edge of the skin all round would appear to be this surface. Whatever change the granulations undergo to form skin, they may in general be said to be guided to it by the surrounding skin, which gives this disposition to the surface of the adjoining granulations, as adjacent bones give an ossifying disposition to the granulations that are formed upon them. This may arise from sympathy; and if it does I should call it continued sympathy. But when the old skin is unsound, and not able to communicate this disposition, then the granulations sometimes of themselves acquire it, and new skin begins to form where that dis- position is strongest in them, so that the granulations may be ready to form new skin, if the surrounding skin be not in a condition to give the disposition. It would appear, however, that the circumference of the sore generally has the strongest disposition to skin, even although the surrounding skin does not assist, for in many old sores no new skin shall shoot from the surrounding skin, or be continued, as it were, from the old, and yet a circle of new skin shall form, making a circle within the old, and, as it were, detached from it. Skinning is a process in which Nature is always a great ceconomist, without a single exception; this, however, may probably arise from the granulations being always of the nature of the parts on which they are formed, and from seldom being formed on parts that are the least of the nature of the skin ; they have therefore no strong disposition to form skin. What would seem to make this observation more probable is, that if the cutis is only in part destroyed, as by a hurt or caustic which has not gone quite through the cutis to the cellular membrane under- neath, a new cutis will form immediately on the granulations, and in many cases it will form as fast as the slough will separate; the reason is, because the cutis has a stronger tendency to form cutis than any other part, and in many cases it may be said to form it from almost every point. We never find that the new-formed skin is so large as the sore was on which it is formed: this, I have already observed, is brought about by the contraction of the granulations, which in some measure is in pro- portion to the quantity of surrounding old skin, attended with the least resistance. If the sore is in a part where the surrounding skin is loose, as in the scrotum, then the contractile power of the granulations being not at all prevented, but allowed full scope, a very little new skin is formed, whereas it the sore is on any other part where the skin is not loose, such as the scalp, shin-bone, &c., in that case the new skin is nearly as large as the sore. This we find to be the case also in parts which are so swelled as to render the skin tight, such as the scrotum,