OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 157 stopt at once, when stretched to a certain point*, which check is occa- : sioned probably by the muscular, together with the internal inelastic ; coat8. To prove the muscularity of an artery, it is only necessary to compare i its action with that of elastic substances. Action in an elastic body can i only be produced by a mechanical power; but muscles acting upon an- i other principle can act quickly or slowly, much or little, according to the stimulus applied ; though all muscles do not act alike in this respect. If an artery is cut through, or laid bare, it will be found that it con- tracts by degrees till the whole cavity is closed; but if it be allowed to remain in this contracted state till after the death of the animal, and be then dilated beyond the state of rest of elastic substances, it will only contract to the degree of that state ; this it will do immediately, but the contraction will not be equal to that of which it was capable while alive. The posterior tibial artery of a dog being laid bare, and its size attended to, it was observed to be so much contracted in a short time as almost to prevent the blood from passing through it, and when divided the blood only oozed out from the orifice. On laying bare the carotid and crural arteries, and observing what took place in them while the animal was allowed to bleed to death, these arteries very evidently became smaller and smaller. When the various uses of arteries are considered, such as their forming different parts of the body out of the blood, their performing the differ- ent secretions, their allowing at one time the blood to pass readily into the smaller branches, as in blushing, and at another preventing it alto- gether, as in paleness from fear: and if to these we add the power of producing a diseased increase of any or every part of the body, we can- not but conclude that they are possessed of muscular powers. The influence of the heart in the body, like that of the sun in the planetary system, we know extends to every part; all the parts of the vascular system being supplied according to the necessity it has; though every part is not equally endowed with power, or disposition to make use of that power. The arteries, upon the whole, may be said to possess considerable living powers, and to retain them for a long time. This is evident when we observe what must happen in transplanting a living part of • This gives a determined size to an artery. * [Thus Poiseuille, by direct experiment, proved that the force of reaction excited by the distension of a recent artery was greater than the force used to distend it, and greater also than an artery could exert some time after death, before decomposition had commenced. This is only to be accounted for by its muscularity. (Journ. de Phys., pnr M. Majendie, viii. 272.)]