OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 145 CHAPTER II. OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. §. 1. General Observations on Muscular Contraction and Elasticity. .T is not my present intention to explain all the circumstances coll- ected with muscular contraction and relaxation, nor that other power f action introduced into an animal body, called elasticity”. I propose nly to state a few of the facts which throw some light upon the vascu- ir system, by showing that there is in vessels a power of muscular ction, and that the cooperation of elasticity is also necessary to their mction. These may likewise assist in explaining the manner in which le two powers are combined. I may, however, occasionally be led to mention causes and effects which cannot be immediately considered as pplicable to the vessels themselves, though they will render many of ie phenomena in the vascular system more easy to be understood. The common action of a muscle, from which its immediate use is de- lved, is its contraction; and the effect produced by it is that of bring- ag the origin and insertion, or the parts which it is fitted to move, earer to each other * ; which is universally the case -whether the muscle i straight, hollow, or circular. It is likewise necessary that a muscle hould relax, or be capable of relaxation ; a condition which allows it o be stretched, by permitting the parts acted upon to recede from each ther. Muscles, in common, probably, with every other part of the ody, have a power of adapting themselves to the necessary distance etween origin and insertion, in case an alteration has taken place in he natural distance ; and I have reason to believe that, under certain ircumstances, they have a power of becoming longer, almost imme- iately, than they are in the natural relaxed, or even the natural don- ated state of their fibres. This opinion will be best illustrated in in- lammation. * I do not here consider the circumflex tendons; for, by the origin and insertion, I oean the muscular ends of the fibres. * [See Croonian Lectures on Muscular Motion, &c. in Voi. IV. of this edition.] VOL. IIIV L