49 6 GRANULATIONS. "e find also, by allowing the slough to dry or scab, that when this is completed the scab will drop oft and the parts shall be skinned; but if the blood has not been allowed to coagulate and dry, or the slough has been kept moist, the sore will suppurate and granulate. We even see in small sores", which are perfectly healthy and suppurating, that if the matter be allowed to dry upon them, the suppuration will stop, and the skin form under the scab : the smallpox is a striking proof of this, which was fully treated of in a former part of the work. A blister whose cuticle is not removed is similar to a scab, it does not allow of suppuration. If a separation takes place between the cutis and cuticle, and the cuticle be not removed, nothing will be collected through the whole course, and a new cuticle will be formed; but if the cuticle be removed, a greater degree of inflammation will come on, and suppu- ration will certainly take place. ยง.4. Of the Contraction of Granulations. Immediately upon the formation of the granulations, cicatrization would appear to be in view. The parts which had receded, in conse- quence of a breach being made in them, by their natural elasticity and probably by muscular contraction, now begin to be brought together by this new substance; and it being endowed with such properties, they soon begin to contract, which is a sign that cicatrization is to follow. The contraction takes place in every point, but principally from edge to edge, which brings the circumference of the sore towards the centre ; so that the sore becomes smaller and smaller, although there is little or no new skin formed. The contracting tendency is in some degree proportioned to the ge- neral healing disposition of the sore, and the looseness of the parts on which it is formed; for when it has not a tendency to skin, the gra- nulations do not so readily contract, and therefore contracting and skin- ning are probably effects of one cause. The granulations too, being formed upon a pretty fixed surface, which is a consequence of [the in- duration arising from] inflammation, are in some degree retarded in their contraction from this cause; but probably this does not act so much upon a mechanical principle as we at first might imagine, for such a state of parts in some degree lessens the disposition for this process; but this state is every day altering in proportion ns the tumefaction sub- sides. Granulations are also retarded in their contraction from a mc- [Scc p. 26;!, nvtr.]