444 OF'l’US. not afford matter enough to form the pus winch is discharged in a com- mon gonorrhoea. I should also beg leave to be informed how that fer- mentation of the fluids ever ceased; for there is the same surface secret- ing its mucus whenever the formation of pus ceases. Besides, if dis- solved solids enter necessarily into the composition of pus by the power of some ferment, it may be asked, by what power is the first particle of this fluid in an abscess or sore formed, before there is any particle ex- isting which is capable of dissolving the solids ? An abscess shall form, and, suppuration ceasing, it shall become stationary, perhaps for months, and at last be absorbed, and the whole shall heal; what becomes of the ferment the whole time it is stationary ? It has been supposed that blood when extravasated becomes of itself pus; but we find blood, when extravasated either from violence or a rupture of a vessel, as in an aneurism, never of itself becomes pus, nor was pus ever formed in such cavities till inflammation had taken place in them, and then in such cavities there was to be found both the blood and the matter: if the blood had coagulated (as it seldom does in those cases of violence) it would be found still coagulated, and if it had not coagulated the pus would be bloody. True pus has certain properties, which when taken singly may belong to other secretions, but when all joined, form the peculiar character of pus, viz. globules swimming in a fluid, which is coagulable by a solution of sal ammoniac (which no other animal secretion that I know is); and at the same time a consequence of inflammation : these circumstances taken together may be said to constitute pus. As inflammation does not produce at first true pus, I made the follow- ing experiments to ascertain its progress or formation. To do this it was only necessary to keep up an irritation on some living part a suf- ficient time to oblige it to set about the natural consequent actions, and the smooth coat of an internal cavity appeared to me to be well calcu- lated for such an experiment, where nothing could interfere with the actions of the parts or their result; and it would also show its progress on internal surfaces, which shows its progress in wounds and abscesses. §. 2. Experiments to ascertain the Progress of Suppuration. Experiment I. The tunica vaginalis of a young ram was opened and the testicle exposed. The surface of the testicle was wiped clean, and a piece of talc was laid upon it. The surface almost immediately be- came more vascular; five minutes after, the talc was removed and ex- amined in a microscope, but no globules could be observed, onlj a moisture, which appeared to be serum, len minutes after, there vere