FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 303 part. A wound is a quick irritation of a living part, so that it inflames more readily and more violently according to the quantity of irritation; but that cannot be of long standing, as nature sets about procuring re- lief. But when irritating substances are applied, the part inflames quickly, according to their power of irritation ; and if they are continued, nature is not allowed to relieve herself, but is constantly teazed, by which means the inflammation becomes also violent. I need hardly mention that fever is often the cause of local inflam- mation : we see this happen every day. These causes, and of course the inflammation, are of two kinds : one which may be called accidental, as inflammation arising in consequence of common fever; the others are more determined, depending upon the species of fever, which may be called specific, as the smallpox, chickenpox, &c. These inflammations, in consequence of fever, are commonly supposed to be critical; but I very much doubt the truth of this opinion. The smallpox and chicken- pox are, perhaps, the strongest instances of an appearance in proof of this opinion, and perhaps the measles as a critical inflammation might be produced as another; but I believe that it is peculiar to these dis- eases to form inflammation and sores. We must allow, however, it is not absolutely necessary, even in them, that abscesses should be formed, viz. the pock, to lessen or carry off the fever; for the specific fever in them cannot exist beyond a certain time, even although no eruption appears. But I think that in the cases of the smallpox, chickenpox, and the measles, those diseases often prove the contrary to that which is sup- posed to be the case; for we have large abscesses as often formed after those diseases as after any other, which are commonly supposed to be the settling of the fever in this part, but which are equally accidental with those from common fever, and therefore we cannot suppose that those abscesses are critical in such diseases, because they are either common abscesses or scrofulous; for no one disease can have two di- stinct and different critical inflammations. In further confirmation of my opinion, those inflammations are found to be not in the least of the nature of the disease which produces them, so little so in most cases as to be truly specific of another kind, viz. the scrofulous. Now we certainly find it difficult to conceive one universal specific disease, as the smallpox, &c., producing a local one of another specific disposition to cure the first, or terminating in another disease, whose mode of action is totally different; and the more so when we see that the same local diseases can and do arise from every kind of fever. To ascertain this fact, therefore, we are to look out for that disposition, or that mode of action, common to all fevers which are capable of producing this effect.