0 3 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OP THE BLOOD. the patient, as well as examined the nature of tliis change and whether there was any variety in it. So far as I have been able to observe, it can hardly be said to have any leading cause: having found it, how- ever, more frequently in the blood of breeding women, I conceived it might have some connexion with that state ; but I have seen it in others, and sometimes in men. Yet it is possible that the state of pregnancy may adapt the constitution for forming such appearances, as well as for producing other symptoms in the blood like those of inflammation; for we often find the same effect or disease arising from various causes which have no immediate connexion with each other. There have been many opinions formed about the nature and cause of this appearance of the serum. It has been supposed to be occasioned by chyle not yet assimilated ; but it does not occur frequently enough to be attributed to this fluid. Mr. Hewson supposed it to be absorbed fat or oil; which certainly is not the case, for it is not the same in all cases*. * [Opaline or milky serum would appear to depend on certain principles (stearine and oleine) naturally present in the blood (see Analysis, p. 18), but which under cer- tain circumstances superabound in the system. In a very well marked case of this kind, Dr. Babington estimated the proportion of oleaginous matters at three per cent, of the whole serum. (Med.-Chir. Trans., xvi. p. 46.) Dr. Traill, in two other cases, estimated it at 2-44 and 4’50 per cent. (Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., xvii. 235. 637. April 1823.), and Dr. Christison at five per cent {lb., October 1829.) The proportion in healthy serum does not exceed ’257, or about one quarter per cent. Milky serum varies in specific gravity from 1019 to 1024, that of healthy serum being 1029-5. This loss of specific gravity in milky serum is apparently dependent on a cor- responding deficiency of albumen, and affords an example of the easy convertibility of one animal principle into another under peculiar conditions of the system, somewhat analogous to the conversion of dried fibrin, and perhaps also of albumen, into adipocere, by digestion with ether and alcohol (see note, p. 46.). Dr. Babington did not observe that the degree of milkiness bore any proportion to the quantity of oily matters present. By agitating serum and ether together, and decanting and evaporating the latter, the oily matter may easily be obtained. Collected on bibulous paper or amianthus, it may be burned like any other oil. When the quantity of oily matter is very considerable the blood is observed to have a chocolate or milky colour even while flowing from the vessel; which is a clear proof that the oil primarily exists in the blood, or in other words that it is an educt and not a product of the processes for obtaining it. (LeCanu in Journ.de Chim. Med., June 1835.) The circumstances under which milky serum has been observed to exist are so unlike as to render it impossible to assign any probable state of the constitution as leading to its production. (Journal de Pharmacie, No. X.) Marcet, Berzelius, and Thackrah havo partaken of the opinion that this appearance is derived from a mixture of unassimilated chyle with the blood ; a conjecture which derives some support from the fact that chyle taken from an animal which has recently fed on fat animal diet presents precisely simi lar appearances. Mr. Thackrah has affirmed “that when the lacteals are fully dis- tended (in dogs), this cream-like appearance is almost always presented in the blood Indeed, we may generally produce it at will by taking blood a certain time after a full