T11E ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 347 we often find it very rapid. They shall be attacked with a violent pain in the part, so much so as hardly to be able to bear it, which shall be immediately succeeded with a violent inflammation. A lady was walking in her garden, and at once was attacked with a violent pain in the middle of the fore part of the thigh, which made her immediately lame. Soon after, the skin appeared discoloured, which spread nearly over one half of the thigh : this part became thick and swelled, which appeared to go as deep as the bone. It afterwards sup- purated ; all in a few days. This appeared to be a well-marked case. •The commencement of inflammation after accidents is more easily ascertained, for we must date it from the accident, and we find it is not immediate ; for after a wound has been received, inflammation does not begin for twelve, eighteen, or twenty-four hours. It sometimes happens, however, that the adhesive state cannot set bounds to itself, and therefore cannot set bounds to the suppurative. I his may be owing to two causes : the one is the violence of the inflam- mation, and quickness of the attack of the suppurative spreading before parts have had a sufficient union, and even perhaps joined with a spe- ■ cies °f suppuration from the very first, so that union is prevented. Se- ■ condly, the inflammation may, I suspect, be of the erysipelatous kind, especially when there is a tendency, from the beginning, to mortifica- tion. This mixing of the suppurative with the adhesive, or the hurry- ing on of the suppurative, or this mixture of the erysipelatous with the | others, I have frequently seen in the abdomen of women who have been attacked with the peritonaea! inflammation after childbirth, and which from these circumstances became the cause of their death. In such cruses we find matter mixed with coagulating lymph, as if formed with it; for without having been formed with it, it could not have mixed with it after coagulation. We find also coagulating lymph mixed with the matter, as it were, separated from the inflamed surface by the for- mation of the matter; and in those cases where there is a tendency to mortification from the beginning, as in strangulated ruptures, we often find the adhesive and suppurative inflammation going hand in hand. All of these causes and effects account for the violence of the symptoms, the quickness of the progress of the disease, and its fatal consequences, be- yond such inflammations as have only the true adhesive progress, or where it takes place perfectly prior to suppuration. It seems to appear, from observation, that some surfaces of the body do not so readily unite by the coagulating lymph as others, and there- fore on such surfaces there is commonly a much larger quantity of this matter thrown out than probably would have been if union had readily taken place; for we may suppose that where once union has taken place