OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 432 the fits. This is an attribute belonging to life, and shows that life can- not go on the same continually in any state, but must have its hours of rest and hours of action. In this, as in almost every other symptom of disease, the effect has been considered as a cause; for exacerbations have always been con- sidered as owing to the disease having its time of subsiding or lessen- ing and its time of increase. This idea might pass as just in fevers, where causes are not known; but where the causes continue the same, as ir. local diseases, we a priori should not expect it; yet we find in such cases periods of increase and decrease of the symptoms in the constitution, and therefore we must search after some principle belonging to animal life as a cause of this. We shall find that an animal is so constituted as to be incapable of existing for any continuance of time in any one state whatever. The actions of the sensitive principle, when in perfect health, have their re- gular exacerbations, viz. watching and sleep: it is disease that inter- rupts this regularity of the actions of health, therefore wre find that the actions of disease cannot always go on in the same w7ay; Nature rests insensible of the disease [as in ague], while the disease exists at all times alike. Since this is the case where we see evidently a continuance of the remote cause, and that the constitution is only capable of being af- fected by tbis cause at stated times, according to the species of irritation given and the constitution at the time, may we not reasonably suppose this to be the case where the cause is invisible, as in fevers ? Whether these exacerbations are an effect of an occasional increase of the inflammation, or whetlier the inflammation is increased by the pa- roxysm of the fever, is not easy to determine; but they attend each other. An ague is a disease which exists in the constitution between the fits as mucli as at the time of the fit; but the constitution becomes insen- sible of it, and the action can only last a stated time. The process of ulceration seldom appears to affect the whole system ; it is hardly known to exist, but in the appearance of the parts, viz. when the part which contains the matter gets softer to the touch, or when an ulcer becomes larger. But that rigors take place upon the commence- ment of ulceration I think is evident, although it cannot well be known in all cases; for ulceration will be so close upon suppuration in most cases that it will be difficult to distinguish which wras the cause of the rigor; but where suppuration has taken place, and the abscess is opened, so that the first act of suppuration is finished, yet if it is not opened, so as to allow of a ready outlet to the matter, for instance, if it is not opened at a depending part, the pressure of the matter against the most de-