GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 90 parts, and even in the arteries; this circumstance takes place in the vessels as the motion of the blood decreases». Another observation occurs, viz., that the whole of the limb below the ligature, where the crural artery had been taken up, must have been entirely supplied with such altered blood; and as it kept its life, its warmth, and the action of its muscles, it is evident that the colour of the blood is of little service to any of those properties. It is probably j from this cause that granulations on the lower part of the lower extre- mity look dark when the person stands erect, as well as in very indolent sores, however situated. Another observation strongly in favour of the supposition that rest is a cause of the change of blood from the scarlet colour to the dark, or modena, is taken from the common operation of bleeding; for we gene- rally find the blood of a dark colour at its first coming out, but it be- comes lighter and lighter towards the last. Some reasons may be given for this: first, it has stagnated in the veins while the vein was filling, and the orifice making, which occupy some time, and may render it darker than it otherwise might have been in the same vein : secondly, * [Arterial blood is also blackened in vacuo, and when placed in media which exert no apparent chemical action upon it, such as hydrogen and nitrogen (Priestley on Air, iii. 363-4.); nay, arterial blood gradually blackens when confined in pure oxygen, and cannot be again brightened by this agent (Thompson, Sys. of Chem., iv. 474.), although, bv the addition of any neutral salt having an alkaline or earthy base, the colour is in- stantly restored. These facts are clearly against the notion, to be adverted to presently, of free carbon being the cause of the black colour of the blood, because as much of this substance must exist in the blood at the commencement of the experiment as at the termination. Neither is it easy to reconcile these phenomena with Dr. Stevens’s theory of arterialization ; for if carbonic acid is the cause of the dark colour, how is it that arterial blood (which, according to this author, contains no carbonic acid,) is ren- dered black, and venous blood still blacker, by being placed in vacuo; since the salts remain the same, while the effect of a vacuum whould evidently be rather to extract a part of the carbonic acid than to increase its amount? It is possible that these phe- nomena may depend on some alteration in the constitution of the clot, arising from a mutual play of affinities between its proximate elements, thus the blood is also observed to become venalized in the living body from the mere fact of stagnation. Sir Astley Cooper found that those changes which constitute the venalization of the blood in the body were not effected under extreme cold, so that the blood remained florid through- out the whole system of those animals which perished from cold (Dr. Hodgkin’s Notes to Edwards); whereas, under the influence of moderate warmth, such as that of the bodv, these changes take place, slowly on cxtravasated or stagnating blood, but instantly in the extreme capillaries. It will be sufficient to have noticed in this place the analogy which subsists between the venalization of the blood under these different circumstances, without pretending to decide whether these phenomena depend on the gradual union of carbon and oxygen with each other, or on any other cause. The subject will be resumed in a fu-