OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 429 the simple commencement of the suppurative disposition, before it has taken place, rigors, etc. come on. 'Hie constitutional effects arising upon the commencement of inflam- mation, independent of situation, of vital parts, nerves, &c., are greater or less according to the nature of the disease. When the adhesive stage commences it has but very little effect upon the whole system; there is sometimes, however, a rigor, although not always ; this is more in com- mon spontaneous inflammations than in those arising from an injury done to a part, but such are seldom or ever alarming. When the suppura- tive disposition takes place, new effects upon the constitution arise, which are very considerable and varying in themselves. The cold fits or rigors are more frequently felt at the commencement of the suppurative than at the beginning of the adhesive inflammation, more especially too if it is what we commonly call spontaneous inflammations, which advance to suppuration; for in those inflammations occasioned by an accident or an operation, which must suppurate, they [the inflammations] appear to set out at the very first with a kind of suppurative disposition. Those arising in consequence of spontaneous inflammation, or from an injury, are not lasting, are often succeeded by hot fits, and if they terminate in perspiration then the patient is relieved; and are more or less so according to the greatness of the present inflammation, and the suppuration that is likely to follow, joined to the nature of the parts and their situation : if in vital parts they will be most violent, and, next to these, in parts far from the heart. This cold fit is indeed a constant symptom in most local diseases which affect the constitution, and in this case plainly shows that the constitution is so affected, or sympathizes with the part. It is thus also that fevers usually commence, and upon the absorption of any poisonous matter the same symptoms appear. I have seen them arise from a simple prick in the end of a finger, made with a clean sewing needle*, exactly similar to those arising from the absorption of poison. Disagreeable applications to the stomach produce them, and also dis- agreeable affections of the mind; but rigors are not confined to the com- mencement of disease, for they occur in its progress and sometimes at its termination, as will be mentioned. It is probable that the stomach is the cause of those rigors by its taking part in the diseased action of the constitution; for as the sto- mach is the seat of simple animal life, and thereby the organ of uni- versal sympathy of the materia vitm or the living principle, it is of course more or less affected upon all these occasions; so that an affec- tion of any part of the body and of the mind can produce very nearly * Hence it would seem as if simple irritation in a part was capable of affectum the whole nervous system. 6