208 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. This anastomosing is much more frequent in the smaller than the larger arteries. We seldom find trunks anastomose with one another. One reason for this is the great disproportion in number between the larger and smaller arteries ; but the anastomosis is much more frequent in the smaller, in proportion to their number. The use of this is to give freedom to the circulation, as the chance of a stop being put to it is greatest in the smaller arteries, the circulation in them not being so strong, and passing through parts liable to be pressed upon. This is readily seen in the transparent parts of the living body, when viewed through a microscope. In some parts of the body we find anastomoses in pretty large trunks; but these are in parts essential to life, very liable to be com- pressed, or both. The mesenteric artery anastomoses by large trunks; the mesentery being a part essential to life, and very liable to compres- sion, from indurated faeces compressing the artery. In this case, if they only anastomosed by the small branches, on the intestines, the circulation might not be kept up sufficiently to preserve the gut. We observe the same thing in the brain ; for there the arteries anastomose by large trunks, before they are distributed to the brain. The use of this is that all parts of the brain might have an equal quantity of blood at all times, even where accident had put a stop to the circulation in any one vessel; for the small anastomoses on the pia mater would not be sufficient to keep up a due circulation everywhere in the brain; as I believe the arteries do not anastomose in the substance of the brain it- self. There are large anastomoses in the hand and foot, for the same reason as in the intestines. All the uses arising from the anastomosing of the vessels, are, per- haps, not yet perfectly understood: general reasons can, I think, be assigned for them; but these will not apply to all cases : there is some- thing, therefore, more than we are yet acquainted with. The absorb- ents and the veins, upon the whole, anastomose more frequently than the arteries ; yet that circumstance is reversed respecting the veins in which arise from the arch, are subject to more variations from the normal type than perhaps any other artery in the body. It has generally been thought that the venous system presents greater and more numerous anomalies in its distribution than the arterial; and this observation is un- doubtedly true as far as regards the superficial and smaller vessels, but not as regards the deep-seated and more considerable trunks. The aorta, for instance, is subject to at least twenty-nine varieties, in regard to the vessels which arise from its arch, whereas only one has been observed with respect to the vena cava superior, viz. when (he right and left subclavians do not join previously to their reaching the heart. So likewise the renal and brachial arteries are much more irregular than the corresponding veins.]