397 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. to moderate or resolve external inflammations, they do not apply sub- stances with any such properties11. How absurd would it appear to sur- geons in general, if any one made use of the same applications to an in- flammation in any other part; yet I do not know if there is any difference between an inflammation of the eye or throat, and one in any other part, if the inflammations are of the same kind : mercury cures a venereal in- flammation, either of the eye or throat, as easily as a venereal inflamma- tion any -where else, because it is an inflammation of the same kind. These applications, like fomentations, are of short duration, for there is no possibility of applying these powers constantly, except in the form of a poultice, whose operation is somewhat similar; and, indeed, they are only substitutes for a poultice, where that mode of application can- not be made use of, as I observed with respect to internal surfaces. Poultices are constant applications, and, like fomentations, may be of two kinds, either simply warm and wet, or medicated. The greatest effect that a poultice can produce must be immediate, but its power will extend beyond the surface of contact, although only in a secondary degree. To the common inflammation the simplest poultices are supposed to be the best, and produce their effect, I believe, only by keeping the parts easier under the complaint; but I am of opinion that such do not affect the inflammation any other way. A common poultice is, perhaps, one of the best applications when we mean to do nothing but to allow nature to perform the cure with as much ease to herself as possible. Poultices may be medicated, so as to be adapted to the kind of inflammation, as with the solution of lead, opium, mercury, etc.; in short, they may be compounded with any kind of medicine. Whatever the disposition is which produces inflammation, and what- ever the actions are which produce the effects, that disposition, under certain circumstances, viz. when it arises either from the constitution or the parts, can be removed, and of course the actions excited by it. The disposition for inflammation shall have taken place, and the vessels which are the active parts shall have dilated, and allowed more blood to enter them, so that the part shall look red; but no hardness or ful- ness shall be observed, and the whole shall subside before adhesions [The reason of this is sufficiently obvious, for if the external integuments of the body are deprived of their defence of cuticle, and assimilated therefore in conditions to the mucous membranes, the same effects arc produced in them ; which effects it may he observed are more or less of a permanent nature. The consequences which ensue from the application of various metallic or saline solutions to the web of a frog’s foot, leave no doubt ns to the fact of the imbibition of foreign substances by the lining cuticle, and of their influence upon the subjacent vessels.]