ois FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. brane it there produces mortification ; the colour of the skin is at first more vivid than afterwards, for it becomes of a purple colour'1. [4.] Inflammation often produces mortification or death in the part inflamed. This commonly takes place in old people that are become very much debilitated, and chiefly in the lower extremities. I suspect it to be somewhat similar to the carbuncle, viz. principally in those who have lived well, although not so much confined to them as the car- buncle ; however, it takes place in the young, where great debility has been produced from disease, especially those diseases that have debility as a principle, such as what are commonly called putrid fevers ; but the situation of these is not so determined, and in such inflammation hardly takes place without an immediate exciting cause, as the application of blisters, &c. Death in a part sometimes takes place almost immedi- ately without inflammation; but this is not to the present purpose. Where mortification succeeds inflammation in the extremities, especially in elderly persons, there is often an early separation of the cuticle which forms a blister, filled with a bloody serum ; and we shall observe dark brownish spots, which consist of extravasated blood in the true cutis, and which shall at last blister, and then the cutis forms a slough. Such inflammations have little of the adhesive tumefaction in them, but more of the cedematous; are not clear or transparent, but rather of a dusky red. As the colour of the inflamed parts shows something of its nature, it is to be observed that it is different in all these inflamma- tions from that of the true adhesive; and as we have reason to believe that the circulation is quicker in the adhesive inflammation than is na- tural, and that the colour arises from this cause, we may suppose that the motion of the blood in these is languid, and that it assumes the venal appearance even in the arteries. In most of these four inflammations there is an appearance that often arises, w'hich is a reddish streak commonly passing from the inflamed parts towards the source of the circulation, but not always in this di- rection, sometimes just the contrary; and this is more certain when it happens to take place in an extremity, because there we know the course of all the vessels better ; but it does not always arise from the part in- flamed. I have seen this last species of. inflammation attack the toes, * [Probably the scarlet colour may in some measure arise from the salts of the urine. Afterwards, as the urine putrefies, ammonia is evolved, which changes the natural colour of the blood to a deep black.] » [See Lemons Orales de Clinique Chirurgicale, par M. Dupuytren. According to this gentleman, the spontaneous, dry, or senile gangrene (which is here principally referred to) is generally the consequence of spontaneous arteritis and obliteration of the principal vessels. According to Cruveilhier, the same effect may be produced by arterial inflam- mation induced by direct experiment on living animals.]