UK ION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 059 into the wound, union by the first intention should not be attempted, but they should be allowed to suppurate, in order that the extraneous matter may be expelled. Wounds which are attended with laceration, although free from contusion, cannot always be united by the first in- tention, because it must frequently be impossible to bring the external parts or skin so much in contact as to prevent that inflammation which is naturally produced by exposure. But even in cases of simple lacera- tion, where the external influence is but slight, or can be prevented (as we observed m treating of the compound simple fracture), we find iat union by the first intention often takes place; the blood which fills up the interstices of the lacerated parts having prevented the stimulus o imperfection in them, and preventing suppuration, may afterwards be absorbed. Many operations may be so performed os to admit of parts uniting by the first intention, but the practice should be adopted with great cir- cumspection ; the mode of operating with that view should in all cases ie a secondary and not a primary consideration, which it has unluckily been too often among surgeons. In cases of cancer it is a most dan- gerous attempt at refinement in surgery". In the union of wounded parts by the first intention, it is seldom or never possible to bring them so close together at the exposed edges as to unite them perfectly by these means; such edges are therefore obliged 0 take another method of healing. If kept moist, they will inflame os deep between the cut surfaces as the blood fails in the union, and there suppurate and granulate; but if the blood is allowed to dry and form a scab between and along the cut edges, then inflammation Ld suppu- rat,„a „f hose e m „ ^ md this ^ ^ J? as \\ ill be described by and by. As those effects of accidental injury which can be cured by the first intention call up none of the powers of the constitution to assist in the reparation, it is not the least affected or disturbed by them j the parts t r; u:hrr‘' 7^-u - *- with t .rr. L / natUrC °f th° partS’ t,le ski" '""not be kept in contact II tt cu "u PartS’ ?"the rem°Val °f *hc ^cle, tumours from the axilla, grin, by which the forum"!™ 7 ° effeCted m0re raPidly by inducing suppuration at once, avoided The si " ““ accumu,ation of matter in inconvenient situation* will be celTent advir "e gC°n "" fi"d mB* °,,1Cr OCCasions *>' P^ting in practice the ex "f ",C niode of intention as only s 2