TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 377 be taken under equal strength of constitution, as will be taken notice of when treating of them separately. As it seldom happens that bleeding once will be sufficient in a considerable inflammation, the first, or pre- ceding blood taken becomes a symptom of the disease. If the coagu- lating lymph is long in coagulating, so that the globules have time to subside, there will be what is called a thick buff; and if its surface is considerably cupped, then future bleedings may be used with less cau- tion ; because such appearance indicates strong powers of coagulation, which always shows strength in the solids; but if the blood is weak in its powers of coagulation, and lies flat in the dish, then we must be cau- tious in our future bleedings ; or if it was strong at first in its powers of coagulation, and after repeated bleedings becomes weak, then we must not pursue this further; but in some cases it is proper to pursue it to this point, for we shall sometimes find that the inflammatory symptoms shall not cease after repeated bleedings, if the strength continues; but tbc moment a degree of looseness is produced in the blood, that moment will the inflammatory action cease. The following case is a strong in- stance of this: A lady had a violent cough, tightness in respiration, loss of appetite, strong sizy blood, and the symptoms continued to the sixth bleeding, when the blood was not quite so sizy; but the most remarkable change was its remaining flat on the surface. Upon this bleeding all the sym- ptoms disappeared; and here, although the blood became weak in its power of coagulation, yet it did not produce irritability in the consti- tution, the vessels of the inflamed parts having still had power to con- tract. On the other hand, there may be indications for bleeding spa- ringly; first, when there is too much action, with weakened powers; secondly, when there is a disposition to form but little blood; thirdly, when the part affected is far from the source of the circulation. From the above three dispositions that require bleeding sparingly, or with caution, I may observe that it will most ju-obably be proper in all such cases to bleed from, or as near the part affected as possible, in order to have the greatest effect, with the loss of the least quantity of blood ; more so than when the constitution is strong; because the constitution in such cases should feel the loss of blood as little as possible. If from the part, leeches will answer best, because commonly little irritation follows the wound of a leech * : however, this can only be put in prac- * However this is not always the case, for it sometimes happens that an unkindly inflammation attends the wound, though not extensive. It sometimes also happens that the lymphatic glands swell in consequence of their bite; but these so rarely occur, and arc of such little consequence when they do, that they are not to be regarded. From hence it has been conceived that there is something poisonous in the bite of a leech,