GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 76 exposed to the air, this part will also assume the scarlet red, and be- come even redder than that exposed before, because it contains a greater number of red globules, which undergo this change. The red colour will even penetrate to some depth, which shows that the effect can be produced through a thick substance. We often find the vessels of the lungs full of blood, and the whole substance of the lungs of a dark colour; but if we inflate the lungs the cells will become of a florid red, the small vessels on those cells, both arteries and veins, having the colour of their blood changed by the air in the cells affecting it through their coats. We find the same thing on the surface of flesh or muscles, liver, &c. We may observe in the gills of fish that they retain their florid colour as long as the fish is fresh, from being exposed to the air, for they naturally have the air applied externally in the act of breath- ing. It is from these facts we reason respecting the scarlet colour which the blood acquires in the lungs but loses in the body, and why therefore it is found of the modena colour in the veins, and of course in the right side of the heart and larger trunks of the pulmonary artery. As the blood is florid in the pulmonary veins as far as we can trace them, we reasonably suppose that it acquires this appearance in the small vessels of the lungs, and as the lungs constantly take in fresh air, we conceive that by exposure to the air (perhaps both in arteries and veins) it acquired the scarlet colour; for we shall see that the air, or the influence of the air, is capable of passing through animal substance. In the living body, when the breathing is imperfect, we can plainly see the change taking place in the colour of the blood in proportion as the breathing becomes more perfect, of which the following experi- ments are proofs. They were made with a view to observe the motion of the heart, by producing an artificial breathing, and exhibited a vast variety of satisfactory phenomena, of which the change in the colour of the blood in the lungs was one. I invented a pair of double bellows, each of which had two openings, but their actions were reversed: two of the openings were inclosed in one pipe or nozzle, and the other two wrere on the sides. The lower chamber had its valve placed exactly similar to that of the common bellows ; but it had also a valve at the nozzle, which did not allow any air to enter there. The upper half had a valve placed at the nozzle, which allowed the air to enter but not to escape, and the opening on the upper side allowed the air to escape but not to enter; so that, on dilating the bellows, the upper side or chamber drew in the air by the nozzle only, and at the same time the under chamber drew in its air by the side only. On closing the bellows, or expelling this air, the air drawn in by the nozzle passed out at the opening on the upper side,