UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 249 dered unfit to preserve the communication with the adhering surface, by which it is connected with the body at large, and thus the union be of course prevented. If there be no such impediment, then the union of the parts may be very quick ; but it will be in some degree ac- cording to the quantity of extravasatcd blood interposed, for if that be large, the whole blood will not become vascular, but the surface only which is in contact with surrounding parts, and the rest will be absorbed as in the ecchymosis. Where the quantity is small, as in a slight wound without laceration, and where all the divided surfaces can be brought into almost absolute contact, their union will be firm in twenty-four hours, as happens in a hare-lip or wounds of the scalp. Although under such circumstances the blood seems to change into a solid form very quickly, yet when the situation of the wound particu- larly subjects the parts to mechanical violence, we should not trust to this union being completed in so short a time. In the hare-lip, for in- stance, perhaps forty-eight hours may be required to make it perfectly secure, and except when the stitches, by producing ulceration, might make scars, there can be no harm in allowing such parts even a longer time for their union. But in wounds of the scalp this caution is not necessary, and indeed in such cases it is scarcely required to make stitches at all. In cases of accidental injury, whether they be in themselves slight or considerable, in whatever situation or part they may have happened, if the salutary processes, above described, go on readily, no other effect of injury, or irritation, or pain, in consequence of Nature’s operations, is felt. No universal sympathy or fever takes place, except what arises from the mere injury done, but all is quiet as if nothing had happened, iliis is sometimes the case even in a simple fracture of the bones of the leg, in fissures of the skull, etc. However, the magnitude of the acci- dent often produces effects which arc alarming, and more particularly when they happen to parts essential to life. These effects are often the cause of much danger, the constitution becoming affected according to the nature and importance of the parts injured. Thus concussion and extravasation affecting the brain, must likewise affect the constitution, from the natural action and influence of this organ on the body being diminished, increased, or otherwise disturbed. The same thing happens from an injury done to any other vital part of the body, and the effects will be according to the use of such parts, or the influence which they have on the system. However, these immediate and salutary operations do not always take place simply, for they are often altered by other circumstances, as the accident sometimes becomes the cause of irritation, and produces an-