TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 399 §. 14. Of the Use of the Adhesive Inflammation. This inflammation may be said in all cases to arise from a state of parts in which they cannot remain, and therefore an irritation of imper- fection takes place. It may be looked upon as the effect of wise coun- sels, the constitution being so formed as to take spontaneously all the precautions necessary for its defence; for in most cases we shall evi- dently see that it answers wise purposes. Its utility may be said to be both local and constitutional, but cer- tainly most so with regard to the first. Its utility is most evident when it arises from a disease in a part, whether this proceeds from the con- stitution or otherwise ; and when it does, it must be considered as ari- sing from a state in which that part cannot exist,—as in exposure,— and therefore is the first step towards a cure. It is often of service in those cases which arise from violence, although not necessarily so, the injured parts not being always under the necessity of having recourse to it, as was shown in treating of union by the first intention. When the adhesive inflammation arises from the constitution, it may depend on some disease of that constitution ; and if so, it may be con- ceived to be of use to it, especially if it should be supposed to be the termination of a universal irritation in a local one, by that means re- lieving the constitution of the former, as in the gout; but when it is only the simple adhesive inflammation that takes place, I am rather apt to think that it is more a part of the disease than a termination of it, or an act of the constitution. The adhesive inflammation serves as a check to the suppurative by making parts, which otherwise must infallibly fall into that state, pre- viously unite, in order to prevent its access, as was described when speak- ing of the adhesive inflammation being limited; and where it cannot produce this effect, so as altogether to hinder the suppurative inflam- mation itself from taking place, it becomes in most cases a check upon the extent of it. This we see evidently to be the case in large cavities, as in the tunica vaginalis after the operation for the hydrocele; for after the water has made its escape, parts of the collapsed sac frequently unite to other parts of the same sac by this inflammation, and thereby pre- clude the suppurative from extending beyond these adhesions, which so far prevents the intention of the surgeon from having its full effect; and often, on the other hand, the adhesive state of the inflammation takes place universally in this bag, in consequence of the palliative cure, which produces the radical cure, and prevents a relapse. In the hernia it performs a cure by uniting the two sides of the sac together, by means