OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 2 1 3 The capillary arteries in the foetus are probably as numerous as in an adult; perhaps more so, for we know that there is the same number of principal arteries in each; as far as we can trace them, they seem ' to send off the same number of smaller branches; and in many parts we find a great many more small vessels in the foetus than in the adult. In the eye, the membrane of the ear, &c., in all growing parts, such as ccallus, granulations, &c., we find a great many more vessels than in si- i milar-grown parts, or in the same parts when completely formed; not iin proportion to the size of the part, but more in number. These are •strong proofs that many arteries are obliterated in the adult. How much more vascular, therefore, must a child be than an adult, in pro- ; portion to its size, when in a much smaller compass a greater number of arteries are accumulated®! From this it would appear that the only great change in the vascular • system is elongation [and enlargement] of the vessels: for, as we find very little difference between the blood of a foetus and of an adult, it is natural to infer that the smallest vessels are nearly of the same size in both; for the termination of the arteries, or what may be called the operative part of the arterial system, being intended to perform the ! same functions in the foetus as in the adult, it is reasonable to suppose ' that the increase is in the length [and diameter] of the whole vascular ■ system ; and that the increase in the size of the trunks is in a uniform I gradation from the capillaries towards the heart, but never [in their aggregate capacity] becoming equal to the capillaries. If the preceding account be true or nearly so, we see that there must be a great proportional difference between the size of the two extremes of the arteries in the young subject and the adult. We may venture i to say that the aorta in the child is not one fourth of the size of that vessel in the adult, and that the capillaries are rather larger than those in the adult, which would of itself make the whole capillaries in the foetus more than four times the size of the aorta in the same ; and as these arteries are very short, the cone of course increases very fast. In the foetus in utero we are to consider that the aorta, at the begin- ning from the ventricle, is larger than in the adult, in proportion to the quantity of blood that passes through the foramen ovale : and beyond the entrance of the canalis arteriosus the aorta is increased in proportion to the size of the canalis arteriosus ; and it is at this part its size is to be [It should not be forgotten, however, that there are other parts which become de- veloped and require a large supply of blood in the adult. We may instance the mus- cular system, which can scarcely be supposed actually to contain an equal number of capillary vessels in the infant as in the adult. Some organs also, as the genital, must surely have a larger supply of vessels in the adult than in the infant.]