556 OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. §• 2. Of the strange Course of some Hulls. 1 lie difficulty of finding balls, I have just observed, often arises from the irregular course they take. The regularity of the passage of a bidl will in general be in proportion to its velocity and want of resistance, tor balls are turned aside in an inverse proportion to the force that they come with, and this is the reason why we seldom find them take a straight course; for if they are spent balls, the soft parts alone are capable of turning them; and if they come with a considerable velocity it is a chance they may hit some bone obliquely, and then they are also turned aside, for any body that gives a ball the least oblique resistance throws it out of its direct course ; therefore the balls that do not pass through and through (which are the only ones that are searched after), will be in general spent ones, excepting those that come directly against some considerable bone, as the thigh-bone, etc. As a proof that balls are easily thrown off obliquely, we often find that a ball shall enter the skin of the breast obliquely, and afterwards shall pass almost round the whole body under the skin. The skin here is strong enough to stop the ball coming out again, so that it turns it inwards, which, meeting with the ribs, it is again turned out against the skin, and so on alternately as long as it has force to go on; however, in many cases the ball goes a little way after it has passed through the skin, and when it meets with any hard body on that side next the centre of the body, such as a rib, its course is directed outwards, and it pierces the skin a second time; but the velocity of such balls must have been considerable. I have seen a ball pass in at one side of the shin-bone, and run across it under the skin, without either cutting the skin across or hurting the bone, which shows that the velocity could not be great; for we know that there is not sufficient room between these two parts in a natural state for a ball to pass; but the ball, after it had got under the skin, where there was room for it to cover itself, then came against the tibia, which threw it outwards, and the skin counteracting, it only raised the skin from the tibia, and passed on between them; but if this ball had had a sufficient velocity it would have either cut the skin across, or taken a piece out of the bone, or most probably both. Another circumstance in favour of the uncertainty of their direction is, that the parts wounded are often not in the same position that they were when they received the ball. The French soldier who was wounded in the arm was a striking instance of this. The ball entered the arm about its middle on the inside of the biceps muscle, and it was extracted from between the two scapulae, close on one side of the spinal process