FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 277 every part of the body has not equal strength, these proportions cannot be the same in every part of the same constitution. According to this idea of strength, the following parts, viz. muscles, cellular membrane, and skin, and more so in proportion as they are nearer to the source of the circulation, will be most manageable in inflammation and its con- sequences, because they are stronger in their powers of action than the other parts of the body. The other parts, as bone, tendon, ligament, &c., fall into an inflammation which is less in the power of art to manage, because, though the constitution is good, yet they have less powers within themselves, and therefore are attended with the feeling of their own weakness; and I believe they affect the constitution more readily than the former, because the constitution is more affected by local dis- ease when the parts have less power within themselves of doing well, and the effects, if bad, on the constitution reflect a backwardness on the little powers they have. Strength and weakness of the constitu- tion, or of parts, are synonymous terms with a greater or less quantity of animal life, or living principle joined with powers of action®. * [See note, p. 271. It is not easy to fix the exact import of the words “ too much strength” as used by our author. Properly, as applied to the constitution, strength should mean not only a vigorous but a well-balanced action of the various organs of the body amongst themselves ; and, as applied to parts, a just equalization of the va- rious functions carried on in individual parts, such as the nervous, vascular, secretive, absorbent, nutritive, &c. In this sense the strength can never be in excess; but pro- bably our author simply intended to express a tendency to excess of action of some one function or organ over that of another, which forms no part of strength. It is an im- portant practical truth, however, that persons who habitually live “above par” are the worst subjects to cope with any serious shock to the system; a tendency to diffuse cel- lular inflammation, gangrene, and low typhoid symptoms being a usual result of the effort made by the constitution under such circumstances to reestablish itself. As to parts “ having a feeling of their own weakness,” it is obvious that such expres- sions explain nothing when examined into, but contribute to keep true knowledge out by deceiving us with the semblance of it. If we find that the constitution is more in- jured by a disease affecting some structures than others, it should be our business to inquire strictly into the various facts connected with the two cases, with a view of drawing some general deductions from them, and not be satisfied with allegorizing the vital powers. At present I believe we must be content to regard it as an ultimate fact that parts affect the constitution in proportion to the weakness of their reparative powers; the whole system being, as it were, called upon to cooperate and unite its strength in support of the feeble part when it comes to be diseased. I would observe, by the way, that such cases as these mark more than any others the distinction between mere physiology and pathology. The most exact knowledge of the anatomical and physical properties of tho tissues, of their morbid appearances after death, and of their functions in a state of health, would afford little or no clue to the actual relations which subsist between them and the constitution in a state of disease. The mere physiologist might predict with tolerable certainty the leading consequences of inflammation affecting the vital organs, but he would be totally at a loss to conjecture