tiie adhesive inflammation. 3G8 plan is to he pursued, with the addition only of the specific treatment; hut this must not he omitted, as the inflammation depends upon the specific disease. It is this critical knowledge which becomes the basis of practice, and it is this which requires the greatest sagacity; and I must own it requires more knowledge than comes to the share of most practitioners. As every inflammation has a cause, that cause should he removed before resolution can take place; for the animal {economy having a disposition within itself to discontinue diseased action, that of course subsides upon the removal of the cause, and this disposition is so strong in some as to appear to act alone. That removing the cause is a mode of resolution is proved in the venereal bubo; for by taking off the venereal action with mercury, the inflammation subsides, if another mode of action does not arise*. Inflammation, where it must suppurate, is most probably a restora- tive act, and cannot be resolved in those cases where restoration becomes necessary : as, for instance, in a wound that is kept exposed, the inflam- matory act of restoration becomes or is rendered necessary, and it takes place, but bring those parts together, or let the blood coagulate and dry upon it, and it becomes unnecessary. I have already observed, when ti eating of the causes of inflammation, which might be called the spon- taneous, that they probably arose from a state of parts in which they could not exist, similar to exposed surfaces, and therefore this act of restoration became necessary. If this be true, then probably by alter- ing that state of parts, as we can [in the latter instances] by bringing the divided parts together, the inflammation would either not rise or immediately cease; but as we are not in all cases acquainted with the mode of restoring those natural actions, we are obliged to be restricted to those methods that render them easier under this state, and which are often capable of turning the balance in favour of resolution. As inflamed parts are not always visible, it becomes necessary that we should have some rule to inform us whether the part is inflamed or not; to ascertain which we must have recourse to all the symptoms formerly mentioned, except the visible ones. We ought also to have a guide re- specting the kind of inflammation, more especially as it is not sufficient, in many cases, to be guided entirely by its appearances, even where it is in sight. It is often therefore very necessary to inquire into the cause of the inflammation, the nature of the constitution, the effects that for- mer inflammation has produced, and even into the temper and mind of the patient. The cure of inflammation is resolution, and the attempt towards it is principally to be made when the inflammation is in the adhesive state; for wc find that often it goes no further, but subsides, and this is reso- * Vide Treatise on Venereal Disease, Vo!. II.