OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 166 These experiments not only prove that the muscular power of an artery acts chiefly in a transverse direction, but also that the elastic power exists almost entirely in the external coat, and therefore that the internal coat must be the seat of the muscular power. Experiments on the arteries of a horse bled to death.—To ascertain the muscular power of contraction in the arteries, and determine the pro- portions which it bears to their elasticity, I made the following experi- ments upon the aorta, iliac, axillary, carotid, crural, humeral, and radial arteries of a horse. In this animal the muscles were all allowed to con- tract equally, and therefore we might reasonably presume that the ves- sels (at least such of them as were furnished with muscles) would also be contracted, the stimulus of death acting equally upon muscles in every form and every situation. The animal had also been bled to death, so that the vessels had an additional stimulus to produce contraction in them, as we know that all vessels in animals endeavour as much as pos- sible to adapt themselves to the quantity of fluid circulating through them. As I supposed the larger arteries had less of this power than the smaller, and that perhaps in an inverse proportion to their size, in order to ascertain that fact, and also to contrast the two powers, I made my first experiments upon the aorta and its nearest branches, continuing them on the other branches as these became smaller and smaller. The arteries were taken out of the body with great care, so as not in the least to alter their texture or state of contraction. The experiments were made in the following manner: I took short sections of the dif- ferent arteries, slit them up in a longitudinal direction, and in that state measured the breadth of each, by which means, as I conceived, I could ascertain their muscular contraction; then taking the same sections, and stretching them transversely, I measured them in that state, which gave me the greatest elongation their muscular and elastic powers were capable of. As by this extension I had entirely destroyed their muscu- lar contraction, whatever degree of contraction they exerted afterwards must, I believe, have been owing to elasticity. Having allowed them to contract, I again measured them a third time in that state, and thus ascertained three different states of vessels, between which I could com- pare the difference either in the same or different sections, so as from the result to deduce with some degree of certainty the extent of these powers in every size of vessel. I say only with some degree of cer- tainty ; for I do not pretend to affirm that these experiments will always be exact; circumstances often happening in the body which prevent the stimulus of death from taking place with equal effect in every part. I have accordingly seen in the same artery some parts wider than others,