GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 93 . 5. Of the Quantity of Blood, and course of its Circulation. I It appears to me impossible to ascertain the quantity of blood in the body, and the knowledge of it would probably give very little assistance -making of the latter about 38,232 cubic inches per day, or nearly 10J oz. troy of solid carbon. (Phil. Trans. 1808, p. 25G.) Atmospheric air consists of 79 parts of nitrogen and 21 of oxygen ; but, according to •Allen and Pepys, the nitrogen remained unaffected by the process of respiration, which consisted solely in the abstraction of a quantity of oxygen exactly sufficient to convert . the carbon of the blood into carbonic acid, bulk for bulk, equal w ith that of the oxygen -abstracted. It was therefore natural to suppose that the black colour of venous blood depended on the presence of free carbon, or carbon in some peculiar state of combina- tion, which was given out from the lungs in the act of respiration. The blood, in short, was supposed to be carbonized in the extreme capillaries of the body, and to be decar- bonized in the lungs. It has been ascertained, however, by more correct experiment, first, that the quantity of oxygen lost does not always correspond with the quantity of carbonic acid emitted from the lungs; 2nd, that nitrogen is absorbed or given out under certain circum- stances; and 3rd, that carbonic acid exists ready formed in venous blood (see note, p. 28.). \ Dr. Edwards found that the quantity of oxygen consumed above the quantity of carbon produced, varied in the lower tribes of animals from nothing to one third of the whole (De l'Influence desAgem physiques sur la Pie) ; while, on the other hand, it has been re- marked by Dr. Prout that the amount of carbonic acid produced also varied according to the age of the animal, the diet, the time of the day, the season of the year, the state of the atmosphere, the quantity of exercise, and many other physical circumstances. (Ann. of Phil., ii. 330., and iv. 331-4.) Edwards found similar variations in the quan- tity of nitrogen (op. cit., p. 420.). When pigeons were confined in oxygen gas con- taining from one to two per cent, of nitrogen, the volume of gas remained undiminished, and only so much oxygen was found to have been abstracted as would have happened if the pigeons had been made to respire common air; but then a much smaller quantity of carbonic acid was formed, the deficiency being made up by an evolution of nitrogen. By varying the experiment, and mixing oxygen and hydrogen with a small propor- tion of nitrogen (the oxygen being in the same proportion as in common air), no loss of oxygen was sustained, but a quantity of hydrogen disappeared, which was exactly replaced by an equal proportion of nitrogen. (Allen and Pepys, Phil. Trans. 1829, p. 279.) During the month of March Dr. Edwards confined frogs in pure hydrogen, from which he found that volumes of carbonic acid, nearly equalling the whole bulk of the animals employed, were evolved, although the lungs had previously been exhausted by pressure. A young kitten also, confined for nineteen minutes in the same manner in hydrogen, evolved twelve times more carbonic acid than could be accounted for by the residual air in the lungs when the experiment began. (Op. cit., pp. 437—465.) It may be distinctly concluded, therefore, from these facts, that the lungs are capable of absorbing and giving out gaseous matters, particularly oxygen and carbonic acid. In man the quantity of oxygen abstracted from the atmosphere pretty exactly equals the quantity of carbonic acid produced ; but whether the whole oxygen is absorbed, and the whole carbonic acid evolved from the blood, or whether the lungs are merely the seat in which the carbon of the blood combines with the oxygen of the air to form car- bonic acid, remains at present a question. From the system of antagonism which is