31 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD.' blood will in time coagulate even in the vessels themselves, and under certain circumstances sooner, perhaps, than anywhere else : as, for in- stance, when there is a disposition to mortification. In this case we find the blood coagulated even in the larger vessels. I have seen a mor- tification come on the foot and leg, and when it had advanced only to a certain degree, the patient died. On examining the parts above the mortified part, I found the crural and iliac arteries filled completely with strong coagulated blood : we may thence infer that the tendency to mortification in the vessels produced this disposition in the blood. If the coagulation should be supposed to have arisen from the blood being stopped in the large vessels at the mortified part, let us reflect that this cannot account for it: the same thing ought then to happen in an amputation, or in any case where the larger vessels are tied up. In a priapism the blood does not coagulate, except it threatens mor- tification. The separation of the blood, either from itself, that is when divided into small portions, or separated from the living body, becomes one of the immediate causes of the coagulation of the lymph ; therefore the contact of blood with blood, or with living vessels, in some degree re- tards coagulation : this is the reason why blood which comes from the vessels slowly, or falls from some height, or runs some way on the sur- face of a dish, coagulates sooner than when the contrary circumstances happen; and upon this principle it is, that blood when shaken in a phial will coagulate the sooner, even if shaken in a vacuum. A deep mass of blood is also, from the same cause, longer in coagulating than a shal- low one. From the above observations it must appear evident that neither cold, nor air, nor rest, alone, has any influence on the coagulating power of the blood ; there must, therefore, be some other principle on which this process depends; and, as it retains its fluid state while circulating, and even for a long time when at rest in the living vessels, and coagulates when the vessels or the body dies, it might naturally be supposed that stirred with a stick for two minutes, while the second was allowed to rest. The two former concreted in 3ยง to 4 minutes, the latter or second portion did not concrete till C minutes, and at the end of eight minutes the coagulum was much less firm than that of the other two. (Thackrah, p. 68.) Scudamore observed a difference of one minute. (Op. cit., p. 40.) Prater observed a difference, but it was not so considerable. (Op. cit., p. 18.) It should be noticed, however, that these experiments were made in open vessels, while those which were made in close vessels were much less decisive. Agita- tion promotes coagulation by bringing the interior particles of the mass into contact with the sides of the inert vessel, which will necessarily have the effect of rapidly dissipating its residual vitality. It is on the same principle, that a small portion of crassamentum dropped into fresh-drawn blood accelerates coagulation.]