OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 417 and still prevent a great deal of mischief. Suppuration does certainly sometimes stop, after having begun, which shows that there is a prin- ciple in the .animal ceconomy0 by which the machine is capable of pro- ducing this effect*. I have seen buboes cured by vomits, after suppuration has been con- siderably advanced, and it is a very common termination of scrofulous abscesses; but in scrofulous abscesses we very seldom find inflamma- tion. This process appears to be a leading circumstance in ulceration, which is the very reverse of unionb : even in superficial sores, which are the most likely to continue suppuration if excited, we find by allowing them to scab, when they will admit of it, that the act which admits of scabbing is the reverse of suppuration, and it ceases; however, it is a process which the animal ceconomy does not readily accept of, and our powers in producing this effect are but very small. If these powers could be increased by any means it would be a salutary discovery, be- * T have formerly observed, that the inflammation often goes off without producing suppuration; and I have also mentioned instances of suppuration going off without the parts having produced granulations, and then the parts fall back into the adhesive state, and the matter being absorbed, they are left in nearly the same state as before the in- flammation came on i as a presumptive proof of this, in many of the large cavities which have been allowed to inflame and suppurate (by having been opened) we find them often doing well, without ever forming granulations, and that suppuration generally goes off; and I do not believe that they ever fall back into the adhesive state, so as to unite the parts, but the parts resume their original and natural state or disposition, and no adhesions are formed. This appears sometimes to happen in cases of the empyema after the operation has been performed0. I have seen cases where wounds had been made into the cavity of the thorax, where there was every reason to suppose the whole cavity was in a state of suppuration, and yet those patients got well. I can hardly sup- pose that in these cases the parts had granulated and united in the cure, as the cellular membrane does, because I have seen many similar cases where the patients have died and no granulations have been found; and I have seen cases of the hydrocele attempted to be cured radically by the caustic, in which, when the slough came out, suppuration came on, but the orifice healing too soon, suppuration has ceased, and the cure was thought to be completed ; but a return of the disease has led to another attempt, and, by laying open the whole sac, it has been found that the tunica vaginalis was perfectly entire: in such the fluids were a mothery serum. I have seen abscesses go back in the same manner; but I believe that this process is more common to scrofulous suppura- tions than any other, and I believe to the erysipelatous. I have seen joints heal after having suppurated and been opened, without having produced granulations, leaving a kind of joint, even when the cartilages have exfoliated from the ends of the bon°es, which was known by the grating of the two ends of the bones on one another. * [“ Animal ceconomy of diseases” in the text.] [ The meaning of the author I apprehend to be, that even in ulceration, which is an act directly opposed to reunion, the cessation or diminution of discharge is a lead- ing circumstance towards the cure.] e [See Vol. I., p. 443, note.] VOL. III. 2 E