GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 72 the parts which are visited by red blood must have a mixture of both. As there are two circulations in every animal above the insect, one in the lungs in those that breathe air, or in the gills, as in fish, in those that breathe water, and the other the general circulation to the body in both, we find the two colours of the globules not corresponding to the same system of vessels in each. The scarlet is the venal blood in the lungs, which afterwards becomes the arterial in the body, where it is commonly seen, and hence it is called the arterial blood: the modena is the venal blood of the body, and is the blood also of the pulmonary artery; but as it is commonly seen in the veins only of the body, it is called the venal blood; the scarlet colour, therefore, is acquired in the lungs, and the modena in the body. There are so many proofs of this that it hardly requires any illustration; yet many circumstances and experiments may be brought in direct proof of it. I bled a man in the temporal artery and in the vein of the arm at the same time, each into a phial. The blood of the artery was of a florid red, and the venal was dark. The arterial kept its colour, and did not separate its serum ; but this was singular, for in others it does separate its serum and coagu- lum : the venal separated into its constituent parts as usual. Although this, however, is a general rule, yet there are many excep- tions ; for we find in many cases the scarlet colour of the blood in the arteries not changed in the veins, and under some circumstances the modena taking place in the arteries, as well as where blood is extrava- sated in the body*. • [In ordinary bleeding it is not uncommon to find the blood which issues from the vein of a bright arterial tint; or sometimes the stream appears to be composed of dark- and light-coloured blood in nearly equal proportions, as if the artery and vein had both been punctured. This is particularly observable in excited states of the circulation, when at the same time the function of respiration is carried on without impediment. Baglivi noticed this appearance of the blood in bleeding patients who were labouring under hectic fever; but it is certainly much more frequent in rheumatic attacks and after brisk exercise. Sometimes this appearance is produced by the warm bath (Tltack- rah, p. 181), and in a less degree by warm climates; sometimes by fits, paroxysms of palpitation and syncope, and not unfrequently by common inflammation and fever. Broughton found the blood in the veins of animals which had been made to respire oxygen gas as florid as in the arteries. Thackrah remarked that a similar effect was generally produced by a full dose of prussic acid. It would seem, therefore, either that the blood is unduly oxygenized in the lungs, or else that it is hurried through the circulation with too great rapidity to allow it to undergo the usual changes in the periphery of the body. The peripheral and pulmonary circulations being antagonized to each other, either of these causes may produce the effect by destroying the balance which neces- sarily subsists between them in a normal state: besides which, it is extremely probable that this balance may sometimes be disturbed through the mere influence of the nervous system, independently of any alteration in the physical conditions under which the vital functions arc performed. Thus, Dupuytren found that the blood was only imper-