HORNY EXCRESCENCES OE THE HUMAN BODY. 633 mouis, and the fluid in all of them was gritty; the openings from which the matter issued were very small, the cysts collapsed and dried up, leaving the substance from which the horn proceeded distinguishable at the bottom. These cysts gave little pain till the horns began to shoot, and then became very distressing, and continued so, with short intervals, till they were removed. This case is drawn up by the surgeon who at- tended the woman for many years, which gave him frequent opportu- nities of seeing the disease in its different stages, and acquiring an accurate history of its symptoms. Mrs. Allen, a middle-aged woman, resident in Leicestershire, had an incysted tumour upon her head, immediately under the scalp, very move- able, and evidently containing a fluid. It gave no pain unless pressed upon, and grew to the size of a small hen’s egg. A few years ago it burst, and discharged a fluid : this diminished in quantity, and in a short time a horny excrescence, similar to those above-mentioned, grew out from the orifice, which has continued to increase in size; and in the month of November 1 / 90, the time I saw it, was about five inches long, and a little more than an inch in circumference at its base. It was a good deal contorted, and the surface very irregular, having a laminated appearance. It moved readily with the scalp, and seemed to give no pain upon motion; but when much handled the surrounding skin became inflamed. This woman came to London, and exhibited herself as a show for money ; and it is highly probable that so rare an occurrence would have sufficiently excited the public attention to have made it answer her expectations in point of emolument, had not the circumstance been made known to her neighbours in the country, who were much dissatisfied with the measure, and by their importunity obliged her husband to take her into the country. That the cases which I have related may not be considered as pecu- liar instances from which no conclusions can be drawn, it may not be amiss to take notice of some of the most remarkable histories of this kind, mentioned by authors, and see how far they agree with those I have stated in the general characters that are sufficiently obvious to strike a common observer; for the vague and indefinite terms in which authors express themselves on this subject show plainly that they did not understand the nature of the disease, and their accounts of it are not very satisfactory to their readers. In the Ephemerides Academia: Nature Curiosorum there are two cases of horns growing from the human body. One of these instances was a German woman*, who had several swellings, or ganglions, upon differ- * Ephem. Acad. Nat. Cur. Dec, iii. An.V. Append, p. 1-1S.