623 THE MUSCLES OF DEGLUTITION. stroy the patient; but spasmodic contractions admit of being cured. I have known a case of this kind get well in a fortnight from the use of electricity, which had not been at all relieved by mercury, although the mouth was affected by it for a month. There is another cause of difficulty in swallowing, which is the reverse of contraction, viz. paralysis. Whether the muscular coats of the oeso- phagus are ever affected by it I cannot determine; but the muscles of the pharynx have become paralytic, and the patient has died of hunger. As this disease is only rendered dangerous from the want of a sub- stitute for deglutition, it becomes our duty to adopt some artificial mode of conveying food into the stomach, by which the patient may be kept alive while the disease continues, and such medicines may be admini- stered as are thought conducive to the cure. A successful instance of this practice is given in the following Case of well-marked paralysis in the muscles of the pharynx ; tire relation of which is given by the patient. John S 1, about fifty years of age, became hypochondriac and at- tacked by what are called nervous disorders, in consequence of anxiety of mind, brought on by various distresses. In the beginning of his com- plaints he felt something crack within his head, and from that period his sensations became very acute, his passions, sympathies, and aversions exceedingly strong. December 28, 1786, while under the influence of an uncommon de- gree of hypochondriasis, about one o’clock in the morning, he brought up a glutinous substance from his stomach, like the white of an egg, which seemed to relieve him, but did not remove an aversion which he had taken to his relations, his children, and even to life itself, of which he was tired. He afterwards continued affected with low spirits and pains in the head, became restless, and turned his mind to religious subjects; as these affections either increased or diminished, he had frequent and severe fits of crying. About the 21st of February, 1790, he had a violent cold in his head, with a considerable running from the nose; and on the 7th of March, between one and two in the morning, awoke with a sense of choking, and felt soon after a numbness in the whole of his right side, together with a paralysis of the muscles of deglutition, which deprived him of the power of swallowing. By the advice of a physician he was cupped, blistered round the throat, and electrified; he was, in the mean time, supported by nourishing cly- sters. March the 9th, finding no benefit from this plan, he waited upon Mr. Hunter, with a letter from Mr. Cumming, watchmaker, accompanied by Mr. Duncan the surgeon.