70 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF TIIE BLOOD. on these we generally form our opinion ; for though in some animals which have white muscles the liver, kidney, and heart may be nearly as red as in others whose muscles are universally as red, yet, as the ( muscles are white, there must be a deficiency in the red globules on the whole; for if these parts which are red in animals having white ‘ muscles, as the heart, liver, etc., have no more than their due proportion with other animals that are universally red, there must be in such ani- ’ mals a deficiency of red globules on the whole. This idea may be gra- dually carried on, from the animal which has fewest red muscles, to those whose muscles are universally red and of a high colour; even in the same species the colour of all the muscles is not equally high. ;■ What are called different temperaments have their muscles redder or i paler; the darker the colour of the skin, hair, etc. of any one species, i I believe the blood is in proportion redder. When a part, of whatever ; kind, is red, it takes place in consequence of its vessels being large enough to carry red blood; and therefore, when we find a muscle red we know it arises from the same cause. When a part, on the contrary, is white, as a tendon, it is because its vessels are small, and have little or none of the red blood passing along them, although it may probably be as vascular as the muscle to which it belongs *; and those animals that have no red blood have white flesh universallyf, and this, probably, no less vascular than the flesh which receives red blood. The blood in the same animals is not equally deep-coloured in every part; that is, every part of the body has not its blood equally loaded with red globules, or, at least, it is not equally red, even in parts of the same construction and use, such as muscles; this arises from the red globules not being carried into those parts in equal proportion: these are the white parts of animals ; such muscles, in animals used for food, are called white meat. In animals which have these muscles there is commonly not so much red blood as in others where these parts are more universally red; and perhaps the red part of the blood is not pushed so far in them as in those which have it in a larger proportion. There are some animals, however, which have a larger quantity of red globules in the blood, yet have some of their muscles of a lighter colour than others: ’ * Conceiving that the amnion of a calf might have but few vessels, I injected a piece of it with quicksilver, first drying its edges all round on the edge of a dish, while the middle of it lay in the dish, in water; but the whole became one mass of vessels. The intention of this experiment was to see, if possible, the communication between the ar- teries and the veins j but the mass of vessels prevented every view of this kind. f The redness of the blood is of great use towards the knowledge of diseases; many inflammations are known by it when on the skin, and oven the kind of inflammation is distinguished by the kind of redness: also putrid diseases are distinguished when the blood is extravasated. The quantity in the face is a sign of health or disease.