135 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. :'irk-coloured sediment, and a light-coloured blood was suspended, hich had begun to subside, leaving the fluid above perfectly transpa- rent, and of a beautiful red colour. The different portions of blood hich had been first mixed with the salt, and afterwards with water, ad the cloud exactly like that of the pure blood, but there was no se- gment whatever at the bottom of the vessel: this cloud gradually sub- ded, and left the fluid above of a beautiful red colour, and also quite .-ansparent. At this time (viz. twenty-four hours after the mixture of me salt with the blood,) another half ounce was mixed with one pound f water, and next day the appearances were exactly similar to what ave been already described. The sediment in the pure blood was most robably the coagulating lymph; and as there was none in the others, it 5 most likely that the lymph in them did not now coagulate. As medicines, when taken into the circulation, whether by the stomach jr by the skin, produce considerable effects on the constitution, I wished :o know what effect such substances would have upon the blood with regard to the act and power of its coagulation. Two ounces of blood were received from the arm into a vessel, as a standard of natural coagulation. Two ounces more were taken in an- other vessel, to which one ounce of water was added. The intention of :his addition was to put this blood in the same circumstances with blood in other comparative trials respecting water, so that the difference, if .there was any, must belong to the substance mixed with the blood, in- dependent of the water. Two ounces more blood were received in an- other vessel, to which was added one ounce of the decoction of bark. These different quantities were taken from one person, one after the other, in the same order in which they are here set down. After six minutes, the blood mixed with water was quite coagulated ; after nine minutes, that mixed with the decoction of Peruvian bark formed a loose coagulum; after twelve minutes, the blood first drawn coagulated : the coagula of the first- and second-drawn blood were equally firm, the water in the second having been squeezed out along with the serum; but that mixed with the decoction of bark was much less so. It appears from these experiments that water rather hastened coagulation, but made it neither firmer nor looser in the texture. In the following experiments the blood was first all received into one vessel, and stirred before it was mixed with the different substances. The intention of this was, that the three portions of blood might all be exactly under the same circumstances. Two ounces were poured into a vessel as a standard of natural coa- gulation. Two ounces more of blood were poured into another vessel,