284 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. very readily admit of the adhesive inflammation, which is proved by dis- sections ; for we hardly ever open a human subject where there are not in the circumscribed cavities considerable adhesions ; and most probably many in the common cellular membrane, if they were equally visible. The deeper-seated parts, however, do not in common so readily pass into the suppurative inflammation ; and this readiness to accept of the adhesive most probably becomes a cause why the suppurative inflam- mation does not so readily take place. But if the inflammation comes on at once, with great violence, it would appear to pass almost at once over the adhesive immediately to the suppurative action; or perhaps where it may appear to have done this there may be an erysipelatous disposition; for although it is not the disposition of the erysipelatous inflammation to suppurate, yet it has a greater backwardness to produce adhesions. This effect we often find take place in the abdomen, in the thorax, &c., and I have already mentioned that I suspect the erysipe- latous inflammation does, in some degree, reverse the common rules of the common inflammation, by being more ready to suppurate in deep- seated parts than in the superficial, and extend much further towards the centre of the body. I suspect too that the coverings of the brain, viz. pia and dura mater, have something of this disposition. They ap- pear to suppurate very readily, or with very little inflammation; for from a slight blow on the head we find these membranes much oftener suppurate than we should from a similar blow on the shin-bone: for instance, a blow on this bone will only produce suppuration on the ex- ternal surface, very seldom in its internal cavity; but a blow on the head that shall not even produce the adhesive inflammation in the scalp shall make those membranes suppurate®. Inflammation, wherever situated, is always more violent on that side of the point of inflammation next to the external surface. This effect we often find take place in the abdomen, in the thorax, &c., and I have already mentioned that I suspect inflammation, wherever situated, if there be a continuity of parts between it and the external surface, will be greater on that side next to the external surface of the part than towards the centre of the part. This also equally takes place in inflammation, although close to the different outlets of the body, and is probably most easily demonstrated in them. Thus, for instance, if an inflammation comes on in the socket of a tooth at its root, inflammation will not take place on the inside of the jaw, but towards the outside ; and if it is be- * [XI,is may be accounted for by the jar which the cranium receives, which often leads to the immediate separation of the dura mater from its internal surface. A blow on the dead body will produce the same effect.]