246 UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. The second species of ecchymosis is that in which the blood has not coagulated but remains fluid. This case, although it also frequently oc- curs, does not always terminate so well as the former, nor allow of such a salutary termination, where an opening has been made, either by the accident or by art, for then suppuration will be produced all over the cavity ; more caution is, therefore, necessary to prevent an opening. It has often the appearance of an encysted tumour; but, being an imme- diate consequence of some accident upon the part, its nature becomes readily understood, though sometimes from its situation it has the sym- ptoms of an aneurism attending it, neither does the cause of it contra- dict this idea. If formed over a large artery, the tumour will be attended with a pulsation; but when from this cause it cannot be made to subside by pressure, yet it is not, therefore, to be supposed harmless, as iu fact it requires to be treated with great caution. If the pulsation should arise from the real influx of blood, this will soon be shown by the in- crease of the tumour, and will lead to the proper treatment, viz. open- ing it and stopping the bleeding vessel3. This seldom happens from contusion, the kind of accident destroying in some degree [the texture of the parts, and] the free exit of the blood out of the artery; and if the tumour should not increase after a certain period, even if there be a pretty evident pulsation, we may then be certain that it assumes this symptom from some neighbouring artery or arteries. The ecchymosis which is produced on the head of a child during birth has sometimes a pulsation, arising from that of the brain, as the sutures are still open; and every tumour of the scalp, whether from a blow or any other cause, may be mistaken for aneurism, if it appears before the fontanel be closed, and should it be opened without proper examination may dis- concert the ignorant surgeon. That the blood does not coagulate in this species of ecchymosis, must arise from some peculiar mode of action in the vessels, occasioned by the effects of the injury ; for I apprehend that in such cases the blood dies in the act of extravasation, in the same manner as the blood of the men- strual discharge whenever it is effused. The ecchymosis which we have mentioned as happening very com- monly to children in the birth, particularly under the scalp, requires nothing to be done, as by waiting with patience the whole will in ge- neral be absorbed ; but although this is commonly the event in new-born a [This constitutes the false diffused aneurism of authors, which always requires tb* the vessel should be secured both above and below the wound with as little delay M possible. The pressure of the effused blood on the superior portion of the artery often prevents any pulsation from being perceptible.]