380 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. bleeding appears to be the immediate remedy, for hardness rather shows strong contractile action of the vessels not in a state of inflammation, which also implies strong action of the blood, and from such a pulse a sizy blood will generally be found. But even a quick hard pulse and sizy blood are not always to be depended upon as sure indications of bleeding being the proper method of the resolution of inflammations : more must be taken into the account. The kind of blood is of great consequence to be known ; for although it should prove sizy, yet if it lies squat in the bason, and is not firm in texture, and if the symptoms at the same time arc very violent, bleed- ing must be performed very sparingly, if at all; for I suspect that under such a state of blood, if the symptoms continue, bleeding is not the proper mode of treatment. The cases of this kind which have been re- lated are strong proofs of this. As the pulse, abstracted from all other considerations, is not an ab- solute criterion to go by, and as sizy blood and a strong coagulum are after-proofs, let us see if there are any collateral circumstances that can throw some light on this subject, so as to allow us to judge d priori whether it be right to bleed or not, where the pulse does not of itself indicate it. Let us remember that in treating of inflammation of dif- ferent parts I took notice of the pulse peculiar to each part, which I may now' be allowed to repeat. First, I observed that an inflammation in parts not vital, or such as the stomach did not sympathize with, if there were great powrers and the constitution not very irritable, the pulse Avas full, frequent, and hard. Secondly, that on the contrary, in inflamma- tions of the same parts, if the constitution Avas Aveak, irritable, ike., that then the pulse Avas small, frequent, and hard, although perhaps not so much so as Avhen in vital parts. Thirdly, that Avhen the inflammation Avas in a vital part, such sis the stomach or intestines, or such as the stomach readily sympathizes with, then the pulse Avas quick, small, and hard, simi- lar to the above. Now in the first stated positions avc have some guide, for in the first of these, A’iz. Avhere the pulse is strong, &c., there bleed- ing is most probably absolutely necessary, and the symptoms, with the state of blood joined, will determine better the future conduct; but in the second, where the pulse is small, very frequent, and hard, bleeding should be performed with great caution. Yet in inflammations of the second stated parts the constitution seems to be more irritable, giving more the signs of Aveakness, as if less in the poAver of the constitution to manage. Bleeding, restricted to tAvo or three ounces, can do no harm by way of trial, and, as in the first case, the symptoms and blood are to determine the future repetition; but in the third, or vital parts, viz. either the stomach or such as the stomach sympathizes Avith. we arc yet, I am