GRANULATIONS. 489 suppuration; but this last seems not to be so commonly the case with granulations. I believe that no internal canal will granulate, in conse- quence of suppuration, except there has been a breach of surface, and then it is not the natural surface which granulates, but the cellular membrane, etc., as in other parts. Wounds that are kept exposed do not granulate till inflammation is over, and suppuration has fully taken placea; for as the suppurative in- flammation constantly follows, when wounds come to be under such circumstances, it would seem to be in such cases a leading and necessary process for disposing the vessels to granulation. Setting out then with the supposition that this inflammation is in general necessary, under the above circumstances, for disposing the ves- sels to form granulations, we shall at once see how it may operate in the same manner, whether it arises spontaneously from a wound, the laceration of parts, mortification, bruise, caustic, or in short any other power which destroys or exposes the innumerable internal cells or surfaces, so as to prevent their carrying on their natural functions. Few surfaces in consequence of abscesses granulate till they are ex- posed, so that few or no abscesses granulate till they are opened, either of themselves or by art; and therefore in an abscess, even of very long standing, we seldom if ever find granulations. In abscesses, after they have been opened, there is generally one surface that is more disposed to granulate than the others, which is the surface next to the centre of the body in which the suppuration took place. The surface next to the skin hardly ever has the disposition to granulate : indeed, before opening, its action was that of ulceration, the very reverse of the other ; but even after opening, that side under the skin hardly granulates, or at least not readily. I may further observe, that exposure is so neces- sary to granulation, even on such surfaces as arise from a broken con- tinuity of parts, that if the abscess is very deep-seated they will not granulate kindly without being freely exposed, which alone often be- comes a cause why deep-seated abscesses do not heal so readily, and often become fistulous. Upon the same principle of granulations forming more readily upon that surface which is next to the centre, or opposite to the surface of the body, is to be considered their tendency to the skin. Granulations al- ways tend to the skin, which is exactly similar to vegetation, for plants always grow from the centre of the earth towards the surfaceb ; and this a [It is a singular circumstance that although exposure seems to be a necessary con- dition for granulations to take place, yet subsequent seclusion seems to be equally neces- sary for their continuance, to effect which is one of the principal objects of all dressings 1 h [Sec note, p. 287.] p