ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 607 raised, so as to make room to feel for the pulsation of the artery; some portion of cellular membrane and lymphatic glands were necessarily dis- sected and removed. With my fingers I then separated the muscular fibres, and tore away the connecting parts till the artery could be plainly felt in pulsation : it was then necessary to divide a part of the fascia covering the artery, which was done by carrying the back of the knife on Mr. Cline’s nail, while his finger pressed upon the naked artery ; after which the finger and thumb could surround and compress the vessel: an eye-probe, armed with a strong flat ligature, was then pushed through the cellular membrane, and carried under the artery. This being effected, we had such command of the vessel as to be able to strip it down, and pass another ligature somewhat lower. This last ligature was then tied, the first being left loose, to secure Its against accident. “ The threads being separated and secured, the wound was lightly dressed, the tumour left in its natural situation, and the patient put to bed, with the loss of only four or five ounces of blood during the opera- tion. No pulsation could be perceived in the tumour after the ligature was tied. “ 0° Saturday, November 4th, he had slept well, was easy, and there wos sufficient warmth in the extremity to assure me of some circulation. On the 5th, the discharge from the wounded lymphatics was so abun- dant as to make it necessary to remove the superficial dressings; the tumour was rather softer to the touch, and the skin about the apex of it began to shrivel. •' The discharge of lymph continued till the 9th, and then the wound began to digest; affording, however, a very small quantity of pus. The tumour grew thinner at one point, and seemed as if disposed to ulcer- ate the integuments. I his day I passed a bleeding-ligature round the leg, just below the knee, and the veins tumefied sufficiently to have hied freely if they had been punctured. “ 10th. He was feverish in the evening. " llth- He had stools from some laxatives I had directed and was better. 12th. 1 he tumour* was very thin at one part, and a fluctuation evidently to be felt. The limb was warm and moveable, but the patient was feverish, and delirious at night. A decoction of bark, with a seda- tive bolus, was directed for him ; but he would not take them. 13th. I he wound looked florid, and afforded good pus ; the pa- tient was feverish and delirious; the tumour was threatening to burst. This day he took his medicines. “ 14th. He became sensible, but was languid and hot ; the tumour burst, and discharged serum and grumous blood ; he fainted ; the dress-