HORNY EXCRESCENCES OF THE HUMAN BODY. 635 are the most accurate and particular with respect to their growth; and in all of them we find the origin was from a tumour, as in the two cases I have related; and, although the nature of the tumour is not particu- larly mentioned, there can be no doubt of its being of the incysted kind, since in its progress it exactly resembled them, remaining stationary for a long time, and then coming forwards to the skin; and the horn be- ing much smaller than the tumour previously to the formation of the horn is a proof that the tumour must have burst and discharged its contents. From the foregoing account it must appear evident that these homy excrescences are not to be ranked among the appearances called lusvs nature; nor are they altogether the product of disease, although un- doubtedly the consequence of a local disease having previously existed. They are, more properly speaking, the result of certain operations in the part for its own restoration; but the actions of the animal (Eco- nomy being unable to bring them back to their original state, this spe- cies of excrescence is formed as a substitute for the natural cuticular covering. lo explain the manner in which these horns are formed it will be necessary to consider the nature of incysted tumours a little more fully ; and in doing so we shall find that this particular species does not differ in its principle, nor materially in its effects, from many others which are not uncommonly met with in the human body, as well as in those of many other animals, which, as they are more frequent in their oc- currence, are also much better understood. Incysted tumours differ exceedingly among themselves, both in the nature of their contents, and in their progress towards the external sur- face of the body. Many of them have no reference to our present pur- pose ; it is only the more indolent kind to which I mean now to advert: some of these, when examined, are not found to contain a fluid, but a small quantity of thick, curd-like matter, mixed with cuticle broken down into small parts; and upon exposing the internal surface of the cyst, it is found to have a uniform cuticular covering adhering to it, si- milar to that of the cutis on the surface of the body, from which it only differs in being thinner, and more delicate, bearing a greater resem- blance to that which covers the lips. Others of this kind, instead of having cuticle for their contents, are filled with hair mixed with a curdled inches long, cut off the second vertebra of the neck of a woman in that neighbour- “ ®r; GreS°r>' said that one of seven ir-ches long, and of a dark brown colour wa . cut off from a woman’s temple at Edinburgh. " Dr. Norris said that two horns had been cut off from a woman’s head in Cheshire.’1