265 UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. mation has either been considerably prevented, or subdued by proper applications or by time, for which there probably are more remedies than for an inflammation arising from any other cause, as if there was some- thing specific in such causes*. Whatever will abate an inflammation arising from accident will have the same effect upon a scald or a burn; and, from the diversities of applications, we have opportunities of know- ing the best. Oil was long an application, but which has no virtue: spirits of wine has also been long applied, and with very good effect. The common application, which is a soap made with lime-water and oil, seemed to answer better; and now vinegar is strongly recommended, and I think with justice, as far as I have seen. Cold lessens all inflammations, and is a very good application where it can be applied, but it cannot be applied so universally as many others; however, cold has this disadvantage, that the pain, although removed while under the application, occurs with double force when it is removed, much more than from any of the other applications, and the reason is evident, for, as the warmth returns, the pain is increased by the warmth, even in sound parts. On the contrary, it is recommended that when a part is burnt to hold it to the fire as close and as long as it can be held, which undoubtedly lessens the succeeding inflammation, and soon gives ease. I his I have often seen, and probably it can only be accounted for on the principle of producing the act of contraction in the vessels. I have taken a bucket of cold spring water with me, when I have made an attempt on a wasp’s nest, and put my hand into it after having been stung; and while my hand was in the water I felt no pain, but when I took it out the pain was greater than when I put it in. This is not the case with other applications, for their specific virtues are not coun- teracted by any natural circumstance attending the body, and then they can be applied with a continuance to any part where the skin is thin. The blisters commonly break, and so much the better, as the appli- cation can come in contact with the inflamed surface; but as on the hand, foot, fingers, and toes, especially in working people and those who walk much, the blisters seldom break of themselves, they should be pricked with a needle to take off the tension1*. [the intractable suppurative disposition which sometimes ensues ori these injuries, added to the peculiar tendency which is exhibited by the cicatrices of burns to contract and degenerate into a semicartilaginous structure, would seem to indicate a specific mode of irritation. In many of these cases granulations appear to be produced after cicatrization, so as to give rise to a luberculated appearance of the surface of the cicatrix, which raises it above the surrounding parts.] [The advantage arising from the direct application of remedies can never compen- sate for the irritation which inevitably arises from exposure of the sensitive cutis to the atmosphere. The simple evacuation of the bull®, by gently puncturing them, relieves the tension, which is all that is required to be done.]