GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. S6 The vast number of cells into which the lungs are divided, the whole arterial and venal system ramifying on the surface of those cells, and of course the whole of the blood passing through them in every circulation, together with the loss of life upon the missing three or four breathings in the most perfect animals, show the great nicety that is required in preserving the due properties of the blood for the purposes of animal j life : the time that we can live without air, or breathing, is shorter than j that in which we die from a defect in any other natural operation; ] breathing, therefore, seems to render life to the blood, and the blood j continues it in every part of the body. This nicety is not nearly so j great in many of the more imperfect animals. The amphibia have not this division of lungs, nor does the whole of the blood pass through the lungs in them, and they can live a consider- .t able time without breathing. This, at present, I only mention as a fact, j not meaning to give my opinion of the mode of preserving life, either in j the blood or body, by the application of air to it; though I will say ; that mere life in both is supported by the air, and probably few of the other properties connected with the blood depend so much upon air as ’ its life. But we may observe, that it was not necessary for the blood to undergo this change to render it fit for every purpose in the animal ’ ceconomy, for we find that venal blood answers some purposes : thus, ] the blood from the intestines, spleen, etc., going to the liver, as we sup- ; pose for the secretion of the bile, shows that venal blood will do for some secretions, though probably not absolutely necessary3 * * * * * * * 11. This ap- j plication of venal blood is a saving of blood ; and it is not necessary for the formation of bile that the venous blood should proceed from the j parts above mentioned, for in birds, amphibia, etc., other veins, besides ■ those, enter the liver. I have shown that several substances mixed with dark-coloured blood ] have the property of rendering it of a florid red; and it must have ap- j peared that by circulating through its body its dark colour is restored, j As it is capable of being rendered florid by several substances, so it may ] be rendered dark by several when florid: vital air [oxygen gas] has the j power of rendering it florid; but the other vapours, or gases, which \ 3 [This question was for a long while agitated, many physiologists contending that j the blood acquired in its passage through the spleen, omentum, intestines, &c., peculiar j qualities which fitted it for the secretion of the bile. However this may be, it certainly I is not indispensable. The trunk of the vena porta: has been found in several instances I to terminate in the inferior cava, instead of branching out into the liver. Mr. Abernethy 1 found this in a child about ten months old (Phil. Trans., 1703, p. 50.), and Mr. Wilson I in a young female (Med. Gaz., viii. 443.), the gall-bladder in both cases being perfectly ■ full; and in the last case the hepatic artery increased to a great size. Saunders, Huber, J and Lawrence have referred to similar cases.]