FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 317 begin like a pimple, but spread in that way to the breadth of a sixpence, shilling, or crown-piece; such often take place on the fingers. [3.] The inflammation that produces the carbuncle is of a different nature from any of the former; it is stationary with respect to place, and is pretty much circumscribed, even forming a broad flat firm tumour; it begins in the skin almost like a pimple, and goes deeper and deeper, spreading with a broad base under the skin in the cellular membrane ; and although considerably tumefied, yet this does not arise from the ex- travasation of coagulating lymph producing adhesions which are to re- tain life, for the very cells into which it is extravasated become dead. It produces a suppuration, but not an abscess, somewhat similar to the erysipelatous when the inflammation passes into the cellular membrane, for as there are no adhesions the matter lies in the cells where it was formed, almost like water in an anasarca; but still it is not diffused through the uninflamed cellular membrane, as in the erysipelatous, for it appears to extend no further than the inflammation : one would almost imagine that there was a limitation to the extent, beyond which this species of inflammation could not go, and at these limits the adhesive inflammation took place to confine the matter within the bounds of the carbuncle. A diffused ulceration on the inside for the exit of the mat- ter takes place, making a number of openings through the skin. There are generally more carbuncles than one at the same time, a great number succeeding each other, which would almost seem to pro- duce each other in this succession ; they are commonly more on the trunk of the body than anywhere else. However, I have seen them on the head, and sometimes on the extremities, although but seldom. They are more commonly on the posterior part of the body than the anterior. This inflammation attacks more beyond the middle age than at it, and very few under it. It is most common in those that have lived well. I never .saw but one patient of this kind in an hospital. It appears to have some affinity to the boil; but the boil differs in this respect, that it has more of the true inflammation, therefore spreads less, and is more pecu- liar to the young than the old, which may be the reason why it partakes more of the true inflammation. As death is produced in a great deal of the cellular membrane, and I believe in it only, except the skin giving way, which I believe is by ul- ceration principally, it becomes a question whether this mortification arises from the nature of the inflammation, or rather from the matter being confined in the cells of the cellular membrane. I rather suspect the latter; for I find that if this matter escapes from these cells and comes into uninflamed cells, it produces mortification there. This is like the urine, for whenever the urine escapes into the cellular mem-