552 OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. passage of the ball, makes the passage itself much more determined and more easily followed; for the want of which few extraneous bodies arc ever extracted at the beginning, excepting what are superficial, small, and loose. If the extraneous bodies are broken bones, it seldom happens that they are entirely detached, and therefore must loosen before they can come away; also the bones in many cases are rendered dead, either by the blow or by being exposed, and must exfoliate, and this requires some time; for in gun-shot wounds, where bones are either bruised or broken, there is most commonly an exfoliation, because some part of the bone is deadened, similar to the slough in the soft parts. A reason given for opening gun-shot wounds is, that it takes off the tension arising from the inflammation and gives the part liberty ; this would be very good practice if tension or inflammation were not a con- sequence of wounds ; or it would be very good practice, if they could prove that the effects from dilating a part that was already wounded were very different, or quite the reverse of those of the first wound; but as this [dilatation] must always be considered as an extension of the first mischief, we must suppose it to produce an increase of the effects arising from that mischief; therefore this practice is contradictory to common sense and common observation. They are principally the com- pound wounds that require surgical operations, and certain precautions are necessary with regard to them, which I shall here lay down. As the dilatation of gun-shot wounds is a violence, it will be neces- sary to consider well what relief can be given to the parts or patient by such an operation ; and whether without it more mischief would ensue ; it should also be considered what is the proper time for dilating. But it will be almost impossible to state what wound ought, and what ought not to be opened ; this must always be determined by the surgeon, after he is acquainted with the true state of the case and the general principles ; but from what has been already said, we may in some measure judge what those wounds are that should be opened, in order to pro- duce either immediate relief, or to assist in the cure: we must have some other views than those objected to; we must see plainly something to be done for the relief of the patient by this opening, which cannot be procured without it, and if not procured, that the part cannot heal, or that the patient most probably must lose his life. The practice to be recommended here will be exactly similar to the common practice of surgery, without paying any attention to the cause as a gun-shot wound. One of the principal points of practice will be to determine at what period of time the dilatation should be made. 1. If the wound should be a slight one, and should require opening,