560 OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. the body; yet it is to be observed that wherever there is a wound, and whatever solid viscus may be penetrated, the surfaces in contact, sur- rounding every orifice, will unite by the adhesive inflammation, so as to exclude entirely the general cavity, by which means there is one con- tinued canal wherever the ball or instrument has passed ; or if any ex- traneous body should have been carried in, such as clothes, &c., they will also be included in these adhesions, and both these and the slough will be conducted to the external surface by either orifice. All Mounds that enter the belly, which have injured some viscus, are to be treated according to the nature of the wounded part, with its com- plications, which will be many, because the belly contains more parts of very dissimilar uses than any other cavity in the body, each of which will produce symptoms peculiar to itself and the nature of the wound. The wounding of the several viscera will often produce what may be called immediate and secondary symptoms, which will be peculiar to themselves, besides what are common to simple wounds, such as bleed- ing, which is immediate, and inflammation and suppuration, which are seeondarj . Sensations alone will often lead to the viscus wounded, and Ibis is frequently one of the first symptoms. I he immediate symptoms arising from wounds in the different viscera are as follows: From a wound in the liver there will be pain in the part of the sickly or depressing kind ; and it it is in the right lobe, there will be a delu- sive pain in the right shoulder, or in the left shoulder from a wound in the left lobe. A wound in the stomach will produce great sickness and vomiting of blood, and sometimes a delirium ; a case of which I once saw in a soldier in Portugal, who was stabbed into the stomach with a stiletto by a Por- tuguese. Blood in the stools will arise from a wound in the intestines, and ac- cording to the intestine wounded it will be more or less pure. If the blood is from a high part of an intestine, it will be mixed with faeces and of a dark colour; if low, as the colon, the blood will be less mixed and give the tinge of blood ; and the pain or sensation Mill be more or less acute according to the intestine M'ounded : more of the sickly pain the higher the intestine, and more of the acute the lower. There Mill be bloody urine from a wound in the kidneys or bladder; and if made by shot or ball, and a lodgement made, these bodies Mill sometimes become the cause of a stone. The sensation will be trifling. A M ound of the spleen -will produce no symptoms that I knou’ of, ex- cepting probably sickness, from its connection with the nerves belong- ing to the stomach, &c.