THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 363 •from it, since there will be less irritability. The stomach will sympa- t thize less, and the blood will be pushed further into the smaller vessels. If the inflammation is in tendinous, ligamentous, or bony parts, the ' symptoms will lie less acute, the stomach will sympathize more, the pulse will not be so full, but perhaps quicker, because there will be more irritability, and the blood will not be so much pushed into the smaller vessels, and therefore forsake the skin more. It seems to be a material circumstance whether the inflammation is i in the lower or upper extremity, that is, far from or near to the heart; for the symptoms are the more violent, the constitution is more affected, and the power of resolution seems to be less when the part inflamed is far from the source of the circulation than when near it, even when parts are similar both in texture and use. Whatever course the inflamma- tion is to run, or in whatever way it is to terminate, it is done with more ■ ease when near to the heart than when far off. All the parts that may in one sense be called vital do not produce the same effects upon the constitution; and the difference seems to arise from the difference in their connexions wdth the stomach. It is to be observed that vital parts may be divided into two, one of which is in itself immediately connected with life, as the stomach ; the other, where I life only depends upon it in its action or use. The heart, lungs, and brain are only to be considered in this last light; and therefore they have a considerable sympathizing affection with the stomach : the sym- ptoms are rather depressing, the pulse is quick and small, and the blood is not pushed into the smaller vessels. If the heart or lungs are inflamed, either immediately, or affected se- condarily as by sympathy, the disease has more violent effects upon the constitution than the same quantity of inflammation would have if it was not in a vital part, or was in one with which the vital parts did not sympathize; for if it is such as the vital parts sympathize with readily, then the sympathetic action of the vital parts will affect the constitu- tion, as in an inflammation of the testicle. In such cases the pulse is much quicker and smaller than when in a common part, as a muscle, cellular membrane, or skin ; but not so much so as in the stomach, and the blood is more sizy. When the inflamma- tion is in the heart only, its actions are extremely agitated and irregu- lar. If in the lungs, singly, the heart in such cases would appear to sympathize, and not allow of a full or free diastole. The stomach does not in common sympathize in such cases, which is the reason perhaps of the inflammation not depressing ; but it is to be observed that I make a material difference between the inflammation of the lungs, commonly called a pleurisy, and those diseases that begin slowly and spin out to