286 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. the ground, and was suspended between two posts. Round the tub, and over its bottom, which was uppermost, were placed wet straw, mats, &c. to take off any influence the sun or air might have upon its con- tents, and a small hole was bored in its bottom, to which was fixed a small long tube that came through the straw. This was intended for pouring some water, if I found the earth get dry, into the tub. Under the mouth of the tub I placed looking-glasses, in such a way that the light was thrown upon the mouth of the tub, or surface of the earth. The weather was fine, so that through the whole day there was the re- flection of the light from the looking-glasses upon the surface of the mould, which was much more powerful than daylight without the di- rect rays of the sun. This I continued till I conceived that the beans and peas had grown some length, but not finding their tops coming down through the surface of the mould, I examined the contents of the tub, and found that they had all grown upwards towards the bottom of the tub, and that in those whose eyes had been placed downwards the young shoot had turned round so as to arise up. As one experiment leads to another, I wished to see how a bean would grow if kept in a constant rotatory motion. For this purpose I put some earth in a basket, having the shape of a cylinder, and about a foot diameter, with the two ends of wood for greater strength, through the centre of which I fixed an axis or spindle ; in this earth I planted a bean, about half way between the surface and axis, with its eye to the surface. The basket was laid across the mouth of a large tub, with the ends of the spindle resting on the edges of the tub, which were fitted to one another so as to allow of easy motion. Round the basket was rolled some small cord, to the end of which was suspended a box, water tight; into this was put lead, so as almost to make it sink in water, and which was sufficient to turn the basket round in the open air. This large tub was filled with water, and the box placed upon it, and the spindle with the basket placed across the mouth of the tub ; a very small hole was bored at the lower end of the tub, which allowed the water to escape, but very slowly; as the water sunk in the tub the box descended, and as the box descended the basket was turned round. This tub took about twelve hours in emptying, and during that time the spindle with the basket only turned about one and a half. The tub was repeatedly filled, and when I conceived the bean might have grown some inches, if it had grown at all, I examined it, and found it had grown as much as if it had been planted in the common ground, but it had no particular direction but that of passing in a straight line from the bean, which was at first towards the circumference, the direction in which it was planted; but in its course it had met with a small stone, which had turned it into