OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 409 gree applicable here. This pain is increased at the time of the dilating of the arteries, which gives the sensation called throbbing, in which every one can count his own pulse, from paying attention merely to the inflamed part; and perhaps this last symptom is one of the best charac- teristics of this species of inflammation. When the inflammation is moving from the adhesive state to the suppurative, the pain is consider- ably increased, which would seem to be the extent of this operation in the part; but when suppuration has taken place the pain in some de- gree subsides; however, as ulceration begins, it in some degree keeps up the pain, and this is more or less, according to the quickness of ulcera- tion; but the sensation attending ulceration gives more the idea of soreness. The redness that took place in the adhesive stage is now increased, and is of a pale scarlet. This is the true arterial colour, and is to be accounted a constant symptom, as we find it in all internal inflam- mations when at any time exposed, as well as in those that are external. Besides, I observed in the introduction to Inflammation, and when treat- ing of the adhesive state, that the old vessels were dilated, and new ones were formed; these effects, therefore, are here carried still further in the surrounding parts which do not suppurate, and constitute two other causes of this redness being increased, by the vessels becoming still more numerous, and the red part of the blood being pushed more forward into many vessels, where only the serum and coagulating lymph went before. The part which was firm, hard, and swelled while in the first stages, or the adhesive state, now becomes still more swelled by the greater dilatation of the vessels, and greater quantity of extravasated coagulat- ing lymph thrown out in order to secure the adhesions. The cedema- tous swelling surrounding the adhesive gradually spreads into the neigh- bouring parts. In spontaneous suppurations, one, two, three, or more parts of the inflammation lose the power of resolution, and assume exactly the same disposition with those of an exposed surface, or a surface in contact with an extraneous body. If it is in the cellular membrane that this disposition takes place, or in the investing membranes of circumscribed cavities, their vessels now begin to alter their disposition and mode of action, and continue changing till they gradually form themselves to that state which fits them to form pus; so that the effect or discharge is gradually changing from coagulating lymph to pus; hence we com- monly find in abscesses both coagulating lymph and pus, and the earlier they are opened the greater is the proportion of the former. This gave rise to the common idea and expression, “ That the matter is not con-