42 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. blood of all animals; but there is more of it, I think, in those animals which have red blood : perhaps it may bear some proportion really and bond fide a compound body, and no mere mixture of elements (id.) ; thirdly, that the existence and integrity of this compound depends on, or is preserved by, the living vessels or other containing parts (note, p. 29.); and fourthly, that the natural or inherent condition of fibrin is that of a solid (and as yet it has never been known to exist as an uncombined fluid); admit, I say, these data and the difficulty of accounting for the coagulation of the blood at once disappears, for the cause being removed which kept the elements of the liquor sanguinis in a state of combination, the effect also ceases; in other words, the conditions ceasing under which this compound can alone exist, the principles of which it is constituted necessarily revert to those states which are most natural to them, which state, as regards the fibrin, is that of a solid. This opinion was first maintained by Schultz (Joum. des Prog, det Sc. Med., vi. 85.), and has since found an able supporter in Dr. Babington, who has given additional rea- sons for believing in its truth. It is not, as might at first appear, opposed to Mr. Hun- ter's peculiar doctrines concerning the vitality of the blood, but presupposes and con- firms them; for without admitting the vitality of the blood, it would be impossible to explain many circumstances connected with coagulation, and particularly why the blood does notimmediately solidify on extravasation whenever it is removed from the influence of those causes which kept it fluid. But this does not happen, and therefore it is plain that coagulation, instead of being an act of life (as Hunter supposed), is in fact an act which can only take place on the cessation of life, or, in the language of our author, an act of death. A residuum of vitality certainly adheres to the blood for some con- siderable time after it is extravasated from the body, and it is not until this is partially or wholly dissipated that coagulation takes place; hence, as I have observed before, the disposition to coagulation is always inversely as the powers of the animal, and is promoted by all those circumstances which are calculated to exhaust or carry off the living principle. But this explanation does not account for every circumstance, nor remove the specific objections which the author himself has urged against all such hypotheses. It does not, for example, account for the coagulation of the blood in the vessels of mortifying limbs, or for the incoagulability of this fluid in cases of sudden death. With regard to the first of these objections, I think we may be allowed to suppose that the effects of sympathy extend to a considerable distance beyond the mortified parts, so that these parts, and particularly the great vascular trunks, are weakened and deprived of those full powers of life which are necessary to preserve the blood in a fluid state. Many analogous cases might be adduced to show that any one part of a system of organs being injured, the effect is participated in by the whole; and I think we must refer to this principle, viz. to the sympathy which exists between the heart and its various prolongations, the great disposition which is manifested by the blood to coagulate during the existence of syncope. With respect to the second objection which has been mentioned, I confess my inability to propose any hypothesis capable of explaining the variety of circum- stances under which the blood remains fluid after death. That it depends, ns Hunter supposed, on the sudden and entire abstraction of life, or as Mayo has imagined, on a greater residual vitality in the solids of the body, are explanations diametrically opposed; and totally irreconcileable, as it appears tome, with the diversity of circumstances under which this phenomenon is exhibited. The blood has been found uncoagulated in every variety of common and epidemic fever, and in almost every variety of local phlegmasia,