OF THE VASCULAR. SYSTEM. 1C1 middle-sized arteries, where the two substances are more equally di- vided, and where the size admits of a visible distinction of parts. The best method to see this is to cut the vessels either across or longitudi- nally, and to look upon the edges that have been cuta. If the aorta be treated in this way, we shall find that though it ap- pears to be composed of one substance, yet towards the inner surface it is darker in colour, and of a structure which differs, although but in a small degree, from that of the outer surface. If we proceed by this mode of investigation, following the course of the circulation, we shall find that the internal and external parts become evidently more distin- guishable from each other : the internal part, which is darker, but with a degree of transparency, begins almost insensibly in the larger vessels, and increases proportionably in thickness as the arteries divide, and of course become smaller, while the external, being of a white colour, is gradually diminishing, but in a greater degree, according to the dimi- nution of size in the artery, and of the increased thickness of the other coat, so that the two do not bear the same proportion to each other in "the small arteries as in the larger. The disproportion, however, between them appears greater than it really is, some deception arising from the greater muscular power possessed by the smaller arteries, in conse- quence of which the inner coat will be more contracted, and therefore seem thicker. This circumstance alone makes the difference of thick- ness between the whole coats of a large artery and those of a small one 1 [The reader is probably aware that the nature of the proper arterial tissue has formed one of the most contested points in all physiology. The fibrous coat of arteries, accord- ing to Meckel, is easily separable into different transverse slightly oblique layers, which resemble one another precisely in structure, but differ from true muscular fibre in pos- sessing greater elasticity and hardness, and from being closer, firmer, more compact, and more brittle than muscles. They are also drier and flatter than the true muscular fibre, and contain no cellular tissue in their interstices. Hence some anatomists have been led to class this as a particular tissue (tissue jaune ou elastigue) which enters into the composition of the air-passages, excretory ducts, intervertebral substances, coverings of the corpora cavernosa, &c., although it must be quite clear, from the preceding observations of the author, that it possesses a truly contractile as well as an elastic power. The decision of this question will probably depend on the idea which we affix to the term muscle ; for if we limit the definition of this structure to such sub- stances as possess a fibrous appearance, a peculiar chemical composition, and a power of alternate contraction and relaxation, I know not how we shall substantiate the affirm- ative of the question. The arteries, it is true, are fibrous, like many other dissimilar structures, but the appearance of these fibres is wholly different from that of muscles; upon chemical analysis they arc not found to contain fibrin, nnd when subjected to stimuli of different kinds they behave in a manner totally different from that of muscles, their contraction being continuous and permanent, and resembling much more that of the skin and excretory ducts than that of true muscular structure.] VOL. III. M