6!0 ON THE CURE OF addition to those already stated, in favour of this operation. I have re- THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. the ligature and cork to stop the circulation, and consequently the pul- sation in the tumour in the ham ; the other portion of tape was lcftlojse. The intention of securing the artery in this way was to compress the sides of the vessel together, and produce an union without ulceration. The patient went on very well, and the ninth day the tapes were removed, and everything seemed to be going on very favourablv, when the patient was attacked by a fever (which was supposed to be caught from another patient in the same ward), of which he died. Lpon examining the state of the limb after death, it was found that ulceration had taken place through the whole extent of the artery in- cluded in the tape, and sinuses were formed both upwards and down- wards, in the course of the thigh, to some distance. I cannot conclude this paper without observing that it is seldom in giv ing an account of a new’ operation we are able to collect materials sufficient to render it so satisfactory as the present, having in our pos- session not only the successful and unsuccessful cases, but also an ac- count of the appearances after death, under both circumstances, so that the causes of failure are rendered evident in those instances in which it did not succeed, and the means that are likely to insure future success are clearly pointed out. The operation is in itself simple; it requires but a short time in the performance, and produces little, if any, affection of the constitution; but its advantages are more clearly seen by contrasting it with the com- mon mode of operating for the popliteal aneurism. This is by exposing the sac in the ham through its whole extent, laying it open, scooping out the blood, searching for the two orifices leading into it, and taking up the artery with a ligature both above and below the sac. When this operation is over there remains a large deep-seated sore, composed of parts not perfectly in a natural state, and in a most disadvantageous situation, which sore is to suppurate, granulate, and heal, a process that is not soon performed, and w’hich must leave a stiff knee for some time afterwards. Yet this is considering the operation in the most favour- able view, since there is always a risk, from the artery being diseased so close to the sac, of the patient dying from a secondary bleeding; and when that does not happen there is still some danger of not being able to support the constitution during the healing of so large a sore, under circumstances so very unfavourable. It is in comparison with this operation, the only one before in use, that the present improvement is to be considered, and it is in this view that I have thought it deserving the attention of the Society. I cannot close this account without inserting the following case, in