THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 469 especially if there is matter in it. and in time come in contact with the skin and adhere to it, while it shall have made no closer connexion with the skin of the mouth. If it should suppurate, and more especially if it be of a scrofulous kind, which is slow in its progress, it will break externally; we even see abscesses in the gums opening externally, where the matter has been obliged to go a considerable way to get to the skin. The same guard is set over the cavity of the nose : if an abscess forms in the antrum, frontal sinus, or saccus lachrymalis, all of which are nearer to the cavity of the nose than the external surface of the body, ulceration does not follow this shortest way, which would be directly into the nose, but leads the matter to the nearest external surface. I have seen an abscess in the frontal sinus first attended with great pain in the part, then with inflammation on the whole forehead, at last matter has been felt under the skin, and on being opened it has led into one or both sinuses, and almost the whole bone has exfoliated. For such an abscess the nearest passage would have been directly into the nose. Abscess m the lachrymal sac, forming what is called the fistula lachrymalis, arises also from the same cause. A curious circumstance takes place here ; but whether peculiar to this part or not, I do not yet know : besides the disposition for ulceration externally at the inner cor- ner of the eye, there is a defence set up upon the inside, so that the membrane of the nose thickens very considerably. How far a thicken- ing takes place on the inside of the nose, opposite to the antrum, in abscesses of that cavity, or how far it is a universal principle in other passages, I have not been able to learn, but I am inclined to believe it is not universal, from this principle we can see why openings made into these passages to make the matter come that way are more unsuc- cessful than reasoning (without the knowledge of this principle) would lead us to believe; the opening, therefore, should not be made on the inside, (even where we can do it,) excepting the matter is very near, or else the opening should be made very large; and probably in such cases it may be necessary to take out a piece, so as to prevent the uniting process, which is here very strong. Illustrations will be given in other passages, when treating of ulcera- tion in general tending to the external surface. §• 3. Of Interstitial Absorption. Interstitial absorption, I observed, was of two kinds with respect to effect, or rather had two stages. The firstwas where it took place only in a part, as in the wasting of a limb in consequence of its being ren-