* THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 359 able and not in harmony to one car, which is nice and accustomed to tthe harmony of sounds, will not be so to another. The late Dr. Hunter v was a striking instance of this, for though he was extremely accurate in most things, he could never feel that nice distinction in the pulse that many others did, and was ready to suspect more nicety of discrimination than can really be found. Frequency of pulsation in a given time is measurable by instruments ; smartness or quickness in the stroke, with I a pause, is measurable by the touch ; but the nicer peculiarities in the .pulse are only sensations in the mind. I think I have been certain of the pulse having a disagreeable jar in it when others did not perceive it, when they were only sensible of its frequency and strength; and it is perhaps this jar that is the specific distinction between constitutional disease, or irritation and health ; frequency of pulsation may often arise Sfrom stimulus, but the stroke will then be soft; yet softness is not to be depended on as a mark of health; it is often a sign of dissolution ; but : then there must be other attending symptoms. In the consideration of the peculiarities of the pulse it is always ne- Scessary to observe, that there are two powers acting to produce them, : the heart and the arteries; that one part of the pulse belongs to the heart alone, another to the arteries alone, and the third is a compound of both ; but the actions of the heart and arteries do not always corre- spond ; the heart may be in a state of irritation, and act quickly in its -systole, while the arteries may be acting slowly; for the heart is to be considered as a local part, while the vessels must be considered as uni- versal, or even constitutional. The stroke (which is the pulse), with the number of them that are made in a given time, whence the pulse is com- monly called quick or slow, their regularity and irregularity as to time, and the quickness of the stroke itself, belong to the heart. The quick- ness of the heart’s action often takes place, although the pulsations are not frequent, which gives a kind of rest or halt to the artery or pulse, especially if the pulse be not frequent. The hardness, the vibratory thrill, the slowmess of the systole, writh the fulness and smallness of the pulse, belong to the arteries. As the pulse arises from the actions of the solids or machine, its state will be of course according to the nature of the machine at the time, and therefore is capable of being in one of these states,—natural or diseased. In most diseases of the constitution, whether originating from it, or ari- sing in consequence of diseases of parts, where the constitution becomes affected by sympathy, the pulse is altered from a natural to a diseased state, the degree of which will be regulated by those affections. This alteration is commonly so constant, and so regularly of the nature of the disease, that it is one of the first modes of intelligence we have re-