THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 391 It has prevented their acting in many cases where they might have done it with safety and effect. A stronger instance cannot be given than in that species of the venereal disease called a gonorrhoea, which they did not venture to cure by local applications, for fear of driving it into the constitution, and producing a pox ; but they did not consider that a gonorrhoea did not arise from the constitution, but may be said to arise from accident, or at least is entirely local, and therefore no repulsion could take place. The idea of repelling was first introduced when local diseases were supposed to arise from a deposit or derivation of humours to a part, and is still retained by those who cannot or will not allow themselves to think better; yet still the term might be applied to dis- eased action ; for the removal of many diseased actions from a part which fall on some other- part is certainly the repelling of that diseased action; but since it is not subdued, but only driven from the part, as is often the case with the gout, no cure is performed by this means. Both or either of the two local methods of removing disease, just now mentioned, viz. whether by simply curing the disease, or by destroying the diseased action, in consequence of exciting an action of another kind, may produce the effect called repulsion; but the former, I believe, can only take place in inflammations arising from the constitution, and which being prevented from settling in this part, return upon the constitution again, and often fall upon some other part, viz. one next in order of susceptibility for such inflammation, as is often the case in the gout, and in many other diseases besides inflammation, as in many nervous complaints. St. Vitus’s dance is a remarkable instance of it; but in this case it is not to be considered as a cure of the disease, but only as a suspension of its action in this part. I could conceive it possible that the second mode of local cure, which is by producing an irritation of another kind, might not repel, although it cured the first or local complaint, because there is in such modes of cure still a larger quantity of inflammation in the part than was pro- duced by the disease (although of another kind) ; but as the idea of re- pelling is to have a disease somewhere, although not in the same place, keeping it in the present situation may be as proper, if not more so, than in any other it might go to. But if, on the other hand, the con- stitution requires to have a local complaint arising from itself, which, as it were, is drawing off or relieving this constitutional disposition, then curing the one already formed, by producing another in the same part, can be of no service; for if the artificial disease is not of the same nature with the constitutional one (which it cannot be if it destroys it), then it cannot act as a substitute for it. We may observe, that by producing an irritation of another kind in the gout, we may destroy the