138 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. most of the neutral salts and vegetable extracts also retard, or entirely prevent, coagu- lation ; although this effect is not permanent, for coagulation may subsequently be induced, by dilution with water, in the great majority of instances. The extracts of sarsaparilla, bark, and gentian, render the blood permanently fluid, although little or no effect is produced by arsenic, tobacco, extract of belladonna, or hydrocyanic acid. A long-continued temperature of 32°, a heat varying from 140° to 150°, the citric and tartaric acids, and a great variety of physiological causes, all produce the same effect, viz. that of gelatinizing the blood. Now it is impossible, in the present state of science, to refer these incongruous effects to any general principle, because we are entirely igno- rant of the mode by which the generality of these agents operate. It is possible that bulky powders and extracts may prevent coagulation, in consequence of the interposi- tion of their particles between the coagulating particles of fibrin; but then these are only a few instances out of a great number; besides that, on this supposition, the retarding effect ought always to be in proportion to the bulk of the substance employed, which is far from being the case. Dilution with water, as I have before observed, seems to operate in this way. The explanation of the incoagulability of the blood, when the neutral salts are added, upon the principle of the expansion or contraction of the globular particles, appears to me totally inadequate to explain the phenomenon, even though we should admit the fact that the globules of the blood do actually contract and expand in the manner supposed; for if the opinion formerly given {note, p. 20.) be correct, that the fibrin of the blood is quite independent of the red globules, it will be a matter of perfect indifference of course in what manner the globules may be affected. It is re- markable that blood kept fluid by means of salt retains its florid colour for years, and also its property of coagulating when diluted with water. Dr. Davy has made the cu- rious remark, that when coagulation is prevented by a foreign admixture, the blood does not putrefy, although this effect is produced as usual by dilution with water. It is also deserving of remark, that most substances which, when added in quantity, retard or prevent coagulation, accelerate this process when added only in small propor- tions; thus, electricity, hard running, and even the neutral salts, which are so powerful for keeping the blood fluid, manifestly hasten its concretion, if not carried to excess, agreeably to a general physiological law, that stimuli universally become sedatives when carried to their utmost point. BIBLIOGEAPH Y OF THE BLOOD. Ackerman)l, J. F. Comment, de Combustionis lent® Phaenomenis, qu®, Vitam orga- nicam constituunt. 1805. Adams, J., M.D. An Illustration of Mr. Hunter’s Doctrine of the Blood. 1814. Addon, N. P. Physiologie, 26me edit. 1829. iii. 110. Albinus, B. Dissert.de Mass® Sang. Corpusculis. 1688; et Dissert, de Pra- vitate Sang. 1689. * Alison, M. P.,M.D. Physiology, 2nd edit. 1833. p. 62 ; and Supplement. 1836. Amici, Professor. Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., xv. 120. On the Shape of the Globules. *Andral, G. Precis d’Anat. Pathol. 1829. i. 11. tr. by Drs. Townsend and West-, et Clin. Med. 2Sme edit. 1829-35. iv. 683. et passim. Sur les Lesions de Circulation. Anon. An Essay on the Transmutation of Blood. 1725. Autenricth, J. II. F. Dissert, de Sang. 1792. * Those authors which appear to possess the best claim to the student’s attention are indicated by an asterisk ; many other names, however, of scarcely inferior excellence, are passed over, in consequence of the necessity of stopping somewhere.