590 ON INTROSUSCEPTION. and its mesentery, together with the caecum and ascending colon iuto the descending part of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, the mesentery of the ileum being drawn up so obliquely across the root of the mesen- tery, as to prevent the jejunum from having its usual freedom of attach- ment. The only part of the colon which could be seen was the sigmoid flexure, in which was distinctly to be felt a hard substance, consisting of the ileum and inverted colon. These parts being removed, for the purpose of a more accurate inspection of them, the sigmoid flexure of the colon was laid open, and was discovered to contain the caecum and colon in an inverted state. The internal surface of these, when exposed, were found to have put on a dark red appearance, approaching to black; the whole appear- ing like a solid substance, rounded at the end, hanging loose into the descending colon, and about four inches long. Upon dividing the in- verted colon, the ileum and appendix cseci were seen lying close to each other, and their two openings found on the rounded end of the inverted colon, leading directly into the sigmoid flexure ; the portion of the ileum "as a little twisted, but not in the least corrugated, it was rather stretched, ayl much pressed against the appendix caeci and its own mesentery by the surrounding colon, and a convolution of the appendix near the termination was so much pressed against the ileum as to make a mark upon it, and probably had compressed its sides so as to prevent anything from passing. Ihe portion of ileum was about four inches long. 1 he in% erted colon had drawn in the mcso-colon, and a portion of the omentum that was attached to the transverse arch. The portion of the colon near the valve, which formed the extremity of the inverted part, was much thickened in its substance by the effects of inflammation, be- ing four or five times its natural thickness; it was a good deal corru- gated, or folded upon itself, the folds at this part seemed to adhere to one another, and form one mass. The inflammation and thickening only extending two inches, the gut becoming gradually thinner till it was of its natural thickness and appearance ; so that what was only four inches in length of introsusception, contained a considerably greater length of intestine. The sigmoid flexure, which was the containing intestine, had the na- tural appearance, but was dilated or relaxed ; and the other contents of the abdomen were in a natural state, nor had the child any other appa- rent disease. A representation of the parts may be seen in PI. XXIYr. From the account I have given of introsusception, it does not seem probable that it should be of the retrograde kind, unless from an inver- sion of the peristaltic motion, which could only continue for a short time,