184 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. state, as was observed in the lobster: the same thing happens, in some degree, in the turtle, snake, foetus, etc. In the double heart with two auricles it acts like an union of the heart of the snail with that of the fish, one heart receiving the blood purified from the lungs, and sending it over the body, as in the snail; and the other receiving the blood from the body, and sending it into the lungs to be purified, as in the fish. From the above account we must see that the immediate use arising trom the heart in one class of animals will not agree with its immediate use in another; but still, in all it is the engine employed to throw the blood to those parts into which the arteries conduct itu. It is impossible to say what the quantity of blood is that is thrown out of the heart at each contraction. The size of a relaxed heart in the dead body of any animal gives us the size of the cavity, or what it is ca- pable of holding; but muscles seldom or ever are obliged to relax them- selves to their full extent in common actions, although they often are when extensive effects are to be produced. The heart, like every part constructed for action, has its times of action beyond, and also within, its natural limit of action; but it is its natural action which should be ascertained. If we compare the actions of the heart with those of the body, we may suppose that the common quantity of motion in the heart is about half what it can perform ; that is, it relaxes three fourths, and contracts one half; therefore a ventricle which contains four ounces, will, in common, only dilate so as to contain three, and will only contract so as to throw out two. The question is, when the heart acts with more frequency, as from a [I have already noticed a remarkable instance of the reach of Hunter’s genius in regard to the different phases which the higher orders of animals undergo in the pro- cess of their development, corresponding to the different types of inferior organization (see i. 264, note). Perhaps the most striking exemplification of this truth is to be found in the vascular system, the different conditions of which, presented by different classes of vertebrate animals, during the different periods of their development, represent each link of a continuous chain of developments, extending from the lowest animalcules up through the invertebrate genera, to fish, tadpoles, amphibia, and finally to man. As it would be impossible, however, in the brief compass of a note, to trace these va- rious and highly curious transformations through all their stages, and the means by which they are effected, I beg leave to refer the curious reader to Prof. Carus’s Comp. Anat, tr. by Mr. R. T. Gore; Prof. Grant’s Lect. on Comp. Anat. (Lancet, 1833-4. vol. ii.); Rolando, Sur la formation du Cceur et des vaisseaux arteriels, veineux et ca- pillaires (Journ. Compl. du Diet, des Sc. Med., xi. 323. xii. 34.) j Pander, Mem. sur le de- vel. du Poulet dans l’CEuf (ib. xiv. 306.) ; Ruscoui’s different works on the larva of the salamander and common frog; and also to the labours of Weber, Meckel, Martin St. Ange, and Cuvier. A brief description of these changes as they occur in man may be found in Meckel’s Manuel d’Anatomie, tr. by Jourdan and Hreschef, i. 143.]