306 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. with a local injury, but not capable of giving or reflecting back upon the part inflamed a diseased disposition or action. And this is so re- markable that such inflammations as seem to affect the constitution by sympathy only, which is commonly either from extent, quantity, or the seat of it being a part essential to or connected with parts belonging to life, go on as kindly as they do in a small inflammation, as a boil, which does not affect the constitution in the least. Indeed fever is a good symptom when equal to the injury, and of the same kind with the local affection, when that kind is good. Let us take an amputation of a leg as an example, which produces something more than a disturbed constitution, for there is a great loss of a substance to that constitution, which, abstracted from the violence, would probably produce considerable effects till the constitution became accustomed to the loss; but even with all this loss we often find that a healthy inflammation shall come upon the stump, and a kindly suppu- ration take place, while the symptomatic fever lasts. In many cases also it still keeps its ground even when affected by many specific irritations which are foreign to it; and nearly in the same manner as when affected by a common irritation, which will only rouse that constitution into action, but not alter it, having only the specific difference added, so that the parts will go readily through the adhesive or suppurative in- flammation ; the specific being only an attendant on this healthy action: this we see plainly to be the case in the healthy smallpox, and the lues i venerea in its first stages. But, on the contrary, if the constitution is such at the time as would readily fall into an unhealthy inflammation, from common irritation or accidental violence, then it will also fall into that state when irritated by a specific irritation foreign to the consti- tution, such as the smallpox, which in this case will run into the con- fluent kind®. There are many constitutions which have a tendency to specific dis- eases that, when injured by fever or any constitutional complaint, rea- dily produce the specific inflammation in such parts of the body as have : the greatest susceptibility for any specific action; or if such parts are affected by any local violence, the parts affected will not go through the healthy adhesive inflammation, nor will they enter into the healthy sup- * [Dr. Gregory has justly observed that the mildness or malignancy of smallpox does not depend so much on badness of constitution or differences in the contagion as on idiosyncrasy or peculiarity of habit; for as there are certain constitutions which suffer more than others from lead, mercury, and the venereal poison, so there arc certain * systems unusually irritable under the operation of the variolous virus. If this observa- tion is just, and there seems no reason to doubt it, it will materially affect the soundness of Mr. Hunter’s conclusions.]