67 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. rounding parts*. It would also seem to be formed with more difficulty chan either of the other two parts. When an animal has lost a consi- • Thus, on some of the first appearances of the chick we find a zone surrounding it, romposed of dots, which contain red globules, but not in vessels, and which zone be- comes vascular afterwards *. Vide Plate XVI. * [This account has been amply confirmed by Dcellinger and Wolff, who noticed the ormation of blood-globules in the chick previously to the existence of either heart or vessels. Similar phenomena have also been related by Gruithuisen and Kaltenbrun- aer, who observed sanguineous puncta to arise in inflamed and regenerating parts, which at first were placed in regular order, but afterwards united, so as to represent, nnd actually to constitute, new vessels, which in the further process of development ormed interconnexions with each other, and with those which previously existed. (Tiedemann’s Phys., trans. by Lane and Gully, p. 150.) Having already adverted to M. Raspail’s account of the origin of the red globules, 1 would here further observe that these bodies’are probably formed much earlier in the process of sanguification (note, p. 64). MM. Prevost and Dumas detected globules in the chyle of rabbits, hedgehogs, and dogs, which they conceived might form the rudi- ments of the future blood globules; for although the chyliferous globules have not all the same diameter, yet the largest among them are smaller than those of the blood, md consequently may admit of a further enlargement by the addition of their coloured envelopes. (Journ. des Prog, des Sci. Med.) Leuretand Lassaigne affirm that they have discovered fibrinous globule seven in the chyme, in the stomach, and still more numer- ously in the duodenum, which globules they say exactly resembled those of the chyle, and ran together so as to form fibrils, precisely in the same manner as the globules of the blood. (Op. ut supra.) The striking analogy which exists between the chyle and the blood unquestionably must be allowed to be in favour of this opinion. If an animal be killed three or four hours after a full meal, and the chyle be collected, it will be found to exhibit an opakc milk-white colour if the food has consisted of fat animal food, opaline if the diet has consisted of animal food without fat, and transparent if it has merely consisted of vege- tables ; after it has coagulated, the serum exhibits the same general properties as the serum of the blood, and the coagulum consists of pure fibrin, of a slightly roseate hue. Still the composition of chyle and blood is not exactly the same; for, like the globules, the albumen and fibrin of chyle differ in some unimportant respects from those of blood, and appear, in short, to be in an incipient state, requiring some further elaboration {which is probably effected in the lungs,) to render their conversion into blood com- plete. (Prout, Bridgewater Treatise, p. 520, and Ann. of Phil., xiii. 12.) The coagulum which forms from lymph collected from the thoracic duct of an animal which has fasted for several days, exhibits so deep a roseate hue as nearly to approach that of the blood; and, like it, it is converted to scarlet by oxygen, and to purple by carbonic acid gas. (Majendie, Physiologic, 4erne edit.: Brux., p. 220.) I am not aware, however, that this fact has ever been observed of chyle collected in a pure state from the lacteals. Tiedcmann and Gmelin have asserted" that pure chyle has very little disposition to coagulate, and that it contains no globular or reddish particles previously to its having passed the mesenteric glands : but as these particles instantly appear after the chyle has passed this point, and particularly after it has become mixed with the lymphatic fluid proceeding from the spleen, they conceive it not improbable that the globules are formed in one or other of these organs. (Rccherches sur la Digestion.) The opinion that the red globules are elaborated in the spleen is of very old date. It does not, however, appear to be well founded, for after the most accurate microsco- K 2