FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 315 is classed with the erysipelatous, hut how far it is the same I do not know ; it is certainly not the suppurative, and as almost every other in- flammation was formerly called erysipelatous, this has been supposed to belong to this kind of inflammation. The inflammation I am speaking of is more common to the throat than any other part, often gome; down the trachea. Whatever it is, it may be considered in some of its effects to be in direct opposition to the adhesive and the suppurative inflam- mations ; for where the adhesive most readily produces adhesions, there the erysipelatous does not, as in the common cellular membrane; and where the adhesive seldom takes place, excepting from extreme violence, there this inflammation (if erysipelatous) has a tendency to produce ad- hesions, as in canals or outlets; it also opposes, in some degree, the suppurative, in being backward in producing suppuration even in those places where suppuration most readily takes place, such as canals and outlets, for there, as above observed, it more readily throws out the coagulating lymph. Whatever the inflammation may be, it is certainly attended with nearly the same kind of constitutional affection. The fever in both appears to be the same, viz. accompanied with debility, languor, &c. The extra- vasation in consequence of the erysipelatous inflammation is not so great as in either the adhesive or the cedematous; nor is it of that kind which produces adhesions between the parts inflamed, which in this inflamma- tion would commonly be unnecessary, as it seldom produces suppu- ration, but is attended with very bad consequences when it does. It appears to support itself by continued sympathy, for it commonly begins at a point and spreads, while it shall be getting well where it first began. This cannot be merely constitutional; for if it was, the parts already in- flamed could not recover, if its increase in new parts arose from the con- stitution ; but it gives the idea that when the parts have once gone through this action that they lose the disposition and become healthy. I his property is not peculiar to this inflammation, the ringworm has this peculiarity, as also many cutaneous ulcers*. I his inflammation is more common in the summer than in the winter, more especially in hospitals; and I think takes place oftener after wounds on the head than any other. I have often seen it begin round a wound, on the scalp, extending itself over the whole head and face ; the eyelids I here appear to me two ways of accounting for this : one is, that the whole skin is very susceptible of such action, and readily goes on with it by continued sympathy, and the part having gone through the action, like the smallpox, &c., loses the disposition and the action ceases. The other is, that the inflammation is such as to contaminate " nle it spreads, but when it has once acted it is cured as above observed. If this last be a true solution, then the right practice would be to atop its progress by destrovine the parts beyond it, ^ **