GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 47 also from the mass of blood in uterine-gestation, being the fluid in which the foetus is immersed or swims* *. I have seen it separate from the remaining mass before the coagula- tion of the lymph. I observed once in the blood of a lady, that a se- paration between the two fluids almost immediately took place, the serous part swimming on the top, while the lymph remained still fluid. From this appearance I had pronounced that there would be a great deal of buff, supposing that the transparent fluid at the top was coagu- lating lymph; but I was mistaken, for when the lymph was coagulated, there was no buff, and the transparent fluid remaining at top, proved to be the serum. In this there could be no deception, as there was no buff, or size; for if there had been size at the top of the coagulum, it might have been supposed that this fluid, which appeared so soon after bleeding, had then, make no account of these alterations in the primary constituents of the blood, be- cause the salts happen to be affected at the same time, especially when we reflect on the known and paramount importance of these substances ? With all respect for the abilities of Dr. Stevens, and for the contributions which he has undoubtedly made to our knowledge of the blood, I cannot but regard his reasoning on this subject as liable to the greatest objection. Dr. Prout has indeed brought forward some happy illustrations concerning the effect of inflnitessimal quantities of foreign matter in modifying the composition of organic bodies, from which it may fairly be inferred that the salts in the blood perform an im- portant, although to us as yet unknown, office in the animal oeconomy. This distin- guished chemist has even gone yet further, and endeavoured to assign a particular use of one of the individual salts; for having remarked that chlorine or muriatic acid is sometimes evolved during the process of digestion, he thinks it probable that the muriate of soda undergoes decomposition in the stomach ; the chlorine or muriatic acid being secreted into this organ to aid in the act of digestion, while the soda is retained in the blood to confer on this fluid its alkaline properties. (Bridgewater Treatise, p. 499.) * [The average specific gravity of serum being taken, at a temperature of 60°, as 1029-5, that of hydrocephalic fluid varies from 1000-5 to 1019, a middle term being most frequent. The fluid of hydatids is about 1004, sometimes not containing a trace of albumen. Effusions into the chest 1019 to 1024, and ascitic effhsions 1014 to 102C. The ratio of serum to crassamentum is extremely variable, depending on many cir- cumstances. Whatever accelerates the coagulation diminishes the contractility of the clot; to which head belongs the shape of the receiving vessel. “ If this be shallow, the crassamentum will be abundant; if approaching the form of the cube or sphere, it will be scanty. This difference is owing to the greater or less distance of the coagulating particles from a common centre, which causes a more or less powerful adhesion and contraction of these particles.” (Babington, loc. cit.) There is also another circumstance to be considered; for in proportion as the form of the vessel departs from that of a sphere, the blood is subjected to a more extensive contact with dead matter, which ac- celerates the coagulating process. Hence the quantity of clot is inversely as the mass of the blood; because when the mass is small, the surface of contact is usually great. The actual quantity of fibrin in these cases is the same; but the quantity of serum in- volved in the interstices of the clot is greater in one case than it is in the other.]