OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 155 !i i completely obtained by elasticity, there are to be found muscles en- || i dowed with the property of both permanent and occasional contraction. The elastic power is very remarkable in such parts of an animal body jj i as require a constant effort to support them, elasticity being introduced |j t to act against the power of gravitation, as in the necks of animals whose ij! heads are held horizontally, or beyond the centre of gravity. This is i| t effected by an elastic ligament, and is strikingly illustrated in the camel, whose neck is long. Between the vertebrae of the neck and backs of Ij t fowls are placed elastic ligaments for the same purpose; the wings of birds and bats are also furnished with them, by which means they are retained close to the body when not used in flying. On the abdomen of most quadrupeds are likewise to be found elastic ligaments, especially on that of the elephant, which affords a constant support to the parts in their horizontal position ; and even the cellular membrane of the ele- phant has a degree of elasticity much above what is generally met with in cellular membranes. Hence there is less expense of muscular con- traction in such parts. The trachea and its branches are instances of these two powers, being composed of cartilages, muscles, and mem- branes ; the proportion of muscular substance, however, is small, the muscles which act principally upon this part being those of respiration; but the tendency of the action of the proper muscles of the trachea is to compress and alter the size of the trachea; this is counteracted by the elasticity of the cartilages and membranes exerting a constant and regular endeavour to keep it of one certain size. The external ears of many animals furnish us with another instance of the joint application of these two powers, for being chiefly composed of elastic cartilage, they retain a general uniformity of shape, although that is capable of being altered occasionally by the action of muscles. It is however to be observed, that in all cases where these two powers are joined, the muscular, as it can always act in opposition to the elas- tic, must be the strongest, and capable of being carried further than the other; it therefore must always be proportionably stronger than it otherwise need to have been. Parts in which these two powers are employed are capable of being in either of three states,—the natural, the stretched, and the contracted ; but in some parts the natural state may coincide either with the stretched or contracted, and consequently such parts are only capable of being in two states. The natural state is produced by the elastic power simply; the contracted is the effect of the muscular power alone; and the stretched is produced either by some foreign force, or body pro- truded, which may be effected by a muscular power.