TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 332 then remains insensible to the alteration. This is its being produced in a given time, for the alteration in the position of the parts may be pro- duced so slowly as not to keep pace with sensation, which is the case with many indolent tumours, ascites, etc.; on the other hand, this al- teration in the natural position of parts may be so quick as to exceed sensation, and therefore there is a certain medium, which produces the greatest pain. The actions I have been describing being pretty quick in their effects, we cannot fail to see why the pain from the inflammation must be con- siderable ; however, the pain is not the same in all the different stages. In the adhesive state of the inflammation it is generally but very incon- siderable, especially if it is to go no further, and is perhaps more of a heavy than an acute pain; when it happens on the skin it often begins with an itching, but as the inflammation is passing from the adhesive to the suppurative, the parts then undergo a greater change than before, and the pain grows more and more acute, till it becomes very consider- able. The nerves also acquire at that time a degree of sensibility, which renders them much more susceptible of impression than when they are in their natural state; thus, an inflamed part is not only painful in it- self, but it communicates impressions to the mind independent of pain, which do not arise from a natural sound part. This pain increases every time the arteries are dilated, whence it would appear that the arteries do not contract by their muscular power in their systole, for if they did, we might expect a considerable pain in that action, which would be at the full of the pulse. Whether this pain arises from the distension of the artery by the force of the heart, or whether it arises from the action of distension from the force of the artery itself, is not easily determined. We know that diseased muscles give much pain in their contraction, perhaps more than they do when stretched*. That the degree of inflammation which becomes the cause of adhe- sions gives but little pain, is proved from the dissections of dead bodies, for we seldom or never find a body in dissection which has not adhe- sions in some of the larger cavities; and yet it may reasonably be sup- posed that many of these persons never had any acute symptoms or * This is very evident in the bladder of urine when inflamed, for in the contraction of that viscus to expel the urine there is more pain than in the dilatation; indeed the distension is gradunl; and when the urine is wholly evacuated, the irritation produced by the contraction still continues, which produces a continuance of the straining2. * [It seems more reasonable to suppose that the pain in this instance is produced by the compression of the inflamed and highly sensible mucous membrane of the bladder against itself. The first efforts to evacuate the urine are not nearly so painful as those which follow.]