GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 15 in their investigations; but the frequent recourse which is had to the lancet in diseases has afforded the most ample opportunities of obser- vation, almost sufficient to explain every principle in the blood, without the aid of further experiment. In animals possessed of red blood, two modes of investigation may be adopted. One of these respects the blood while it is circulating, when the colour makes its motion visible, and gives an idea of the cir- culation in the smaller vessels. Accidents, operations, and anatomical knowledge of the vessels in which the blood is contained, have at the same time assisted us to form more perfect ideas of its motion in the larger vessels. The other mode, which is that of examining the blood when out of the body, enables us to observe whatever relates to its spon- taneous changes and separation, together with the apparent properties of each component part. Its chemical properties become known like- wise by this second mode, though without throwing much light on the nature of the fluid itself. The blood is called a fluid because it is always found in a fluid state in the vessels of a living animal while under the influence of the circu- lation ; yet it is not, under all circumstances, naturally so, for of one part of it, when not circulating, solidity is a necessary and essential property, fluidity being only necessary at the time of circulation for its motion, distribution, and the easy separation of its parts. Without being fluid, it could not be propelled through flexible tubes, and distributed to all parts of the body. It could not be divided into portions, as the vessels branch off; it could not pass through the smaller vessels, nor admit of the various separations of its parts, which are to produce the increase and repairs of the whole body; neither could it be adapted for furnishing the various secretions; nor could it be brought back to the heart*. The red colour of the blood is produced merely by some red matter diffused through it, but not common to all animals. The blood exhibits a greater variety of changes, and admits of more experiments to deter- mine its nature and properties, than the solids. This, in some degree, arises from its fluidity, in which form it has not yet attained its ultimate state, and is only the substance that furnishes materials out of which the solids are produced or augmented. • The distribution of water from the sea is similar to the arterial system, and the rivers returning to it have an analogy to the veins j but their effects are different, be- cause the globe works entirely upon its own materials. The waters are continually carrying away the land from one situation, and depositing it in another, taking down continents, and leaving the ocean in their place; whilst at the same time they are rais- ing continents out of the sea. But animals work upon foreign matter, introduced from time to time into the system.