FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 307 purative inflammation, but will fall into the specific inflammation pecu- liar to the habit: such is the case with an erysipelatous habit. Or if a specific inflammation has already taken place, any violence done to it, ’ when already begun, will increase that disposition and action, which we plainly see to be the case with the scrofula, because this disease can and often does arise from such a cause alone. Besides the constitution producing such effects, there are many parts of the body which have a 1 Sreater tendency to some specific disease than the constitution in gene- rral; which particular parts will fall into these specific inflammations more readily than others, either upon the constitution being affected, or a violence committed upon themselves : for instance, many parts of the body have a greater tendency to fall into the scrofula than others, and these will fall into that mode of action when injured, either by means of the constitution or from accident; except the constitutional complaint -is such as to be a specific for the scrofula, which I can easily conceive it may. in the cancer also, if the disease has previously taken place, then the tendency of an injury is to exasperate and increase it. But there are specific irritations which do not affect either the part or the constitution, as a common irritation, but affect them in a way pecu- liar to the irritation, altering at the same time both the parts affected and the constitution from a healthy state to an unhealthy one of its own aind. This seems to be the case with the plague, perhaps with the nutrid and jail distempers in a less degree ; for, whatever be the kind >f constitution which they attack, they always reduce that constitution x) their own kind: it is not a healthy operation going on and the spe- ufic superadded, as in the healthy smallpox, &c. However, even the ilague has its degrees of power over a constitution, some being much norc easily, and of course more violently, affected than others° This :hange in these cases, especially in the first, is often so great that the onstitution hardly ever recovers it, so that the patient dies; which we ;ave observed above is not the case with many other specific diseases or oisons, as the smallpox, &c., for this disease makes no change in the onstitution peculiar to itself. from what has been said it must appear that the irritations which re capable of producing those inflammations may be either simple, as mse which produce the adhesive, or producing with it other modes of ^ ion, as either suppuration or ulceration; and also either of the above »odes of action may be joined with some of the specific actions. ence.we may conclude that irritations, of whatever kind, either pro- uce an inflammation peculiar to the constitution, or the nature of the . or according to the irritating cause, as in the plague ; and where i.. according to the constitution, that many specific irritations may be x 2