GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. VOL. III. j 1 13 or till it can answer some good purpose by its coagulation, as in morti- :fication. Under any of these circumstances it becomes a solid body ; • for the moment it is at rest it begins to form itself into a solid, and changes into this or that particular kind of substance, according to the stimulus of the surrounding parts which excites this coagulum into ac- tion, and makes it form within itself, blood, vessels, nerves, etc. The coagulation is the first step towards its utility in the constitution, and this arises from its living principle; for if that principle be destroyed, •it does not coagulate at all, that is, naturally, for I do not here speak of any chemical coagulation. I shall now endeavour to prove that the coagulation of the coagulat- ing lymph bears some analogy to the actions of muscles, which we know to depend upon life, and which affords one of the strongest proofs of the existence of this principle ; and though the action of coagulation itself be not similar to the actions of muscles, yet, if we can show that they are governed by the same laws, we may reasonably conclude that the first principle is the same in both. When I was treating of the coagulation of the lymph, I took notice that cold did not cause it, and supported the opinion by several experiments; at the same time I mentioned an ex- periment of Mr. Hewson, to prove the same thing, and which he con- ceived to be conclusive, but which does not appear to me in any way to affect his hypothesis (p. 26.). This experiment I had often made, but with another view, viz. to illustrate the living principle of the blood, which to me it in some measure does, more especially when compared with similar experiments on living muscles. As the coagulation of the blood is a natural process, and as all natu- ral processes have their time of action, unless influenced by some ex- citing causes, and since cold is not a cause of the blood’s coagulation, even when removed out of the circulation, the blood may be frozen much ; more quickly than it can coagulate, by which change its coagulating power is suspended. To prove this by experiment, I took a thin leaden vessel with a flat bottom, of some width, and put it into a cold mixture below 0, and allowed as much blood to run from a vein into it as covered its bottom. The blood froze immediately; and when thawed became fluid, and coagulated, I believe, as soon as it would have done had it not been frozen. As the coagulation of the blood appears to be that process which may be compared with the action of life in the solids, we shall examine this property a little further, and see if this power of coagulation can be de- stroyed : if it can, we shall next inquire if, by the same means, life is destroyed in the solids, and if the phenomena are nearly the same in both. The prevention of coagulation may be effected by electricity, and