244 UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. tion of the brain which is called apoplexy. The same thing happens in extravasations into the pericardium, or into any of the other vital parts, where little can be done although much is wanted. ' In many other parts, where the actions of life cannot be affected, yet the extravasa- tions are often too considerable to allow the parts to go through their proper modes of restoration. The quantity of extravasated hlood being often so large as to distend the parts, and form a kind of tumour called ecchymosis, of which I shall now treat. The extravasated blood in such cases being the only visible complaint, to remove it is the cure; which may be effected by absorption, or, if necessary, by an operation. An ecchymosis we may consider as of two kinds, one in which the blood coagulates when extravasated, the other where it remains fluid; but this distinction makes little difference in the disease itself, and of course little in the mode of treatment. It should be observed, however, that the first kind for the most part terminates well, while the second sometimes inflames and suppurates. When these injuries get well by the absorption of the hlood, the cure is gradual, and often takes a considerable time; but if the tumours be- come less and do not inflame, they should be allowed to go on to per- form their own cure : and even where inflammation takes place, that should be permitted to advance to suppuration, and the tumours to threaten bursting before they arc opened by art, or, what I believe would be still better practice, they should be left to open of themselves alto- gether. In some instances, a blow, the cause of the ecchymosis, may have injured the superficial parts or skin so much as to produce inflammation; and under such circumstances I should recommend the case to he treated as an inflammation arising from any other cause, without paying attention to the blood underneath. It often happens that the blow has deadened the skin over this blood, which deadened part, as is usual in such cases, must, in a certain time afterwards, separate from the living. Where this has taken place, and the extravasated blood has coagulated, it has often been found to remain in the cavity as a mere extraneous body, without acting, and without even allowing the stimulus of an ex- posed surface or of an imperfect cavity to take place. The edges of the skin all round showing the disposition to contract over this blood, ns if it was a living part to be preserved, nothing has seemed to be want- ing to finish the cure but the blood being alive with due powers of ac- tion. , In these cases the common practice has been to scoop out the bloou j and distend the internal surface with warm dressings, to stimulate it inflammation, &c.; and, a sore being the consequence of this method,J m- ***-•.' mm - - <*-.« •. -