178 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. are large, yet as they are small where they enter the heart, there is an auricle ; and as its office is somewhat similar to a large vein, it has some of its properties, viz. being in some degree both elastic and muscular. The name sinus venosus is a very proper one ; and as a proof that it is only such in the circulation, there are no valves placed between it and the veins®. As the heart is an engine formed to keep up the motion of the blood, and as it is necessary that this motion should be determined in a par- ticular direction, it is adapted, as are also the other parts of the vascular system, to this purpose. The heart is formed into a cavity, through which the blood must pass, receiving at once a considerable quantity of this fluid, upon which it immediately acts with equal force, although not progressively, as an intestine ; and that this motion of the blood may be regulated, and a re- trograde motion prevented, we find the valves constructed. A valve, I believe, is in general understood to be a part in every ma- chine calculated to allow whatever is to pass to move in one direction only, and the valves in the vascular system are intended for this pur- pose. They are of two kinds, having trwo modes of attachment, which is suited to the action of the part to which they are attached, and making a very essential difference in their formation. They are thin * [In fish, as well as in several other animals, there are commonly placed two cre- scentic-shaped valves at the entrance into the auricle, between it and the sinus venosus, or bulbous enlargement of the vena; cava;, which fact the author must have been well acquainted with, as several preparations are set up in the Hunterian Museum illus- trative of this point. The observation, however, of the author in other respects is per- fectly correct, and might be illustrated by numerous examples from comparative ana- tomy. Thus, in most of the batrachian animals the auricles are remarkable for their large size and the weakness of their parietes, which unite to give them an appearance much more resembling a great venous sinus than a true auricle. This conformation is particularly conspicuous in the Siren lacertina, where the number of fimbriated folli- cular processes sent off from the auricle give it the appearance of the branchial divisions of the vena cava in the cephalopods. In the gallery, or physiological department of the museum (Nos. 873-974.), there are numerous examples of these superadded sinuses, together with every variety of cardiac construction. In the chameleon the auricles are provided with two very large venous receptacles, twice as large ns the auricles themselves, and extending the whole length of the chest; the object of which plainly is, to provide a receptacle for the superfluous blood when the tongue, which is a large erectile organ, and the only one assigned to this animal for the prehension of its prey, is not in action. {See Houston in Trs. of R. I. Acad., xvi. 177.) Indeed this species of construction seems to be connected with the varying conditions of the circulation in most of those animals in which it occurs, whose habits of eating, diving, breathing, or exerting themselves are generally extremely irregular.]