EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION, AND ITS 514 shall die in a few days. Or he shall go into the common diseased sym- ptoms of the second stage, viz. the nervous, with many of its effects, as the tetanus, and dissolution shall also be a consequence. Or if the local disease does not or cannot heal, and is such as to affect the constitu- tion, it then brings on the hectic, and sooner or later dissolution takes place: for the hectic is an action of disease, and of a particular kind ; but dissolution is a giving way to disease of every kind, and therefore has no determined form arising from the nature of the preceding disease. It has been supposed that this disease arises also from the absorption of matter. It appears to he in many cases an effect arising from violent and long-continued inflammations and suppurations, although not incu- rable in themselves, (therefore in those respects not similar to the hectic,) and which in many instances are known to produce the great- est changes in the constitution. Such often arise from very bad com- pound fractures,from amputations of the extremities,especially the lower, and more particularly the thigh, in which cases the sympathetic fever has run high, which would appear to be necessary or preparatory ; but in the hectic it is not necessary that the constitution should have suf- fered at all in the first stages of the disease: dissolution seems to be more connected with what is past than with the present alone, which is the reverse of the hectic. We never find this disease take place in consequence of small wounds, or such wounds as have affected the con- stitution but little in its first stages, but which may affect the consti- tution much in its second, such as small wounds producing the lock-jaw. It would appear to take place in our hospitals more generally than in private houses, and more readily in large cities than in the country. W e shall find that the hectic and dissolution are by no means the same dis- ease, but differ exceedingly in their causes and in many of their effects ; for in the case of compound fractures and amputations, we find the con- stitution often capable of going through the inflammatory and sympa- thetic fever, producing suppuration and granulation, as well as conti- nuing the production of these for some time, and yet sinking under them at last, and often immediately, without a seeming cause. This effect will more readily take place if the person was in full health before the accident or operation than if he had been somewhat accustomed to the other, or true hectic; for the symptoms of dissolution seldom or never take place, if the violence committed has been to get rid of a hectic cause. It sometimes takes place early, in consequence of local injury, and would seem to be a continuation of the sympathetic fever; as if the constitu- tion was not able to relieve itself of the general affection, or that the parts could not go into the true suppurative disposition. We see this frequently after removing a limb, especially the lower extremity, and after