494 granulations. I have seen two granulations on the head, viz. one from the dura- mater after trepanning and the other from the scalp, unite over the bare hone which was between them so strongly, in twenty-four hours, that they required some force to separate them, and when separated, they bled. I he inner surface of the cutis in an abscess or sore does not only not readily granulate, as has been mentioned, but it does not readily unite with the granulations underneath. The tinal intention of both seems to be that the mouth of a sore, which is seldom so much in a diseased state, should have a natural principle which attends disease, to put it upon a footing with the disease which is underneath®; therefore when abscesses are allowed to become as thin as possible before they are opened, this proportion between the sound skin and the disease is better preserved, and the parts are not so apt to turn fistulous. W hen the parts are unsound, and of course the granulations formed upon them unsound, we have not this disposition for union, but a smooth surface is formed, somewhat similar to many natural internal surfaces of the body, and such as have no tendency to granulate, which continues to secrete a matter expressive of the sore which it lubricates, and in some measure prevents the union of the granulations. I imagine, for instance, that the internal surface of a fistulous ulcer is in some degree similar to the inner surface of the urethra, when it is forming the dis- charge commonly called a gleet. Such sores have therefore no dispo- sition in their granulations to unite, and nothing can produce a union between them hut altering the disposition of these granulations by ex- citing a considerable inflammation, and probably ulceration, so as to form new granulations, and by these means give them a chance of fall- ing into a sound state. Granulations are not endowed with the same powers as parts origi- nally formed. In this respect they are similar to all new-formed parts, and it is from this cause that changes for the worse are so easily effected: they more readily fall into ulceration and mortification than originally- formed parts, and from their readiness to ulcerate they separate sloughs more quickly. The granulations not only show the state of the part in which they are formed, or the state in which they are themselves, but they show how far the constitution is affected by many diseases. The chief of those habits which affect the granulations in consequence of the constitution are, I believe, the indolent and irritable habits, but principally fevers; a [As the aperture of an abscess is frequently observed to extend, by a continuance of the ulcerative action, at the same time that the bottom ofthe abscess is filling up with new granulations, the final intention would rather seem to be to preserve a /ree exit for the matter; but this meaning is probably included in the language ofthe author.]