344 HIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. §.4. Of the Production of Cold in Inflammation. he production of cold is certainly an operation which the more per- feet animals are endowed with ; and this power would appear to be both constitutional and local, similar to the power of producing heat. As the word inflammation implies heat, and has been used to express that action of the vessels where heat is commonly an effect, it may seem s range that we should treat of cold in the action of inflammation. But probably we have no action in the body that is not attended with an occasional production of cold. How far this takes place in parts I do not know; but that it takes place constitutionally, from almost every affection, is evident, whether it be inflammatory feV°er or local inflam, mation. As an animal has no standard of cold but at the source, which is also the standard of heat, it is perhaps impossible to ascertain with certainty the degree of cold produced either by disease or from the sur- rounding cold ; but perhaps, by comparing the part suspected of being colder, than is natural, from disease, with a similar part under the same external influence of heat and cold, as, for instance, one limb with the other, or one hand with the other, a pretty fair inference may be made; and we often find that diseased parts shall become extremely cold, while from other circumstances than disease they should not be so. I suspect that coldness in disease arises either from weakness, or a olher niniiner dependent than all the other functions of organic life. The observation of Hunter, that the generation of heat cannot essentially “depend upon the nervous system, for it is found in animals that have no brain or nerves,” is still further corro- borated by the fact that the same phenomenon is observed in vegetables, in which there )s still less pretence or proof of a nervous system. Thus, during the germination of seeds, the temperature is elevated at least ten degrees. Hubert found that the ther- mometer was raised to 108“ Fahrenheit when surrounded by the spadices of the Arum cprdifolutm during the process of fecundation, the temperature of the atmosphere being 70°; and Sennebier, that it was raised from 70“ to 143° under the same circumstances. (Ellis on Respiration, p. 204.) The phenomena which appear most difficult to account for are the occasional exaltation of temperature in parts, beyond the standard heat of the body; especially where, as in fractures and injuries of the spine, the cause would ap- pear not only inadequate to the effect, but to have a directly contrary tendency. In inflammation, on the contrary, the reparative and nutritive functions are in an undue state of activity, and therefore it is reasonable to suppose that the peculiar changes con- sequent on the circulation of the blood are carried on with greater vigour. I he author, it may be observed, accounts for the production of animal heat by refer- ring to the vital principle, which, after all, throws no light upon the subject, nor gives any account of the immediate agency by which this is produced. That the stomach may often indirectly become the cause of the production of partial cold, is readily ex- plained, when we consider the influence which it is admitted that the nervous system exercises over the function of calorification, and the power which the stomach has of affecting the former.]