478 THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. of course; his pulse began to rise and become more full and soft; and his extremities became warmer; he was ordered bark, etc. but he lived only about sixty hours after the operation. On opening his abdomen after death we found little or no matter ly- ing loose; all had made its escape through the wound. The whole in- testines, stomach, and liver were united by a very thick covering of the coagulating lymph, which also passed into all the interstices between them, by which means they were all united into one mass: the liver also adhered to the diaphragm, but none of the viscera adhered to the inside of the belly on its fore part, for there the matter had given the stimulus for ulceration, which prevents all adhesions. The process of ulceration had gone on so far as to have destroyed the whole of the pe- ritonaeum on the fore part of the abdomen, and the transversales and recti muscles were cleanly dissected on their inside. The tendons of the la- teral muscles that pass behind the heads of the recti were in rags, partly gone, and partly in the form of a slough. From this view of the case we must see how Nature had guarded all the most essential parts. In the time of the adhesive stage she had co\ ered all the intestines with a coat of coagulating lymph, so as to guard them; and this probably upon two principles, one from their being canals, and therefore loth to admit of penetration in that way; the other from their being more internal than the parietes of the abdo- men ; one side is therefore thickened for their defence, while the other is thinned for the relief of the part. Here the cavity of the abdomen had assumed all the properties of an abscess, but it was so connected with the vital parts, which also suffered much in the inflammation, that the patient could not support the ne- cessary processes towards what would be called a radical cure in many other parts ; and indeed, considering the mischief done to the abdomen and its viscera, it is astonishing he lived so long. The most curious circumstance that happened was the appearance of pointing in several places; for why one part of the abdomen should have pointed more than another is not easily accounted for, since every part of the anterior portion was nearly equally thin, each part was equally involved in the abscess, and the ulceration had not yet begun with any of the muscles. To account for this, let us suppose that one, two, or three parts (by some accident) were more susceptible of the ulcerative stimulus than the others, and that the parts were ready to give way; but although these parts which were pointing were the places where ulceration would have gone on brisker, yet it had not proceeded further here than in any other part, it had only gone through the peritoneum and the tendons of the broad muscles, and the recti muscles were sound