OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 200 parts, only retaining a sufficient number of vessels to carry on the simple ceconomy of the part, which would now seem to be less than in an ori- ginal part. This is known by injections, when parts are in the grow- ing state, or are just growrn, and for some time after. We may observe when the smallpox is cured that the remains of the pustules are red and continue so for some time, which is owing to those parts being visibly more vascular than common; and those who have had the smallpox severely are in general afterwards more pale than others, when those parts have arrived at their permanent state. If we cut into a part that has had a wound or sore upon it which has been healed for a considerable time, we shall find that the cicatrix and the new-formed parts are not nearly so vascular as the original, which corresponds with what has been advanced, for we know that those parts are not equal in power to original parts. In short, whenever Nature has considerable operations going on, and those are rapid, then we find the vascular system in a proportionable degree enlarged. The number of vessels in a part, and also the circulation of the blood through them, appear to keep pace with its sensibility ; for first we find that most probably all parts endowed with vessels are sensible, and all sensible parts are to appearance very vascular. Where any in- creased action is going on, requiring increased sensibility, there is also an increased circulation through those vessels, as in the parts of gene- ration during the time of coition, more especially in the female; and this increase of vessels, circulation, and sensibility in a part takes place in disease ; as is well illustrated in inflammation, w'here the whole seems to be increased in the same proportion, especially the two last, viz, cir- culation and sensibility. These observations can only be made in animals which have red blood, and best in those which have the most red blood; but it is not possible to ascertain with accuracy the proportion that one blood-vessel bears to another, so as to know the exact quantity of blood each part may pos- sess, which w'ould better ascertain the action of the part; for they may be said not to be measurable with any degree of accuracy, and there- fore such calculations must be taken in the gross. Vessels have a power of increase within themselves both in diameter and length, which is according to the necessity, whether natural or diseased. The necessity appears to arise from an increase of the part to which the artery is going, the formation of a new part, or an ir- ritation. The first may be reckoned the natural increase of the body: the second, the occasional increase of parts, as of the uterus in uterine- gestation, where the vessels are increased in width in proportion to the whole solid contents, including the young; besides this, they are con-