151 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. :inding up of a clock, in others differs materially from it. For the muscle aing capable of relaxing itself, there is no resistance to overcome, ex- ■ 3pt the vis inertias and friction of the matter to be removed: whereas 1 the clock, the power that winds it up must be greater than the spring r weight, to be capable of overcoming the gravity of the weight, or the lasticity of the spring, together with the vis inertia;. The elongation of muscles is not the immediate cause of their relax- tion, but the effect of a contrary and necessary motion of the elonga- ors, by which they are recovered so as to be enabled to renew their ac- ion with effect. The elongators, or powers which enable muscles to recover them- elves, are not always muscular, for when simple elongation is required, t is effected by other means, as elasticity, which is the case in part in ,he blood-vessels; and sometimes by motion in matter foreign to the jody, yet propelled either by muscles or elasticity, as is also the case n blood-vessels. The elongators may be divided into three kinds, with :heir compounds. The first kind is muscular, and these may either act immediately, or they may act on some other substance, by which action that substance oecomes the immediate cause of the elongation. Those which act im- mediately, and become elongators to other muscles by their contraction, ire in turn elongated by the contraction of these very muscles, to which they served as elongators, the two sets thus becoming reciprocally elon- ,-gators to each other. This is the case with the greater part of the mus- cles in the body, and in some muscles, as the occipito-frontalis, two different portions are reciprocally elongators; yet these may strictly be considered as two muscles ; for although there is no interruption, in the tendon they move the same part in two opposite directions, like distinct antagonist muscles. These reciprocal elongators, by their mutual action on each other, bring out a middle state between the extremes of contraction and elon- gation, which is the state of ease or tone in both. This appears not to be so much required for the ease of the part moved, as for that of the relaxed muscle11, either extreme of motion leaving the muscle in an un- easy state. We find, therefore, that as soon as any set of muscles cease to act, the elongators, which were stretched during their action, are stimulated either by this cessation, or by the uneasy state into which the parts moved have been put, to act in order to bring these parts into L* The reading of this passage in all the editions, is “ for the ease of the relaxed nius- rles, as for that the part moved,” the reverse of which seems to have been intended by the author.]