465 THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. Another cause is a weakness, or the want of power in the part to sup- port itself under certain irritations, which may be considered as the basis of every cause of removal of whole parts, as the absorption of calluses, cicatrices, the gums in salivation; also that arising from pressure or irritating applications, under which may be included the attachment of dead parts to a living one, all of which may be accounted for upon the same principle of parts or organs not being able to support themselves under the present evil. From the above account of the final cause of the absorption of whole parts from disease, it would appear that they are capable of being ab- sorbed from five causes. First, from parts being pressed ; secondly, from parts being considerably irritated by irritating substances ; thirdly from parts being weakened ; fourthly, from parts being rendered useless • fifthly, from parts becoming dead. The two first, for instance, parts being pressed and parts being irritated, appear to me to produce the same ir- ritation ; the third, or weakness, an irritation of its own kind; and the fourth, or parts being rendered useless, and the fifth, or parts becoming dead, may be somewhat similar. It is probable that every cause above enumerated is capable of pro- ducing every mode, or rather effect, of absorption, whether interstitial or progressive; but pressure attended with suppuration always produces the progressive, whether applied externally or internally, as in the case of abscesses. §•2. Of the Disposition of living Parts to absorb and to be absorbed. The dispositions of the two parts of the living body, which absorb and are absorbed, must be of two kinds respecting the parts, one passive and the other active. The first of these is an irritated state of the part to be absorbed, which renders it unfit to remain under such circum- stances, the action excited by this irritation being incompatible with the natural actions and the existence of the P^s, whatever these are v Inch therefore become ready for removal, or yield to it with ease. The second is the absorbents being stimulated to action by such a state of parts, so that both conspire to the same end When the part to be absorbed is a dead part, as nourishment or ex- sorbents ^ ^ the whole disposition is in the ab- 2? b°d.y beC°ming USe'eSS Whc” under Slld> leases, as may be observed the diseased state th“r J°ml’ tendon» &c‘ is diseasetl- or whether it accords better with ascd sta,e> and '"ay oven tend to a natural cure? VOL. in. 2 II