TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 3G1 velocity of the blood in the arteries, under such a state of contraction of arteries, would be immense, and it might then be pushed into the simdler vessels on the surface of the body, which it certainly is not. The quick, hard, and vibratory pulse is generally an attendant upon inflammations, and whether it he attended with fulness, or the contrary, depends a good deal upon the part that is inflamed, which either in- creases or decreases the irritability, which will be described in treating of the different parts inflamed. In such a state of the constitution as produces such a pulse, the blood, which appears to be only a passive body, acted upon by the heart, so as to produce the diastole of the artery, and reacted on by the vessels, making the complete pulse, this blood, I say, is generally found in a different state from that where there are not these symptoms in the pulse ; they, as it were, constantly attend each other, or are the recipro- cal causes and effects of one another, asjwas taken notice of when I was speaking of the state of the blood in inflammation. From the account I then gave of the state of the blood in inflamma- tion, and have now given of the pulse, under the same action, it should naturally he expected that they should explain each other, which, for the most part, they certainly do; yet these appearances of the blood, and the kind of pulse, are every now and then appearing to he in op- position to each other in their common attending circumstances ; but this cannot be known till the person is bled. When the pulse is quick and hard, with a kind of vibration in the action, we generally have sizy blood. This may arise from fever, or such inflammation, etc. as affects the constitution or vital parts, these being so diseased as to keep up a constitutional irritation, which will always be an attending symptom ; but when we have neither a quick nor hard pulse, but both, perhaps, below par and rather small, with no visible fever nor inflammation, but probably some strong undetermined symptoms, such as pain, which is moveable, being sometimes in one place, sometimes in another, but at the same time seeming to impede no natural function, yet upon bleed- ing the blood shall be sizy, and the size shall have strong powers of contraction, so as to cup. A gentleman was ill with a pain, chiefly in his right side, but upon the part being rubbed, or upon applications being made to it, the pain seemed to move to some other part, from which circumstance it was supposed to have connexion with the bowels : at other times he was to- lerably well. His pulse was slow, small, and soft, and not at all, to the feel, like a pulse w’hich required bleeding. He desired to be bled, and when bled the blood was extremely sizy, the size being strong, and con- tracting so much as to draw in the edges, forming the upper surface into