65 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. In healthy blood, however, the eoagulum is commonly formed before the red part has time to subside; but we may always observe that the lower part of the mass contains more red globules than the top, and will sink more quickly in water. The red globules do not retain their glo- bular form in every fluid, but are dissolved and diffused through the whole; and this probably happens sooner in water than in any other fluid. The red globules are not soluble in the serum of the blood, yet it is not the only fluid in which they are insoluble; the urine does not dissolve them ; but urine might be supposed to be principally serum. Water itself, however, ceases to dissolve them when saturated with vmany of the neutral salts, or with some of the acids. The red globules are not soluble in water mixed with common sea-salt, sal ammoniac, Epsom-salt, nitre (potassse nitras), Glauber’s-salt (soda; sulphas), soluble tartar (potassa tartras), Lymington-tartar; nor in the fixed vegetable alkalies when saturated with fixed air. As they do not dissolve in the ■ serum or urine, it might be imagined to arise from the neutral salts > which they contain; but I should believe that neither of these fluids has a quantity sufficient for that purpose. The vitriolic acid does not dissolve the red globules when diluted so ‘low as to have less pungency of taste than common vinegar. The red globules are soluble in common vinegar, but take a longer :ime to dissolve than in water; and they also dissolve much sooner when ■the vinegar is diluted with water. In muriatic acid, diluted so as to be more pungent to the tongue, and three times stronger than the vinegar, the red globules are not dissolved, but lose their red colour : by adding more water to the red globules, they dissolve; lemon juice dissolves the red globules: all this, however, throws but little light on this part of the blood. When the globules are put into water they dissolve, which destroys their globular form; it is therefore the serum, and probably the coagu- lating lymph also, when circulating, which confines them to this form; but when the serum is diluted with water they dissolve in it; and this appears to take place at once, as quick as water unites with water". I could not observe that it was like the solution of a solid body, as a salt, :or instance: a drop of blood requires about two drops of water added to it to dissolve its globules: if urine also be diluted with water, the * [According to Dr. Young, the outer coat only, or colouring matter, is dissolved by water, in consequence of which the central (fibrinous) nucleus becomes spherical, and specifically lighter than water. Sir Everard Home states that the globule loses §rd in diameter, and frds in substance, whenever it is deprived of its colouring matter by so- lution.]