74 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. Many substances change the colour of the blood from the modena to the scarlet: respirable air has this effect, and many of the neutral salts, more especially nitre, which occasions the florid colour in meat that ha* been salted also with sea-salt. But as the air produces this effect in the living body, and as we find that without air the animal dies, great stress has been laid on this change of colour, whereas it should only be considered as a sign that the blood has been in contact with the air, but not that it must be fit for the purpose of circulation. This effect takes place readily under many circumstances : it takes place out of the circulation as readily as when in it; as readily when blood is coagu- lated as before; it takes place in blood whose coagulating principle has been destroyed, as by lightning, sudden death, &c.: it does not, there- fore, depend upon life. It is the cause only of this change in the colour by respirable air which becomes an object of consideration; for if we suppose the change of colour in the red globules to be all that respira- tion is to perform, we shall make the red globules the most essential part of the blood, whereas they are the least so. Most probably the effect of air upon the blood is greatest on the coagulating lymph; and made by the different secretory organs. (See M. Le Gallois’ Essay, entitled “ Le Sang cst-il identique dans tons les vaisseaux quit parcourt ?" Par. An. xi.) Allied also to this subject is the alteration which the blood undergoes in regard to its che- mical constitution during one and the same venesection. This point has been already ad- verted to in reference to the diminution of fibrin (see note, p. 37) ; but it remains to be noticed that the quantity of serum is proportionally increased under the same circum- stances, probably because the absorbent system is roused to increased action by what- ever depresses the vital powers (Pharmacologia, by J. A. Paris, M.D., 5th edit. p. 174.), or else because the first evacuation of blood causes the return into the larger vessels of much of the thinner parts of this fluid previously divergent in the invisible capillaries. Such at least are the opinions of Davy (De Sang., 1814) and Schroeder Van der Kolk (Com. de Sang. Coag., 1820, 1. c.), and the same views have more recently been adopted by Dr. Alison (Physiology, p. 58.). The attenuation of the blood in these cases has been assigned as the cause why it coagulates more rapidly the nearer an animal ap- proaches to the state of syncope. Prater found that blood which was diluted with equal parts of water coagulated only one minute sooner than a similar quantity not diluted, but that dilution with one half, one third, one sixth, or even one tenth of serum accele- rated concretion at least six minutes; from which facts he argued “ that dilution takes place by a provision of nature, and that such dilution is the principal if not the sole cause why the blood flowing from a dying animal coagulates so quickly.” (Op. cit. pp. 109, 111, 114.) Now it is not to be disputed that repeated venesections, at consider- able intervals of time, will have the effect of increasing the tenuity of the blood (see note, p. 44.); hut it is extremely doubtful whether this effect is uniformly or even ge- nerally produced during a single venesection, however copious. Thackrah did not find this to be the case, but, on the contrary, that the fluid parts of the blood were often di- minished in the last cup. The same thing also occurred to Prater, whose experiments, however, are open to many sources of fallacy ; and, even though we should admit the fact, yet it would not explain all the circumstances of the case, for timidity and alarm not uu» frequently occasion the first portions of blood to coagulate more rapidly than the last.