570 OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. red over with coaguluting lymph, similar to that on the lung. The lung of the right side had also become a little inflamed on its anterior edges. Wounds in the lungs generally become a cause of a quick pulse ; this likewise may arise in some degree from the lungs being so immediately concerned in the circulation, that anything that gives a check to the blood s free motion through them may affect the heart. Cut the pulse becomes hard, which arises from the nature of the inflammation that attends, and also from the wound being in a vital part. In the cases arising from balls, nothing in general is to be done but to keep quiet, and dress the wounds superficially; for any extravasated blood that might have got into the cavity of the thorax will generally make its escape by the external wound, as also any matter from suppu- ration. But in the cases of wounds made by cutting instruments, and where there is reason to suspect a considerable quantity of blood in the cavity of the thorax, then we may ask what should be done; and the natural answer is, that the operation for the empyema should be per- formed. This operation will relieve the patient and bring the disease to the [state of a] simple 'wound, and somewhat nearer to the gun-shot wound ; it should be performed as soon as possible, before the blood can have time to coagulate ; for the coagulum of the blood may be with dif- ficulty extracted. The enlargement of the wound already made will often answer; but if that is in such a situation as to forbid dilatation, then the common directions for the empyema are to be followed here. When all symptoms appear, and we have great reason to suppose a considerable extravasation of blood into the cavity of the chest, I think that we should not hesitate in performing the operation for the em- pyema. ยง.5. Of Concussions and Fractures of the Skull. These injuries, in consequence of a musket-ball, differ in nothing from the same accidents arising from any other cause, excepting the lodgement of the ball, which I imagine will require no peculiar mode of treatment. ยง. (i. Of fFounds compounded with Fractured Hones, or con- taining Extraneous Bodies. The compound gun-shot wounds, where bones are broken, or where there are extraneous bodies that continue the irritation, similar to com- pound fractures, seldom if ever heal at once, or by regular degrees, as