290 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. on the inside of intestines that had been strangulated in a hernia. I have been able also to produce it on the inside of the vagina of an ass, by injecting a strong solution of corrosive sublimate. But if of the erysipelatous kind, these surfaces will take on the adhesive action imme- diately or at first. This is evidently the case in what is called the ul- cerous sore throat; I have seen it in the trachea; I have seen it thrown up from the lungs in branches ; I have seen it in the pelves of the kidneys, ureters, bladder, and urethra. This is contrary to the mode of action of the erysipelatous inflammation in the cellular membrane and circum- scribed cavities, for there it hardly produces adhesions; and when it suppurates the suppuration takes place first. The common inflammation and the erysipelatous woidd seem to change actions similar to the adhesive and the suppurative, according as they are changed to places of different dispositions, never acting in the same way under the same apparent circumstances, and, therefore, something specifically different. As the adhesive inflammation is commonly ex- cluded from sucli surfaces in the true inflammation, so of course is the ulcerative in such cases; for it is in general only as a consequence of the adhesive and suppurative having previously taken place, with the confinement of pus, that ulceration becomes necessary ; for the ulcerative in such cases is a consequence of a stimulus arising from pressure from with in a. In inflammation we seldom pay attention to more than the continued ’ and the universal sympathy ; how far the contiguous takes place without j * [It may generally be concluded that the inflammation is of a specific or unhealthy kind, either when coagulable lymph is thrown out in the first instance on mucous canals, j as in thrush, croup, diptherite, dysentery, &c., or when, in all other structures, the puri- i form secretion is not first preceded by an exudation of lymph, as in erysipelas, diffuse | cdlular inflammation, purulent depositions after severe accidents, &c. The employ- ] merit of the term erysipelatous to designate every species of spreading inflammation and : almost every deviation from the standard of health is extremely vague, and lias been ] objected to with much propriety by the author (see infra). Whether erysipelas can j take place indifferently in any of the structures of the body has been a much-mooted j point: certainly the distinctive symptoms will generally if not always be wanting. Even in the mucous membranes, which exhibit so striking an analogy in structure and functions to the skin, there is a marked difference in the general characters of their in- j flammatory affections, not to mention that they evince no disposition whatever to travel j from one to the other, but generally keep perfectly distinct. The membranes of the \ brain indeed are often more or less affected in extensive erysipelas of the head and face, 1 but this is rather attributable in my opinion to the near proximity of the sympathising organ to the scene of inflammatory excitement than to any proper extension of the in- ’ flammation itself. The retropulsion of erysipelas, like that of every other external inflammation, is apt to induce inflammation internally, but there is not the least proof to show that this new action has the specific character oiTlie original disease.]