FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 269 strictly true; but still if no relative action, with regard to external mat- ter, was to take place, the machine would, in itself, be tolerably perfect for its own actions. As the animal, however, is employed upon com- mon matter, and therefore liable to accidents, which interrupt the na- tural operations, it becomes absolutely necessary for its continuance that it should possess, within itself, the power of repair; we find it ac- cordingly endowed with powers of repair upon many such occasions; but where parts give way from their own natural actions, this mischief cannot be repaired ; because, if they are not able to sustain their own actions, they cannot recover when diseased or injured. It is found that some structures of parts more readily give way than others, and conse- ■367); and the same may be observed of the facts referred to by the author, (pp. 11!), 243, and I. 236 el seg.) in which coagula of blood were found adherent to the insides of the coats of veins, or to the tunica vaginalis of the testicle. Nothing can be concluded from observations made at so great a distance of time from the occurrence of the injuries, which are just as likely to have occasioned an effusion of lymph as an effusion of blood* Not to mention that if blood had been efTused it would probably not have presented so defined an outline, and would have gravitated to the bottom of the sac. Modern physiologists, however, have brought forward another series of proofs de- rived from the products of organization being found in the centre of recent clots, such as pus, encephaloid matter, the matter of cancer, scrofula, melanosis, &c. A vast variety of these apparent transformations or degenerations of sanguineous coagula into fibrous, osseous, or morbid growths, independently of any connexion with the surrounding parts, have been reported by modern pathologists, (Andral, Clin. Med. iv. 683, and Precis d'Anat. et Path. i. 537. ii. 407 et passim.—Gendrin, Histoire des Inflammations.— eynattd, Jourti. Held, de Med. ii. 84.—Dr. Barrows in Med. Gazette, xvi. 678 Arch Generate de Med. Oct. 1834. p. 223, &c.) while others have not hesitated to ascribe the origin ot plilebohtes to the same source. {Lee, in Cycl. of Pract. Med., art. Veins ) I may observe, however, that these are doubtful explanations of obscure morbid pheno- mena, and cannot with any justice be applied to the establishment of a leading doctrine respecting the reparative processes of the healthy structure. We know enough of the proneness of all organic bodies to undergo various important transformations arising from slight changes of chemical constitution, independently of the actions of vitality to make us hesitate in attributing such changes in the blood to the operations of life ■ especially when there is no single proof of the presence of organization by which this can be supposed to be effected. The delineations of vascular coagula given by Sir ftverard Home, and his speculations on the subject of the formation of blood-vessels bv the evolution of carbonic acid gas, are too vague to be formally combated: the pern/ a ion of loose coagula under the vacuum of an air-pump is not surely to be wondered at and would equally take place in a deal board under similar circumstances. (See ra’ls' lfi18- PP-172- 185- and Preparations in Museum, Nos. 23 11, 23 c. 23 n and Catalogue of Physiological Series, i. 4.) ’ The use of the blood seems to be entirely provisional, and intended merely to serve l Purpose of agglutinating the edges of recent wounds, so as to defend them from the contact of the external air until the coagulable lymph is poured out. The lymph thus nivpft .i°U| lncorPorates Wlth the bloo<l> and in proportion as the former becomes orea- >e atter becomes absorbed. The reader is referred to Chapter III on Adh*l- ^animation for a more particular account of this process.] P