GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 89 tion was performed, in which the artery was tied up above the dilata- tion, three or more inches, for security. When this was done, the tour- niquet was slackened, and a pretty considerable bleeding was observed, :-seemingly at the lower orifice, leading from the dilated part, which, at first, was supposed, from its colour, to be the venous blood that had - stagnated in the veins by means of the tourniquet; but this it could not ' be ; and it was found to flow from the lower orifice of the artery, which was immediately tied : we must suppose that the motion of the blood, in ■ making this retrograde course, uras very slow, for it had first to pass off .into small collateral branches above where it was tied, then to anasto- mose with similar small ones from the trunk below, and then to enter that trunk, all of which must very much retard its motion ; and, indeed, rthe manner of it3 oozing out of the vessels showed such a retardation. This motion of the blood, though in the arterial system, was in some . respects similar to the motion of the blood in both systems of vessels. This last circumstance plainly indicates a communication of the arte- ries above the aneurism with those below, by means of the anastamozing branches. The blood from the lower orifice flowed without any pulsation, which must have been owing to its coming into the large artery below by a vast number of smaller ones at different distances, and of course at dif- ferent times ; but probably the chief cause of this want of pulsation in ' the great artery was, that the power of the heart was lost in the two - systems of smaller arteries above and below; for the second system, or those from below, became in a considerable degree similar to veins, and the great artery in the leg below the aneurism was like a considerable vein. A young man, servant to Henry Drummond, Esq., having had a knife run into his thigh, which wounded the crural artery, a considerable tumour came on the part, consisting chiefly of blood extravasated, and ! lodged in the cellular membrane. This in some degree stopped the flowing of the blood from the cut artery, and on dilating the wound, so as to get to the artery, I observed that the extravasated blood in the cellular membrane was of the venal colour. On exposing the artery, which was first secured from bleeding by a tourniquet above, and then slightly slackening that instrument, the first blood which flowed from above was dark, and even was taken for venous blood by the operator; but he was soon convinced that it was arterial by the florid colour of that which almost immediately ensued. I observed that the colour of the blood was as dark as that of any venous blood I ever saw. I' rom these experiments and observations, we must conclude that the colour of the blood is altered, either by rest or slow motion, in living