389 TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. pear all to belong to the same principle in the animal oeconomy, for they all consist either in a chancre of the situation of a disease or its action; O —a change of the situation, as in the gout; a change of the action, as a swelling of the testicles in the stopping of a gonorrhoea. This last is not properly a change of the situation of the disease, but only of the general inflammatory action without the specific action ; these principles can only produce a change in the seat of action, not in any of the con- sequences of disease ; they have in some instances a connexion with the natural operations of the body, as it were, interfering with them; and when that is the case they in general must produce disease of some kind. Thus the stopping of the menses, which is a local natural action arising from the constitution, may be effected by local applications called repelling, by a derangement of the constitution, and by many consequences which depend on a deranged constitution simply; or it may be drawn off by a derangement of the constitution, wrhich is a kind of derivation or revulsion. We find that local applications derange also other parts, which have no visible effect upon the part of application as the above, nor any visible connexion with the parts which assume the action. Thus cold, especially if wet be applied to the feet, will bring on complaints in the stomach and bowels by sympathy; and the same mode of application of cold, if local, will produce a local complaint, as cold air blowing on a part will bring on rheumatism. These changes were all supposed formerly to be of more consequence than i apprehend they really are, for they are only the change of situ- ation of disease. They were introduced into the oeconomy of disease from the idea of humours. Repellents were such applications as drove the humours out of a part, which would fall on some other; sympathy consisted in another part taking them up ; derivation was a drawing off, or inviting the humours; revulsion was the same ; and translation was the moving of humours from one part to another. Thus we have those different terms applied to that connexion of parts, by which one part being affected, some other is affected or relieved; or, as in translation, some other part takes up the disease as it were voluntarily, as is often the case in the gout. All of these produce one of the symptoms of a disease, viz. sensation and inflammation, but I believe seldom if ever real diseased structures. This agrees with whatwras formerly observed, that local inflammations depending on the constitution seldom if ever suppurate**. [The present state of our knowledge does not enable us to give a complete account of these varieties of action, viz. repulsion, derivation, and metastasis; but it seems pro- bable that they are all ultimately to be referred to the same general principle. The