GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 105 therefore be obscure at first, and it will be the more necessary that I should be pretty full in my account of it; yet the illustration of it in my account of inflammation will perhaps do more to produce conviction : than any other attempt, although strongly supported by facts. It is to me somewhat astonishing that this idea did not early strike the medical inquirers, considering the stress which they have laid on the appear- ances of this fluid in diseases ; since it (i. e. the blood) is probably more expressive of disease than any other part of the animal oeconomy: and • yet all tins, according to them, must have arisen from, what shall I call i it ? a dead animal fluid, on which a disease in the solids must have had : such an effect. This, I think, is giving too much to the solids, and too little to the fluids. When all the circumstances attending this fluid are fully considered, the idea that it has life within itself may not appear so difficult to comprehend; and indeed, when once conceived, I do not see how it is possible we should think it to be otherwise, when we consider that every part is formed from the blood, that we grow out of it, and if it has not life previous to this operation, it must then acquire it in the act of forming; for we all give our assent to the existence of life in the j parts when once formed. Our ideas of life have been so much connected :> with organic bodies, and principally those endowed with visible action, that it requires a new bend to the mind to make it conceive that these vita atque anima primum elucet, ultimoque deficit Sanguis denique totum corpus adeo circumfluit et penetrat, omnibus ejus partibus calorem et vitam jugiter impertit; ut anima primo et principaliter in ipso residens, illius gratia, tota in toto et tota in qualibet parte, (ut vulgo dicitur) inesse, merito censeatur Clare constat sanguinem esse par- tem genitalem, fontem vitaj, primum vivens et ultimo moriens, sedemque animae prima- riam; in quo, tanquam in fonte, calor primo et precipue abundat, vigetque; et a quo reliqum omnes totius corporis partes, calore influente foventur et vitam obtinent. Ideoque concludimus, sanguinem per se vivere et nutriri; nulloquc modo ab alia aliqua corporis parte, velpriore vel prsestantiore dependere U trumque autem, sensutn scilicet, et mo turn, i sanguine inesse, plurimis indiciis fit conspicuum Id nunc solum dicam: licet conceda- mus, sanguinem non sentire; inde tamcn non sequitur, eum non esse corporis sensitivi partem, eamque pra;cipuam... .Habet profecto in se animam, primo ac principaliter, non vegetativam modo, sed sensitivam etiam etmotivam; permeat quoquoversunj, et nbique presens est, eodemque ablato, anima quoque ipsa statim tollitur: adeo ut sanguis ab anima nihil discrepare videatur; vel saltern substantia, cujus actus sit animus estimare debeat... .Hie, ne a proposito longius aberrem, sanguinem (cum Arislotcle) accipiendum censeo, non ut simpliciter intelligitur et cruor dicitur, sed ut corporis animalis pars vi- vens est.” (Dc Generatione, Exer. li. lii.) The following extracts from Aristotle’s first and third books, on the history of animals, : are probably those which are alluded to in the last paragraph:—“Sanguis nempe, ; instar laris familiaris, est anima ipsa in corpore et semper quamdiu vita servatur, sanguis unus animatur et fervet In sanguine reperitnr divinum quid, respondens | elemento stcllarum.” With more or less explicitness, the same doctrine was advanced by Willis (Dc Moiu Afuscul., p. 71.), Hoffman (Opera, i. 33.), Huxham (Essay on Fever), I and several other authors.