OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 549 immediately, yet they did not see that it therefore was not necessary to take the previous or leading steps towards it. The circumstance I have mentioned of gun-shot wounds being con- tused obliges most of them to suppurate, because in such cases there is more or less of a slough to be thrown off, especially at the orifice made by the entrance of the ball: there is therefore a freer passage for the matter, or any other extraneous substance, than the same-sized wound would have if made by a clean cutting instrument, even if not allowed to heal by the first intention. From all which, if there is no peculiarity in a gun-shot wound, I think this of dilating them, as a general practice, should be rejected at once • even if it were only for this reason, that few gun-shot wounds are alike! and therefore the same practice cannot apply to all. i’his treatment of gun-shot wounds is diametrically opposite to a prin- ciple which is generally adopted in other cases, although not understood as a general rule, which is, that very few wounds of any kind require surgical treatment at their commencement, excepting with an opposite view from the above, viz. to heal them by the first intention. It is con- trary to all the rules of surgery founded on our knowledge of the animal ceconomy to enlarge wounds simply as wounds. No wound, let it be ever so small, should be made larger, excepting when preparatory to something else, which will imply a complicated wound, and which is to be treated accordingly; it should not be opened because it is a wound, but because there is something necessary to be done which cannot be executed unless the wound is enlarged. This is common surgery, and ought also to be military surgery respecting gun-shot wounds. As a proof of the inutility of opening gun-shot wounds as a general practice, I shall mention the cases of four Frenchmen and a British soldier wounded on the day of the landing of our army on the island of Belleisle; and as this neglect rather arose from accident than design there is no merit claimed from the mode of treatment. A. B. was wounded in the thigh by two balls: one went quite through the other lodged somewhere in the thigh, and was not found while he was under our care. B. C. was shot through the chest: he spit blood for some little time C. D was shot through the joint of the knee : the ball entered at the outer edge of the patella, crossed the joint under that bone, and came out through the inner condyle of the os femoris. D. E. was shot in the arm: the ball entered at the inside of the in- sertion of the deltoid muscle, passed towards the head of the os humeris then between the scapula and ribs, and lodged between the basis of the scapula and spinal processes, and was afterwards extracted. The man’s