FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 290 extraneous bodies, will make their way from some deeper-seated part to the skin, hut no inflammation shall take place till they arrive near the skin. But this circumstance will he more fully described when I treat on suppuration. It does not seem necessary that both surfaces which are to be united should be in a state of inflammation for the purpose of effecting a union : ■ it appears only necessary that one should be in such a state, which is ! to furnish the materials, viz. to throw out the coagulating lymph, and the opposite uninflamed surface accepts simply of the union. Nor is it 1 even necessary that either surface should be in a state of inflammation to admit of union ; for I just observed that extravasated blood produces a union [union by the first intention] without inflammation, and we ' often find adhesions of parts which can hardly be called inflamed. Thus a truss applied to a rupture will produce adhesions, as has been observed, although it may sit very easily. In describing inflammation it will be found that the principal theory of inflammation will be introduced in the adhesive stages; for in the first- - stated parts it appears only preparatory to the suppurative either in pre- venting or promoting it. When inflammation takes place in the first order of parts it is com- : monly the adhesive ; but it will be according to circumstances whether • the suppurative or the ulcerative follows first. That either the one or the other should follow seems to arise in many cases from an increase of the inflammation; but it sometimes happens that the suppurative - takes place almost immediately, and probably from two causes : the first is the intensity of the inflammation, its exceeding the adhesive almost immediately ; the second, an inflammation of a different kind, where the adhesive makes no part of the inflammation, and suppuration takes place in the first instance. I suspect that the erysipelatous inflammation has very little of the adhesive in its nature, and therefore probably these in- flammations are in some degree of this nature, and go into suppuration without adhesions. In some cases ulcerations must take place prior to suppuration, as when an inflammation happens on a surface, viz. the skin, as, for instance, in a chancre, and with such violence as is neces- sary for suppuration to take place, then ulceration must begin first, so as to expose internal surfaces for suppuration; but in the parts of the -second order, viz. internal canals or ducts, it is the suppurative inflam- mation which most readily takes place first; but if carried further the adhesive follows, as will be more fully explained hereafter. When it is an inflammation of the first order of parts, the suppurative succeeds the adhesive, and the ulcerative may be said to be an action superadded to the suppurative, arising out of effects produced by the first, now be-