GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 123 bring forward what, in my opinion, should be done, than to omit the ^subject altogether*. • Many of these experiments were repeated, by my desire, by Dr. Physic, now of Philadelphia, when he acted as house-surgeon at St. George’s Hospital, whose accuracy 1 I could depend upon. >— of action in common with all the other matter composing the whole body,” it must be t evident that the author did not mean to identify the living principle with a tangible i material substance ; I presume his meaning to be simply that something corresponding ; to cerebral matter is diffused through all living substances, and serves as the inter- i medium by which the sympathy of living parts is maintained. This is rendered pro- 1 bable by what has been said in the previous note ; but to suppose that he considered . this cerebral matter us identical with life, is totally irreconcileable with the supposition : formerly made, of a superadded principle. Every part, then, whether organized or unorganized, solid or fluid, “ where there exists simply the power of preservation,” is supposed to possess this simple principle of life. It is on this principle that the horticulturist perforins the operation of grafting; that the testicles of a cock may be made to grow in the belly of a hen, and a man’s tooth in the comb of a cock. It must be evident that the detached parts would, if not alive, act as foreign substances in these cases, and stimulate the living parts to throw : them off. Perhaps the most striking proof that life is not a mere emanation from the 1 brain, or any other individual centre, but inheres in every part, is to be found in the . irritability of muscles when separated from the body after death. In warm-blooded l animals this does not last many minutes, but it endures for a long time in cold-blooded animals. Thus, according to Sir B. Brodie, “ the head of a turtle was still alive, and bit at objects which were presented to it, many hours after it had been separated from the trunk”; and “ the heart of a sturgeon, inflated from the mouth and hung up to dry, pulsated regularly for ten hours, the auricles continuing their action even when so dry as actually to create a rustling noise Oxygen, hydrogen, carbonic acid, and nitrogen produced the same effect on the heart of a snapper.” (Mitchell in Amer. Journ., vii. 58.) “ The living principle [therefore] is essential to every part, and is as much the property of it as gravity is of every particle of matter composing a whole Every individual particle of the living body, then, is possessed of life, and the least imaginable part which we can separate is as much alive as the whole.” But it by no means follows, because every particular part of the body possesses a prin- ciple of life independent of the effect which arises from their union as one system, that therefore this principle is independent of matter. We can with difficulty conceive of any of the powers of matter apart from, and independent of, the substances in which they reside ; although, from the manner in which heat, electricity, magnetism, &c. are capable of being transferred from one substance to another, we conventionally agree to speak of these agencies as independent substances, or at least as superadded principles. Blumenbach supposes every living particle to be endowed with a formative principle (nisus formativus), as contradistinguished from the peculiar mode of life (vita propria) enjoyed by each organ or structure. The former is the same in all parts, and in that energy by which, under different modifications, nutrition, reparation, and generation are accomplished ; the latter is peculiar to each part, and is that by virtue of which, concurring with other parts, the complex phenomenon of systemic life is preserved (iiber den Jiilriungstrieb, &e.). This appears to me to be only another mode of expressing what was meant by Hunter, who says, that “ although life may appear very compounded