452 OF PUS. venereal. We might as well analyse the urine at different times, in order to ascertain the nature of kidneys at those times. The quality of pus is always according to the nature of the parts which produce it, and whatever specific qualities the parts may have besides, the pus has also this specific quality; hence we have venereal matter from venereal sores, smallpox matter from smallpox sores, can- cerous matter from cancerous sores, &c. It is not in the least affected by tiie constitution, except the parts which produce it arc also affected by the constitution. Pus is so far of the same specific nature with the part which produces it, that it docs not become an irritator to that part; it is perfectly in harmony with it; the part is not in the least sensible of it: therefore the pus of a suppurating surface is not an irritator to the same surface, but may be an irritator to any other not of the same kind. Hence no suppurating surface of any specific kind can be kept up by its own mat- ter ; for if this had not been the case, no sore of any specific quality, or producing matter of an irritating quality, could ever have been healed. This is similar to every other secretion of stimulating fluids, as the bile, tears, &c., for those do not stimulate their own glands or ducts, but are capable of stimulating any other part of the body. The venereal gonor- rhoea, smallpox, &c. healing or recovering of themselves, are striking instances of this. However, we find matter under certain circumstances stimulating its own sore, and also secretions stimulating their own canals, as the secretions of the intestines stimulating themselves; but how far this may not arise from one part of the intestines being so diseased as to se- crete a stimulating fluid, and coming to a sound part stimulates that only, I will not determine. This I am certain happens to the rectum and anus; for it very often happens in purging that the watery stools shall irritate those parts so much as to make them feel as if they were scalded. 1 his idea seems reasonable on another principle ; for when we consider matter in the gross, we shall find that it is often mixed with extraneous substances which make no part of it, being probably strained from the blood, and also probably undergoing a change afterwards from its not being pure pus ; nor do these always arise entirely from the nature of the sore, for they are produced by sores of very different specific qualities, it being the species of matter itself which arises from the nature of the sore; however, the kind of sore will often produce more or less of this extra- neous matter, and this additional substance may act as a stimulus on every kind of sore. What I have considered thus far is the natural process of a sound constitution and sound parts ; since a sore that is going through all the natural to 'a cure is not to be called a di>ease.