574 OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. In general, surgeons have not endeavoured to delay it till the patient has been housed, and put in the way of a cure ; and therefore it has been a common practice to amputate on the field of battle. Nothing can be more improper than this practice, for the following reasons; in such a situation it is almost impossible for a surgeon, in many instances, to make himself sufficiently master of the case, so as to perform so capi- tal an operation with propriety; and it admits of dispute, whether at any time and in any place amputation should be performed before the first inflammation is over. When a case is so violent as not to admit of a cure in any situation, it is a chance if the patient will be able to bear the consequent inflammation; therefore in such a case it might appear, at first sight, that the best practice would be to amputate at the very first; but if the patient is not able to support the inflammation arising from the accident, it is more than probable he would not be able to support the amputation and its consequences. On the other hand, if the case is such as will admit of being brought through the first in- flammation, although not curable, we should certainly allow of it; for we may be assured that the patient will be better able to bear the second. If the chances are so even where common circumstances in life favour the amputation, how must it be where they do not ? how must it be with a man whose mind is in the height of agitation, arising from fa- tigue, fear, distress, &c. ? These circumstances must add greatly to the consequent mischief, and cast the balance much in favour of for- bearance. If it should be said that, agreeable to my argument, the same circum- stances of agitation will render the accident itself more dangerous, I answer, that the amputation is a violence superadded to the injury, therefore heightens the danger; and when the injury alone proves fatal, it is by slower means. In the first case it is only inflammation; in the second it is inflammation, loss of substance, and most probably loss of more blood; as it is to be supposed that a good deal has been lost from the accident, not to mention the awkward manner in which it must be done. The only thing that can be said in favour of amputation on the field of battle is, that the patient may be moved with more ease without a limb than with a shattered one : however, experience is the best guide, and I believe it is universally allowed by those whom we are to esteem the best judges, those who have had opportunity of making comparative observations on men who have been wounded in the same battle, some where amputation had been performed immediately, and others where it had been left till all circumstances favoured the operation; it has