OF TIIE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 438 constitutions required only an immediate cause to produce the effects. It is possible, however, that no other mode of local irritation would have produced the same effect, every constitution having a part that is capa- ble of affecting it most. We find also local effects in consequence of local injuries, as the locked jaw, &c., which are remote sympathies with the part affected, which may become pretty universal, and which cannot be called immediate effects as to time, as they are often forming after the sympathetic fever has taken place, especially the locked jaw, which appears in many cases to be formed in the time of the preceding disease, and not appearing till it has subsided. There are certain intermediate steps between the inflammatory and the hectic state; but neither cure nor dissolution takes place in this period. The following case illustrates the effects of inflammation on the con- stitution : A lady, of what is called a nervous constitution, arising in some de- gree from an irritable stomach, often troubled with flatulencies and what are called nervous head-aches, with pale urine at those times, uncom- fortable feelings, and often sinkings, had a tumour removed from the breast, and likewise from near the armpit; nothing appeared uncommon for a few days, when very considerable disorders came on. She w’as attacked with a shivering or cold fit, attended with the feel of dying, and followed with cold sweat. It being supposed that she was dying, brandy was thrown in, which soon brought on a warmth, and she was relieved ; the fits came on frequently for several days, which were always relieved by brandy; and she took, in one of the most violent of them, about half a pint of brandy. While under these affections she took the bark as a strengthener; the musk, occasionally, as a sedative in pretty large quantities ; camphorated julep frequently, as an antispasmodic; and towards the last she took the valerian in large quantities; but whatever effect these might have in lessening the disease on the whole, they were certainly not equal to it without the brandy. Brandy removed those dying fits, and I thought they became less violent after taking the valerian. A question naturally occurs, Would the brandy alone, if it had been continued as a medicine, have cured her, without the aid of the other me- dicines ? The other medicines, I think, certainly could not have done it; nor do I believe that the brandy could have been continued in such quantity as to have prevented their returns; if so, then the two modes were happily united, the one gradually to prevent, the other to remove immediately the fits when they came on. This case, from the general tenour of the constitution, was running with great facility into the hectic.