326 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. §• -• Of the Colour, Swelling, and Pain of Inflamed Parts. [Colour.'] The colour of an inflamed part is visibly changed from the natural, whatever it was, to a red. This red is of various hues, accord- effects very different are observed to ensue in different cases j but in all instances where inflammation is well established the vessels are observed to be increased in number as well as size, and the course of the blood to be much retarded. The evidence upon this point is so universal, precise, and satisfactory, as to render any detail on the subject quite unnecessary and any doubt upon the question a mere excess of scepticism. (See Trea- tise on Inflammation, by Dr. C. Hastings, p. 67. Hist, des Inflam., par M. Gendrin, ii. 475, (1453 et seq.) Lectures on Inflam., by Dr. J. Thomson, p. 01. Treatise on Febrile Diseases, by Dr. IT. Philip, 3rd edit. ii. 17. Kaltenbrunner, op. cit. See ante, p. 142.) It vvould appear, however, that there is a great difference between actual inflammation and that precedent state of erubescence which is excited by slight stimulants, or which bounds the outer circumference of an inflamed part, a difference which has not always been attended to, and which in many instances has led to mistakes on this subject. At first the efleet of stimulation is generally to contract the small vessels and to accelerate the circulation ; but as soon as inflammation is unequivocally established, the circulation is invariably retarded. In severe cases indeed the retardation amounts to a complete stasis, although in the surrounding parts the blood is observed to flow with more rapi- dity than usual. Arguing from these facts, Dr. Hastings and others have drawn the conclusion that debility of the capillaries is the cause of inflammation ; or, in other words, that the in- creased action of the vessels, consequent on the application of stimuli, exhausts and im- pairs their irritability, and gives rise to their subsequent dilatation, followed on the other hand by an increased action of the larger vessels; so that, according to this gentleman, “ Inflammation consists in a weakened action of the capillaries, by which the equili- brium between the larger and smaller vessels is destroyed, and the latter become dis- tended;” while the restoration of an inflamed part is supposed to be effected by the capillary vessels being so excited, and the larger vessels so far weakened, by the preter- : natural action of the latter, that the two are again brought into correspondence and pro- portion to each other. The objections to this theory are sufficiently obvious, as it not only places the two extremities of the vascular system in opposition to each other, without any apparent cause, but makes the recovery of inflammation to depend upon the reaction of the larger vessels, which, if we may judge from the effect of remedies, or from the common sense of the case, should appear to be one of the most certain means of increasing it. Besides, why the larger vessels should be excited by the debility of the smaller, or the latter recover themselves from their debilitated state by the excitement of the larger, is 1 not pretended to be accounted for; not to mention that every physiological fact is strongly repugnant to the notion of an action, essentially reparative, like that of inflam- mation, being dependent on debility for its principle. The other most prevailing opinion on this subject is that which was adopted by our . author, viz. that inflammation is an increased action of the natural powers of a part attended with an accelerated circulation. The grounds for this opinion are as follow: 1. That when a part has more to do than simply to support its own life, an increased activity of the circulation becomes necessary ; as, for instance, in the growth of the stag's horn, the enlargement of the vessels of the uterus during gestation, and the augmented supply of blood to secreting organs during the period of their activity. 2. That the