GENERAL PRINCIPLES QF THE BLOOD. 41 hereafter that it is composed of two substances, which in many of our experiments separate. Serum, I believe, is common to the although it has been disputed by some, is now generally admitted. Horses, after a full gallop, have often been observed to have huffy blood. Dr. Todd and Dr. Stoker of Dublin conceive that the colour and figure of the buff may point out the seat of the inflammation; but this is very questionable: others, again, have affirmed that they could distinguish buffy blood from the mere colour of the stream as it flowed from the vein. I intimated in the preceding note that the origin of the buffy crust is probably to be sought for in the conversion of the albumen into fibrin. The final intention of this provision obviously is, to answer the increased demand which is made for this sub- stance in inflammation, as without some additional supply it is probable that the work of reparation could not go on in cases of extensive injury, nor the adhesions consequent on inflammation be duly formed. Thus in diffuse cellular inflammation, no adhesions are formed, and no buff is observed on the blood, but the reverse of these circumstances is observable when the seat of the inflammation is in fibrous or serous structures. The Coagulation of the Blood hits generally been referred to a physiological or a chemical cause. The first of these opinions was maintained by Hunter, the latter is most prevalent in the present day. In reference to the author’s ideas on this subject, it will be necessary to premise a distinction between his statements as to the cause of fluidity and the cause of coagulation of the blood. The former I think are borne out by every fact (note, p. 29.), the latter are open to considerable differences of opinion. Having considered the effects of exterior causes on coagulation, viz. heat, cold, motion, and rest, and “shown that none of these alone, nor all of them combined, induce the blood to coagulate,” he comes to the conclusion “ that it coagulates from an impression; —that the blood has the power of action within itself;—that to produce coagulation something more is required than merely the reverse of the causes above mentioned to keep it fluid, for the blood becomes in many cases instantaneously incapable of coagu- lation, either in or out of the vessels, even when nothing has been added or taken away. —There is therefore something more than the mere situation of the blood surrounded with dead parts that allows of coagulation ; and that must be a something in the blood itself.—Coagulation I conceive to be an operation of life.” Now as these opinions are greatly dependent on another, namely, the vitality of the blood, which opinion has not yet been considered, it might seem expedient that I should in the first place examine the truth of this datum. I believe, however, that this will not be necessary, but that it will be extremely possible to assign a reasonable cause of coagulation without adverting to this subject. In regard to the cause of the blood’s fluidity, Mr. Hunter is perfectly clear. “ It must be evident,” he says, “ that the fluid state of the blood is connected with the living vessels, which is its natural situation, and with motion; and that where there is a full power of life, the vessels are capable of keeping the blood in a fluid state,” &c. &c. Now if the fluidity of the blood depends, under ordinary circumstances, on motion and contact with the living vessels, (which opinion can scarcely I think be doubted,) then the conditions under which this fluid is placed when removed from the living vessels and set at rest are essentially changed, and the difficulty of accounting for the act of coagulation on simply chemical principles is eutirely removed. For let it be assumed, in the first place, that the whole mass of blood consists of liquor sanguinis and red globules (notes, pp. 22, 24.) ; secondly, that the liquor sanguinis is