OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 169 * traction in a longitudinal which they do in a transverse direction, the following experiments were made. Exp. 1. A longitudinal section of the aorta ascendens, measuring two inches, when stretched and allowed again to contract measured the i same length. Exp. 2. A longitudinal section of the aorta descendens at the lower part of the thorax, of a given length, after having been stretched, con- tracted exactly the same length. Exp. 3. Two inches of the same carotid artery used in the sixth ex- periment, when stretched longitudinally, recovered itself, so as not to he longer than before the experiment. Exp. 4. A portion of that humeral artery used in the eighth of the former experiments was not altered in its original length, when it re- covered itself after being stretched. These experiments appear to he decisive, and prove that the muscu- lar power acts chiefly in a transverse direction; yet it is to be observed that the elastic power of arteries is greater in a longitudinal than in a transverse direction. This appears to be intended to counteract the lengthening effect of the heart, as well as that arising from the action of the muscular coat; for the transverse contraction of that coat lengthens the artery, and therefore stretches the elastic, which again contracts upon the diastole of the artery. From the account we have given of those substances which compose an artery, we may perceive it has two powers, the one elastic and the other muscular. We see also that the larger arteries are principally endowed with the elastic power, and the smaller with the muscular; that the elastic is always gradually diminishing in the smaller, and the muscular increasing, till, at last, probably, the action of an artery is almost wholly muscular ; yet I think it is not to be supposed but that some degree of elasticity is continued to the extremity of an artery, for the middle state cannot be procured without it, and I conceive the middle state to be essential to every part of an artery. Let us now apply these two powers of action, or, to speak more properly, of re- action, with their different proportions in the different parts of the arte- rial system. From these different proportions we must suppose the elastic to be best fitted for sustaining a force applied to it, (such as the motion of the blood given by the heart,) and propelling it along the vessel; the muscular power, most probably, is required to assist in con- tinuing that motion, the force of the heart being partly spent, but cer- tainly was intended to dispose of the blood when arrived at its place of destination; for elasticity can neither assist in the one nor the other.