OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 193 artificial circulation, so as to know, that if we stopped the heart s mo- tion, we should so readily stop respiration ; and on producing the heart s motion, respiration would again take place ; hut if we could do this, I t doubt very much its being attended with equal success, because I be- i lieve that in all deaths respiration stops first; however, it must be sup- j posed, that if the heart stopped for any length of time, respiration would also stop; and if I were to take the following case as proof, it would appear that respiration would not go on without the heart s motion. A gentleman® was attacked with a pain in the situation of the pylo- i rus. The pain was such as indicated its seat to be in the nerves of ithe stomach and its connexions. It was such as he could hardly bear. The other attending symptom was a total stoppage in the actions of the 1 heart, and of course the face was pale and ghastly. Not the least signs of motion in the heart could be felt. In this state he was about three quarters of an hour. He was attended by Dr. Hunter, Sir George 1 Baker, Sir William Fordyce, and Dr. Huck Saunders. As he was per- fectly sensible at the time, and could perform every voluntary action, he observed that he was not breathing, which astonished him; and at [first conceiving he must die if he did not breathe, he performed the act of breathing voluntarily. This shows that breathing depends on the •actions of the heart; and it also shows, that under certain circumstances :the actions of both may be suspended, and yet death not be the conse- quence : as he spoke while in this fit, without attending to his breathing, iit shows that the breathing which produces sound is voluntary; and if we had only the power of involuntary breathing, then probably we could not speak, for it is probable we could not regulate the action of the .glottis and tongue (which are voluntary) to so regular an action of the lungs ; for in speaking it is the one acting so as to correspond with the other, both becoming voluntary. A gentleman had a singular asthmatic affection, and his breathing gradually stopt and again gradually reco- vered, but became violent, and this constantly and alternately held two or three minutes; and when the breathing ceased yet he spoke, although but faintly. In those animals which have two ventricles, it has been asserted by some that their actions are alternate; but observation and experiment •show us that the two auricles contract together, and that the two ven- tricles also contract together. This can be observed by simply looking on the heart in its actions, and if we in that state make a puncture into the pulmonary artery and the aorta, we shall find the jet in both at the same instant, corresponding with the contractions of the ventricles. * [The author here refers to what happened to himself. See Life, i. 44.] v VOL. III. O