383 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. Purges were generally given in cases of inflammation (probably at first from the idea of humours to be discharged), and such practice will answer best where bleeding succeeds, because it will lower the body to a more natural standard, and of course the inflamed part, as a part of that con- stitution ; but here the same cautions are necessary that were given upon bleeding, because nothing debilitates so much as purging when carried beyond a certain point. One purging stool shall even kill, where the constitution is very much reduced, as in many dropsies ; therefore, keep- ing the body simply open is all that should be done. However, although purging lowers considerably, yet its effect is not so permanent as that of bleeding. It rather lowers action, without diminishing strength; for if a person was to feel the loss of blood equal to a purge, that sensa- tion would be more lasting. Many constitutions rather acquire strength upon being gently purged, particularly such as have been living above par. But such strength as is acquired by putting the body in good order, I should suppose, is not inimical to inflammation. In irritable habits, where the inflammation becomes more diffused, greater caution is necessary with regard to purging as well as bleeding; lor I observed on the subject of bleeding, that in such constitutions no more blood should be taken than would relieve the constitution, as it were mechanically, but not such a quantity as to have a tendency to- wards lowering or weakening that constitution, for in such cases the action is greater than the strength; and whenever the disposition be- tween these two, is of this kind, we cannot expect anything salutary from this mode of treatment, and therefore should not increase it. In such cases, the very reverse of the former method should often be prac- tised : whatever has a tendency to raise the constitution above irrita- bility should be given, such as bark, &c. The object of this last prac- tice consists in bringing the strength of the constitution and part as near ul»on a par with the action as possible, by which means a kindly resolu- tion or suppuration may take place, according as the parts inflamed are capable of acting. Medicines which have the power of producing sickness lessen the ac- tion, and even the general powers of life, for a time, in consequence of every part of the body sympathizing with the stomach ; and their effects arc pretty quick. Sickness lowers the pulse, makes the smaller vessels contract, and rather disposes the skin for perspiration, but not of the active or warm kind; but I believe it should proceed no further than sickness, for the act of vomiting is rather a counteraction to that effect, and produces its ellccts from another cause, and of course of another kind, which I be-