OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 577 vessels of the part, to lessen the inflammation sooner, and of course to promote suppuration; but I must own that bleeding must be used with great caution where inflammation and fever rub very high, for to reduce the patient equal to the action at the time (which, whether an increased action or an acquired one, is only temporary) will be reducing him often too much for the constitution to support life when this action ceases ; for the very worst thing that can happen is the patient’s being reduced too low. We often afterwards find more difficulty in keeping up the strength with cordials, bark, &c. than we find in lowering it; and we may avail ourselves of observing those who have lost considerable quan- tities of blood from the accident, which is always immediate ; for we find that a second bleeding, by some other accident, although very small in quantity, often destroys our patient very quickly : but this will in a great measure depend upon the seat of the injury ; for in cases of great violence done to some parts of our body, bleeding answers better than in others, because the symptoms of dissolution, and dissolution itself, come on sooner from mischief done to some parts than when it is done to others. A man will bear bleeding better after an amputation of the arm than the leg ; better after a compound fracture of the arm than the leg : he will bear bleeding better after an injury done to the head, chest, lungs, &c. than either to the arm or lejj. We find that injuries done to inactive parts, such as joints, do worse, and are more susceptible of irritation than those in fleshy parts of the same situation. It would appear upon the whole that the decay of animal life is sooner brought on when the inflammation is in a part whose circulation is not so strong, and where the nervous influence or the force of the circula- tion is far removed. Bark is greatly recommended in gun-shot wounds, and with good reason; but it is ordered indiscriminately to all patients that have re- ceived such wounds, whatever the symptoms or constitution of the pa- tient may be. That there is no better medicine for wounds in general, not only when the inflammation is gone off, but in the time of inflam- mation, if the patient is rather low, and indeed before it comes on, ex- perience daily shows. Bark is to be looked upon as a strengthener or regulator of the system, and an antispasmodic, both of which destroy irritation. The bark and gentle bleedings, when the pulse begins to rise, are the best treatment that I know of in inflammations that arise either from accidents or operations ; one lessens the volume of the blood and the increased animal powers at the time, which makes the circula- tion more free, so that the heart labours less, and simple circulation goes on more freely; the other gives to the blood that which makes it VOL, III. 2 P