THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 4S3 2 i 2 sure upon this principle that arsenic removes tumours, which extend beyond the immediate effect of the medicine". Pressure is one of the causes of absorption in general, particularly the progressive, which in the resolution of parts is not the mode wanted; but it also assists in producing the interstitial; and if it could be made to produce the second of the interstitial, viz. absorption of the whole, as in the total decay of the thymus gland, then it would be sufficient in those cases where it could be applied. But the pressure must be applied with great care, for too much will either- thicken or ulcerate, which last may be a mode of absorption we do not want. However, these effects " ill happen according to circumstances ; for I have an idea that entirely new-formed parts, as tumours, will not be made to thicken by pressure, and therefore may be pressed with all the force the natural surrounding parts will allowr. On the other hand there are many cases wliere we would wish to prevent absorption ; but when this is the case we should be certain that the part which was to have been absorbed is such as can be rendered useful afterwards, of which I have my doubts in many cases. ยง. 9. Illustrations of Ulceration. Now that I have been endeavouring to give ideas of these effects of inflammation, viz. adhesion, suppuration, and ulceration, let me next mention some cases which frequently occur, as illustrations, which will give a perfect idea of these three inflammations; and, for the clearer understanding them, I shall illustrate them upon the inflammation, sup- puration, and ulceration of the large circumscribed cavities. For instance, an inflammation attacks the external coat of an intestine : the first stage of this inflammation produces adhesions between it and the peritoneum lining the abdominal muscles; if the inflammation does not stop at this stage, an abscess is formed in the middle of these adhesions, and the matter acts as an extraneous body; the abscess increasing in size from the accumulation of matter, a mechanical pressure is kept up, which ir- ritates, and the side next the skin is only susceptible of the irritation: this irritation not destroying the disposition to form matter, suppuration is still continued, and the ulcerative inflammation takes place. 11 suppuration began in more parts of the adhesions than one, they are commonly united into one abscess; an absorption of the parts bc- [Yet as the irritation cannot fail but extend beyond the immediate effect, it is pro- bable that these adventitious parts are thrown off" in consequence of their not being able to support life under the inflammation which succeeds.]