GRANULATIONS. 493 this plainly showed that these new-formed vessels were not able to sup- port the increased column of blood, and to act upon it, which proves that a stagnation of blood was produced sufficient to allow of the change in the colour, and most probably both in the arteries and veins. These sores never heal so fast as the others, whether it is occasioned by the position of the body or the nature of the sore itself; but most frequently so in cases of the last-mentioned kind. As the position of the body is capable of producing such an effect, it shows us the reason why sore legs are so backward in healing when the person is allowed to stand or walk. Granulations when healthy, and on an exposed or flat surface, rise nearly even with the surface of the surrounding skin, and often a little higher, and in this state they are always of a florid red : but when they exceed this, and take on a growing disposition, they are then unhealthy, become soft and spongy, and without any disposition to skin. Granu- lations are always of the same disposition with the parts upon which they are formed, and take on the same mode of action : if it is a dis- eased part, they are diseased ; and if the disease is of any specific kind, they are also of the same kind, and of course produce matter of the same kind, which I observed when on pus. Granulations have the disposition to unite with one another when sound or healthy; the great intention of which is to produce the union of parts, somewhat similar to that by the first intention, or the adhesive inflammation, although possibly not by the same means. The granula- tions having a disposition to unite with each other upon coming into contact, without the appearance of any intermediate animal substance, perhaps is in the following manner. When two sound granulations ap- proach together, the mouths of the secreting vessels of the one coming to oppose the mouths of similar vessels of the other, they are stimulated into action, which is mutual; so that a kind of sympathetic attraction takes place, and, as they are solids, the attraction of cohesion is esta- blished between them : this has been termed inosculation. The vessels thus joined are altered from secreting to circulating; or it may be in this way, viz. the circulatory vessels come to open upon the surface, and there unite with one another, and the two become one substance ; or it may be asked, do they throw out coagulating lymph when they come into contact and have a disposition to heal ? and does this become vas- cular, in which the vessels may inosculate, similar to union by the first or second intention ?a. [ rii-s seems to be the most probable as well as most prevailing opinion at the pre sent ilar.}