OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 214 estimated. This probably makes the aorta, beyond the entrance of the canalis arteriosus, twice as large as in the adult in proportion to their size; but the drawback upon this, from the body, is the placenta; for the placenta is to be considered as part of the body, disposing of the blood that afterwards circulates through the lungs : however, when it is separated, it may take away with it nearly its own proportion of blood, although I rather suspect it does not. But I do not suppose it is equal to the quantity passing through the foramen ovale and canalis arteri- osus ; and if so, then the body has the overplus. The aorta of a fetus is, therefore, not only larger than that of an adult, but larger than in that proportion which the size of the fetus bears to the size of the placenta. Or it may be put in this view: that, besides the difference in the size of the aorta in a young subject (as be- fore observed) and in an adult, the size of the aorta in the fetus is still larger, viz. more than in that proportion which the circulation in the lungs of the adult bears to the circulation in the lungs of the fetus, which is probably much more than that of the placenta*. Experiment on the Arteries of a Child.—I injected the descending aorta of a fetus, just above the diaphragm, in the same manner as 1 did the carotids in the camel and swan, by which means I injected the mesenteric artery, the subject of experiment. This artery has a trunk, which at first does not put off branches, and then sends oft' several, which may be all called so many trunks. These again do not im- mediately give off branches, and are therefore measurable with the trunk from which they arise. 1 first made a section of the trunk of the mesenteric artery, near its root, before it sends off' any considerable branches, one third of an inch in length ; and then another section of the same artery, having the same length, close to the origin of the first branch : all the branches arising from it being preserved of the same length with the trunk itself. When they were weighed in opposition to each other, the trunk without the branches was found to weigh thirteen grains and a half; while that with the branches weighed eighteen grains, that is, four grains and a half more than the trunk. A section of the aorta, near half an inch long, being made just above the origin of the inferior mesenteric artery, was weighed against a section of the same length, including the inferior * [I apprehend the author's meaning to he simply that the excess of the adult pul- monary circulation over the fatal (which excess must previously have passed through the uorta) is more than equal to what formerly went to supply the placcnt*. Conse- quently the body must have had the overplus.]