THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 401 out affecting the other; which probably is one reason why the treat- ment of inflammation in those parts is attended with such bad success. We cannot give a better illustration of the use of the adhesions pro- duced in consequence of this inflammation, than to contrast it with the erysipelatous, of which I have already given an account. When the erysipelatous inflammation takes place, the matter gets very freely into the surrounding and sound cellular membrane, and then diffuses itself almost over the whole body; while, in another kind of constitution, the adhesive inflammation would have been produced, to have prevented its progress. A man was attacked with a violent inflammation on each side of the anus, which I did not see till some days after it began. It had the ap- pearance of the suppurative inflammation joined with the erysipelatous; for it was not so circumscribed as the suppurative, nor did it spread upon the skin like the true erysipelatous, and the skin had a shining oedema- tous appearance. The inflammation went deeper into the cellular mem- brane than the true erysipelatous. He was bled; the blood was ex- tremely sizy. He took a purge, and was fomented. He had a difficulty in making water, most probably from the pressure of the swelling upon the urethra. The day following I observed that the scrotum of that side was very much swelled, which had extended up the right spermatic chord; and on examining this swelling, I plainly felt a fluid in it, with air, which sounded on being shaken. The case now plainly discovered itself. I immediately opened the suppuration on each side of the anus, which discharged a dusky coloured pus, very foetid, with a good deal of air, and upon squeezing the swelling in the scrotum, &c. I could easily discharge the matter and air by these openings: I therefore made him lie principally upon his back, and squeeze these swellings often, with a view to discharge this matter by the openings. The matter at the part where it was formed was not contained in a bag or abscess, but formed in the cellular membrane, without previous adhesion. rIlie scrotum now inflamed, and seemed to have a tendency to open; at least it looked livid and spotted. I opened it at this part, and it dis- charged a good deal of matter and air. A general suppuration came upon the whole cellular membrane of those parts, and the matter passed up through the cellular membrane of the belly ; and the cellular mem- brane of the loins was loaded with matter, from its sinking down from the cells of the abdomen. I made openings there, and could squeeze out a great deal of matter and air. A mortification came on just above the right groin, and when I removed the slough matter was discharged. I also made openings on the loins, on the side of the abdomen, &c. He 2 D VOL. Ill,