453 OF PUS. A proof of this is, that whenever a real disease attacks either the sup- purating surface, or the constitution, these processes of nature are de- stroyed, and the very reverse take place, the production of true pus ceases, and the fluid becomes changed in some measure in proportion to these morbid alterations; in general it becomes thinner and more trans- parent, as it the part was returning back to the adhesive state, it par- takes more of the nature of the blood, as is the case in most other secre- tions under similar circumstances. This in common language is not called pus, but sanies. Pus arising from such state of sores has more of the serum and fre- quently of the coagulating lymph in it, and less of the combination that renders it coagulable with a solution of sal ammoniac. It has a greater proportion also of the extraneous parts of the blood that are soluble in water, such as salts, and becomes sooner putrid. The two last species of matter not being of the same specific nature with the sore, they have the power of stimulating even their own sore. On this last account too pus becomes more irritating to the adjoining •parts with which it comes in contact, producing excoriation of the skin -and the ulcerative inflammation, as the tears, when they run out, exco- riate the skin of the cheek from the quantity of salts which they contain. From this effect the matter has been called corrosive, a quality which it has not; the only quality which it possesses being that of irritating the parts with which it comes in contact in such a manner that they are removed out of the way by the absorbents, as will be described when treating on ulceration. In these instances of the change in the pus, we may say that the change is effected by the decomposition and new combination not being carried on so perfectly. This may probably depend on the secreting vessels having lost their due structure and action, and this appears to be so much the case that they not only fail in this operation, but the other offices of those vessels, viz. the production of granulations is also checked; for the vessels forming themselves into a certain structure which fits them for secreting pus, it is so ordered that the same struc- ture also fits them for producing granulations; and thus those two pro- cesses arc concomitant effects of the same cause, which cause is a pe- culiar organization superadded to the vessels of the part. W hat organization this may be is not in the least known ; nor must "c wonder at this, for it is exactly the same with every other organ of secretion, about all which we are equally ignorant. Indeed, some of the differences between one gland and another arc made out, and also some- thing of their general structure, but not in such a way as oan lead us to the actions and operations of the several parts upon which the nature