83 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. ■what the real conformation of the heart was, yet it was imagined that the symptoms arose from some imperfection in that organ. From his infancy, every considerable exertion produced a seeming tendency to suffocation; and as suffocation always arises from a want of the due effect of air on the blood, while the circulation is going on, the whole body must change from the scarlet tinge to the modena or purple; and in those parts where the blood gives its colour most, there will this effect be greatest, which is commonly in the face, and particular parts of the face, at the finger-ends, etc. While very young nothing but crying brought on those fits, but when he was grown so as to take bodily ex- ercise, as running, etc., then they became more frequent and more vio- lent ; and it is to be observed, that the older he grew the worse he was likely to be; for, with years approaching to maturity, his actions were likely to increase : great care, however, was taken to suppress such ac- tions as were found from experience to bring on the fits. No medical advice could be of the least service, further than to inform him what ■experience had already taught, unless to recommend occasionally, when his friends found that the fits of suffocation were more easily excited than usual, that he should lose a little blood, so as to lessen the neces- sary action of breathing; putting, in this way, the quantity and motion of the blood more upon a par, and at the same time not to indulge too much his appetite; but all these precautions hardly kept him tolerably well. The heart, in proportion to the difficulty, acted with more vio- lence ; and one could rather have wished the contrary to have taken place. As he could hardly use any exercise of his own, motion was ! given him, such as riding slowly on horseback, in carriages, etc. He lived to the age of between thirteen and fourteen; and though the dis- order did not destroy him, yet it is most probable that he could not have lived long, as he was every day arriving more and more at an age of action, but not in the same proportion acquiring prudence. When he died he was opened by Dr. Poultney, who transmitted an account of the appearance of the parts to the College of Physicians of London, which is published in the third volume of their Medical Transactions : such parts as are immediately connected with my subject I shall transcribe. “ Both lobes of the lungs were remarkably small, and some parts of them flaccid to such a degree as to suggest an idea of their having been incapable of performing their functions*. The liquor pericardii was in due quantity, and the heart was firm in texture, and of the naturai sizef. On examining the ventricles and the beginning of the aorta, a canal, or * Although I have transcribed this, yet I do not lay much stress noon it. t This shows there was no disease.