392 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. gouty inflammation in the part, but cannot always clear the constitution of it; there is therefore no benefit arising from such practice in these cases. The repelling powers which act from applications being made to the parts immediately affected, or by the change of one disease into another, become the most difficult of any to be ascertained; because it must be very difficult to say what will merely repel and what will completely cure, or perfectly change the disease. Repulsion is certainly to be con- sidered as a cure of the part, whatever may be the consequence; and a change in the disease is certainly a cure of the first, although a disease may still exist in the part. That an artificial irritation made on one part does not (always at least) cure or remove a diseased irritation of a specific nature in another part, is, I think, evident in many cases, even although that specific [disease] should be an affection of the constitution. This at least was evident in a case of the gout, for when the gout was in some of the vital parts, and sinapisms were applied to the feet, they did not relieve those vital parts, although the inflammation in consequence of the sinapisms was considerable ; but this inflammation brought on the gout in the feet, and as soon as this happened the vital parts were relieved, from which it would appear that a specific irritation required a specific derivator. It may be supposed that the inflammation, in consequence of the sinapisms, brought on or produced such a derangement in the feet as made them more susceptible of the gout, or that the inflammation became an im- mediate cause of the action of the gout taking place there. It is plain, too, that where there is a gouty disposition, or a gouty action in the constitution, a derangement in a part may bring it on, for in the above person, who had still those internal spasms recurring upon the least exercise or anxiety of mind, but was in all other respects, and at all other times, well, by applying sinapisms a second time to his feet, till a considerable cutaneous inflammation came on, the gout attacked the ball of the great toe of the right foot, and the last joint of the great toe of the left, which lasted about two days. This attack of gout, how- ever, did not relieve him of the remaining spasms, as the first did, and therefore was to be considered an additional gouty action. This could certainly not have taken place if the constitution had not been gouty. In diseases where we have no specific application capable of acting immediately, the advantages gained by derivation, revulsion, or sym- pathy are much greater in many cases than by the effects of any local application at present known ; and the medicines which arc capable of producing this effect are often such as would either have uo“ cfl'ect if up- » [" an effect” in the original text.]