210 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. If it be questioned whether anastomoses are a means of retarding or accelerating the circulation, I should answer that they appear to me to retard the blood’s motion", although we find vessels anastomosing as freely with one another at the greatest distance from the heart as near to it; but at the same time we may observe, that where we should suppose it was necessary for the circulation to be brisk we find no ana- stomoses in the arteries, as in the lungs, the kidneys, and I believe hardly in the liver, except on the peritoneal coat, whose arteries are continu- ations of the hepatic artery. I believe that the anastomosing of vessels increases their volume on the whole, and therefore allows a greater quantity of blood to be in them than if they did not. That kind of net-work too which they make increases the magnitude of the vascular system ; for to answer this pur- pose they take lateral and circular courses, which give them greater length than if they had simply passed between origin and destination in straight lines. The better to ascertain the velocityb of the blood in the arteries at the different distances from the heart, it will be necessary to know whethel an artery be a cylinder or a cone; and, when it divides into any number ' of branches, whether the whole of these taken together be less, equal, or greater than the vessel or vessels from which they arose ; and therefore whether they hold less, the same, or more blood. It may be observed that arteries keep a pretty exact proportion with each other, the branches with the trunk, &c., through the whole system; and therefore, what- ever may be their shape, they preserve it pretty regular: viz. if they are cylindrical, they are so regularly; if conical, the same. I should suspect, however, that the anastomosing of the arteries, in some degree, ; interferes with this regularity; but it is probable that the ultimate ; branches may come back again and correspond with the original trunk. To ascertain this, it is necessary to make choice of arteries which for some length either send off" no branches, or at least such as are very “ [There can, I think, be no doubt that anastomoses retard the circulation, on the same principle as the current is retarded in passing from a smaller into a larger tube; also by opposing currents. See note on capillaries.] b [Dr. Young estimated the mean velocity of the blood in the aorta at 8 inches per l second; but less in the smaller vessels, in proportion to the gradually increasing area of the vascular cone (Med. Lit., p. 609, and note, p. 38.). The velocity, however, will , necessarily differ in different vessels, according to the obstruction which it meets with, I although this is scarcely at all found to affect the arterial tension, which, according to 1 the experiments of Poiseuille, is almost exactly the same in all parts of the body. The J ventricles are estimated to throw out about one ounce and a half to two ounces at every j contraction, and the whole blood to perform about twenty complete revolutions in every ' hour.]