CONSEQUENCES ON THE CONSTITUTION. 513 cure a disease of the constitution till the cause be removed ; however, it may be supposed that these medicines may make the constitution less susceptible of the disease, and may also contribute to lessen the cause, by disposing the local complaints to heal; but where the hectic arises’ trom specific disease, as, for instance, if a hectic disposition comes on from a venereal disposition, bark will enable the constitution to support it better than lt otherwise could have done, but can never remove it Wine, I am fearful, rather does harm if it increases the actions of the machine without giving strength, a thing carefully to be avoided : how- ever,^ I have not yet made up my mind about wine. When the hectic arises from local disease in such parts as the con ' stitution can bear the removal of, then the diseased part should be re- moved viz. when it arises from some incurable disease in an extremity • and although all the symptoms above described should have already taken place, we shall find that upon a removal of the limb the svm- ptoms will abate almost immediately. I have known a hectic pulse at one hundred and twenty sink to ninety in a few hours upon the removal the hectic cause. I have known persons sleep sound the first night " ithout an opiate, who had not slept tolerably for weeks before. I have known cold sweats stop immediately, as well as those called colliquative I have known a purging immediately stop upon the removal of the hectic cause, and the urine drop its sediment. It is possible, too, that the pain m the operation, and the sympathetic affection of the constitution may assist in these salutary effects. It is an action diametrically oppositl to the hectic, and may be said to bring back the constitution to a natu- ral state. §.3. Of Dissolution. Dissolution is the lost stage of all, n„d is commo„ immedia(e consequence of, all diseases. whether local or constitutional. A man shall not recover of a fever, whether original or sympathetic, but shall move into the last stage, or dissolution. It shall take place in the «e cond stage o a disease, where the state of constitution and part, appears o he formed out of the firs,, as, for instance, a ,tJ£e the l" \h f°'e the.knee* or have a very bad compound fracture in the leg; the first constitutional symptoms shall have been violent but all shall appear to have been got the better of, and there shall be hopes of recovery when suddenly he shall be attacked with a shiver in-fit -t perform all its actions, vi, shall not produce hot t and sweat, but shall continue a kind of irregular hot fit atten I 1 with ,„;s Of appetite, quick low pulse, and sunken ^ “ W Ij