OP THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 231 tava inferior into the auricle, the gravitating pressure of the descending column of blood in the arteries will of course be sufficient to lift the ascending column in the veins se- veral inches beyond what is actually required. The reason that the tension of the veins is not equal to that in the arteries is that the blood in the former finds a ready escape into the auricle, so that unless some obstruction is found in the auricle, the venous tension can never exceed that which will be required simply to lift the column ol blood to the heart, added to that required to overcome the friction. Dr. Hales found, that although the column of blood from the carotid artery of a horse rose ten feet in his experimental tube, the venous column did not exceed six inches; but “ when from agitation of the animal, or any straining exertion, the passage of the blood into the breast was impeded, all the veins became tense, and a tube inserted into the returning jugular had blood running over, at a height of three feet above the heart.” A similar increase of tension is shown in common venesection, so that the first jet of blood is often found to ascend to the top of a lofty bedstead, although a minirte afterwards the stream may not project a single foot. Poiseuille found that the arterial tension of the carotid of a dog was just doubled when the aorta and its primary branches were previously tied. 7. The Capillaries.—It was Bichat’s opinion that the influence of the heart did not extend beyond these vessels, but that “ dans le systfeme eapillaire generate la contrac- tility insensible ou la tonicite rcste seul pour cause de mouvement du sang;” and cer- tainly, if we admit ever so little force to reside in this system, the extent of it is so great that the aggregate force of the whole would amount to something very consider- able. I shall not do more than simply refer to plants, sponges, medusae, entozoa, and many of the lower tribes of animals, in which the circulation of the nutritive fluids seems entirely to be dependent on the force of the capillaries; but as we ascend the animal series we still observe the influence of this system, the heart seeming to be, as in fishes, rather an appendage to respiration, to ensure the regularity of this function, than ne- cessary to the general circulation. Hunter has remarked that the heart is proportion- ally small wherever the arteries are endowed with great muscular powers, examples of which may be found in foetuses and hybernating animals: in both of which there is com- paratively great tenacity of life, joined to an unusual development of the cutaneous capillary circulation. In the foetus a double circulation is to be maintained through the placenta and the system, although the heart is found to be proportionally small as compared with the whole mass of blood, at the same time that it is placed under such circumstances that it cannot possibly receive any assistance from suction or muscular motion. Another scries of proofs is derived from diseases and malformations of the heart and great arteries. In many of these examples (See Otto’s Compend. of Path. Anat., pp, 2(52—269, and MeckeCs Man. d’Anat., ii. 109, 292.) it seems impossible to consider the heart as the prime agent of the circulation; not to mention that the foetus has occa- sionally attained its full growth in the womb, and even lived for some days after expul- sion, where not the smallest rudiment of a heart has been observable. (See Brodic in Phil. Tr. 1809, p. 161.) Now, as there is no pulsation in the vena cava of adults, in the trunk of the lymphatic system, nor in the aorta of fishes, but the fluid in these vessels is entirely propelled by the force e tergo, it seems reasonable to infer that pro- bably the same principle operates in the foetus, and that the organization in fact follows more or less the inferior type where the capillary circulation is totally independent of a central organ. Many facts, however, might be stated which seem directly to prove the independent action of the capillaries: 1. The derivation ofblood into the collateral cutaneous capil- laries, and the increased warmth which ensues thereupon, in cases where a ligature has been placed on the main artery of a limb. 2. The united force of the capillaries, as evinced in the raising of the toe when one leg is placed over the other, as contrasted