59(J ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. stance, as far as I know, has not hitherto been accounted for, and what is rather curious, in many recent instances of this disease, the patients have been coachmen and postilions*. The popliteal aneurism has been in general supposed to arise from a weakness in the coats of the artery, independent of the presence of disease: if this were true, we might reasonably conclude that, except in the part preternaturally dilated, the vessel remained in a sound state, which would naturally suggest the mode of practice generally recommended, viz. opening the sac, tying up the artery above and below it, leaving the bag to suppurate, and afterwards heal up like any common sore. Mr. Hunter finding an alteration of structure in the coats of the artery previous to its dilatation, and that the artery immediately above the sac seldom unites when tied up in the operation for the aneurism, so that as soon as the ligature comes away, the secondary bleeding destroys the patient, was led to conclude that a previous disease took place in the coats of the artery, in consequence of which it admitted of dilatation capable of producing aneurism. But not satisfied with the experiments on frogs, given by Haller in support of the opinion that weakness alone was sufficient to produce the dilatation, he resolved to try the result in a quadruped, which, from the vessels being very similar in their struc- ture to those of the human subject, would be more likely to ascertain the truth or fallacy of Haller’s opinion. That the experiment might have as much as possible the chances most likely to produce aneu- * Morgagni and his friends found aneurisms of the norta more frequently in guides, post-boys, and other persons who sit almost continually on horseback, which is attri- buted to the concussion and agitation.—Vide Letter xvii. Art. IS. When we consider the popliteal artery as affected by the difjerent positions of the leg and thigh, and the obstruction which the circulation must inevitably meet with in that artery, when the limb is bent, we see a probable reason why it should be more liable to disease than any of the other ramifications of the aorta; especially when it is found that 'aneurisms in the aorta itself are most frequent at the curve of that artery. If this observation is allowed to have any weight, the reason will be evident why the disease should occur more frequently in coachmen and postilions; for their knees being almost constantly in a bent state, from the necessary exertions of their bodies in their different occupations, and from the violent motion of their horses and carriages, the circulation must often be considerably increased; while the branches immediately below the po] liteal artery will be in some measure obstructed by the action of the gastro. cnemii and solsei muscles, in steadying the body in the stirrup, or against the foot- board of the carriage. The unfavourable circumstances respecting the popliteal artery, do not in common life seem of themselves capable of producing disease, but when increased to a great de- gree, as in the occupations of coachmen and postilions. They, at the same time, from want of sufficient exercise, have their legs weaker and less healthy than the rest of the body ; and the cases to be mentioned appear still further to prove, that these circum- stances may produce such a state of the artery' at this part, as to dispose to the forma- tion of aneurism.