GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 110 terwards coagulate, as it depends in each on the life of the part not being destroyed. I took notice in the history of the coagulation of the lymph, that heat of 120° excited this action in that fluid : to see how far muscular contraction was similar in this respect, I made the follow- ing experiment*. As soon as the skin could be removed from a sheep that was newly killed, a square piece of muscle was cut off, which was afterwards di- vided into three pieces, in the direction of the fibres; each piece was put into a bason of water, the water in each bason being of different temperatures, viz. one 125°, about 27° warmer than the animal; another 98°, the heat of the animal; and the third 55°, about 43° colder than the animal. The muscle in the water heated to 125°, contracted di- rectly, so as to be half an inch shorter than the other two, and was hard and stiff. The muscle in the water heated to 98° ; after six minutes, began to contract and grow stiff; at the end of twenty minutes it was nearly, though not quite, as short and hard as the above. The muscle in the water heated to 55°; after fifteen minutes, began to shorten and grow hard; after twenty minutes it was nearly as short and as hard as that in the water heated to 98°. At the end of twenty-four hours they were all found to be of the same length and stiffness. Here, then, is also a similarity in the excitements of coagulation in the blood, and of contraction in muscles, both apparently depending on the same principle, namely, life f- If it should still be difficult to conceive how a body in a fluid state, whose parts are in constant motion upon one another, always shifting their situation with respect to themselves and the body, and which may lose a portion without affecting itself or the body, can possibly be alive, let us see if it is also difficult to conceive that a body may be so com- pounded as to make a perfect whole of itself, having no parts dissimilar, and having the same properties in a small quantity as in a great. Un- der those circumstances, the removing a portion is not taking away a constituent part, upon which the whole depends, or by which it is made a whole, but is only taking away a portion of the whole, the remaining portion being equal in quality to the whole, and in this respect is simi- lar to the reducing a whole of anything. This might be perfectly illus- trated, without straining the imagination, by considering the operation of union by the first intention. Union by the first intention is an im- mediate sympathetic harmony between divided parts when brought simply into contact, which I call contiguous sympathy. In this case it • Vide Pliil. Trans, lxvi.'p. 412, Paper on Drowning; also, Obs. on certain Parts of the Animal GSconomy, vol. iv. of this edition. t The application of this principle in disease T shall not at present take notice of.