296 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. produced for the restoration of the most simple injury in sound parts, which goes beyond the power of union by the first intention, wre must look upon it in such instances as one of the most simple operations in nature, whatever it may be when arising from disease or in diseased parts. Inflammation is to be considered only as a disturbed state of parts, which requires a new but salutary mode of action to restore them to that state wherein a natural mode of action alone is necessary. From such a view of the subject therefore inflammation in itself is not to be considered as a disease, but as a salutary operation consequent either to some violence or some disease °. But this same operation can and does vary : it is often carried much further, even in sound parts, than to accomplish union, producing a very different effect, and forming a very different species of discharge from the former; instead of uniting and confining the parts, rather separating and exposing them, which process is called suppuration, and varies with circumstances. Howrever, even this in sound parts leads to a cure, although in another or second- ary way; and in disease, where it can alter the diseased mode of ac- tion, it likewise leads to a cure; but where it cannot accomplish that salutary purpose, as in the cancer, scrofula, venereal disease, &c., it does mischief. This operation of the body, termed inflammation, requires our great- est attention, for it is one of the most common and most extensive in its effects of any in the animal body: it is both very extensive in its causes, and it becomes itself the cause of many local effects both salu- tary and diseased. It has its different stages, in which it produces more immediately its different effects, which are local, such as adhesions, suppuration, and ulceration, and often death in the part inflamed, together wdth second- ary complaints which are universal, as fever, nervous affections; and when in parts that cannot heal, or in constitutions which are too wTeak, the hectic fever, next dissolution, or universal death. However, by its forming those adhesions, it often precludes the necessity of suppuration ; and also entirely prevents many local diseases where probably suppura- tion would be the consequence if such adhesions had not taken place, with all the train of consequences of suppuration, such as abscesses, fis- tula?, diseased bones, &c., which are prevented by it. It is also one of the modes of action in many specific diseases, and in morbid affections pro- ceeding from poisons. Inflammation is not only occasionally the cause of diseases, but it is * [This is too groat refinement. The definition of disease ought certainly to include all such deviations from the natural state as either produce suffering or endanger life.]