ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 603 of the cure ; they were included in one strong ligature, sufficiently tight to prevent the pulsation in the sac without injuring the coats of the vessels. The ends of the ligature were brought out at the wound, which was in this case dressed from the bottom. The advantages pro- posed by this treatment were, to be able to see the progress of the cure, and to come readily at the artery, if any unfavourable circumstance oc- curred, since the abscesses in the former case were-, suspected to have arisen from the mode of healing. After the operation, the superficial veins of the leg became exceed- ingly turgid and numerous, and the limb, although warm, became rather less so than the other, particularly the foot. Ihe next day the leg was swelled, and the heat 12° lower than the other; the second day it exceeded the other 5°; and on the fourth day the two limbs were equally warm : the patient was free from fever. On the fourteenth day the ligature came away,- and the torniquet was loosely applied, as a precaution against bleeding; the sartorius muscle was a good deal enlarged, and covered the passage down to the artery, so as to prevent the matter from having a free discharge, a good deal being confined behind it, and with difficulty squeezed out at each dressing. On the nineteenth day there was a haemorrhage from behind the muscle, the swelling of which rendered -it nearly as difficult to come at the vessel, as if the parts had healed by the first intention : the bleeding was stopped by applying pressure, after having lost about ten or twelve ounces. On the twentieth there was a slight bleeding, which was readily stopped : yet five hours afterwards the femoral artery gave way, and he lost about one pound of blood before the tourniquet was applied. The artery was laid bare, and tied a little higher up, the patient being very weak and low : in this state he continued till the twenty-third day with- out bleeding, when it bled again from a small vessel. On the twenty- sixth, a considerable haemorrhage having taken place, he became faint, then delirious, had vomiting -with hiccough, and died the same day. Upon examining the limb, sinuses were discovered, both upwards and downwards, in the direction of the artery and sartorius muscle, besides smaller ones in different directions. In thi3 case the bad consequences and death of the patient do not ap- pear to have arisen from the operation, but were entirely the result of the mode of treatment afterwards, as will appear from the following cases. The third patient operated upon by Mr. Hunter was a postilion, thirty-five years old. Compression upon the femoral artery' was at- tempted, but the pain was so great that it could not be continued.