THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 39G §. 13. Of the different Forms in which Medicines are applied, and the subsiding of Inflammation. Fomentations or steams, washes, and poultices are the common ap- plications to a part in the state of inflammation. The first and last arc commonly applied to inflammation arising from external violence, and proceeding to suppuration ; the second, commonly to internal surfaces, ns the mouth, nose, urethra, vagina, rectum, etc. The action of the two first is but of very short duration. Fomentations and steams are fluid bodies raised into vapour: thby may be either simple or compound; simple, as steam, or vapour of water; compound, as steam of water impregnated with medicines. This mode of applying heat and moisture appears, from experience, to be more efficacious than when these are applied in the form of a fluid; it often gives ease at the time of the application, while at other times it gives great pain; but if it does give ease, the symptoms generally re- turn between the times of applying it, and with nearly the same violence. How far the application of a medicine for fifteen minutes out of twenty- four hours can do good, I am not certain; we find, however, that the application of a vapour of a specific medicine, though but for a few mi- nutes in the day, will have very considerable effects : fumigations with cinnabar may serve as art instance®. The fomentations are commonly composed of the decoction of herbs; sometimes of the marsh-mallows, but oftener of the decoction of herbs possessing essential oil, which I believe are the best; because I suppose that whatever will excite con- traction of the vessels, will in some degree counteract the dilating prin- ciple. Vinegar as well as spirits are put into them, but how far they stimulate to contraction I do not know, but rather believe they remove irritation, which must lessen the inflammatory action. Washes are in general fluid applications, and are more commonly ap- plied to inflammations of internal surfaces than of the common integu- ments : there are washes to the eye called collyria ; washes to the mouth and throat, called gargles; washes to the urethra, called injections ; and to the rectum, called clysters; but I am fearful that we are not yet ac- quainted with the true specific virtues of these washes, at least there is something very vague in their application. There are, for instance, astringent washes for the inflammation of the eye, such as white and blue vitriol, alum, etc.; stimulating warm gargles for inflammations of the throat, such as mustard, red port, claret with vinegar and honey ; but • [But in this instance the mercury is rapidly absorbed into the system.]