491 GRANULATIONS. time there might have been formed in the surrounding soft parts a bony case, winch would have united the two bones; but the parts being de- prived of the two common modes of union, they were led to a third. From the ends of the bones, and some parts of their surface, as well as from the inner surface of the soft parts, there was formed new flesh, similar to granulations. The hollow ends of the bones were tilled with this matter, which was rising beyond the common surface of the bone, and in some places adhesion had taken place between it and the sur- rounding parts, with which it had come in contact. The same appear- ance which this new flesh had in this case I have several times seen in joints, both on the ends of the bones and on the inside of the capsular ligament, but never before understood how it was formed ; hence we find that granulations can and do arise in parts that are not exposed. This is what I have long suspected to be the case in the union of the fractured patella, and this fact confirms me more in that opinion0. Here then we are shown that the cause of granulation, or the forming of new flesh for union (independently of extravasation, or the adhesive inflammation), is more extensive in its effects than we were formerly acquainted with, and that granulations, or new flesh, arise in all cases from the first and second bond of union being lost in the part (which indeed seldom happens, except from exposure); it therefore makes no difference whether the first and second bond of union escape through an opening made in the skin, as in a compound fracture, or it loses its living powers, as in the present case, and as I suppose to be the case in a fracture of the patella, which obliges the absorbents to take it up as an extraneous body. §.2. The Nature and Properties of Granulations. Granulations and this new-formed substance arc an accretion of ani- mal matter upon the wounded or exposed surface: they are formed by an exudation of the coagulating lymph from the vessels, into which new substance both the old vessels very probably extend, and also entirely new ones form, so that the granulations come to be very vascular, and indeed they are more so than almost any other animal substance. That this is the case is seen in sores every day. I have often been able to trace the growth and vascularity of this new substance. I have seen upon a sore a white substance, exactly similar in ever)' visible respect ■* [This opinion Inis not been confirmed by any subsequent and more unequivocal proofs, and therefore it is now generally considered to be erroneous.]