OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 404 pus is formed but in consequence of it. That it is an effect of inflamma- tion only is proved in abscesses from a breach in the solids, attended with exposure, and from extraneous matter of all kinds, whether intro- duced or formed there. In abscess, suppuration is an immediate con- sequence of inflammation: from the exposure of internal cavities no suppuration comes on till inflammation has formed the disposition and action; and although we find collections of extraneous matter, some- thing like pus, in different parts of the body, yet such extraneous matter is not pus. However, towards the last, in such collections, pus is often formed; but then this is in consequence of inflammation having taken place towards the surface, and when such collections are opened they immediately inflame universally, similar to every other breach of the solids, and then the future discharge is pus, all of which I shall now treat. The irritation, which is immediately the cause of suppuration, is the same, from whatever cause it may proceed, similar to that which pro- duces the adhesive stage; it [suppuration] is a similar process going through the same stages, and attended with nearly the same circum- stances, whether it takes its rise from external violence, the constitu- tion, or a disposition in the part, if all other circumstances are equal. However, it is not so general in its causes as the adhesive, for the thick- ening process will take place in many diseases where true suppuration is not admitted, as in some scrofulous cases, some venereal, and also some cancers. Suppuration, therefore, depends more on the soundness of parts than the adhesive inflammation ; and this is so much the case that we can, in some degree, judge of a sore simply by its discharge. It appears very difficult to give a true and clear idea of the whole chain of causes leading to suppuration. The immediate state of parts, which may be called the immediate cause, I conceive to be such as can- not carry on its usual functions of life, and which state of parts I ha\ e called the state of imperfection, let the cause of that state be what it will*. We have shown that irritation simply is not always sufficient; it often only brings on the adhesive stage, which is in most cases in- tended to prevent the suppurative, as has been observed. It fe a curious fact to see the same mode of action producing two such contrary effects, and each tending to a cure : the first producing from necessity the second, and being also subservient to it. Violence done to parts is one of the great causes of suppuration; but we have already remarked that violence simply docs not always produce this in- * [To say that the causes of suppuration operate by inducing a “state of imperfec- tion,” is, after all, a mere figurative generalization, which does not advance us a single step nearer the solution of the difficulty.]