THE INTERNAL COATS OF VEINS. 583 rounding tumefaction has subsided, like hard cords. But this salutary effect is not always produced, and suppuration in the vein is the conse- quence ; but often so confined, that only a small abscess forms in the cavity of the vein near to the orifice. The confinement of the matter in this part of the vein arises from adhesions in the vein a little above and below the orifice. But in many cases the inflammation and suppuration are not confined to this part, from the adhesions not having taken place; for it frequently happens that an abscess is formed, occupying a consi- derable length of the vein both ways ; and we often have more than one abscess, nay at times there is a series of them, and generally in the di- rection of the vein, between the orifice and the heart; but not always in this course, for we find them sometimes between the wound and the extreme parts. I have seen from a wound in the foot the vena saphsena inflamed all up the leg and thigh, nearly as high as the groin ; and I have been obliged to open a string of abscesses almost through its whole course. In cases where I have had opportunities of inspecting veins after death in which the inflammation had been violent, upon examining the vein at some distance from this violence, I found the inflammation in the adhesive state : in some places the sides of the vein were adhering, and in others the inner surface of the veins was furred over with a coagulable lymph. Where different abscesses had formed I have always found that the spaces of the vein between them had united by the adhesive inflam- mation, and it is this union which circumscribes the abscesses. Upon examining the arm of a man who had died at St. George’s Ho- spital, I found the veins, both below and above the orifice, in many places united by the adhesive inflammation. I also found in many parts of the veins that suppuration had begun, as we find, on an inflamed surface, but had not yet arrived at ulceration ; and in several ether places ulce- ration had taken place, so as to have destroyed.that surface next the skin, and a circumscribed abscess was formed. The vein near to the axilla had taken on suppuration, beyond which adhesions had not formed, and this had given a free passage for the matter into the circulation, of which most probably the patient died. In those cases where larger abscesses have come on than those formed simply from the ulceration of tire wound made by the lancet, I have always found that the vein was afterwards obliterated, having united and healed up as any other cavity does, so that such patients could never be bled in the same vein again, which is a proof that the sides of the vein can unite by the adhesive inflammation. Inflammation of a vein is a common effect after bleeding horses, which is usually done in the neck. The operator on this animal does not always