ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 599 covers the artery was then laid bare about three inches in length, after which the artery itself was plainly felt. A slight incision, about an inch long, was thqn made through this fascia, along the side of the vessel, and the fascia dissected off; by this means the artery was exposed. Having disengaged the artery from its lateral connections by the knife, and from the other adhering parts by the help of a thin spatula, a double ligature was passed behind it, by means of an eyed probe. The doubling of the ligature brought through by the probe, was cut so as to form two sepa- rate ligatures. The artery was now tied by both these ligatures, but so slightly as only, to compress the sides together. A similar application of ligature was made a little lower. The reason for having four liga- tures was to compress such a length of artery as might make up for the want of tightness, it being wished to avoid great pressure on the vessel at any one part. The ends of the ligatures were carried directly out at the wound, the sides of which were now brought together, and supported by sticking-plaster and a linen roller, that they might unite by the first intention. The limb was found, some hours after the operation, not only to re- tain its natural heat,,but even to be warmer than the other leg. The second day after the operation the brawny firmness of the leg was con- siderably diminished, it was become soft, loose, and a good deal smaller, and the aneurismal tumour had lost more than one third of its size. Nothing could show more plainly the action of the absorbents than the change the leg had undergone in so short a time ; the diminution of the tumour probably arising from the fluid blood which it contained having passed into collateral branches, or into the tibial artery. The fourth day, on the removal of the dressings, the edges of the wound were found united through its whole length, excepting where prevented by the ligatures; there was neither pain nor tumefaction in the part; but the aneurismal tumour was the same as on the second day. On the ninth day after the operation there was a considerable discharge of blood from the part where the ligatures passed out; a tourniquet was therefore applied on the artery above, which stopped the bleeding; and although the tourniquet was taken off a few hours after, no blood fol- lowed. The head of a roller was then placed upon the wound, in the direction of the artery, and over that the tourniquet, which was not, however, tightened more than was thought sufficient to take off the im- petus of the blood in that portion of the artery. . On the tenth day appearances were much the same, only that between the compress and the knee there appeared a little fulness, like beginning inflammation. On the eleventh day this was gone off, and on the fif-