114 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. often is by lightning: it takes places in some deaths, and is produced in some of the natural operations of the body ; all of which I shall now consider. Animals killed by lightning, and also by electricity, have not their muscles contracted : this arises from death being instantaneously pro- duced in the muscles, which therefore cannot be affected by any sti- mulus, nor consequently by the stimulus of death*. In such cases the blood does not coagulate. Animals that are run very hard, and killed in that state, or, what produces a still greater effect, are run to death, have neither their muscles contracted nor their blood coagulated ; and in both respects the effect is in proportion to the cause *. I had two deer run till they dropped down and died : in neither did I find the muscles contracted nor the blood coagulated b. In many kinds of death we find that the muscles neither contract nor the blood coagulate. In some cases the muscles will contract while the blood continues fluid, in some the contrary happens, and in others the blood will only coagulate to the consistence of cream. Blows on the stomach kill immediately, and the muscles do not con- tract, nor does the blood coagulate. Such deaths as prevent the con- traction of the muscles or the coagulation of the blood are, I believe, always sudden. Death from sudden gusts of passion is of this kind; and in all these cases the body soon putrefies after death. In many dis- eases, if accurately attended to, we find this correspondence between muscles and blood ; for where there is strong action going on, the muscles contract strongly after death, and the blood coagulates strongly. It is unnecessary, I imagine, to relate particular instances of the ef- fects of each of these causes ; I need only mention that I have seen them all. In a natural evacuation of blood, viz. menstruation, it is * This is the reason why hunted animals arc commonly more tender than those that are shot. * [These sort of expressions are evidently vague and unsatisfactory. It is a fact that muscles contract at death ; but to say that this is caused by the “ stimulus of death” adds nothing to our knowledge of the fact. It is the ascription of a negative cause, and serves but to cover our ignorance of the real cause with the cloak of a name, and that name a bad one. See p. 32, note*; and vol. i., p. 236, note.'] b [Brisk exercise rather tends to accelerate coagulation (Mayo's Physiology, p. 38 : Prater on the Blood, p. 94.), although, if carried to the point of exhaustion, this effect is altogether prevented ; that is, according to the physiological hypothesis, the stimulus of exercise, by being in excess, becomes a sedative. It is to be observed, however, that the clot, although it forms more rapidly, contracts less, both in extent and duration, than under ordinary circumstances, and runs more rapidly into putrefaction. But mus- cular contraction is obedient to precisely the same laws, and hence the argument for the analogy of these phenomena, and that coagulation must consequently be a vital process.]