THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. be a bluish purple, which I took notice of in the short sketch of the pecu- liar inflammations; hut the parts inflamed will in every constitution be as the hypothesis supposes, it is certainly impaired (4th and 5th Rep. of Br. Assoc.). In the sense, therefore, in which the author understood the term, increased action cer- tainly does not take place, although in another sense it certainly must. Probably the effect of inflammation is to approximate the structure of an inflamed part to that of a gland, requiring, on the one hand, a slow circulation, in order that the important offices of reparation may be carried on; and on the other hand, an extensive supply of the vital fluid as aliment to this function. It is at least remarkable, that the whole internal arrangements of glands, as well indeed as of the whole capillary system, seem designed to retard the circulation, while the most prominent symptom of inflammation, and that which forms the only unequivocal proof of its presence, is the slowness of the circula- tion and the extraordinary quantity of effusion which is poured out. Inflammation, however, is an act which involves all the functions of a part. The blood itself is affected. It loses its globular structure, and the globules are observed to lose their repulsive properties, and either to agglomerate together, or to adhere to the sides of the vessels. At first it is generally redder than usual, but afterwards it assumes 'arious shades of brown or yellow, until at length, when suppuration is fairly established, it has the character of pus, which some have been able to trace, as it slowly moved along the vessels, until it finally exuded on the surface. (Gendrin, op. eit., il. 479. (1457, 1458.)) Along with these appearances are sometimes observed irregular flocculi, float- ing in a transparent fluid, which have the appearance of ragged portions of lymph, or decolornted and broken-down globules of blood. As soon as the inflammation begins to subside, the globules reappear, and the current of the circulation is slowly re-esta- blished j but should the inflammation increase still further in violence, the blood then entirely loses its red colour, complete stagnation of it takes place, and the part becomes gangrenous. More or fewer of these changes invariably attend inflammation, which cannot therefore be supposed to consist in a simple alteration of the circulation, but principally of those vital affinities subsisting between the vessels and their contents, which are the peculiar attributes of life. As soon as inflammation is established, an increased secretion takes place from the cells of the cellular membrane, which at first is limpid and colourless, and contains little albumen, but becomes more yellow and more charged with albumen as the inflammation advances. Then it becomes semi-gelatinous, depending on a small admixture of fibrin with it. Bloody striae and puncta now appear in it, the fibrin becomes more abundant, blood is poured out in a pure state, and finally pus is formed. These suc- cessive degenerations are fully exhibited in the section of an inflamed part, beginning from the circumference to the centre, and correspond precisely with the effusions which take place from the surfaces of inflamed membranes, being in fact so many degenera- tions of the natural secretions of the parts. From these facts, therefore, it is obvious that inflammation induces a new state of the secretory function, and that all the results of inflammation are the consequence of this modification, an inference which perfectly coincides with Mr. Hunter’s views of suppuration, although it is opposed to those of M. Gendrin, who supposes that the various matters effused in inflammation are spon- taneously convertible into pus, without the aid of the proper vessels. (Op. cit., ii. 471. (1447, 1448.)) 2. The facts which relate to the influence of the nervous system in the production of inflammation are neither numerous nor precise, which is probably the reason why this part of the subject has received less attention than the state of the capillaries. There