OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 575 been found, I say, that few did well who had their limbs cut off on the field of battle ; while a much greater proportion have done well, in simi- lar cases, who were allowed to go on till the first inflammation was over, and underwent amputation afterwards. There will be exceptions to the above observations, which must be in a great measure left to the discretion of the surgeon; but a few of these exceptions may be mentioned, so as to give a general idea of what is meant. First, it is of less consequence, whichsoever way it is treated, if the part to be amputated is an upper extremity; but it may be observed, that there will be little occasion in general to amputate an upper ex- tremity upon the field, because there will be less danger in moving such a patient than if the injury' had happened to the lower. Secondly, if the parts are very much tom, so that the limb only hangs by a small connection, then the circumstance of the loss of so much substance to the constitution cannot be an objection, as it takes place from the accident, and indeed everything else that can possibly attend an amputation : therefore, in many cases, it may be more convenient to remove the whole. In many cases it may be necessary to perform the operation to get at blood-vessels which may be bleeding too freely, for the searching after them may do more mischief than the operation. I have already observed that gun-shot wounds do not bleed so freely as those made by cutting instruments, and are therefore attended with less danger of that kind : however, it may often happen that a consider- able vessel shall be divided, and a considerable bleeding take place ; in such cases no time is to be lost; the vessel must be taken up to pre- vent a greater evil. This operation may in many cases be attended with considerable trouble, especially as it will, in general, be on the field of action. Here the sailor has the advantage of the soldier. It will also be immediately necessary on the field to replace many parts that would destroy the patient if their restoration was delayed, such as the bowels or lungs protruding out of their cavities, or to re- move large bodies, such as a piece of shell sticking in the flesh, which would give great pain, and do mischief by moving the whole together. Very little can be done to relieve the brain in such a situation8. * [It seems to be now universally admitted by the most esteemed army surgeons that amputation on the field, or very shortly after removal to some fixed hospital, is the most judicious practice, and that the danger is infinitely increased by extending the delay beyond twenty-four hours, with a view of obtaining a more favourable opportu- nity for its performance. The cases which, according to Dr. Ilennen, require this relief, arc, 1st, where an arm or leg is carried completely off by a round shot; 2nd, where