520 THE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. §• 1. The Progress of Abscesses to the Skin. What I mean by a sound abscess, is where there is a sound constitu- tion, the parts affected having all the disposition and powers to heal, and those dispositions and powers allowed to hike place, which will happen more readily if in structures of the body which have naturally a ready disposition to heal; so situated in the body as to be able to support its actions, and not of a specific kind, for which we have no cure; for any specific disease, for which we have a cure, will come within our first di- vision*. 'I he inflammation in a sound and active part, and of a sound consti- tution, in general is pretty violent, attended from the very beginning with a considerable deal of paint; suppuration takes place quickly; the parts between the abscess and the skin are readily affected, and ulcera- tion goes on fast; the skin becomes of the florid red; the matter comes soon to it, especially at a point J, and it bursts; all this is done with great rapidity. The symptoms show such a degree of health in the constitu- tion and the parts, that little is necessary for the surgeon to do in the first stages of the disease. Poultices are recommended in such cases to assist that disposition which the parts have to give way between the skin and the abscess; but I have already observed, that they certainly can have no effect of this kind ; however, they have their uses when the inflammation has reached the skin, for they keep it soft, allow the cuticle to distend, and give way to the swelling underneath, wrhich eases the patient. Warmth and moisture act in many cases as sedatives to our sensations, although not always; and the distinction between those where they give ease, and where they rather give pain, I have not been able to make out. As an abscess of the healthy kind requires but little surgical treatment, * Viz. if a venereal abscess has its specific quality destroyed, it admits of cure as readily as any other, and the same treatment becomes necessary. + Vide Symptoms of Suppurative Inflammation. X This very appearance makes a material difference between an abscess arising from brisk inflammation, and one that is slow in its progress ; it is so remarkable, that I have seen this effect where the matter was at such distance as not tube felt in the least, and where I have doubted whether there was matter or not, almost conceiving that it preceded suppuration. It certainly has this effect long before there is any distention : besides this, of a pointing taking place, there is another eflect of deep suppurations in consequence of inflammation, which is an cedematous appearance, or thickening of the superficial parts. This was taken notice of by Le Dran in internal abscess of the ab- domen, where adhesions had taken place between the suppurating part and the parietes of the abdomen, and by Mr. Pott in suppuration of the brain; whether in such there )s a pointing or not I do not know.