GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 115 neither similar to blood taken from a vein of the same person, nor to that which is extravasated by an accident in any other part of the body, but is a species of blood changed, separated, or thrown off from the com- mon mass by an action of the vessels of the uterus, similar to that of se- ■ cretion; by which action the blood loses the principle of coagulation, and I suppose life (p. 35.). The natural deduction from all these facts and observations I think is j perfectly easy ; it is impossible to miss it. This living principle in the blood, which I have endeavoured to show i to be similar in its effects to the living principle in the solids, owes its i existence to the same matter which belongs to the other, and is the ma- ; teria vitae diffusa, of which every part of an animal has its portion* : it ■ i is, as it were, diffused through the whole solids and fluids, making a : necessary constituent part of them, and forming with them a perfect whole ; giving to both the power of preservation, and the susceptibility of impression, and, from their construction, giving them consequent reci- procal action. This is the matter which principally composes the brain; and where there is a brain, there must necessarily be parts to connect i it with the rest of the body, which are the nerves ; and as the use of I the nerves is to continue, and therefore convey, the impression or action (of the one to the other, these parts of communication must necessarily ; be of the same matter; for any other matter could not continue the same action. From this it may be understood that nothing material is conveyed from the brain by the nerves, nor, vice versd, from the body to the brain; for if that was exactly the case, it would not be necessary for the nerves to be of the same materials with the brain : but as we find the nerves of the same materials, it is a presumptive proof that they only continue the same action which they receive at either end. The blood has as much the materia vitrn as the solids, which keeps up that harmony between them ; and as every part endued with this prin- ciple has a sympathetic affection upon simple contact, so as to affect each other, (which I have called contiguous sympathy,) so the blood and the body are capable of affecting and being affected by each other ; which accounts for that reciprocal influence which each has on the other. The blood being evidently composed of the same materials with the body, being endued with the same living powers, but from its unsettled state * I consider that something similar to the materials of the brain is diffused through the body, and even contained in the blood ; between this and the brain a communica- tion is kept up by the nerves. I have, therefore, adopted terms explanatory of this theory; calling the brain the materia vitae coacervata; the nerves, the chorda; inter- nuncioe ; and that diffused through the body, the materia vitae diffusa. I 2