HORNY EXCRESCENCES OF THE HUMAN BODY. G37 tish Museum, and in one which grew out from the tip of a sheep’s ear ; they are also solid, or nearly so, in their substance. This mode of growth is very different from that of horns, which are all formed upon a core, either of bone or soft parts, by which means they have a cavity in them ; a structure peculiar to this kind of cuti- cular substance. Incysted tumours in different animals would appear, from these obser- vations, to be confined in their production to the cuticular substance, proper to the animal in which they take place; for, although cuticle, hair, nail, hoof, and horn, arc equally productions of animal substance, only differing in trivial circumstances from each other, we do not find in the human subject any instance of an incysted tumour containing a substance different frOm the cuticle, hair, and nails of the human body ; to which last the horny excrescences, the subject of the present Paper’ are certainly very closely allied, both in growth, structure and external appearance; and when ol some length, they are found to be so brittle as to break in two, upon being roughly handled, which could not hap- pen either to hoof or horn. In the sheep they produce wool instead of hair; and in one instance in that animal, where they gave rise to horny excrescence, it was less compact in its texture, and less brittle than similar appearances in the human subject; upon being divided longitudinally, the cut surface had more the appearance of hoof, and was more varied in its colour than nail. Incysted tumours being capable of producing horns, upon the principle we have laid down, is contrary to the usual operations of nature ; for horns are not a production from the cutis,and, although not always form- ed upon a bony core, but frequently upon a soft pulp, that substance differs from common cutis in its appearance, and extends a considerable way into the horn: it is probable, that this pulp requires a particular process for its formation*. I shall conclude this paper by observing, that the cases of horns as they are commonly termed, upon the human head, are no more than cu- ticular productions arising from a cyst, which in its nature is a variety of those tumours described by Mr. Hunter under the general name of cuticular incysted tumours f. A.8heeP'.Rb;Ut f0Ur years 0,d’ llad a large horn, three feet long, growing upon ts flank. It had no connection with bone, and appeared to be only attached to the ex- ternal skin. It dropped off in consequence of its weieht Invim i , rrzt" "Bi * “,ou’ fiiiioe"• '»'•* “Hid, ,i i.„„ t The principle upon which the production of these excrescences depends brin„ explained, the modes of preventing their formation, and removing then, when funned"