154 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. some other muscle ; and when this increased action ceases, the constant and natural contraction of the whole (similar to that of the sphincter) immediately takes place*. Sphincter muscles are the most remarkable instances of this, being always above three parts contracted-)-. The constant and regular degree of contraction in those sphincter muscles, serves the purposes of elasticity, and may have superior advan- tages, as we know that they have a power of relaxing when their elon- gators act, which no elastic substance can have. Hence we see, that where a continued action only is wanted, there is elasticity ; where an al- ternate action and relaxation, there is the action of muscles ; where only an occasional relaxing power is required, there are muscles under cer- tain restrictions ; and where a constant powrer of contraction is neces- sary, but which is occasionally to be overcome by muscles, there are introduced both elasticity and muscular powers, cooperating with each other in their actions. Where constant action is not necessary, muscles alone are employed, as in the greater number of moving parts in most animals; and where any position is required to be constant, and the motion only occasional, from being seldom wanted, there elasticity alone is employed for the purpose of constant position, and muscles for the occasional action J. When a position is to be pretty constant, and yet elastic substances are not employed, we have then muscles endowed with the power of constant contraction to a certain degree, but capable of either relax- ation, or greater contraction, as in the sphincters. We find, therefore, that in many parts of an animal body fitted for motion, a tolerably constant position is necessary, at the same time that an occasional self-moving powrer is also wanted, to serve as a sort of auxiliary to the performance of the necessary action. For such occa- sional actions, muscles, assisted by elastic substances, are employed, the elastic power easing the muscles in the fixed position, and the mus- cular giving the increased occasional action; and in other parts of the body, where a more constant action was wanted, and could not be * As a proof that this is muscular contraction, and not elasticity, we find that the face in a dead body does not keep its natural form, nor resume it when lost. f The parts supplied with sphincters do not contract after being dilated in the dead body, which they certainly would do if the contraction in the living body had arisen from elasticity. ♦ Some bivalves (as the oyster) have a strong muscle passing between the shells for closing them occasionally; but for opening them no muscles are made use of, as this is performed by an elastic ligament in the joint of the two shells, which is squeezed, when shut, by the contraction of the muscle; and when the muscle ceases to contract, the elasticity of the ligament expands it, so that the shell is opened.