GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 23 When blood is received into a cup, and is thereby exposed, it cer- tainly coagulates more readily than when extravasated in the cellular membrane or in the vessels; and on the exposed surface it coagulates more readily than anywhere else, except round the edges of the dish in which it is contained. It has been observed that the upper surface ol the blood coagulates first, forming a thin pellicle, as milk does when near boiling, while underneath it still remains fluid ; but the whole gradually becoming thicker, and losing its transparency, coagulates in about fifteen or twenty minutes into a substance of pretty thick consistence. I he time required will vary according to the quantity of blood in one mass and the disposition of the blood at the time11. We may observe the following appearances when the blood is co- agulated. The coagulum is generally, but not always, swimming in a fluid; for it sometimes happens that the lymph does not squeeze out the serum in the act of coagulation, in which there is an act of contrac- tion. The top of the coagulum is toughest or firmest: and it becomes less and less so towards the bottom, because there is less of the coagu- lating lymph at the bottom, in proportion as the red globules subside in the lymph before it coagulates. The coagulating lymph has a de- gree of toughness in proportion as it is free from serum; for while the serum is mixed within it, though there may be no red globules, it is not very tough ; but when pressed between the finger and thumb, so as to squeeze out the serum, it becomes nearly as tough and elastic as the “ [Coagulation commences in about three or four minutes on an average, and is com- pleted in about ten. In about fifteen or twenty minutes the coagulum assumes a “ pretty thick consistence;” but it continues still further to contract and to express the serum for at least three or four hours, and sometimes much longer. The commencement of this process and the degree in which the clot afterwards contracts are subject to be in- fluenced by a great number of disturbing causes : as, for instance, the shape and mate- rial of the vessel, the state of the system at the time the blood is drawn, the quantity of blood collected together in one mass, the rapidity with which the effusion has taken place, the temperature of the air, the partial or complete exclusion of the atmosphere, rest, agitation, foreign substances, &c. These will be considered in the subsequent notes. The period required for the blood of different animals to coagulate has been esti- mated by Thackrah to be, in general terms, inversely as the size of the animal. Thus, in the horse, coagulation commenced in from 5 to 13 minutes; in the ox, from 2 to 10 ; in the sheep, hog, and rabbit, from % to 2; in the dog, from \ to 3; in the duck, from 1 to 2; in fowls, from \ to 1$; in the mouse, in a moment. (Op. cit., p. 151.) There is also a difference in the time required for blood to coagulate from different vessels of the same animal. Arterial blood has generally been conceived to coagulate more ra- pidly than venous, blood from the vena cava than blood from the jugular vein, and portal blood more readily than either. Thus, while blood from the jugular vein of a dog began to concrete in from 1 f to 3 minutes, blood from the portal vein concreted immediately on effusion.]