FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 279 to the skin by ulceration. Whatever therefore is the step which nature is to take, whenever an injury is done or a necessity for inflammation has taken place, it is performed with readiness and facility in strong constitutions and parts. Weakness of constitution and weakness of parts are supposed to be the immediate cause of most tedious or chronic diseases. It appears to be often used as a general term, as have also nervous, bilious, to denote anything for which we cannot well account, and to which I am certain there has been affixed no precise meaning. Every action that is not acute, especially a mild continuation of some of the symptoms of a former violent disease, is called weakness. Thus a gleet is called a weakness, fluor albus is called a weakness, diarrhoea is called a weak- ness : none of which I conceive simply to arise from weakness, for I believe that weakness seldom or never becomes an immediate cause of disease or action of any kind; but it often becomes the predisposing cause of disease, many diseases not taking place except where weakness is an attendant, as agues, scrofula, nervous, &c., none of which are simple weakness; and it may continue many diseases when they have already taken place. This is, I think, very evident in many diseases which would terminate well if there was strength in the constitution to perform the right actions. However, where there is a strong suscepti- bility for any one disease, in which weakness might also become a pre- disposing cause, I can believe that in such cases weakness, especially if suddenly brought on, may become an immediate cause of that disease : as, for instance, a man may, from a wound or any other cause, have a strong tendency to a locked jaw. If you bleed that man freely it is a thousand to one but that a locked jaw comes on : weakness produces a consciousness of its own want of powers, or incapacity, which produces increased action, that even proceeds the length of unnatural actions, called nervous8. These effects are no less visible in acute diseases in [The author here seems to depart from the definition of strength and weakness given in p. 277. Weakness as opposed to strength should be considered merely as a less degree of energy of all the vital actions, while the balance between them is still equal, the degree of energy being generally in proportion to the vascularity, and activity of the circulation. In this view a weak constitution may be as healthy as a strong one, as in a man and a woman, and probably be even less exposed to attacks of disease; for a watch may last as long as a clock, provided it be taken equal care of, and keep the truest time of the two. W eakness, however, is used in another sense to signify the loss of balance between the vital actions, as in the present paragraph. Thus the loss of blood, by weakening the energy of the circulation without proportionally diminishing the innervation, may predispose to locked jaw ; and probably most predispositions, whether natural or ac- quired, are of this kind.]