54 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. dries quickly; this shows that some part of the juices must have eva- porated from the surface: but let the animal cool before it is skinned or the cavity is opened, and then give it the same degree of heat that it had when alive, you will find, on taking off the skin, no immediate sen- sible evaporation, but the parts so exposed will remain moist. This volatility I conceive therefore to be connected with life, and not with the circulation ; for that is stopped in both cases before the experiment. Whether it is this volatile part that gives the smell that most recently- killed animals have upon being skinned or opened I do not know; but it may be observed that it follows the same rules, for if the animal is allowed to cool it loses this smell, although warmed to the same degree of heat as when alivea. The serum of the blood is sometimes wheyish, and then upon settling it often throws up a white scum like cream. This was most probably first observed in the human blood, but is not peculiar to it. Although these appearances pretty often happen, yet few instances fall under the observation of one man in the common course of bleeding. When they have occurred to myself 1 have made inquiry after the state of health of “ [The halitus, or vapour, which is emitted from fresh-drawn blood, is of this kind, and consists almost exclusively of water holding in solution minute quantities of animal matter and salts, together with a peculiar aromatic principle. It occasionally happens that this effluvium is exalted to a very intense degree, so as to occasion headache, sick- ness, fainting, dysentery, and even death. In suppression of urine it acquires a strong urinous character. Orfila and more recently Barrueil (Ann. d'Hygitne, i. 274, 550. Revue Med., Sept. 1829,) have attempted to establish the possibility of distinguishing the different tribes of animals by the peculiarity of smell disengaged from blood-spots or stains upon the addition of strong sulphuric acid. The odour which exhales is said to resemble strongly the perspiration or respiration of the animal from which the blood is derived, which in men having dark hair and complexions and in carnivorous animals is said to be peculiarly characteristic. M. Leuret, in order to test the accuracy of M. Barrueil’s assertions, sent four specimens in phials containing ox blood, horse blood, and blood from the human subject both male and female. M. Barrueil detected the two former, but in regard to the two latter he mistook the male’s for the female's; a mistake, however, which, under the circumstances, strongly confirmed his own views of the case, for it so happened that the man from whom the blood was taken was fair, whereas the woman had dark hair and was remarkably strong. These statements have been supported by Leuret and Chevallier, and as stoutly denied by Raspail, Villerme, and Soubeyan, so that considerable doubt at present hangs over the subject; and evi- dence founded on these data would not, I apprehend.be admissible in a court of justice on any medico-legal question. (Raspail, Chtm. Organ., p. 383. Ann. des Sc. d’Obser. 1829, il. 183. 465.) Blood-spots on linen clothes or steel instruments may be distinguished from any other marks: 1st, by the evolution of ammonia on dry distillation; 2nd, by the effects of acids and neutral salts on solutions of the colouring matters; 3rd, by the usual tests for albumen; and 4th, by blood scaling off from steel instruments On being heated, and leaving them tolerably clean and free from rust.]