THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 373 of blood to that part. Lessening, therefore, that influx, becomes one mode of relief, for as the vessels dilate, they should not be encouraged in that action. Although the increased influx is to be considered chiefly as an effect, yet it is to be considered as a secondary causea; and from our ignorance of the immediate cause, it is probably only through such secondary causes that we can produce any effect; and upon these prin- ciples most likely rests, in some measure, the method of resolution, for whatever will lessen the power and disposition will also lessen the effect, and possibly these will likewise lessen the force of the circulation. If the inflammation is attended with considerable action and power, as it were, increasing itself, then the modes of resolution are to be put in practice; the one by producing a contraction of the vessels, the other by soothing or lessening irritability, or the action of dilatationb. The first, or contraction of the vessels, is produced in two ways ; one by producing weakness, for weakness excites the action of contraction of the vessels; the other, by such applications as induce the vessels to contract. 1st. The means of producing absolute weakness are bleeding and purging; but the bleeding also produces irritability for a time, and is often attended by a temporary weakness of another kind, viz. sickness. I he inconvenience, however, arising from this practice is, that the sound parts must nearly, in the same proportion, suffer with the inflamed, for by bringing the inflamed part upon a par with health, the sound parts must be brought much lower, so as to be too low. 2nd. The soothing may be produced by sedatives, relaxants, anti-stimulants, etc., such as many sudorifics, anodynes, etc. I he first method will have the greatest, the most permanent, and the most lasting effect, because, if it has any effect at all, the diseased ac • lion cannot be soon renewed. 1 he second will act as an auxiliary, for so far as irritation is a cause this will also lessen it, and the two should go hand in hand ; for wherever we lessen power, we should at the same time lessen the disposition for action, or else we may increase the dis- position ; but neither bleeding, purging, nor sickness can possibly lessen the original inflammatory disposition [Vol. I. 301.], for none of them [This is consistent with Mr. Hunter’s language elsewhere, where he says that he "could conceive a part to inflame, or be in a state of inflammation, although no blood were to pass (p. 325); but it is difficult to imagine the popriety of calling that a cause which is the essential part of the thing intended. Inflammation could not exist, or cer- tainly could not be defined, without taking into account the augmented influx of blood.] [The reader will observe that an hypothesis is involved in this expression which does not appear to be supported by any substantial facts. That vessels presumed to be contractile should yet actively dilate under increased action, seems not only to imply •> contradiction in terms, but to be wholly unsupported by any other consideration.]