449 OF PUS. soon gives us another kind of pus, although this has the poison equally in it; therefore it is not the circumstance of containing a poison which makes it wlmt is called a bad pus, but its being formed from a sore that has no disposition to heal: as we cannot give healing action to a cancer, so we never can have a good pus. The observation respecting the small- pox is applicable to the venereal gonorrhoea, for this complaint having the power of curing itself, its pus is good in proportion to that power; but as the periods of cure are not so determined as in the smallpox, neither is its time in producing good pus so determined; but, like the smallpox, as well as the venereal disease, when it is healing we have good pus, although it contains the poison. From the above experiments it must appear unnecessary to give the chemical analyses of what is commonly called pus, for whatever comes from a sore has that name, although very different in many cases from what I should call true pus; and we shall find in those sores that have ^ome specific quality which hinders them from healing, that the dis- charge is not pus. Probably the chemical properties may be nearly the same in them all. §• 3. Of the Properties of Pits, Pus, in the most perfect state, has at the first view certain peculiar qualities. 'Ihese are principally colour and consistence ; but it appears that the colour takes its rise from the largest portion of the whole mass being composed of very small round bodies, very much like those small round globules which, swimming in a fluid, make cream : I should sup- pose those round globules to be white in themselves, as cream would appear to be, although it is not necessary that the substance of matter which reflects a white should be itself white, for a vast number of trans- parent bodies being brought together will produce a white, such as broken glass, broken ice, water covering globules of air, making froth, &c. These globules swim in a fluid, which we should at first suppose to be the serum of the blood, for it coagulates with heat like serum, and most probably is mixed with a small quantity of coagulating lymph ; for pus in part coagulates, after having been discharged from the secreting vessels, as mucus is observed to do. But although it is thus far similar to serum, yet it has properties that serum has not. Observing there was a similarity between pus and milk, I tried if the fluid part of pus ton e coagulated with the juice of the stomach of other animals, but oun it could not. I then tried it with several mixtures, principally witn the neutral salts, and found that a solution of sal ammoniac coa- VOL. III. O «