153 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. complicated. Elasticity we find to be introduced both as an assistant to the contraction of the muscles, and as an antagonist or elongator ; the natural position being that which is produced by the elasticity. Thus we see elasticity combined with muscular action assisting in the con- traction of muscles on one side, and likewise performing the office of elongators or antagonists on the opposite, by bringing parts which have been moved by muscles back into their natural position. Such parts too as have yielded to the action of some other power, as gravitation, are brought back into what may be called a natural state, and are re- tained there by elasticity, till that power is again overcome by another, as in the necks of some animals. We may hence see that the applica- tion of those powers is twofold; one, where the muscles and elastic substances assist each other; the second, where they are antagonists, the elastic being neither assisted by the muscular parts, nor the mus- cular by the elastic; for many parts of the body are so constructed as to admit of but one kind of muscular action, the other action arising from elasticity alone ; it being necessary that such parts should have a deter- mined or middle state, though not intended as a state of ease. Of this kind are the blood-vessels, trachea, bronchia, the ears of ani- mals, etc., in which, therefore, elasticity is introduced to procure that determined state, and is chiefly employed where the middle state is much limited. For it is to be observed, that the middle state, when produced by muscular action, has not commonly a determined point of rest, but admits of considerable latitude between the two extremes, ex- cept in the sphincters. Where it is produced by elasticity, it is always more determined, provided the elasticity has sufficient power to over- come the natural or accidental resistance; and where that is the case, we must suppose that a state, in some degree determined, was necessary to such parts. But where the elastic power is not sufficient to over- come the natural, or accidental resistance, then it is assisted by the muscular, which forms one of the compounds of the three modes of elongation, instances of which we have in many joints. The relaxed state of a muscle would appear in general to be the most natural; but to this there are exceptions, a degree of contraction ap- pearing natural to some muscles8. The face, for instance, is a part where the action of the muscles on one side influences the position of the parts on the other side, a circum- stance, perhaps, peculiar to the face ; here, therefore, the muscles bring and keep the skin in one position, till altered by an increased action in * [I apprehend that all muscles, without exception, are endued with a tonic power of contraction, but in very different degrees. In the involuntary muscles, as the stomach and heart, it is scarcely at all visible; but it is highly developed in most of the sphincters.]