OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 225 The veins may be said, upon the whole, to accompany the arteries, : and it is most reasonable that this should be the case; since both per- form the same office of conducting the blood, the same course must . answer equally in both. This, however, is not universally the case, • some veins being intended for particular purposes, as the vena porta:; ■ some forming bodies, as the penis, plexus retiformisa, and others varying ! their course for convenience, as in the brain. The veins of this viscus • take in general a very different course from the arteries; but this is prin- (cipally in the larger veins of the brain, for the smaller, which are in the •substance, accompany the arteries. The intention of this seems to be (that the largest veins, called the sinuses, should be so formed as not to ibe compressible, probably that there should be as little chance as pos- • sible of any stoppage to the circulation of the blood in this part. But in some parts of animals they vary their course from the arteries, where we do not so well see the intention, because it is not the case in others. Thus the veins in the kidneys of the cat kind and hyaena have the veins : in part passing along the surface in the external membrane, like the si* ■ nuses in the brain. Veins seldom or ever take a serpentine course, be- cause a retardment in the blood’s motion in them answers no particular j purpose in the (Economy of the parts, and the more readily the blood gets to the heart the better. However, the plexuses, although not intended tto retard the motion of the blood, answer other purposes not immedi- ately connected with the circulation. Veins upon the whole anastomose more frequently than the arteries, especially by their larger trunks, and more particularly in the extremi- ties ; for we often see a canal of communication going between two trunks, and one trunk shall divide into two and then unite again. Where the veins and the arteries correspond, their anastomoses are nearly the same. I believe they do not anastomose in the lungs or liver ; however, the veins corresponding to the arteries do not always follow this rule ; for the veins in the spleen and kidneys anastomose in very large trunks, while the arteries do not at all. This anastomosing of the larger veins more frequently is because a vein is easily compressed and the blood has a ready passage into another; besides, the valves ren - der it more necessary, for when the blood has got past a valve it cannot take a retrograde course, but may take a lateral: and indeed it is prin- * [See Vol. I. p. 251, note. There can scarcely be any doubt that all the pheno- mena exhibited by the erectile tissues are due to the extreme extensibility of the venous tunics.] VOL. ill. Q