OF tills TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 55.5 bruin, it is most probable that I did no good by iny opening ; 'but that I could not foresee. An officer received a wound by a ball in the cheek (which in this case was on the opposite side) ; the wmund led backwards, as iu the other; by putting my finger into the wound I felt the coronoid process of the lower jaw, as in the former; but he had no symptoms of an in- jured brain; I therefore advised not to open it, because the reason for opening in the preceding case did not exist here; my advice was com- plied with, and the wound did well, and rather better than the former, by healing sooner. The ball was never found, so far as I know. The present practice is not to regard the balls themselves, and seldom or ever to dilate upon their account, nor even to search much after them when the wound is dilated, which shows that opening is not ne- cessary, or at least not made upon account of extraneous bodies. This practice has arisen from experience ; for it was found that balls, when obliged to be left, seldom or ever did any harm when at rest, and when not in a vital part; for balls have been known to lie in the body for years, and are often never found at all, and yet the person has found no inconvenience. This knowledge of the want of power in balls to pro- mote inflammation when left in the body, arose from the difficulty, of finding them, or extracting them when found, and therefore in many cases they were obliged to leave them. One reason for not readily finding the ball at first is, because the parts are only torn and divided, without any loss of substance (till the slough comes off), by which means the parts collapse and fall into their places again, which makes it difficult to pass anything in the direction of the ball, or even to know' its direction. The different courses they take, by being turned aside by some resisting body, add also to the difficulty, as will be explained. But the course of a ball, if not perpendicular, but passing obliquely and not very deep a little way under the skin, probably an inch or more, is easy to be traced through its whole course, for the skin over the whole passage of the ball generally is marked by a reddish line. I have seen this redness, even when the ball has gone pretty deep; it has none of the appearances of inflammation, nor of extravasation, for extravasation i» of a darker colour, and what it is owing to I have not been able to discover. I can conceive it to be something similar to a blush, only the small vessels allowing the red particles of the blood to flow more easily.