OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 435 J-rom the same mode of reasoning it should he exactly the same, whether the fever produce suppuration in a vital part or in one that is not vital. It is much more easy to conceive that an injury done to a vital part shall be the cause of universal sympathy, than that a vital part should require more fever to make it inflame and suppurate than a part does which is not vital. This theory would at once overset our obser- vation that the constitution is affected or sympathizes more readily with some parts than with others. In many cases of spontaneous inflam- mations and suppurations it was natural to suppose that the fever was the cause of the suppuration; but if persons who thought so had ob- served accurately, they would have divided spontaneous suppurations into two kinds; one, whose remote and immediate cause was local, and therefore in such the fever followed the load action, as [happens] in injuries ; the other, where the remote cause was fever, which produced ic injury, and the injury, whatever it was, produced the inflammation and suppuration; so that here fever preceded, and was necessary for the remote cause, but not as the immediate; and indeed, as a proof of thi« suppuration hardly takes place till the fever is gone*. The smallpox of this last kind, as probably many other contagious diseases. - . , s>'ml,toms continue- more or less, according to the decree of injury, the nature and situation of parts, and the constitution; but as they arise from a local cause, which subsides, they of course subside also • mwever, as the constitution has often an inflammatory tendency or a endency to some other disease, besides the action arising from the vio- lence singly, the parts often run into it, and this is reflected upon the constitution, which passes into that action to which it has a tendency by which fever ,s kept up, and thereby inflammation. ’ I he subsiding of these symptoms is the cure; and where they are simply the effects of the violence, the fever cures itself; therefore the °my thing necessary is to lessen its violence; but if the injury is of any specific kind, that specific quality must be corrected, if possible, and then the cure will take place. As the motion of the blood in the whole system is increased, and as ■ . T* 1 2'“<m s"l>Pose it is locally increased, then what will dimi. nish the motton of the blood will relieve in this respect. There arc two T ffett 1 i n T' The fa‘ " ',y h‘king off iU fur“. «*«• this will effected by bleeding. This, if it docs not lessen its motion, or take V8.'!''1' a|>p,th“d tile fever I* suppo.od o> induce a 2 f 2