TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 394 action of the sympathizer here is similar to the action of the part of ap- plication. Remote sympathy is seldom if ever produced by a similarity of action in similar parts, but most probably cures by dissimilar modes of action in the two parts, and therefore might be called dissimilar sym- pathy, viz. by stimulating the part of application in such a way that the sympathizer shall act in the same way as if the real application of cure was made to it, and yet the mode of action of the part of application shall not be at all similar to the sympathizer. I can even suppose a local disease cured by sympathy, and by that medicine which would increase it, if applied immediately to it. Let us suppose, for example, any dis- eased mode of action, and that this mode could be increased by some irritating medicine, if applied [directly] to it; but apply this irritator to some other part which this diseased part sympathizes with, and [sup- pose] that the sympathetic act in the diseased part shall be the same as if its [proper] curative medicine was applied to it,—similar [in short] to what would have taken place if its specific irritator was applied,—then, in such a case the medicine would cure by sympathy, although it would increase the disease if applied locally, or have no effect at all. The contiguous sympathy is where it would appear to act from the approximation of dissimilar parts, and therefore is not continued sym- pathy ; neither can it be called remote sympathy, as there appears to be no specific connexion, but to arise entirely from contiguity or approxi- mation of parts. Of this kind are blisters on the head, curing head- ache ; on the chest, curing pains in the chest; to the pit of the stomach, to cure irritations there ; to the belly, to cure complaints of the bowels. The applications which act by contiguous sympathy are only those which can be applied to the nearest surface to that which is inflamed, when the inflamed part beyond this surface becomes affected in some degree similar to the part of application, such as the applications to the eye- lids, when the inflammation is in the eye; to the scrotum, when it is in the testicle ; to the abdomen, when some of the bowels are inflamed ; to the thorax, in inflammations of the lungs, etc. These may be either of the specific, stimulating, or soothing kinds,—something which affects the parts in such a manner as that a remote diseased action ceases. It may be specific, as opium applied to the pit of the stomach curing an irritation of that viscus; stimulating, as blisters to cure inflammation in the subjacent viscera, as has been mentioned; soothing, as fomentations to the abdomen to relieve complaints in the bowels. Derivation means a cessation of action in one part, in consequence of an action having taken place in another; and when this is a cessation of a diseased action, then a cure of that action in the original part may be said to be performed ; this cure was brought into use from the idea