TIIE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 4GI to its nourishment, and also answer many other purposes; so that the action of absorbing foreign matter is extremely extensive, for besides its salutary effects, it is often the cause of a thousand diseases, especially from poisons, none of which are to my present purpose. In the second of these views we are to consider them as removing parts of the body itself, in which they may be viewed in two lights. The first is, where only a wasting is produced in the whole machine or part, such as in the wasting of the whole body from an atrophy; or of a part, as in the wasting of the muscles of the leg, etc. from some in- jury done to some nerve, tendinous part, or joint, all of which I call in- terstitial absorption, because it is removing parts of the body out of the interstices of that part which remains, leaving the part still as a perfect whole*. But this mode is often carried further than simply wasting of the part; it is often continued till not a vestige is left, such as the total decay of a testicle, so that the interstitial absorption might be under- stood in two senses. The second is, where they are removing whole parts of the body. Ibis may be divided into the natural and the diseased f. In the natu- ral they are to be considered as the modellers of the original construc- tion of the body; and if we were to consider them fully in this view we should find that no alteration can take place in the original formation of many of the parts, either in the natural growth, or that formation arising from disease, in which the absorbents are not in action, and take not a considerable part: this absorption I shall call modelling absorp- tion. If I were to consider their powers in this light, it would lead me into a vast variety of effects, as extensive as any principle in the animal ceconomy, for a bone cannot be formed without it, nor probably many other parts. A part which was of use in one stage of life, but which becomes entirely useless in another, is thus removed. This is evident in many animals; the thymus gland is removed; the ductus arteriosus, and the membrana pupillaris are removed. This process is, perhaps, more remarkable in the changes of the insect than in any other known animal. Absorption in consequence of disease is the power of removing com- plete parts of the body, and is in its operation somewhat similar to the first of this division, or modelling process, but very different in the in- tention, and therefore in its ultimate effects. This process of removing whole parts in consequence of disease in some cases produces effects which are not similar to one another; one of these is a sore or ulcer, and * This mode of absorption has always been allowed or supposed, whether performed by the lymphatic veins or lymphatics. t riicse uses I claim as iny own discovery. I have taught them publicly ever since the year 1772.