GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD, 134 have been of the same temperature, because the warmer any body is, the faster it will lose its heat to any neighbouring colder body ; yet I be- lieve that the coagulated blood lost its heat faster than the fluid blood. To see whether a stimulus can be applied to the blood, so as to make it coagulate faster than it does naturally, I desired the following expe- 3 riment to be made : Three ounces of blood were taken from a boy about ten years of age, 1 and immediately after the cup was put into water heated to 150°. A f similar quantity was taken in another cup from the same boy, at the same time, which was put into water heated only to 48°. The first co- ; agulated completely in five minutes, but the latter remained quite fluid for twenty minutes, and then began to coagulate, but was not com- pletely coagulated for five minutes more. When looking at each por- tion of blood an hour afterwards, it appeared that the blood which coagulated in the warmest manner had the greatest proportion of serum, and the least of crassamentum ; but by next morning the serum in each was equal in quantity, and the crassamentum of equal size. This experiment shows that heat above the natural standard acts as stimulus upon the blood, and makes it coagulate considerably sooner than cold does, though not more firmly. This heat did not act as heat upon the blood, but only as the stimulus; for heat acting as heat would also have coagulated the serum, which was not the case. This experiment, or a similar one, is brought forwards as one of the proofs of the living principle of the blood, where it is contrasted with a similar experiment on living muscles. To see whether blood, when mixed with different substances in strong solution, and which appeared to prevent coagulation, would, when di- luted with water, admit of coagulation : In December half an ounce of blood, immediately after it was taken from the arm, was mixed with one pound of water. This was intended as a standard to judge of the others. More blood was taken from the same person at the same time, to which a strong solution of Glauber’s salts [sodse sulphas] was added; this altered its colour to a florid red, and was found to prevent it from coagulating. A strong solution of Glau- ber’s salts, therefore, has the power of preventing the coagulation of the blood. Ten minutes after this mixture half an ounce of it was mixed with one pound of water; half an hour after, another half ounce was ^ mixed with one pound of water; at the end of an hour the same was ■* done, and also after two hours : all these were allowed to stand twenty- four hours, when the pure blood and water had deposited a considerable