182 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. in the foetal state of this class of animals the two ventricles and the two large arteries are equal in strength. Indeed, from reasoning we should expect this, and even that the right ventricle should rather be the strongest, for at this period it sends the blood to the lower extremities; but since both the arteries unite into one canal, we must suppose it to be necessary that the velocities of the blood in both should be equal; and upon examination we find the two ventricles to be nearly equal in thickness in this young state of the animal. The mixed kind of heart, as that of the turtle, &c., is under the same predicament. The two ventricles are to be considered as joint agents in the circulation; and as the pulmonary artery and aorta are equally strong, it becomes a proof that the strength of the heart must be equal everywhere. If we were to estimate the strength of the ventricles in those pos- sessed of four cavities, by the strength of the aorta and pulmonary ar- teries, either by their absolute strength or elasticity, we might come pretty near the truth. Dr. Hales made an experiment on ahorse to ascertain the strength of the arteries, which gives us the power of the left ventricle ; but all this explains nothing, for its power is equal to the use wanted. The power of contraction of the ventricle must be within the strength of the artery; but it is hardly possible to ascertain what is the strength of an artery; nor, if we could, would it enable us to ascertain the strength of the ventricle, for the force of the heart is in part immedi- ately lost by the blood being allowed to pass on, although not so freely as if the artery was open at the other end : in proportion, therefore, to the retardment, the artery is affected. We can ascertain the elastic power of a given section of an artery, and also its absolute strength; but we are not acquainted with the size of a section that will give the strength of the artery to which it belonged W'hen the whole w-as in a perfect state or form. Exp. 1. A section of a sound aorta, close to the valves, three quar- ters of an inch long, was stretched transversely to its greatest extent, which state was ascertained by measuring it with a pair of compasses, and the artery was allow'ed to contract. The w'eiglit required to stretch it again to the same degree was one pound ten ounces. To break the artery required ten pounds and a quarter. Exp. 2. A section of the pulmonary artery, similar to the former in length and situation, required six ounces two drachms to stretch it to its full extent. To break it required eleven pounds three quarters. The use of this viscus is in general very well known ; however, its use has been frequently supposed to be more universal than it really is-