128 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. would resist putrefaction longest. By the fourth day, that without buff was putrefied ; but the blood with the inflammatory crust did not putrefy - exceedingly loose. Cold acts as a sedative to the whole system, and if its action is suf- ’ ficiently prolonged extinguishes life; but its action on the coagulation of the blood is precisely analogous, retarding or altogether preventing this act, in proportion to its in- ’ tensity and continuance. 3rd. In all vegetables and animals, particularly those which are high in the zoologi- , cal scale, there is a disposition to maintain a uniform temperature. Thus “ blood taken from the arm in the most intense cold that the human body can bear, raises the ther- mometer to the same [or nearly the same] height as blood taken in the most sultry heat” Thus also fresh blood is slower in parting with its heat than other fluids of a similar consistency and specific gravity, even before coagulation. 4th. The analogy of heat is not so well marked as that of cold, yet the blood resists any considerable increase of temperature, which is seldom found to exceed by more than 3° or 4° that of the standard. Again, “ Heat has the power of exciting action in an animal ; and we find that heat even increases the action of coagulation.” Thus also the muscles of cold-blooded animals are rendered perfectly rigid by being immersed in a fluid at a temperature not exceeding that of the human blood, while a similar effect is produced on the muscles of warm-blooded animals when immersed in a fluid at 125°, or if a fluid of this temperature be injected into the vessels ; but as the effects of heat on the blood are precisely similar, it is reasonable to presume that they are analogous phe- nomena, and depend on the same cause. 5th. Notwithstanding that the blood is constantly in a temperature the most favourable possible to putrefaction, yet, like the egg in the process of incubation, it resists every approach to this state; and even out of the body it undergoes no decomposition for se- veral days, but, like the muscles of the body, continues still further to contract. In pro- portion as the body is strong, so is the period during which the blood continues to con- tract and remain sweet prolonged ; but in diseases characterized with great debility, it speedily runs into the putrefactive state. Thus blood from old and infirm persons uni- formly began to putrefy two or three days sooner than that from young and strong per- sons. Blood which had been violently agitated putrefied three days sooner than blood from the same person allowed to remain in perfect repose; which may be compared to the effect of hard running on the solids. So also blood which was first frozen at a tem- perature of zero, and then heated to 126°, putrefied three days sooner than another por- tion which was not meddled with. But as muscles exhibit exactly the same phenomena under the same circumstances, it is reasonable to suppose that they both depend on the same cause. Cth. Sir Charles Scudamore found that when animals were killed by the discharge of an electric battery, the temperature of the whole body was exalted precisely in the same manner as has been observed in regard to the blood. Caldwell also found that the blood, subjected to very powerful shocks of electricity, was five times longer in coagulating than blood allowed to coagulate in the natural way ; and after all it only coagulated imperfectly: effects which exactly correspond with those produced by electrical shocks on the muscular tissue. 7 th. The effects of stimulants and sedatives on the blood and muscular fibre exhibit an- other train of analogies. Thus heat, electricity, exposure to air, motion, and very small proportions of salt and other extraneous substances, all hasten coagulation, and excite muscular contraction. “ The blood,” Mr. Hunter says, “ coagulates from exposure as certainly as the cavity of the thorax or abdomen inflames from the same cause.” Many observers have professed to have remarked a manifest contraction of the clot on the ap- plication of salt (Stevens, p. 132.) or galvanism (Reil's ArchivfVr die Phtjs., x. 417 ; and