516 EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION, AND ITS such weakness at last as to destroy itself: we shall even see the sym- ptoms or consequences of disease get well before death. A gentlewoman, who was above seventy-five, was anasarcous all over; the abdomen was very full and large ; she made but very little water; her breathing was so difficult as to make her purple in the face, so that most probably there was water in the chest; her pulse was extremely irregular, fluttering, trembling, intermitting, and small. Her legs were punctured with a lancet, and discharged very freely for more than three weeks, which emptied the cellular membrane of the body, as well as in some degree the abdomen ; the breathing became free and easy, so that we supposed the water in the chest was absorbed; the pulse became regular, soft, and fuller, and the appetite in some degree mended; in which state she seemed free from disease, having only some of the con- sequences still remaining: the quantity of urine increased to the natu- ral quantity; but, notwithstanding actual disease seemed to be gone, yet she became weaker and weaker, in which state she existed for near a month, and died. Some days prior to death a purple and then a livid appearance came upon the legs, with some spots of extravasated blood above where the punctures had been made, on which blisters arose, at first filled with serum, then with bloody serum, all of them threatening mortification. Even wffien in the state of approaching death we often find a soft, quiet, and regular pulse, having not the least degree of irritability in it, and this when there is every other sign of approaching death, such as entire loss of appetite, no rest, hiccup, the feet cold, and partial cold, clammy sweats, &c. A lady appeared to have lost all diseased action, only the consequences of disease remaining, viz. weakness, with swelled legs: she made little or no water; at length she became so weak as hardly to articulate ; she lay in a kind of doze, was only roused to impression, and only took food by spoonfuls when desired ; the pulse so small as hardly to be felt. Her extremities were cold, and she had all the signs of approaching dissolu- tion, which took place; yet w'ithin thirty-six hours before she died, the whole water in her legs and thighs was taken up, her urine increased, and about ten hours previous to her death, the legs, &c. were as small as ever. As I consider the dropsy to be a disease, and not simply weak- ness, which tills case w'ould in some measure show from the result, I should wish to ask whether the absorption of water was not owing to the disease being gone ? and whether the disease being gone, the absorb- ents did not set to work ? If so, then dissolution may be a cessation of disease, and persons die of weakness simply ; or simply either the want