ON LOOSE CARTILAGES IN JOINTS. 625 SOME OBSERVATIONS ON THE LOOSE CARTILAGES FOUND IN JOINTS, AND MOST COMMONLY MET WITH IN THAT OF THE KNEE. By Sir Everard Home, Bart., from Materials furnished by Mr. Hunter. [From the Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge, Vol. I. p. 229. 1793.] Such detached and moveable cartilages as are the subject of the fol- lowing observations, are not peculiar to the joint of the knee; they oc- casionally occur in other joints of the body ; but. as they are most fre- quently met with in the knee, and it is in that joint they produce sym- ptoms which render them the object of a chirurgical operation, I shall consider them more particularly when situated in that cavity. These substances in their structure are analogous to bone, but in their external appearance bear a greater resemblance to cartilage ; they are not, however, always exactly of the same structure, being in’some instances softer than in others. Their external surface is smooth and polished, which, being lubricated by the synovia, allows them to be moved readily from one part of the joint to another, seldom remaining ong at rest, while the limb is in motion; when they happen to be in such situations as to be pressed upon with force by the different parts of the joint, they occasion considerable pain, and materially interfere with its necessary motions. I he circumstance of their being loose, and having no remains of a vi- sible attachment, made it difficult to form conjectures respecting their formation ; and I believe that no satisfactory account of their origin had een given, till Mr. Hunter's observations threw light upon the subject. The circumstances which led him to the investigation of this subject .Malta"' “l “ fcreiB" “■ ‘he *”*"■ ttat In the course of his experiments and observations, instituted with a view to establish a living principle in the blood, Mr. Hunter was natu- ral y induced to attend to the phsenomena which took place when that fluid was extravasated, whether in consequence of accidental violence or other circumstances. The find change which took place he found* 2s