131 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. To see whether the blood in a young person or an old one become tooncst putrid, I desired that the following trials should be made: ■ tself; that is, blood sympathizes with blood in the same manner as the solid parts of :he body sympathize with one another. 12. As I have already adverted {note, p. 6.1.) to the volvular or rotary motion of the globules of the blood, I shall here only add further, that were this property clearly jroved to belong exclusively to the products of organization, it would constitute in itself i sufficient and convincing proof of the vitality of the blood. The researches of Schultz, Oollinger, and more recently those of Dr. Alison (Supplement to Physiology, p. 18.), are ,'ull on this point, and seem at least to render it extremely probable that the globules if the blood are endowed with vital attractions and repulsions, distinct from any mo- don impressed on them by the living solids; that, in fact, the blood possesses all the .properties of self-motion enjoyed by the solids. To the same head may be referred the adherence of the coloured external tunics of the globules to their central nuclei, which is uniformly found to be strong in proportion as the strength and health of the animal is perfect. The repulsion also which exists among the globules themselves, by which their ndividuality is preserved, and their diffusion through the whole mass effected, can only be explained on the same principle. 13. The blood is the first part which is formed in the embryo, being, in fact, the primordial rudiment to which the principle of life is attached, and from which, by suc- : ;essivc elaborations, the various solids of the body are formed. This is one of Harvey’s :hief arguments, who denominates it the “particula genitalis prima,” the “pars primi- igenia corporis,” the “ primum vivens et ultimo moriens” of animals. 14. Allied to the last argument is that of Hunter: “ The blood preserves life in the different parts of the body. When the nerves going to a part are tied or cut, the part '.oecomes paralytic, and loses all power of action ; but it does not mortify. If the artery the cut, the part dies, and mortification ensues No part of the body is to be consi- dered as a complete living substance, producing and continuing life, without the blood. | It is not clear to me whether the blood dies sooner without the body, or the body • without the blood Every part is formed from the blood, and if it has not life pre- viously to this operation, it must acquire it in the act of forming.” Thus, the vascu- larity of a part is the measure of its vitality, and the extraordinary exercise of any func- tion necessitates an extraordinary supply of blood. But it may be argued that the blood is no otherwise necessary to life than food is necessary: both are essential; but both may equally be regarded as simple aliments, on which the organization of the body operates so as to convert them into living structures. In continuation of the same argument, Mr. Hunter further says,“ The blood has motion ; in a circle, in which circle it is in one view supersaturated, as it were, with living powers, ! and in another is deficient, having parted with them while it visited the different parts of the body.” Dr. Davy consequently asks, whether we are to regard the circulation as “a perpetual miracle, in which material particles are, without cessation, dying and reviving” ? But how does Dr. Davy know that the venous blood is dead ? It is plain also that the same question might with equal force be asked respecting the whole body, which cannot subsist without a continual supply of fresh blood; the solids require fresh blood as much as the blood requires fresh air, in order to continue life, so that a something is acquired in both cases, and that something is essential to life, or at least to its continuance. 15. “ If the blood had not the living principle, it would be in respect of the body as an extraneous substance” ; wounds would not unite as they do, by the first intention, because the coagulated blood would have first to be thrown off as a foreign body, by suppura- te 2