106 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. circumstances are not inseparable. It is within these fifty years only that the callus of bones has been allowed to be alive *; but I shall en- deavour to show, that organization and life do not depend in the least on each other; that organization may arise out of living parts, and produce action; but that life never can arise out of, or depend on, organization. An organ is a peculiar conformation of matter (let that matter be what it may), to answer some purpose, the operation of which is mechanical: but mere organization can do nothing even in mechanics; it must still have something corresponding to a living principle, namely, some power. I had long suspected that the principle of life was not wholly confined to animals, or animal substances endowed with visible organi- zation and spontaneous motion : I conceived that the same principle existed in animal substances devoid of apparent organization and mo- tion, where there existed simply the power of preservation. I was led to this notion about the year 1755 or 1756, when I was making drawings of the growth of the chick in the process of incubation. I then observed, that whenever an egg was hatched, the yolk (which is not diminished in the time of incubation,) was always perfectly sweet to the very last; and that part of the albumen, which is not expended on the growth of the animal, some days before hatching, was also sweet, although both were kept in a heat of 103° in the hen’s egg for three weeks, and in the duck’s for four. I observed, however, that if an egg did not hatch, it became putrid in nearly the same time with any other dead animal matter; an egg, therefore, must have the power of self- preservation, or in other words, the simple principle of life. To deter- mine how far eggs would stand other tests, to prove a living principle, I made the following experimentsf. Having put a new-laid egg into a cold about 0, which froze it, I then allowed it to thaw; from this process I imagined that the preserving powers of the egg might be destroyed J. I next put this egg into the cold mixture, and with it one newly laid ; the difference in freezing was minutes, the fresh egg taking so much longer time in freezing. A new laid egg was put into a cold atmosphere, fluctuating between 17° and 15°; it took above half an hour to freeze ; but when thawed, and put into an atmosphere at 25°, viz. nine degrees warmer, it froze in half the * Dr. Hunter was the first who showed callus to be endowed with the principle of life, as much as bone. •f Phil. Trans, xlviii. pp. 28, 29 ; also Obs. on certain Parts of the Animal (Economy, 1st edit., p. 106; and vol. iv. of the present edition. | However this was at first not so certain ; but the result of the experiment proved it was so. To be more certain of killing a part by freezing it, I helieve it should be frozen very slowly, for simple Ireeziug docs not kill.