OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 186 receive a large quantity of blood from the heart in any given time. The breathing does not correspond with the frequency of the pulsations, as in the former instance; yet it is possible that nearly the same quan- tity of blood may pass as when in health, the velocity in the contracted state of the heart and vessels making up for the increased size of the artery. That it moves faster in such state of vessels is, I think, pro- bable ; for in bleeding, the blood in the veins during such a state of vessels is commonly more florid. Observations upon the heart’s motion while under the influence of artificial breathing. 1. I observed that the auricles contracted but very little, so that they did not nearly empty themselves. 2. That the ventricles were not turgid at the time of their diastole, for I could feel them soft, and could easily compress them. 3. That the ventricles became hard at the time of their systole. 4. That the heart, when it ceased to act, became nearly twice as large as when acting, and that it recovered its small size again whenever it began to act®. Observations on the above appearances.—From the first observation, it would appear that the auricles are only reservoirs, capable of holding a much larger quantity than is necessary for filling the ventricles at any one time, in order that the ventricles may always have blood ready to » [I subjoin the following extract from my friend Dr. Hope’s Treatise on Diseases of the Heart, p. 28, which places this subject in a clear point of view. The experiments from which the following conclusions were drawn were performed on an ass, and at- tested by competent witnesses: “ Of the Motions of the Heart. 1. “ The auricles contract so immediately before the ventricles, that the one motion is propagated into the other, almost as if by continuity of action; yet the motion is not so quick that it cannot readily be traced by the eye. 2. “ The extent of the auricular contraction is very inconsiderable, probably not amounting to one third of its volume. Hence the quantity of blood expelled by it into the ventricle is much less than its capacity would indicate. 3. “ The ventricular contraction is the cause of the impulse against the side; first, because the auricular contraction is too inconsiderable to be capable of producing it; se- condly, because the impulse occurs after the auricular contraction, and simultaneously with the ventricular, as ascertained by the sight and touch; thirdly, because the impulse coincides with the pulse so accurately as not to admit of being ascribed to any but the same cause. 4. “ It is the apex of the heart which strikes the ribs. 5. “ The ventricular contraction commences suddenly; but it is prolonged until an instant before the second sound, which instant is occupied by the ventricular diastole. 6. “ The ventricles do not appear ever to empty themselves completely. 7. “The systole is followed by a diastole, which is an instantaneous motion, accom-