GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 136 to which were added two ounces of water, as in the former experiment. Two ounces more were mixed with two ounces of the decoction of bark. After twelve minutes, the two first were coagulated, and the coagula were equally firm; after fourteen minutes, that with the decoction of bark coagulated, but the coagulum was very loose. Upon comparing the three coagula next day, that which had the decoction of bark mixed with it was by much the least firm. This experiment was repeated, and the result was nearly the same; J and it shows that even putting equal parts of water and blood together did not alter the time or the firmness of coagulation, but that the decoc- ^ tion of bark evidently did \ Some blood was taken from the arm into a bason, stirred, and then mixed with different infusions, as follows: Two ounces were mixed with the same quantity of the infusion of co- lumba root; two ounces with the same quantity of the infusion of gen- < tian ; two more with two ounces of the watery solution of opium; and two ounces were kept in a vessel by themselves. The blood which had been mixed with the bitter infusions, and the simple blood, all coagu- lated at the same time, viz. in six minutes; but that which had been mixed with the infusion of gentian was firmer than with the infusion of columba root, but was not more firm than the coagulum of the simple blood. The blood which had been mixed with the solution of opium did not coagulate for twelve minutes, and then the coagulum was very loose. This experiment with the opium was repeated, and the result was ex- actly the same. Of extraneous matter in the blood.—Whatever is dissolved in the blood must be only diffused through it, not chemically combined with it, other- wise the nature of the blood itself would be altered, and the effect of medicine destroyed. The blood can receive and retain extraneous mat- ter, capable of destroying the solids, by stimulating to action so as to destroy them • [Scudamore obtained a different result. In two experiments in which three or four ' parts of water at 80° were mixed with fresh-drawn blood, coagulation was retarded till i nine and fourteen minutes, acquiring then only the consistence of a tremulous jelly i j whereas similar portions of the same blood, to which no water was added, coagulated > firmly in five ! (Op. cit., p. 38.) The effect of water, however, on coagulation depends 1 on the quantity employed: equal parts, and all proportions under that, were uniformly J found to hasten coagulation, although thirty or forty parts of water retarded the depo- I sition of the fibrin at least a full hour. (Prater, pp. 17. 80.) When considerable quan- I titles of water are employed, it is probable that coagulation is delayed by the coagulating y particles being removed to a greater distance from each other.] b See vol. i. p. 355, note.