12 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOO". and appearances of the blood have been more attended to in diseases, especially of the inflammatory kind, than in full health, as it is more expressive of disease when removed from the body than any of the so- lids, and undergoes changes which the solids do not. Some of these changes are produced by the separation of parts from one another; but as the body is seldom in perfect health, we can hardly procure the blood in the same state twice from one person, although it may not be sensi- bly diseased. In a history of the blood these varieties must be men- tioned, although they are often slighter appearances of what we find in disease; for disease certainly throws great light on the natural history of the blood, and the apparent changes which it undergoes must have unavoidably called medical men to consider it with attention. The only knowledge, however, we have of any difference in the blood, arises from these varieties in its spontaneous changes when extrava- sateda; nor do these differences appear always to affect the real nature of the blood, as the animals often continue in health while they are going on. that fatness and leanness depend on a want of balance between the waste and supply, the waste being principally occasioned by an acceleration of the vascular actions, and the more rapid interchange which thence ensues in the molecular particles of the body. This is seen in caterpillars, in young and growing animals, and in birds, as contrasted with amphibia, adults, and animals of the tardigrade species. The former require a continual supply of food to replace the effete matter, while the latter are enabled to sustain hunger for a long time without injury. Thus hybernating animals retain their fatness during the whole period of their torpidity. Dr. Stevens mentions having seen a rattlesnake as fat after nine months’ complete abstinence from food as at the first; and Professor Blumenbach has mentioned similar examples, of a still more remarkable kind. Fevers, on the other hand, rapidly emaciate the body, because in them the sup- ply is cut off at the same time that the waste from excessive action is increased. Thus, also, persons of active minds and bodies are seldom observed to grow fat. Women grow thin during the period of utero-gestation, and animals during the period of the rut. The uses of fat probably are to preserve symmetry and warmth, consequently in man and the cetaceous tribes it serves as a substitute for external clothing.] a [The progress of modern chemistry has not only enabled the pathologist to detect many diseased states of the blood which were perfectly unknown in the time of Hunter (see note, Vol. I. p. 352), but has enabled the physiologist also to pursue his investigations on entirely a new tack, from which the greatest acquisitions to science may be expected to accrue. In order, however, that the alliance of chemistry with physiology may be really rendered useful, it is important to bear in mind that the object of the chemico- physiologist should be not so much to discover the modes in which the vital principle operates, as the results which those operations give rise to, so as to be able to trace their dependence on one another, or the relation in which they stand, as cause and effect. This can only be done by the most scrupulous and exact analyses of the animal fluids, and particularly of the blood, as the point lie depart from whence all the others proceed. Hunter did not altogether reject these aids, although, from the state of organic chemis- try at the time that this treatise was written, he was little disposed to place reliance on the results which it afforded.]