OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 198 be the antagonist of the arteries; while the veins are much more pas- sive, being principally employed in returning the blood to the heart. It is probable that every part of the body is equally vascular, although they may not all have equal quantities of blood passing through them, which must arise from the smallness of the vessels, and not from their being fewer in number. When we say that a part is very vascular, we can only mean that it is visibly so, by having a large vessel or vessels going to it, and ramifying in it; from which circumstance it contains a certain proportion of red blood, rendering the vessels visible, which may also easily be made conspicuous by injections. Where the ves- sels are smaller this is not the case. When we say, therefore, that a part is not vascular, we mean it is not visibly so; but still we must suppose such parts to be equally vascular, so far as respects their (eco- nomy within themselves; but in such parts I conceive the blood to be more languid in its motion. Many parts appear to be much more vas- cular than they really are, from their vessels dividing and anastomosing, and taking a winding course before they terminate * ; for it is by the number of terminations of an artery in a given space that a part is made vascular or not vascular : muscles appear to be more vascular than they really are. When parts have another use, in which blood furnishes the materials to be disposed of, as in secretion and respiration, where vessels fitted for such purposes are superadded, then parts become pro- portionably more vascular. When blood does not seem to be the mat- ter to be disposed of, yet, if there are other operations continually carried on in a part, besides its simple support, as in a muscle, which has both the power of contraction and considerable sensation, &c., then the vessels are larger, and of course appear in great numbers. This is evident in the living body, for if a muscle is hardly allowed to act, its vessels become small, and it becomes pale; but if thrown into more violent action for a continuance, it becomes red: we cannot here sup- pose an increase of vessels, but only an increase of size. Thus we have parts vascular in proportion to the quantity of action they are capable • By simply cutting into the spermatic artery [chord ?] of a bull it appears to be ex- tremely vascular, though, according to our idea of vascularity, it is as little so as any part. added two other terminations to the arteries, viz. the exhalant and excreting vessels; especially as in the liver, kidneys, and some other glands, injections may be made to pass from the arteries or veins into the excretory ducts. I am not aware, however, of any single fact to show that there is more reason in favour of the exhalant and excret- ing vessels of Bichat than of the lateral porosities of Mascagni. This doctrine may be true, or it may not be true; but it certainly cannot be recognised at present as one of the undoubted facts of science. The same may be said of the “ workers, or labourers, of Mr. Hunter.]