ON LOOSE CARTILAGES IN JOINTS. 626 be coagulation ; and the coagulum thus formed, if in contact with living paits, did not produce an irritation similar to extraneous matter, nor was it absorbed and taken back into the constitution, but in many in- stances preserved its living principle, and became vascular, receiving branches from the neighbouring blood-vessels for its support; it after- wards underwent changes, rendering it similar to the parts to which it was attached, and which supplied it with nourishment. In attending to cases of this kind, he found that where a coagulura adhered to a surface, which varied its position, adapting it to the motions of some other part, the attachment was necessarily diminished by the friction, rendering it in some instances pendulous, and in others break- ing it off entirely. lo illustrate this by an example, I shall mention an instance which occurred in the examination of a dead body. The ca- vity of the abdomen was opened, to examine the state of its contents, and there appeared lying upon the peritoneum a small portion of red blood, recently coagulated ; this, upon examination, was found connect- ed to the surface upon which it had been deposited, by an attachment- half an inch long, and this neck had been formed before the coagulum had lost its red colour. This steeped in water, so as to become white, appeared like a pendulous tumour. From this case it became easy to explain the mode in which those pendulous bodies are formed, that sometimes occur attached to the in- side of circumscribed cavities; and the principle being established, it be- came equally easy for Mr. Hunter to apply it under other circumstances, since it is evident, from a known law in the animal (Economy, that ex- travasated blood, when rendered an organized part of the body, can as- sume the nature of the parts into which it is effused ; and consequently the same coagulum which in the abdomen formed a soft tumour, when situated on a bone, or in the neighbourhood of bone, forms more com- monly a hard one. The cartilages found in the knee-joint, therefore, appeared to him to originate from a deposit of coagulated blood upon the end of one of the bones, which had acquired the nature of cartilage, and had afterwards been separated. This opinion was further confirmed by the examination of joints which had been violently strained, or other- wise injured, where the patients had died at different periods after the accident. In some of these there were small projecting parts, preter- naturally formed, as hard as cartilage, and so situated as to be readily knocked off by any sudden or violent motion of the joint. This opinion Mr. Hunter has mentioned for many years in his lectures, and his arguments in favour of it are so consonant to the general laws by which the operations of an animal machine are regulated, as scarcely :o require further evidence : but the following case exhibits so many