310 fundamental principles of inflammation. among themselves that we cannot justly understand any one of the species or varieties without forming some idea of the whole, by which means, when treating of any one, we can better contrast it with the others, which gives us a clearer idea both of the one we are treating of and of the whole. So far as it appears to be necessary to take notice of the different inflammations, sis illustrative, they may be comprehended in five divisions; although I must own that if we take in all the specific diseases which produce inflammation, such as the venereal disease in its different forms, the gout, &c., they may be without number. However, many of them produce very much the same appearance and effects with those which are of no specific kind. The specific is of no particular kind, but ouly the cause ; and the specific effect is a something snper- added. Ihe present, viz. the adhesive, with its different effects, as suppuration, I shall consider as one. The cedematous, which comes nearest to the adhesive, forms a second division. The erysipelatous, [a third], the carbuncle [a fourth], and that which leads immediately to mortification [a fifth]. There is another inflammation, very like chil- blains \Erythema nodosum ?], which is not very lively and is often in blotches, some the breadth of a shilling, others of the breadth of half- a-crown, and even broader, &c. This inflammation certainly arises from irritable debility ; the blotches look more of a copper colour, and the skin over them is often diseased. All, except the first, have a kind of affinity to each other; although I think the cedematous has the least ; affinity to the three last, and many vary so as to make it difficult to say to which species the varieties belong. There are a great many other inflammations, but which arise from some specific cause, as the gout, scrofula, &c., or poisons ; but as these do not explain, or illustrate by contrast, the adhesive or suppurative inflammation, I shall not give the inflammation to some certain types which are well understood; but it would be in vain to attempt to arrange the whole of the varieties of inflammation under any two or more • of these heads. Neither would the classification founded on difference of tissue, as first proposed by Dr. Carmichael Smith, be at all more practicable, because the same tissue is subject to different kinds of inflammation, and the same kind of inflammation may j occur in different kinds of tissue, or be transferred by metastasis or otherwise from one to another. In fact there is no other practicable mode of viewing the subject but that of the author, which is to consider healthy inflammation as dre standard, and the degree and kind of deviation from this standard as the specific and distinguishing character- istic of individual inflammations. Of all the modifying circumstances, with the exception perhaps of specific causes, it must be admitted that none has greater and more permanent influence than that of tex- ture : but constitutions will sometimes predominate over texture, and the specific na- ture of the cause over both. Mr. Hunter, in his own masterly manner, has traced the influence of these various circumstances, and especially of texture, in modifying inflam- mation, in which may be distinctly traced the germs of those brilliant views which were afterwards so successfully developed by the illustrious Bichat. 1