GENERAL PRINCIPLES OP TUB BLOOD. 12G tion, had the inflammatory crust upon its surface, and was also cupped. On the same day, four ounces of blood were taken from another per- alburaen and yolk of the egg are imperfectly organized, in as much as they exhibit evident traces of stratification and a granular arrangement after they are boiled, just in the same manner as the crystalline lens of the eye: this latter body, which appears of a perfectly homogeneous and gelatinous consistence in its natural state, is found, on more minute inquiry, to be composed of upwards of five millions of fibres, which curiously interlock one another by an elaborate mechanism. I do not see, however, how this removes the difficulty; for as the albumen is unquestionably secreted, in the first place, into the ovi- duct as a fluid, it must on this supposition organize itself; which is all that is pretended to be said. To argue, as some have done, that because life proceeds only from life, by an uninterrupted succession from the creation, therefore life is the result of organization, appears to me an instance of false logic, unless it can previously be proved, either that the albumen is not alive, or that, being alive, it is secreted already organized into the oviduct; neither of which propositions appears to me tenable. I shall now briefly advert to the opinions of other physiologists, especially of those who have rejected the idea of a vital principle. These have been compelled to give some definition of life, and the following are examples. “ L'ensemble des fonctions qui resistent a la mort.” (Bichat.) “ Une collection des phenomenes qui se succedent, pen- dant un temps limite.” (Richeraml.) “ Life is the assemblage of all the functions, and the general result of their exercise,” or, in other words, “ the result of the mutual actions and reactions of all parts.” (Lawrence.) “ Life, then, consists of a continued series of actions and reactions, ever varying, yet constantly tending to definite ends.” (Roget.) The term life “ is applied to a certain assemblage and succession of phenomena.” (Ali- son.) “ Life is constituted by the conjoined operation of many actions.” (Boslock.) “ Life is simply an effect, the efficient cause of which is beyond the limits of human in- vestigation. It is not a principle or source of action.” (Grainger.) “ L’idfee dc la vie est une de cesidees generates et obscures produites en nous par certaines suites de phe- nombnes, que nous voyons se succeder dans un ordre constant, et se tenir par des rap- ports mutuels. Quoiquc nous ignorions la nature du lien qui les unit, nous sentons que ce lien doit exister, et celanous suffit pour nous les faire designer par un nom que bien- tot le vulgaire regarde comme le signe d'un principe particulier, quoiqu’en effet ce nom ne puisse jamais indiquer que l'ensemble des phenomenes qui ontdonn£ lien it sa for- mation Ce mouveinent g6n£ral et commun de toutes les parties est tellement ce que fait l’essence de la vie.” (Cuvier.) Now the objection to all these definitions is, that they deal merely with the effects arising from the presence of life, or of the vital principle, and do not touch the question at issue, viz. of the nature of the principle itself. Let us apply these sort of definitions to some analogous subject of inquiry, and we shall more readily understand this. Suppose, for instance, that a person wanted to ascertain the cause of motion in any complicated piece of machinery, as a watch or a steam-engine, and he were to be informed that “it was the combination of motions which resisted rest,” or that it was a “ collection of phe- nomena which succeeded one another for a limited time,” or “ that it was the result of the united actions and reactions of all the parts,” Src., he would at once perceive that his informant either did not understand his question, or could not answer it. If by the term life we are to understand the complex assemblage of phenomena ex- hibited in a perfect animal, let it be so; in the same way ns by the term movement we may understand the complicated actions and reactions in a piece of machinery: but let us not mistake such a definition for expositions of the original cause of the phenomena of life, or of the motions of machinery. Such a cause does exist, however, in the one