GRANULATIONS* 493 contract, or at least not nearly so much, as appears by its being thrown into folds and plaits, while the new skin is smooth and shining. This circumstance of the original surrounding skin not having the power of contraction, makes round wounds longer in healing than long ones, for it is much easier for the granulations and the edge of the skin to bring the sides of an oblong cavity together, than the sides of a circle, the cir- cumference of a circle not being so capable of being brought to a point. Whether this contraction of the granulations is owing to an approxi- mation of all the parts by their muscular contraction, like that of a worm, while they lose in substance as they contract, or wdiether they lose with- out any muscular contraction, by the particles being absorbed, so as to form interstices (which I have called interstitial absorption), and the sides afterwards fall together, is not exactly determined, and perhaps both take place. The uses arising from the contraction of the granulations are various. It facilitates the healing of a sore, as there are two operations going on at the same time, viz. contraction anil skinning. It avoids the forma- tion of much new skin, an effect very evident in all sores which are healed, especially in sound parts. In amputation of a thick thigh (which is naturally seven, eight, or more inches in diameter before the opera- tion,) the surface of the sore is of the same diameter, for the receding of the skin here does not increase its surface, as it does in a cut on a plane; yet in this case the cicatrix shall be no broader than a crown piece. This can be effected by the contractile power of the granula- tions, for it is bringing the skin within its natural bounds. The advan- tage arising from this is very evident, for it is with the skin as it is with all other parts of the body, viz. that those parts which were originally formed are much fitter for the purposes of life than those that are newly formed, and not nearly so liable to ulceration. After the whole is skinned we find that the substance, which is the remains of the granulations on which the new skin is formed, still con- tinues to contract, till hardly anything more is left than what the new skin stands upon. This is a very small part in comparison with the first- formed granulations, and it in time loses most of its apparent vessels, becomes white, and ligamentous. For we may observe that all new- healed sores arc redder than the common skin, but in time they become much whiter. As the granulations contract the surrounding old skin is stretched, to cover the part which had been deprived of skin, and this is at first little more than bringing the skin to its old position, which had receded -when the breach was first made; but afterwards it becomes considerably more, so as to stretch, or oblige the old skin to elongate, from which we