358 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. may suppose the smaller vessels in general; for when we can observe internal parts, so we find it, such as the mouth in general, eyes, &c.; a general paleness takes place, which is best seen in the lips, and even a shrinking of the external visible parts takes place, especially the eyes, so that the person looks ill, and often looks as if dying. The pulse is at this time small, which shows that the whole arterial system is in ac- tion. This appears to arise from debility, or the want of powers in the constitution to be acted on by such a disposition at the time, so that the whole powers or materials of life are called into the vital parts or cita- del, and the outworks are left to themselves. Such is the case with faint- ing, the cold fit of an ague, the cold fit or beginning of a fever, and the rigors or beginnings of exacerbations: it is also the case with the hectic. In the commencement of diseases it does not appear to arise from real debility of constitution, but from the novelty of the action, and of course a debility in that action, and from that only; but in the hectic, where a real debility has taken place, those appearances are owing to that cause; however, even in the hectic, this debility is assisted by the unnaturalness of the action. In the first, where there are real powers, it would appear as if Nature was struggling with the new disposition, and it either becomes destroyed entirely or in part, and the blood is then determined to the skin, and we may suppose into the smaller vessels in general; then the pulse becomes full; the whole action now appears to be there [in the skin], and it becomes hot; when that action in the skin ceases a perspiration takes place, and nature seems in many cases to be at rest: in some disorders this cessation is perfect for r time, as in agues; sometimes wholly, as in slight colds; but often imperfectly, as in con- tinued fevers, where the cessation appears only to arise from weariness, which prevents the continuance of the action, not from an alteration of the disposition. In other diseases the blood is thrown very early upon the exterior parts. The face shall look bloated, the eyes full, the skin red, dry, and hard to the touch. These symptoms, I suspect, belong more to fevers of the putrid kind, and have less connexion with surgery than the former. The pulse is often as strong a sign of the shite of the constitution as any other action that takes place in it, though it is not so always; but as the pulse has but one circumstance attending it that we can really measure, all the others being referable to the sensation or feeling of the person who is to judge of it, the true state of the pulse is not easily ascertained. The knowledge of the soft, the hard, and the thrilling, are such as can only be acquired with accuracy by the habit of feeling pulses in these different states, and by many is not to be attained, for simple sensation in the minds of any two men are seldom alike. Thus we find it happens with respect to music, for what would be disagree-