OF PUS. 443 in the matter of a compound fracture in the arm of a living man, and a similar portion into some of the same matter out of the body; also a third portion into iiuid calf’s foot jelly, in which the animal substance was pure, having neither wine nor vegetables mixed with it. These three portions of muscle were taken out once every twenty-four hours, washed in water, weighed and returned again. The results were as follows: “ hi 24 hours the portion of muscle in the abscess weighed sixty grains, was pulpy and soft, but quite free from putrefaction: that por- tion immersed in the pus weighed forty-six grains, was pulpy, soft, and had a slightly putrid smell: the portion in the jelly weighed thirty-eight grains, was smaller and firmer in its texture. In 48 hours the portion of muscle in the abscess weighed thirty-eight grains, and had undergone no change ; that in the matter weighed thirty-six grains, was softer and more putrid; that in the jelly thirty-six grains and smaller. In 72 hours the portion of muscle in the abscess weighed twenty-seven grains, was drier and firmer; that in the matter eighteen grains, and was ren- dered fibrous and thready; that in the jelly unaltered. In 96 hours the portion of muscle in the abscess weighed twenty-five grains; that in the matter was dissolved; that in the jelly weighed thirty-six grains*; In 120 hours the portion of muscle in the abscess weighed twenty-two grains, not at all putrid ; that in the jelly thirty-four grains, not at all putrid. In 144 hours the portion of muscle in the abscess weighed twenty-two grains, and was free from putrefaction; that in the jelly thirty-four grains.” The supposed facts of the solids dissolving being established in the mind as so many data to reason from, they had now no difficulty to ac- count for the formation of pus from both the solids and the fluids. Fer- mentation started up in the mind immediately as a cause; but there must be a cause for fermentation, and according to this idea there are facts which go against it. First, let us consider internal canals, where only mucus is naturally formed, taking on the formation of pus without the loss of substance or any previous ferment, and leaving it olf. Now if a fermentation of the solids and fluids was the immediate cause, I should beg leave to ask what solids were destroyed in order to enter into the composition of the pus discharged, for the whole penis could * One reason, probably, for the piece of meat so soon becoming putrid and dissolving in the pus was its being kept in the same pus the whole time, therefore its dissolution was owing more to putrefaction than a dissolving quality in the pus; whereas the piece in the abscess had its matter continually changing, which is the common result in a sore, and if it had a corroding quality independent of the putrefaction, it ought to have been dissolved first; but we may observe that the piece of muscle in the abscess and the piece in the jelly were nearly upon a par.