251 UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. ยง. 2. Of Injuries where the Wound communicates externally. The second division of injury arising from accident is where the rup- tured parts communicate externally, producing effects different from the former. These may be divided into two kinds, viz. wounds made by a sharp-cutting instrument, and contusions producing death in the parts injured. Wounds are subject to as great a variety as anything in surgery. A wound is a breach made in the continuity of the solids of a part, beginning most commonly on the external surface, and proceeding in- wards, although sometimes its direction is from the inside outwards, as in compound fractures. A gun-shot wound maybe said to partake of both circumstances, as it passes through a part: wounds often admit of the same mode of cure with accidents which do not communicate ex- ternally ; but then it requires the art of the surgeon to place them in the same situation, or under the same circumstances. A wound is either simple or compound; the simple is what I have now to explain, and is of such a nature as to admit of union by the first intention. Of this description we may likewise consider wounds which are the con- sequence of certain surgical operations. The form of the instrument by which wounds have been inflicted will also make a difference in their nature : for if it be sharp it will make a clean-cut wound; if obtuse in its shape a bruised one, and may also deaden a part, and the parts may likewise be torn after having been cut; all of which varieties will render a different treatment necessary towards effecting a cure. In the most simple cases of wounds, a number of blood-vessels being divided, there is an effusion of blood, which escaping by the wound, the internal parts are left exposed, especially the cellular membrane; and these, if not brought into contact with corresponding living parts im- mediately, or by means of the coagulated blood, will inflame and sup- purate. Accidents of this kind differ from those of the first division by communicating externally, a circumstance which makes them often re- quire very different modes of treatment. In cases where parts have been forced out of their natural situation, they should be reduced, that when cured they may answer their natural purposes, as in fracture, dis- location, &c. Wounds admit of three modes of treatment, arising from their size, situation, and the nature of the parts wounded. One mode is artificial, two are natural: in which last the constitution is allowed to perform the cure in its own way, which will be explained when we speak of scabbing. 'I hese being different from the former and from each other, it might be thought that 1 should have considered them first as being natural