TITE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 387 which always must he some exposed surface, as when the skin of the eyelids, tonsils, &c. are inflamed; but even there some part must be affected by continued sympathy if they produce a-cure, as the inflam- mation generally goes beyond the surface of immediate contact. That inflammation which admits of repulsion, although by local means, might be considered here; but, from its effects and connexion with the constitution, it comes in more properly with the several relations under which I shall consider ita. [ The three great means of reducing inflammation must ever consist in tl.e use of bloodletting, purging, and the adoption of an antiphlogistic regimen. In regard to which ,t may be observed, that the first should be had recourse to early in the disease and be carried to such an extent as to produce an evident abatement of the symptoms’ the second should be so contrived as to ensure a regular and continued action of (he bowels during the whole course of the disease ; and the third should not be relaxed ■ n until all the symptoms of active inflammation have disappeared. To these all other measures must be regarded as subsidiary in cases of extensive inflammation affecting vital parts, although in cases of less severity it may happen that the auxiliary measures or some particular methods of treatment adapted to the peculiar circumstances of the’ case, may claim the principal attention. Among the auxiliary measures brought for- ward since the authors death, two or three may here be briefly adverted to, for the purpose chiefly of pointing them out to the student’s attention rather than of forming any exact appreciation of their value. “ so !J hC effiC,a7 f mem7 in COntro,li"g »’c inflammatory action is in no instance so well cxemphhed as in inflammation of the iris ; for, as the parts arc here open to our uew, we obtain demonstrative evidence of its power, not only in checking the morbid action hut in occasioning the absorption of adventitious deposits. The efficacy of mer- cury, however, ts limited to particular cases. It is greatest in iritis, laryngitis, Impa- rt,s, and inflammation of the testicle; less in the mucous and serous membranes and he parenchymatous vtscera ; and still less in the common cellular membrane and other tissues. Its success is most marked in dispelling the remaining inflammation after the acute symptoms have been subdued, and therefore it should not be administered until a proper measure of bloodletting and purging have been previously adopted Its ad- ministration .should also he continuous, sons to keep the constitution under its influence discontinued^ C'ther l0Cal " C°nS,itUtio,,al irritation its ««e should be immediately 2. It has been proposed to accomplish all the beneficial objects of depletion by the administration of sedative medicines, such as digitalis and prussic acid, which by act- ing directly on the heart reduce the strength and frequency of the pulse; but experi- ence has not confirmed these pretensions, nor was it indeed to he expected, sin J (l,e Uon\vhi7y \ lhC ST effcctsarc Ponced by many form, of visceral infiamma- t.on, which proceed nevertheless to a fatal termination, and that too with the greatc, certainty in proportion as tl.ese symptoms continue: neither have emetics, except in a few mstances, any deeded effect in checking inflammatory action, although the depres- sion which they produce ts very nearly analogous to that produced by the above-men- tioned medicines. Excitability and stimulants are correlative terms, but very different effects are produced by the temporary reduction of the former and the actual reduction maskedaUCr: ^ tl>C thC discase is removed> but by the former it is merely 3' Tl'e C(ruct of smtimonial medicines is to lower tbe pulse aud to restore the actions 2c 2