OF TIIE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 146 Muscular contraction has been generally supposed to arise from some impression, which is commonly called a stimulus : I doubt, however, of an impression being always necessary; and I believe that in many cases the cessation of an accustomed impulse may become the cause of con- traction in a muscle. The sphincter iridis of the eye contracts when there is too much light, but the radii contract when there is little or no lighta. I can even conceive that a cessation of action requires its sti- mulus to produce it, which may be called the stimulus of cessation; for relaxation is not the state into which a muscle will naturally fall upon the removal of a continued stimulus; a muscle remaining contracted after absolute death, when the stimulus of relaxation cannot be applied; so that a muscle can as little relax after death as it can contractb. If a stone is raised, and the raising power removed, it falls; but it would not fall if not acted upon. When it has fallen it lies at rest; but so it would have done when raised, if gravitation would have allowed it. The stone is passive, and must be acted upon. Whatever becomes a stimulus to one set of muscles, becomes a cause of relaxation to those which act in a contrary direction* ; and whatever becomes a stimulus to one part of a muscular canal, where a succession of actions is to take place, be- comes also a cause of relaxation in the part beyond it, as in an in- testine. Muscular contraction, in some of the involuntary muscles, does not constantly arise from immediate stimuli, as in the sphincters ; for the * This might be called a sympathetic stimulus, and is that which regulates the ac- tions of the whole machine, and which I have called, in another place, the stimulus of necessity. ® [Dr. Parry objects to this illustration, and thinks that the radii of the iris restore themselves by their simple tonicity, in the same manner as other muscles. It may be observed, that the fact of the muscularity of the iris, which is here presumed from ana- ogy by Mr. Hunter, has been since directly proved by the observations of Bauer and Jacob {Phil. Trans. 1822), and indirectly by Berzelius, who found that the iris possesses all the chemical properties of muscle. Dr. Roget also has informed us that the iris of his eye is partly under the influence of the will; and Mr. Mayo, that in some animals it instantaneously contracts on any mechanical irritation of the third pair of nerves (op. cit., p. 291.); phenomena which are obviously only referrible to a muscular structure.] b [Muscles which have long been contracted lose all disposition to relax, as may be observed in Fakirs and other religious visionaries, who compel themselves to remain in constrained positions of the body for a long time together, and in the contractions which follow diseases of the joints. Even a powerful grasp of the hand, continued only for a few minutes, is recovered from with difficulty. That peculiar tetanic spasm of the lower extremities which is induced by injecting a solution of opium into the sto- mach of a frog, is not relaxed by a division of the spinal marrow above the origin of the lumbar nerves.]