THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 388 §. 12. General Observations on Repulsion, Sympathy, Deri- vation, Revulsion, and Translation. These terms are meant to be expressive of a change in the situation of diseased actions in the body, and they are so named according to the immediate cause, for any one disease may admit of any of these modes equally ; that is, a disease which admits of being repelled may admit of being cured by sympathy, which probably includes derivation, repulsion, and translation. That such a principle or principles exist is, I think, evident, but the precise mode of action is, I believe, not known; that is, it is not known what part of the body more readily accepts of the action of another; if there are such parts, they might be called correspon- dent parts, whether the action changes its place from repulsion, sym- pathy, derivation, or translation. In derivation and repulsion, whether one mode of irritation is better than another, to invite or divert the ac- tion, and whether parts of a peculiar action do not require a peculiar irritation to divert them ; to all this we are likewise totally strangers. It is not to my present purpose to go into the different effects of this principle, although I must own it might be as useful a part of the heal- ing art as any; and even more, for it is probably the least known, as being the least intelligible, and therefore the more use may be derived from its investigation. The operations denominated by these terms, so far as they exist, ap- f of the skin; but it has been proposed by Tomraasini and the Italian physicians to ad- minister the antimonium tartarizatum in large doses of from ten to sixty or even ninety grains, two or three times a day, which in cases where it is likely to prove beneficial are said not to produce sickness and purging, except after the first dose, but to act spe- cifically on the extreme vessels so as to correct the morbid action. The plan, however, has been tried in this country without success, and in those cases where it has appeared to be of service, the good effects have seemed to arise either from the evacuation of the stomach in the first instance by vomiting, or by keeping up a gentle action of the bowels by purging, or else by subduing to a certain extent the heart’s action; effects which may clearly be attained with more safety and ease by other m?ans. 4. The last measure which 1 shall mention is the adoption of incisions, for which we are chiefly indebted to Mr. Copland Hutchinson and Mr. Lawrence. This method is principally serviceable in erysipelas, or diffuse inflammation of the cellular membrane. In the former case it relieves the tension of the skin and effectually unloads the vessels, while in the latter it gives exit to sloughs or putrid matter, and excites the parts to a healthy action. The length and depth of the incisions may vary from mere superficial incisions of a half inch in length to deep incisures extending through the whole adipose structure and reaching to a foot in extent. This plan is often very successful where the patient has a robust constitution, and has besides the courage to submit to so severe a method of procedure; but in other cases, especially if the incisions are of great extent, the loss of blood may prove fatal, or at least so weaken the patient as considerably to protract the convalescence.]