OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 156 ยง.3. Of the Structure of Arteries. The arteries in an animal, as far as we can examine them, are en- dowed with the property of elasticity, the use of which we perceive in the action of those parts ; and this power is at all times demonstrable, while the muscular has been by some overlooked, by others denied, and has only been asserted by others as appearing necessary by reasoning from analogy. The quantity of elasticity in any artery on which an experiment can be made is easily ascertained, as it only requires the application of an opposing force to prove both its power and extent. But it will appear from experiment, that the power varies according to the distance from the heart, being greatest at the heart; while probably the extent may be the same in every artery. To endeavour to ascertain the elasticity of arteries, I made compara- tive experiments on the aorta and pulmonary artery. Having cut off a portion, of about an inch in length, from the ascending aorta, at half an inch above the valves, and having slit it up, it measured, transversely, two inches and three quarters, but when stretched to its full length, three inches and three quarters, having gained rather more than one third, and having required a force equal to the weight of one jiound ten ounces to produce this effect. A similar section was made of the pul- monary artery in the same subject, which measured two inches and a half, transversely; and when subjected to trial in the same manner, was stretched to three inches and a half, being rather more in proportion than the aorta; so that the pulmonary artery appears to have rather more elasticity than the aorta. It is not impossible that this difference might have arisen from the aorta having lost some of its elasticity by use ; for although I chose for my experiment the arteries of a young man, where I conceived them to be perfectly sound, yet if there could have been any diminution of the elasticity from use, it would be most con- siderable in the aorta. These experiments were made on different arteries with nearly the same result, and seemed to prove that there was almost the same extent of elasticity, though not the same powers. An artery being composed of an elastic and inelastic substance, its elasticity is not altogether similar to that of a body which is wholly elastic. There is an effect produced from stretching it that is expres- sive of the nature of both these substances, till it gives way or breaks; for an artery has a check to its yielding to so great a degree, and is