granulations. 492 to coagulating lymph. I have not attempted to wipe it of!', and the next day ot diessing I have found this very substance vascular, for by wiping 01 touching it with a probe it has bled freely. I have observed the same appearance on the surface of a bone that has been laid bare. I once scraped oil some of the external surface of a bone of the foot, to see if the surface would granulate. I remarked the following day that the suiface of the bone was covered with a whitish substance, having a tinge ol blue; when I passed my probe into it I did not feel the bone bare, but only its resistance. I conceived this substance to be coagulating lymph, thrown out from inflammation, and that it would be forced off when suppuration came on; but on the succeeding day I found it vas- cular, and appearing like healthy granulations. 1 he vessels of granulations pass from the original parts, whatever these are, to the basis of the granulations ; from thence towrards their external surface, in pretty regular parallel lines, and would almost ap- ’ pear to terminate there. 1 he surface of this new substance, or granulations, continues to have the same disposition for the secretion of pus as the parts from which they were produced; it is therefore reasonable to suppose that the na- ture of the vessels does not alter by forming the granulations, hut that they were completely changed for the purpose before the granulations began to form, and that these granulations are a consequence of a change then produced upon them. Their surfaces are very convex, the reverse of ulceration, having a great many points or small eminences, so sis to appear rough ; and the smaller these points are, the more healthy we find the granulations. 'The colour of healthy granulations is a deep florid red, which would make us suspect that the colour was principally owing to the arterial blood*, but it only shows a brisk circulation in them, the blood not having time to become dark. When naturally of a livid red they are commonly unhealthy, and show a languid circulation, which appearance often comes on in granulations of the limbs from the position of the body, as is evident from the fol- lowing case. A stout healthy young man had his leg considerably torn, and it formed a broad sore; when healing, it was some days of a florid red, and on others of a purple hue : wondering what this could be owing to, he told me when he stood for a few- minutes it always changed from the scarlet to the modena. I made him stand up, and found it soon changed ; * I once began to suspect that the air might have some influence upon the blood when.circulating in the vessels, but from its losing that florid colour in sores of the legs by standing erect, I gave up that idea.