224 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. The veins, taken altogether, are much larger than the arteries3; but in the extremities the veins that attend an artery are sometimes less. Nevertheless, there are commonly two of them; but, besides these, there are superficial ones, which are much larger than those deeply seated. The best way, however, of judging is by comparing them with the corresponding arteries where there are no supernumerary veins, as in the intestines, kidneys, lungs, brain, &c. where we find that they are larger than the arteries : and this too where a considerable waste has taken place of the arterial blood in the different secretions. From this circumstance the blood’s motion in them is slower, and they allow a greater quantity to be in the body at all times. There is a greater number of trunks of veins in the body than of ar- teries, at least visible veins, for wherever there is an artery in common there is a vein, and in many places two, one on each side, which some- times makes a kind of plexus round it; besides, there are many veins where there are no corresponding arteries, as on the surface of the body; for in the extremities many of the larger veins pass superficially, but those become fewer and fewer towards the trunk of the body. They are numerous also in the neck of the human subject; but in some of the viscera, as the intestines, the veins and arteries correspond in num- ber very exactly. Dr. Hides, however, in his Statics, says that he has seen a number of arteries throw their blood into one vein; which, if true, shows that there are more small arteries than veins. Although veins generally attend the arteries, there are some excep- tions, even in corresponding veins, as in the pia mater; but they can- not all attend the arteries, there being more superficial veins on the extremities and neck, but the large trunks do. The supernumerary veins are not so regular as those that attend the arteries, being hardly alike in two people. because in these parts the auxiliary aid of the valves is most needed lo assist in carrying on the circulation of the blood. The following veins, in addition to those enumerated in the text, possess no valves, viz. the umbilical, vena cava inferior, vertebral, and veins of the spinal marrow. The uterine veins and also the spermatic veins in the fe- male are not generally provided with valves, although they occasionally exist. There is a remarkable deviation in the structure of the veins of the brain, adapted to the peculiar circumstances of that organ : for, in the first place, the sinuses are ren- dered incompressible, to guard against their being collapsed by any sudden increase of the arterial tension, which the inextensibility of the cranium would necessarily deter- mine to these vessels, so as to compress their sides together; while, in the second place, this provision is rendered still more perfect, by the tributary veins of the pia mater being made to open into the sinuses in an oblique direction, opposite to the current of blood, so as effectually to oppose any reflux determination, upon the circulation being impeded.] 3 [This, however, is more apparent than real in the dead body, in consequence of the continued action of the capillaries driving the blood into the dilatable veins.]