52 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF T1IE BLOOD. serum of seventy-two. The serum of a boy fifteen years of age coagu- lated wholly; there was hardly any of the fluid part that could be squeezed out: at the same time I coagulated the serum of a man sixty- three years of age, in which there was but a small quantity of the fluid part. Conceiving that the whey of milk, made with rennet, was the serum of the blood, I made experiments on it analogous to the above. I heated some of the whey, and found it formed a coagulable matter, which ^floated in flakes in a fluid, which did not coagulate by this means. As this less coagulable fluid is a substance hitherto not taken notice of, and makes perhaps as interesting a part as any of the whole mass of blood, it will be necessary to be more descriptive in giving an account of it than of the other parts. Urine does not coagulate by heat; but as I found that it coagulated with the extract of Goulard*, and as I also knewr that this extract coagulated the whole mass of the serum, I con- ceived that the fluid in question might be similar to urine, and that the coagulation of the serum might be owing to the coagulation of this part: I therefore put the fluid to this test, and found that it was co- agulated by the extract, which led to a series of experiments. As several fluids, apparently different from each other, appear to be thrown out from the blood on many occasions, I wished to see how far they consisted of the common serum, viz. of a pretty equal quantity of matter coagulable by heat, or principally of that coagulable by Gou- lard’s extract; I therefore collected the several kinds ; not only those which may be called natural, but also those proceeding from disease, which appear more like serum than the others. Of the natural, I took the aqueous humour of the eye, and first heated it in a spoon, to see what quantity of coagulable matter by heat was in it, and I found it became gently wheyish : therefore it had a small portion of matter coag- ulable by heat; but upon adding the extract to it, it coagulated imme- diately. The same exactly happened with the w'ater in the ventricles of the brain ; and also with the tears. Water was taken from the leg of a dropsical boy, who was extremely reduced by a compound fracture of the opposite thigh-bone, which water was much clearer than any serum. Upon heating it in a spoon over a candle, it became a little wheyish, and had a few flakes of coagulum • What led me to the above knowledge was mixing this extract of Goulard with solutions of gum arabic in water for injections, when I found that the whole always became a solid mass; while injections with saccharum saturni had not that effect. I then tried it upon many other vegetable juices, and found it coagulated every one of them. In some of these experiments I put some of the compounds into a vessel where there was some urine, and I found that, when the extract had been in too large a quan- tity, the urine was also coagulated.