40 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. blood spontaneously separates itself. So far it appears as a simple fluid, in which light I shall first consider it; though we shall find Hewson to the greater tenuity of this fluid j but both of these opinions are directly con- tradicted by experience, for nothing can be more clear than that there exists in the blood a greater disposition to separate into its component parts in inflammation than in a healthy state, while nothing has been more clearly proved than that the specific gra- vity of the whole blood is increased under the same circumstances, at the same time that the fibrin and albumen are separately and collectively in greater relative proportions than in a state of health. ( Thackrah, pp. 206-212.) Rapidity of circulation is another cause which has been adduced in explanation of this phenomenon ; but rapidity of cir- culation does not necessarily precede a sizy state of the blood, nor would it, if it did, throw any light on the proximate cause of this appearance. The question now naturally occurs, Does the buffy crust consist of the original fibrin of the blood, or of the fibrin of the blood modified by disease, or of altogether a new substance? I think there can be no doubt that it consists of the fibrin of the blood de- prived of the red globules, that is, of a net-work of fibrin containing a more or less con- siderable portion of serum. It is difficult to imagine that this substance has not under- gone some modification from disease; for although the fibrin thus obtained does not chemically differ from ordinary fibrin, yet it is firmer, denser, more contractile, and more like an ordinary membrane than the fibrin of healthy blood ; physiologically speaking, therefore, it has undergone some modification. It would also appear from the researches of Trail, Gendrin, and Dowler, that the serum which is interposed in its meshes is more charged with albumen than the rest of the serum, although this state- ment has been denied by Thackrah. The ratio of solid and liquid elements in the buffy crust varies considerably in different cases, but in general there is more fibrin and less serum than in the ordinary crassamentnm of healthy blood. The cases in which the huffy coat is most strikingly exhibited are those of rheumatic inflammation, and inflam- mation of serous and fibrous structures. The quantity of buff present may generally be considered as an index to the strength of the constitution and the acuteness of the disease conjointly ; but this is not universally the case, for the blood is very often found to be buffed in scurvy and diabetes as well as in the latter stages of phthisis and acute diseases, so that this circumstance taken singly is an extremely unsafe guide to act on. On the other hand, it is found deficient in children, and has rarely been observed to form in arterial blood, or blood abstracted by cupping. It is also very often found to be wanting in plethoric people ; in cases of smallpox previous to the appearance of the eruption; in violent and extensive inflammation, involving several textures of the body at the same time, and running into rapid suppuration; in diffuse inflammation of the cellular membrane ; in inflammation of mucous membranes ; in the first attack of the endemic and common remittent fevers of hot climates; “Imo in morbis maxime in- flammatoriis, in nullo sanguine, quotiescunque misso, aliquoties crusta ulla est.” (De Htten, Hat. Med., iii. c. 2.) Under these circumstances it must be apparent that the mere absence or presence of buff is no sure indication in practice, but must be judged of, like other symptoms, from concurrent circumstances. Mr. Vines (Lancet, xi. 294.) has stated a very extraordinary fact relating to this subject. Asses, he says, that feed on hay and live in the open air at a temperature of 45°-55° exhibit a buffy crust, which disappears as soon as the temperature is raised to 60° or depressed to 35°. Also that if an animal in health, his blood being buffy, be made to undergo moderate exercise, it will become wholly red, and will continue so for some hours afterwards. But when the circulation becomes tranquil, it will again put on the bulfy appearance. If the exertion, however, be continued to an immoderate degree, the blood becomes again lmtfy. The fatt of excessive exercise rendering the blood buffv,