168 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. lowing experiments on the spermatic artery of a bull, and likewise on the artery of the fore leg and penis. The spermatic artery, near the aorta, when stretched longitudinally, recovered perfectly the former length; when stretched transversely it likewise recovered perfectly. About the middle, when stretched transversely, it gained Upon the testicle when stretched transversely, it gained i, which was its muscu- lar power. The humeral portion of the artery of the fore leg, when stretched transversely, and also longitudinally, recovered entirely. The artery of one hoof, or rather linger, w hen stretched transversely, gained -^v, Avhich was the muscular power : when stretched longitudi- nally it recovered perfectly. The artery of the penis, when stretched longitudinally or trans- versely, recovered itself perfectly. This artery is considerably more elastic longitudinally than the others, but not so transversely. This increased elasticity in the longitudinal direction may be intended to allow of the difference in the length of the penis at different times. From these experiments wTe see that the power of recovery in a vessel is greater in proportion as it is nearer to the heart; but as it becomes more distant it lessens, which shows the decrease of the elastic and the increase of the muscular pow'er. Tubular View of the preceding Experiments*. Measuring. Stretched to. Recovered to. Aorta ascendens inches... 10^ 6 ... Aorta descendens at first) . 7 „ . „ intercostal J f T:r Aorta descendens at the 1 lowest part / Iliac artery 2 21\ ... Axillary 1 H • •• Carotid rV 44 +4 • •• Crural -Hf 1-rar • •• Humeral 44 -nr Radial TV Contract by death. ... -dr part. rr tt>- 4 4 4 i equal to the whole. Experiments on the power of Arteries to contract longitudinally. To prove that arteries do not produce the same power of muscular con * [It may be proper to observe that the proportional rates of contraction by death, as set down in the above table, are deduced front the contracted instead of from the na- tural or middle state of the vessels; independently of which the numbers themselves are not correctly deduced. Tire following fractions represent the respective degrees of contraction in each case (omitting the 3rd, for which there are no data,) calculated for fhe natural state of the vessel, viz. 7' ,, ,'g, f, 4, ?, if, l, and 4,