OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 222 tremities, more especially the lower in man; and still more so, the nearer to the extreme parts. In such parts it is often difficult to di- stinguish the vein from the artery; yet this is not to be remarked in the veins of ascending parts, or those coming from the head, or such as are horizontal, especially in the human subject; and in animals which have a large portion of their body horizontal, there is little difference in the coats of such veins at different distances from the heart. I suspect the muscular powers are much greater in what may be cttlled ascending veins, than either descending or horizontal; and I believe, in general, it is very considerable, for if we look at the back of our hand, and compare their size in a warm day or before a fire, and in a cold day, they hardly appear to be the same veins. They are not so strong in their coats as the arteries, and their strength is in an inverse proportion to their size in the extremities, and the reason is very obvious. They are more dense in their coats than the arteries, yet in the dead body they seem to admit the transudation of the blood; for when there is the least degree of putrefaction we can trace the veins with the eye on the skin, as if very large, the cellular membrane and the skin being tinged for some way on each side of the vein. In the liver we find injections escaping the vena cava hepatica, and getting into its substance in a peculiar manner. They have nearly the same elasticity with the arteries; they are si- milar to the arteries in their structure, being composed of an elastic and muscular substancea, the elastic in some degree preserving a middle state, although not so perfectly as in the arteries. The muscular power adapts the veins to the various circumstances which require the area to be within the middle state, and assists the blood in its motion towards the heart. The coats of the veins themselves are vascular, although not very » [The veins are less clastic, hut much more extensible than the arteries; and in pro- portion to their substance, are capable of sustaining a much heavier weight without breaking. The internal coat of veins, besides being much thinner, more delicate, and less fragile than that of the arteries, is remarkably distinguished from the latter, by never becoming the seat of ossifications, which, in the arteries, take place so generally in rather advanced life as almost to be considered the normal state. It is remarkable that this disposition to ossification is, as Bichat remarked, strictly confined to the arterial portion of the system of red blood, commencing from the left auriculo-ventricular open- ing, through all the ramifications of the aorta; for the left auricle, and also the pulmo- nary veins, although they carry red blood, are rarely, if ever, affected in this manner. Thejfirous coat of veins is principally seen in the depending and superficial veins of the body ; but in general it is very obscurely developed, and in some veins cannot be said to exist. The fibres, according to Meckel, invariably run longitudinally, and •om this circumstance are strikingly contradistinguished from those of the arteries.]