GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 107 , •esult. To determine the comparative lieat between a living and a dead egg, ind also to determine whether a living egg be subject to the same laws .vith the more imperfect animals, I made the following experiments. A fresh egg, and one which had been frozen and thawed, were put into lie cold mixture at 15°; the thawed one soon came down to 32°, and regan to swell and congeal; the fresh one sunk first to 29^°, and in twenty-five minutes after the dead one it rose to 32°, and began to nvell and freeze. The result of this experiment upon the fresh egg was similar to what was observed in the like experiments upon frogs, eels, snails, &c., where life allowed the heat to be diminished 2° or 3° )clow the freezing point, and then resisted all further decrease; but in both the powers of life were expended by this exertion, and then the parts froze like any other dead animal matter. This is not a principle peculiar to life, but is common in many other cases : it has been observed that water could be so circumstanced as to be brought below the freezing point without freezing; but just as it began to freeze it rose to 32°. In my experiments on the heat of vege- tables, I observed that the sap of a tree would freeze at 32°, when taken out of the vessels ; but I found the trees themselves often so low as 15°, and the sap not frozen. From these experiments, it appears that a fresh egg has the power of resisting heat, cold, and putrefaction in a degree equal to many of the more imperfect animals, which exhibit exactly the same phenomena under the same experiments; and it is more than probable that this power arises from the same principle in both. Similar experiments have been made on the blood : after a portion of blood had been frozen, and then thawed, it has again been frozen wfith a similar quantity of fresh blood, drawn from the same person, and that which had undergone this process froze again much faster than the fresh blood*. As all the experiments I had made upon the freezing of animals, w'ith a viewr to see whether it was possible to restore the actions of life when they were again thawed, were made upon whole animals, and as I never saw life return by thawing1, I wished to ascertain how far parts were, in this respect, similar to the w'hole, especially since it was asserted, and with some authority, that parts of a man may be frozen, and may afterwards recover; for this purpose I made the following experiments upon an animal of the same order with ourselves. * Vide Corrie on the Vitality of the Blood, p. 45. Leeches have been frozen, and yet recovered. See note, vol. i. p. 281.]