GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF TIIE BLOOD. 130 tition of these experiments, it did not appear upon the whole that there was much difference. arguments for the vitality of the blood, and have also been considered by Majendie as affording “ une preuve demonstrative que le sang est doue de la vie.” In a previous note, however, (p. 41.) I have offered a different explanation of this process, and there- fore think it right to mention here that I consider the present argument as a real objec- tion to that explanation, although not a sufficient one to overturn it. The subsequent and uninterrupted contraction of the clot for several days after coagulation, exactly corre- sponds with the gradual stiffening of the muscles after death, and therefore the pre- sumption is that both depend on a physiological cause. I apprehend, however, that the same chemical affinity which first produced coagulation may still continue to act and to increase the effect; for acescency and even putrefaction in the coagulum of milk do not prevent a still further contraction of the clot, although it cannot be pretended that the coagulation of milk is a vital process, (since freezing and boiling have no effect in pre- venting it,) and still less that the contraction which subsequently occurs is due to such a cause. The analogy between the coagulum of blood and the coagulum of milk is at least fully as much to the point as the analogy between the contraction of muscles and the contraction of the coagulum of blood: so that the argument from this subject, in respect of the theories before mentioned, is ambidexter, and will receive its quality from other circumstances. 10. Another argument is derived from the fluidity of the blood, which manifestly de- pends on its vitality, whether this quality be conceived to proceed merely as an ema- nation from the surrounding living solids, or to be inherent in the blood itself (see note, p. 29.). The former opinion is certainly favoured by what is mentioned in the next paragraph respecting the effect of poisons on the blood; but the latter appears to me the most probable; first, because it makes the body one consistent whole; and secondly, because it assigns a sufficient reason why the blood does not instantly solidify when it is extravasated from the body, and when, therefore, it must necessarily be placed beyond the reach of that influence which previously kept it fluid. A certain time is required before the blood concretes, and this time is generally found to bear a direct relation to the extent of contact which it has with foreign substances, which ap- pear to conduct away the living principle somewhat in the same manner as heat, elec- tricity, and some other imponderable substances are conducted away under the same circumstances. 11. The celerity with which impressions made on one part of the blood are propagated by sympathy throughout the mass. Fontana found that almost infinitesimal quantities of certain poisons instantly rendered the whole mass of the blood incoagulable; while, on the other hand, other substances having a styptic quality had a contrary effect. (Op. cit., ii. 135.) Now as the poisons above mentioned had no influence whatever on the blood when extravasated from the body, it necessarily follows that the effect which they produced on the blood, while in the body, was physiological, and not chemical, either directly on the blood itself, or, as is most probable, intermediately through the contain- ing vessels; a reciprocative sympathy, that is, must have existed, to have allowed of this action and reaction on each other, although it is impossible to conceive of any sympathy in a dead part. This harmony between the containing and the contained parts is preserved under all circumstances, and can only be ascribed to the sympathy which exists between vital parts. If the body is strong, the contraction of the clot is strong, and the period at which it begins to putrefy protracted ; but the reverse of these circumstances universally obtains in proportion as the powers of the whole system are debilitated. But the blood is not only believed to sympathize with the body, but with