GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 71 even in the human subject all the muscles are not equally red ; the mus- cular part of the intestines, for instance, is not equal in redness to the heart, and many other muscles. To what is this owing ? Does it arise from mechanic^ causes ? Do the vessels become suddenly so small be- yond a certain limit as not to allow the red blood to pass ? or are the other parts of the blood less tenacious ? Is the red part in such not allowed to go so far ? or is it a separating principle in the vessels them- selves ? Many circumstances in life either increase the quantity of the red globules, or make them more universal in the muscles of the same •animal; thus, exercise increases the quantity of the red globules and • the red colour of muscles, while there is the same quantity on the whole; or perhaps we should rather say that indolence decreases the quantity: : this is particularly remarkable in woman; and probably the whiteness of the muscles of young animals may arise from the same cause; I sus- pect, however, something more ; I conceive it arises from the principle of life, influenced by accidental or mechanical causes, for the muscles of young animals are increasing in colour till they arrive at the age of ma- turity, and not afterwards, although they continue to use exercise. Diseases lessen the quantity of the red globules, and often render their i distribution unequal. From the above account we may reason, upon the whole, that the animals which arc reddest, or have the greatest number of red parts, have their blood furnished -with the greatest proportion of red globules0. One would naturally suppose that the red globules were of the same colour everywhere in the same animal; this last is perhaps the case; but now we find that these globules are of different hues in the different systems of vessels in the same animal. In the more perfect animals, where there are two systems of vessels carrying the blood, viz. arteries and veins, the blood is not of the same species of red in both of them in the same animal; one red is the scarlet, which takes place in the ar- teries of the body, the other is the modena, which takes place in the veins; and as every part of the body possesses such systems of vessels, |- 4 [This mode of reasoning is extremely questionable. It may be doubted, for ex- ample, whether any degree of exercise svould ever occasion the wing muscles of certain birds to assume the dark tint which characterizes the muscles of the legs, and e converso. According to Prevost and Dumas, birds are more vascular than mammiferous quadru- peds, and possess a greater number of red globules; and yet there can be no doubt that the colour of their flesh is generally paler. The same observation is equally applicable to the young of all animals. Bichat has endeavoured to show that the colour of muscles ! depends on some foreign substance combined with their fibres; but this colour is cer- tainly not essential to their perfect structure, for the lightest-coloured muscles are often | those which are most contractile. (Bichat, Anal. Gen., ii. 327.)]