UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 260 arc united by the extravasated blood alone, which was thrown out by the injury, either from the divided vessels, or in consequence of inflam- mation, without a single action taking place, even in the part itself, except the closing or inosculation of the vessels, for the flowing of the blood is to be considered as entirely mechanical. Even in cases where a small degree of inflammation comes on, it is merely a local action, and so inconsiderable, that the constitution is not affected by it, because it is an operation to which the powers belonging to the parts themselves are fully equal. The inflammation may produce a small degree of pain, but the operation of union gives no sensation of any kind whatever. The first and great requisite for the restoration of injured parts is rest, as it allows that action which is necessary for repairing injured parts to go on without interruption; and as injuries often excite more action than is required, rest becomes still more necessary. But rest may be thought to consist merely in abstaining from bodily exercise; this will in general be proper, as most parts of the body will be affected either immediately, as being engaged in the action itself, or intermediately by some connexion with the injured parts. Thus, if the injury be in the limbs, and not such as to prevent walking altogether, still persons should not be allowed to walk ; and we find from the want of this caution, complaints in those parts are commonly longer in recovering than in others; for by keeping the limbs at rest the whole progressive motion is stopped, a thing more disagreeable to the mind than any prevention of motion in the body. If an arm be injured, it is not so; the want of its use is not so distressing to the patient, because he can enjoy locomotion, and may have no objection to keeping his hands quiet. Rest is often admitted from necessity, as in the fracture of a leg, but seldom where motion b only an inconvenience. But it must appear that the rupture of a \ cssel requires union as well as the fracture of a bone, although the vessel having more powers of restoration within itself than the bone, and having less occasional disturbance from other powers, especially than fractures of the lower extremities, yet the rest should be proportioned to the mischief which would follow from the want of it; and this will vary according to the situation of parts. The same principle of rest should apply to every injury, although this is not often allowed to be the case. Thus where an injury produces inability to move a part, especially a joint, it is, from fear of the loss of motion, not only allowed to be moved by its own muscles, which would be the most proper mode, if motion at all was necessary, but is moved by the surgeon, or by his direction, who, not satisfied with mechanical violence, has recourse to stimulants, as warm applications, in order to rouse up the internal action of the parts, and at the very time when