EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION, AND ITS 510 those which are not vital: I have observed, likewise, that all the dis- eases of bones, ligaments, and tendons affected the constitution more readily than those of muscles, skin, cellular membrane, etc., and we find that the same general principles are followed in the universal remote sympathy, produced by local diseases of those parts. When the disease is in \ital parts, and is such as not to kill by its first constitutional ef- fects, the constitution then becomes teazed with a complaint which is disturbing the necessary actions of health, the parts being vital; there is, besides, the universal sympathy, with a disease which gives the irri- tation of being incurable. In the large joints it continues to harass the constitution with a disease where the parts have no power, or what is more probable, have no disposition to produce a salutary inflammation and suppuration ; the constitution, therefore, is also irritated with an in- curable disease. T. his is the theory of the cause of the hectic, which will be further illustrated; but now let us consider how far the idea of the absorption of matter may be a cause. If the absorption of matter always produced such symptoms, I do not sec how any patient who has a large sore could possibly escape this dis- ease, because we have as yet no reason to suppose that any one sore has more power of absorption than another. If in those cases where there is a hectic constitution, the absorption is really greater than when the habit is healthy, it will be difficult to determine whether this increase of absorption is a cause or an effect. If it be a cause, it must arise from a particular disposition in the sore to absorb more at one time than common, even while it was in a healthy state; for the sore must be healthy, and then absorb, which hurts the constitution; moreover, as the sore is a part of that constitution, it must of course be affected in turn; and what reason we have to suppose that a healthy sore of a healthy constitution should begin to absorb more at one time than an- other I must own I cannot discover. If this increase of absorption does not depend upon the nature of the sore, it must then take its rise from the constitution ; and if so, there is then a peculiarity in the constitution, so that the whole of the symptoms cannot arise entirely from the absorp- tion of matter as a cause, but must depend on a peculiar constitution and absorption combined. If absorption of matter produced such violent effects as are commonly ascribed to it (which, indeed, are never of the inflammatory kind, but of the hectic), why does not the venereal matter do the same ? We often know that absorption is going on by the progress of buboes, and I have known a large bubo, which was just ready to break, absorbed, from a few days’ sickness at sea, while the person continued at sea for twenty-