614 ON THE CURE OF THE PO ELI TEAL ANEURISM. After he had remained in the hospital a few days, on June 9th I per- formed the operation of taking up the femoral artery of his right thigh. In doiug this I laid bare the fascia which covers the vessels, and made an opening through it large enough to expose the whole diameter of the artery. I passed a crooked silver needle, with a rounded point, behind it, taking care not to include the vein and nerve; in this way the needle and ligature were readily brought out on the other side. The ligature was tied, and immediately the pulsation in the tumour ceased. The Mound was united by slips of adhesive plaster and a bandage. About two hours after the operation he complained of considerable pain in the sac, and in the course of the femoral artery, even to the toes. lie took thirty drops of tincture of opium, which dose was repeated at bed time. June 10th. His skin was hot, and his pulse above 100 in a minute; ten ounces of blood were drawn from the arm, and he was ordered to take the saline mixture : the blood, on standing, showed no buff. Two hours afterwards his pulse was 96 in a minute, and softer; he complained of numbness in the leg, with a tingling sensation in about the middle of the sole of the foot; the heat was the same as in the other leg. 11th. His pulse was T20 in a minute, and strong; there was little moisture on the skin, and great pain in the leg and foot. 13th. The wound was dressed for the first time since the operation; it had a healthy appearance, and the parts were united by the first in- tention ; the tumour in the ham was somewhat diminished, while that in the other leg rather increased since the operation. 16th. He was perceptibly better; the pain in the Kmb was much aba- ted : the ligature was removed. This was the 12th day from the opera- tion. 27th. The w'ound was nearly cicatrized, and the aneurism in the other ham was increasing very fast; he was therefore removed from the ho- spital for a fortnight to reestablish his health, that he might undergo the second operation with greater security. July 11th. He returned to have the operation performed on the other femoral artery; which at his desire Mas done on the same day of the week as the former operation, and exactly five weeks after it. 14th. 1 he operation was conducted in every respect in the same manner as the preceding; and the pulsation in the tumour ceased as soon ns the ligature M'as tied upon the artery. 15th. His pulse was 100 in a minute, and full: he passed a restless night, and complained of great pain in the limb, and a slight pulsation was felt in the aneurismal sac. 16th. The pulsation in the sac Mas more distinct; this I imagined