o02 fundamental principles of inflammation. nor are they commonly so painful as what I have called the common ■ inflammation. It may appear not to be an easy matter to account for all those dif- ferences: however, it is possible that in the spontaneous inflammation there is more occasion for inflammation than suppuration; the inflam- mation being the only action which is necessary to produce the ultimate effect, as, for instance, in the gout: in this disease the inflammation is the only thing necessary for its action, and the inflammation runs much higher than many others do which produce suppuration*. The spon- taneous inflammation arises often from disease, which probably makes the parts more susceptible of inflammation. When inflammation arises from the irritation of death in a part, let the cause of that effect be what it will, whether mechanical, as in bruises, gun-shot wounds, &c., or by chemical means, as caustic, &c., the inflam- mation is late in coming on, and in comparison with the others gentle ■when come on. However, in many bruises, even where the death of parts has taken place, we have inflammation quick and violent; but then the living parts have also suffered, and have suffered much more than if simply wounded. In many bruises we also have inflammations quick and violent, even where death has been produced in a part; but then death does not take place in all the hurt parts, as in many gun-shot wounds, such as those attended with fractured bones, in which the sur- rounding parts were only hurt so far as to bring on irritation and not death. If caustics do not act with vigour they will irritate so as to bring on the inflammation sooner than if they had killed the part quickly8. Irritating substances, when of no specific kind, produce inflammation sooner than other visible causes of inflammation. If of a specific kind, then the time, sort, and violence [of inflammation] will be according to that kind. But irritating applications must be continued for some time to produce violent inflammation. These differences are easily accounted for; quick death does not irritate the part killed, and the contiguous living part, not being itself hurt, is only irritated to get rid of the dead • It is a curious circumstance in the gout, that although it is attended with all the common effects of the adhesive inflammation, as considerable swelling, 8rc., which swell- ing must arise from extravasation of the coagulating lymph, yet adhesions do not seem to be the intention, for none are produced ; the lymph is in general taken up, and chnlk- stone or tophaceous matter [urate of soda] put in its place. * [This is also well exemplified in the application of ligatures for the removal of piles, n®vi materni, enlarged tonsils, &c. The pain and inflammation consequent on such operations are immensely increased by not tightening the ligature with a degree of force sufficient entirely to cut off all vascular communication.!