531 THE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. of bone are extremely tedious, so that in some eases several years are required for the complete disjunction of a dead from a living portion. The general principle, of parts being less accessible to inflammation in proportion as they are dense in structure and deficient in vascularity, holds good in respect to bones, which are rarely subject to idio- pathic inflammation ; the compacter portions being less subject than those which are more porous, although both are much more so than tendons, fascia, and cartilages. Still, however, bones are much exposed to chronic inflammation from mercury, syphilis, gout, rheumatism, scrofula, &c., giving rise to various forms of hyperostosis. Bones become very vascular when inflamed, and the harder parts readily perish. In nearly all cases the texture of the bone is much loosened by inflammation, and a part of the earthy matter is absorbed, so that when macerated and dried it exhibits a light and spongy fabric; in some rare cases it acquires unusual density, approaching to the nature of ivory. The union of bone is precisely similar to that of soft parts, while its reproductive powers are of a high order, leading not only to the complete regeneration of entire shafts of bone, but to the perfect restoration of the organization to the normal state: in which respect, perhaps, they are not equalled by any other structure of the body. Muscular Tissue. This tissue appears to be the least liable to inflammation and its consequences of any structure of the body. When inflammation attacks this structure from wounds, &c., it becomes soft and lacerablc, and of various shades of green, brown, and red ; but in such cases it is not observed that the inflammation has any disposition to extend along the whole course of the muscle. 1 have sometimes seen a diffused sup- puration in the substance of muscles in secondary inflammations, as well as in inflamma- tions arising from wounds received in dissection, and circumscribed abscesses have occa- sionally been discovered in the substance of the heart in carditis. Muscle is never repro- duced, but the union is invariably effected by a fibro-ligamentous structure. Vascular System. The arteries differ very remarkably in their liability to inflamma- tion as compared with the lymphatics and veins, as well as in their constitutional effects and morbid changes. Inflammation of the internal coats of arteries must be con- sidered as very uncommon, and rarely advances to the suppurative stage, whereas nothing is more common than inflammation and suppuration of the veins and lympha- tics, attended with low typhoid symptoms, secondary suppurations in various situations ot the body, and very often death. Chronic inflammation also, leading to considerable thickening of the venous tunics, is sufficiently common. In inflammation of the vein* and lymphatics the adjacent tissues are always more or less involved, so that their course is indicated by hard and painful lines. Mr. Hunter has remarked that this system re- sists the effects both of ulceration and mortification beyond all other tissues; and with regard to mortification they are not, I believe, ever primarily affected in this way. The reproductive powers of vessels are certainly of the highest order, although differing in some measure from other parts. In an instance already referred to (see note. p. 242.), new vessels were actually produced, capable of performing all the functions of the old | but in general when large vessels are obliterated their office is vicariously performed bv the enlargement of others which had previously existed. uT-T rirUe' Li“le iS k,'0Wn resPectinB the nerves. That they become inflamed anti thickened m certain cases of local neuralgic disease has been demonstrated by dis- section, but in other cases no such appearances have been observed; neither is it known whether they are ever primarily affected by ulceration, suppuration, or mortification. I he question as to the regeneration of the proper nervous tissue is still undecided The proper medullary matter of the brain and spinal marrow is subject to acute and c hro me inflammation, like other parts; probably the former, however, never takes place idiopathically, but from injuries and poisons only, when it is generally limited in its extent and characterized by a red colour of various degrees of intensity, verging towards brown, green, or yellow, and terminating in a state of diffluence. Chronic inflamma- 2 m 2