587 ON INTROSUSCEPTION. ON INTROSUSCEPTION. [Head August 18, 1789.] [from the Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge, Vol. I. p. 103. 1793.] In'j rilOSUSCEPTION is a disease produced by the passing of one portion of an intestine into another, and it is commonly, I believe, from the upper passing into the lower part. If the mode of accounting for introsusception, which I am going to offer, be just, it will most frequently happen in the way I have stated, although there is no reason why it may not take place in a contrary direc- tion, in which case the chance of a cure will be increased by the natural actions of the intestinal canal tending to replace the intestine ; and proba- bly from this circumstance it may oftener occur than commonly appears. When the introsusception is downwards it may be called progressive, and when it happens upwards, retrograde. The manner in which it may take place is, by one portion of a loose intestine being contracted, and the part immediately below relaxed and dilated, under which cir- cumstances it might very readily happen, by the contracted portion slip- ping a little way into that which is dilated ; not from any action in either portion of intestine, but from some additional wreight in the gut above. Howr far the peristaltic motion, by pushing the contents on to the con- tracted parts, may force them into the relaxed, I will not determine, but should rather suppose that it would not. By this mode of accounting for an accidental introsusception, it may take place either upwards or downwards; but if a continuance or an in- crease of it arises from the action of the intestine, it must be when it is dowmwards, as wre actually find to be the case; yet this does not ex- plain those in which a considerable portion of intestine appears to have been carried into the gut below : to understand these wre must consider the different parts which form the introsusception. It is made up of three folds of intestine; the inner, which passes down, and being re- flected upwards, forms the second or inverted portion, which being re- flected down again, makes the third or containing part, that is, the out- ermost, which is always in the natural position. The outward fold is the only one which is active, the inverted portion being perfectly passive, and squeezed down by the outer, which inverts