59 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. Any further information we receive concerning the red part of the blood is by means of magnifying glasses, which appear to give a good deal of information. They show us that the red part is composed of bodies of a globular form, swimming in the lymph and serum of the blood. This circumstance of the red part having form probably led anatomists to pay more attention to it than it deserves ; as if they could thence explain any essential principle in the blood or animal ceconomy. This knowledge is of late date; for such examinations of minute bodies could only have taken place since the invention and application of magnifying-glasses. Malpighi was probably the first who employed the microscope for this purpose; and he, in 1668, wrote a description of the appearance of the globules in the blood-vessels of the omentum, which he mistook, however, for globules of fat. Microscopical obser- vations were pursued with great ardour by Antonius Van Leewenhoeck, who saw the red globules, August the 15th, 1673. These early ob- servers probably imagined more than they saw. When an old opinion is partly exploded and a new one brought for- ward, it becomes only necessary to see how far the new one is just; because if it be not proved, we must revert to the old opinion again, or to some other. Mr. Hewson has been at great pains to examine the blood in the microscope, and has given us figures of the different shapes of those chemists to suppose that the colour of the blood is due to this cause. Those who wish to consider the arguments on this subject are referred to Berzelius (ubi ut supra) and Dr. Bostock (Physiology, i. 460.). I shall here only observe, 1st, that the tints pro- duced by reagents on the blood and on the compounds of iron are wholly dissimilar; and 2ndly, that the intensity of colour is too great to allow us to refer it to the minute quantity of iron present in the blood. Dr. Ure has ingeniously suggested that the colour of the blood may possibly depend on the sulphocyanate of potash, this sub- stance having been discovered in the saliva, at the same time that it strikes with the peroxide of iron a very deep and abundant tint much resembling that of the blood. Dr. Williams, on the authority of Dr. Maton, mentions “ the case of a lady whose per- spiration, when profuse, dyed the clothes on some parts of her person, particularly the wrists and neck, of a bright crimson colour, which was supposed by Dr. Proilt to be caused by the sulpho-cyanate of iron.” (Med. Gazette, xvi. 724.) But the explanation of this subject by Mr. Brande is by far the most plausible. lie supposes that the tint ot haematosine is owing to a peculiar colouring principle, capable, like cochineal or mad- der, of acting as a dye and of combining with metallic oxides. Pieces of calico impreg- nated with solutions of corrosive sublimate or nitrate of mercury, and afterwards im- mersed in an aqueous solution of haematosine, acquired a permanent dye of a fine lake red, unchangeable by washing; and solutions of oak bark gave a colour very nearly equal to that of madder and tolerably permanent. The Armenian dyers have for a long while been in the habit of employing it in combination with madder, in order to insure the permanency of that colour. (Phil. Trans. 1812.) J