GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 104 been so full in ray account as I might have been. As many phenomena respecting the coagulation or non-coagulation of the blood develop this principle, I have chosen in part to reserve it for this place; nor shall I be so full upon the present occasion as I should otherwise be were I waiting on this subject expressly; my intention being rather to explain many appearances in the animal ceconomy, and particularly the diseases I am to treat of, than to discuss this single principle. I reserve the illustration of my doctrine for such parts of the treatise as shall be employed on these subjects ; the explanations and illustrations, therefore, will be interspersed through the work, by which means they will come more forcibly on the mind. From many circumstances attending this fluid, it would seem to be the most simple body we know of endowed with the principle of life. That the blood has life is an opinion I have started for above thirty years, and have taught it for near twenty of that time, in my lectures; it does not, therefore, come out at present as a new doctrine, but has had time to meet with considerable opposition, and also acquire its advocates®. To conceive that blood is endowed with life, while circulating, is perhaps carrying the imagination as far as it well can go; but the difficulty arises merely from its being fluid, the mind not being accustomed to the idea of a living fluid*. It may * It is just as difficult for a man bom in the West Indies to conceive water becoming a solid. 1 recollect a gentleman from Barbadoes walking out with me one frosty morn- ing when there was ice on the gutters, and I, without having anything else in my mind than just common observation, said, “ It has been a frost in the night.” He im- mediately caught at the word frost, and asked me, “How I knew that?” Without thinking particularly of the cause of his question, I said, “ Because I see the ice on the gutters.” He immediately said, “ Where? ” and I answered, “ There.” Having been told that ice was a solid, he put his fingers down upon it; but with such caution as be- spoke a mind that did not know what it was to meet; and upon feeling the resistance it gave, he gently pulled his hand back, and looked at the ice, and then became more bold, broke it, and examined it. 2 [Although the doctrine of the life of the blood did not originate with Hunter, we are unquestionably indebted to him for its erection on a solid basis. His comprehen- sive mind enabled him to see more clearly than any preceding physiologist the real bearings of the question, and to devise experiments by which the specific difficulties which lay in the way might be removed. It is not alleged that the doctrine in ques- tion is demonstrable; but only that the evidence before us warrants and requires this inference,—the falsity of which has never yet been demonstrated by any of its opponents. I am not afraid of diminishing Hunter’s just fame by citing the following passages from Harvey, which fully prove that the life of the blood was maintained by that celebrated man, and maintained too by the same kind of arguments. But Hunter, in the spirit of the true English maxim, acquired his right to the property by blending his own labours with the soil; the originality of his mind improved the least thing that he borrowed, and stamped it with the imprimatur of his own genius. . “ Vita igitur in sanguine consistit (uti etiam in sacris nostris legimus,) quippe in ipso