ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 615 arose from some collateral branch having a communication with the sac. A compression was made upon the tumour by means of a circular bandage, to prevent the influx from any collateral branch. 17th. His pulse was about 96 in a minute, strong and full; he had little sleep during the night; the pulsation in the sac was rather less than the day before. He complained of pain about the wound, but net so much in the foot as after the first operation. 18th. His pulse was 73 in a minute: the pulsation in the sac was less; he had a very good night, but now complained of considerable pain in both feet. 24th. He had a slight haemorrhage from the wouud, which w'as brought on by his mind being agitated in consequence of some improper treat- ment his wife had received : it stopped of itself, but the tourniquet was loosely applied in case of a return. He complained of heat where the ligature was made; there wras no difference in the pulsation of the sac. 26th. A second haemorrhage took place from the wound, to the amount of three or four ounces, and then stopped. His pulse was about 108 in a minute; he complained of being faint and languid. I removed the dressings, and upon endeavouring to bring awav the liga- ture, some blood escaped from the wound, per saltum, of a florid colour, supposed to be from the rupture of a small artery; a compress was im- mediately applied to the part, which stopped the bleeding. I removed the compress from the ham, the pulsation in the sac being much abated ; eight ounces of blood were draw n from the arm, and he took the saline mixture. The haemorrhage returned about seven in the even- ing, but was immediately stopped by increasing the compression. 27th. He was very restless all night, and had acute shooting pains in the wound; the bandages were slackened. 28th. He slept well during the night, and had a greater degree of moisture on the skin, and the pains in the limb w'ere not so violent; the dressings w'ere removed, and the wound appeared disposed to slough ; the pulsation in the sac was scarcely perceptible. 29th. His spirits were much better; there was an appearance of swelling and inflammation between the wound and the knee; the pressure was therefore removed from the artery, and applied more uni- formly over the whole limb. 20th. The ligature was removed without haemorrhage; this was the sixteenth day after the operation. August 6th. The haemorrhage returned at five o’clock in the morning, to the amount of four ounces; a compress was applied to the wound, and kept on by a bandage ; he was very restless during the night. 8th. His pulse Avas 110 in a minute, and felt hard and contracted.