62 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. properties which are ready to catch the eye and render the mass more visible. In the living body, by making it an object of sight, they give magnifiers.” No one I imagine that has examined the conflicting accounts which have been given respecting the globules of the blood will be disposed to doubt the justness of this observation. Hewson, Home, Meckel, Bauer, Prevost, and the greater number of authorities de- scribe the globules of the blood as consisting of a central nucleus surrounded by a trans- parent vesicle; Hodgkin affirms that they are flattened cakes, and rejects the notion of a vesicle; others that they are elliptical, spherical, or ovoid; and others again that they are mere rings with central depressions, or mere discs with central elevations. The same discrepancy is observable in the accounts which have been given of the size of these bodies. Twine estimated their diameter at 8 j 4 to T!,t.ru of an inch, Bauer Hodgkin -jVw. Cavallo Rudolplii Tn‘0T to Wollaston Prevost and Dumas -TTfrT, Raspail to Haller, Home and Kater and Young ynfw Amidst these discordant statements it would be absurd in any one to pretend to accuracy. The following account, therefore, of these bodies by Professor Mayo can only be regarded as an approximation to the truth; and I take the liberty of inserting it in this place, first, because it accords most accurately with my own observations, and, secondly, because it approaches as nearly as possible to the mean of all the preceding ob- servations. “ The form of the globules (in man) may be compared to a silk-worm’s egg. They are circular and extremely thin, with rounded edges and a central depression on either flat surface. Their diameter is very exactly „ part of an inch. They are flexible, and, when, rolling upon their edges, are often bent in such a manner that they appear to consist of a central nucleus projecting from a thin disc. Plate XX. fig. 5—10 [which see] represents six squares of a glass micrometer, each side of a square being T J,W part of an inch. In the squares 5. 6. 7. different appearances of the particles of the human blood are delineated, their central depression, and various positions in which they may be seen when rolling down an inclined surface—fig. 8. 9. 10 represent the particles of the blood of a skate: they appear to differ from the particles of human blood principally in being of a much larger size, in their oval outline, and in the oval figute of their central depression.” (Outlines of Human Physiology, 3rd edit., p. 23.) The size and shape of the globules differ very remarkably in different animals. In the skate, for example, they are elliptical and about twice as large as in human blood. In fishes they are about a7,'iro to tjVit' and in the frog, about -mVe of an inch in dia- meter ; in the water-sow they are about ten times as large, and in the land salamander, nearly thirteen times as large as those of the human blood. These last are the largest which have yet been discovered. It may be observed that the globules are larger in all cold-blooded animals, and represent the oval or ellipse more decidedly than those of mammalia. Sir Everard Home has stated that the blood-globules, when they have discharged their external envelope of colouring matter, are disposed to coalesce like beads in a row, so as to form fibrils; from which he was led to believe that the ultimate muscular fibre was composed of these corpuscles lineally arranged, an opinion which has been parti- cipated in by MM. Prevost and Dumas, Dutrocbet, and many other eminent physiolo- gists. Dr. Hodgkin agrees as to the fact of the disposition of the globules to form piles or rouleaux, but affirms that this disposition only exists when they are in their entire state. ,Nir Everard Home has also stated, upon the authority of Bauer, that a different and