357 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. the blood received into two teacups, kept moderately warm in a dish of warm water. Both of them coagulated without the serum separating; but the inflamed blood was evidently of a lighter colour than the blood from the uninflamed part, but neither had the appearance of a buffy coat. Whether the disposition for inflammation, and the change produced in the blood, arise from a real increase of animal life, or whether it is only an increase of a disposition to act with the full powers which the machine is already in possession of, is not easily determined ; but it ap- pears to be certain that it is either the one or the other. There are some circumstances, however, that would incline us to suspect it to be the latter, because there is often inflammation when the powers of the machine are but weak, where it appears to be only an exertion of very weak powers, arising from some irritation produced; in such cases the blood will show signs of weakness although sizy. This appears to be equally the case in local inflammation, and inflammatory fevers, or in the symptomatic fever *. That it is an increase of the one or the other, and that the sensible effect produced arises from the action taking place, both in the solids and fluids, is proved by the method of treatment, which will lx: further illustrated in speaking of the mode of cure. On the other hand, where there is great debility in the solids, where the powers of preservation (the first animal powers) are weak, and there- fore the action weak, and where of course the body must have a ten- dency to dissolution, there we find the very reverse of the former appear- ance in the blood : instead of separating distinctly, and coagulating firmly, we have the whole mass of blood keeping mixed, and hardly any coagulation, only becoming of a thicker consistence. This effect, or appearance, often takes place in those who die instantaneously. I sus- pect that in such cases the blood dies first, and also instantaneously. In the commencement of most diseases, and even through the whole course of many, the situation of the blood appears to be an object with Nature. In some the blood forsakes the skin and extremities, and w'e * On the other hand it would appear reasonable to suppose that there was really an increase of animal life, for women who are breeding, and are in perfect health, always have sizy blood; and this is most remarkably the case with all animals in similar situ- ations. Now it would appear necessary for an animal, whenever put into a situation where greater powers are wanted, to have these powers increased. I n a breeding woman there is a process going on, though natural yet uncommon, and which requires a greater exertion, or a greater quantity of powers than usual, and therefore we have them pro- duced. This process of breeding, although in many of its symptoms it is similar to fever, is yet very different; for actual fever kept up for nine months would destroy the person, while, on the other hand, many are relieved by the process of breeding. If these observations are just, this blood should not be called inflammatory blood, but blood whose powers of life are increased.