SIR E. home’s OBSERVATIONS ON 636 substance, or hair without any admixture whatever, and have a similar kind of hair growing upon their internal surface, which is likewise co- vered with a cuticle. These cuticular incysted tumors were, I believe, first accurately examined by Mr. Hunter, to whom we are likewise in- debted for an explanation of the mode in which the parts acquire this particular structure. Mr. Hunter considers the internal surface of the cyst to be so cir- cumstanced respecting the body, as to lose the stimulus of being an internal part, and receive the same impression from its contents, eithc-r from their nature, or the length of application, as the surface of the skin does from its external situation. It therefore takes on actions suited to such stimuli, undergoes a change in its structure, and acquires a dispo- sition similar to the cutis, and is consequently possessed of the power of pi educing cuticle and hair. What the mode of action is, by which this change is brought about, is not easily determined ; but from the in- dolence of these complaints, it most probably requires a considerable length of time to produce it. That the lining of the cyst really does possess powers similar to cutis, is proved by the following circumstances: that it has a power of forming a succession of cuticles like the common skin; and what is thrown off in this way is found in the cavity of the cyst. It has a similar power respecting hair, and sometimes the cavity is filled with it, so great a quantity has been shed by the internal sur- face. Besides these circumstances, the hair found in the cyst corre- sponds in appearance with that which grows upon the liody of the ani- mal ; and when incysted tumours of this kind form in sheep, they con- tain wool. What is still more curious, when such cysts are laid open, the internal surface undergoes no change from exposure, the cut edges cicatrize, and the bottom of the bag remains ever after an external sur- face. Different specimens, illustrative of the above-mentioned circum- stances, arc preserved in Mr. Hunter’s collection of diseases. The cysts that produce homy excrescences (which are only another modification of cuticle) are very improperly considered as giving rise to horns; for if we examine the mode in which this substance grows, we shall find it the same with the human nails, coming directly out from the surface of the cutis. It dillers from the nails in not being set upon the skin by a thin edge, but by a surface of some breadth, with a hollow in the middle exactly in the same manner as the horn of the rhinoceros*; at least this is evidently the case in the specimen preserved in the Bri- * The horn of the rhinoceros is a cuticular appendage to the skin, similar to nails and other cuticular excrescences, being in no respect allied to horns but in the external appearance.