470 THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. dered useless, whether from disease in a joint, a broken tendon, or the dividing of a nerve, whereby its influence is cut off; or where it takes place in the whole body in consequence of some disease, as in acute fever, hectic fever, diabetes, atrophy, or the like. The second is the absorption of a whole part, where not a vestige is left. This [latter] would seem to be of two kinds : one where it is only in consequence of another disease, and is a necessary and useful effect of that disease, as assisting in bringing parts to the surface ; but the other appears to arise from a disease in the part itself, as the total decay of the alveoli, with- out any disease in the teeth or gums, which however in the end suffer, as also the total wasting of a testicle, the absorption of a callus, &c. It is the first of these two kinds which is most to my present purpose, and deserves our particular attention. It takes place in a thousand instances; we find it gradually taking place in the part of the body which happens to lie between encysted tumours and the external surface, when they are making their way to the skin. This absorption is commonly slow' in its progress, so much so as even to make the ultimate effect, although considerable, not sensible till a certain length of time has elapsed. This mode of removing parts appears to arise from pressure, as in the former; but here some principles are reversed. The contents of an en- cysted tumour do not give the stimulus of removal to that side of the cyst nearest to the external surface, as happens in an abscess, so as to produce a removal of the surface pressed by its contents, which would be the progressive ulceration, as in our first division; but the tumour gives the stimulus to the sound parts, between it and the skin, and an absorption of those parts takes place, similar to that which I suppose takes place in the removal of calluses of bones from weakness. We find whenever an encysted tumour is formed in the cellular membrane, it in time makes its approaches towards the skin, by the cellular mem- brane and other parts between it and the skin being absorbed, so that the whole substance between the cyst and skin becomes thinner and thinner, till the cyst and the external skin meet or come in contact, and then inflammation begins to take place; for as the parts are now soon to be exposed, inflammation takes place to produce a quicker absorption, which borders often upon ulceration. The mode of action in this last case may be, in one respect, very similar to the foregoing solid tumour, for besides the interstitial absorption, the cyst may be looked upon as a tumour acting upon or stimulating the parts between it and the skin; therefore the tumour causes absorption of the contiguous cellular mem- brane upon which it presses. This process of interstitial absorption of parts is very evident, even in common abscess ; and where a progressive absorption is going on, it is assisted by this.