UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 245 it. goes on as sores commonly do. But in other cases, where the open- ing leading to the coagulated blood has been very small, I have seen :that, without any other means being used, the blood has been gradually •squeezed out of the orifice by the contraction of the surrounding parts, till the whole cavity became so much contracted as to contain no more than what seemed to serve as a bond of union to the parts ; and thus the cure has been completed without further trouble. The following case was treated in this way. Mrs. B t fell backwards and pitched upon a pail which was behind her, and the left labium pudcndi struck against its handle with the 'whole weight of her body. Within five minutes after the accident the bruised part swelled to as great a degree as the skin would allow ; from u" l,lch sudden appearance of the swelling, and the feeling of fluctuation, ■ ^ concluded that blood had been extravasated by the rupture of some •small artery. I bled her, and desired a poultice to be applied to the pait, in order to keep the skin as easy as possible under such distention. Believing the tumour to arise from extravasated blood, I did not choose .o open it, that the bleeding might be sooner stopped by the pressure of the extravasated blood against the sides of the cavity. Some hours after the accident the skin burst, and a good deal of blood came away. 3n examining the wound, I found the opening of considerable size, eading into a cavity as large as the egg of a goose, and filled with co- agulated blood, which I did not remove, for the reason given above, that t might assist in stopping the vessels which were still bleeding. The ooultice was continued, the bleeding gradually became less, and every ime I examined the part I found the cavity diminished, but still filled • vith coagulated blood, which continued to be pushed out of the wound, ind after some time a slough came off from the bruised skin, which en- arged the size of the wound. About a fortnight after the accident the aarts were all so much collapsed as to have forced out the blood entirely, ml there seemed only a superficial sore, not above an inch long and talf an inch w ide. What may it be supposed would have been the consequence if I had nlarged the opening, scooped out the blood, and dressed the part with at, or any other application I might think proper ? The effect of such reatment would certainly have been a large sore, nearly of the same ize \\ ith the cavity; and the sides of the cavity would have inflamed nd suppurated. Is there not reason to believe that the coagulated blood, J remaining in the wound, prevented inflammation over the whole sur- ice, and allowed the parts to contract to their natural position, so as to -a\e no other sore than that where the skin had burst and sloughed ? da practice should be generally followed in such cases of ecchyrnosis.