GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 127 < son’s arm, which, on coagulating, showed no inflammatory crust on its ; < surface. Both these quantities of blood were kept, in order to see which i : case as in the other, and that quite independently of the particular form or structure of the animal or the machine, and perhaps independently of form or structure of any kind. > Such definitions of life, therefore, as the preceding are plainly liable to the objection of making life dependent on organization and action, which appears to me to be nothing less than a complete reversal of the actual relations of cause and effect: for in regard to the cause, we cannot say that there is invariable antecedence or connexion ; while in regard to the effect, it is not found invariably to follow the existence of the cause. We ■ recognise the presence of life antecedently to all visible organization and action; and • we also recognise its presence posteriorly to all action, as when an animal is frozen or asphyxiated. On the other hand, life is sometimes suddenly and completely extinguished, without any apparent change having taken place in the organization of the body. On the Life of the Bi.ood.—The difficulty of conceiving that the blood is endowed with life “ arises merely,” as Mr. Hunter observes, “ from its being a fluidbut we have not the smallest reason for assuming a priori that in the nature of things there is a more intimate connexion between life and a solid than between life and a fluid. Let us, there- fore, dismiss this prejudice entirely from our minds, and examine the real grounds on > which the doctrine of the life of the blood rests. “ From many circumstances attending this fluid, it would seem to be the most simple body we know of endowed with the principle of life consequently we should expect that the proofs of its vitality would be deducible chiefly from the resistance which it . offers to external agencies. 1st. If a dead frog or eel be exposed to a freezing mixture, it sinks to 32°, freezes, and continues to fall to the temperature of the mixture. If the animal be alive it will sink to a few degrees below 32°, and remain at that point for a certain time, until the power of resistance be exhausted : it then dies, congeals, and sinks to the tempera- ture of the mixture. If two eggs be similarly treated, one of which has had its powers of resistance destroyed by previous freezing, and the other is fresh, a like result is ob- tained : the former sinks uninterruptedly to the temperature of the mixture, the latter resists for a time at a few degrees below 32°, then congeals, and becomes cold as the for- mer. If two portions of blood, one of which has been previously frozen and the other not, be exposed in a similar way to a freezing mixture, precisely the same thing occurs. Now are we not justified in concluding that the resistance to cold arises in each instance from the same cause ? If it is the possession of life which enables the eel and frog to maintain their temperature for a time, it is the possession of life which also enables the fresh egg and the fresh blood in like manner to maintain their temperature. The ob- jection that the resistance in the blood may be merely from a remainder of vital influ- ence imparted to it by the solids, rests on the notion that there is in the nature of things a greater connexion between a solid and life than between a fluid and life : but this is a mere assumption, the contrary of which may be the fact; for in a perfect animal, as the eel or frog, it is not until the fluids, viz. the blood, &c., have become frozen that the animal is congealed. A solid deprived of blood is as little able to bear cold as blood separated from the solids. 2nd. Parts of animals, such, for example, as the ears of rabbits, and even whole ani- mals, such as several insects in their chrysalis state, admit of being completely frozen without the necessary extinction of life. The blood, in the same manner, admits of being frozen without destroying its coagulating property. As, however, the ears of a rabbit become flaccid, so the coagulum of blood which forms after it has been frozen is