OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 204 PI. XXI. f. 3. shows the artery in its systole, with the three valves, nearly close to its sides. The two black dots are designed to represent the mouths of the coronary arteries, now covered by the valves. Fig. 4. shows the artery in its diastole, where the three valves run nearly into straight lines, making an equilateral triangle of the area of the aorta. But as their edges are rounded, and the bodies of the valves make a curve inwards, they by these means fill up in part this triangular space, as is seen at d d d; and the corpora sesamoidea fill up the remain- ing other part at e e e. In this way the whole of the area of the artery is filled up. The foregoing account is proved by injections against the valves; but it is still more clearly proved that the diastole of the arteries makes the valves do their duty, when it is injected with the current of blood; for in proportion as the artery is distended, the valves recede from the sides of the artery ; and if the artery is fully distended, the communication is entirely cut off between the two pieces of injection, viz. that which is within the heart and that which is within the artery8. It may be ob- jected here, that it will require a certain quantity of blood to make these valves do their office; and when there is not that quantity, it must be done by regurgitation. To this it may be answered, that nature always keeps a due proportion, and all the parts depend on one another; so that the quantity of blood that is just sufficient to keep the animal alive is sufficient to distend the artery so as to shut the valves*. The valves of the pulmonary artery do not do their duty so completely as those of the aorta, for in them we do not find the corpora sesamoidea; and if we inject a pulmonary artery towards the right ventricle, it does not so completely hinder the injection passing into that cavity; nor are the two portions of injection completely separated when the artery is * As people advance in life, especially men, we find the aorta losing its elasticity; and as it is acted upon with great force by the impetus of the blood, it loses that elas- ticity in the state of its diastole, which throws the valves continually across the area of the vessels; and as the valves in those cases commonly become thicker, and are often very irregular and bony, we find that they neither recede from Uie sides of the aorta, during the contraction of the heart, nor towards it during the systole of the artery ; so that more blood is allowed to regurgitate into the ventricle, than in a regular circulation. derable obstrtiction to the complete evacuation of the ventricle; besides, the degree of dilatation necessary to make the valves form an equilateral triangle is probably greater than ever takes place, particularly in debilitated states of the circulation.] a [This is very far from being conclusive. The reaction of the elastic parietes, which have been previously distended by the injection, drives the blood back again upon the valves, and closes them. I may observe, that the semilunar valves are not, generally, so perfectly formed as accurately to close up the area of the artery, while the tricuspid and mitral valves are still less perfect.]