OP THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 174 ease ; but although there is that connexion between the body and the heart, yet there seems not to be such a connexion between the heart and the body a, for the heart may be in some degree disordered in its action, yet the body but little affected: it is therefore only to be con- sidered as a local agent very little affecting the constitution sympathe- tically, except by means of the failure in its duty. The heart in the more perfect animals is double, answerable to the two circulations,—the one through the lungs, the other over the body; but many that have only single hearts, have what is analogous to a double circulation ; and this is performed in very different ways in differ- ent animals, so that one of the circulations in these is performed without a heart. A large class of animals, well known and pretty perfect in their construction, namely, all the class of fish, have no heart for the motion of the blood in the great circulation, or that over the whole body, having only a heart for the lungs or branchiae, while the snail has only a heart for the great circulation, and none for the lungs; in the liver also of the most perfect animals, the motion of the blood in the vena portae and vena cava hepatica is carried on without a heart. The absorbing system in every animal has no immediate propelling power; therefore this propelling power is not universally necessary. The heart varies in its structure in different orders of animals, prin- cipally with respect to the number of cavities and their communications with each other, yet in all nearly the same purpose is answered. I shall here observe, that in the bird and quadruped there is a double circula- lation, which requires a double heart, namely, a heart for each circula- tion, each heart consisting of an auricle and ventricle, called the right and the left; and from their forming but one body among them, they are all included in one heart; the right side, or heart, may be called the pulmonary, and the left may be called the corporeal. In many classes of animals there is to be found only one of these hearts; and according to the class, it is either the pulmonary or corporeal. In the fish, as was observed, the heart is the pulmonary; and in the snail the heart is the corporeal; so that the corporeal motion of the blood in the fish is carried on without a heart; and in the snail the pulmonary motion is carried on without a heart. In the winged insects, which have but one heart, as also but one circulation, there is this heart, answering both purposes; and in all these varieties breathing is the principal object. 'Hie heart in most animals is composed principally of a strong muscle, thrown into the form of a cavity or cavities; but it is not wholly mus- » [I apprehend that a reversal of the terms of this proposition is required, in order that the sense may agree with the context.]