618 ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. the ligature passed out. There had been no pain, or swelling of the parts, since the operation, and the limb continued of the natural tem- perature, except on the fourth day, when it was two degrees hotter by Fahrenheit’s thermometer. On the eleventh day the ligature came away, attended with a con- siderable discharge of matter; this continued on the twelfth : I there- fore made compression on the sides of the wound throughout its whole length, by compresses and a tight roller. On the fifteenth the discharge scarcely moistened the dressings. He was attacked with a purging, attended with disorder of the whole system and loss of appetite, which lasted for a fortnight. During this time the superficial sore remained stationary ; but it was completely healed, and the patient discharged from the hospital at the end of the fifth week. The two following Cases contain nothing remarkable; but as they were both operated on in exactly the same manner as the first Case in the present paper, they increase the number of instances in which the most simple mode of performing this operation has been attended with success. I have therefore thought that they will appear to the Society of sufficient importance to be inserted in this place. Case III. A. B., a dragoon, near six feet high, about thirty-six years of age, came into St. George s Hospital in the year 1794, on account of a popliteal aneurism, for which I performed the operation. In making the external incision 1 was desirous of keeping it in a line with the edge of the sartorius muscle, that the muscle and skin might not form a double valve, and prevent the ready discharge of any matter that should be formed, which I had found to be the case in some in- stances above mentioned. As soon as the artery was exposed I did not attempt to disengage it laterally, but made a small opening on each side of it, just large enough to admit the end of the instrument, conveying the ligature, which was in this way passed round the artery, the nerve and vein being pushed on one side; the ligature was secured, and the wound brought together by means of adhesive plaster. 1 he man had no fever; little, if any, inflammation came upon the limb; the ligature came away the twelfth day; and in three weeks he went to his own house, there being only a superficial sore on the skin, which in a week more was entirely healed. Case IV. George Pile, thirty-five years of age, butler to His Royal Highness the Duke of Clarence, a stout man, of a sallow complexion, and a hard drinker, had been sensible of the feeling of weakness in his left leg for two or three months, when he perceived a tumour of the size of a pigeon’s egg in the ham : ten weeks after he applied to Mr. Knight. The tumour had been enlarged, after a journey from Margate upon the