160 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. actions*. These two powers, muscular and elastic, are probably in- troduced into the vascular system of all animals, the parts themselves being composed of substances of this description, together with a fine inner membrane, which I believe to be but little elastic, and this mem- brane is more apparent in the larger than in the smaller ramifications. When we consider the construction and use of the arteries, we must at once see the necessity of their having these two powers, although in the greatest number it is impossible to give clear ocular demonstra- tion of the existence of distinct muscular fibres. But still, as arteries are evidently composed of two distinct substances, one of which is demonstrably elastic, and we know them likewise to be certainly en- dowed with the power of contraction peculiar to a muscle, it is reason- able to suppose the other substance to be muscular; I shall endeavour also to prove its existence in such vessels, from their having a power of contraction in the action of death. As the human body is always alluded to in this account, I shall found my experiments and observations on such animals only as have a simi- lar structure; for in other animals, as the turtle, alligator, &c., we can plainly discern muscular fibres, the insides of the arteries and veins in these animals being evidently fasciculated. Every part of the vascular system is not equally furnished with mus- cular fibres ; some parts being almost wholly composed of the elastic substance, such as the larger vessels, especially the arteries, in which, were they equally muscular with the smaller vessels, the existence of muscular fibres might be more easily proved. Neither does the elastic substance equally prevail in every part, for many, especially the smaller arteries, or what have been called the capillary vessels, appear to be almost entirely muscular; at least I amled to think so from my own obser- vations and experiments on this subject. From these experiments I have also discovered that the larger arteries possess little muscular powers; but that as they recede from the heart towards the extremities, the muscular power is gradually increased, and the elastic diminished. Hence I imagine there may exist a size of vessels totally void of elasticity: but this I should conceive to be in the very extreme parts only. For it is to be observed that every portion of an artery, of a considerable size, is capable of assuming the middle state, which state must be re- ferred to the elastic power. The greatest part of the arterial system evidently appears to be com- posed of two substances, which structure is most remarkable in the * We can hardly suppose that the muscular coat of the artery assists the elastic in bringing it to the middle state when already contracted within it.