ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. fill 2 a 2 ceived it just time enough to give it a place, as the paper was in the press before it came to hand, and feel myself obliged to Mr. Earle for his readiness in communicating it. “ Hanover-Square, March 10, 1792. “ Sir, “ At your request I send you some account of the following case, and am Your most obedient Servant, “James Earle. “ John Smith, about fifty years of age, was received into St. Bartho- lomew’s Hospital on account of a fever. After having been under the care of the physician some time, he complained of a swelling and pain in his left leg, for which I was desired to visit him. He said, about six months before he had fallen from a scaffold ; that his leg was caught be- tween the rounds of a ladder, which broke his fall; that he felt imme- diately pain in the upper part of his leg; soon after it began to swell, and had gradually increased to its present size. On examination there appeared a large hard swelling under the heads of the gastrocnemii muscles, reaching up to the bend of the leg. A pulsation was plainly to be felt in it, and there was no doubt of its being an aneurism. It ■was now increasing very fast in size ; the tumour, by its pressure, caused exquisite pain, all the lower part of the leg was loaded with cedematous swelling, and it became, absolutely necessary to perform some operation to prevent a mortification taking place. “ Having noticed with much satisfaction the success which attended Mr. Hunter’s method of tying the artery in the thigh, in a similar case, I decided in favour of that operation; but as, in the present instance, the artery appeared to be in its natural and perfect state in the ham, and in its whole course, till it reached the dilatation below the knee, I preferred taking it up in that part, rather than to tie it in the middle of the thigh, under the sartorius muscle, though it lies there more super- ficial, and more easily to be got at; because I thought the chance of the circulation being carried on was equal, if not greater, and if it should fail, and symptoms should occur to create a suspicion of an impending mortification, there might be an opportunity of removing the limb above the ligature, which would be impracticable if the artery was tied in the middle of the thigh. '* Jan. 28, 1792. The patient being laid on his face, and the tourni- quet loosely applied, I made an incision about five inches long, in the direction of the artery, wfithin those tendons which compose the inner ham-string. 1 then gradually separated the cellular substance; in doing this the nerve was exposed, which ran in its usual course, external to the artery, and much more superficial. In finding the artery some dif-