102 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. answer some good purpose ; yet, upon a more particular view of this subject, we may find it difficult to assign causes for this selection of the blood; for in many animals we find parts similar in construction and use, such as muscles, which are furnished, some with the whole blood, others with the coagulating lymph only, with all the gradations ; some animals having both red and white muscles, others having them wholly red, and others wholly white, as will be more fully explained. Even venous blood can be rendered useful when it is not to answer the pur- pose of nourishment; for we find the blood of the intestines and spleen going to the liver, we may presume, for the secretion of the bile, as has been already observed (p. 86.). The idea of particular kinds of blood being sent to parts having par- ticular uses, more especially where the part is employed solely in dis- posing of this fluid, such as glands, is now, I believe, pretty well ex- ploded ; and it is supposed therefore that the whole mass of blood is such as to be fitted for all the purposes of the machine. This idea gives to the parts themselves full power over the blood so composed, and makes us consider the circulation or motion of the blood simplya. As the blood is composed of different parts, it might be supposed that if any particular part had been expended in any process, the re- mainder, as returned by the veins, would show this by its different ap- pearance or qualities. The only visible difference that I could conceive to take place was in the appearance or quantity of coagulating lymph. To ascertain this, however, I made the following experiments. Exp. 1. I opened the right side of the thorax in a living dog, and tied a ligature round the vena-cava inferior, above the diaphragm. I then ap- plied my hand upon the opening, which allowed him to breathe, that the circulation might go on and fill the larger veins. When the inferior vena- " [It seems extraordinary that the question, whether the blood sent to any1 one part of the body differs from that sent to any other part, should ever have been agitated. (See note, p. 73.) But to assign distinct and appropriate offices to the several elements of the blood in the functions of secretion, nutrition, &c., is altogether another question, which may plausibly enough be entertained. The observations of Bauer, Prevost and Dumas, and, lastly, of Milne Edwards, on the globules of the blood and several of the animal secretions, agreeing in this respect with the apparent globular constitution of the animal tissues, seemed for a time to establish a simple system of homogenesis of structure for the whole body, consisting, on the one hand, of an infinity of elementary molecules diffbsed through the nutritive fluids of plants and animals, and on the other hand, of these same molecules arranged in definite but diversified manners, so as to constitute the various tissues of the body. Unfortunately, however, for the beauty of this hypothesis, the very fact of the globular constitution of the animal tissues has been recently denied by Hodgkin and Lister. {Phil. Mag. and Annals, Aug. 1827, and also App. to Tr. of Ed- wards’s Influence of External Agents on Life, &c.) Tiedemann also affirms the same thing, and says that even where organic particles do exist they present various forms and sizes, and are unlike those of the blood {Phys., tr. by Gully and Lane, p. 397.). So far, therefore, as relates to the use of the globular particles we are just as much in the