GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. so with a strong effervescence ; but it forms at length into a jelly or paste, although not a solid one. Here I suspect that the salt is evaporated, and likewise the water in the paste, so that it is not a true coagulation. . hen mixed with common water it is coagulated by heat; but the water separates Avith the other substance, and does not unite with the coagulum. Upon the coagulation of the serum by heat I have observed that it separates a fluid which is not coagulable by heat, and I have reason to believe by none of the other means, viz. spirits of wine, &c., though this is not so easily ascertained; for the other coagulating substances, as spirits of wine, &c., are applied in a fluid form, and therefore a fluid may remain after the coagulation of the serum, which might be supposed to be the fluid separated; but from other experiments it is proved that those substances coagulate the coagulating part and unite with the other. It is also observable in meat, either roasted or boiled, that when cut there flows from it a fluid more or less tinged with the red part, com- monly called gravy. I conceived that this must be different from the coagulating part of the serum, believing that the heat had been sufficient to coagulate it; but I chose to try it further, and therefore gave it such heat as would have produced the effect if it had been coagulable by heat; but I found it did not coagulate. The fluid separated from the coagu- lable part of the serum, I conceived to be the same with this. Thus then I saw there was in the serum a matter coagulable by heat, and a fluid which was not so. Pursuing the above observations on dressed meat, I observed that the older the animal had been, the more of this fluid was contained in the meat. In lamb we have hardly any of it, in young mutton of a year old but little; but in mutton of three, four, five, or six years old it is in large quantity : in veal also we have but little, while we have it in great quantity in beef. But perhaps we know less in general of the age of our beef than of our mutton*.B Poultry is commonly killed young in this country, therefore we have not the comparative trials; but in wild fowl, and what is commonly * It may be observed here that this is very different from the jelly formed in boiling or roasting meat; that which forms the jelly is part of the meat itself, dissolved down in this very fluid, and the water in which it is boiled ; and we find that this effect is just the reverse of the above, for in young meat there is most of this jelly. ■ [This fluid, which is termed the serosity, may be obtained from the coagulum by gentle expression. It contains a little muriate of soda, a little free alkali, and about i one fiftieth of its weight of animal matter, principally albumen, which is immediately j coagulated by galvanism or the mineral acids. Brande supposes that the albumen is | held in solution in this case, as in the serum, by virtue of the free alkali which is pre- sent ; but Dr. Bostock has objected to this view of the case, for reasons which have