598 ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. the tumour is large, the ligature is commonly applied on the artery at that part where it emerges from the muscles. This mode of performing the operation will be found inadequate, if the disease of the artery ex- tends above the sac ; for if the artery should afterwards give way, there will not be a sufficient length of vessel remaining to allow of its being again secured in the ham. To follow the artery up, through the inser- tion of the triceps muscle, to get at a portion of it where it is sound, becomes a very disagreeable part of the operation.; and to make an in- cision upon the fore part of the thigh, to get at and secure the femoral artery, would be breaking new ground : a thing to be avoided, if pos- sible, in all operations. Mr. Hunter, from having made these observations, was led to propose, that in this operation the artery should be taken up in the anterior part ol the thigh, at some distance from the diseased part, so as to diminish the^risk of haemorrhage, and admit of the artery being more readily se- cured, should any such accident happen. The force of the circulation being thus taken off from the aueurismal sac, the progress of the disease would be stopped; and he thought it probable, that if the parts were left to themselves, the sac, with its contents, might be absorbed, and the whole of the tumour removed, which would render any opening into the sac unnecessary. , Upon this principle Mr. Hunter performed the operation at St. George’s Hospital. . , 'ilie patient was a coachman, forty-five years of age ; he was admitted into the hospital in December 1785, with a popliteal aneurism, which he had first perceived three years previous to his admission, and had observed it gradually to increase during the whole of that period. It was so large as to distend the two hamstrings laterally, and make a very considerable rising between them; the pulsation was very distinct, and to be felt on every side of the tumour. The leg and foot of that side were so swelled as to be much thicker than the other, and were of a. mottled brown colour; the swelling was not of the ccdcmatous kind, but felt firm and brawny, probably from the extravasation of coagulable lymph ; the leg retained its natural shape, excepting that it was larger. Previous to performing the operation, a tourniquet was applied upon the upper part of the thigh, but not tightened, that the parts might be left as much in their natural situation as possible. The operation was begun by making an incision on the anterior and inner part of the thigh, rather below its middle, which incision was con- tinued obliquely across the inner edge of the sartorius muscle, and made large, to give room for the better performing of whatever might be thought necessary in the course of the operation. The fascia which