ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 595 and forms layers or strata upon the inside of this sac. As the enlarge- ment of the sac depends entirely on the force with which the blood is acted on by the heart, it does not, as at first, continue to swell out at right angles from the side of the artery, but is increased in a diagonal line between that and the course of the artery itself, from the force of. the blood being applied in that direction; so that the sac is protruded, along the outside of the artery, and by its pressure upon it obliterates, in many instances, the lower orifice, which communicates with the ar- tery, and produces a total stagnation of the blood in the sac. If the coats of an artery' are examined in the commencement of this disease, the first appearance is a loss of the natural lustre and transpa- rency of its internal membrane, that becoming opake, afterwards thicker, acquiring a leather-like appearance; and when the sac becomes larger the coats retain no longer a resemblance to those of an arterv, but have more that of a membranous bag, communicating laterally' with the ar- tery by a rounded orifice, of different sizes, the margin of which re- sembles the internal membrane of an artery', in a thickened state ; but beyond that gradually degenerates into a membranous substance. 1 he popliteal aneurism, which we are at present to consider, is the disease above mentioned, affecting the trunk of the popliteal artery, which runs down between the two hamstrings of the thigh. From the situ- ation of the tumour, on whatever side of the artery' the dilatation is produced, it will be distinctly felt in the hollow between the hamstrings, and will be readily ascertained by a pulsation to be felt in every- part of the tumour : it seems to be one of the most frequent situations of aneu- rism ; and though it may be difficult to ascertain whether it occurs so commonly as in the aorta itself, it is certainly found oftener in this ar- tery than m any other branch which the aorta sends off*. Tliis circum- • [The following table*, from Mr. Hodgson’s Treatise on the Diseases of Arteries and of !he body'. MlUb‘t,tile coraParative frequency of aneurisms in .the different arteries Of the ascending aorta, the arteria innominata. and the arch of the aorta. . Males. 16 Females. Total. Arch of the descending aorta... 7 0 1 1 1 8 subclavian and axillary arteries — inguinal arteries 2 5 12 14 ••• 2 5 femoral and popliteal arteries 1 12 r • - 56 7 63 • [This table does not include aneurisms arising from wounded arteries, or aneurisms >m anastomosis.] aneurisms 2 q 2