8 INTRODUCTION. which terminate in mortification there is no increase of power*, but on the contrary a diminution of it. This, when joined to an increased action, becomes a cause of mortification, by destroying the balance which ought to subsist between the power and action of every part. There are, besides, cases of mortification preceded by inflammation, which do not arise wholly from that as a cause, but rather seem to have some- thing in their nature; of this kind is the carbuncle, and the slough formed in the smallpox pustule. If this account of mortifications arising from no specific nature be just, we shall find it no difficult matter to establish a rational mode of cure; but before we attempt this, let us take a view of the treatment which has been hitherto recommended, and see how far it agrees with our theory. It is plain, from the common practice, that the weakness has been attended to; but it is plain that the increased action has been overlooked : and therefore the whole aim has been to increase the action in order to remove the weakness. The Peruvian bark, confectio cardi- aca, serpentaria, &c. have been given in large quantities, as the case appeared to require, or the constitution could bear, by which means an artificial or temporary appearance of strength has been produced, while it was only an increased action. Cordials and wine, upon the principle on which they have been given, are rationally administered; but there are strong reasons for not recommending them, arising from the general effect which they possess of increasing the action without giving real strength. The powers of the body are by this treatment sunk afterwards in the same proportion as they had been raised, by which nothing can be gained, but a great deal may be lost; for, in all cases, if the powers are allowed to sink below a certain point, they are irre- coverable. The local treatment has been as absurd as the constitutional. Sca- rifications have been made down to the living parts, that stimulating and antiseptic medicines might be applied to them, as turpentines, the warmer balsams, and sometimes the essential oils. Warm fomentations have been also applied, as being congenial to life; but warmth always increases action, and therefore should be well adjusted to the case : on the other hand, cold debilitates or lessens powers when carried too far, but at first lessens action. Stimulants likewise are improper where the actions are already too violent. “ [By “power” I apprehend, is here signified the resistance which is offered by a living part to disorganization and death. By the expression, “ the powers of a part, is generally meant the sum of the vital actions going on in that part, as circulation, growth, secretion, &c. Mr. Hunter employs the expression in a less complex sense, so as simply to express by it the degree and prevalence of the vital principle.]