UNION BY TIIE FIRST INTENTION. 26G When the inflammation has gone through its stages, then the parts should be allowed to dry. This in many parts is very awkward, as when a large surface of the body is scalded; for exposure is necessary, and in some parts it is almost impossible, as behind the ears, arm-pits, &c. To keep the cloths from sticking to the parts, it is necessary to powder them with some inoffensive powder, such as lapis calaminaris, very finely powdered chalk, &c.; this does not hinder evaporation, which is the prin- ciple of scabbing ; and if the discharge should be so much at first as to moisten the first powdering, then strew more over the whole till it forms a hard crust. This is hardly necessary on the face, but it w ill rather dry sooner by being at first powdered. In such cases nature will go on infinitely further than if the parts had been disturbed by our applications. ยง.5. Accidents attended with death in a superficial part. In the foregoing account of injuries done to the body, and of the modes of restoration, we have been so far from considering inflamma- tion as one of them, tliat hitherto it has been inculcated to guard against it with the utmost care. It sometimes, however, takes place, and is one of the modes of restoration when the methods above mentioned fail, as well as a mode of restoring parts under disease. We shall therefore proceed to explain its principle ; but as there are accidents, already mentioned, which often advance to suppuration, I shall now treat of them. Among the divisions of accidents, one is where death is produced in the injured parts, and where inflammation and suppuration must take place, in consequence of the dead parts w'hich separate not being w ithin the power of the former treatment to produce a cure; but it should be remembered that the inflammation, which is the forerunner of suppura- tion in such cases, is not nearly so great as even the inflammation arising from a wound that suppurates. In many accidents, such as bruises, the skin preserves its living pow ers, while the cellular membrane underneath has become dead ; this will aftenvards produce an abscess, and must be treated as abscesses commonly are, remembering that in the present case the abscess, after being opened, wTill be later in acquiring the healing disposition than abscesses commonly are ; the dead cellular membrane must separate, which will come away like wet dirty lint. It sometimes happens that in one part the skin, in another the cel- lular membrane only, shall become dead ; and in such cases I have often observed that the bruised skin sloughs much sooner than the cellular membrane. An abscess, therefore, is frequently forming under the sound skin w hile the other par ts are healing : a circumstance which often dis- appoints both the patient and surgeon.