490 GRANULATIONS. principle was taken notice of when we were treating of abscesses coming towards the skin. §. 1. Of Granulations independent of Suppuration. lhe formation of granulations, I have observed, is not wholly con- fined to a breach made in the solids, either by external violence and ex- posure, or in consequence of a breach in the solids, which had been produced by suppuration and ulceration, and afterwards exposed; for parts arc capable of forming granulations, or what I suppose to be the same thing, new animal matter, where a breach has been made inter- nally, and where it ought to have healed by the first intention; but the parts being baulked in that operation, often do not reach so far as sup- puration, so as to produce the most common cause of granulation. The first instance of the kind that gave me this idea was in a man who died in St. George’s Hospital. January, 1777. A man about fifty years of age fell and broke his thigh-bone nearly across, and about six inches above the lower end. He was taken into St. George’s Hospital; the thigh was bound up, and put into splints, etc. lhe union between the two bones did not seem to take place in the usual time. He was taken ill with a complaint in his chest, which he had been subject to before, and died between three and four weeks after the accident. On examining the parts after death there were found little or no ef- fects of inflammation in the soft parts surrounding the broken bones, except close to the bones where the adhesive inflammation had taken place only in a small degree. The bones were found to ride consider- ably, viz. near three inches. The cavity made in the soft parts, in con- sequence of the laceration made by the riding of the bones, had its pa- i ietes thickened and pretty solid, by means of the adhesive inflammation, although not so much as would have been the case if the parts had been better disposed for inflammation ; and some parts had become bonv. There hardly was found within this cavity any extravasated blood or coagulating lymph, except a few pretty loose fibres like strings, which were visibly the remains of the extravasated blood. From these ap- pearances this cavity had evidently lost its first bond of union, viz. the extravasated blood, which took place from the ruptured vessels; and probably the second had never taken place, viz. the coagulating lymph, in consequence of the adhesive inflammation : however, there was an attempt towards a union, for the surrounding soft parts, we have ob- served, had taken on the adhesive and ossific inflammation, so that in