CONSEQUENCES ON TIIE CONSTITUTION. 5U four days after; yet in such cases no symptoms appear till the matter begins to have its specific effects, and these very symptoms are not si- milar to those which are called hectic. From reasoning, we ought to expect that the venereal matter would act with greater violence than the common matter from a healthy sore. Although matter, too, is fre- quently formed on the inside of the veins in cases of inflammation of their cavities*, and this matter cannot fail of getting into the circulation, yet in these cases we have not the hectic disposition, but only the in- flammatory, and sometimes death. We likewise find very large collec- tions of matter, which have been produced without visible inflammation, such as many of the scrofulous kind, and which are wholly absorbed, even in a very short time, yet no bad symptoms follow f. We may therefore from hence conclude, that the absorption of pus from a soie into the circulation cannot be a cause of so much mischief as is generally supposed; and if it was owing to matter in the consti- tution, I do not see how these symptoms could ever cease till suppura- tion ceased, which does not readily happen in such constitutions, their sores being tedious in healing. We find, however, that such patients, often get well of the hectic before suppuration ceases, even when no medicine was given ; and in the case of veins there is great reason to believe that after all the bad symptoms arc removed, suppuration is still going on, as we find it so in a sore; pus may therefore still pass into the constitution from the veins, and yet the hectic may not be produced, which would certainly be the case if those bad symptoms were occa- sioned by the matter getting into the circulation. But I very much doubt the fact of absorption going on more in one sore than another; and if ever it does I think it is of no consequence; I am much more in- clined to believe that this hectic disposition arises from the effect which irritation of a vital organ and some other parts, such as joints (being either incurable in themselves, or being so to the constitution for a time), have on the constitution. We may remark, that in large abscesses which have not been preceded by inflammation, the hectic disposition seldom or never comes on till after they are opened (although they may have been forming matter for months); but in such cases the disposition often comes on soon after opening, and in others very late. Till the stimulus for restoring parts. is given, no such effect can take place; and if the parts arc well disposed \ idc Paper entitled “Observations on the Internal Coats of Veins,” at the end of this volume. t It may, however, he objected to this, that this is not true matter or pus; but it may be necessary to show that the one affects the constitution upon absorption more than the other.