187 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. fill them. From observation the fourth, it would appear that any idea we form of the size of a heart, from those in dead bodies, must be far from the truth ; for the blood coming from every part of the body to the heart, in some measure distends it while it is in a relaxed state, so that when the heart begins to contract (as muscles do some time after death), it is kept dilated by the contained blood'1. However, it may be panied with an influx of blood from the auricles, by which the ventricles re-expand, but the apex collapses and retires from the side. 8. “ After the diastole the ventricles remain quiescent, and in a state of apparently natural fulness, until again stimulated by the succeeding auricular contraction. “ Of the Sounds*. 9. “ The first sound is caused by the systole of the ventricles. 10. “ The second sound is occasioned by the diastole of the ventricles. “ Of the Rhythm. 11. “ Order of succession: “ 1. The auricular systole. “ 2. The ventricular systole—pulse and impulse. “ 3. The ventricular diastole. “ 4. The interval of ventricular repose, towards the termination of which the auricular systole takes place. “ Duration. 12. “ This is the same as indicated by Laennec, viz. “ The ventricular systole occupies half the time, or thereabout, of a whole beat. “ The ventricular diastole occupies one fourth, or at most one third. “ The interval of repose occupies one fourth, or rather less. “ The auricular systole occupies a portion of the interval of repose.” With regard to the double sound, which, it may be observed, is distinctly isochronous with the systole and diastole of the ventricles, various opinions have been entertained ; nor indeed can the question be considered as perfectly decided at the present moment. Thus, the first sound has been variously ascribed to the rush of blood into the great ar- teries, to the closing of the auriculo-ventricular valves, to the muscular contraction of the heart, and to the collision of the particles of fluid in the ventricles. The second sound has also been ascribed to the reaction of the arterial columns of blood against the semilunar valves, thus suddenly tightening these bodies; and to the impulse of the blood from the auricles refilling the ventricles. (See Path, and Diag. of Diseases of the Chest, 3rd edit. p. 163., by Dr. C. J. B. Williams; Mr. Turner in Med. Chir. Trs. of Edin., iii.; Dr. Corrigan in Trs. of King’s and Queen’s Coll, of Phys. of Ireland (New Se- ries), i. 151.; 71/. Majendie in Lancet, 1834-5. i.; and Mr. Carlile in Dubl. Journ. of Med. Sc., iv. 84.)] a [This observation applies particularly to the right or pulmonic side of the heart, which was hence incorrectly concluded by Haller to be ^tha more capacious than the left. The left cavities are generally found nearly empty after death ; but during life it is probable that both ventricles have the same capacity. It is certain that they pro- ject the same quantity of blood in a given time, and therefore, if one is larger than an- other it must empty itself less perfectly at each systole.] * The sound which is heard when the car is applied to the region of the heart of a healthy person, is double, consisting of a dull slow sound, immediately followed by a short quick one.