OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 408 to slow and specific diseases, as, for example, the breasts of women, or the testicles of men; for if these parts inflame quickly the effects will be more salutary than if they inflamed slowly. In other words, those parts are capable of being affected by the common suppurative inflam- mation, which in most cases terminates well. Perhaps the specific in- flammation is slow in its progress and operation, and such slowness marks it to be an inflammation of some specific kind. In whatever light we view this fact it at least leads us with more certainty to what the effects of an inflammation will be, and thus often to form a just pro- gnostic. Suppuration takes place much more readily in internal canals than internal cavities. Suppuration takes place more readily upon the surface of canals than in either the cellular or investing membrane. The same cause which would produce a suppuration in the first parts, would only produce the adhesive inflammation in the other; for instance, if a bougie is intro- duced into the urethra for a few hours, it will produce suppuration; while, if a bougie was introduced into either the tunica vaginalis testis, or the abdomen, but for a few hours, it would only give the disposition for adhesions, and even might not go the length of exciting this stage of inflammation in so short a time ; but such surfaces often produce a greater variety of matter than a sore: it is not always pus: and this probably arises from the cause not being so easily got rid of. An ir- ritation in the bladder, from stone, stricture in the urethra, or disease of the bladder itself, gives us a great variety of matter; pus, mucus, slime, are often all found; sometimes only one or two of them. I have some idea that the mucus is easiest of production; but I am certain that for the formation of slime the greatest irritation is required. ยง. 1. The Symptoms of the Suppurative Inflammation. This inflammation has symptoms common to inflammation in general, but it has these in a greater degree than the inflammation leading to it, and has also some symptoms peculiar to itself; it therefore becomes necessary to be particular in our description of these peculiarities. The sensations arising from a disease generally convey some idea of its nature; the suppurative inflammation gives us as much as possible the idea of simple pain, without having a relation to any other mode of sensation : we cannot annex an epithet to it, but it will vary in some de- gree according to the nature of the parts going into suppuration ; and what was remarked, when treating of the adhesive state, is in some dc-