215 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. : mesenteric, likewise of tlie same length; the last section weighed one [grain more than the other, the highest amounting to six grains, the Howest to seven. A section of the lower end of the aorta, including a :portion of the two iliacs, was weighed against a section of the two :iliacs, which was equal in length, and these were found to weigh rather ^heavier. By the above is confirmed what I formerly asserted, that an artery not giving off" branches does not increase so fast as another which does iif we include all the branches. From all that has been said it appears that there must be a much .greater quantity of blood in a feetus than an adult in proportion to their difference of size; and that the heart must be larger and stronger, in ^proportion, to move this blood, which will probably still circulate in the - smaller vessels with less velocity. The whole of these differences between the foetus and the adul t must be intended for the purposes of growth: and indeed we may discern the necessity of it; for if a child was not more vascular in proportion • to its size than the adult, its growth, we might conceive, would only be : in proportion to the number of its vessels, which would be twelve times Hess than they are, for a new-born child is only one twelfth in size to ! tliat of an adult. A child would, therefore, grow faster and faster every ’year, for instance, in proportion to its size, as the vessels would become i numerous in that proportion. But this is not really the case, for chil- dren grow less and less every year in proportion to their size, only adding their first year’s growth to themselves every succeeding year; though, perhaps, not quite so much, as the vessels rather decrease in number. That this is the case may be proved by taking the eye for an ex- ample, which grows more the first year .after conception than it does any year afterwards; so that the disproportion between the vessels of this part, in those two states, is particularly great. The growth of an animal is, therefore, in proportion to the number of its capillary vessels. As the body grows, the vessels elongate to keep pace with that growth, the capillary vessels at last come to a stand, and the arterial system is daily losing ground. The heart grows in proportion to the increased length of arteries, that it may be able to throw the blood through the whole, but not in proportion to the size of the whole body, because the vessels do not increase in number or size in proportion to the size of the body. But as the heart increases only in proportion to the size of the whole vas- cular system, while the body increases faster and more, the heart can- not be in proportion to the size of the whole body, hence its action must in time lose the power of elongating the body; and become merely