278 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. The inflammation, if in vital parts, will be still leas manageable; for although the parts themselves may have pretty strong powers, yet the constitution, and the natural operations of universal health, become so much affected that no salutary effect can so readily take place, and therefore the disease becomes less manageable. If the vital part is the stomach, or such as the stomach readily sympathises with, inflammation in such parts will be still less manageable, for no operation can go on well, cither in the stomach, or in other parts where this viscus is affected, as the powers of restoration become weaker than ever. In weak constitutions, although the inflammation be in parts which admit of the most salutary operations in the time of the disease, and in situations the most favourable to restoration after disease, yet the operations of inflammation are proportionably more backward as to their salutary effects in such constitutions, and more or less according to the nature of the parts affected, which I shall now consider more fully. ยง. 2. Effects of strength or tcea/cness of Constitution, and of Parts, while under Inflammation. Whatever is to be the consequence of injuries, especially inflammation, is produced much more readily in a strong constitution than in a weak one. A wound, for instance, made upon a person of a healthy constitu- tion and sound parts will unite almost at once : it admits readily of a union by the first intention. A greater strength of constitution and of parts admits of resolution, while in the adhesive state of inflammation, very readily, and therefore tends much to prevent the suppurative in- flammation from taking place, for it gives a better disposition to heal by the adhesive; so that the union of parts by the first intention, the in- flammation and resolution, as well as the readiness to change from the one to the other, according as the preceding is prevented, depends equally upon the strength and health of the constitution and parts inflamed. We may also observe that a greater strength and soundness of the con- stitution or parts inflamed, when the inflammation has got beyond the stage of resolution and has assumed the disposition for suppuration, hastens on inflammation and suppuration, and also brings it soon to a termination, while at the same time the matter is brought more quickly the effects of disease affecting the different tissues (as, for example, the serous) without actual observation; a remark equally applicable to the therapeutic part of the art, and worthy of the attention of those who build the knowledge of their profession too exclu- sively on the investigation of diseased appearances and on mere anatomical and physio- logical acquirements-]