UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 247 infants, yet ecchyraosis does not terminate alike favourably in other ■ cases, the tumour often remaining for a considerable time without un- i dergoing any change, and after months sometimes disappearing, but at other times inflaming and suppurating. When an extravasation of blood takes place between the scalp and head, in consequence of a blow, which is very common, and continues • fluid, we find a kind of ridge all round the bag, and by pressing all round :the edge of the bag the finger sinks, so as to give distinctly (as we con- ceive) the feeling of a depressed bone; but this feeling of depression (following the edge of the ecchymosis all round, is a proof that it cannot ■ be depression of the bone, because no depression could be so regular, nor would any depression be of the same extent with the ecchymosis. The edge of the scalp surrounding the ecchymosis seems to be raised, and I believe it is; if so, then something similar to the adhesive inflammation .must have taken place to set bounds to the extent of the bag, and to hinder the blood from getting into the cellular membrane. It might, ; perhaps, be the best practice to make a small opening into such tumours ■ with a lancet, and by letting out the blood, get the sides of the cavity to heal by the first intention". When the parts inflame and suppurate, ■ the case is to be treated as an abscess. This sometimes disapjiears by resolution ; but this being seldom per- mitted, the ecchymosis is reduced either to the state of a fresh wound, which is allowed to suppurate, or an abscess; for surgeons are induced to open early by seeing an inflammation and feeling a fluctuation, two •strong motives when every circumstance is not well attended to; but in such cases I should wait till I observed evident signs of suppuration, viz. the thinning of the skin over the matter, and pointing of the con- tents, which are the only true marks of the formation of matter, as well as of its coming near the skin. If the blow should have deadened a part of the skin, then a separation of the slough will take place, and expose this cavity so as to produce suppuration. And this is to be considered as a step still further re- moved from the most simple species of injury than where the blood co- agulates. I am not able, under such circumstances, decidedly to say which is the best practice, whether to leave the slough to separate, or to make a small opening and allow the blood to escape slowly from the cavity. In both kinds of ecchymosis, when inflammation has taken place in [It can rarely be necessary to interfere with these cases, which generally ilo well under a simple treatment. The liability of the scalp to erysipelatous inflammation renders it particularly inexpedient to make any breach of the surface.]