OF PUF. 447 holes. At seven, next morning, which was twenty-two hours, there was found in the canula common pus. From the experiments on internal surfaces, it would appear that pus was formed coeval with its secretion ; hut from Mr. Home’s experiments {op. cit., p. 51,) it would rather appear that the globules were not formed till some time after secretion, and this sooner or later, according to cir- cumstances, which we probably do not know. So far these experiments explain the progress of suppuration on in- ternal surfaces, and I shall now give its progress on the cutis, when deprived of its cuticle, from Mr. Home’s Dissertation on that subject, before mentioned. “ I applied a blistering plaster of the size of a half-crown piece to the pit of the stomach of a healthy young man. In eight hours a blister arose, which was opened, and the contents removed; they were fluid, transparent, and coagulated by heat; had no appearance of globules when examined by the microscope, and in every respect resembled the serum of blood. The cuticle was not removed, but allowed to collapse, and the fluid which was formed upon the surface of the cutis was ex- amined from time to time by a microscope, to determine as accurately as possible the changes which took place. “ The better to do this, as the quantity in the intervals stated below must be exceedingly small, a piece of talc, very thin and transparent, was applied to the whole surface, and covered with an adhesive plaster; and the surface of the talc applied to the skin was removed and ex- amined by the microscope, applying a fresh piece of talc after every examination, to prevent any mistake which might have arisen from the surface not being quite clean. “ 'flie fluid was examined by the microscope, to ascertain its appear- ance ; but as the aqueous part in which the globules of pus swim is found by experiment to coagulate by adding to it a saturated solution of sal ammoniac, which is not the case w-ith the serum of the blood nor the transparent part of the milk, I considered this as a property peculiar to pus; and consequently that it w’ould be a very good test by which to ascertain the presence of true pus. “ In eight hours from the time the blister was applied the fluid dis- charged was perfectly transparent, and did not coagulate with the solu- tion of sal ammoniac. Isine hours : The discharge was less transparent, but free from the appearance of globules. Ten hours: The discharge contained globules, which were very small, and few in number. Eleven hours: The globules were numerous, but still the fluid did not coagu- late with the solution of sal ammoniac. Twelve hours: The appear- ance much the same-as before. Fourteen hours : The globules a little