OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 189 for many of its phenomena, yet not for all, for a local stimulus merely is too mechanical to produce all the variety attending the action of this 1 viscus ; it would not be attended with that regularity which it has in ; health, nor that irregularity which we find in disease; neither could it j ever stop, unless when absolute death took place ; nor resume its action if it ever did stop. We find that those parts which have occasion for the ; immediate stimulus to produce action, have that action very irregular, j as, for instance, the bladder of urine and intestines. The bladder is I taking up its action as simply for itself, and not secondarily, however beneficial that might be for the whole in a secondary degree ; but the heart’s actions arise from its being so much part of the whole, as that the whole immediately depends upon it; therefore we must look out for another cause of this regular alternate action of the heart than that arising from mechanism or mechanical impression; something more im- mediately connected with the general laws of the animal ceconomy. The alternate contraction and relaxation of the heart constitutes a part of the circulation ; and the whole takes place in consequence of a : necessity, the constitution demanding it, and becoming the stimulus. It is rather, therefore, the want of repletion, which makes a negative ; impression on the constitution, which becomes the stimulus, than the i immediate impression of something applied to the heart. This we see to be the case wherever a constant supply, or some kind of aid, is wanted in consequence of some action; we have as regularly the stimulus for respiration, the moment one is finished, an immediate demand taking place; and if prevented (as this action is under the in- fluence of the will), the stimulus of want is increased. We have the stimulus of want of food, which takes place regularly in health ; and so it is with the circulation. The heart, we find, cannot rest one i stroke, but the- constitution feels it; even the mind and the heart is thereby stimulated to action. The constant want in the constitution of this action in the heart, is as much as the constant action of the spring of a clock is to its pendulum, all hanging or depending on each other1. * [This is another of those instances in which the author has mistaken the final for the proximate cause. The feeling of hunger is obviously not the cause of the action of the muscles of deglutition, nor the sense of present danger the cause of a man’s changing his position ; neither is “ want of repletion” the immediate cause of the heart's action. The final cause it may be, but it cannot be the immediate. In treating the question of the heart’s action, two points require consideration : 1st, what is the source whence the muscular fibres of this organ derive their suscepti- bility of alternate contraction and relaxation; 2nd, what is the immediate cause which excites them to action. I. With regard to the first of these points, though physiologists have, with few ex- ceptions, attributed this susceptibility to nervous influence, they have differed greatly