35 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. in the irregular or unhealthy it does. The healthy menses, therefore, show a peculiar action of the constitution; and it is most probably in this action that their salubrious purposes consist; for if twice the usual quantity is evacuated, with the power of coagulation, even from the same vessels, the same benefit is not produced, much less when taken away from another part by art®. Many substances, when mixed with the blood, prevent coagulation; bile has this effect out of the body; but we cannot suppose that in a living body it can be taken into the blood in such quantity as to produce this effect; for we find in a very severe jaundice that the blood is still capable of coagulating strongly. That probably every' inanimate fluid in nature, which is capable of being rendered solid, produces heat during that change, and in the con- trary change cold, is commonly known. It is on this principle that Dr. Black has established his very ingenious theory of latent heat. Thus, in the freezing of water heat is produced. To see how far the coagulation of the blood was similar in this re- spect to the same change in other substances, I first coagulated the white of an egg, by applying to it rectified spirits of wine : the heat of both was the same before their union ; but I found, upon uniting them, that the white of the egg was immediately coagulated, and that the heat of the mixture was increased four, sometimes five degrees, according as it coagulated slow'ly or quicklyb. As the blood in the animals upon which we most commonly make our experiments is warm, it becomes a difficult matter to ascertain whether it produces heat upon coagulation. In holding the ball of the thermometer in the stream of blood coming from the arm, I found the heat raised to 92° : I then took a cup of human blood, allowed it to co- agulate, and put it up to the brim in water warmed to 92°, till the whole mass was heated to this point. I bled afterwards another person to the same quantity, in a similar cup, which was put into the same water. Having two well-regulated thermometers, one in each cup of blood, I observed which cooled first, for I did not expect so much heat to be produced in the second as to make it warmer, but conceived, if any heat * [The healthy menstrual discharge, which is probably a true secretion, does not co- agulate, because it contains no globules or fibrin. Brande found that “it had the pro- perties of a very concentrated solution of the colouring matter of the blood in a diluted serum.” {Phil. Trans. 1812, p. 113.) Unhealthy menstruation is attended with actual hemorrhage.] b [The disengagement of caloric in this case is to be ascribed to the union of the water contained in the albumen with the spirits of wine, and the consequent conden- sation which takes place. Albumen coagulated by dilute nitric acid does not evolve any heat.]