503 OF SKINNING. inflammation being a clog upon the operations of the original; and the new matter not being endowed with the same powers, the part affected, taken as a whole, is by these means considerably weakened. Motion given to the part so affected must be mechanical; but that motion becomes a stimulant to the parts moved, that they cannot exist under such motion without adapting the structure of the parts to it, and this sets the absorbents to work, or they receive the stimulus of neces- sity, and absorb all the adventitious or rather superfluous substance; by which means the parts are as much as possible reduced to their original texture. Medicines have not the powers we could wish in many such cases : mercury, however, appears to have the power of producing a stimulus similar to motion, and should be made use of where a mechanical sti- mulus cannot be applied ; and I believe, when joined with camphor, its powers of producing absorption are increased : when both medical and mechanical means can be used, so much the more benefit will ensue. When everything else fails, electricity might be tried. It has been the cause of absorption of tumours. It has reduced the swellings of many joints in consequence of sprains, and thereby allowed of the freedom of motion. The new-formed cutis is at first very thin and extremely tender, but afterwards becomes firmer and thicker: it is a smooth continued skin, not formed with those insensible indentations which are observed in the natural or original skin, and by which the original admits of any disten- tion the cellular membrane will allow of, as is experienced in many dropsies, white swellings in the joints, &c. This is proved by steeping a piece of dead skin, with a cicatrix in it, in water, to make the cuticle separate from the cutis ; there we find that the new-formed cuticle be- comes but little larger by such a process, which plainly shows that the new-formed cutis upon which this cuticle was formed, has a pretty smooth continued surface, and not that soft unequal surface which distinguishes the original cutis. This new cutis, and indeed all the substance which had been formerly granulations, is not nearly so strong, nor endowed with such lasting and proper actions, as the originally-formed parts. The living principle itself is also not nearly so active ; for when an old sore once breaks out, it con- tinues to yield till almost the whole of the new-formed matter has been absorbed or mortified, as has been already explained. The young cutis is extremely full of vessels, which afterwards, in a great measure, either become lymphatic or impervious, or arc taken into the constitution, so that the skin and granulations underneath are at last irec from visible vessels, and become white.