393 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. plied to the diseased part, or would increase it. This arises from the dissimilar actions of the two parts ; that is, the diseased actions of the one being similar0 to, or producing the actions of recovery in the other; nor is it difficult to conceive why it should be so; for since the medi- cines are not specifics, but only invite or remove the disease by that connexion which the living powers of the one part have with those of another, it is reasonable to suppose that this principle of action between the parts must be much stronger than the effects of many medicines which have only a tendency to cure, or perhaps no tendency that way at all. Thus we find that vomits will often cure inflammations of the testicles when all soothing applications prove ineffectual, and when the same emetic could not have the least effect on the part itself were it ap- plied to it. Thus we also find that a caustic behind the ear will relieve inflammations of the eyes or eyelids, when every application to the parts affected has proved ineffectual, and when this caustic, if applied to the parts themselves only as a stimulant, would increase the disease. Sympathy, perhaps, (except the continued) includes the mode of action in all of those which I have called relatives, viz. repulsion, derivation, revulsion, and translation ; at least it is probably the same principle in the whole. What I would call a cure by sympathy, is producing a curative action in a sound part, that the diseased may take on the same mode of action from sympathy that it would take on if the curative was applied to it; so that sympathy might even be supposed to repel in cases which would admit of repelling, and fall on some other part, although not the part necessarily where the application was made. The difference be- tween derivation or repulsion, and sympathy, consists in derivation pro- ducing a disease in a sound part to cure a disease in another part, as was observed; while sympathy is applying the cure to a sound part to cure the diseased; but in many cases it will be very difficult to distinguish the one from the other. Sympathy is very universal, or more general than any [of the] others; for there are few local diseases that do not extend beyond the surface of contact, which produces continued sym- pathy ; and also, there are few parts that have not some connexion with some other part, which gives us remote sympathy. It may be recollected, that when sympathy was treated of, it was divided into continued, contiguous, remote, similar, and dissimilar. I he cure by continued sympathy is that application which we have reason to suppose 'would cure if applied to the part itself, such as ap- plying mercury to the skin over a venereal node. The node is cured by its sympathizing with the mercurial irritation of the skin ; and the * [The sense of the passage seems to require'that we should read dissimilar.]