500 OF SKINNING. CHAPTER VIII. OF SKINNING. When a sore begins to heal we find that the surrounding old skin close to the granulations (which had been in a state of inflammation, having probably a red shining surface, as if excoriated, and rather rag- ged.) now becomes smooth and rounded, with a whitish cast, as if covered with something white, and the nearer to the cicatrizing edge the more white it is. This is, I believe, a beginning cuticle, and this appearance is probably as early a symptom of healing, and as much to be depended upon, as any; so that the disposition in the granulations for healing is manifested in the surrounding skin; and while the sore retains its red edge all round, for perhaps a quarter or half of an inch in breadth, we may be certain it is not a healing sore, and is what may be called an irritable sore. Skin is a very different substance, with respect to texture, from the granulations upon which it is formed, but whether it is an addition of new matter, viz. a new-formed substance upon the granulations, being produced by them, or a change in the surface of the granulations them- selves, is not easily determined. In either case, however, a change must take place in the disposition of the vessels, either to alter the structure of the granulations, or to form new parts upon them. One would at first be inclined to the former of these opinions, as we have a clearer idea of the formation of a new substance than such an alteration in the old. We find the new skin most commonly taking its rise from the sur- rounding old skin, as if elongated from it, but this is not always the case. In very large sores, but principally old ulcers, where the edges of the surrounding skin have but little tendency to contract, or the cel- lular membrane underneath to yield, as well as the old skin having but little disposition to skinning in itself, a cicatrizing disposition cannot be communicated from it to the nearest granulations by continued sym- pathy. In such cases new skin forms in different parts of the ulcer, standing on the surface of the granulations like little islands. This, I believe, never takes place in parts the first time of their being sore, nor in sores which have a strong propensity to skin. Skinning is somewhat