201 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. siderably increased in length before they reach the uterus, which obliges the spermatic artery in particular to be thrown into a serpentine form; this is more remarkable in some animals than in the human species. Instances of new-formed parts where the Vessels are increased, are to be found in the stag, or all those of the deer kind which cast their horns, such animals having the arteries considerably increased at the time the young horn is growing, so that the carotid arteries, which before had only to supply the head and the external carotid, which be- fore had oidy to supply the sides of the head, now become larger, and are continued into the horn, which is extremely vascular. After the separation of the foetus, or the full growth of the horn, the vessels na- turally lessen, to adapt themselves to the diminished size of the parts. It is curious to observe how vessels become enlarged upon any ir- ritation, not only the arteries, but the veins, and not only the smaller branches, but the larger trunks. This was evident in the following i case : I applied a caustic to the ball of the great toe of a patient every other day for more than a month, and after each application the sur- rounding parts put on a blush, and all the veins on the top of the foot, as well as up the leg, immediately began to swell, and became large and full. This was so remarkable that the patient watched for this effect on the days on which the caustic was applied, from its happening only on those days. In diseases where there is an increased size of the part, as in tumours, etc., the increase of vessels is no less conspicuous, and they have the power of dilatation and increase of strength, in proportion to the size of the vessels, which are now endowed with new dispositions and actions, < different from those they had before. The arteries often perform diseased operations in the body, which be- come symptoms both of local and constitutional actions, as in inflam- mation, fever, etc., for they are not only active in local disease, but their action often becomes a symptom of a constitutional disease, whether original, or arising from a local cause; but these symptoms become mostly sensible to us in those arteries whose actions we can feel, because they have a peculiar action in their diastole as well as in their systole, which is sensible to the touch, from which sensation we in many cases judge of the state of the body at the time, as also of the state of the cause, when it is local and out of sight. The heart, the source of the ' circulation, is also affected from the same cause, so that its motion and j the motions of the arteries commonly if not always correspond.