OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 228 a strong jet, much more in some than in others, and much more here than in the bend of the arm. The query is, does this arise from the immediate stroke of the heart, or is it by the lateral pressure, occasioned by the swell of the arteries ? To ascertain this the better, it is neces- sary to observe several tilings : we may remark that the pulsation in the veins is more in some parts than in others; thus, I should suppose it was more in the veins of the kidney, spleen, lungs, and brain, especially the last, than in many other parts ; but this, from the lateral swell of the arteries, cannot, from the above observations, affect all parts alike, for the veins on the back of the hand being superficial, and not sur- rounded with vascular parts, could not be affected by arteries : but still it may arise from the lateral swell of the smaller arteries; and this ac- celeration, given to the blood’s motion in the smaller veins, is carried to those on the back of the hand. But I think I have seen the difference in the projection so great, that it hardly could arise from that cause alone; and indeed, if this was the only cause, we should have it in some degree in every vein, for every vein is so far surrounded as to be in some measure affected from the swell of the arteries of the part; but we cer- tainly do not perceive it in so great a degree in the bend of the arm. The larger veins near to the heart have a pulsation which arises from the contraction of the heart preventing the entrance of the blood at that time, and producing a stagnation. This I saw very evidently in a dog whose chest I opened, and pro- duced artificial breathing; but I could not say whether this arose from the contraction of the auricles, ventricles, or both -. but the vena cava superior has a contraction in itself, in both dog and cat, and probably in the human subject. Even breathing produces a stagnation near the thorax, for during inspiration the veins readily empty themselves, but in expiration there is a degree of stagnation. Coughing, sneezing, or straining in any way where the thoracic and abdominal muscles are concerned, produces this effect. I think it is probable, that where there is a universal action of the vascular system, the action of the tirteries and veins is alternate. That third or fourth class, as, for instance, in those of the arm, is due to a cause of this kind increasing the tension of the whole venous system, especially as a hard contracted pulse in the arteries is often associated with this appearance in the veins. In those cases where a pulsation is visible in the great veins, in the neighbourhood of the chest, it undoubt- edly depends on the reflux of the blood on each systole of the auricle, or of the ven- tricle, if there should happen to be at the same time any disease of the heart, as, for instance, hypertrophy, attended with imperfect construction of the right auriculo- vcntricular valves. The respiratory pulse is not synchronous with that of the arteries, and depends on too obvious a cause to require explanation.J