434 OF TIIE SUPPURATIVF INFLAMMATION. mence with rigor. However, the commencement of the sympathetic fever is not always attended with that effect, and I believe it is the best constitution where it is not; and in that case it changes into a regular fever of the inflammatory kind. If the constitution has powers, heat comes on, attended with dry skin, frequent, and commonly a full pulse, having at the same time a degree of hardness in the stroke; watchful- ness, high-coloured urine, loss of appetite for solids, and thirst; all these will vary according to various visible circumstances, as well as accord- ing to many invisible ones, some one symptom being more in one con- stitution, and less in another. It is in many instances difficult to determine what is cause and what is effect. It has been commonly supposed that this fever was necessary for the operation of suppuration, and therefore the fever did not arise from the sympathy of the constitution with a local injury, but as a ne- cessary effect to become a cause of suppuration. If this was the case, we could have no suppuration which had not been preceded by fever; and the fever must have been equal in all cases in the same constitution, let the quantity of injury' be what it will. For if a pimple, or the sup- puration of a scratch, depended upon fever, they would require as much fever for their production of inflammation and suppuration as the largest abscess, or largest wound ; for a point that inflames and suppurates is under the same predicament with respect to the whole that a thousand are ; and a large abscess is to be considered as only made up of a thou- sand points. One venereal sore requires as much mercury to cure it as a thousand. One plant requires as much wet weather and sunshine as a million. A principle that affects universally can only affect a part in proportion to the quantity of the universal affection there is in the part: each part has just its portion of general influence. Now, according to this proposition, which is undeniable, a scratch requires the same quantity of fever that an amputation of the thigh does. Let us see how this accords with common experience ; we find that in- flammations and suppurations of sores shall take place without any fe- ver ; that the fever, in consequence of an injury, is not in all cases in the least proportioned to the quantity of injury, inflammation, and sup- puration, which it always should be if the last was an effect of it; and we know if an increase of fever comes on, superadded to the sympathetic, that suppuration is retarded or stopped altogether instead of being quickened". * [The former and latter parts of this paragraph are plainly contradictory; for if, upon the supposition, a scratch and an amputation require the same quantity of fever, then the degree of fever should not he in proportion to the suppuration, which, however, it is asserted it should be in the latter part of this paragraph.]