294 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. In cases of spontaneous inflammation of circumscribed cavities, we find where this contact is completest, that the inflammation and its con- sequences are the least; for instance, in the abdomen, in the cases of the peritoneal inflammations, the inflammation is the greatest where the surfaces are not so well opposed to one another, viz. in the angle be- tween any of the two viscera. This fact of simple contact being sufficient to exclude the irritation for inflammation, was well illustrated in a woman who had the Caesarian operation performed upon her, where a wound of eight inches long was made into the cavity of the abdomen to extract the child. After the child was extracted, the wound could not be brought exactly together; therefore, so far gave rise to a peritoneal inflammation; but the belly collapsing, and falling on its contents, they all came in contact as be- fore, and the woman living twenty-six hours, gave time for the inflam- matory irritation to take place. After death it was found that the in- testines were united to the peritoneum all round the wound for about half an inch in breadth, and the surface of the intestines which lay un- attached and exposed at the bottom of the wound were inflamed, while every other viscus, as well as the peritoneum, beyond the adhesions, were free from inflammation. Ulceration does not seem to obey this law so much, and the reason is, that ulceration is a second operation, and is preceded by inflammation, so that pus is brought equally through every part, if equally susceptible of ulceration, which all parts are not, although not depending upon their being similar or dissimilar. Thus a muscle or artery will not ulcerate so readily as cellular membrane; but if pus was formed on the inside of an artery, or in the centre of a muscle, they would ulcerate very readily, and the ulceration would not stop, or remain stationary, when it came to the cellular membrane, but would go on; if pus, too, be formed in a lymphatic gland, ulceration would go on in the parts between it and the external surface as fast as it did in the gland, if not faster, because inflammation would have gone before, and, as it were, assimilated the parts, and all from this cause, viz. being equally disposed to ulcerate. The cause of the spreading of inflammation is sympathetic; but the cause of ulceration is immediate*. • [Difference of structure has nearly as marked an effect in many instances in resist- ing the extension of ulceration as it has that of inflammation. This is very little observed in the progress of an abscess towards the surface, because the extension of ulceration in this case depends on the continued presence of the immediate cause, viz. the distension or pressure from behind, and therefore takes place as it were necessarily; whereas, when it depends on sympathy alone, as in ulceration of the bowels, stomach, bladder, Ac., nothing is more common than to sec the muscular fibres clean dissected by the ttlcera-