197 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. The absorbing system also takes a very active part in the animal ceconomy, whether natural or diseased, and seems in many actions to , consequence of the extremely devious and intricate course which it takes, it is next to impossible to follow any single globule through the mazes of its route into the veins: which veins again, I may observe, are formed by a re-collection of these tubes into the venous radicles, which uniting by twos and twos, in the reverse order of the arteries, ultimately form the venous trunks. The venous radicles are not unfrequently observed to anastomose with each other, but rarely or never the minute arteries; neither is it ever observed that these latter terminate directly in the veins, but the transition is uniformly effected through the in- i terposition of a capillary structure, which is proportionally more developed in the lungs i than in the other parts of the body. In the arteries the blood is of a lighter colour l than in the veins, and has a much greater velocity of motion; but in the capillaries the . colour and velocity of the blood are uniformly the same, although the slightest dis- ’ turbing causes are sufficient to make it flow faster or slower, or even to take a retro- I grade course where before it took a forward direction. In an unimpeded state of the i circulation the pulsation is barely visible in the arteries, and not very distinctly so in the capillaries; but it may be rendered distinctly so in both, as well as in the veins, by i impeding the course of the blood, by which the tension is increased so as even to pro- duce a remarkable oscillation of the globules. I have seen the globules advance and retire over a space at least twenty times their own length at each pulsation of the heart, and this for an unlimited length of time. One reason, I imagine, that the pulsation is not more visible in the minute vessels in the natural state of the circulation is, that our senses are unable to appreciate the differences of velocity of bodies in very rapid or very slow motion ; a cannon ball passing before our eyes at the rate of twenty miles an hour appears to go at the same rate as one at sixty miles, just as the hour-hand of a watch would still appear to go at the same rate as if it went twice as slow. Now as the actual area of the artery comprised in the focus of a high magnifying power is extremely small, at the same time that the apparent rapidity of the current is proportionally increased, the difference between the velocities in the systole and diastole of the heart is not per- ceptible. The difference in the degree of tension is certainly not the only cause of the difference in the degree of pulsation. I have said that the arteries never directly communicate with the veins, but always through a vascular network ; and this is strictly true in all warm-blooded animals, in which the systems of black and scarlet blood are preserved distinct. In inferior animals, however, as fish, the Batrachia, and even in the embryos of warm-blooded animals, ; as, iti the chick during the first days of incubation, such communications are found i to exist, because in these instances it is not of the same importance to keep these systems apart. The term capillary therefore ought exclusively to be applied to this interme- diate system of vessels, which appears essentially to differ both in function and distri- bution from any other parts of the vascular system. See Schultz, in Journ. de Progrts dcs Sc. Med., vii. 1828, and Dr. Marshall Hall’s Essay on the Circulation, 1831. Besides this visible system of capillaries, there can scarcely be any doubt that another system (invisible in consequence of its not admitting red globules) also exists. It is impossible otherwise to explain the nutrition of white structures, such as cartilage, the tunics of the eye, 8jc., or the phenomena of inflammation, when these structures become inflamed. The appearance which these colourless vessels assume when they become enlarged leads us to believe that they are similarly arranged as the coloured capillaries, and it is not improbable that all the processes of nutrition are carried on in these ves- sels. Haller and Bichat, and indeed most other physiological authorities, have super-