T1IE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 341 lotion of corrosive sublimate, and about twelve hours after I introduced the thermometer, and found no increase of heat. Twenty hours after I introduced the thermometer, but the heat was the same. Sixty hours I after the injection, the thermometer being introduced, the mercury rose h to 100° exactly. This injection had irritated so much as to give a very |.; severe tenesmus, and even blood passed. Experiment IV. The natural heat of the vagina of a young ass was 100°. A solution of corrosive sublimate, as much as would dissolve in i; a teacup full of water, viz. about ten grains, was injected into the va- !; gina. In about two hours after the mercury fell to 99°. Thursday ; morning, 99°; evening, 100°. Friday morning, 99° ; evening, near to 101°. Saturday morning, 99°; evening, 100°. This experiment was repeated several times upon the same ass with the same result. In these experiments it can hardly be said that the heat was increased. That the inflammation had been raised to a very considerable degree was plain, for it produced a discharge of matter which was often bloody, and upon killing the ass for another experiment, the following appear- ances were found in the uterus. The horns of the uterus were filled with serum, and the inflammation had run so high by the stimulating injections which were used for the experiments on the vagina, that the coagulating lymph had been thrown out so as almost to obliterate the vagina, uterus, etc. by those adhesions which are the ultimate effects of inflammation on secreting canals, while suppuration is the ultimate effect of inflammation on internal surfaces : there were no signs of in- flammation on the external surface of the uterus, which is covered by the peritonaeum. It may just be remarked, that in most of those experiments the heat in the morning was a degree less than in the evening; and I may also | remark, that this is commonly the case in the natural heat of the animal. I wished to know whether such animals as have little or no power of varying their natural heat had a power of increasing their heat in con- sequence of injuries, for which purpose I opened into circumscribed ca- vities in frogs, toads, and snails, and at different periods, after the opening was made, the thermometer was introduced. As the heat of those animals is principally from the atmosphere, the external heat is to be connected with the experiments. Experiments on cold-blooded Animals. Nov. 27, 1788. A healthy toad and frog, after having the heat in the stomach ascertained, had openings made through the skin of the