546 OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. if the artery is cut directly across, and it is done by a ball passing with a considerable velocity, it will bleed pretty freely ; if bruised, and in some degree torn, then it will bleed less. When the velocity of the ball is small, the vessels will be principally torn, for they will have time to stretch before the continuity of their parts gives way; but if it is great they will bleed more freely, because velocity will make up for want of sharpness. According to the velocity of the ball so is the direction. When the velocity is great, the direction of the ball will be in general more in a straight line than when it is small; for under such circumstances the ball more easily overcomes obstructions, and therefore passes on in its first direction. Velocity in the ball makes parts less capable of healing than when it moves with a small velocity ; therefore gun-shot wounds in pretty thick parts are in general later of healing at the orifice where the ball enters than at the orifice where it passes out, because it becomes in some de- gree a spent ball, the part having less slough, being only torn, which will often admit of being healed by the first intention. In cases where the ball passes through, and in such a direction as to have one orifice more depending than the other, I have always found that the depending orifice healed soonest, and more certainly so if the ball came out that way, and also if the ball had been pretty much spent in its passage; therefore it will require art to keep the depending ori- fice open, if thought necessary. But this circumstance of its being a spent ball will not always happen; because if the person is near the gun when fired, the velocity of the ball will be very little diminished in its progress through the soft parts, and therefore it will have nearly the same velocity on both sides. This fact of the lower orifice healing soonest is common to allAvounds, and I believe is owing to the tumefaction which generally arises from the extravasated fluid always descending to the lower part; and being retarded at the lower orifice, it is as it were stopped there, and presses the sides of the wound together, obliging it to heal, if the parts have not been deadened. This is evidently the case after the introduction of the seton in the hydrocele, especially if the two orifices of the seton are at some distance; but in the hydrocele there is a more striking reason for it, for in this disease the extravasated fluids are wholly detained about the lower orifice, as there is no depending part for the fluid to descend to.