421 OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. causes are not in the least similar to that arising from common in- flammation ; nor is the effect, viz. the matter, similar; and to show still further that suppuration is always preceded by inflammation, the very surfaces which form the above matter immediately produce true matter when the inflammation comes on, which it always does whenever opened; which I shall now consider. Since they are not similar in their causes or modes of production, let us next examine how far they are similar in their first steps towards a cure. All parts which form matter of any kind, viz. whether in consequence of inflammation or otherwise, must go through similar processes to pro- duce the ultimate effect or cure. The first step in either is the evacu- ation of this matter, for till this is effected, Nature cannot pursue the proper means towards a cure ; and if opened, the second step is granu- lation, and the third cicatrization. To accomplish the evacuation of the matter there are two modes : one is the absorption of the matter, which is very common in the scrofula, or those productions of matter not pre- ceded by inflammation : this produces no alteration in the part, except that it gradually creeps into a sound state, the parts uniting again that had been separated by the accumulation of the matter ; it produces also no alteration in the constitution : absorption, however, seldom takes place in suppuration which is the consequence of inflammation. The other mode of discharging this matter is either by opening the abscess, in order to allow it to pass out, or by allowing ulceration to take place from the inside to produce its escape; and this process, in the present case, having peculiarities different from those arising from inflammation, it is necessary they should be understood. Ulceration in consequence of suppuration arising from inflammation is very rapid, especially if the suppuration is so likewise; but ulceration in consequence of matter being formed which is not the effect of inflammation is extremely slow: it will remain months, even years, before the parts have completely given way; they commonly come to the skin by a broad surface, and not pointing like a circumscribed abscess in consequence of influmma- t'on; so fur are these two different0. * [That Mr. Hunter should have overlooked the analogies which connect the class of facts, referred to in this section, with ordinary suppuration, and insisted only on their dissimilarities, might justly excite our surprise, if we did not reflect that his argument ia ultimately based on the assumption that inflammation is a salutary process, and not a diseased action; a doctrine which it is evident could derive no support from the phenomena of chronic abscesses. In this mode of argumentation, however, the same fallacy is involved as in the author’s speculations on the venereal disease, in which, having laid down the proposition that mercury is essential to its cure, he afterwards argues on this fact, adopting it as the only unequivocal test of the existence of the dis-