3 INTRODUCTION. susceptible of impressions which excite action; there is no part which has not more or less of this principle, and consequently no part which does not act according to the nature of the principle itself, and the im- pressions thence arising, producing thereby infinite variety, both in all natural and diseased acts. How far every part has an equal quantity of life, or of the powers of life, is not easily ascertained; but if wre were to estimate them by the powers of action, we should judge tolerably well. Disease would seem to give some intelligence with regard to this mat- ter ; but how far resistance to disease, and powers of restoration, depend on the powers of life, or simply on the powers of action8, I cannot say; but I believe it may be set down as a rule that those parts that are en- dowed with most action resist disease most strongly, and in disease restore themselves most readily to a healthy state. ยง. 1. Of diseased Actions, as being incompatible tenth each other. As I reckon every operation in the body an action, whether universal or partial, it appears to me beyond a doubt that no two actions can take place in the same constitution, nor in the same part, at one and the same time; the operations of the body are similar in this respect to actions or motions in common matter. It naturally results from this principle that no two different fevers can exist in the same constitution, nor two local * [I believe a distinction should be made between resistance to disease and the powers of restoration. The former would seem to be in proportion to the vital energy residing in a part independently of action, as in a fresh-laid egg subjected to cold, whereas the latter would appear to be in proportion to the vital energy conjointly with the powers of action. Action, in the physiological sense of the word, can neither be supposed to exist in an unorganised body nor in an organised body stiffened by cold, although it is well known that living bodies are capable of resisting the effects of a low temperature under both these conditions; that is, the vital principle resists by a species of simple antagonism, just as gravity resists force, or chemical attraction electricity, although the former powers may be overcome by the latter when the latter are in greater intensity. In disease also, and especially in epidemical and infectious diseases, the weak and de- bilitated are most liable to catch the iufection, and generally fall the first victims; so also in poisons, those parts which are least endowed with life are those which perish most readily. On these occasions, action, it is true, is produced; but then it is a subse- quent, or at the most only a concomitant, efTect, intended for the reparation of the injury and absolutely necessary for this purpose. However, it is highly probable that the powers of a part or of the system may be temporarily increased by certain species of fevers and inflammations, which may thus indirectly tend to increase the power of re- sistance. On the same principle, infection is most effectually resisted by those who are actively engaged in the pursuits of life.] B 2