GENERAL PRINCIPLES OK THE BLOOD. 28 Rest is another cause upon which the coagulation of the blood has been said to depend ; and although this opinion be not true in the full 84° to 82'5°. The former, however, was much the most coagulated of the two at the end of this period; although, as we have before shown, cold retards the coagulatory process. But if blood be received into a close vessel, so as completely to fill it, and care at the same time be taken to exclude it from the contact of the atmosphere, the process will be considerably retarded. To account for this apparent anomaly, Scudamore not only attempted to prove that carbonic acid is extricated from the blood during coagulation, and that the time required for the concretory process in great measure depends on the quick or slow extrication of this gas, but that its evolution is “ an essential circumstance” in this process. {Op.cit., p. 103.) With respect to the fact on which this explanation turns, viz. the extrication of car- bonic acid gas, nothing can be more discordant than the results of experimentalists. One party, as Vogel, Scudamore, Brande, &c. {Ann. de Chimie, tom. xciii. Essay on the Blood, p. 28. Phil. Trans. 1818, p. 181.), affirming its existence in arterial and venous blood alike in considerable quantities. Another, as Clanny, Prout, and Stevens, (EUin. Med. and Surg. Journ., xxxii. 40. Bridgewater Treatise, p. 524. Observations on the Blood, p. 21.) that it exists in venous blood only ; and a third, as Davy, Thack- rah, and a number of others, (Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., xxix. 254. Enquiry into the Blood, p. 63.) that it has no existence in either. But this question has lately been investigated and set at rest by Mr. Squire of Oxford-street; who, by a series of accurate and ingenious experiments, has succeeded in obtaining notable quantities of carbonic acid from venous blood, when, from the nature of the apparatus which was employed, it was impossible that any portion of the gas so obtained could have been derived from the atmosphere. It has been urged, indeed, that the alkalinity of the blood is incon- sistent with the admission of this fact; but Dr. Davy has shown that the admixture of a fourth part of an inch of carbonic acid to an ounce of fresh blood did not destroy its alkaline properties. {Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., xxix. 254.) Admitting, therefore, the fact of the presence of carbonic acid in the blood, the ques- tion arises how far the escape of this gas affords a reasonable explanation of the cause of coagulation. Now it must be apparent that the coagulation and non-coagulation of the blood under circumstances not at all connected with the escape of carbonic acid is a sufficient answer to this question; for if coagulation can take place in the interior of the body, where no gas can escape, or be prevented from taking place when effhsed from the body by the mere circumstance of cold, it is evident that the extrication of carbonic acid is not necessary for this process. Still the experiments which have been referred to render it extremely probable that coagulation in vacuo is accelerated by the free escape of carbonic acid, and that atmospheric air, in addition to its action as a foreign body, promotes coagulation by promoting the escape of carbonic acid. Majendie has observed (Phys., 46me edit, Brux., p. 306.) that enormous quantities of atmospheric air may slowly be injected into the veins of an animal without producing any inconvenience, or without imparting to the blood any tendency to coagulation; but Hewson found that blood confined within a living vessel by two ligatures remained two thirds fluid for 3j hours, although it coagulated in fifteen minutes when air was blown into the vessel. Hence there would appear to be a difference in regard to the effects of atmospheric air, according as the blood happens to be at rest or in motion in the vessels. As to the effect of gases generally on coagulation, Sir H. Davy has informed us that he could discover no difference in the time required for coagulation when blood was exposed to nitrogen, oxygen, nitrous oxide, carhonic acid, hvdro-carbon, or atmospheric air. {Besearchcs on Nitrous Oxide, p. 380.) Nitrous oxide injected into the veins con-