OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 179 inelastic membranes, having no action within themselves, with one edge fixed, the other loose in some, but not entirely so in others; they are either attached in a circular form, or in an oblique one. The cir- cular attachment belongs to those of the ventricles, and the oblique to those of the arteries and veins. The circular are the most complex, requiring an additional apparatus to make them answer the intended purpose; for it is necessary that their loose floating edges should be restrained from inverting themselves into the auricle upon the contrac- tion of the ventricles. This is done by tendons, which are fixed at one extremity along the edge of the valves, and at the other to some part upon the inside of the ventricle. The tendons which are longest are inserted into columns of muscle, the intention of which is very evident: for if they had gone the whole length in form of a tendon, they would have been too long when the heart contracted, and the valves in such a case would have allowed of being pushed into the auricles, so far as to admit of the blood escaping back again into the cavity; but the carnesc columns: keep the valves within the ventricle, in the contracted state of the ven- tricles ; and the dilatation of the ventricles counteracts them, and places the valves in their proper situation in that state. If the valves in this cavity had been placed obliquely along the inner sides of the ventricle, as in the beginning of the arteries and in the veins, the attachment then would not have been permanent; for it would have varied according to the relaxed or contracted state of the heart: it would have been short in the contracted state, and longer in the relaxed; therefore, to have a fixed base, it was necessary for them to be attached all round the mouth of the ventricles. I have reason to believe that the valves on the right side of the heart do not so perfectly do their duty as those of the left, therefore we may suppose it was not so necessary. The vessels of the heart are called coronary arteries and veins. In quadrupeds and birds there are two coronary arteries, which arise from the aorta just at its beginning, behind two of the valves of the artery. From this circumstance a theory respecting the action of the heart was raised; but in the amphibia they arise at some distance, and not always from the same artery in the same species, often from the subclavian, and often from the anterior surface of the ascending aorta, which is reflected back. In the fish they arise from the artery as they are coming from the gills. The veins pass into the right auricle. In all animals which have an auricle and ventricle, so far as I know, there is a bag (unattached) in which they are placed, called a pericar- n 2