OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 545 cess, having passed in, I believe, among the abdominal muscles. The on y remarkable thing that occurred was that the cellular membrane for some way about the passage of the ball was cedematous, and when I cut out the ball air came out with it. §• 2. Of the different Effects arising from the difference in the Velocity of the Ball. Many of the varieties between one gun-shot wound and another arise from the difference in the velocity of the body projected j and they are principally the following. If the velocity of the ball is small, then the mischief is less in all of em, t lere is not so great a chance of their being compounded with ractures of the bones, &c.; but if the velocity is sufficient to break the ! J® hltS' the bone wlH ,,e much more splintered than if the velocity .u >een very considerable, for where the velocity is very great, the ball to fi TCrkeS a/!eCe °Ut; however’ a]I this "ill also vary according frequent 88 h™6' “ b°ne the 8Plintere will be mos^ When the velocity is small, the direction of the wound produced bv the ball will m common not be so straight, therefore its direction not so readily ascertained, arising from the easy turn of the ball U hen the velocity is small the deadened part or slough is always less • wheT LaveTat 17 * baU W0UW S6em only t0 divide parts! while when the velocity is great the contrary must happen. From this cir- cumstance it is that the slough is larger at that orifice where the ball enteis than where it comes out; and if the ball meets with a great deal of instance in its passage through, there will very probably be no slouch at aU at its exit which will be therefore only a derated wound & The greater the velocity of the ball the cleaner it wounds the parts • whfch S° aS ^ m°St.t0 be Similar t0 a cut with a sharp instrument, from “C—CC ^ T1" bC imagined that there should be a waller ^rfmen^would8156? ‘ ^ *> the best cutting . trument n ould produce a slough on the cut edges of the divided parts or the d.vuied parts not giving way equally to the velocity of the divid- ing body, must of course be proportionally bruised Gun-shot wounds are attended with less bleeding than most others • mwever some will be attended with this symptom more than others’ is produced U1B1 ThlS anSe3 fr°m the raanner in which the wound _ 1 oduced. Bleeding arises from a vessel being cut or broken • but e freedom of bleeding arises from the manner in which this is done • ' Oh. Ill, 2 •