THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 477 ยง. G. Of the Relaxing Process. Besides these two modes of removing whole parts, acting singly or together, there is an operation totally distinct from either, and this is a relaxing and elongating process carried on between the abscess and the skin, and at those parts only where the matter appears to point. It is possible that this relaxing, elongating, or weakening process may arise in some degree from the absorption of the interior parts ; but there is certainly something more, for the skin that covers an abscess is always looser than a part that gives way from mere mechanical distention, ex- cepting the increase of the abscess is very rapid. That parts relax or elongate without mechanical force, but from par- ticular stimuli, is evident in the female parts of generation just before the birth of the foetus : they become relaxed prior to any pressure. The old women in the country can tell when a hen is going to lay, from the parts becoming loose about the anus. That this relaxing process takes place between an abscess and the skin is evident in all cases, but was more demonstratively so in the fol- lowing case than commonly can be observed, where an increase of sur- face takes place without the visible loss of substance, for here both could be exactly ascertained; and, indeed, no abscess could swell outwards, excepting by distention, without it. In the following case this process was particularly evident. A lad about thirteen years of age was attacked with a violent inflam- mation in his belly, without any apparent cause. The usual means were used, but without effect. His belly began to swell in a few days after the attack, and his skin became cold and clammy, especially his feet and hands. Once when he made water it was transparent like spring water, with a little cloud of mucus. In several places of the belly there appeared a pointing, as if from matter; one of those, which was just below the sternum, became pretty large, and discoloured with a red tint. Although there was not any undulation or perfect fluctuation (there not being fluid enough for such a feel) yet it was plain there was a fluid, and most probably from the pointings, it was matter in conse- quence of inflammation, and was producing ulceration on the inside ot the abdomen for its exit; therefore it was thought advisable, as early as possible, to open the belly at one of those parts. I made a small opening into the pointing part, just below the sternum, hardly an inch long : when I was performing the operation, I saw plainly the head of the rectus muscle, which I cut through in the direction of its fibres. 1'herc was immediately discharged by this wound about two or three quarts of a thin bloody matter. The swelling of the abdomen subsided