504 OF SKINNING. 1 he surrounding original cutis, being drawn towards a centre by the contraction of granulations, to avoid as much as possible the formation of new skin, is thrown into loose folds, while the new looks like a piece of skin upon the stretch, and the whole appears as if a piece of skin had been sewed into a hole by much too large for it; and therefore it had been necessary to throw the surrounding old skin into folds, or gather the surrounding skin, in order to bring it in contact with the new. I he new cutis of a sore, I believe, never acquires a muscular structure ; nor does it grow larger than the sore which it covers, so as to be tin own into wrinkles similar to the old, and therefore has always that stretched, shining appearance. ยง.2. Of the new Cuticle. It does not appear to be so difficult a process for the cutis to form cuticle as it is for the granulations to form cutis; for we find in gene- ral, that wherever there is a new cutis formed, it is covered with a cu- ticle : and in cases of blisters, or any other cause which may have de- prived the cutis of its cuticle, we find that the cuticle is soon restored. W e are to observe, however, that in such cases it is a sound original cutis, forming its own cuticle, and having the whole power of forming 'lie cuticle, the surrounding cuticle itself having no power of action of this kind : every point of cutis is forming cuticle, so that it is forming equally everywhere at once; whereas I observed that the formation of the cutis was principally progressive from the surrounding cutis. It is at first very thin, and partakes more of a pulpy than a horny sub- stance ; as it gets stronger, it becomes smooth and shining, and is much more transparent than original cuticle, which shows more the colour of the rete mucosum. This account relates to the cuticle of sound parts which had gone through all the operations of health; but where there is a retardation in the healing we find that the cuticle is in some cases backward in forming, and in others it shall be formed very thick, so as to make it necessary to be removed, it appearing to be a clog upon the cutis, retarding the progress of its formation. ยง. 3. Of the Mete Mucosum. The rcte mucosum is later in forming than the cuticle, and in some cases never forms at all: this is best known in blacks who have been either wounded or blistered, for the cicatrix in the black is a consider-