FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 285 yond the union of the lips with the gum it will attack the skin over the inflamed part, while all the internal parts, such as the gums on both sides, but principally on the inside and tongue, if in the lower jaw, shall be perfectly sound. If an inflammation attacks the cellular membrane on the outside of the gut near the anus, although the gut is in contact with the inflamed part, yet the inflammation extends to the skin of the buttock, while the gut remains pretty free from inflammation. If an inflammation attacks the peritonmum covering an intestine, and if adhesions between it and the peritonaeum lining the abdomen are a consequence, the inflammation immediately passes through the abdomi- nal muscles towards the skin, while the proper coats of the intestines shall in most cases remain sound ; however, this is not always the case, although much more commonly so than the reverse. We see the same thing in the obstruction of the natural passage of the tears, called fis- tula lacrymalis, for there the sac and skin ulcerate on the inner angle of the eye, while the inside of the nose defends itself by becoming thicker, so much so in many cases as to stop the cavity of the nose and unite with the septum, which has been the cause of the failure of the operation for the fistula lacrymalis. We even find that if an abscess forms in a frontal sinus from an obstruction in its duct that the matter makes its way through the frontal bone externally, instead of getting into the nose. The same observations are applicable to abscesses in the antrum, which are common cases; and indeed, if we observe accurately, we shall find that nature rather defends such parts as are either deeper seated or on the inside of outlets, as will be explained hereafter. The specific qualities in diseases also tend more rapidly to the skin than to the deeper-seated parts, except the cancer; although even in this disease the progress towards the superficies is more quick than its pro- gress towards the centre. The venereal has something of the same dis- position with the cancer, although not so much. In short, this is a law in nature, and it probably is upon the same principle by which vege- tables always approach the surface of the earth. That this is a general principle in vegetation requires no illustration, but what is the immediate cause is not so easily determined. I con- ceived it might be the light, not warmth, for the ground is often warmer than the air or surface into which vegetables are often growing. To as- certain this as far as I could by experiment, I took a tub, about eighteen inches deep, and about two wide, and filled it with fine mould, in which I planted some beans and peas; their eyes were placed in various di- rections, and over the surface was spread a close-meshed net. The mouth of this tub was turned down, was raised about three feet from