97 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. variations : yet, when we come to consider the varieties in the pulse, we should imagine there would be great varieties in the quantity of blood. The quantity I think must be considerable when we reflect on the use of this fluid; the quantity of supply or food necessary to keep it up; • that it supports the body and life everywhere; and that it forms the j pabulum of many secretions. All these cannot depend on a very small quantity of this fluid without conceiving at the same time an extremely quick change. There seem to be twro modes of judging, both of which are evidently liable to objections in point of accuracy, and they differ so : much as to show' that neither can be right. One is, to calculate how much may be in an animal from the quantity it will lose in a short time. : I have seen several quarts thrown up from the stomach in a few hours, ; even by a very thin puny person; and, on the other hand, if wTe had not this proof we should suppose there could be but very little, w'hen a few ounces w'ill make a person faint. I have an idea, however, that people can bear to lose more by the stomach than in any other way. Besides, stream of carbonic acid gas passed through blood which has been previously reddened by a neutral salt renders it irrecoverably black. C. A dark clot is equally arterialized when covered with milk or white of egg (Priest- ,ley on Air, iii.; Wells in Phil. Trans., 1797.) as when covered with its own serum. •The effect indeed is more slowly produced, but it is accompanied with the same loss of oxygen and the same evolution of carbonic acid, consequently the salts of the serum cannot be the cause of the red colour. But this objection is of little weight, 1st, because a minute portion of salts is contained in milk and white of egg; and 2nd, because the further contraction of the clot may extrude a still further portion of serum, which coming in contact with the surface of the clot may arterialize it. 7. Upon the supposition that free carbonic acid is the sole cause of the dark colour of the blood, by suspending the reddening tendency of the salts, the addition of a mi- nute quantity of any pure alkali, sufficient to neutralize the acid, ought immediately not only to restore this property to the salts, but tolncrease it, by adding to the previously existing salts a carbonated alkali; but the addition of any quantity of a pure alkali is found rather to increase the blackness of the blood. ( Williams in Med. Gaz.,ul supra.) Considerable weight is undoubtedly due to several of these objections, although they do not appear to me to be of that nature that they may not possibly be removed by , further inquiries. The following inferences seem at least fairly deducible from the preceding considera- tions : 1st, that air or oxygen without salt has no power of reddening the blood; 2nd, that salt without air has this effect; 3rd, that carbonic acid is probably the cause of the black colour of venous blood, by overpowering the natural reddening tendency of the serum; and 4th, that the removal of the carbonic acid is the cause of the red colour, by allowing the serum to exercise this tendency unobstructed. Independently of any theory these are novel and interesting facts, for which wre are mainly indebted to Dr. Stevens. It cannot, however, be concealed that the theory of respiration, calorification and arterialization which he has built upon them is defective in many main points, al- | though I consider it on the whole as open to fewer objections than any other, and as j fully deserving of being followed up with further and more accurate experiments.]