456 OF PUS. capable of being taken back again into the constitution by absorption, and producing much worse evils than those it was meant to relieve. I believe that the supposed cases of absorption are more numerous than those where it is supposed to relieve; if so, then by their own account nothing is gained. Or it is presumed to carry of!' local complaints from other parts of the body by way of derivation or revulsion; for this rea- son sores, as issues, are made in sound parts, to allow other sores to be dried up, or even with a view to oblige parts to dissolve themselves into pus, as indurated swellings ; but we have endeavoured to show that the solids make no part of pus. A secretion of pus is also looked upon as a general prevention of many or of all the causes of disease; issues, therefore, are made to keep oft’ both universal disease as well as local. But I am apt to believe that wo are not yet -well or perhaps at all acquainted with its use, for it is com- mon to all sores, takes place in the most perfect degree in those sores which may be said to be the most healthy, and especially in those where the constitution is most healthy. We find also that very large discharges, " hen proceeding from a part which is not essential to life, produces very little change in the constitution, and as little upon being healed up, what- ever some people may suppose to the contrary. One might naturally imagine that it was of service to the sore which formed it to keep it moist, &c., for all internal surfaces have their pecu- liar moisture ; but as a sore is to heal, and if allowed to dry so as to form a scab, then a sore is disposed to form no more pus and heal faster, it is the mode of dressing external sores that keeps up this secretion, which in this respect maintains the sore in the state of an internal one. But this will not account for the formation of an abscess, which is the formation of pus we can best account for, since it produces the exposure of inter- nal surfaces : in many cases it is of singular sendee to procure the se- cond mode of cure, and open a communication between the disease and the external surface of the body. It also forms a passage for the exit of extraneous bodies : but all these are only secondary uses". * [The chemical qualities of pus have not yet been accurately investigated, nor do we as yet possess any accurate test for distinguishing mucus from the purulent secretion. Dr. George Pearson, in his observations on this fluid in the Philosophical Transactions, 1810, p. 294. has distinguished four leading varieties, to which all the others may be referred, viz. 1. the healthy, or creatulikc and equally consistent; 2. the curdy anil unequally consistent; 3. the serous and thin; and 4. the viscid and slimy. As these, however, under the-microscope all exhibit the same intimate structure, consisting of minute particles suspended in a transparent fluid, it is reasonable to infer that w hate' er differences exist depend on the relative proportions of their constituent parts, or the different degrees of aggregation in which their particles are united. The globular structure of the pus, as first pointed out by Seitac, hat tecently been