268 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. CHAPTER II. FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. An animal in perfect health is to be considered as a perfect machine, no part of it appearing naturally weaker than another; yet this is not lymph of the blood. “ It must,” he says, “ have undergone some change arising from the action of the vessels,” which renders it different from “ the coagulating lymph with its common properties. We should infer that this coagulating matter is not simply co- agulating lymph such as it is when circulating, but somewhat different, from having undergone a change in its passage through the inflamed vessels.” When therefore we consider that the fibrin of the blood and the plastic coagulable lymph which is thrown out in inflammation are not the same substances, or at least not in the same state; that the coagulable lymph is the universal medium of adhesion in all cases of disease; that it is thrown out also in all instances of recent wounds; that it is sufficient of itself to effect their union; and that the presence of blood invariably impedes and very often completely prevents this event: when, I say, we consider these circumstances, and take them together, we can scarcely refuse our assent to the position that coagulable lymph is the invariable agent in all cases of adhesion; especially when we reflect, 2. That there is an absolute deficiency of direct proof on the other side; for, whatever some may say, Mr. Hunter always speaks hesitatingly on this point. “I think,” he says, “ that I have been able to inject what I suspected to be the beginning of a vascu- lar formation of the coagulum when it could not receive any vessels from the surround- ing parts;” and in one of his letters to Dr. Jenner, dated July 6, 1777, he says, “ I do not remember Dr. Fordyce’s ever supposing a polypus vascular. I should rather be- lieve he supposed the contrary. You know it comes near my idea that the blood is the bond of union everywhere, but I should very much suspect that a polypus formed after death is not of that kind. I am pretty certain that I have injected them in arteries after amputations, and I have a preparation which shows and supports my theory.’ Now it is very remarkable, considering the frequency of extravasations of blood in the human body, that no unequivocal example of organized coagulum has yet been pro- duced, and it is also material to observe that the examples of this kind which Hunter supposed he possessed were not calculated to carry conviction on such a point, for the injecting pipe being inserted at random into the substance of a coagulum of blood it could scarcely happen othenvise than that the injection should diffuse itself through the substance of the clot, as through a sponge, and thus present some obscure resemblance to organization. Experimentalists have been able to inject, from the adjoining vessels, the organized coagulable lymph within tw enty-four hours after its effusion, but this has never been done in regard to the blood. Effusions of blood have been known to exist in the brain and cellular membrane, and in the cavities of the great vessels and aneu- rismal sacs, for months and even years, and yet so far from becoming organized or identified with the surrounding parts they have invariably acted as foreign bodies, pro- ducing either inflammation and consolidation of the surrounding textures into sacs for their protection, or suppuration for their speedy expulsion. The argument from tumours is much too unsatisfactory to be admitted to have any weight in this question (see note, I-