GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 38 Besides a disposition for coagulation under certain circumstances, as before described, the blood has also a disposition for the separation of the red globules, and probably of all its parts ; for I think I have reason to believe that a disposition for coagulation, and a disposition for a separation of the red part, are not the same thing, but arise from two different principles. Indeed, a disposition to coagulation would coun- teract the effect, and hinder the separation of the red particles from taking place. Thus we see that rest, or slow motion of the blood in the vessels, gives a disposition towards the separation of the red part, as well as when it is extravasated; since the blood in the Veins of an animal acquires a disposition to separate its red parts more than in the arteries, especially if it be retarded in the veins ; the nearer, therefore, to the heart in the veins the greater will the disposition for separation be ; though it does not seem to retard coagulation. This is always ob- servable in bleeding; for if we tie up an arm, and do not bleed imme- diately, the first blood that flows from the orifice, or that which has stagnated for some time in the veins, will soonest separate into its three constituent parts : this circumstance exposes more of the coagulating lymph at the top, wrhich is supposed by the ignorant to indicate more inflammation, while the next quantity taken suspends its red parts in the lymph, and gives the idea that the first small quantity had been of such sendee at the time of its flowing as to have altered for the better the whole mass of blood. Rest, therefore, may be regarded as one of the immediate causes of the separation11. and heeraatosine as distinct and separate principles or merely as modifications of the same principle. There can be little doubt that the offices which they fulfil in the ceconomy are perfectly distinct, and therefore it is probable that the substances themselves are so. In order to explain the variations above mentioned in the constitution of the blood during one and the same venesection, we have only to remember the extraordinary rapidity of the circulatory, secretory and absorbent functions. A solution of prussiate ot potash introduced into the jugular vein of a horse was detected by the appropriate test in the opposite jugular vein in from twenty to thirty seconds, and in the serous cavities of the pericardium and pleura in from two to six minutes; and if we may be allowed to judge from the effects of poisons, or from the rapid manner in which enormous ascitic collections are sometimes suddenly dispersed, the rapidity of the action of the absorb- ents would appear to exceed even that of the secretories. (Hering in Med. Gazette, xiv. 745.) From these sources it is not difficult to account for the change in quality which the blood undergoes during venesection, which ordinarily occupies from two to five minutes. The first portions of blood which pass are abstracted under natural cir- cumstances ; but the new impression which is thus produced on the constitution by the first loss of blood, may easily affect the residual mass; 1st, through the medium of the absorbents; 2nd, through the secretory vessels, which rapidly take up the fluid parts of the body, and convey them into the circulation.] a [Buffi/ Blood.—The reason why more huff appears in the first than in the second quantity of blood (a fact which is by no means universal,) will be intelligible from what