354 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. this disposition, and to a very great extent". We find in the beginning of mortification the blood coagulating in the vessels, so as to fill them up entirely; and this, preceding the mortification, seems to be for the purpose of securing the vessel before it is to give way. We therefore cannot doubt of a coagulating principle being given to the blood from the vessels; and, as a further proof of this, we may observe that the extravasated coagulating lymph, which produces either adhesions or forms tumours (which is often the case), is always of the nature of the diseased solids that produced it. If the case is venereal, the new sub- stance is of the seme nature : if cancerous, it is cancerous; for I find that it has, when absorbed, the power of contaminating, similar to mat- ter or pus produced by the sores or ulcers of such diseases; the absorb- ent glands being often affected by the absorption of the coagulating matter of a scirrhous breast. Whatever change the coagulating lymph has undergone in this oper- ation of inflammation, it seems so far the same as to retain still the nature of the coagulating lymph, and to possess the living principle. This is most probably in a greater degree; and therefore the coagu- lating lymph is still better fitted to be formed into a part of the solids of the body, as will be taken notice of when we come to treat of the state of the blood in inflammation. But it is not absolutely necessary that the coagulating lymph should first undergo a change in the extra- vasated vessels before it can become a living solid, or unite living solids: for we find that common blood extravasated from a ruptured vessel is, perhaps, ecpially efficacious in this respect; therefore the red globules do not retard union, but they may promote it. ยง. 7- The state of the Blood and of the Pulse in Inflammation. From what has been said of the living power of the blood, I think we must allow that it will be commonly affected much in the same manner with the constitution, and that disease will have nearly the same effect upon it as it has on the body, because the same living principle runs through the whole. We find this to be nearly the case : for till a dis- ease has affected the constitution, the blood continues the same as be- 3 [We can have no difficulty in rejecting this opinion; especially as it is opposed to the author's own observations elsewhere (p. 254 et passim) as well as the whole analo- gies of the subject (p. 328 note). The reason for assigning a different cause for the obliteration of the cavities of blood-vessels, than that which is employed by Nature for the union of divided parts, derives no support from observation. The coagula which form in blood-vessels and aneurismal sacs is not found to form any vascular connexion with the containing parts.] 1 pKfeMtfi