THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 375 the greatest, as we can kill by such means, yet the loss of certain quan- tities in many constitutions is necessary for health : this is either when there is a disposition to make too much blood, or a constitution that cannot bear the usual quantity ; in such, when known, bleeding with freedom is certainly necessary. If the inflammation is known to be at- tended with real powers bleeding is absolutely necessary, in such quan- tity as to take off from the force of the circulation, which arises from too much blood ; or if that is not sufficient, then as much as will cause a contraction of the vessels ; but in cases of too great an action of weak parts, then the proper quantity to be taken is no more than may assist the dilatation of the vessels, which will lessen the violence of motion in the blood, or remove the sensation in the part inflamed, of having too much to doa: the quantity, therefore, must be regulated according to the symptoms and other circumstances ; for instance, according to the visible indications. We are to remark here, that every part of the body under inflamma- tion will not bear bleeding silike. I believe that the constitution bears bleeding best when the inflammation is in parts not vital, and those near the source of the circulation : whatever disturbs some of the vital parts, depresses, but not equally in all; and in them it becomes more neces- sary to be particular; for in accidents of the brain, bleeding freely, even so as to produce sickness and fainting, is necessary. It is probable that the sickness attending such accidents is designed to lessen the influx to the head, and occasion the vessels of the brain to contract. The indications for bleeding are, first, according to the violence of the inflammation, joined with the strength of the constitution, which will in general point out the kind of inflammation. Secondly, according to the disposition to form much blood; thirdly, according to the nature of the part, whether vital or not; fourthly, according to its situation, in point of distance from the heart; fifthly, according to the effect of the inflammation on the constitution1’. With regard to this evacuation, it is worthy of particular considera- tion, whether or not, in all cases where it can be put in practice, bleed- ing in or near the part will answer better than taking the blood from the general habit, for certainly less may be removed in this way, so as to have equal effect upon the part inflamed (and probably upon every other disease that is relieved by bleeding), and yet affect the constitution less ; [these modes of expression, which are evidently unphiiosophica), have been al- ready noticed. (See Consciousness iu the Index.) For the word “assist” in this paragraph, I should apprehend we ought lo read nlit re.] 11 [See Note, Vol. I. p. 102.]