314 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. [1.] \\ hat I would call the cedematous inflammation is when the ex- travasated fluid is water ; it has very much the appearance of the adhe- sive, and probably comes the nearest to it of any, being of a scarlet colour, but much more diffused. The fluid extravasated, being princi- pally the serum, renders the swelling more diffused than even the inflam- mation itself; it is very painful, or rather sore, but there is not so much of the throbbing sensation as in the adhesive inflammation ; it appears to be only on the surface, but most probably goes much deeper; for in such cases the extravasated fluid is in too large quantity to be furnished by the cells of the cutis alone ; but in this we have not the same guide as in the adhesive, viz. the swelling and inflammation corresponding with each other. The difference between this inflammation and the ad- hesive arises, I conceive, from the principle of inflammation acting upon a dropsical disposition, which is always attended with weakness; whereas a greater degree of strength w’ould have produced the adhesive inflam- mation under the same cause or irritation; and what makes me con- ceive this is, that in many cases of anasarcous legs we have exactly this inflammation come on from distention, which adds to the extravasation of the serum, as well as in most cases of scarifications of cedematous parts to evacuate the water. When this inflammation takes place it is much more lasting than the adhesive, and I believe seldom or never pro- duces suppuration ; but if it should run into this stage it is more gene- ral, and the whole cellular membrane in the interstices of parts is apt to mortify and slough, producing very extensive abscesses, which are not circumscribed. [2.] The erysipelatous inflammation is very peculiar, and most in- flammations that are not of the true adhesive and suppurative kinds are called so, although probably they do not in the least belong to it; and this may arise more from the want of terms than the want of discrimi- nation. This inflammation often arises spontaneously, or in consequence of a low or debilitating fever. It often arises from accident, but then it is commonly a secondary inflammation, although not always : for the first shall have gone off, and when suppuration was to take place it shall have come kindly on, but afterwards the erysipelatous shall take place. This may be called a remote inflammation, and is in this respect some- what similar to the locked jaw. It is more commonly a cutaneous in- flammation than situated in the deeper-seated parts, although in some constitutions every inflammation, wherever it exists, will most probably be of this kind ; however, the skin appears to be most susceptible of it, because it will spread over a prodigious surface of skin, while it does not affect even the cellular membrane underneath, at least not com- monly. There is an inflammation which attacks internal canals which