GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 32 it was the life of the body or vessels which kept it fluid; we know, how- ever, that life in the body or vessels does not hinder the blood from co- agulating under certain circumstances, but often rather excites coagu- lation. Nor does death, in the body or vessels, in all cases become a cause of coagulation; for we find that in many ■who die suddenly from a strong impression of the mind, the blood does not coagulate; there is, therefore, something more than the mere situation of the blood, sur- rounded ■with dead parts, that allows of coagulation ; and that must be a something in the blood itself. From these observations it must be evident that the fluid state of the blood is connected with the living vessels, which is its natural situation, and with motion; and that where there is a full power of life, the ves- sels are capable of keeping the blood in a fluid state. I believe, how- ever, very little motion is required to keep up this fluidity when the other is present. A total stagnation of the blood while the body is alive, as in a trance, or where the circulation has been stopped for se- veral hours, as in the case of persons apparently drowned®, does not make it coagulate; yet where there are no actions going on in a part, if the blood stagnates for a much shorter time than in a trance, it will be found coagulated, as in mortifications; but then this coagulation is to answer a good purpose, and arises from necessity*, which appears to act as a stimulus in disposing the blood to coagulate. As a proof that blood will not coagulate in living vessels, in a perfect and natural state, and ready to act when powers were restored to it, I found that the blood of a fish, which had the actions of life stopped for three days, and was supposed to be dead, did not coagulate in the ves- sels ; but, upon being exposed or extravasated, soon coagulated. The blood of a lamprey-eel, which had been dead to appearance some days, was found fluid in the vessels, because the animal was not really dead; there had, however, been no motion in the blood, as the heart * By action taking place from necessity, effects are meant which arise in consequence of some unusual or unnatural change going on in the parts, which becomes a stimulus to action. The stimuli, from this cause, may vary exceedingly among themselves; but as we are unable to investigate them, I have included them under this general term, stimulus of necessity. (See note, Vol. I. p. 236, and Index, art. Stimulus.) a [It is difficult to reconcile the results of physiological experiment with the accounts which have been given of recoveries from protracted asphyxia. It is extremely doubt- ful, under the most favourable circumstances, whether in drowning the heart ever con- tinues to pulsate for so long a period as five minutes after the cessation of respiration, or whether, having stopped its actions, it can ever be renewed. In trances also and the ordinary forms of syncope it is questionable whether the functions of respiration and circulation are ever wholly arrested. The statements which have been made on these subjects are certainly without foundation, and no better than extravagant fables.]