THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 479 and perfect at the place where I made the opening, which was the most protuberant of any; therefore this pointing did not appear to arise from weakness or thinness of this part; and even supposing that the point- ing was an effect of weakness, it would imply a great deal of pressure on the inside, (which at least was not the case here,) and simple pres- sure, although a hundred times greater, which we often see take place in dropsies, would not produce a pointing if not attended with some specific power®. If pressure then was not sufficient to produce this effect in the pre- sent case, and if the parts which pointed were as mechanically firm as at any other, to what other cause can we attribute the distention of this part, but to the weakening, elongating, and relaxing process which I have already described ? This observation of the relaxing process going on in the substance of the parts where it points is verified in a thousand instances. Suppose a large abscess in the thigh, only covered by the skin and adipose mem- brane, which shall go on for months without producing ulceration, and of course not point anywhere, but shall be a smooth, even, and uniform surface; let it receive the stimulus of ulceration in any one part, that * [Having previously expressed my doubts as to the existence of any special law de- termining the course of foreign bodies to the surface (p. 300, note), I may here be permitted to express the same doubts respecting abscesses. “ An internal pressure,” Mr. Hunter observes, p. 467, “produced by an extraneous body, acts equally on every side of the surrounding parts, and therefore every part being pressed alike, ought, from this cause alone, to produce absorption of the surrounding parts equally on all sides,” &c. A fallacy, however, is involved in this statement, arising from the omission of an important fact, viz. the resiliency or natural tonicity of the skin, which, being put still further on the stretch by the intrusion of a foreign body, reacts, so as to give a determi- nate direction to the force. In most cases this direction will be outwardly and inwardly, but inwardly the parts are not disposed to yield, and therefore in the same proportion as the external parts are more yielding than the internal, will there be an additional cause to determine the absorption in that direction; for I suppose it will not be doubted that extension and pressure are both powerful determining causes of inflammation and ulceration. With regard to abscesses, other mechanical causes of a tendency to the surface will come into operation besides the greater extensibility of parts in that direction. For by the bulging thus originally produced, the area of the upper surface of the cavity will be greater, even from the first, than that of the base : and as fluids under pressure act equally on equal areas, the whole amount of pressure outwards will be increased in proportion to the local augmentation of area. This preponderance of pressure must produce a greater degree of stretching and a more active ulcerative absorption here than elsewhere; and the cause in question will grow more and more effective as the promi- nence which it contributes to produce is augmented,—so that the pointing of the ab- scess will proceed with a constantly accelerated rapidity. These combined causes will manifestly be all in the fullest operation at the middle point of the outer surface of the cavity; here the cavities will be most stretched, be- cause the least supported; here the vital processes which produce attenuation will be