350 the adhesive inflammation. the cavity, a substance exactly similar to the coagulating lymph when separated from the serum and red blood, after common bleeding. That the blood, when thrown out of the circulation from an inflammatory state of the vessels, as well as the blood itself, unites parts together, is probably best seen in the inflammation of the larger cavities above men- tioned. The following I shall give as an example, which I have often observed on the peritonaeum of those who have died in consequence of inflammation of this membrane. The intestines are more or less united to one another, and, according to the stage of the inflammation, this union is stronger or weaker; in some it is so strong as to require some force to pull them asunder * ; the smooth peritonaeal coat is, as it were, lost, having become cellular, like cellular membrane. When the vessels of this part are injected, we shall find that in those parts where a sepa- ration has been made by laceration, previous to the injecting, the injec- tion will appear on that surface like small spots or drops, which shows that the vessels had at least passed to the very surface of the intestines. In parts where the union was preserved I have observed the three following facts. On separating the united parts I have observed in some places the vessels come to the surface of the intestines, and then terminate all at once. In other places I could observe the vessels pass- ing from the intestine into the extravasated substance, and there rami- fying, so that the vessel was plainly continued from the old into the new. In a vast number of instances I have observed, that in the substance of the extravasation there were a great number of spots of red blood in it, so that it looked mottled. The same appearance was very observable on the surface of separation, between the old substance and the new, a good deal like petechial spots. How this red blood got here is the thing to be considered, especially as a good deal was within the substance of the eoagulum. Was it extravasated along with the coagulated lymph ? In this case I should have rather supposed it would have been more dif- fused, and if not diffused, more attached to the intestine, and not in the centre of the eoagulum ; if it had been extravasation, one would have expected extravasation of injection, but we had none in any of these places; I have therefore suspected that parts have the power of making vessels and red blood independent of circulation. This appears to be evidently the case with the chick in the egga. Adhesions in consequence of inflammation become very soon strong, and are very soon elongated; probably as soon as they become organized they adapt themselves to their situation or the necessity. Thus the dog which had his belly opened to wound some lacteals, when killed on the ninth day, had his intestines connected by adhesion in several places, arid those very firm and long. * [See p. 07, and note, and also the note to the explanation of Plate XVI.]