OK THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SIIOT WOUNDS. 569 whole seemed getting better; but the day before he died, he became worse in his breathing, which we imputed to his stirring too much, and was rather better on the day that he did die : just before death he was taken with a sort of suffocation, and in half an hour he died. 'I hrough his whole illness he had a moist skin, and sometimes sweated profusely ; at last his legs swelled. At first he only took a spermaceti mixture with a little opium, which gave him relief; I wanted to increase the opium, but it was objected to, for fear it should bind the chest too much, as it often does in asthmas, therefore it was given with the squills. On the day that he died, we ordered him the bark with a sudorific. As this was very different from a common asthma, and the difficulty of breathing arose entirely from the inflammation of the intercostal muscles and lungs, and likewise from having but one lung, I thought it advisable to give opium in this case, as it would take off the irritation ot the inflamed parts, and therefore allow a greater stretch or expansion; especially as we found whenever it was given that it gave relief and produced these effects. One might at first wonder why he should breathe with such difficulty, as he had one side whole or sound; for I have seen people breathe pretty freely who have had but one side to expand ; but when we consider the case, we can easily account for this. After death we opened him. On raising the sternum I cut into the cavity of the thorax, and a great deal of blood gushed out at the incision ; we sponged out of the left side of the thorax above three quarts of fluid blood; the coagulum appeared to have been attracted to the sides of the cavity everywhere, as if it had been furred over with the coagu- lating lymph, which was nowhere floating in the fluid; but most pro- bably the extravasated blood had never coagulated, and this thick huffy crust was an exudation of coagulating lymph from the lungs and pleura, which covers the ribs as in all inflammations ; if so, this is another in- stance, beside that of the inflammation of veins, in which the coagula- ting lymph coagulates immediately upon being thrown upon the surface; for if it had not, it then must have mixed with the blood in the chest, and only been found floating there. The lung was collapsed into a very small substance, and was therefore firmer than common; we observed the wound in it, which corresponded to the wound in the pleura; I in- troduced a probe into the wound in the lung, which passed near four inches, but was not certain whether it did not make some way for itself; however, I traced the wound by opening the lung, and could easily di- stinguish the wounded part by the coagulated blood that lay in it. I found flic heart and inside of the pericardium inflamed, and their surfaces fur-