FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 313 that parts may be so susceptible, or rather disposed, for this action that they may immediately run into it when deranged. If this notion be well founded, then it may be a question-whether this local affection relieves the constitution for the time from any susceptibility for such an action. It maybe disputed whether the following are all inflammations or not. They often arise from the same causes : accident, for instance, produces all of them. They have certainly many characters in common, although not always the same result. The vessels becoming enlarged, there is an extravasation, pain, and a separation of the cuticle, but seldom a formation of matter, although there sometimes is, which happens when they have at first more of the adhesive state ; and there is a circum- stance which I think is common to them, namely, a red streak passing from the inflamed part generally towards the trunk, although not always in this direction. In common language they are called erysipelatous, although very different, the erysipelatous being one of the best marked inflammations of any. I do not mean to treat of these but in a general way, not even when considering the method of cure. It is probable there is no specific distinction between any of these inflammations but what arises from the constitution or the parts, for we find them all pro- ceeding from what may be called the same accidental cause, which there- fore cannot produce anything specific ; the distinctions in the mode of action of the inflamed parts being occasioned by a peculiarity in the con- stitution, or the nature of the part itself; but probably in the consti- tution. It has been supposed that the different species or varieties of inflam- mation arise from the difference in the nature of the part inflamed ; but this is certainly not the case*; for if it was, we should soon be made acquainted with all the different inflammations in the same person, at the same time, and even in the same wound: for instance, in an ampu- tation of a leg, where we cut through skin, cellular membrane, muscle, tendon, periosteum, bone, and marrow, the skin should give us the in- flammation of its kind, the cellular membrane of its kind, the muscles of theirs, the tendons of theirs, the periosteum, bone, marrow, &c. of theirs; but we find it is the same inflammation in them all: it is the adhesive in them all if the parts are brought together, it is the suppu- rative if the parts are exposed. I shall at present only take notice of the four last , as I mean to treat more fully of the first, which cannot c bo completely understood without seeing the distinctions. * [See note, p. 310.] b [Namely, the species of inflammation referred to at p. 310, viz. the cedematous ery- sipelatous, carbunculous, and sloughy inflammations.] ’ '