THE TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. 523 those in hard parts, such as bones, joints, etc. Abscesses in soft parts, not connected with the hard, will owe more of their size to distention than those in soft parts connected with the hard; for instance, an ab- scess in the calf of the leg, thick of the thigh, buttock, etc., will owe more of its size to distention than an abscess on the shin-bone, on the head, etc. Therefore an abscess, whose size is in some degree owing to distention, need not be so freely opened as one that is not; because when the distention is taken off by the discharge of the pus, the parts will contract, or fall into their natural position, which cannot so easily happen in the other case. Besides, the granulations will also be allowed to contract in the one case, much more than in the other. However, we find many abscesses healing very readily without any other opening than what was at first made by ulceration, and this will be more readily efleeted if the abscess has been allowed to break of itself, which I shall now more fully explain. §• "• Of the lime when Abscesses should be opened. The natural process that abscesses are obliged to go through for the discharge of their contents is in general the most proper, and it is so much so as to be in most cases allowed to go on; and this process becomes more necessary in unsound abscesses than in sound ones, as it exposes them more fully, from ulceration having destroyed more of the parts between the seat of the abscess and the external parts. As abscesses, wherever formed, must increase as they approach the skin, and therefore increase that part of their cavity next to the skin faster than at the bottom, so that they become in some degree tapering towards the bottom, with a wide part immediately under the skin; and this will be more or less so, according to their depth, their meeting with different substances which give a resistance to the pus, or their coming fast or slowly to the skin. This shape of the abscess, when allowed to take place, is well adapted for healing; for it puts the bottom, which is the seat of the disease, more upon a footing with the mouth of the abscess than it otherwise could be. W hen these two are not well proportioned there is a retardment in the cure; for as the bottom, or part where the abscess begun, is more or less in a diseased state, and as the parts between the seat of the ab- scess and the external surface are sound parts, having only allow'ed a passage for the pus, they of course have a stronger disposition to heal than the bottom has; and we commonly find this to be the ease. It there could be made at any time a difference in the powers of heal- ing between the mouth of the abscess and its bottom, it ought to be