298 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. admits of vast variety, (diseases being almost numberless,) and is that which always attends an unhealthy constitution or part, and will be ac- cording to the kind of health in that constitution or part, but princi- pally according to the constitution; however, many parts naturally have a tendency to run into inflammations of particular kinds. Most of those arising from the nature of the constitution are, I conceive, in most cases, if not in all, called, although erroneously, the erysipelatous in- flammation ; which will be further taken notice of. The simple act of inflammation cannot be called specific, for it is a uniform or simple action in itself; but it may have peculiarities or spe- cific actions superadded. Inflammation is either single or compound : it may be called single when it has only one mode of action in the part inflamed, as in its first stages ; compound, when attended with another mode of action, or when it produces other effects. Inflammation is capable of producing three different effects, viz. ad- hesions of the parts inflamed, suppuration in the parts, and ulceration of those parts; which I have called the adhesive, the suppurative, and the ulcerative inflammation. The last, or ulcerative, is properly speak- ing, only a secondary effect of inflammation, not being performed by the same vessels; however, it is possible it may keep up inflammation, as it always keeps up a species of violence, viz. a destruction of the parts. The two first do not take place in the same vessels at the same time, but succeed one another, although all the three effects may exist at the same time in the different parts of the same inflammation. I have placed the adhesive first in order, although it is not always so; for, with respect to the priority of those three actions of inflammation, it depends principally upon the nature of the parts, together with the degrees of violence of the inflammation. To explain this more fully we 9hall first divide the body, respecting inflammation, into two parts, viz. the cellular membrane, or the body in general, together with the circumscribed cavities, as belonging to the first; and then all the outlets of the body, as the second. We shall treat of each according to the nature of the parts, and of the inflamma- tion joined, and observe their effects, which will show that the common effects of one, as to priority, may be changed into those of the others, and become second or third, according to the nature of the parts, the inflammation, and its degree of violence. We may observe that inflammation, but more especially the suppu- rative, in the first order of parts, more readily takes place nearer to the surface of the body than in parts more deeply seated ; and as a proof of this observation it lias been formerly observed that tumors, and even