276 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. consist either in fever or inflammation ; but I believe we have much less occasion for evacuations in inflammation than there was formerly; the lancet therefore in inflammation, and also purgatives, are much more laid aside. How far climate varies the constitution, so as to alter the nature of diseases, I do not at present know ; but it would appear from Dr. Blane’s account that inflammation is hardly a disease in the West Indies. How far an alteration in the mode of life is the cause of this diffe- rence I will not pretend to say, but certainly the way of life is very much altered. We certainly live now more fully than what they did formerly: we may be said to live above par. At the full stretch of living, therefore, when disease attacks us, our powers cannot be excited further, and we sink, so as to require being supported and kept up to that mode of life to which we have been accustomed. A kind of constant state and variety of mind may often alter consti- tutions so much as to alter the mode of diseased action, which is much more common in some countries than others. We may be pretty cer- tain that this state of mind often produces the inflammation of the gout. Probably there is but little power in art to correct the susceptibility of inflammation; however, if the susceptibility of the body be similar to that of the mind it ought to be in some degree corrected by art. The mind is corrected by reason, together with habit, but the body can only have the last employed upon it: it might be made less susceptible by the immediate causes coming slowly upon it, or by avoiding those causes, and even acting in diametrical opposition to them. Phis will a least answer in the acquired susceptibilities. The acquired susceptibility for inflammation, or indeed for any other disease as it is acquired by art or habit, may be lessened simply by a cessation of those habits ; and the habit is of any particular kind, which is always ascertainable, then the habit of the contrary is to be used, which must also be ascertainable. Strength and weakness are the opposites of each other, and therefore must have very different effects in disease. They have very different powers in resisting disease, in their mode of action, and also m their readiness to terminate that action. Strength, probably, under every circumstance, produces good effects, or at least it is always more m the power of management by art than weakness. I can conceive, however, that too much strength might act with too much power, becoming un- manageable under disease that excites action. _ In inflammation when the constitution is strong then it will be com- monly the most manageable, for strength lessens irritability. But m every kind of constitution inflammation will be the most manageable where the power and the action are pretty well proportioned; but as