THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 459 CHAPTER VI. THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. In considering the origin and course of the blood, it would have been most natural to have considered absorption, or the absorbing vessels; for in one point of view they may be considered as the animal consist- ing of so many mouths, everything else depending upon them or belong- ing to them, for in tracing these dependencies we find that there exists ultimately little else but absorbents. The stomach and the organs con- nected with it in such animals as have a stomach, are to be considered ns subservient to this system; and many an animal is to be considered as consisting of a number of stomachs8. A piece of coral, for instance, appears to be no more than a thousand stomachs, all taking in food for digestion and absorption, for increase and support of the whole; for each stomach does not increase as the piece of coral increases, but they multiply in number, and of course the whole piece of coral increases ; for although each appears to be a distinct animal yet it is not so. But as this is too general a view of this system for our present purpose, I shall leave it, and confine myself principally to the uses of the absorb- ents m the diseases of which I am going to treat; and as one of their uses in diseases, and indeed the principal one, has not been described, nor indeed in the least conjectured, that it may be clearly understood or distinguished from the other known uses, I shall relate first the more common uses which have been formerly assigned to this system. hirst, the absorbents take up extraneous matter, in which is included nourishment. Secondly, superfluous and extravasated matter, whether natural or diseased. Thirdly, the fat. Fourthly, they produce a waste of parts, in consequence of which muscles become smaller, bones become lighter, etc. Although these two last effects were perhaps not expressly said to be carried on by ab- sorption, either by veins or any other system of vessels, yet we must suppose they were understood : so far the absorbents have in general been considered as active parts in the animal ccconomy; but from a a [See note, p. 1161.