OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 40G by being wounded, &c., then the stimulus of imperfection is given, and the cells inflame, and unite if allowed; but if prevented, they then sup- purate, granulate, &c. The same observation is applicable to a wound made into the cavity of the abdomen of a fowl, for here the wound inflames and unites to the intestines to make it a perfect cavity again; but if this union is not allowed to take place, then more or less of the abdomen will inflame and suppurate. If it was necessary that air should be admitted in order for suppura- tion to take place, we should not very readily account for suppuration taking place in the nose from a cold, as this part is not more under the influence of air at one time than at another; nor is the urethra in a gonorrhoea affected by the air more at that time than at any other. These parts being at all times under the same circumstances with re- spect to air, therefore there must be another cause. The sympathetic fever has been supposed a cause, V’hich will be con- sidered when I treat of the formation of pus. In cases of violence I have endeavoured to give a tolerably distinct idea of the steps leading to suppuration ; but w'e are still at a loss with respect to the immediate cause of those suppurations which appear to arise spontaneously, for in these it is almost impossible to determine whether the inflammation itself be a real disease, viz. an original mor- bid affection, or whether it may not be (as is evidently the case -when from external violence) a salutary process of nature to restore parts whose functions, and perhaps texture, has been destroyed by some pre- vious and almost imperceptible disease or cause. Suppuration being, in cases of violence, a means of restoration, affords a presumption that it is a like instrument of nature in spontaneous cases. If it is the first, viz. a real disease, then two causes that are different in themselves can produce one effect, or one mode of action, for the result of both is the same; but if it is the last, then suppuration must be considered as depending on exactly the same stimulus being given, as in the above- mentioned instance of violence. Suppuration does not arise from the violence of the action of the parts inflamed, for that circumstance simply rather tends to produce mortifi- cation ; and we see that in the gout, which does not suppurate, there is often more violent inflammation than in many others that do. All internal canals likewise suppurate with very slight inflammation, when not in an irritable habit; but if of a very irritable disposition, the action will almost exceed suppuration, and by its becoming milder, suppuration will come on. But if we suppose the cause of inflammation to be a disposition in the