OF TIIR SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 453 perhaps it may have gone some steps towards a cure before opening; the inflammation still lessens, the suppuration becomes more perfect, gra- nulations begin to form, and all of these steps naturally take placo, because inflammation had been the cause; but when a collection of matter not preceded by inflammation is opened, a very different process is first to take place, viz. inflammation is now excited over the whole cavity of the abscess, which afterwards produces a perfect matter, simi- lar to that produced in consequence of inflammation, when it is the original disease, and which now produces its constitutional affection, if it is such as to have connexion with the constitution ; but this will de- pend on the size of the abscess, the situation and the nature of the parts, &c. However, it sometimes happens that they inflame before they are opened ; but this is in consequence of the matter distending the cavity, and thereby acting as an extraneous body. I have seen white swellings in the knee inflame before they were opened, then ulceration take place, and the pus brought soon to the skin, even after it had been confined for months, without producing the least tendency to ulceration, because there had been none to inflammation ; but the confinement of the matter becomes a cause of the inflammation, and then ulceration takes place. The inflammation and new suppuration taking place in consequence of opening into these abscesses is exactly similar to those arising in con- sequence of wounds or openings made into natural cavities; it was still, therefore, necessary that they should go through all the common steps towards restoration; but unfortunately such inflammations have begun at the wrong end; they have also set down upon a specific dis- ease, which they can seldom alter to their own nature. The inflamma- tion is in such cases extended over a much larger surface than the ori- ginal ; which is not the case in abscess in consequence of inflammation, for there the inflammation was the cause and confined to the point. In some cases, as in lumbar abscess, the extent of surface to inflame is immense in comparison to the extent of the original disease ; and of course, when such abscesses inflame, the symptoms in the constitution are in the same proportion. How different is this from the opening of the abscess in consequence of inflammation ! There we have no inflammation following, except what arises in consequence of the wound made in the solids in the operation of opening; but when it is allowed to open of itself there is no consequent inflammation, but suppuration goes on. But it would appear that when those collections of matter are allowed to open of themselves, that the succeeding inflammation does not so readily take place as when opened by art. I have seen large lumbar abscesses open of themselves on the lower part of the loins, which have discharged a large quantity