261 UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. everything should be kept quiet till restoration of the injury has taken place. In many parts of the body this practice is not so injurious as in others, in which it may be attended with very serious consequences. I hus, when a man has suffered a concussion of the brain, and perhaps a blood-vessel has given way, the mind is deranged, becoming either defective or too acute; and if these symptoms should continue but a little while, the medical assistant applies blisters to remove the effect, either forgetting or not rightly judging the cause. This is even carried further: we hardly see a man taken with all the signs of an apoplexy where a paralysis in some part takes place, or hemiplegia*, but that he is immediately attacked with cordials, stimulants, electricity, etc. Upon a supposition that it is nervous, debility, etc., the poor body is also tor- tured, because it cannot act, the brain not being in a condition to in- fluence the voluntary muscles: we might with exactly the same propriety stimulate the fingers when their muscles were tom to pieces. I must own I never saw one of them which had not an extravasation of blood m the brain when opened, excepting one, who died of a gouty affection in the brain, with symptoms similar to apoplexy fa. Such a case, most probably, would require a very different mode of treatment, therefore when it happens to a gouty man, blisters to the head, feet, etc. would probably be the best practice; but surely this would not be the proper practice in a rupture of a vessel: we ought to bleed at once very largely, especially from the temporal artery, till the patient begins to show si-ns of recovery, and to continue it till he begins to become faintish. We should give saline purges freely, to diminish impetus and promote ab sorption; then great quietness should be enjoined, and as little exercise of body as possible, and especially to avoid coughing and sneezing. * It may be observed here, that the only difference between an apoplexy and hemi- p cgia is m degree, for they both arise from extravasations of blood. t For many years I have been particularly attentive to those who have been attacked j . * pa.ralyt,C Str0ke’ f0rminS a hemiplegia. I have watched them while alive that done m thT “ °PP°rtUnlt-V t0 °Pen them when dead; and in all I found an injury done to the brain, in consequence of the extravasation of blood. I have examined them at all stages, when it was recent, some of weeks’ standing, others of months’ „n I f of years’, in which I saw the progress of reparation. ’ a"d “ *W genendly6true m!!ft h" tT 85 aS ** condcmnati°» of stimulants, although generally true, must be taken with some exceptions. Apoplexy and hemipWia not unfrequently occur without the slightest trace of sanguineous or even of serous effusion sudden 1SC°Verable after death> such cases seemingly depending on simple inanition’ U thU treatment is not necessarily e“