UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 242 inosculates, whether by the two orifices when opposed having a mutual attraction, and, instead of contracting the two portions of the ruptured vessel elongating, so as to approach each other reciprocally, and unite* *, or whether by a new piece of vessel being formed in the intermediate coagulable lymph, is not easily determined*. Inosculation, however, can only take place where the extent of the parts divided is not great, and the opposite surfaces remain near each other; but even then it is most probable that we must in part ascribe to another mode of union the communication of vessels which takes * Inosculation is a term commonly used by writers, but whether it was derived from theory or observation is not material. The very few instances where it can be observed, together with the want of accuracy in those who first introduced the term, would incline me to think that it arose from theory or opinion only. I never could get an opportu- nity of observing it in all my experiments and observations on inflammation, except in the coats of the eye. In many inflammations of that organ we find an artery or arte- ries passing from the tunica conjunctiva to the cornea, and ramifying on that part. These have been often cut across to prevent the influx of blood ; the two ends are seen to shrink, but in a little time they are again perceived to unite, and the circulation to be carried on as before. In this there can be no deception ; and to perform, therefore, such an operation effectually a, part of the vessel should be removed i [Nothing certainly is known respecting the mode in which vessels inosculate. According to Professor Thomson, Mr. Hunter was deceived respecting the direct inos- culation of the vessels of the sclerotic coat of the eye. “ An attentive examination,” he says, “of the phenomena will show that it is not the divided extremities that unite again, but the folds of small branches that are prolonged into the intermediate space, which become channels of communication between the larger trunks, which had been divided, but the extremities of which had been previously closed.” (Led. on Inflam., p. 213.) This account, however, does not appear to me to render the matter at all more clear. With regard to the means employed by nature for arresting haemorrhage, see note, i. 359.] . • [Arteries of considerable size are sometimes regenerated in the lower animals. Dr. Parry tied the carotid artery of a young ram in two places, and removed two inches and a half of the intermediate portion, but in twenty-seven days the vessel was con* pletely restored, so tliat scarcely any evidence appeared of the operation having been performed. In another case the right and left carotids of a young ram were lied with single ligatures, but the continuity of these arteries was also completely restored in the course of eight weeks, although not in so perfect a manner as in the former experiment. The process by which this is accomplished seems to be us follows. Coagulable lymph is first poured out by the inflamed vessels in the intermediate space between the two ligatures, which soon becomes organized, when a number of minute vessels may b* observed extending in parallel lines between the two extremities of the artery, and thus making a communication between them. After a time one of these vessels is observ»*J to enlarge, till at length it acquires the full size of the original vessel; but, in propor- tion as this takes place, the others dwindle away, and the superfluous lymph become* absorbed. Such at least seems to be the process in brute animals where a portion of* large artery has been removed. I am not aware that anything similar has been © served in man.]