OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 557 of the back-bone. The reason of this strange course I have already observed in the case, was owing to his having had his arm stretched out horizontally at the time he was wounded, and the ball passed on in a straight line. These uncertainties in the direction of the balls above mentioned have made the common bullet-forceps almost useless; yet forceps are not to be entirely thrown aside, for it will often happen that a ball will be found to lie pretty near the external wound, which, if the ball was re- moved, would probably heal by the first intention ; for in such superficial wounds they must have passed with little velocity; or if there was a part killed, it would heal immediately; but if there is a slough, the ex- traction is best done after all inflammation, and the separation of the slough is over, for then the passage of the ball is better ascertained, in consequence of the surrounding adhesive inflammation ; and moreover, the granulations are beginning to push the extraneous body towards the surface; but the operation of ulceration, which brings it to the skin, being often too slow, the ball, etc. had better be extracted, and even the part might be dilated. However, I would be very cautious how far I carried this practice, and only do it when all circumstances favoured. For the same reasons probes are become of little use ; indeed, I think that they should never be used but by way of satisfaction, in knowing sometimes what mischief is done; we can perhaps feel if a bone is touched, or if a ball is near, etc., but when all this is known it is a hun- dred to one if we can vary our practice in consequence of it. If the wound will admit of it, the finger is the best instrument. In cases where the ball passes a considerable way under the skin, and near to it, I think it would be advisable to make an opening midway between the two orifices which were made by the ball (especially when the orifices are at a very great distance), that fractured bones, or extra- neous bodies may now or hereafter be better extracted; for if this is not done we have often an abscess forming between them, which indeed answers the same purpose, and often better; but sometimes it should not be delayed for such an event to take place. Where the ball has passed immediately under the skin, as in the case where the ball passed between the skin and tibia, it will be often proper to open the whole length of the passage of the ball, the necessity of wliicli I think arises from the skin not so readily uniting with the parts underneath, as muscles do with one another. Although we have given up in a great measure the practice of search- ing after a ball, broken bones, or any other extraneous bodies, yet it often happens that a ball shall pass on till it comes in contact with the