OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 163 muscular; an artery under such circumstances being to the touch as hard as a cord. But if the muscular contraction be destroyed by stretching, or passing something through the artery, then it becomes very soft and pliant, and the muscular coat having once been stretched, without having the power of contracting again, is thrown into irregu- larities by the action of the elastic. The elastic coat of an artery is fibrous, and the direction of its fibres is principally transverse or circular ; but where a branch is going off, or at the division of an artery into two, the direction of the fibres is very irregular. I cannot say that I have found any fibres which are to a great degree oblique or longitudinal, a circumstance that shows their simple elasticity to be equal to the intention or use, a transverse or circular di- rection of fibres not being the most advantageous for producing the great- est effect*. They are also elastic laterally [longitudinally?], from the direction of their fibres, which property shortens the artery when elon- gated by the blood, and I believe the muscles have little share in this ac- tion ; the whole of which tends to show that the elastic power is equal to the task of producing, and really does produce, the natural state of the artery. What the direction of the muscular fibres may be I never could discover, but should suppose them oblique, because the degree of con- traction appears greater than a straight muscle could produce, in which light a circular muscle is to be considered, as its effects are in the di- rection of its fibres ; for either the diameter or the circumference of the. artery will decrease in the same proportion, but not the area, which will decrease in proportion to the square of the diameter. We should naturally suppose that, where the action of the heart is strong, elasticity is the best property to sustain its force; and that where the force and elasticity are well proportioned, no mischief can ensue. Where the force, therefore, of the heart is greatest there is the greatest degree of elasticity, which yields with reluctance, and constantly endeavours to oppose and counteract that force. From these active powers of an artery, together with a foreign power, viz. the blood, acting upon them and distending their parietes, in a manner somewhat similar to the common action of fluids in canals, we may perceive that there are three actions which take place, all of which operate in concert with each other, and produce one ultimate effect. As the filling of the cavity of an artery produces an extension of its coats in every direction, the arteries are endowed with the elastic power, * This is a principle in mechanics so well known that it need not here he explained : we find it happily introduced in the disposition of muscles in various parts of the body. M 2