THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION'. 352 In many places where this extravasation has been in considerable quan- tities, it is formed in time into cellular membrane. I have observed that this mode of separation of the coagulating lymph is not peculiar to in- flammation ; it is separated in many diseases. It is thrown out to form tumours, etc. where inflammation does not seem to be a leading cause® ; and we often find the adhesive stages, as it were, degenerate into, or terminate in the formation of a cyst, to contain the body that was the cause of the inflammation. Thus, a sac is formed for bullets, pieces of glass, etc. It is unnecessary to instance every possible situation where adhesions could be produced; they can take place wherever there are two internal surfaces in contact, or that can be brought into contact. I cannot give a better instance of its utility in the animal oeconomy than in the fol- lowing experiment: I wished to know in wounds which penetrated into the chest (many of which I have seen in the army), where suppuration had come on the whole cavity of the chest, as well as on the surface of the lungs, and where the lungs collapsed, how parts were reinstated, or in what form they healed; whether the lungs, etc. lost their suppu- rating disposition, and dilated, so as to fill the chest again. To ascer- tain this as far as one well could, I made the following experiment on a dog. October 1779 I made an opening between the ribs into the chest of a dog, and touched the edges of the wound all round with caustic, to prevent it from healing by the first intention, and then allowed the dog to do as he pleased. The air at first passed in and out of his chest by the wound. He ate, etc. for some days, but his appetite gradually be- gan to fall off. He breathed with difficulty, which increased ; he lay principally on that side which we find people do who have the lungs diseased on one side only or principally; and he died on the eleventh day after the opening. On opening the body I found the collapsed lungs passing directly across the chest, and attached to the inside of the wound all round, so that they excluded the canty of the chest from all external communication. This circumstance, of the lungs falling across the chest, was owing to his having lain principally on that side, which I conceived to have been only accidental. The cavity of the chest all round was filled with air. That part of the external surface of the lungs which did not adhere, that is to say, the part opposite the upper surface of the diaphragm, and that part of the pleura which covered the ribs, were entirely free from inflammation or suppuration; this cavity, from these adhesions, being rendered a perfect cavity, shows that air, simply. “ [See I. 3C7, note.]