ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 613 ADDITIONAL CASES TO ILLUSTRATE MR. HUNTER’S METHOD OF PERFORMING THE OPERATION FOR THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. By Sir Everard Home, Bart., F.R.S. Read June 5, 1798. [Prom the Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge, Vol. II. p. 235. 1800.] In a former paper published in the first volume of the Transactions of this Society, I stated the reasons that induced the late Mr. Hunter to propose this operation, and mentioned all the cases in which it had at that time been performed, either by himself or others. Since Mr. Hunter’s death two cases have occurred in which the pa- tients had aneurisms in both popliteal arteries, and others where the disease was only in one. In these cases this operation was performed, and the intention of the present paper is to communicate to the Society these new facts. Case I. John Clegg, aged 33 years, a tobacco-pipe maker, was ad- mitted into St. George’s Hospital May 29th, 1797, with two popliteal aneurisms. It appeared that about eight weeks before his admission, while walking, he felt, for the first time, an acute pain in the calf of the right leg, ex- tending downwards, which gradually increased. Three weeks after- wards he perceived a swelling in the ham, which enlarged, and in a week more had an evident pulsation in it : this swelling proved to be an aneurism of the popliteal artery. 1 he knee also swelled, and was painful. WTien he came into the hospital the aneurismal tumour in the right ham appeared externally through the skin, of the size of a large hen’s egg: there was also at that time a small aneurism in the popliteal artery of the other leg. He had thick lips, a very red nose, and a pale complexion ; and for some months past had experienced frequent bleedings from the nose. 1 he nature of his business obliged him to walk, upon an average, 16 or 17 miles a day, carrying pipes to his respective customers, with the greater part of whom he was compelled to drink porter, which, in the course of the day, did not amount to less than 8 or 10 pints. There seemed to have been no other particularity in his mode of life.