ON LOOSE CARTILAGES IN JOINTS. 627 facts in confirmation of this theory, that it appears to me to afford a full explanation of the process above mentioned, and completely to esta- blish the opinion. A man, sixty-eight years of age, was brought into St. George’s Ho- spital, on the 20th of March, 1791, with a simple fracture of the right thigh-bone, i he fracture was situated about three inches below the great trochanter; it was treated in the usual manner, but no bony union had taken place in the beginning of June, about eleven weeks after the ac- cident, the portions of bone at that time being readily moved on each other. There being nothing in the man’s general health to account for this backwardness in the parts to unite, he was desired to explain what- ever circumstance he was acquainted with respecting himself, likely to throw any light upon it. This inquiry led the patient to mention, that his right os humeri had been broken three years and nine months be- fore, but that the bones had continued disunited, and admitted of motion more freely at that time than immediately after the accident. Rest having proved ineffectual in producing union in the thigh, and it being evident, from the circumstance of the arm, that there was a na- tural backwardness in the constitution to form bony union, he was di- rected to walk upon crutches, and to press as much upon the broken thigh as the state of the parts would admit, without considerable pain, with a view to rouse the parts to action, forcing them by a species of necessity to strengthen the limb. In the course of a fortnight there was an evident firmness in the bone, and in less than two months the patient could walk with the assistance of a stick. As there was something uncommon in the case, he was allowed to remain in the hospital to acquire strength ; in this convalescent state he was seized with a complaint in his bowels, which was very violent, and carried him off. After death the thigh-bone was found firmly repaired by bony union, but the bone of the arm, an account of which is more immediately to the present subject, admitted of motion in every direction at the frac- tured part. The arm was carefully dissected, to examine the state of the frac- tured parts, between which there was no callus, but a large bag filled with a glary fluid, resembling synovia. (See Plate XXIV. fig. 3.) The internal surface of this bag was smooth, like a capsular ligament, and its attachment to the bones was of the same kind : it adhered firmly to the surrounding parts, which were thickened and consolidated, rendering it very strong. The two ends of the bone were adapted to each other, all the irregularities having been absorbed ; and their surfaces were of considerable extent, from the fracture being oblique ; the upper one was