367 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. for in many diseases we are much more certain of a cure than in others; but still, even in them, the certainty does not arise from reasoning upon any more fixed data than in others where the certainty of a cure is less, but it arises from a greater experience alone : it is still no more than inferring, that in what is now to be tried, there is a probable effect or good to arise in the experiment, from what has been found serviceable in similar cases. Diseases, however, of the same specific nature, not only vary in their visible symptoms or actions, but in many of those that are invisible, arising probably from peculiarities of constitution and causes, which will make the effects of applications vary probably almost in the same proportion; and as those varieties cannot be known, so as either to adapt the specific medicine to them, or to suit the disease to the medicine, it will then be only given upon a general principle, which of course may not correspond to the peculiarities. Even in well marked specific diseases, where there is a specific remedy, we find that there are often peculiarities which counteract the simple specific medicine. This we even see in poisons, which produce the simplest instances of specific disease, because the effects always depend on the same causes'*. The peculiarities therefore in the disease must arise from a peculiarity in the constitution, and not from the cause of the disease. The inflammation I have been treating of is the most simple of any, because it is the simple action of the parts unmixed with any specific quality, arising from causes of no specific kind, and attacking constitu- tions and parts not necessarily having any specific tendency. The cure therefore, or method of terminating the inflammation, which is called resolution, (in cases that will admit of it,) must also be very simple, if we knew it; and accordingly, when the cure of such is known, it lays the foundation of the general plan for the treatment of all inflamma- tions of the same kind. But it very rarely happens that a constitution is perfectly free from a tendency to some disease* ; we seldom there- fore see simple salutary actions of parts tending to relieve themselves from a violence committed: some constitutions being so irritable that the inflammation has no disposition to terminate, and others so indo- lent that the inflammation passes into another species, as into scrofula; all of which will require very different treatment. The same varieties take place in specific inflammations, as also in inflammations arising from poisons ; for many will have the true inflam- matory disposition joined with the specific. In such therefore the same * Vide the varieties of the inflammation, in the Introduction. a [The passage in the original text runs thus: “ This we even see in poisons, the most simple specific of all, because its effect arises in all cases from one cause."]