OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 424 of matter, then closed up, then broke out anew, and so on for months, without giving any other disturbance1*; but when opened, so as to give a free discharge to the matter, inflammation has immediately succeeded, fever has come on, and, from the situation of the parts inflamed, as well as their extent, death in a very days after has been the consequence: it therefore often becomes a question whether we should enlarge the first opening or not. We may observe in general that in cases of this kind, where they are to terminate ill, that is, where they cannot be cured, and are such as to affect the constitution, the consequent inflammation upon opening them, which produces the sympathetic fever, has that fever commonly terminating in the hectic, or continued into the hectic, before any recess takes place, so that the one is continued into the other without any intermission ; however, this is not always the case, and those variations will depend on the state of the sore, the state of the constitution, &c. §. G. The Effects of the Suppurative Inflammation on the Constitution. It is to be observed, that every local complaint of any consequence, or which has considerable and quick action within itself, although not of considerable magnitude, affects more or less the constitution, and gives rise to what has been commonly called the symptomatic fever. These symptoms are the sympathies of the constitution with a local dis- ease or injury, and will vary according to a vast variety of circumstances. They will vary according to the nature of the constitution, which admits of great differences, and which will include different ages; they will vary according to the nature of the part in a state of disease, which also admits of great differences; they will vary according to the quantity of mischief done, as well as the manner of its being done ; that is, whether so as to call forth immediate inflammation, as a Avound; or not so im- mediate, as from having only killed a part: they will vary according to the situation of similar parts in the body; and they Avill A’ary according to the stage of the disease. This last variation may be divided into two * [It was in imitation of this method of Nature that the late Mr. Abernethy suggested the propriety of opening large abscesses by a small valvular aperture, discharging part of the contents, and then healing up the opening. (See his Works, vol. ii.) There is reason to believe that the inflammation which frequently succeeds the dis- charge of lurge abscesses in the common way is due to the admission of air, which act- ing on the effused blood, or perhaps on the matter itself, occasions decomposition. In this manner the sac is directly irritated, and the constitution greatly disturbed by the absorption of putrid matter.]