240 UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. when injured, assuming the scrofulous action, called white swelling; or if a woman beyond thirty years of age receives a blow on the breast, it is more likely to acquire the cancerous mode of action than that of re- storation, which should he well distinguished from what is immediately consequent, viz. the inflammation; for on this depends a knowledge of diseases. Although accident may be said to produce an effect on a part (what- ever that effect may be,) which has a tendency to its own cure, yet there are often not only immediate consequences arising from that effect, as inflammation ; and again, the consequences of this inflammation, as sup- puration ; but the bases of diseases are also frequently laid by it, not by producing them immediately or naturally, but by exciting some sus- ceptibility of the constitution or of a part into a disposition for a disease which may be latent for a considerable time, and then come into action. Thus scrofula, cancer, &c. often arise from accident, even where the parts, in consequence of the injury, have gone through the immediate and the secondary stages of a cure. Those effects of accident which arise from the nature of the parts hurt may be divided into such as take place in sound parts, and such as affect parts already diseased. The first is what I shall at present treat of; the second, being connected with disease, is not to our present purpose. The injuries done to sound parts I shall divide into two sorts, accord- ing to the effects of the accident. The first kind consists of those in which the injured parts do not communicate externally, as concussions of the whole body or of particular parts, strains, bruises, and simple fractures, either of bone or of tendon, which form a large division. The second consists of those which have an external communication, comprehend- ing wounds of all kinds, and compound fractures. Bruises which have destroyed the life of the part may be considered as a third division, par- taking, at the beginning, of the nature of the first, but finally terminat- ing like the second®. §. 1. Of Injuries in ivhich there is no external Communication. The injuries of the first division, in which the parts do not communi- cate externally, seldom inflame, while those of the second commonly » [The greater violence of the inflammation succeeding to injuries which communi- cate externally may be a sufficient ground for the division of the text, although it should be remembered that the reparative processes are identically the same in both rases. Ruptured muscles and tendons, and many kinds of bruises, excite quite as much inflammation as clean incised wounds of the same parts.]