OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 195 The vascular system in an animal is, in some degree, to be considered as the efficient part of the whole animal respecting itself, every other part of the body being more or less subservient to it, and depending upon it for existence and support; and therefore, the greatest attention should be paid to every circumstance that can possibly explain the various uses of the vessels, for there is no operation respecting the internal ceconomy of the animal but is performed by them, insomuch, that for the con- venience of the vessels in performing those peculiar actions, they seem to constitute various combinations, which are called organs*. And al- though many parts have actions independent of the vessels, yet these are not for the purposes of growth, support, etc. So that the vessels are i constructed for the immediate use of the machine, and may be called labourers in the machine. This naturally implies something that is not vessel or vessels, a something that constitutes the different parts of the body, and is only more or less vascular. The vessels are probably the very first active parts in the system, for we find them in action before t they have formed themselves into a heart, and in such a state of parts we find them the only part that has any strength, while the other parts ; are only preparing for action : this is so remarkable, that we can dissect i the vessels of a chicken in the egg without injection, the other parts i easily giving way. These parts are formed of living animal matter, so 1 composed as to constitute the different structures, fitted for their differ- i ent uses, in the machine ; yet some parts are so vascular as to appear almost to consist wholly of vessels, as if vessels were formed into such structures; but this we cannot conceive, for then they must lose the ac- tion of vessels. In those animals where the vascular system is connected with a heart, which may be called the termination as well as origin of the vessels, we find that viscus to make so material a part of this system •Perhaps it may be difficult to give a definition of an organ that will meet every one’s ideas, or will distinguish those bodies accurately from what may be said not to be an organ. A muscle may be called an organ, but I would only consider it among the ma- terials of which an organ is composed. I have the same idea of elastic substances, cel- lular membrane, bone, cartilage, etc. I would, at present, define an organ to be a part of a particular construction, composed of a variety of substances, [elementary structures,] which are combined together to an- swer some particular purpose, which is the result of the actions of the whole. cilia as the cause. With respect to the canals which are continued from the stomach, and which convey by their ramifications the alimentary fluid directly to the parenchyma ■of the animal, these are beautifully exhibited by means of coloured injections in some ot the parenchymatous Entozoa and the Meditate in the preparation’s Nos. 843—848 in the Gallery of the Hunterian Collection.]