384 TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. lieve rather rouse. It is probably an action arising from the feel of weak- ness, and intended to relieve the person from that weakness. It is simi- lar to the hot fit of an ague, a counteraction to the cold one. There are few so weak but they will bear vomiting, but they cannot bear sick- ness long. If we had medicines which, when given internally, could be taken into the constitution, and were endowed with a power of making the vessels contract, such I apprehend would be proper medicines. Bark has cer- tainly this property, and is of singular service I believe in every inflam- mation attended with weakness, and therefore, I conceive, should be oftener given than is commonly done ; but it is supposed to give strength, which would not accord with inflammations attended with too much strength and considerable irritation. Preparations of lead, given in very small doses, might be given with success in cases attended with great strength. Applications to the body to cure or resolve inflammations are, with regard to their mode of application, of two kinds : one is applied to the part inflamed, the other to some distant part. The first may be called local, or absolute respecting the part itself; the second relative. But even the first may be considered as having a relative effect in one of its modes of action, viz. that called repulsion, from which local applica- tions have by some been objected to, and it is principally local applica- tions that can repel, although not literally. The first, or absolute effects of medicine, may be divided into two kinds, viz. one the simple cure of the part, the other producing an irri- tation of another kind in the part; both, however, act locally, and their ultimate effect is local. Local applications to a part, where those appli- cations possess really the powers of resolution, must be much more effi- cacious than any of the other modes of resolution. For instance, mer- cury has much greater powers when applied immediately to the venereal complaint, than when applied to the nearest surface; where, however, we have not medicines that can resolve inflammation by application, then of course the other method is the most efficacious; but whether we have external or local applications which have really a tendency to lessen the inflammatory disposition is not well ascertained. I doubt our being in possession of many that can remove the immediate cause. Such would of course remove the action, or, if not wholly, would at least lessen it, and allow the inflammation to go off. But most of our powers in this way appear to be of the soothing kind, which therefore lessen the action (although the cause may still exist), and hence the effects arc also lessened. This either produces a termination of the inflammation; or it is protracted, the cause lessens, and the inflammation wears itself out.