480 THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. part will immediately begin to point, although it may be thicker there than at some other parts of the same abscess. I he pressure necessary to allow extraneous matter to make its escape ctive because most stimulated; and it is in this situation that, cteteris paribus, the P lence is always observed to be most considerable, and that the abscess naturally C The annexed diagrams are intended to represent sections of an abscess in three se- veral degrees of its progress towards the surface; and will serve to illustrate the sug- gestions that have been thrown out as to the causes of the outward tendency of the contained fluid. It will be seen that the surface of the cavity towards the skin (6, bb, b b b), progressively increases in area at a quicker rate than the base (a, aa, ana). I his view I think is confirmed by the erratic course of internal abscesses, which only burrow in those directions in which the extensibility is greatest, as well as by the case of peritoneal abscess cited in the text, and that of chronic abscesses generally ; for as the superficies of an abscess becomes more extended, and as the disposition to absorption becomes less active, so of course will the disposition to acumination become less evident. In dropsies both these causes combine to prevent pointing; for here there is no disposition to progressive absorption arising from inflammation, and no dispo- sition to concentrate the acting force arising from inequality of extension. The discovery of final causes appears to have been a principal object in all Mr. Hun- ter’s investigations, and it must be confessed that few have ever been equally successful in this branch of inquiry. It was, however, the weakness as well as the strength of Hunter’s physiology, as it often led him to substitute the final for the efficient causes of phenomena, of which, it I am not mistaken, several examples might be adduced from the present chapter. As the above explanation is opposed to the received opinions of the profession, I offer it with much diffidence. As an instance of intelligent design, extending even to a pro- vision for the accidental lesions of the frame, few examples are more beautiful than that of the adhesive inflammation, and especially of the approach of foreign bodies to the surface by progressive absorption ; but nothing is detracted from the value of these facts by showing that mechanical causes are concerned in their operation.]