SIR E. home’s OBSERVATIONS ON 632 there bemg two women now alive, and residing in England, who are 1 CC 6 ffc 7 6 ?°mplfUat’ 1 sha11’ however» in the course of this Paper bring other evidence from the testimony of the most respectable authors who have considered this subject. The two following cases contain a very accurate and distinct history of the progress of the disease through its different stages, and make any further detail of the symptoms entirely unnecessary. Mrs. Lonsdale, a woman fifty-six years old, a native of Horncastle in Lincolnshire, fourteen years ago observed a moveable tumour on the left side of her head, about two inches above the upper arch of the left ear, which gradually increased in the course of four or five years to the size of a pullet’s egg, when it burst, and for a week continued to dis- charge a thick gritty fluid. In the centre of the tumour, after the fluid Was discharged, she perceived a small soft substance, of the size of a pea, and of a reddish colour on the top, which at that time she took for proud flesh It gradually increased in length and thickness, and con- tinued pliable for about three months, when it first began to put on a horny appearance. In two years and three months from its first forma- tion, made desperate by the increased violence of the pain, she attempted to tear it from her head, and with much difficulty, and many efforts, at ength broxe it in the middle, and afterwards tore the root from her head, leaving a considerable depression, which still remains in the part where it grew. Its length altogether is about five inches, and its cir- cumference at the two ends about one inch, but in the middle rather less It is curled like a ram’s horn contorted, and in colour much re- sembling isinglass. rom the lower edge of the depression another honi is now growing, of the same colour with the former, in length about three inches, and* nearly the thickness of a small goose quill; it is less contorted, and lies close upon the head. A third horn, situated about the upper part of the lambdoidal suture is much curved, above an inch in length, and more in circumference at its root: its direction is backwards, with some elevation from the head At this place two or three successive horns have been produced which she has constantly tom away ; but, as fresh ones have speedily followed she leaves the present one unmolested, in hopes of its dropping off. Besides these horny excrescences, there are two tumours, each the size of a large cockle; one upon the upper part, the other about the middle of the left side of the head ; both of them admit of considerable motion, and seem to contain fluids of unequal consistence, the upper one affording an obscure fluctuation, the other a very evident one. The four horns were all preceded by the same kind of incysted tu-