87 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. ■ iave the name of airs, such as fixed air, inflammable air, etc., render it dark. This change is peculiar to the living body, for if arterial blood S'.s taken away, it retains its florid colour, although not in the least ex- posed to the air\ As it is found dark in the veins, and as it performs S-some offices in the course of the circulation which perhaps render it i unfit for the purposes of life, we may conceive that the loss of colour and this unfitness are effects of the same cause; but, upon further ob- servations on this fluid, it will be found that it may be rendered unfit ifor the purposes of life without losing its colour, and may lose its colour without being rendered unfit for life0: slowness of motion in the blood of the veins is one circumstance that causes the alteration ; but this alone wwill not produce the effect, for I have observed above, that arterial blood ;put into a phial, and allowed to stand quiet, does not become dark ; but rest, or slowness of motion in living parts, would appear, from many observations, to be a cause of this change in its colour. We know that the blood begins to move more and more slowly in the arteries; we sknow that its motion in the veins is slow' in comparison to what it is in : the arteries; we should therefore naturally suppose (considering this alone,) that it was the slowness of the motion that was the immediate cause. Rest or slowness of motion, in living and probably healthy i parts, certainly allows the blood to change its colour; thus, we never see extravasations of blood but they are always dark. I never saw a person die of an apoplexy, from extravasation in the brain, but the extravasated 1 blood was dark; even in aneurism it becomes dark in the aneurismal sac; also when the blood escapes out of the artery, and coagulates in the cellular membrane, we find the same appearance. These observations respecting apoplexy struck me much. I conceived * [Arterial blood is rendered dark by being placed in the vacuum of an air pump. There appears, therefore, no good reason for believing that any of the effects, relating to change of colour, which take place in the lungs, are peculiar to the living body.] b [Bichat’s opinion respecting the deleterious effects of venous blood, has been already briefly adverted to. Dr. Kay, however, found that when venous blood was injected in small quantities into the arteries it did not destroy life, or manifest any directly poison- ous effects. Hybernating animals continue to circulate black blood during the period of their torpidity, with the effect of rather increasing their muscular irritability. (Hall in Phil. Trans. 1832.) Mr. Owen found that in the kangaroo the ovum did not connect itself with the mother, or the chorion put forth any villi until the period of gestation had two thirds elapsed, although the foetus continued to grow during this time without respiration, or any office vicarious of it. (Phil. Trans. 1834.) In cholera, the blood in the arteries is perfectly black, and yet the functions of the brain remain perfect to the last, although undoubtedly the animal and vital functions are much enfeebled. Besides which, many other facts are mentioned in the present treatise which clearly require some modification of Bichat’s doctrine, in order to explain all the phenomena which relate to this subject.]