34 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. of that kind; for I have reason to believe that blood has the power of action within itself, according to the stimulus of necessity, which ne- cessity arises out of its situation. I shall now consider the simple act of coagulation, abstracted from causes. Coagulation I conceive to be an operation of life; and I imagine it to proceed exactly upon the same principle as the union by the first inten- tion ; it is particle uniting with particle, by the attraction of cohesion, which, in the blood, forms a solid; and it is this coagulum, uniting with the surrounding parts, which forms the union by the first intention; for union by the first intention is no more than the living parts when separated, whether naturally or by art, forming a reciprocal attraction of cohesion with the intermediate coagulum, which immediately admits of mutual intercourse, and, as it were, one interest. To produce coagulation of the blood, however, something more is re- quired than merely the reverse of the causes above mentioned, as having the power to keep it fluid; for the blood becomes in many cases in- stantaneously incapable of coagulation, either in or out of the vessels, even when nothing has been added or taken away, and must be there- fore under the influence of some other cause. This, I believe, must be sought in some property inherent in the blood itself: besides, some na- tural operations destroy this principle in the blood when extravasated. In many modes of destroying life the blood is deprived of its power of coagulation, as happens in sudden death produced by many kinds of fits, by anger, electricity, or lightning®; or by a blow on the stomach, &c. In these cases we find the blood, after death, not only in as fluid a state as in the living vessels, but it does not even coagulate when taken out of them. As in the bodies of such persons no action of life takes place, the muscles do not contract. There are partial influences likewise which destroy the power of coagulation, as a blow on a part producing a considerable extravasation. This forms an ecchymosis, in which we shall often find the blood not in the least coagulated. In healthy menstruation the blood which is discharged does not coagulate ; n [Although this statement has been impugned by Sir C. Scudamore (op. tit., p. 54.), yet general testimony has evinced the accuracy of Mr. Hunter's observation. Scudamore found that the blood coagulated as usual in animals which had been killed by the dis- charge of an electric battery. It is worthy of remark, that electricity and galvanism rather accelerate coagulation out of the body, and also occasion a sensible elevation of temperature. Mayo has observed, that when any accidental extravasation happens in a person that has been hanged, the blood speedily coagulates (Physiology, 3rd edit p. 26); but Thackrah has carried the observation still further, and affirmed that such is generally the case in all instances of violent death. (Op. cii., p. 168.)]