OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 217 This probably arises from the muscular coat opposing the dilatation of the arteries, while it cannot the lengthening. The dilatation of the ar- tery producing the stroke is either felt by the finger or may be seen, when superficial; but were we to judge of the real increase of the ar- tery by this we should deceive ourselves, for when covered by the inte- guments the apparent effect is much greater than it really is in the artery itself: for in laying such an artery bare, the nearer we come to it the less visible is its pulsation, and when laid bare its motion is hardly to be either felt or seen. The more an artery is covered, especially with solid bodies, the more is the pulsation to be felt or seen; thus tumours over large arteries have a considerable motion given to them, and have often been supposed to be aneurisms. The knowledge of this fact, arising more from experi- ment than common observation in the living body, may be a sufficient reason for keeping to the old expression, dilatation. This circumstance, which has been but little taken notice of, produces an effect which has also been unobserved. If the arteries had been dilated by the force of the blood’s motion, as has been supposed, its motion should be much less retarded than it is ; for even supposing that the increased area of the artery is the same when elongated as if dilated, and therefore holds an equal quantity to a dilated one, it must appear evident that the blood will not arrive so quickly at the opposite enda. much in the same manner as sound, so that we may discover the working of a water- pump at u great distance merely through the pipes, whether iron or leathern, by which it is connected. Others have ascribed the pulse to the forward rush, without tumefaction, which takes place when an additional quantity of blood is injected into elastic vessels. It may be observed, however, that any elastic vessel, as, for instance, au intestine, perfectly full of fluid is capable, on being gently tapped with the finger, of communicating a rapid and distinct pulse to a great distance, although no forward rush can take place, but only a gentle undulation. Dr. Parry, however, has justly observed, that the impression of the pulse may be rendered much more obvious by slightly pressing on the artery thus 8 ^ 0, so as to indent it, by which means the finger becomes directly opposed to the current of blood. We occasionally hear of instances in which the pulse is said to vary, as well in its rhythm as in the number of its beats, in different parts of the body ; but probably all such cases are resolvable into some irregularity of the heart’s action: as when, for in- stance, it is partly intermittent, so as to give first a perfect and then an imperfect stroke —the perfect stroke only being sufficient to communicate the pulse to the extreme parts, although both may have this effect on those which are in the immediate vicinity of the heart. It is difficult, if not impossible, to assign specific causes for the numerous vari- ations of the pulse which take place in disease. The sphygmometer, lately invented by M. Herisson, is perfectly inefficient, and is not deserving of the least confidence.] * [Sir C. Bell, in his “Essay on the Forces which circulate the Jflood," has endeavoured, by an ingenious train of reasoning, to prove the reverse of this position ; for, observing