THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 330 the first is a dilatation of the vessels, whereby a greater quantity of blood is allowed to pass into those vessels which only admitted serum or lymph before*. The second is owing probably to new vessels being set up in the extravasated uniting coagulating lymph. This colour is gradu- ally lost in the surrounding parts if the inflammation is of the healthy kind, but in many others it has a determined edge, as in the true ery- sipelatous, and in some specific diseases, as in the smallpox, where its quick termination is a sign of health. [Swelling.']-*—From the account I have given of the immediate effects of inflammation of the cellular membrane (in which I include the larger cavities), the volume of the part inflamed must be increased. This, when a common consequence of inflammation, is not circumscribed, but rather diffused. As the inflammation, however, begins in a circum- scribed part (which is at least the case with that arising from violence), the inflammation, as I just now observed, is always the greatest nearest to that point, and is gradually lost in the surrounding parts, the swell- ing of course being the greatest at or nearest to this point, and it is also lost in the surrounding sound parts. This takes place, more or less, ac- cording to the constitution, or the situation of the inflammation; for if the constitution be strong and healthy, the surrounding parts will sym- pathize less with the point of irritation, so that inflammation and its consequences, viz. extravasation, will be less diffused. There will be less of the serum, and of course a purer coagulating lymph, so that the swelled parts will be firmer; but in some specific diseases or dissimilar parts, as a gland, it has a more determined edge, the surrounding parts not so readily taking on specific diseased action as in other cases. In this both the colour and swelling correspond very much, since they both depend on the same principle. This increase of volume is owing to the extravasation of the coagu- lating lymph and some serum. In proportion to the inflammation (the degree of which depends on the causes above mentioned,) this effect is more or less, and therefore is greatest at the point of inflammation, be- coming less and less as it extends into the surrounding parts, till it is insensibly lost in them. The extravasation of the serum along with the coagulating lymph is, probably, not a separation of itself, as in a dropsy, but a part of it being separated from the lymph in the coagulation of that fluid, is squeezed into the surrounding cellular membrane, where there is but little extra- * The tunica conjunctiva of the eye when inflamed is a striking instance of this; but the visible progress of inflammation I have already described in the experiment on the dog, p. 27‘J.