355 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. fore; but as the constitution becomes affected, the blood also becomes affected, and undergoes the same changes, which probably may be ascribed to contiguous sympathy between the vessels and the blood; and we shall find that the changes in the blood are often as much ex- pressive of disease as any other part of the body. It is expressive of ■ strong action as well as of weak action ; but as it does not give sensation it cannot convey to the mind all the varieties of disease that may take j] place in it; yet I could conceive, if the blood was to be primarily affected, : that an impression would be made upon the mind, from its affecting the 'vessels in which it moved. However, it is not always the case that the s state of the blood and the other symptoms are expressive exactly of the : same thing; the blood often expressing less, and often more. When the action of the solids is of the inflammatory kind, or, which perhaps is the same thing, when there is too great an action of the solids, the blood more readily admits of a separation of its visible parts, and the co- agulating lympli coagulates more slowly, but becomes firmer when co- agulated. This last circumstance, however, might be supposed not to be so clear, for its firmness may be owing to its want of the red par- ticles, which certainly give the blood a brittleness in proportion to their quantity; but although this may have some effect, yet it is very little, for we find blood of loose texture in some inflammations when deprived of its red part. When blood has this disposition it is called sizy blood. These changes in the nature of the blood depend so much upon the ! above-mentioned causes of inflammation, that it is impossible to say whether they do not constitute the first universal effect produced from • the local inflammation, and whether the constitutional is an effect of this change in the blood. I knew a man who was stabbed in the loins, ■ and, according to the consequent symptoms, was most probably wounded or hurt in some viscus within the abdomen. At first he had no symptoms, but simple pain in the part; I therefore only bled him, by way of pre- caution, and the blood was perfectly natural; in less than a quarter of an hour after, constitutional symptoms came on, such as rigor, sickness. See., and on opening the same orifice, and taking away more blood, this -second quantity had a very thick and strong buff upon it, having all the appearance of inflammatory blood. While this constitutional disposi- tion lasted, which was some time, his blood continued the same, which was proved by the subsequent bleedings. The subsiding, however, iaf the red globules in the blood when in an inflamed state, although pretty frequent, is not always an attendant, or, in other words (and perhaps upon some other principle), the blood is not always attended with this appearance, when the visible symptoms are the same. A young woman was attacked with a violent cough, oppression in breathing, quick, 2 a “2