THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 38G application in all scrofulous cases; in such cases the parts should be strengthened without producing action. Warmth, more especially when joined with moisture, called fomenta- tion, is commonly had recourse to, but I am certain that warmth, when as much as the sensitive principle can bear, excites action; but whether it is the action of inflammation, or the action of the contraction of the vessels, I cannot determine. We see that in many cases they cannot hear it, and therefore it might be supposed to increase the action of dila- tation, and do hurt; but if that pain arises from the contraction of the inflamed vessels, then it is doing good; hut this I doubt, because 1 rather conceive the action of contraction would give ease. Acids have certainly a sedative power, as also alcohol, and I believe many of the neutral salts. I believe it is not known that we have the power of adding strength to a part by local applications: that in general, I believe, must arise from the constitution ; for although we have the power of giving action, yet tills does not imply strength. Many local applications are recommended to us, respecting many of which I have my doubts. The mode of cure by an irritation different from the disease appears to increase the disease; but by destroying the first mode of action it produces another disease, viz. one according to the mode of irritation of the application, and which more easily admits of a cure than the first. I believe, however, that this takes place principally in specific diseases, and not so readily in common inflammation; for a common inflamma- tion most probably w'ould be increased by it. I have known specific inflammations much more easily cured by their specific medicine than the common inflammation of the same constitution, viz. I have seen a gonorrhoea and a chancre cured much more easily in some constitutions than an inflammation from an accident, and oftener than once or twice in the same person. However, this mode will not do in all specific dis- eases, for the scrofula will not change its nature by it, nor will the irri- table, although specific. The venereal gonorrhoea (if parts are very ir- ritable) is an instance of this, for irritating injections increase it; still we have many cutaneous inflammations cured in this way, for a pretty strong solution of corrosive sublimate will remove an inflammation of the skin. The ungucntum citrinum, mixed with any common ointment, cures many inflammations of the eyelids ; yet I believe that artificial irritations are similar to one another, and I do not know if there be any difference between them, although I can conceive one may agree better with some constitutions than others. However, these local or imme- diate applications can only be such as come in contact with the disease,