OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 173 extravasation takes place in the smaller vessels. This can only be proved by subtle injections, which do not become solid by cold, such injections keeping up an equal pressure throughout the arterial system. In such cases the smaller arteries are found to give way first, viz. those of the muscles, pia-mater, and the cellular membrane ; which contradicts Hal- ler’s theory of the relative strength of the coats of the vessels. I am however inclined to suppose that they are even weaker in pro- portion to their size, viz. in proportion to the diminished force of the heart, or motion of the blood; but how far this is the case I will not venture to determine, as mechanical strength is not so much wanted in the smaller arteries as muscular; and as the mechanical strength of muscles appears to be less than the power of their own contraction, ex- periments made on the dead body upon parts whose uses arise from an action within themselves when active, are not conclusive. The flexor policis longus, being one of the most detached muscles in the body re- specting structure and use, has been selected for experiments on this subject, and is found to raise by its action a greater weight than it can sustain after death. This, however, is liable to fallacy, as the two ex- periments are made on different muscles, one certainly healthy, the other most probably weakened by the disease preceding death. The coats of arteries are not equally strong on all sides of the same artery; at the bending of a joint they are strongest on the convex side through the whole length of the curve; this is most evident in the per- manent curves, such as in the great curvature of the aorta. Arteries are likewise strongest at the sharp angles made by a trunk and its branch, and at the angle formed by a trunk divided into two. These parts have the blood, as it were, dashing against them. Those likewise are the parts which first lose their elasticity and soonest ossify, being generally more stretched than the other parts of an artery, and making a kind of bag. These circumstances are chiefly observable in the cur- vature of the aorta and of the internal carotids, and at the division of the aorta into the two iliacs. §.5. Of the Heart. The heart is an organ which is the great agent in the motion of the blood; but it is not essential to animals of every class, nor for the mo- tion of the blood in every part where it is perfect; it is less so than the nerves, and many even possess the organs of generation, that have no heart. Its actions in health are regular, and characteristic of that state ; and in disease its actions are in some degree characteristic of the dis-