66 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. globules dissolve in it. However, after standing some days the globules dissolve both in serum and urine; but I think later in the last. When the globules are not dissolved in any fluid the whole looks muddy, not transparent; but when dissolved in wTater the whole is a fine clear red. What are the properties of the serum, and those other substances that preserve the red part of the blood in a regular form, I do not know®. The red globules, when dried in the serum, and moistened in the same, do not again resume their regular form; nor do they dissolve in it, as they do in water, but form rather a sort of flakes. As the serum and solutions of many kind of salts do not dissolve the red globules, 1 conceived that it might be possible for them to resume their globular figure (after having been dissolved in water,) by adding such a quantity of serum as to make the proportion of water very little; but I could not produce this effect, although the menstruum was such as not to dissolve fresh globules. The red globules not dissolving in the serum, nor in the coagulating lymph, become separable from those parts when circulating, and there- fore may be prevented from going where the coagulating lymph passes in a natural state, which they certainly do not*, and which also is the reason why they are so perfectly retained in the coagulum when extra- vasated. The globules, besides being heavier than the serum, and the coagulating lymph, appear to have more substance; for they do not lose so much upon drying, and when dried with serum they give a kind of roughness to the surface, w'hich serum has not by itself. They appear not to be a natural part of the blood, but, as it were, composed out of it, or composed in it, and not with it; for they seem to be formed later in life than either of the other two; thus we see, while the chick is in the egg, and the heart beating, it then contains a transparent fluid be- fore any red globules are formed, which we may suppose to be the se- rum, and the lymph. The globules do not appear to be formed in those parts of the blood already produced, but rather to rise up in the sur- * This will be more fully explained when on the colour of parts from the blood. * [Many circumstances induce the belief, that the cohesion of the colouring matter of the globules to their central fibrinous nuclei is a manifestation of vitality. In ady- namic fevers, in cases of death from poisoning, and under many other circumstances, this cohesion is destroyed, in consequence of which the colouring matter of the blood transudes through the coats of the veins, or else exudes into the serous cavities. Under such circumstances also, the blood, when abstracted from the body, instead of coagu- lating, is apt to let fall a pulverulent deposit, and to pass rapidly into a state of putre- faction. I have already observed that the catamenial fluid is devoid of red globules, and consists merely of a solution oi colouring matter.)