FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 295 §. 6. Of Inflammation—its Stages. I have given the most simple idea I can form of an injury done to a part, with the natural, immediate, and consequent means of restoration. I have also treated of cases where they become a little more complicated, requiring the aid of art as a substitute for the simplicity of the first. The action of the parts is not necessary in either of these, except that of the blood forming its vessels and other solid parts, and becoming of the nature of the parts in which it is extravasated. But I took notice, [1.] that the violence done was often so great, or that restoration did not take place so readily, as in all cases to exclude irritation ; we had, there • fore, an action in such cases taking place in the parts called inflamma- tion ; and [2.] that this action assisted in the restoration by producing an extravasation of the coagulating lymph, which became the second bond of union. I have also stated what may be called the natural tendency to inflammation, to serve as a kind of leading principle. We shall find that inflammation may arise from very different causes, and often without any apparent cause, and that its operations are far more extensive than simply the act of producing union in parts divided by violence; for it more commonly produces union in whole parts or in natural separations, such as the common cellular membrane, large cir- cumscribed cavities, joints, etc., because such surfaces are not naturally disposed to unite, but only in consequence of some uncommon action being produced; and although these adhesions are unnatural, yet that tendency of the parts to admit of this union becomes a species of cure. It is in consequence of the parts taking on, in some degree, the same modfe of action which divided parts do when brought in contact, that in such cases suppuration is precluded. As inflammation often arises from disease, its salutary purposes are in many instances not so evident, although they may finally take effect; as it .likewise takes place in disease, or becomes the ultimate in disease where it did not begin in it, as in the scrofula, cancer, &c. and some indo- lent tumours; on these accounts too its salutary purposes are sometimes not obvious. However, upon the whole, as inflammation is an action live process, and pertinaciously resisting its further progress; or should these equally g’ne via; to the ulcerative action, still the peritoneal covering (not so thick, perhaps, as a piece of common writing-paper,) is interposed, to arrest its further progress, and pre- vent the fecal contents escaping into the peritoneal cavity. The same fact is also ob- servable in superficial ulcerations of the skin, in abscesses of the lungs, brain, &c. It is very unusual to find the dura mater or pleura perforated in such eases.]