INTRODUCTION. 4 diseases in the same part, at the same time. There are many local dis- eases which have dispositions totally different, but, having very similar appearances, have been supposed by some to be one sort of disease, by others to be a different kind, and by others again a compound of two diseases. Thus, the venereal disease, when it attacks the skin, is very similar to those diseases which are vulgarly called scorbutic, and vice versd. These, therefore, are often supposed to be mixed, and to exist in the same part. Thus we hear of a pocky-scurvy, a pocky-itch, rheu- matic-gout, &c. &c., which names, according to my principle, imply a union that cannot possibly exist. It has been considered as contradictory to this opinion that a patient might have the scrofula, scurvy, venereal disease, smallpox, &c. at the same time. All of this is indeed possible ; but then no two of them can exist in the same part of the body at the same time : but before one of them can occupy the place of another, that other must be first destroyed, or it may be superseded for a time, and may afterwards return. When a constitution is susceptible of any one disease, this does not hinder it from being also susceptible of others. I can conceive it pos- sible that a man may be very susceptible of every disease incident to the human body, although it is not probable; for I should believe that one susceptibility is in some degree incompatible with another, in a man- ner similar to the incompatibility between different actions, though not of so strict a kind. A man may have the lues and the smallpox at the same time; that is, parts of his body may be contaminated by the venereal poison, the smallpox may at the same time take place, and both diseases may appear together, but still not in the same part. In two eruptive diseases, where both are necessarily the consequence of fever, and where both naturally appear after the fever nearly at the same distance of time, it would be impossible for the two to have their respective eruptions, even in different parts, because it is impossible that the two preceding fevers should be co-existent. From this principle I think I may fairly put the following queries: Do not the failure of inoculation, and the power of resisting many in- fections, arise from the existence of some other disease at that time in the body, which is therefore incapable of another action ? Does not the great difference in the time, from the application of the cause to the appearance of the disease, in many cases, depend upon the same principle ? For instance, a person is inoculated, and the puncture does not inflame for fourteen days, cases of which I have seen. Is not this deviation from the natural progress of the disease to be attributed to another disease in the constitution at the time of inoculation ?