440 OF PUS. dressings to the sore, which is assisted afterwards by the coagulating lymph thrown out in the adhesive stage ; the whole, viz. dressings, blood, and coagulating lymph, are generally thrown off together, when suppu- ration commences on these surfaces. This is the process which takes place in the first formation of an abscess, and the first process towards suppuration in a fresh wound. Upon the internal surfaces of the canals the parts do not go through all those steps; they would appear to run into suppuration almost in- stantaneously ; however, inflammation even here is a kind of forerunner of suppuration, Phis discharge from internal canals has never been reckoned true matter; it has been called mucus, etc., but it has all the characters of true pus which I am yet acquainted with. Pus is not to be found in the blood similar to that [viz. the coagula- ble lymph] which was produced in the first stage, but is formed from some change, decomposition, or separation of the blood which that un- dergoes in its passage out of the vessels, and for effecting which the vessels of the parts have been formed, which produces a subsiding of the inflammation from which it took its disposition; hence it must appear that the formation of pus consists of something more than a straining of juices from the blood. Many substances indeed which are to be con- sidered as extraneous bodies in the blood, being only mixed with, and not making an essential part of that fluid, and perhaps even [some that are] necessary to it, may pass off with the pus, as with every other se- cretion, yet the pus is not to be considered on that account as simply parts of the blood unchanged ; but we must look upon it as a new com- bination of the blood itself, and must be convinced that in order to carry on the decompositions and combinations necessary for producing this effect, either a new or peculiar structure of vessels must be formed, or a new disposition, and of course a new mode of action of the old must take place. This new structure or disposition of vessels I shall call glandular, and the effect, or pus, a secretion. §. 1. Of the general Opinion of the Formation of Pus. The dissolution of the living solids of an animal body into pus, aud that the pus already formed has the power of continuing the dissolution, is an old opinion, and is still the opinion of many, for their language is “ Pus corrodes, it is acrid, etc.” If this idea of theirs was just, no sore which discharges matter could be exempted from a continual dissolution ; and I think it must appear inconsistent, that the matter which was pro- bably intended for salutary purposes should be a means of destroying