600 ON THE CURE CF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. teenth some of the ligatures came away, followed by a small discharge o matter, the tumour in the ham being lessened. On the seventeenth day the parts surrounding the aneurismal tumour were more reduced and pliable, so that it was distinctly to be felt. About the latter end of January 1786, six weeks after the operation, the patient went out of the hospital, the tumour at that time being somewhat lessened, and rather firmer to the feel. He was ordered to come to the hospital once every week, and, in the mean time, to make some degree of pressure, by application of a compress and bandage, with a view to excite the absorbents to action, which in most cases has a good effect. ° About the middle of February' the tumour had decreased, and was become still firmer. March the 8th the wound, which had cicatrized, broke out again, and the patient was taken into the hospital. About the 8th of April some of the remaining thread of the ligature came away, and an inflammation appeared upon the upper part of the thigh. In the middle of May a small abscess broke at some distance from the old ci- catrix, at which opening some matter was discharged, but no pieces of ligature were observed. Several small threads were, at different times, discharged from the old sore, and the swelling subsided; but the thigh soon swelled again to a greater size than before, attended with consider- able pain. In the beginning of July, a piece of ligature, about one inch in length, came away, after which the swelling went off entirely, and he left the hospital the 8th of July, at which time there remained no ap- pearnnce of tumour in the ham, he being in every respect well. After leaving the hospital the man returned to his usual occupation of driving a hackney coach, and being, from tbe nature of his employ- ment, much exposed to cold, in March 1787 he was seized with a fever of the remittent kind, which carried him off. He had not made any complaint of the limb on which the operation had been performed from fhe time of his leaving the hospital. lie died on the 1st of April, 1787, fifteen months after the operation, /nd leave was procured, with some trouble and considerable expense, to examine tbe limb seven days after death, at which time it was en- tirely free from putrefaction. The cicatiix on the anterior part of the thigh was scarcely discernible, but the pai ts under it felt hard. The ham had no appearance of tumour, and was to the eye exactly like that of the other limb ; there was, how- ever, a solid tumour perceptible to the touch, filling up the hollow be- tween the two angles of the thigh-bone. The femoral artery and vein were taken out above the giving off the