58 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. it to be the least important; for it is not a universal ingredient in the blood of animals, like the coagulating lymph and serum, neither is it to be found in every part of those animals which have it in the general mass of their blood*. The blood, as I have already observed, in those animals we are most acquainted with appears to the naked eye to be a red mass of fluid, having a part which coagulates upon being extravasated. The red part, however, may be washed out of this coagulum, so as to leave it white ; and this shows that the blood is not wholly red, but only has a red matter diffused through its other component parts*'. * The blood of the insect tribe of every kind is free from any red parts, as is pro- bably that of most animals below them ; yet it has been asserted and supposed that their blood contains globules, although not red. I have examined the blood of the silk- worm, lobster, &c., and with considerable magnifying powers, but never could discover anything but a uniform transparent mass*. * [See Professor Grant’s Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, as reported in the Lancet, 1833-4, vol.ii. p. SGSetseq., where the existence of globules in the blood of insects is assumed as an indisputable fact. See also Bowcrbank in Entom. Mag., i. 239, who not only admits their existence, but affirms that they lose their peculiar elliptical form, and acquire the form of those of Mammalia when they are deprived of their external envelopes.] b [The red colouring matter, or hatmatosine, of the blood in the higher animals is not diffused through the whole mass, as in the class Anne tides, but belongs exclusively to its globular particles, constituting the external or investing tunic of their fibrinous nuclei. This matter, when separated from the other parts of the blood and dried, is a tasteless inodorous substance, red by transmitted and dark garnet-coloured by reflected light, very soluble in water, and capable of being preserved a great length of time without undergoing any change from the putrefactive process. Dissolved in 50 parts of water it begins to coagulate at a temperature of 149", and is precipitated in the form of insoluble brown flocculi. Prevost and Dumas have attempted to show that the colouring matter is not really dissolved in the water, but exists in a state of extremely minute division; so that though the fragments are sufficiently small to pass through a filter, they are yet plainly discernible through the microscope. I have already observed that hannatosine is now generally regarded as a modification of the albuminous principle. According to Berzelius it contains about '625 per cent, of iron, in some peculiar state of combination, which may be rendered manifest by the appropriate reagents for this metal, after deco- lorating the mixture by chlorine gas. The same authority states that 400 grains of colouring matter yielded on incineration five grains of ashes, which on accurate analysis were found to contain Oxide of iron 50 0 Subphosphate of iron 7‘5 Phosphate of lime with a small quantity of magnesia 6 0 Pure lime 20-0 Carbonic arid and loss 16'5 1000 (Med.-Chir. Trans., iii. 216; Engelhart in Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., Jan. 1827 ; and Rose in the Ann. de Chim. et de Pht/s., xxxiv. 268.) The exclusive presence of iron in this element of the blood, joined to the known ten- dency of the peroxide of this metal to form salts of a red colour, has generally induced