54 2 OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. branch; and if we observe the practice hitherto pursued, we shall find it very confined, being hardly reduced to the common rules of surgery, and therefore it was hardly necessary for a man to be a surgeon to prac- tise in the army. ยง. 1. The difference between Gun-shot Wounds and common Wounds. Gun-shot wounds are named, as is evident, from the manner in which they are produced ; from the frequency of their happening in the time of battle to a set of men appropriated for war, both by sea and land : and from the appointment of particular surgeons for their cure, they have been considered apart from other wounds, and are now become almost a distinct branch of surgery. Gun-shot wounds are made by the projection of hard obtuse bodies, the greatest number of which are musket-balls ; for cannon-balls, pieces of shells and stones from ramparts in sieges, or splinters of wood, etc., when on board of a ship in an engagement at sea, can hardly have their effects ranked among gun-shot wounds; thev will come in more pro- perly with wounds in general. As the wounds themselves made by those very different modes will in general differ very considerably, any peculiarity that may be necessary in the treatment of gun-shot wounds from those made by cannon-balls, shells, etc., or even common wounds, will generally belong to those made by musket-balls. The whole of gun-shot wounds will come within the definition of ac- cidents. They are a recent violence committed on the body, but they often become the cause of, or degenerate into, a thousand complaints which are the objects of surgery or physic, many of which are common to accidents in general, and to many other diseases. Of this kind are ab- scesses, ulcerating bones, and fistuke ; but some are peculiar to gun-shot wounds, as calculi in the bladder from the ball entering that viscus, con- sumption from wounds in the lungs, which I believe rarely happens ; for I cannot say I ever saw a case where such an effect took place. Hut it is the recent state in which they are distinguished, and in which they are to be considered as a distinct object of treatment. Wounds of this kind vary from one another, which will happen ac- cording to circumstances : these variations will be in general according to the kind of body projected, the velocity of the body, with the nature and peculiarities of the parts injured. The kind of body projected, I have observed, is principally musket-balls, sometimes cannon-balls.