OBSERVATIONS ON THE INFLAMMATION, ETC. 581 OBSERVATIONS ON THE INFLAMMATION OF THE INTERNAL COATS OF VEINS. Read February 6, 1784. [From the Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge, Vol. I. p. 18. I793.J *1 HE following observations will show that the inside of veins, as well as of all other cavities, is a seat of inflammation and abscess. I have found in all violent inflammations of the cellular membrane, whether spontaneous or in consequence of accident, as in compound fractures, or of surgical operation, as in the removal of an extremity, that the coats of the larger veins, passing through the inflamed part, become also con- siderably inflamed, and that their inner surfaces take on the adhesive, suppurative, and ulcerative inflammations ; for in such inflammations I have found in many places of the veins adhesion, in others matter, and in others ulceration. Under such circumstances the veins would have abscesses formed in them, if the matter did not find in many cases an easy passage to the heart along with the circulating blood, so as to pre- vent the accumulation of the pus ; but this ready passage of the matter into the common circulation does not always happen. It is in some cases prevented by the adhesive inflammation taking place in the vein between the place of suppuration and the heart, so that an abscess is formed, as will be further observed. Where the inflammation is most violent there we find the vein most inflamed, there also after suppuration we find the purest pus; and as we trace the vessels from this part, either farther from or nearer to the heart, we find the pus more and more mixed with blood, and having more of the coagulated parts of the blood in it. As these appearances are only to be seen in dead bodies, they cannot be described but from thence; but it is so common a case that I have hardly ever seen an instance of suppuration in any part furnished with large veins where these appearances were not evident after death. I have found them in the bodies of those who have died from amputations, compound fractures, and mortifications. I hese circumstances all considered lead us to account for a very fre- quent complaint, that is, an inflamed arm after bleeding : a complaint