512 EFFECTS OF INFLAMMATION, AND ITS to heal, no hectic disposition comes on, neither is the constitution at all affected. In diseased joints also, which are attended with inflammation, if the parts were capable of taking on a salutary inflammation, we should have only the first sympathetic fever; but as they seldom are capable of doing this, the constitution becomes teased with a complaint, not taking on the immediate and salutary steps towards a cure. In the venereal disease, too, where we know that the venereal matter has got into the constitution, and that the matter is producing its specific effects, no hectic comes on, till the constitution is harassed wTith an in- curable disease, and this not till long after all the parts are healed with regard to recent disease, and no matter is formed for further absorption. That absorption does take place in sores wre have reason to believe, and upon this fact a mode of dressing sores has been advised. The follow- ing is a remarkable instance of it in a bubo. A young man had a chancre and three buboes, one of which appeared when the other two were almost cured. This was very large, and at the bottom of the belly. When it had suppurated, and was pretty near breaking, it diminished very quickly, and in two or three days was en- tirely gone. While this was going on he observed that his urine was wheyish and thick while making it, which went entirely off when the bubo had subsided. Before the bubo began to subside he was rather mending in his health, which continued to mend; nor did the diminution of the bubo alter the state of his health. The hectic, from what has been said, appears in some measure to de- pend on the parts being stimulated to produce an effect which is beyond their powers ; that this stimulus is sooner or later in taking place in dif- ferent cases, and that the constitution becomes affected by it. The hectic disposition arises from diseased lungs, lumbar abscesses, white swellings, scrofulous joints, etc. ยง. 2. The Treatment of the Hectic. We have as yet, I am afraid, no cure for any of the consequences above related; I believe that depends on the cure of the cause, viz. the local complaint, or on its removal; the effects, I fear, are not to be cured. Strengthencrs, and what are called antiseptics, are recommended. Strengtheners are proposed on account of the debility which has taken place. Antiseptics have been employed from an idea that pus, when absorbed, gives the blood a tendency to putrefaction. To prevent both of these effects from taking place the same medicines are however re- commended. These are bark and wine. Bark will, in most cases, only assist in supporting a constitution. I should suppose it impossible to