608 ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. ings were not disturbed , he slept composedly; fainted again about six o’clock in the evening, and expired. I saw him at seven, when the limb was still w_arm; I removed the dressings, and found a small stream of fresh arterial blood, which had issued from the wound. “ 11 appears probable that if the patient had applied for relief before the tumour was so much enlarged, the operation might have succeeded, as we should then have been able to have tied the sound artery so much lower down. j Bihch.” The body was examined the morning after the patient’s death bv Mr. Cline. “ The integuments on the middle of the tumour were mortified. The blood contained in the tumour was very putrid, and the greater part of it fluid, it appearing to have been dissolved by putrefaction. ^ ater injected by the external iliac artery escaped freely from the wound at the ligature where the artery was open, which appeared to have ulcerated at that part. “ I'1 laying open the artery from the ligature to the heart, its internal surface appeared of a bright red. This appearance lessened at the cur- vature of the aorta, yet it was very evident in its semilunar valves. I he arteria profunda, which passed oft from the femoral artery' rather less than half an inch above the ligature, was also inflamed within. I here were near two inches of the femoral artery between the ligature and the aneurismal sac, the internal surface of which was of the usual white colour; from this a membranous-like substance could be peeled off-, that seemed to resemble oongulable lymph. " The opening where the artery' passed out of the aneurismal sac was near three inches below the part where it entered. In opening this part of the artery from the sac to the ham it appeared quite sound, and of its natural colour. H. Clink.” This mode of operating was adopted by Mr. Pott in a case of popli- teal aneurism in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, w'hich operation having been the object of medical attention for some time, I shall give a brief account of it, as 1 was present at the time it was performed. Mr. Pott began the operation by making an incision about five inches in length upon the posterior part of the thigh, through the common in- teguments, a little higher than the tumour, and in the direction of the thigh, between the two hamstrings ; he then dissected dowm to the ves- sels at the upper end of the incision, which being there deep seated, proved both tedious and difficult. Having come to the vessels, a double ligature wras passed, and the two portions tied separately, at nearly half