GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 129 till the seventh day. In these two experiments it would appear that the ; inflammatory blood preserved its sweetness longest; but, from a repe- Biologie, iv. 654.); but whatever effect is produced by the latter agent is probably due to the coagulation of the albuminous part of the serum interspersed in the meshes of the clot; the solidification of which may easily be supposed to occasion a sudden contraction of the whole mass. Tourdes, in his translation of Spallanzani, saw, or supposed he saw, a mass of blood agitated by an undulatory motion, analogous to the feeble oscillatory movements of a muscle j while Rosa has affirmed that the blood possesses an expansile and contractile property, by which it experiences alternate movements of dilatation and ■.■contraction, corresponding to the rhythm of the pulse, wherever it is removed from the Hiving vessels of the body (Lettere Philos.). These observations, however, have not been confirmed. Mr. Hunter says that the more the blood is alive, the more readily it obeys stimulants, in consequence of which it coagulates more rapidly in health than in inflam- mation, and in the arteries than in the veins : but there are numerous facts of a con- trary nature. (See notes, pp. 39, 42.) 8th. On the other hand, the opposite effects of sedatives have been adduced to prove the same point. Thus, it has been argued, that as opium, belladonna, and other narcotic extracts retard or prevent coagulation, or diminish the subsequent contractility of the clot, in the same manner and degree as these substances are known to affect the con- tractility of muscles, so it is probable that they both depend on the same cause. But the value of this argument is entirely destroyed, in my opinion, by the fact that the extracts •of cinchona, gentian, and sarsaparilla, and many other substances of an equally inert kind, affect the coagulation of the blood much more strongly than the narcotic extracts, while many of the most powerful sedatives, as the hydrocyanic acid, have no appreciable effect on this process. The premiss, in short, is incorrect which assumes that any such actual relation exists between the effects produced by different agents on the blood and muscular fibre as to justify one in concluding from one to the other in any case. The most obvious and characteristic example of this sort is probably that of common salt, which equally and powerfully prevents the contraction of the crassamentum, the coagulation of the blood, and the contraction of muscular fibre ; but as this agent has a similar effect in preventing the contraction of the coagulum of milk, even after the acescent fermenta- tion has commenced, it must be evident that such an effect can only proceed from a che- mical operation. It is impossible, as it appears to me, to account physiologically for the fact that the extracts of belladonna and opium have less effect in preventing the coagu- lation of the blood than the extracts of sarsaparilla and gentian, and the infusions of to- bacco and hydrocyanic acid than the infusions of tea or coffee. 9th. The coagulation of the blood has been already several times referred to, so that it will here only be necessary to advert to it again as a specific point of analogy. How- ever we may account for this phenomenon, it is impossible to overlook the strict paral- lelism which exists between it and the tonicity of muscles. In nineteen cases out of twenty, or ninety-nine out of the hundred, the same physiological causes which accele- rate, retard, or entirely destroy the coagulability of the blood, increase, diminish, or entirely destroy the irritability of muscles. Coagulation has been compared to the last act of life, corresponding to the convulsion of the muscles which takes places at the mo- ment of death, and also to union by the first intention. “Coagulation,” Mr. Hunter says, “ I conceive to be an operation of life j and I imagine it to proceed on exactly the same principle as the union by the first intention that is, particle unites to particle, because they are endued with the same living principle, and consequently have a sym- pathetic affection upon simple contact, so as to affect each other. The circumstances connected with coagulation formed the chief of Mr. Hunter’* VOL. III. K