GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. G4 are seen moving with different velocities in different parts, and taking retrograde or lateral motions, according as mechanical obstructions or those arising from contractions in the vessels may happen to retard or change their motion. They are heavier than the coagulating lymph, and of course heavier than the serum; which is known by their falling to the bottom of the cup when blood is taken out of a blood-vessel. This allows the coagu- lating lymph to be seen more or less at the top, and produces on the surface various hues, according as the red globules subside. When they subside much, the buff is then of a yellowish colour ; when the buff is thin at the top, then we have the red globules shining through it, of various colours, such as blue, purple *,&c., according to the reflection or refraction, which is according to the depths. * The blood in the veins, when near the skin, gives the same hues. of inherent or self motion, by virtue of which they exhibit a variety of gyratory evolu- tions when placed on the surface of liquids. If, therefore, these observations of Brown are correct, the idea of an intestine vital motion in the globules of the blood must be abandoned; but as the Germans have attributed a variety of effects to this cause, it will be necessary to revert to this subject when speaking of the circulation of the blood. Majendie says that a uumber of globules are developed in the serum of the blood by the action of galvanism very similar to those of the blood (Phys., p. 234.) ; and a simi- lar result was experienced by Prevost and Dumas on applying galvanism to the white of an egg. (Ann. de Chim., xxiii. 53, and Bib. Univ., Juillet 1821.) Raspail regards the globules not as organized particles, but as particles of albumen undissolved in, or precipitated from, the serum, and has attempted to show that albumen, dissolved in an excess of hydrochloric acid, forms minute spherical and equal globules, scarcely distin- guishable from the globules of the blood. “ If a portion of the albumen of a pullet’s egg,” he says, “be placed in an excess of hydrochloric acid, it will at first form a while coagulant, but presently it will be dissolved by the acid acquiring at the same time a violet colour, which passes into blue. If the hydrochloric acid be then poured off, and left to evaporate spontaneously, it will deposit a white powder, which, when ob- served by the microscope, will be seen to consist of spherical globules, of uniform size, and which the most practised eye might well mistake for the globules of the blood.” The same phenomenon is also noticed when lactic acid is saturated by barytes; “the precipitation in this case is composed of beautiful globules, some of which even show a nucleus in their centre.” (Org. Chem., transl. by Dr. Townsend, p. 406.) Dr. Elliotson observes, that “ one takes breath while reading M. Raspa'l, after the strange and vary- ing statements of so many experimenters, especially of those who use microscopes" (Physiology, p. 148.); but the justness of this eulogium may I think be questioned. M. Raspail has entirely failed to account, 1st, for the colouring matter of the red glo- bules ; 2nd, for their precipitation; 3rd, for the difficulty with which they are regene- rated, although the regeneration of the albumen is easily effected; 4th, for their im- portance in relation to the function of respiration, and the production of animal heat; 5th for their various forms and sizes in different animals, and their uniformity in these respects in the same animal; and 6th, for the presence of iron in one and not in the other.]