GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 133 xty, the crassamentum of which was also covered with an inflamma- ory crust. These quantities of blood were set by. The blood from ie old woman putrefied in two days. That from the young woman :ept quite sweet till the fifth day, when it began to smell disagreeably , 1 this state it continued two days more, and then emitted the common dour of putrid blood. Several experiments were made in the course of the summer, of a si- lilar nature with the last, in all which it appeared that the blood from oung people kept longer sweet than that which was taken from the Id. In October 1790, when the weather was cold, some blood was taken •om two men, one of whom was seventy-five years of age, and the other eighty-three, about six ounces from each. The blood from each kept weet till the fifth day ; but on the sixth both quantities smelt equally utrid, which uniformity accords with the preceding experiment. To see if recent blood or coagulated blood lost its heat soonest, four unces of blood, after coagulation, were heated till the mercury of a kiermometer, placed in the middle of the coagulum, was raised to the '8th degree. The thermometer was then put into a similar quantity of lood, immediately after it was taken from the vein, in which the mercury food at 90°. These were placed by each other, and the thermometer ut alternately into each, to observe how they parted with their heat. Coagulated Recent Blood. Blood. At the beginning of the experiment 98° 90° After two minutes 97 89 After four minutes more 93 88 After two minutes more 92 87 After two minutes more 91 86 This experiment was not accurately made, for the two bloods should >mph effused from a cut or inflamed surface is identically the same as lymph as it exists i the circulating blood. I shall only further observe, that the argument for the vitality of the blood is strictly cumulative one, and must be viewed in its totality in order to estimate its real force, aken altogether, the preceding facts raise at least a strong presumption in its favour, ot to say a high probability. It may seem inconsistent, after having rejected two of ie most material arguments (viz. those founded on coagulation and union by the first itention), that I should introduce them into the present argument; but it should be nnembered that these are the arguments employed by Hunter. The explanation of lese facts by Mr. Hunter is not demonstrated to be false, but only another explanation i offered, which appears to me to account more easily for the phenomena in question, t is a balance of probabilities, and therefore I conceive it perfe cilylegitimate to intro- uce the minor probability into the question, which will carr j weight in proportion as t is corroborated by other circumstances.]