270 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. quently are much longer in repair, either when diseased or injured by accident. We also find that different situations, of similar parts, give them advantages or disadvantages with regard to their powers of resto- ration. This is principally known from injuries being done to them, or in consequence of those injuries from the attack of a disease. It is also shown in the common actions of the body or parts, of which, in health, we have comparative trials. We never can know what a thing is incapable of doing till it gives way, which giving way is either a dis- ease, or that which is productive of disease: nor can we know the powers of restoration in the part till it is tried a. As a proof that parts cannot always be proportioned to the action or powers applied which have no action within themselves, but are only acted upon by external force, we adduce the instances of a broken pa- tella or broken tendo Achillis, or a thickening of the valves of the heart. In the first, however, there is commonly another power supcradded be- sides simply the actions of the parts, viz. the body falling and being stopped at once. In the valves of the aorta, however, and the valvula mitralis, we have the best examples, for they become thickened from « [The author’s meaning seems to he, that wheTC derangements of the animal (eco- nomy arise from injuries done by external bodies, or by the undue action of those parts on which depend the animal functions, as contradistinguished from the organic, that there we find the parts possess a power of repairing the injury, or at least show a dis- position to repair it, for they do not always succeed ; and this is certainly true. A blood- vessel may be ruptured in the lungs, or a bronchitis occasioned by too violent exertions of the voice; the eye may be inflamed by employing the organ too long on external objects, or the brain by too great mental exertion; and yet the innate resources of the ceconomy may be found sufficient to right the system under these evils, just in the same manner as if they had arisen from external violence: but let these same derangements proceed from the natural actions of parts performing the organic functions, and then they will be irremediable, for the very spring and source of all power in the system is then vitiated at its fountain-head. The above observations, however, must be taken with many limitations, for we arc seldom able to say what diseases arise from the natural actions of parts, independently external influences. In the instance adduced of thickening of the valves ot the heart, we know that certain external actions tend to produce this lesion; whilst, again, we cannot say that it is one necessarily arising after a time, and therefore natural; for we do not always find it in old people. Scrofula, rickets, fever, inflammation, &c. frequently arise spontaneously, and, as we presume, from some fault in the ordinary organic (unc- tions, and yet the resources of the system prove adequate for the cure, and often increase with the increasing exigencies of the case. In gout, as in many of the exanthemata, the very evil, or materies morbi, which oppresses the system, and which is, at the same time, the product of systemic derangement, becomes the stimulus by which the consti- tution is enabled to throw it off'. Morbid growths and degenerations of structure are probably the only cases really so situated as to be beyond the natural powers of re- covery ; and yet even here it sometimes happens that the parts get rid of the evil m another way, that is, by sloughing, as in cases of cancer.]