137 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OP THE BLOOD. Extraneous matter in the blood is capable of altering the chemical : properties of the solids in those who work in lead, as is evident in the : following case. Morgan, a house-painter, who had been paralytic in his hands and legs : for a considerable time, was thrown down, and had his thigh-bone broken just below the little trochanter. The upper end of the inferior portion i had passed over the outside of the other, and moved with the knee, so it that the end of the lower bone was taken for the great trochanter; but 111 discovered the fracture by extending the leg, and got the portions of bone in their places, and bound up the limb with a roller. It went on - well for nearly a fortnight, only his hands swelling at times, which gave way to fomentations: in the third wreek he grew very ill, became low, 1 had a kind of lethargy, a great deal of blood came out of his mouth, he ■ sunk still lower, and died about three weeks after the accident. On examining the body after death, the muscles, particularly those of ' the arms, had lost their natural colour; but instead of being ligamen- • tous and semitransparent, as happens in common paralysis, they were opake, resembling exactly in appearance parts steeped in a solution of Goulard’s extract. From this case it appears the lead had been evi- dently carried along with the blood, even into the muscles themselves \ 1 [Dr. Christison has shown not only that particular poisons physiologically affect particular structures, or, in the language of Hunter, “ take their different seats in the body as if they were allotted to them,” but that they have also a disposition to accumu- late substantially in particular organs. (On Poisons, p. 15, et passim.) It is doubtful, I think, whether Hunter was correct in supposing that the lead actually combines with the muscular fibre in the living body. In the dead body this certainly happens; that is, the oxide of the metal enters into direct combination with the animal fibre; but it is scarcely conceivable that this can happen in the living body. (Trans. Col. of Phys., i. 317.) With respect to the effect of various reagents on the blood, 1 have but little to say. Dr. Davy (Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., xx. 257.), Dr. Scudamore, Mr. Prater, and a number of other writers on the blood, have dwelt largely on this branch of the subject; but, as far as I understand the experiments which have been made, they do not seem to me to warrant any general conclusions respecting the physiology of this fluid. The ex- treme proneness of all organic bodies to undergo changes of constitution, and to assume new states of existence, in consequence of slight external causes, is an objection in limine to all such inquiries; but, in addition to these circumstances, the blood possesses a prin- ciple of life, so that it is neither possible to separate the physiological from the chemical effects, nor to arrange these effects upon any general principle derived from the nature of the agents employed. The most inert substances produce effects of the most marked kind, while bodies of the most destructive and virulent nature are almost totally in- operative. Some bodies, as the concentrated mineral acids, act from a purely chemical effect, decomposing and consolidating the blood, and entirely destroying its colour and contrac- tility; others, as many of the metallic oxides, induce coagulation, partly from a physio- logical, and partly from a chemical, effect,—precipitating and combining with the albu- men. The caustic alkalis dissolve the fibrin, and keep the blood permanently fluid;