GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. G8 derable quantity of its blood, the other parts seem to be sooner made up than the red globules ; the animal looks long pale ; but this is only con- jecture, for we have no method of knowing the quantity of the other parts. From the above account it appears that whatever may be their utility in the machine, the red globules certainly are not of such universal use as the coagulating lymph, since they are not to be found in all animals, nor so early in those that have them ; nor are they pushed into the ex- treme arteries, where we must suppose the coagulating lymph reaches; neither do they appear to be so readily formed. I'll is being the case, we must conclude them not to be the important part of the blood in contributing to growth, repair, etc. Their use would seem to be con- nected with strength, for the stronger the animal the more it has of the red globules ; and the strength acquired by exercise increases their pro- portion, not only in the whole body, but, as we shall find, occasions them to be carried into parts where, in either a quiet or debilitated state of the animal, they were not allowed to go; the use, therefore, of a part, and the quantity of red globules passing through it, are probably pretty well proportioned to each other. This effect is so well known to feeders of young animals for the table of the epicure, that bleeding, to lessen the quantity, is immediately practised; as also debarring the creature from exercise, in order to prevent their increasing, and being carried so far from the heart as they otherwise would be. These three substances are of different specific gravities : the serum, or fluid part, is the lightest; the solid part, or lymph, is the next in order ; and the red globules are the heaviest. This is seen in such blood pical observations of the blood of a dog whose spleen had been removed several months previously, Dr. Babington was unable to discover any deficiency of red particles, as compared with the blood of another dog in perfect health whose blood was examined at the same time. (Med.-Chir. Trans., xvi. 318.) The idea that they are formed in the mesenteric glands is rebutted, first, by tbe testimony of Leuret and Lassaigne, before mentioned ; and, secondly, by the fact that many of the lacteals enter the thoracic duct without passing through the glands, and yet contain as many globular particles as those that do. Upon the whole, therefore, I am induced to believe that rudimentary globules are formed during the earlier periods of digestion, and that these are afterwards per- fected in the system by means with which at present we are wholly unacquainted. This appears to me to accord better with the general law* of progressive development which characterizes the whole organic world, than to suppose that they are perfectly formed at once by any individual organ. We see a gradually ascending scale of animated beings, a progressive formation of the different parts of each individual organism during the different periods of its growth, and a successive elaboration of its various proximate principles before they are applied to their final purposes in the ceconomy. It seems, therefore, reasonable to suppose that the formation of the globules is governed by the same law.]