616 ON THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. He was ordered to take a bolus, containing three grains of camphor, every six hours. 10th. Had a bleeding from his nose, amounting to two ounces ; he was ordered to lose four ounces of blood from the arm ; the dose of cam- phor was increased to five grains; the pulse was 108 in a minute, and rpiick before the bleeding, but about twenty minutes afterwards the pulse was reduced to 96 in a minute, and he complained of faintness. 14th. The tourniquet was totally removed. 16th. He felt great pain upon touching the skin of any part of the limb, but particularly at the ham. 18th. Had a very good night, and the wound was superficial, and re- duced to the size of a sixpence : it was now exactly five weeks from the operation ; a circular bandage was still applied, and the sore dressed ■with ungt. hydrarg. nitrat. and hog’s lard in equal proportions; there still remained great sensibility in the skin. 26th. The pain in the limb was much abated; the leg had been fo- mented with tepid salt water for several days, which gave him a great deal of ease ; the wound was nearly healed, and the limb admitted of motion without uneasiness. September 18th. He was quite well. I he pulsation being felt in the aneurismal sac the evening after the fe- moral artery was tied, its continuance for several days, and then cea- sing altogether, are circumstances so curious, that it may be right to give some explanation of them. The only way in which the pulsation could recur in the tumour, after it had been stopped, must be by means of anastomosing branches ; and il the branch which renewed the communication had its origin near the ligature, it is probable that in the progress of the cure the femoral ar- tery became obliterated higher up than the origin of this branch, and shut it up. The extent of the artery rendered impervious above the ligature, in the first case operated upon by Mr. Hunter, in which there was an op- portunity of examining the parts after death, makes this more pro- bable. A case of aneurism of both popliteal arteries occurred to Mr. Joseph Harris, surgeon, at Whitehaven, in the year 1796, of which he has favoured me with the following account, as an addition to the facts in fuvour of Mr. Hunter’s mode of operating in cases of this disease. Case II. William Spencer, a corporal in the Cumberland militia, in the thirty-second year of his age, of a tall and muscular make, was ad- mitted a patient into the Whitehaven Hospital in June, 1795. He had a firm inelastic swelling, extending from the middle of the left thigh