550 OK THIS TREATMENT OF GUN SHOT WOUNDS. arm was extended horizontally when the ball entered, which accounts for this direction. These four men had not anything done to their wounds for four days after receiving them, as they had hid themselves in a farm house all that time after we had taken possession of the island; and when they were brought to the hospital their wounds were only dressed superficially, and they all got well. A grenadier of the 30th regiment was shot through the arm ; the ball seemed to pass between the biceps muscle and the bone; he was taken prisoner by the French. The arm swelled considerably, they fomented it freely, and a superficial dressing only was applied. About a fort- night after the accident he made his escape, and came to our hospital; but by that time the swelling had quite subsided, and the wounds healed ; there only remained a stiffness in the joint of the elbow, which went off by moving it. § 1. Of the propriety of diluting Gun-Shot Wounds. It would be absurd for any one to suppose that there is never occasion to dilate gun-shot wounds at all; but it is certain there are very few in which it is necessary®. It will be impossible to determine by any general description what those are that ought to be opened, and what those are that ought not; that must be left in a great measure to the dis- cretion of the surgeon, when once he is master of the arguments on both sides. Some general rules may be given with regard to the more simple cases; but with regard to the more complicated, the particular circumstances of each case are the only guide; and they must be treated according to the general principles of surgery. Let us first give an idea of the wound that would appear to receive no benefit from being dilated; and first of the most simple wounds. If a ball passes through a fleshy part where it can hurt no bone in its way, such as the thick of the thigh, I own, in such a simple wound, I see no reason for opening it; because I see no purpose that can be answered by it, except the shortening of the depth of the wound made by the ball, which can be productive of no benefit. If the ball does not pass through, and is not to be found, opening can be of as little service. ° [The practice of dilating gun-shot wounds was forcibly inculcated by Ambrose Pare and Wiseman, and afterwards, in 1792, by Baron Percy, who in his Manuel tie Chirur- gien d'Jrmie, says, “ The first indication of cure is to change the nature of the wound as nearly as possible into an incised one.” The judicious restriction of this practice to such cases as are pointed out in the concluding part of this section was fully borne out by the experience of our army surgeons during the late war.