345 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. feel or consciousness of weakness, in the whole constitution or a part, joined with a peculiar mode of action at the time. Thus we have many constitutional diseases beginning with absolute coldness, which seems afterwards to terminate in a sensitive coldness only, as the cold fit of an ague; for I apprehend that the sickness which generally precedes such complaints produces universal cold, and once having produced the action of the body arising from absolute cold, the action goes on for some time, although the cause no longer exists, which continues the sensation; and although the absolute coldness is gone, yet the action of the parts, which is a continuation of and therefore similar to the action of the ah- solute cold, is capable of destroying itself by producing the hot fit, if there be power or disposition. That weakness, or a feel of weakness, produces cold is evident, and that universal or constitutional cold arises from the stomach is also evi- dent ; for whenever we are made sick an universal coldness takes place; and this is best proved by producing sickness on aninuds that we cau kill, or that die while they are under these affections of the stomach. The experiments I made to ascertain this were not conducted with great accuracy, as I trusted in them entirely to my own sensations or feelings. Experiment I. I threw three grains of tartar emetic into the veins of a healthy bitch, the quantity of water near an ounce. In about twenty minutes she had a stool and voided some single tape-worms. Some of the stools were extremely thin, and made up principally of bile. Some time after she had two more stools, which were thin and bilious. She continued pretty easy for about three hours, but became a little con- vulsed, which increased, and at last she became senseless, with little twitchings; hardly breathing, except with the diaphragm, and having a low slow pulse. She was very cold to our feel, when applying our hand on the skin of the body. In about ten or twelve hours after the injection she died. Experiment II. I repeated the above experiment on another bitch, adding a full grain more to the medicine. She vomited in less than a minute after it was thrown in, and strained excessively hard, throwing up a great deal of froth, which was only the mucus of the stomach mixed up with the air in the act of retching. In less than three minutes she had a stool, which was pretty loose and partly of the natural appear- ance. She continued retching and purging for above an hour, and was extremely uneasy; at last she got into a dark corner and lay there, froth- ing at the mouth, was taken with convulsive twitchings like the former, and died in about five hours after the injection. I opened her body immediately after death, anti found the intestines, liver, and heart not so warm as we usually find them.