GENERAL PRINCIPLES OP THE BLOOD. 21 Whether the whole mass of the serum be a distinct part of the blood when circulating is not easily determined, as we have no mode of sepa- rating it from the coagulating lymph, while both are fluid. The serum making a part of the whole mass in the fluid state, the first stage in the coagulation is a species of decomposition, forming a separation of the serum. But, on the other hand, there are reasons for considering the coagulating lymph as distinct from the serum, even when both are fluid; since the serum can be separated from the lymph without coagulating, by many actions of the vessels, both natural, preternatural, or diseased. Thus the liquor of the amnios and that of dropsies are formed; and therefore we may conclude that the separation of the serum, when the lymph is coagulated, is not an act necessary to the coagulation, but an effect of ita. The circumstances attending the coagulation of the lymph are sub- Med. Liter.) I do not agree, however, in this opinion : first, because there is often a real separation of the coagulable lymph from the red globules previous to these losing their form, and before coagulation; and, secondly, because Professor Blumenbach was able, by the aid of a common microscope, to discover the red globules entangled in the translucent lymph, and retaining their perfect shape after coagulation. If any sepa- ration, such as has been supposed, took place of the colouring-matter from the central nuclei, the globules would not be apparent; but the whole would be obscured by a uniform solution of red colouring-matter. That the coagulation of the blood arises from the concretion or gelatinization of the fibrin alone is rendered evident by the fact that if fresh-drawn blood be briskly stirred by a wisp, so as to remove this principle from it, the residuary liquor will not coagu- 28 late. It may perhaps seem surprising that so small a proportion of fibrin as should be capable of giving so great a degree of solidity to the whole mass ; but in this rospect it is nearly equalled by the substance called gelatine, one part of which, dissolved in 100 parts of boiling water, concretes into a solid jelly on cooling.] * [Dr. B. G. Babington, in an admirable paper in the Medico-Chirurgical Trans- actions, vol. xvi. p. 301, has given unanswerable reasons for believing that the serum and coagulable lymph exist in the circulating blood as a homogeneous compound, and not merely in the form of mixture, as has generally been supposed. “ There is no better reason,” he says, “ for affirming that fibrin exists in a fluid state in liquor san- guinis [the term applied by him to this compound] than for affirming that muriatic acid exists in a solid state in muriate of ammonia. The salt indeed is solid of which the muriatic acid forms one ingredient, but the ammonia is essential to the solidity of the compound. In like manner, the compound is fluid of which fibrin forms one ingre- dient, but the serum is essential to its fluidity.” The compound nature of the liquor sanguinis is, I think, further shown from the fact that spirits of wine or turpentine does not immediately affect fresh-drawn blood, although they instantly coagulate the albumen of serum which has once separated from the clot. In answer to the particular objection urged by our author to this view of the subject, it may be replied: 1st, that there is as much reason for believing that the fluids of dropsy, &c. are secreted as there is that they arc simply exuded; for, 2nd, these fluids differ in composition from the ordinary serum of the blood; and 3rd, effusions of serum never take place without corresponding effusions of lymph, and vice versti. This latter point has been particularly discussed by Dr. Babington in the paper before cited.]