OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 230 actively contractile properties of the arteries themselves. Now the rate at which a wave of blood is propagated is estimated at sixteen feet in a second, so that the con- traction of the arterial system must he nearly instantaneous in all parts, although it must be apparent that the least deviation in this respect will be sufficient to give a ver- micular character to the motion, and consequently a direction to the current. It seems probable therefore that the arteries do actually cooperate with the heart in propelling the blood, although I am disposed to regard this effect rather as incidental than as one of the primary objects for which muscularity was introduced into the arterial structure. The primary objects seem to be, 1st, to enable the arteries to accommodate their capacity to the varying quantities of blood in the system ; 2nd, to modify the velo- city and quantity of blood sent to individual parts, without engaging the whole system in this act; and 3rd, to secure the temporary arrest of haemorrhage. 3. Adjacent muscular contraction can only operate on that portion of the blood which has already passed the principal bar of the capillary circulation. It must materially tend, however, to accelerate the blood during active exercise, although it has probably little effect on the ordinary circulation. The alternate action and relaxation of the abdominal muscles in ordinary respiration will be attended with a similar effect. 4. The pulsation of the arteries against the adjoining veins must ultimately be referred to the force of the heart. Inconsiderable as this agency may appear, it is certainly de- serving of being taken into account, for when we reflect on the force with which the foot is raised when one leg is laid in rest over the other, we may see how the same force, counteracted by the elastic tension of the skin, and thus brought to operate on the venous circulation, may have considerable effect; not to mention the fact that large arteries and veins are often bound together in a common sheath of fascia. 5. The pressure of the external air has been a good deal insisted on. A tendency to form a vacuum in the chest has been supposed to arise from four causes: 1, the active dilatation of the right auricle and ventricle; 2, the contraction of the ventricles; 3, the resiliency of the lungs ; and 4, the enlargement of the chest during inspiration. With- out, however, entering into the specific objections which may be urged against each of these views separately, I shall merely observe, in general, that the circulation goes on with quite as much celerity in the foetus in utero as in the adult; that it goes on in birds, tnrtles, cetacea, &c., in which the lungs are adherent to the chest, and in fishes in which there are no lungs at all; and finally, that it goes on in artificial respiration, when the heart and chest are fairly exposed, as well as in persons who voluntarily hold their breath. Nothing, indeed, can be conceived less adapted for the office of a pump than the whole aspect of the venous system, which would infallibly collapse if any con- siderable external pressure was exerted upon it. It is probable that the utmost suge- scent power of any of these causes, or all of them combined, in ordinary respiration is not sufficient to raise a column of blood of a single inch (Arnott, p. 512.); for although the force e tcrgo soon raises the tension of a vein on which a ligature has been placed nearly to the same degree as that of the arteries, yet the suction on the near side of the ligature is not sufficient to empty this portion of the vessel, provided it lies ever so little below the horizontal plane of the heart. Poiseuille, in his experiments, found, that even in the arteries the flow of blood was sometimes entirely arrested during forced inspiration, and accelerated in the same pro- portion during expiration (op. cit., viii. 2!)8.); effects which are still more visible in the great veins in the immediate vicinity of the chest, ns well as in those of the brain and spinal marrow, from these vessels, which are destitute of valves, allowing a regurgitation of blood: nothing, however, is gained to the circulation by this means, for one effect is exactly balanced by the other, the sugescent and repellent influences being exactly correspondent. 0. Gravity. The arch of the aorta rising several inches above the entrance of the vena