385 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. As inflammation has too much action, which action gives the idea of strength, such applications ns weaken have been recommended, and cold is one of them. Cold, according to its degrees, produces two very dif- ferent effects, one is the exciting of action without lessening the powers, the other is absolutely debilitating, while at the same time it excites action, if carried too far. In the first it becomes like suitable exercise to the vascular system, as bodily exercise is to the muscles, increasing- strength ; but when carried or continued beyond this point it lessens the powers, and becomes a weakener, calling up the action of resistance after the powers are lessened: therefore cold should not be indiscrimi- nately used, and should be well proportioned to the powers. Cold produces the action of contraction in the vessels, which is an action of weakness. A degree of cold suddenly applied, which hardly produces more than the sense of cold, excites action after the immedi- ate effect is over, which is the action of dilatation, and which is the effect of the cold bath when it agrees ; and as cold produces weakness in pro- portion to its degree, its application should not be carried too far, for then it produces a much -worse disease, viz. irritability, or over-action in respect to the strength of the parts, and then indolence too often commences. Cold might be supposed to act on an inflamed part simi- larly to its action on a frozen part, restraining action, keeping it within the strength of the part in the one case, so as not to allow death to take place from over-action, and in the other keeping it within bounds*. Lead is also supposed to have considerable effects in this way; but 1 believe much more is ascribed to it than it deserves. The property of lead appears to be that of lessening the powers and.not the action ; it therefore should never be used but when the powers arc too strong, and acting with too much violence. However, lead certainly has the power of producing the contraction of the vessels; and therefore, where there is great strength, lead is certainly a powerful application. Applications which can weaken should never be applied to an irri- table inflammation, especially if the irritability arises from weakness. I am certain I have seen lead increase such inflammations, particularly in many inflammations of. the eyes and eyelids, and I believe it is a bad * As cold can bo applied upon two very different principles, it is necessary to mcn- Uon which is here meant. When cold is applied cither within the powers of resistance of the part to excite heat, or only for so short a time as to give the stimulus of cold, then a reaction takes place, and warmth is the consequence! but if cold is applied be- yond the powers of resistance, then a contraction of the vessels takes place, and that contraction is in some degree permanent. But this must be done with caution ; for if continued too long it will produce debility, and action will be excited which will be irritable. In the present case the application of cold should only be sufficient to excite the contraction of the vessels, and that not continued loo long, for reasons above assigned vol. in. 2 c