362 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. a hollow or cup. His pulse became fuller, quicker, and harder; he was bled a second time; the blood vvas the same, and the above symptoms increased so much that 1 observed, immediately after the second bleed- ing, Ins pulse was quicker, harder, and fuller than it was just before the bleeding. That it might be quicker and fuller I could conceive, because I have often seen such effect from bleeding where there had been an oppressed and languid pulse; but I cannot say that I ever saw a case where the pulse became harder, and acquired the vibration, except when debility or languor was produced, and where the blood was weak m its powers of coagulation, being flat on the coagulated surface8. Another want of correspondence, or irregularity, takes place when a constitution sympathizes with a local inflammation. There are cases where the pulse becomes slow, and often irregular; such are mostly to be found in old people, when the constitution is affected either origi- nally or sympathetically, and in such I suspect that a disposition for dissolution, and perhaps mortification, is much to be feared. A man, aged sixty-eight years, had an occasional inflammation in one of his legs, which often ulcerated, and which seemed to arise more from a de- fect in the constitution than to be simply local. In those indispositions his pulse seldom exceeded forty in the minute; and as he began to get better his pulse became more and more frequent. The varieties of the pulse, arising from the seat of the inflammation and the nature of the part inflamed, will be explained when I treat on inflammations in different situations and parts. ยง. 8. The effects of Inflammation on the Constitution, accord- tug to the structure of parts, situation of similar structures, and whether vital or not vital. These circumstances make a very material difference in the effects on the constitution arising from local inflammation; for we shall find that the effects on the constitution are not simply as the quantity of inflam- mation, but according to the quantity and parts combined, (supposing constitutions to be equal,) which I shall now consider separately. In common parts, as muscle, cellular membrane, skin, &c., the sym- ptoms w ill be acute, the pulse strong and full, and the more so if it be ft It near to the heart; but perhaps not so quick as when the part is far a [See Vol. I. p. 537; and I)r. Marshall Hall, On the Effects of Loss of Blood, in Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xvii.]