6 INTRODUCTION. ยง.2. Of Parts susceptible of particular Diseases. .There are some parts much more susceptible of specific diseases than others. Poisons take their different seats in the body as if they were allotted to them. Thus, the skin is attacked by what are vulgarly called scorbutic eruptions, as well as many other diseases ; it is also the seat of the smallpox and the measles : the throat is the seat of action in the hydrophobia and the hooping-cough. The absorbent system, especially the glands, are more susceptible of scrofula than most other parts of the body. The breasts, testicles, and the conglomerate glands are most commonly the seat of cancer. The skin, throat, and nose are more readily affected by the lues venerea than the bones and periosteum, which however suffer sooner than many other parts, particularly the vital parts, which perhaps are not at all susceptible of this disease. These differences may arise from the nature of the parts themselves, or from some regular circumstances, which must act as a pre-existing cause. ยง.3. Of Sympathy. It is unnecessary to give a definition of sympathy, for it is generally very well understood when applied to the mind, and also by medical men when applied to the body. In the mind its reference is external; it depends upon the state of others, and one of its chief uses is to excite an active interest in favour of the distressed, the mind of the spectators taking on nearly the same action with that of the sufferers, and dis- posing them to give relief or consolation: it is therefore one of the first of the social feelings, and by many useful operations inclines mankind to union. In the body, sympathy has only a reference internally to the body itself, and is not so evident as the sympathy of the mind, although in some cases we see its effects. It is either natural or diseased; but it is the diseased only that I propose at present to consider. I shall divide the sympathy of the body into two kinds, universal and partial. By the universal sympathy is meant where the whole constitution sympathises with some sensation or action of a part. By partial sym- pathy is meant where one or more distinct parts sympathise with some local sensation or action. The universal sympathies are various in dif- ferent diseases ; but those which arise in consequence of local violence are principally three, viz. the symptomatic, the nervous, and the hectic fever. The symptomatic fever is an immediate effect of some local in- jury, and therefore is a universal sympathy arising from a local cause; the nervous has no determined form nor stages of the disease from the