624 CASE OF PARALYSIS, ETC. Mr. Hunter, considering the support of the patient, and some mode of administering medicine, to be the first object, proposed that a hollow flexible tube should be passed down into the stomach, through which he might receive nourishment and medicines; and mentioned his having an instrument of that kind, made of spiral wire, covered with gut for the purpose of injecting liquids into the stomachs of animals, which might be applied to the present case ; but that Mr. Cumming was better able to assist them in getting a tube that would answer that purpose. He also recommended, when the tube was made, to inject jellies, eggs beat up with a little water, sugar, and milk, or wine, by way of food, and that the medicines might be mixed with it. In compliance with these directions they contrived a tube, and injected into the stomach some of the above-mentioned substances twice a-day : three drams of valerian were mixed with this food, increasing the dose to six drams. Laudanum was given in the dose of forty drops by clyster, and afterwards thirty drops by the mouth; but both doses affected the head, without procuring rest. The valerian was continued till the 26th of March, at which time he had taken four ounces, and had evidently recovered a degree of sensation in his throat. Mr. Hunter was again consulted, and ordered two scruples of flour of mustard, and one dram of tincture of valerian, twice a-day: under this treatment the power of swallowing gradually returned, and on the 29th the use of the tube was no longer necessary. The natural sensation of the throat and right arm had not returned in the month of April. The instrument made use of was a fresh eel-skin, of rather a small size, drawn over a probang, and tied up at the end where it covered the sponge, and tied again close to the sponge where it is fastened to the whalebone, and a small longitudinal slit was made into it just above this upper ligature. To the other end of the eel-skin was fixed a blad- der and wooden pipe, similar to what is used in giving a clyster, only the pipe large enough to let the end of the probang pass into the blad- der w ithout filling up the passage. The probang, thus covered, was introduced into the stomach, and the food and medicines were put into the bladder, and squeezed down through the eel-skin. The instrument did not produce irritation in the fauces or oesopha- gus : in such cases, the parts losing their natural sensibility, allow greater liberties to be taken with them. An eel-skin seems very well adapted for this purpose, being smooth, pliable, and readily passed into the stomach ; but as cases of this kind may occur where eels cannot be procured, a portion of the gut of any small animal, as a cat or lamb, will make a very good substitute.