446 OF PUS. tine was wiped dry, and a piece of talc applied to it; the fluid collected on it had a great number of globules, which were smaller than those at first observed. In an hour, this portion of intestine had its blood-vessels considerably increased in number, the whole surface appearing of a uni- formly red colour: this was wiped dry, and a piece of talc laid upon it; the fluid collected did not appear to be made up of globules, but of very small parts, which had some transparency, but not exactly regular in their figure, which became still more evident on drying, when they lost the transparency altogether; these were most probably coagulating lymph. This was repeated upon the surface of the spleen, which had its surface excessively red, from the increased number of small vessels carrying red blood, and the result was exactly similar. Fiom these experiments the fluid which lubricates the peritonaeum seems to undergo changes, in consequence of exposure, and at last, when inflammation takes place, to have coagulating blood substituted for it. Although the lubricating fluid of the peritonaeum is so small in quan- tity in a natural state, yet before that cavity has been exposed for half an hour the quantity is much increased, and has a mottled appearance of oil and water; but from the appearance in the microscope, it is only an increase of the original fluid with some coagulating lymph, although mistaken by some anatomists for an oily lubricating liquor. Experiment III. At half-past seven o'clock in the morning, an in- cision was made with a lancet into the upper fleshy part of a young ram’s thigh, into which was introduced a silver canula, about a quarter of an inch in diameter and three quarters long, writh a great number of small holes in the sides and open at the bottom; it was fastened by means of ligatures to the skin, and a small cork adapted to it. The blood was sponged out several times, and the cork kept in during the intervals. At half-past nine the cork was withdrawn, and the canula was found to contain a fluid ; a piece of talc was dipped in it, and the appearance was evidently globular, exactly like the red globules without the colour. At eleven, the quantity of fluid much increased, and the same appearance. At one, the quantity half filling the pipe, of a reddish brown colour; the globules more numerous, without colour when diluted with water. At *hree, the quantity considerable, the globules smaller, freer from colour. At half-past five, the same. Experiment IV. In the same manner the canula was introduced into the fleshy part of an ass s thigh, at nine in the morning; and at one o’clock, as also at two, there was a fluid tinged with red "lobules. At four, there were no diffused globules, but there appeared to be small flakes in a transparent fluid ; however, they proved to be clusters of glo-