325 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. well as the os tincae in the time of labour, the consequence of the pre- ceding actions, and necessary for the completion of those which are to follow. The force of the circulation would seem to have some share in this effect, but only as a secondary cause ; for I could conceive a part to in- flame, or be in a state of inflammation, although no blood were to pass. As a proof of this, we may observe, that by lessening either the action of the heart, or the column of blood, inflammation is lessened; and I ! may also observe, that we have an increased pain in the inflamed part in the diastole of the artery, and a part inflamed by being gently pressed is made easier. Thus a person with an inflammation in the finger will find relief by gently pressing it in the other hand. These are strong ] proofs that it is not a contractile action of the muscular coat of the ves- sel ; for in such a sensible state of vessels, if they contracted by their muscular power, the pain would be in their systole ; for we find in all muscles which are in a state of great sensibility, from whatever cause, jl that they cannot act without giving great pain. Thus an inflamed bladder becomes extremely painful when expelling its contents; an j i inflamed intestine in the same manner. I should say, therefore, that in | i inflammation the muscular coats of the arteries do not contract. Whatever purpose this increase of the size of the vessels may answer, we must suppose it allows a greater quantity of blood to pass through : the inflamed part than in the natural state, which supposition is sup- I' i ported by many other observations. The part inflamed, I have already | observed, becomes to appearance more vascular than when in the natu- ral state, and it is probable that it is really so, both from new vessels being set up in the inflamed part, as well as from the new and adven- titious uniting substance becoming vascular. Besides, the vessels of the parts are enlarged, so that the red blood passes further than common, which increases those appearances. But the brain appears to be an excep- tion to these general rules ; for in all diseases of the brain, where the ef- fects were such as are commonly the consequence of inflammation, such as suppuration from accidents, I never could find the above appearances; ; t^lc ,)ra'n ma7> perhaps, go directly into suppuration, as sometimes the ; j peritonaeum does ; but its slowness of going into suppuration after the . accident would make us suppose, a priori, that there was sufficient time ; for adhesions to forma. [In an inquiry into the proximate cause of inflammation, two principal considera- ; lions occur: first, as to (lie state of the capillary circulation, and, secondly, as to the ! influence of the nervous system. 1. When the web of a frog's foot, or the transparent mesentery of a warm-blooded ! animal, are viewed in the field of a good microscope, and at the same time irritated,