OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 159 i periment, having examined the mouths of the arteries, I found them |j i closed up, so that the muscular coat had contracted in the twenty-four |j I hours to such a degree as to close entirely the area of the artery. That same morning I repeated the experiment of Friday, and on Sunday |! j morning observed the result of this second experiment to be similar to |] i that of the former. On this morning (Sunday) I repeated this experi- ment the third time, and on Monday observed that the result had not been the same as before, the mouths of the arteries remaining open; which showed that the artery had become dead. There was but little alteration perceived in the orifices of the veins in all the experiments. These experiments show that the vessels of the cord have the power of contraction above two days after separation from the body. Having given a general idea of muscular action, including muscular relaxation, together with the union of the muscular and elastic power in an animal, I shall now apply them to the arteries. There are three states in which an artery is found, viz. 1st, the na- tural pervious state; 2nd, the stretched; and, 3rd, the contracted state, which may or may not be pervious. The natural pervious state is that to which the elastic power naturally brings a vessel which has been stretched beyond or contracted within' the extent which it held in a state of rest. The stretched is that state produced by the impulse of the blood in consequence of the contraction of the heart; from which it is again brought back to the natural state by the elastic power, perhaps assisted by the muscular. The contracted state of an artery arises from the action of the muscular power, and is again restored to the natural state by the elastic. It has been shown that certain muscles have both a voluntary and in- voluntary contraction, and that in some of these the involuntary action having brought the part to a necessary position, supports it in that state till it be either necessary for the muscle to relax, or for the voluntary action to take place: instances of which I have given in the sphincter muscles. I shall now endeavour to show that the arteries have a middle state, but that in them the power of bringing the coats into a certain position, and sustaining them in it, is not the effect of a muscular but of an elastic power: and that the muscular action, both in contraction and relaxation, is involuntary. In parts endowed with considerable elastic powers, although not ap- parently muscular, as many arteries, but which we yet know, from other modes of information, to be possessed of muscular power, elasticity is so combined as to produce a middle or natural state, by acting to a cer- tain degree only as an elongator of the muscular part in some of its