164 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. which, by contracting in all directions, brings them back again to their natural state. The. action of the muscular power, being principally in a transverse direction, tends, when the artery is extended, to lessen its diameter, and assist the elastic power; but as its quantity of contraction is supe- rior to that of the elastic power, it does or may contract the artery be- yond what the latter could effect. When the muscular action ceases, elasticity will be exerted to dilate the vessel and restore it to a middle state again, becoming the elongator or antagonist of the muscular coat, and by that means fitting it for a new action as described in other parts of the body. This will be most evident in the middle-sized vessels; for in the smaller, the proportion of elastic substance is not so consider- able, and therefore it will contribute less to the dilatation of the vessel when the muscular coat relaxes. Yet we must suppose that no vessel even to its very extremity, is ever entirely collapsed ; but that it pos- sesses an elastic power sufficient to give it a middle state. Although these different structures do not always bear the same proportion to each other in arteries of the same size, yet we must conclude there is in these vessels a certain regular proportion preserved, and I am inclined to believe that the elasticity is in some degree in an inverse proportion to the decrease of size, presuming at the same time that the muscular power increases in the same proportion. A vessel is stretched beyond its natural state, first by the force of the heart, and in succession by the first order of vessels; then it is that the elastic power is exerted to contract the vessel, and restore it to the natural size; and in the per- formance of this it will be more or less assisted by the muscular power, according to the size of the vessels; least in the larger, and most in the smaller vessels, as wag observed above. There appears to be no mus- cular power capable of contracting an artery in its length, the whole of that contraction being produced by the elasticity. For in a transverse section of an artery, made when the muscles of the vessels are in a contracted state, it may always be observed, that the external or elastic coat immediately contracts longitudinally, and leaves the internal or muscular coat projecting; which w’ould not be the case if there was a longitudinal muscular contraction equal to the elastic, and were not the quantity of muscular contraction greater than the elastic there would be no occasion for muscles. Another proof of this is, that if a piece of contracted artery be stretched transversely, or have its area increased, and be allowed to recover itself, it loses a part of its length. To under-* stand this it will be necessary to know that muscular fibres by contrac- tion become thicker, and in proportion corresponding with the degree of contraction in the muscle.