ON INTROSUSCE PTION. 591 and the natural motion being restored, a cure would probably be per- formed. This disease happens most frequently in the first fifteen years of life, not occurring so commonly in older people, neither does it, I believe, ever take place in the colon itself, although we find that gut affected by it*. An iutrosusception can never be perfectly known till after death; but where there are violent affections of the bowels, attended with consti- pation, we have reason, from the cases which have been examined in the dead body, to suppose that this disease may be the cause of them : there are, however, so many other diseases which produce the same sym- ptoms, that nothing can be ascertained. But if an introsusception is sus- pected, it will be proper in the mode of treatment to suppose it to be of the progressive kind. In the treatment of this disease various methods have been proposed: bleeding, to lessen the inflammation that might be brought on, and quick- silver, to remove the cause, are the most obvious, and the means that are usually recommended. Quicksilver would have little effect, either in one way or other, if the iutrosusception was downward; for it is to be supposed that it would easily make its way through the innermost contained gut, and if it should be stopped in its passage, it would, by increasing its size, become a cause (as before observed) of assisting the disease. In cases of the retrograde kind, quicksilver, assisted by the peristaltic motion, might be expected to press the introsusception back; but even under such circumstances it might get between the containing and inverted gut into the angle of reflection, and by pushing it further on increase the disease it is intended to cure. From the account I have given of the manner in which it is produced, I should propose the following treatment in cases of progressive intro- susception. Everything that can increase the action of the intestine downwards is to be particularly avoided, as tending to increase the peristaltic motion of the outer containing gut, and thus to continue the disease. Medi- cine can never come in contact with the outer fold, and having passed the inner, can only act on the outer below, therefore cannot immedi- A prolapsus ani is, in some respects, similar to an introsusception, and may possibly begin in the same way, but is continued by the action of the abdominal muscles, never by the action of the gut itself. It differs from intiosusception as not being contained in a gut; for, instead of having an inclosing gut inverting itself by its own .action, there is an inclosed gut protruded by the action of the abdominal muscles and the passing of the faeces through it, and the point of inversion is at the extremity of the protrusion, and as it inverts it pushes out of the body.