THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 4GS The reasons of this are evident: one is, a readiness in the parts to be freed from a disease already existing; the other is, a backwardness in the parts to admit a disease. This principle therefore in the animal oeconomy produces one of the most curious phenomena in the whole process of ulceration, viz. the susceptibility which the parts lying be- tween an extraneous body and the skin have to ulcerate, while all the other sides of the abscess are not irritated to ulceration ; and the neces- sity there is that it should be so must be very striking; for if ulceration went on equally on .all sides of an abscess, it must increase to a most enormous size, and too great a quantity of our solids must necessarily be destroyed. Bones, we have observed, are also subject to similar circumstances of ulceration; for whenever an abscess forms in the centre of a bone, or an internal exfoliation has taken place, the extraneous body acts upon the internal surface of the canty, and produces ulceration. If the matter or dead piece of bone is nearer one side than the other, ulceration takes place on that side only; and here too the provision of Nature in abscesses comes in, for the adhesive inflammation extends it- self on the outside in proportion as ulceration extends itself on the in- side of the cavity, and as ulceration approaches to the surface of the bone the adhesive disposition is given to the periosteum, then to the cellular membrane, &c. And what is very curious, this adhesive inflam- mation assumes the ossifying disposition, which I have called the ossific inflammation, and appears as a spreading ossification, in the same man- ner as in the callus of a simple fracture. The consequence of these two processes taking place together in bones is very singular, for the ulcerative process destroying the inside of a bone while the ossifying makes addition to its outside, the bone often increases to a prodigious size, as in cases of spina ventosa; but in the end the ulceration on the inside gets the better, and the matter makes its escape. Nature has not only made what might be called an instinctive pro- vision in the parts to remove themselves, so as to bring extraneous bodies to the skin for their exit, and thereby from this principle has guarded the deeper-seated parts, but has also guarded all passages or outlets where, from reasoning, we might suppose no great mischief could arise from bringing extraneous bodies thither; and in many cases a seeming advantage would be gained, such passages appearing to be more convenient for the exit of such matter, and likely to produce less visible mischief in procuring them. Thus a tumour in the cheek, close on the internal membrane of the mouth and some way from the skin, shall in its growth push externally.