FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 319 and red streaks run up the foot, terminating about the ankle, while there were several arising on the fore part of the leg just below the knee. They often make a network on the leg, and are frequently a forerunner and an attendant on mortification. They seldom go further than a blush in the skin, seldom thicken, hut are more of the cedematous kind ; how- ever, we sometimes find hard cords running from sores and inflamma- tions, but these are commonly deeper-seated, and I have suspected them to be veins. As a proof of this, I have seen the superficial veins of the leg have the skin red over them, similar to those above described, and the veins have felt hard under the finger. These reddish streaks are supposed to be absorbents, becoming in- flamed by their carrying a stimulating fluid. I am apt to suppose them to be absorbents, but I do not conceive that this effect arises from ab- sorption. If it arose from such a cause it should be uniform ; the cause should always exist when the effect takes place. It is first to be ob- served that it only takes place in certain constitutions, in which absorp- tion one way or other explains nothing; and I find, upon observation, that this effect shall be coeval with the inflammation where no suppu- ration has taken place. I have even seen it arise from accident, prior to the possibility of inflammation taking place, viz. in the time of the pain arising from the immediate effects of the accident: this was in the finger, from the prick of a clean needle, which had been for some time piercing new buckskin leather; the glands in the armpit were sore ; sick- ness, attended with its usual symptoms, such as oppression, was nearly as immediate. Its direction from the source of the circulation is another strong proof of its not arising from absorption, and its taking place at some distance is also a corroboration of the same opinion. Another strong circumstance in favour of this opinion is that the morbid poisons do not produce this effect, where we know absorption has taken place. Thus the venereal seldom if ever produces it. The hard cord passing from the prepuce along the upper part of the penis I do not conceive to he of this kind. In the smallpox after inoculation it has been observed, but I imagine it was only in the above-mentioned constitutions. I could conceive it to arise in the plague, if there was any local disease. I am therefore rather apt to attribute this appearance to the irritation run- ning along the lymphatics, more especially in such constitutions; and as we do not allow the veins to be absorbents, their being affected must be supposed to arise from the same causea. Whenever we see this effect we may, in some degree, form an djunion of the kind of inflam- mation, and that it is not the most favourable. [See paper On Absorption by Feins in Vol. IV., and On Inflammation of the Veins at