THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 351 I have observed, when I was treating of the blood, that it was capa- ble of becoming vascular, when deposited either by accident, or for par- ticular purposes ; and I had reason to believe that a coagulum or coagu- lating lymph had a power of becoming vascular in itself when it could be supplied with blood, and mentioned the coagulum in a large artery as an instance. Likewise, when I was treating of union by the first intention, I explained the intercourse established by the uniting medium becoming vascular, and those vessels uniting across by a process called inosculation. The same reasoning is applicable to the union by means of the adhesive inflammation; for it is the blood in all cases that is to become vascular11; but this takes place sooner or latter, according to the apparent necessity. In some it becomes vascular immediately, in others very late, and indeed in some hardly ever, according to the de- gree of utility to arise from that change. Where it becomes vascular soonest, there the vessels are found also in greatest numbers, the two effects depending on the same principle. Extravasation, whether of blood or only of lymph, becomes vascular almost immediately when thrown out into the cavity of the human ute- rus in the state of pregnancy. Here is an operation necessary to go on, which is more than the simple support of the extravasation itself; but when the extravasation is thrown out by accident, or for the purpose of producing adhesions, the immediate intent is answered without the vessels, and vascularity only becomes necessary afterwards ; therefore vascularity in such cases is the second consideration, not the immediate one. But in the case of impregnation it must be immediate, for the simple extravasation would not answer the intention. This shows that this extravasation is very different from that of the menses. The new vessels which are formed in the newly extravasated and uniting substance become of use, both during the state of adhesion and suppuration. In the first they serve to give powers of action to this new substance, which assists in preventing suppuration. In the second, where this cannot be done, they assist in forming a vascular basis for the granulations. When we cut into inflamed parts after death we find them firm and solid, resembling the section of a lemon, or some cedematous tumour, where we know extravasation has taken place. This appearance arises from the cells in the cellular membrane, and other interstices of parts, being loaded with extravasated coagulating lymph ; from this circum- stance they are cemented together, and become impervious to air, not similar in these respects to common cellular membrane or natural parts.