369 TIIE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. lution. Probably the sooner [the attempt is made] after its commence- ment the better it is. The object of the attempt is to prevent suppu- ration taking place, although suppuration may be considered as a reso- lution ; but it is the mode of resolution we commonly wish to avoid. Resolution is in general only to be attempted, with any probability of success, under the following circumstances, viz. first, when the inflam- mation is in consequence of the constitution, or a disease of the part; secondly, in cases of accident, where there is either no exposure, or where it has been removed in time, as, for example, by bringing the parts in contact; thirdly, where the life of the part has not been de- stroyed. In all such cases we find that resolution can take place; but in those cases arising from accident and a continuance of exposure joined, or where death of the parts is produced by the accident, it be- comes impossible to hinder the suppuration from taking place. I have already observed, that in many bruises, as well as simple frac- tures, where the cavities are not exposed, and where they are to heal by the first and second intention, the inflammation, in most of these cases, is capable of being resolved, although in some such cases the in- flammation runs so high as to threaten suppuration. I have also already shown that, in parts which have been divided and exposed, the inflam- mation is, in a great measure, prevented by bringing them together; or, if it has taken place previous to the union, that the same operation of union is sufficient to produce resolution ; and I have likewise shown, that where parts were not brought together, Nature attempted to pre- vent inflammation by covering the wound with blood and forming an eschar, which in many cases will cither prevent or remove inflamma- tion : all of which shows a power of resolution even in cases where the parts have been exposed. As it is commonly supposed that there are a great many local diseases that should not be resolved, the first thing necessary to be considered is when the resolution should or should not be attempted. On the con- trary, there are cases where inflammation is to be excited; but these arise commonly from disease, which is not to our present purpose. Yet it sometimes happens in accidents, where inflammation is necessary, that it is not sufficient for the reinstatement of the injured parts, as in some simple fractures, where the first bond of union, the extravasated blood, had not fulfilled its purpose, and had been absorbed, and where the inflammation was too slight to supply its place ; so that the union of parts being prevented, another mode became necessary, not at all a consequence of inflammation, viz. by granulations without suppuration*; VOL. m. * [Sec Vol. I. p. 427.] 2 B