69 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. is separates readily into its constituent parts. The serum swims upon :he top, and the red globules fall to the bottom, while the lymph would oe suspended between the two if the red part were not retained in the .vmph, from its coagulation: but this constant effect is no absolute proof of the difference in the specific gravities of the serum and coagu- lating lymph; for we still do not know but that the red globules, which are evidently the heaviest, make the coagulating lymph to sink in the serum. To ascertain this circumstance I made the following experiment: i t took some blood, which separated easily into its constituent parts; I ::hen suspended in a portion of serum a piece of coagulating lymph, • which was free from red globules, and it sunk to the bottom, but not very quickly : this proves that the lymph, when coagulated, is somewhat heavier than the serum. I then took as much of the bottom of the coagulum containing the red globules, and put it into the serum along with the lymph, to see which of them sunk the fastest, and found that the piece with the red globules sunk much more quickly than the other; I should think three times as fast. The serum itself is much heavier than common water, for when the parts before mentioned were put into common water, in the same manner as into the serum, they both sunk much faster, and there was not that disproportion between the times of their falling as in the serum. But if the blood has a strong disposition to coagulate, and is not in large quantity, it will coagulate soon, and involve the red globules; yet there will then be fewest at top, and they will be more and more crowded towards the bottom; though there would appear in such blood to be no coagulating lymph at top free from the red globules, yet in most of it a thin pellicle may be found, which can be pulled off. I have already observed that the whole mass of blood, taken together, in a great variety of classes of animals, appears of a red colour ; and I shall now further remark, that it is of a much deeper colour in some classes of animals than in others, which I believe arises from a greatef number of red globules being contained in a given quantity of lymph and serum. This, I think, evidently appears to be the case when we examine a portion of the blood itself belonging to different classes of animals. In the class called quadruped I believe it has the deepest body of colour ; I am not, however, certain that it is not nearly as deep in some birds; and even in the same class of animals it appears to have a much greater body of colour in some species than in others. Thus, it appears to be deeper in the hare than in the rabbit. It is the red part itself which makes the difference in depth of colour in different parts of the animal; and the common mode of judging is by the colour ol the parts in different classes of animals that have red blood ;