OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 171 elasticity of the arteries being very considerably diminished, more espe- cially in the larger trunks, where the force of the heart requires to be broken, the blood will be thrown into the second and third order of vessels with increased velocity. In the young the current is slower, from the reaction of the elastic power during the relaxed state of the heart •, whereas at the heart the motion is equal to the contraction of the heart; and as the heart is probably twice the time in relaxing that it is in contracting, from this cause alone we may suppose the whole is two tliirds less in the smaller vessels. As elastic bodies have a middle state, or state of rest, to which they return after having been dilated or contracted by any other power, and as they must always be acted upon before they can react, the use of elasticity in the arterial system will be very evident. It is by this means that the vessels adapt themselves to the different motions of the body, as flexion and extension; so that one side of an artery contracts while the other is elongated, and the canal is always open for the reception of blood in the curved, stretched, or relaxed state. The muscular power of an artery renders a smaller force of the heart sufficient for the purposes of circulation; for the heart need only to act with such force as will be sufficient to carry the blood through the larger arteries, and then the muscular power of the arteries takes it up, and, as it were, removes the load of blood while the heart is dilating. In confirmation of this remark, it is observable in animals whose arte- ries are very muscular, that the heart is proportionably weaker, so that the muscular portion of the vessels becomes a second part to the heart, acting where the power of the heart begins to fail, and increasing in strength as that decreases in power. Besides this, it disposes of such part of the blood as is necessary for the animal ccconomy, principally in growth, repair, and secretions. At the extreme ends of the arteries, therefore, we must suppose that their actions are varied from that of simply conveying blood, except those arteries which are continued into veins. §.4. Of the Vasa Arteriarum. The arteries are furnished with both arteries and veins, although it cannot be said that they are to appearance very vascular. • Their arte- ries come from neighbouring vessels, and not from the artery itself which they supply. This we see in dissection ; and I found by tilling an artery, such as the carotid, with fine injection, that still the arteries of the artery were not injected. On laying the coats of arteries bare in the living' body, wc can discern their vessels more evidently some