33 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. had ceased acting; but upon its being exposed, and extravasatcd into water, it soon coagulated*: yet, under certain circumstances in life, it has been observed that the blood will in a small degree coagulate: this is in the state of torpor. It is asserted by some author, whom I now do not recollect, that the blood of a bat coagulates when in that state ; and Mr. Cornish, (surgeon, at Totnes, in Devonshire,) to whom I ap- plied for some bats in the torpid state, sent me them, but in the car- : riage they always died : however, he took opportunities of examining them, and he found that the blood was in a certain degree coagulated; but it soon recovered its fluidity on motion and heat8. From these remarks, I should conclude that rest does not of itself in i the least assist the coagulation of the blood, but that this effect arises 1 from the blood being separated from the living vessels, and being de- ; prived of motion ; and that it happens sooner or later, according to other ; circumstances. It might be supposed that these are rather negativo causes of coagulation than positive ones; but it is to be considered, that : in a living body the cessation of a natural action, the absence of an usual impression becomes a cause of action, of which innumerable in- i stances may be given. I have now considered the circumstances under which the blood co- agulates, and shown that none of them alone, nor all them combined, i induce the blood to coagulate. My opinion is, that it coagulates from an impression; that is, its fluidity under such circumstances being im- proper, or no longer necessary, it coagulates to answer now the neces- sary purpose of solidity. This power seems to be influenced in a way in some degree similar to muscular action, though probably not entirely • There are some circumstances which hinder the coagulation of blood in living bodies, although extravasated. Two leeches had been applied, and had sucked till full. These were preserved for ten weeks, and then contained considerable quantity of blood, which appeared like that recently drawn from a vein, and coagulated when ex- posed. I have known, in tapping a hydrocele, that a small vessel has been wounded, and the blood, as it extravasated, got into the sac, and when tapped sixty-five days after, the blood has come out tliickish; but when extracted it coagulated, and separated into different parts *. * [I am informed by Dr. Marshall Hall, that in his experiments on hybernatlng animals, he found the blood quite as fluid as under ordinary circumstances. This is not different from what might have been expected; for notwithstanding that the respiration is almost wholly, if not entirely, suspended during the state of hybernation, the heart still continues to beat, and to circulate black blood, at the rate of twenty-eight strokes | in a minute. (Hall in Phil. Trans. 1834.)] k [A sanguineous tumour of the leg, which had existed upwards of eight months, and was supposed to be a chronic abscess, was punctured by Mr. Caesar Hawkins, at St George’s Hospital, in the course of the last year (1834), and about five ounces of fluid ! blood discharged, which immediately coagulated.] VO’ T,r. „