356 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. full, and hard pulse. She was bled, which gave her ease; the blood was sizy; the symptoms again returned, and she was bled a second time, which also relieved her, and the blood was more sizy than before; so tar all the symptoms agreed. The symptoms again recurred, and were more violent than before : she was bled a third time, and a third time relieved ; but this blood was not in the least sizy, although it came from the vein very freely. Here then the blood, under the same disease, lost this disposition, although the symptoms remained the same. As inflamed blood leaves a portion of the coagulating lymph free from the red globules at the top, and as that can be accounted for upon the principle of the coagulating lymph, in such cases, not coagulating so fast as when the blood has not this appearance, and as the coagulation hinders any comparative experiment respecting the weight of the red globules of each, I tried to see if they sunk in serum faster in the one kind of blood than in the other. I took the serum of inflammatory blood, with some of the red part, and also some serum of blood free from in- flammation, with nearly the same quantity of the red part. They were put into phials of the same size; I shook them at the same time, then allowed them to stand quiet, and observed that the red globules sub- sided much faster in the inflammatory' blood than in the other. To as- certain whether this arose from the red globules .being heavier or the serum lighter, I poured off the serum from each, as free from red blood as possible ; then put the red part of the one into the serum of the other, and shook them to mix them well; and, upon letting them stand quiet, the red globules appeared to fall equally hist. From these experiments it appears that the red part of inflammatory' blood was heavier than that which was not so, and the serum was lighter, and the difference pretty , nearly equal; for if we could suppose that the red globules were one tenth heavier, and the serum one tenth lighter, then the difference in the subsiding of the red globules of inflammatory blood in its own se- ; rum, to that which is not inflammatory, would be as one to five; and if they were to be changed, then they would be equala. To see whether the blood from an inflamed part was different from that drawn from a part not inflamed, the following experiment was made :—A large leech was applied to an inflamed surface, and when it had sucked itself full, another leech was suffered to fill itself from the breast where no inflammation existed. They were both cut in two, and * [This accords with the fact before mentioned of the proportion of fibrin in inflamed blood being increased at the expense of the albuminous parts of the serum. The results of ten experiments on inflamed blood gave the following average, viz. 4-2 fibrin, and 30-13 solid contents of the serum; the standard of health being respectively 2-8 and 42-2.—-Thackrah, p. 212, and notes pp. 37, 39.]