185 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. exercise, does it, or does it not also dilate and contract more lully, and also act with greater velocity in its contraction ? I believe that all these circumstances take place; for in exercise, the pulse not only be- comes more frequent, but fuller, as if more was thrown out of the heart; and the heart is found to make a greater emotion in the chest, striking with its apex against the inside of the chest with greater force*, which can only arise from a greater quantity being thrown out, and with greater velocity. The breathing corresponds with the quantity of blood and the velocity, for if a larger quantity passes through the lungs in a given time, the breathing must be in the same proportion increased; if with a greater velocity, the same thing must necessarily take place ; and if a greater quantity is thrown out, and with a greater velocity, then the arteries must relax in proportion, since the different parts must corre- spond with each other : we must suppose, therefore, that in health, when- ever there is any exertion greater than common, (which always increases the pulse,) the heart dilates more, contracts more, and does both with greater velocity; this I conceive arises from a necessity, which begins first in the veins, for when the body is in action the blood in the veins is obliged to move with greater velocity than when at rest: how far there may be other reasons for this, I will not pretend to determine. Another question naturally arises : as we find that the times of repe- tition of the pulse or the actions of the heart increase in many diseases, does the same thing happen, that is above supposed to arise, from ex- ercise in health? viz. does the heart dilate more, contract more, and also contract with more velocity ? I believe this case does not in the least correspond with our former position. The pulse in such circum- stances, although frequent, is small and hard, showing the arteries to be too much contracted by their muscular power, and therefore unfit to • The reason why the apex of the heart strikes against the chest in its actions was, I believe, first accounted for by the late Dr. William Hunter, in his lectures, as far back as the year 1746. The systole and diastole of the heart simply, could not produce such an effect; nor could it have been produced if it had thrown the blood into a straight tube, in the direction of the axis of the left ventricle, as is the case with the ventricles of fish, and some other classes of animals; but by its throwing the blood into a curved tube, viz. the aorta, that artery at its curve endeavours to throw itself into a straight line to increase its capacity ; but the aorta being the fixed point against the back, and the heart in some degree loose or pendulous, the influence of its own action is thrown upon itself, and it is tilted forwards against the inside of the chest*. a [The above explanation is correct as far as it goes; but the cause assigned is not the only one why the heart strikes with its apex against the ribs at the moment of con- traction. The direction of the mass of its fibres is also concerned, which tends to tilt the apex forwards, as may clearly be proved by placing the heart of any animal in a state of action on a plane surface, when it will be found that the apex moves forwards, although the base is comparatively stationary.]