GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF TIIR BLOOD. 30 Since, therefore, the blood may coagulate in the vessels either of a living or a dead body, and since it coagulates when extravasated into different parts of a living body, rest, like cold or air, might be supposed to be the sole cause of the coagulation of the blood: yet it is not rest considered simply, but rest under certain circumstances, which appears to possess such a power; for motion given to the blood, out of the ves- sels, will not of itself prevent its coagulation ; nor will it even in the vessels themselves, if all the purposes of motion are not answered by it. Motion seems to retard coagulation*a; yet we know for certain that • This is motion given to it in a vessel, without any empty space, and having beads put into it, which are shaken. second and third cups of blood in a common venesection coagulate more rapidly than the first; but if the blood be taken in the commencement of an inflammatory attack, while the system still labours under oppression, the first cup will coagulate more rapidly than the second. In the same manner, blood from the extreme parts of the body coagulates more rapidly than that which is near the source of circulation. Cth, Fontana found that although the poison of a viper had no effect on extravasated blood, it immediately promoted coagulation when it was injected into the veins. 7th, The blood coagulates in mortified limbs, and in the capillaries of inflamed parts. The following, however, are supposed to be proofs that rest, even in the living vessels, promotes the coagulation of the blood. Kellie remarked that blood which had been me- chanically impeded by the tourniquet speedily coagulated. The formation of coagula in the cavities of the heart and great veins during life is by no means of unfrequent occur- rence, and is generally found to be preceded by some obstruction in the circulation, accompanied with a depressed state of the vital powers. (Bright’s Medical Reports, ii. 63. Andral’s Precis de Pathologic, ii. 340.) Fibrinous vegetations about the valves of the heart in diseases of that organ, the formation of coagula in aneurismal sacs, the concretion of fibrinous clots in vessels which have been secured by ligature, and the coagulation of blood which has been effused into the interstices of the cellular membrane, are all evidences of the same nature. It must not be forgotten, however, that in all these cases the blood is placed under very different conditions to those which exist in a normal state, in as much as either the system or the parts which contain the blood are dis- eased, and consequently not possessed of a full power of life. Hence the great difficulty of assigning the real share which rest has in producing coagulation in these cases; for the effects which seem to arise from mere rest may in fact arise from the diminished vitality of the vessels. “ It is not rest considered simply, but rest under certain circumstances, which appears to possess such a power;” but when we reflect further that rest out of body has a contrary effect (see next note) we may, I think, “ conclude,” with Hunter, “ that rest does not of itself in the least assist the coagulation of the blood.” It is difficult to conceive that rest can have opposite effects on the blood in and out of the vessels.] a [When blood Is briskly stirred or shaken immediately on its effusion, it retains a homogeneous character, and apparently loses its coagulating properties: but this appear • ance is fallacious; for if blood thus treated be placed on a filter, the fibrin will become apparent. It has, in fuct, assumed the solid form; but being in a state of minute division, it is diffused through the turbid liquor, and thus escapes observation. (Davy in Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., xxix. 244.) Indeed it is very probable that coagulation is really accelerated in such cases, just as it is by a more moderate agitation. To prove the latter point, thiec portions of blood being taken; the first and third were moderately