304 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. with the disposition of the constitution or of the part at tiie time; and we shall find that this kind of inflammation depends upon the constitu- tion and part at the time, and not upon any peculiarity in the fever, as is also the case with the smallpox eruptions, viz. they partake of the constitution. . 1 hlS common principle in fever, of producing local inflammation, is the simple fever itself abstracted from every peculiarity. A fever, in all cases or of all kinds, is a disturbed action, like inflammation itself, which may be joined with any specific mode of action, and this disturbed action will always be according to the constitution, even when joined with any specific quality. The inflammatory fever is, perhaps, the most simple, because it is a simple fever on a constitution having no peculiarity of disposition. The putrid fever (as it is called) is perhaps no more than the same fever upon a constitution that has a peculiarity of action under that disturbance, and therefore it proceeds according to that peculi- arity. This is well illustrated in specific diseases; for instance, in the smallpox. I he smallpox produces a fever, viz. a disturbed action, joined with the specific; and although this action is produced by the same poison in two different persons, yet the one shall be the true inflammatory, and the other the putrid, the erysipelatous, &c. Now the same poison can have but one mode of irritating, abstracted from its poisonous quality, and this one mode produces fever; and it also can have but one mode of ir- ritating in respect of its poisonous quality, but that fever, abstracted from its poisonous quality, will be according to the nature of the con- stitution at the time, the poison being capable of producing nothing but a fever joined with its specific poison, and that specific quality takes place equally on every kind of constitution, the poison itself having no power of affecting the constitution in one person differently from that of another; it can only act, in a greater or less degree, according to the susceptibility of the person for such irritation. Now since every fever, " hether common or specific, is equally capable of producing local in- flammation, which,may be carried the length of suppuration, and as it cannot with any degree of reason be called critical in specific fevers, we ha\ e no reason for supposing that those suppurations are critical in the common fever, or in those levers which are of no specific kind. It was a leading doctrine of Boerhaave that inflammation consisted in an obstruction of the minute vessels, in consequence of too great a spissitude of the fluids, and his practice consisted in seeking for attenu- ants ; but this theory seems to be almost entirely exploded. This was certainly too confined an idea of all the causes of inflammation, and re- duced all inflammations to one species. The only distinction between