604 OX THE CURE OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. In performing the operation only one ligature was used, and the parts healed by the first intention. On the seventh day after the operation the first dressings were re- moved, and a good deal of matter came out by the side of the ligature. On the fourteenth the ligature came away, and in four weeks the wound healed. The sac in the ham, from being chafed previous to the operation, burst at this time, but healed up like any other sore, and at the end of three months he was perfectly recovered. Mr. Hunter s fourth patient was a coachman, thirty-six years old. The tumour in the ham was not very large, and situated lower down than usual, the whole leg being swelled, and the veins turgid. The pain he complained of was exceedingly violent, but being in a very bad state of health an operation was not thought advisable, and gentle pressure on the tumour was attempted; but, from the pain it occasioned, the operation was had recourse to, as the only chance of saving his life, al- though, from the irritable state in which he then was, even that seemed a forlorn hope. In performing the operation the vein was not included in the ligature; but in other respects it was similar to the formera. Immediately after the operation the limb was benumbed, and conti- nued so for some time, which was singular, as the nerve had not been included. It became, on the same day, four or five degrees hotter than the other leg, and continued so for the first fourteen days, when the tem- perature became the same as that of the other limb. 1 he sixth day the first dressings w'ere removed, and the skin was united everywhere except at the passage of the ligature. It remained in this state till the twenty-first, when the cicatrix inflamed and ulcer- ated, with a sloughy appearance, and hardness up the thigh. On the twenty-ninth day the ligature came away; the sore now put on a better appearance, suppuration took place where the hardness had been in the course of the artery, and the parts became softer, the dis- charge gradually diminished, and in the seventh week the wound was healed. But it did not continue so: for in three days an inflammation took place, and an abscess formed, and burst at the cicatrix, which also healed up. ( If from this expression we are to infer that the artery and vein were included in the same ligature in the other cases, it readily accounts for the troublesome effects which ensued in those operations.]