GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF TIIE BLOOD. 80 purple colour, the patients will be nearly expiring, and nothing but rest relieves them. Of this the following case is a strong instance. A. B. when a boy could never use the same exercise that other boys did ; he could not run up stairs nor ascend a hill without being out of breath, and had almost through his whole life an irregular pulse, more especially when he used more exercise than he could well bear. Upon the least increase of motion he had a palpitation at the heart, which was often so strong as to be heard by those that were near to him ; and his becoming soon fatigued was by his acquaintance supposed to be owing to a want of spirit or courage. With all this he grew to be a well-formed and common-sized man ; but still he retained those defects, which indeed rather increased as he extended his views, and with them extended his actions. About the age of thirty he took to violent exer- cise, such as hunting, and often in the chase would be seized so ill with palpitations and almost a total suffocation that he was obliged to stop his horse and be held upon the saddle. At such times he became black in the face, and continued so as long as the fit lasted. It was often several days before he perfectly recovered his usual health, and fre- quently he could not lie down in his bed, but was obliged to sit up for breath. All these symptoms gradually increased upon him, and at times, without any violence of exercise or action, he would feel as if dying, and used so to express himself; but as the cause of these feelings did not appear to his friends, they rather treated them slightly. At last mere anxiety of mind would bring on these feelings, palpitations, and suffocations in some degree. In the winter 1780 and 1781 he hunted very violently and also caught cold, which together brought on the above-mentioned complaints with greater violence than ever. He consulted two gentlemen of the pro- fession : the palpitation, the difficulty of breathing, the great oppres- sion, with the blackness in the face (I suppose) they thought either arose from spasms, or was nervous, for they ordered cordials, such as spirit of lavender, wine, &c. I was sent for, to give a name to the disease. Upon inquiring into all the symptoms, my opinion was that there was something very wrong about the construction of the heart, viz. about the source of the circu- lation ; that the blood did not flow at any time freely through the lungs, so as to have the proper influence of the air, but much less so when he was hurried; that a stagnation of the blood in any one part about the heart would produce in some degree suffocation, and want of due in- fluence of the air upon the blood (being the same thing), which was the cause of the darkness of the face at those times; that the means to be practised were in some degree contrary to what had been advised, viz.