124 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. I wished to see if blood that coagulated with an inflammatory crust putrefied later than that which coagulated without it; for I conceived that the strength of coagulation was something similar to the strength in its effects in a complicated animal like man, it is as simple in him as in the most simple animal, and is reducible to one single property in every animal.” The resistance to putrefaction which arises from the possession of the principle of life, and which, in fact, is the only genuine indication of its presence in many cases, is not, as Richerandsupposes, a “secondary effect, depending on the exercise of the func- tions,” because function presupposes organization, but proceeds from a simple principle of antagonism, just as gravity resists force, or one chemical affinity is balanced by another. I am speaking here only of the most simple substances ; for in completely organized bodies the resistance which is opposed to external agencies is undoubtedly to be regarded as a phenomenon of a mixed kind. Life then, according to this first and most simple idea of it, consists in a property of matter superadded to and different from all other known agencies, whereby substances otherwise extremely prone to be acted upon by external causes are enabled to preserve themselves from dissolution. It exists independently of visible organization and spon- taneous motion, and it inheres more or less in every living part, although not perhaps always in every part in equal intensity. Of its nature or immediate proximate cause we are entirely ignorant, except that a peculiar chemical and perhaps organical consti- tution of bodies always accompanies it, which may be either its cause or its effect, or a collateral effect of the same cause; but at present we are compelled to regard it as an ultimate fact. II. The principle of action, or susceptibility to impression and consequent power of action.—“ It was notsuflicient that animal matter should be endowed with this first prin- ciple of self-preservation; it was necessary that it should have action or motion within itself. This does not necessarily arise out of the arrangement for preservation. On the other hand, the arrangement for preservation, which is life, becomes the principle of action, not the power of action; for the power of action is a step further. The power of action must arise from a particular formation of those living parts; for before action can lake place, the matter must be arranged with this view. This is generally effected by the union of two or more living parts, so united as to allow of motion on each other, which motion tjie principle of action is capable of effecting when so disposed.” The impressions and actions thence ensuing will vary infinitely amongst themselves, accord- ing to the complexity of the organization, “producing thereby infinite variety, both in all natural and diseased acts.” Now incitability and the power of acting under stimuli are the common fundamental properties of all organized beings, and of all the parts of those beings ; but these qua- lities are differently designated, according to the different tissues in which they are manifested: irritability in muscles, sensibility in nerves, contractility in membranes, and so forth. This state of receptivity and action are carefully however to be distin- guished from that power on which these qualities depend, viz. the vital principle, of which we know nothing except from its effects. “ Life is a property we do not under- stand : we only see the necessary steps leading to it.” But although “ life is not action,” yet “it is continued and supported by it when it takes place. Action creates a necessity of support, and furnishes it. It is not neces- sary that action should continue in all parts ; in some it is necessary that the principle or power of action should be continued, but in others it is necessary that action should take place even for the preservation of the power of action.” Such arc the leading outlines, as they appear to me, of Mr. Hunter’s doctrines of life;