602 ON THE CURE OF TIIE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 1 he conclusion to be drawn from the above account appears a very important one, viz. that simply taking off the force of the circulation from the aneurismal artery, is sufficient to effect a cure of the disease, or at least to put a stop to its progress, and leave .the parts in a situ- ation from which the actions of the animal ceconomy are capable of re- storing them to a natural state. In confirmation of the cure of aneurism depending on taking off the, force of the circulation, I shall mention a case of aneurism that recovered without an operation, and in which the mode of recovery depended upon the same principle. The aneurism was in the femoral artery, and the swelling appeared upon the anterior part of the thigh, a little above the middle, extending upwards nearly to Poupart’s ligament; an attempt was made, by com- pressing the artery above the tumour, by means of an instrument some- •what resembling a steel truss, to give the blood in the sac a chance of coagulating, and by that means put a stop to the progress of the dis- ease. But, from the pain which it occasioned, every attempt to make a permanent compression on the artery proved ineffectual. The tumour increased to a very considerable size, a great degree of inflammation and swelling took place in the sac and common integuments, and mortifica- tion appeared to be coming on the skin. While in this state no pul- sation could be felt in the tumour, or the artery immediately above it, so that the steps preceding mortification had taken place*, which put a stop to the dilatation of the sac, and all its consequences. From the time the pulsation in the sac stopped, the inflammation and swelling subsided, although very slowly; and as the tumour diminished it became firm and solid, and the patient got perfectly well. It appears from these ca«es that surgeons have laid too much stress upon the supposed necessity of large collateral branches, to insure the success of this operation: an opinion which must have arisen from ana- tomical knowledge, rather than observations made from practice. I he second time Mr. Hunter performed this operation was upon a trooper about forty years of age. A tourniquet having been loosely npplied upon the thigh, the opera- tion was begun by a longitudinal incison through the integuments, and the artery and vein were exposed, as in the former case, but not taken up with a number of ligatures, for nothing appeared to have been gained by such practice, and the bad effects of it were obvious in the progress * On examining the bodies of those who die in consequence of mortifications, the artery leading to the mortified part is completely stopped up with a firm coagulum for several inches in length; this must precede the mortification, and seems intended to prevent htemorrhage.—From Mr. Hunter's Lectures,