11 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. The whole material world has been very properly divided into solids and fluids, these being the only essentially different states of matter we are able to observe. From one of these states to the other matter ap- pears to be continually passing, but with these restrictions, that no species of matter can assume a solid form without having first been in a fluid state, nor can any change take place in a solid till it be first formed into or suspended in a fluid11. The living animal body is obe- dient to these general laws, for all solid and animal matter has first been fluid, and having passed into this solid form, becomes a recipient for other fluids, out of which the solids may themselves be renovated and increased. The solids of an animal, although composed of one species of matter, yet admit of great variety in their appearance; and this variety takes place in some animals more than in others. But the fluid part of an animal body, in its natural state, has but one appearance, which is that of blood. There are certain parts of animals which, though hardly solid in their own nature, are yet to be considered as solids, from their being fixed in their situation, and appropriated to local actions ; some of them acting on the fluids (which are, to a certain degree, passive in all ani- mals), and disposing of them for particular purposes in the animal ceconomy, in the same manner as is done by those which are usually called the solids in animals; of this sort are the gelatinous parts in many of the inferior orders of sea-animals, as the medusa, the vitreous hu- mour of the eye, &c. There appears to be a sympathetic intercourse between the solid and fluid parts of an animal, designed by nature for their mutual support. In disease, when the machine cannot be fur- nished in the common way, the solids of the body supply the defects, and the person becomes leanb; and the fluids would appear from this to be more an object of attention in the machine than even the solids. This fluid part of an animal is called the blood, and in the animals with which we are most acquainted it is of a red colour. The nature “ [See Vol. I. p. 211. Chemistry affords a few exceptions to the universality of this law. Thus chlorate of potash combines with sulphur or charcoal by mere attrition j and the greater number of fulminating powders are examples of the same kind. Crystals of Glauber’s salt and nitrate of bismuth are converted into a fluid by being rubbed to- gether in a mortar, and so are the solid amalgams of bismuth and lead. The former part of this sentence is manifestly a pleonasm.] b [Without wishing to question the soundness of this opinion, I would yet venture to suggest that it is contrary to analogy to suppose that the body can subsist on its own materials, unless these have undergone a previous digestion. The fattest people, on this principle, would be the fittest subjects for fevers j repeated losses of blood would produce the greatest degrees of emaciation, and those who have most fat would be the best able to endure privations of food; all which is contradicted by observation. I apprehend