526 THK TREATMENT OF ABSCESSES. ยง. 8. Of the Methods of opening Abscesses, and treating them afterwards. All abscesses I have already observed will open of themselves, ex- cepting where the matter is re-absorhed ; and I have also observed, that in general they ought to he allowed to open of themselves, excepting some particular circumstance calls for an' early opening; hut when the skin over the abscess is very thin, it is not of so much consequence whether it is allowed to open of itself, or is opened at first by art. In large abscesses it will generally be necessary to open them by art, whether they have opened of themselves or not, for the natural opening will seldom he sufficient for the complete cure; and although it may be sufficient for the free discharge of the matter, yet they will heal much more readily if sufficiently opened, for the thin skin over the cavity gra- nulates but indifferently, and therefore unites but slowly with the parts underneath. Where the skin is very thin, loose, and much of it, it may be necessary to remove an oval piece from the centre, where it is gene- rally thinnest. A question naturally occurs, in what way should these be opened? 1 he methods recommended and used are by incision and caustic. In- cision may or may not remove a piece of the skin, but the caustic always will. I believe, as a general practice, there is no preference to be given to either, but under circumstances the incision is best; for instance, where there is but little skin to spare, as on the shin, scalp, etc., but where there is skin to spare, either arising from situation, as in the scrotum, or where a great deal of skin was thinned, as in a great extent ot inflammation and suppuration under the skin, a caustic wall answer equally well; therefore I should be very apt to be directed by my pa- tients if they had any fears or opinions about the matter, for some have a terror at the idea of a cutting instrument, while others hate the idea of a continued pain. If a caustic is approved of, then I should prefer the lapis infemalis vel septicus to the common caustic; the method of application I described when speaking of the methods of producing death hy art: but if left entirely to myself, I should prefer the incision to the caustic, because it is immediately done. If an abscess is allowed to open of itself, and this opening is not en- larged, no dressing is necessary, nor anything but to keep the surround- ing parts clean ; the continuation of the poultice, which was before ap- plied (if convenient), is perhaps as good an application as any, and when the tenderness arising from inflammation is over, then lint and a pledget; but an abscess opened by a cutting instrument may be called a mixed