OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 433 will take place. Those rigors, however, will not commence for some time alter the first opening, because the first opening will for some time •remove the disposition for ulceration all over the surface of the abscess ; but when it finds that this opening is not sufficient to take off the pres- sure, then it sets about forming another opening, and when it does so .the rigors will recur, and with as much severity as before. This is sup- posed by some to be new matter forming from fresh inflammation, and by others to be the absorption of matter already formed. Although ul- ceration does not affect the constitution equal to the mischief it is doing, yet its operations are often much affected by indispositions of the con- stitution ; in some indispositions its progress is increased; in others it is even brought on, as in many old sores, especially of the lower extremi- ties ; and in some indispositions its progress is lessened or stopped. The constitutional symptoms arising from a local complaint may be divided into three as to time, the immediate, indefinite, and remote. Of the first, or immediate, there appears to be but one ; of the second, there is probably a great variety, at least [a great many] appearing in very .different forms and at very different periods, in respect of the original cause. Of the remote there is probably only one. The immediate I shall reckon that which is called the symptomatic fever, and what I shall reckon the second are. nervous affections, as spasms, both temporary and permanent, and delirium. Whether the symptomatic fever, the .spasms, or the delirium, come first, is not certain, for often all concur or occur at the same time; but as the sympathetic fever is most con- stant, and is more an universal principle, it is to be reckoned the first. And the third, which I have called remote, is what is understood by the diectic, to which may be added the symptoms of dissolution, which is the last stage of all, and may be a consequence of either the above or any other disease. The first of the constitutional affections is commonly called the sym ptomatic fever, but which I choose to call the sympathetic inflammatory fever. I his is immediate, or nearly so, and is the sympathy of the constitution, with the first stages of a local disease, which excites an alarm in the constitution, thereby rousing up its powers to produce suc- ceeding actions. This would appear to show very much the nature of ,the constitution at the time; for not being of any specific nature, both inflammation and fever are led of course into the nature of the consti- tution by the natural tendency of the constitution itself, and therefore partake of it, and only become more or less of a specific, in proportion as t ic constitution has more or less of a specific susceptibility or dis- position. I have already observed, that affections of the constitution often com- VOL. Ill, o