150 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. The action of elasticity is continual, and its immediate effects are pro- duced whenever the resistance is removed, by which it may be distin- guished from other powers. Elastic matter can either be extended be- yond its state of rest, or brought within it. Thus a spring being bent, its concave side is brought within this state, and the convex side is car- ried beyond it: when under these circumstances it is left to itself, both sides endeavour to restore themselves. The power of an elastic body is permanent, always acting with a force proportioned to the power ap- plied, and therefore reacts as the body is elongated, bent, or compressed; but this is very different from the action of a muscle, as this last may act with its full force, or only part, or not at all, according to circum- stances. Elasticity *, which has the power of resisting the action of other parts, as well as of restoring the substance endowed with it, when forcibly removed from a state of rest, is introduced into an animal body, in order to cooperate in many respects with the muscles, and so to act as to restore or fit them for a new action, becoming in many cases an- tagonists to the muscles, which will be described when we speak of the combination of the two. ยง.2. General Observations on the Elongation of relaxed Muscles. Everything in nature that has the power of action has two kinds of motion exerted alternately, and a state of rest. Of the former, the one may be called the active, the other the state of recovery. In a muscle, the active is the state of contraction, the other the state of relaxation: the state of rest is merely the state of inaction. The contractile state of a muscle, as well as the relaxed, arises from a power inherent in itself; but the recovery or elongation must depend on some other power. Simple relaxation of a contracted muscle is not sufficient to enable it to produce another requisite effect; it is, therefore, necessary that there should be an elongator equal to the quantity of contraction intended to be produced: and as no muscle has the power of extending itself into what I shall call the state of recovery, an elongator of some kind or other is required, to enable every muscle to produce its effect, by a re- newal of contraction. This, although in some respects similar to the * It is to be observed, that elasticity in animals does not, like muscular contraction, depend on life, an elastic body possessing that quality as perfectly after death as before. Elasticity admits of two actions; a contraction when the substance is extended beyond the natural state, and an extension when it is compressed within it: both these are pos- sessed by the elastic parts which compose the vascular system; whereas muscles have but one action, or, at least, but one which can produce an immediate effect, and that is contraction.