252 UNION T5Y THE FIRST INTENTION. processes; but the first can be put into the same state with the two others, and therefore ought to precede them. For this purpose art must be employed by the surgeon to bring the separated surfaces into con- tact ; that, by retaining them there till union shall have taken place, the injury may be removed from the state of an exposed wound. This treatment of fresh wounds, with a view to cure them by the first inten- tion, is equally proper after many operations as in accidental injuries. Instances of this often occur after dissecting out tumours, scalping when no fracture is found, and when trepanning has not been performed ; and it has been put in practice even where the trepan has been applied. It has been employed also after amputations; in short, wherever a clean- cut wound is made in sound parts, and when the surfaces can be brought into contact, or where there is sufficient skin to cover the part, this practice may and should be followed. In no case, however, of a breach of continuity can we entirely pre- vent the parts from retaining the appearance of a wound ; for the breach in the skin will more or less remain, and the blood will coagulate, be- come dry, and form a scab. But this operation of nature reduces the injury to the state of a mere superficial wound, and the blood, which is continued from the scab to the more deeply-seated parts, retaining its living principle, just as the natural parts do at the bottom of a super- ficial wound, the skin is formed under this scab in the one case as in the other; yet if the scab should either irritate, or a part underneath lose its uniting powers, then inflammation, and even sometimes suppuration, may be produced. It is often, however, only inflammation that is pro- duced ; the scab here preventing the further progress of mischief in the same manner as the scabbing of the pus on a sore prevents the process of suppuration, which becomes one of the uses of pus. In many of the cases in which we mean to produce union by the first intention, it is not necessary to be very nice in sponging out the blood, with a view to make the two surfaces of the flesh come entirely into contact, the blood itself answering a similar purpose*. In several cases, having brought the two portions of loose skin together, I have seen the tw’o cut edges unite almost immediately; and though the cavity under- neath was distended with blood, yet it did well, the tumour gradually decreasing as the blood was absorbed: this is to be considered in the same light as an ecchymosis. When the portion of skin is not sufficient to cover the whole wound, and the cut edges cannot be brought together, still the skin should be made to cover as much as it can, in order to diminish the size of the parts that must otherwise suppurate and form a sore ; as, in consequence [The impropriety of this advice will appear from the note at the end of this chapter.]