OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. I may observe, by the way, that the arch of the aorta, or rather the great trunks 907 the blood’s motion in the part. We also find arteries playing in the parts, ramifying and anastomosing, which diminishes the velocity of the blood, such as those of muscles, membranes, &c. We may suppose, from the foregoing instances, that in some a quick supply of blood was ne- cessary in such parts; in one for the drain, in another for the support of the living powers; while in others a more regular, slow, and even motion answered the purpose better. Arteries in common pass in as direct lines from their origin to their destination as possible; but this is not universally the case, for in many parts they run in a serpentine manner, so much so in some as to form a body of themselves. Thus, the spermatic artery in the male of many animals, more especially the bull, is so convoluted as to form a body. In the female also the spermatic artery increases its serpentine course in the state of uterine gestation. The internal carotid artery in man and many other animals, as the horse, where it passes through the skull, runs in a serpentine direction ; and in the lion, bull, &c. it forms a plexus. This would appear to answer two purposes : one to lessen the impulse of the blood, as in the vertebral and internal carotid, sper- matic artery, &c.: the other to allow of the stretching of the parts upon which the artery passes, as the mouth or lips, the uterus, and other parts of the body which admit of being stretched or relaxed, as the bladder, stomach, intestines, &c., independently of their elasticity. We find not only the different systems of vessels communicating with each other, as the arteries with the veins, the veins with the heart to be continued into the artery again, and the absorbents with the veins to communicate in the end with the whole, but also the branches of each system communicating with one another, which is called anasto- mosis. Anastomosing of vessels is the opening of one vessel into another; so that if one of them be prevented from carrying its contents, the office can be performed by the other. The most common mode of anastomos- ing is when two vessels run into one, or are continued into each other, or one vessel opens into another, from which others arise ; but there is a peculiar communication between the two carotids, as well as between them and the vertebral, where a canal of communication passes directly between them; and this mode of communication takes place between the two descending aortas of some of the amphibia3. a [A similar construction is sometimes observed in the human subject, and has been figured by Tiedemann in his Tabula Arteriarum, Pi. iv. fig. 7.