410 OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. cocted”; or “ The abscess is not yet ripe”; the real meaning of which is, the abscess is not yet arrived at the time suppurative state. From hence it must appear that suppuration takes place upon those surfaces without a breach of the solids or a dissolution of the parts, a circumstance not commonly allowed * a; and when got beyond the ad- hesive state they become similar in their suppuration to the inner sur- faces of internal canals. There is a certain period in the inflammation when the suppurative disposition takes place, which is discovered by new symptoms taking place in the constitution, viz. the shivering. Although the sudden effects produced in the constitution would show that this change of disposition is pretty quick, yet its effects in the parts must be far from immediate, for some time is required for the vessels to be formed by it, so as to produce all the consequences intended by na- ture ; and, indeed, we find it is some time before suppuration com- pletely takes place, and that it is sooner or later, according as the in- flamed state is backward in going off; for while the inflammation lasts, the part, as it were, hangs between inflammation and suppuration. The effect of inflammation appears to be the producing of the suppu- rative disposition, or that state of a part which disposes it to form pus; in doing this the inflammation seems first to be carried to such a height as to destroy that state of the parts on which itself depends, the con- sequence of which is, that they lose the inflammatory disposition, and come into that which fits them for forming pus. It seems to be a fixed and most useful law in the animal ceconomy, that in spontaneous inflammation, when it has either destroyed the na- tural functions of parts, so much as to prevent their returning by a re- trograde motion, as it were, to the state from whence they set out, or • The knowledge of (his fact in some of the larger cavities is not quite new, for I remember, about the year 1749 or 1750, that a young subject came under our inspec- tion, and on opening the thorax it was found on the left side to contain a considerable quantity of pus. Upon examining the pleura and surface of the lungs, they were found to be perfectly entire. This was taken notice of by Dr. Hunter as a new fact, that sup- puration could take place without a breach of surface, and he sent to Mr. Samuel Sharp to see it. It was also new to him, and he published it in his Critical Inquiry. Since that period it has been often observed in the peritoneal inflammation. • [According to Dr. Thomson (Lectures on Inflammation, p. 316,) this doctrine was first distinctly suggested by Dr. Simpson of St. Andrew’s, in his Dissertaliones de Re Medicd, published in the year 1722. De Ilaen, in 1756, adopted the same view, and l)r.’Morgan more fully in 1763. Stilt, however, the prevailing opinion may have been different, and Mr. Hunter must certainly be supposed to have known what that was.]