588 ON INTROSUSCEPTION. more of itself, so that the angle of inversion in this case is always at the angle of reflection of the outer into the middle portion or inverted one, while the innermost is drawn in. From this we can readily see how an introsusception, once begun, may have any length of gut drawn in. 1 lie external portion acting upon the other folds in the same way as upon any extraneous matter, will, by its peristaltic motion, urge them further; and, if any extraneous substance is detained in the cavity of the inner portion, that part will become a fixed point for the outer or con- taining intestine to act upon. Thus it will be squeezed on, till at last the mesentery', preventing more of the innermost part from being drawn in, will act as a kind of stay, yet without entirely hindering the inverted outer fold from going still further. For it being the middle fold that is acted upon by the outer, and this action continuing after the inner por- tion becomes fixed, the gut is thrown into folds upon itself; so that a foot in length of intestine shall form an introsusception of not more than three inches long. The different appearances which I have described as taking place in an introsusception are distinctly seen in Plate XXIV., fig. 4., in which the different folds of intestine are exposed. I have asserted that the outer portion of intestine was alone active in augmenting the disease when once begun, but if the inner one was ca- pable of equal action in its natural direction, the effect would be the same, that of endeavouring to invert itself, as in a prolapsus ani; the outer and inner portions, by their action, would tend to draw in more of the gut, while the intermediate part only would, by its action, have a contrary tendency. I he action of the abdominal muscles cannot assist iu either forming or continuing this disease, as it must compress equally' both above and below, although it is capable of producing the prolapsus ani. In cases where introsusception begins at the valve of the colon, and inverts that intestine, we find the ileum is not at all affected, which proves that the mesentery, byr acting as a stay, prevents its inversion. From the natural attachment of the mesentery to the intestines, one would, at the first view of the subject, conceive it impossible for any one portion of gut to get far within another, as the greater extent of mesen- tery that is carried in along with it would render its further entrance more and more difficult, and we should expect this difficulty to be greater in the large intestines than in the small, as being more closely confined to their situation : yet the largest introsusception of any known was in the colon, as related by Mr. Whately*. • Vide Philos. Trans., vol. lxxvi. pags 31)5.