562 OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. might be wounded. His Helly had been fomented, a clyster of warm water was ordered, and a draught with confec. card, as a cordial, with twenty drops of laudanum, to procure sleep, as he wished to have some. We saw him again at three o’clock: the draught had come up. Had no stool from the clyster, nor any sleep ; had made water, and no blood being found in it, we conjectured that the kidneys, &c. were not hurt. He was now rather lower, pulse smaller, more restless, a good deal of tension in the belly, which made him uneasy, and made him wish to have a stool. It was at first imagined that this tension might be owing to extravasated blood; but on patting the belly, especially along the course of the transverse arch of the colon, it plainly gave the sound and vibration of air; therefore we wished to procure a motion, to see if we could not by that means have some of that air expelled. We wished also to repeat the cordial and the opium, but the stomach was become now too irritable to retain anything, and was at times vomiting, inde- pendently of anything he took : a clyster was given, but nothing re- turned or came away. We saw him again at nine o’clock in the evening. His pulse was now low and more frequent, coldness at times, vomiting very frequent, which appeared to be chiefly bile, with small bits of some- thing that was of some consistence ; the belly very tense, which made him extremely uneasy; no stool. From nothing passing downwards, and the colon continuing to fill, we began to suspect that it was beco- ming paralytic, probably from the ball having divided some of its nerves. Fumes of tobacco by clyster were proposed, but we were loath to use it too hastily, as it would tend to increase the disease, if it did not re- lieve ; however, we were prepared for it. Mr. Grant stayed with him the whole night; all the above symptoms continued increasing, and about seven o’clock in the morning he died, viz. about twenty-four hours after receiving the wound. He was opened next day at ten o’clock, twenty-seven hours after death, when we found the body considerably putrid, although the weather was cold for the season, the hlood having transuded all over the face, neck, shoulders and breast, with a bloody fluid coming out of his mouth, with an offensive smell: below this the body was not so far gone. On opening the abdomen a good deal of putrid air rushed out; then we observed a good deal of fluid blood, principally on each side of the abdomen, with some coagulum upon the intestines; when sponged up it might be about a quart. The small intestines were slightly inflamed in many places, and there adhered. We immediately searched for the passage of the ball. On searching for the course of the ball we found that it had passed directly in, pierced the peritoneum, entered again the peritoneum where