ON THE CURB OF THE POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 619 top of a stage-coach, about a fortnight before, so that now he could not button the knee of his breeches; there was a strong and equal pulsa- tion in every part of the tumour, which left no doubt of its being aneu- rismal; the leg was swelled and felt hard, the pulse was quick, and at times intermitted ; his general health, however, was tolerably good. Mr. Knight proposed performing the operation according to Mr. Hunter’s method; and, knowing that I had lately performed it in that way with success, requested that I would assist him. The operation was performed on the 29th of September, 1797, by Mr. Knight, nearly in the same way that I have described in the case last related: the silver needle was passed behind the artery, without including the vein or nerve, or detaching it for more than a quarter of an inch from its lateral connections; the pul- sation in the ham ceased the moment the ligature upon the artery was tied. The cut edges of the wound were brought together, except where the ligature passed out. On the 30th, the pulse was full and quick; he was therefore ordered to lose ten ounces of blood. August 3rd, the dressings were for the first time removed, and the wound was found united by the first intention : a small quantity of matter was pressed out by the side of the ligature. The wound was now dressed every day, and on the 18th he was allowed to get up; the ligature was examined at each dressing, but could not be brought away without using more force than it was prudent to employ. On the 22nd, there was a slight ha;morrhage from the wound, which was readily stopped by compression. On the 30th, the ligature came away with great ease. November 11th, the wound was completely healed; the tumour in the ham was nearly gone ; the patient in perfect health, and daily gaining strength, and the use of his limb. Case V. Mr. Marshal, a gentleman about fifty years of age, con- sulted me, in May, 179S, on account of a popliteal aneurism. The tumour in the ham, at the time I saw it, was considerably larger than a hen’s eSS■ After examining the case, I gave it as my opinion that an opera- tion was absolutely necessary to prevent a fatal termination of the dis- ease ; and that the chance of recovery depended wholly on the state of the femoral artery: if that was healthy, the operation which I intended to perform would succeed; and if it was not, even amputation of the limb would fail, as the divided artery could not be made to unite. Dr. Marshal’s opinion was taken whether it was advisable to try compression upon the aneurismal tumour; this he did not approve of, and the patient determined to submit to the operation. He walked about, and drank a pint of wine daily, till the operation was performed; although I had urged him in the strongest manner to remain perfectly quiet in a horizontal posture, and to live sparingly.