203 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. same with the artery when that vessel is in its systole, their outer sur- I face lining the inner surface of the artery; but the artery being elastic, iits diameter becomes larger when the blood flow's into it; and the ■ valves being inelastic, their loose margins or edges are brought more into straight lines across the area of the mouth of the artery, and nearer i to each other, so as to make an equilateral triangle. Thus they are (fitted to catch the returning blood, and the artery, reacting w'ith con- siderable force on the blood, presses it on the valves, so as to push l them inw'ards ; these, having no pressure on the side next the heart, be- icome convex on this side, shutting up entirely the mouth of the artery. Here then is an effect arising naturally out of a variety of causes, viz. the oblique direction of the valves, their want of elasticity, the elas- • ticity of the artery, and the dilatation of the artery; so that the return of the blood does not open the mouths of the valves, and in that wray shut up the mouths of the artery. To demonstrate this, let us suppose the extreme length of each of these valves to be an inch; then the cir- cumference of the artery, when in its systole, w'ill be three inches : in that case the valves lie close to the sides of the artery, and describe a i circle of three inches circumference (as in PI. XXI. f. 3.); but if you di- 1 late this artery as far as the valves will allow, which will be rather more ' than one fifth, the valves will run nearly into straight lines, and make an equilateral triangle (as in PI. XXI. f. 4.), whose sides are a little curved inw'ards. As the artery is filled from the contraction of the 1: heart, it is distended; and as it is distended, the valves do more and more their duty, till at length, by the full distension of the artery, they are made to bulge inwards, and the loose edges, with the corpora sesa- moidea, are pushed further tow-ards one another, by all of which posi- tions the area of the artery is entirely shut up“. * [If so great a dilatation of the artery, as is supposed, actually takes place during the systole of the ventricle, the effect upon the artery and valves would be different, I j conceive, from what is represented in the text; for taking the extreme length of the j ■ valves to be one inch, and the circumference of the artery, in its systole, as three inches, and in its diastole as three inches -(- -J- (which is the case supposed by the author), then would the artery, during its systole, dilate unequally, in the same manner as is observed in regard to veins; and instead of a circle, as in fig. 4. PI. XXL, would be thrown into a form exhibited in fig. 6.; that is, the dilatation of the artery would take place at all points, excepting where the valves are attached; but there, in consequence of the inextensibility of these bodies on the one hand and the impossibility of their [ assuming a straight direction on the other, while the pressure from behind remains, I the artery would bulge out in the intermediate spaces. The use of this arrangement I is very evident, as it tends to keep the edges of the valves (a a a fig. 5.) partly patent, j in readiness to catch the returning current of blood the moment the systole of the artery 1 commences. According to the explanation of the author, the area of the artery would be partially closed, as may be observed by inspection of fig. 6., and thus offer a consi-