629 ON LOOSE CARTILAGES IN JOINTS. These loose cartilages, as they have been commonly called, although they may occur in any joint of the body, are found most frequently in the knee ; and in this joint, from the pain and inconveniences they pro- duce, have become the object of an operation in surgery. One or more of them may be formed in the same joint; I have known one instance in which there were three; they are commonly about the size of a horse-bean, often much smaller, and sometimes considembly larger; when very large they do not give so much trouble to the patient as the smaller kind. A soldier in the 56th regiment has one nearly ns big as the patella, which occasions little uneasinesfe, being too large to insinuate itself into the moving parts of the joint. In this disease the removal of the loose bodies is the only mode of re- lief, and it is fortunate for those who are afflicted with it that the knee- joint is the most favourable in the body for such an operation; for the cavity extends a considerable way beyond the moving parts of the joint, and is continued into parts, which, when divided, will more readily unite than the common capsular ligaments, and be less liable to communicate the inflammation that comes upon the wound to the general cavity. As these loose bodies cannot always be found, no time can be fixed for the operation; but the patient, who will soon become familiar with his own complaint, must arrest them when in a favourable situation, and retain them there till the surgeon can be sent for. Before the operation the limb should be extended upon a table in an horizontal position, and secured by means of assistants ; the loose carti- lages are to be pushed into the upper part of the joint above the patella, and then to one side; the inner side is to be preferred, as in that situ- ation only the vastus interims muscle will be divided in the operation. Should there be several of these bodies they must be all secured, or the operation should be postponed till some more favourable opportunity, since the leaving of one will subject the patient to the repetition of an operation not only painful, but attended with some degree of danger. The loose bodies are to be secured in the situation above mentioned, by an assistant, a task not easily performed while they are cut upon, from their being lubricated by the synovia; and if allowed to escape into the general cavity, they may not readily, if at all, be brought back into the same situation. Ihe operation consists in making an incision upon the loose cartilage, which it will be best to do in the direction of the thigh, as the wound will more readily be healed by the first intention. If the skin is drawn to one side previously to making the incision, the wound through the parts underneath will not correspond with that made in the skin, which ciicumstance will favour their union. The incision upon the cartilage