321 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. ; {Sympathy is less ; for we find in many states of parts, and many con- stitutions, that there is a disposition to this sympathy, and in such the inflammation spreads in proportion a. §. 1. Action of the Vessels in Inflammation. The act of inflammation would appear to be an increased action of '.the vessels* ; but whatever action it is, it takes place most probably in tthe smaller vessels, for it may be confined almost to a point where no- thing but the smallest vessels exist. The larger vessels may be con- - sidered as only the conveyers of the materials, for the smaller to act upon j:*and dispose of according to the different intentions; however, inflam- mation in a part is not only an action of the smaller vessels in the part itself, but in the larger vessels leading to it. This is proved by a whit- ; low taking place on the end of a finger ; for although the inflammation I itself shall be confined to the end of a finger, and the inflammatory sen- |'sati0n or throbbing be situated in this part, yet we can feel by our hands, • when we grasp the finger, a strong pulsation in the two arteries leading to the inflamed part, while no such pulsation can be felt in the other i-tifingers ; and if the inflammation is very considerable, the artery, as high |ras ^ie wr‘st> wiU he sensibly affected, which proves that the arterial -system is at that time dilating itself, and allowing a much larger quan- tity of blood to pass than is usual. This is probably bv continued sym- b-pathy. Where the inflammation affects the constitution, the vessels of the psystem rather contract, and keep as it were stationary, which stationary . contraction is more or less according to the state of the constitution, fIn stronS healthy constitutions, whose powers are equal to the neces- sary actions, or in parts that affect the constitution less, this contraction ['is less and less stationary. The very first act of the vessels when the stimulus which excites in- • It may be here remarked, that the action of vessels is commonly supposed to he ontract,on, either by their elastic or muscular coats ; but I have shown that their elastic zz:r M ,h™' 'nd 1"™ re,“n “ J [Ih. g.po.M,. U, .pr..d d,pc,,„ „„ m„y „ ,hc Mure J depends on the constitution, it may be affirmed almost certainly that the ner- •oamdaWe",1 “ T “d that '°Ca,1>' there is a defective power of effusing a^,utable lymph ; a circumstance of which Mr. James has ingeniously availed himseff » form the basis of his classification of inflammations.] VOL. III.