GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 120 in the union of a cut nerve, where a piece has been taken out, it is by means of the blood forming a union of coagulum, and that the coagulum gradually becomes more and more of the texture, and has, of course, more and more the use, of a nerve, somewhat similar to the gradual change of blood into a bone in fractures. It would appear, then, that the blood is subservient to two purposes in an animal: the one is the sujtport of the matter of the body when formed, the other is the support of the different actions of the body a. * [On Life.—Although it would be foreign to the object of these notes to enter into a lengthened discussion on the nature of life in general, 1 shall, 1 trust, need no apology for presenting the reader with a condensed view of Mr. Hunter’s opinions on the sub- ject, since by so doing I shall furnish him with the means of more clearly comprehend- ing the nature, and more exactly estimating the value, of the arguments adduced by the author in support of his peculiar views respecting the life of the blood. Mr. Hunter had a great dislike to definitions, for, said he, a definition allows one “ to bring together a thousand things that have not the least connexion with itand for this reason probably he has abstained from setting forth, in the shape of a formal definition, his notions of life in the abstract. As it is necessary, however, when speak- ing of life, to fix on at least some of its essential properties by which to recognise its presence or absence, I shall take as a definition the short statement Mr. Hunter has made in his lectures, Vol. i. p. 223, of what he calls the most simple ideas of life. 1. “The first and most simple idea of life,” says he, “is its being the principle of self-preservation.” 2. “ The second is its being the principle of action,” or, as he has elsewhere stated it, “ the susceptibility to impression, with a consequent power of action.” “ These are two very different properties, though arising from the same principle,” and will require separate consideration. I. Of the principle of self-preservation.—“ By the living principle,” says Mr. Hunter, “ I mean to express that principle which prevents matter from fallinginto dissolution,— resisting heat, cold, and putrefaction I have asserted that life simply is the principle of preservation, preserving it from putrefaction.” Bodies belonging to the animal and vegetable kingdoms, considered as mere chemical compounds, must, from the energetic affinities of their component elements, be exceedingly prone to spontaneous decompo- sition ; nevertheless, we find them, when in a living state, existing unchanged, often for a great length of time, although placed under external influences the most favourable for the operation of these affinities. Thus, seeds retain their vitality for years, if not for centuries, when buried deep in the soil; during the process of incubation, the yolk, and also a part of the albumen, of the egg, remain perfectly sweet to the last, though subjected from three to four weeks to a temperature of 103°; or, on the other hand, a fresh egg will resist the influence of a freezing mixture considerably longer than an egg the vitality of which has been destroyed by previous freezing, and, as in the case of some of the inferior animals, it will not allow its temperature to be reduced more than two or three degrees below the freezing-point, until the powers of life are exhausted, when it congeals, and assumes the temperature of the surrounding medium. Again, animals will exist and grow in the stomach, resisting the powers of digestion as long as they live; but where, as their vitality ceases, they are immediately digested. What, then, is it that confers on animal and vegetable substances this power of resistance to the influence of external agents tending to their destruction ? The theory which Mr. Hunter maintains is, that life is a simple principle, snperadded to the common properties of matter in these bodies. “ Animal and vegetable sub-