THE TREATMENT OK AiiSCESSES. 529 powers of skin are only inferior to those of the cellular membrane, but the new cutis is different from the old, in being devoid of hairs, muciparous follicles, fat, papillae, and epidermis, and sometimes of the rete mucosum, although the three latter are certainly reproduced in many cases after a certain lapse of time. The fibrinous contractile cica- trix, which is generated in burns, is not peculiar to this tissue, but occurs occasionally in mucous and serous membranes, producing in the one set of cases the worst forms of stric- ture, and in the other a more or less complete atrophy of the organs which it envelopes. Mucous membranes. This structure, like the skin, is exposed to a variety of exter- nal influences and therefore is very subject to attacks of inflammation, which generally commence by separate ramiform patches, which extend with some degree of capricious- ness: the urethra, for example, becomes first inflamed towards the orifice, then the membranous portion or bladder, and lastly the kidneys or testicles; the intermediate continuous portions of the sound membrane not suffering. The same thing is observed of the air-passages and alimentary canal, the different portions of which become suc- cessively, but not continuously affected. The mucous membrane is at first dry, then swells, becomes intensely vascular, and often in a high degree villous, the follicles usually enlarge, and the secretion is gradually changed from a highly limpid mucus into genuine pus. There is a great difference, however, in this respect; for while some, as the urethra, secrete pus very readily and in great abundance without being prone to ulceration, others, as the intestines, are seldom found to produce this fluid without previous ulceration; while others again, as the fauces and tonsils, not unfrequentiy se- crete a peculiar modification of albumen, which, although not organizable, adheres for a considerable length of time to the free surface, and assumes the appearance of an ash- coloured or greyish slough. The bladder and colon secrete a ropy tenacious mucus, especially in chronic inflammation, while the internal membrane of the stomach and small intestines is reduced, under the same circumstances, to a soft pulpy condition, so as easily to admit of being scraped off-, or even to be removed by the natural actions of the part. Specific diseases and poisons are peculiarly apt to attack parts of this system, and at the same time to produce specific effects, as is seen in croup, dysentery, and' scurvy; but in general the prevailing tendency of this system may be stated to be, suppuration, ulceration, and mortification. Occasionally, however, there is considerable submucous infiltration either of serum or lymph, producing in the former case oede- ma, and sometimes death, when it happens to occur in the larynx, and in the latter permanent cartilaginous strictures. The regenerative powers of this tissue differ in different parts; for in the bucco-pharyngeal portions they are very considerable, while in the enteric, laryngeal, and urinary portions they are very limited. In extensive re- generations, as at the back of the pharynx, the new membrane is of a different colour from the old, and unprovided either with follicles or villi, in consequence of which it is no longer a secreting surface ; but in other cases, especially where a considerable time has elapsed, it is perfectly restored. The lining membranes of certain forms of gelati- niform encysted tumours and sinuses are the natural transition between the mucous and serous classes. Serous membranes. Inflammations of this class are characterized by their tendency to spread and to exude a great abundance of the coagulable parts of the blood ; they are also generally characterized by their acuteness, by the severe and rousing pain which they occasion, and by the great capability which the system evinces under their influence of enduring great losses of blood ; in which respect, as well as by their indisposition to take on the suppurative form, they are remarkably contra-distinguished from those of the former class. Primary ulceration and mortification of this tissue are extremely un- common ; but in certain forms of secondary inflammations, which have been before ad- verted to, it gives rise to an abundant purulent secretion. Next to the fibrous cluss, the serous tissue is most subject to metastatic inflammations, as gout, rheumatism,syphilis, &c., and in such cases many parts are often simultaneously attacked. Pathologists are divided VOL. HI. 2 M