OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 223 much so. The arteries arise from the nearest small ramifying arteries, and the corresponding veins do not terminate in the cavity of the vein to which they belong, but pass off from the body of the vein, and join some others from different parts, and at last terminate in the common trunk, some way higher. On laying open the jugular vein of a dog, and closing up the wound for some hours, and then opening it, I ob- served the vessels of this part very distinctly. They were becoming inflamed, therefore turgid, and I could easily distinguish between the arteries and veins by the colour of the blood in them. Veins have interruptions in their cavities, called valves. They are thin inelastic membranes, of an exact semilunar form, their unattached edge being cut off straight, not curved, as in those of the arteries ; and this i$ because there are only two of them whose semicircumference adheres to the sides of the vein. They are not placed in a transverse direction, so as to cut the axis of the vein perpendicularly, but obliquely, as the valves at the beginning of the arteries, making a pouch whose mouth is turned towards the heart. They are attached in pairs, the two making two pouches, whose edges come in contact. In the larger veins of many animals, as the jugular veins of a horse, &c., there are often three valves, as at the beginning of the aorta, but not so com- pletely formed. These valves, as it were, cut the veins into two at this part. These two valves are not always of equal size. At this part there are always two swellings in this form, but I believe more in the adult than in the young subject. They are not formed from a doubling of the internal coat, as has been imagined, for the internal coat is elastic, but the valves are rather of a tendinous nature; from this cir- cumstance, together with their shape and their mode of attachment to the sides of the vein, they always do their office whenever the vein is full, in the same manner as the valves of the arteries. The valves of the veins are chiefly in the extremities, jugular veins, and the veins on the exterior parts of the head, but never in the veins of the brain, heart, lungs, intestines, liver, spleen, nor kidneys. Where a smaller vein opens into a larger there is often a valvular structure at the acute angles, but this is not constant1. a [Single valves are often found to occur in veins of not more than a line in diame- ter, and occasionally also in the larger trunks; but sometimes three, four, or even five valves have been discovered where two only ordinarily exist. The valves are composed of a fibrous substance, lined by the internal membrane of the veins. Valves very rarely occur in anastomosing or azygos vessels, for obvious reasons. Generally speaking, the number of valves is increased in the same ratio as the size of the vessels is diminished; but this extends only to a certain point, for after that the inverse ratio seems to be followed, so that in the smallest veins the valves disappear altogether. Valves are uniformly most numerous in depending and superficial parts,