TIIE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 482 bringing abscesses to the surface, in the exfoliation of bone, &c., and although not accounted for upon the principle of absorption, yet the effect was visible, and its use allowed. ยง. 8. The Modes of promoting Absorption. The history that was given of the causes of absorption in some de- gree explains the modes of promoting it; but as there were some natu- ral causes which we cannot imitate, it is principally those that can be rendered useful that we are to take notice of in this place. To promote absorption of the body itself is no difficult operation : it is only to lessen the supply and increase the waste, which last is often done by medicine, or to take such things as will render the supply less efficacious, as vinegar or soap; but probably these act principally on the fat. To promote absorption of diseased parts, or parts increased, or parts newly formed is not so easy a task, although the latter may be the most easy of the whole, for I have asserted that newly formed parts are weaker in their living powers than the originally formed parts. This in some degree gives us a hint; for if we have a mode of producing a waste of the whole original body, under this general waste, new-formed parts must suffer in a degree proportional to their weakness, and therefore will suffer a diminution in the same proportion; but this is too often not sufficient, or at least what would be sufficient for the disease would be too great for the constitution to bear ; however, we find in particular cases that this practice has some effect. Probably the best debilitating medicine is mercury, and it probably may act in more ways than one. It may promote absorption from a peculiar stimulus, producing neces- sity, or a state under which the parts cannot exist. Electricity and most other stimulants probably act in the same manner, for we find that violent inflammation is often a cause. Death in a part is sure to pro- mote absorption, in order to produce a separation of the dead parts ; and 'we even find that a part being diseased gives a tendency to separation, and only requires a considerable inflammation to promote it, such as warts coming away in consequence of inflammation. A diseased part has such power of giving the proper stimulus to the adjacent sound part, that if injured, or rendered dead in part by the application of a caustic for instance, the sound part underneath will begin to relax, and show more distinctly the limits or boundaries of the disease; so that a sepa- ration of the diseased parts begins to take place, although the caustic has not reached nearly so far, and may give us an intimation of the ex- tent of the disease which we could not get before. It is in some mea-