fundamental principles of inflammation. 293 part of the body is either connected by u continuation of one part into that of another, or by simple contact. This takes place equally, either in the common cellular membrane, or in the circumscribed cavities ; for if a wound is made either into the cellular membrane, or into a circum- scribed cavity, we find that the surfaces of both, beyond the cut edges, are naturally and generally in contact with one another, for without this union by the first intention would not take place, either in cir- cumscribed cavities, or in the common cellular membrane. To explain this position, let me suppose a case. If we make a wound into the cavity of the belly, and in a sound state of those parts, we shall find that every viscus is in contact with some other viscus, and that the whole inside of the peritoneum is in contact with the viscera in general; so that no space is unfilled while this con- tact of parts remains. If this wound is not allowed to heal by the first intention, stdl we shall find that no inflammation will take place, or ex- tend further than the attachment of those parts to the cut edges, except what is owing to continued sympathy. If this was not the case, every part of the same cavity must inflame, because every part would be equally imperfect; for if this contact was removed, upon the receiving of the wound, or at any time afterwards, the whole cavity must inflame, because every part is equally under the same predicament with regard to exposure. The same tiling would take place in the common cellular membrane if those cells were not (in a natural state) in contact. In- flammation, in case of wounds, would as readily extend over the surface of each cell, as air does through the cavity of each cell when blown into it. Now this simple and natural contact of natural parts keeps off the inflammation beyond the cut edges of exposure; and inflammation only takes place at this part to preserve this contact, as also to serve as a basis for the future operations. 1 his, I apprehend, is upon the principle of contiguous sympathy, two surfaces being simply in contact, mutually agreeing not to inflame; or perhaps, more properly expressed, by being in contact there is a mu- tual harmony which prevents their being excited to inflammation. This circumstance is a reason why we should not attempt to bring circum- scribed cavities to universal suppuration, by simply opening them and allowing them to collapse; for we may be pretty certain that union only will take place at the exposed edges of contact, which excludes the ge- neral cavity, and which is the reason why the operation for the radical cure in the hydrocele often fails. If, on the other hand, this natural contact of parts did not preserve the whole beyond the cut edges, then "c must ^ow that the cavity is under the same predicament with the cut edges; and if the cut edges inflame, so must the whole.