FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 311 outlines of them here, except just to mention the particulars of the gout as an inflammation. The action of the complete gout has all the characters (while it lasts) of the true inflammation, and which may be called the inflammatory action of the gout; but it has many singularities attending it which attend no other inflammation, and which of course become some of its - specific characters. The inflammation of the gout is very different from the adhesive and suppurative in its sensation. It seldom throbs; it is a pricking, cutting, and darting pain; besides which there is a pain ’ which feels as if the inflamed parts were all moving, and in that motion ■ there is pain ; therefore the action, which is the cause of the pain, must be very different, and is most probably from the action of the vessels, not from their distention, as in the suppurative inflammation. It probably comes on more quickly than any other. Its violence is probably greater, in duration it is jnobably the most uncertain, and its going off is quicker than of any other inflammation. Its shifting from one part of the body to another is probably in some degree pecu- liar to itself, and it leaves parts in a state which no other inflammation does. Without entering further into the nature of this disease than ■ saying it is an act of the constitution, I shall describe some of its visible effects, which of course can only be observed when it falls on an exter- nal part, and when it does it is most commonly on an extremity, more especially on the lower, but sometimes on the upper, and still more commonly the extreme parts of the extremity in either the upper or the lower; and its principal seat in the extremity is a joint. When it falls on internal paits it is most commonly the stomach, which is only supposed by its effects or symptoms, from its being transferred, and from the mode of relief. It attacks also the brain, producing delirium, giddiness, the loss of the natural and accustomed feel of the body, incessant sleepiness, &c., which is also known by the abdve circumstances. When it falls on other parts, either externally or internally, it is not so much deter- mined on what part it is most apt to fall. It sometimes falls either on the lungs or muscles of respiration, the throat, testicles, urethra, pro- ducing a discharge, &c., on the anus, forming piles ; which can only be known to be gout by collateral circumstances. Why the extremities, the stomach, and brain should be similar in sus- ceptibility to take the gouty action from the constitution is not easily • accounted for. I should be inclined to suppose that its effects on the | stomach or brain are not similar to those on the extremity, or probably it does not advance so far in its effects there, because in that case it would certainly kill. Its effects on the extremities are, I believe, always more or less an inflammation, or at least it has the common visible or