THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 4 64 It becomes a substitute in many cases for mortification, which is an- other mode of the loss of substance ; and in such cases it seems to owe its taking.place of mortification to a degree of strength or vigour supe- rior to that where mortification takes place ; for although it arises often from weakness, yet it is an action, while mortification is the loss of all action. In many cases it finishes what mortification had begun, by se- parating the mortified part. These two modes of absorption, the interstitial and the progressive, are often wisely united, or perform their purposes often in the same part which is to be removed; and this may be called the mixed, which I be- lieve takes place in most cases, as in that of extraneous bodies of all kinds coming to the skin ; also in abscesses when in soft parts. It is the second kind of interstitial absorption, the progressive and the mixed, that becomes mostly the object of surgery, although the first of the in- terstitial sometimes takes place, so as to be worthy of attention. This operation of the absorption of whole parts, like many other pro- cesses in the animal ceconomy arising from disease, would often appear to be doing mischief, by destroying parts which are of service, and where no visible good appears to arise from it; for it is this process which forms a sore called an ulcer, such as in those cases where the solids are de- stroyed upon the external surface, as in old sores of the leg breaking out anew or increasing; but in all cases it must still be referred to some ne- cessary purpose; for we may depend upon it that those parts have not the power of maintaining their ground, and it becomes a substitute for mortification; and indeed in many ulcers we shall see both ulceration and mortification going on, ulceration removing those parts that have power to resist death. ยง. 1. Of the remote Cause of the Absorption of the Animal itself. The remote cause of the removal of parts of the animal appears to be of various kinds, and whatever will produce the following effects will be a cause. The most simple intention or object of nature seems to be the re- moval of a useless part, as the thymus gland, membrana pupiilaris, duc- tus arteriosus, the alveoli when the teeth drop, or the crystalline humour after couching, and probably the wasting of the body from fever, either acute or hectic. These parts are removed by the absorbents, either as useless parts, or [in the latter case] in consequence of strength being un- necessary while under disease, or such as not to accord with disease*. * it might lie asked as a question, whether the waste of the constitution in disease