GRANULATIONS. 495 and these must be such as produce universal irritation in the constitu- tion. The unsound appearances of the granulations show to what a stand the animal powers are put on such occasions, which does not appear so A’isihly in the originally-formed parts; it is therefore evident that the powers of the granulations are much weaker than those of the original parts. §. 3. Longevity of Granulations. Granulations are not only weaker in performing the natural or com- mon functions of the parts to which they belong, but they would appear often to be formed with only stated periods of life, and those much shorter than the life of the part on which they are formed. This is most remarkable in the extremities; but where they are capable of going through all their operations, as cicatrization, their life then seems to be not so limited, they are probably then acquiring new life, or longevity, every day. But while in a state of granulation we find them often dying without any visible cause. Thus a person shall have a sore upon the leg which shall granulate readily ; the granulations shall appear healthy, the skin shall be forming round the edges, and all shall be promising well, when all at once the granulations shall become livid, lose their life, and immediately slough off; or, in some cases, ulceration shall in part take place, and both together shall destroy the granulations ; and probably where ulceration wholly takes place it may be owing to the same cause. New granulations shall immediately rise as before, and go through the same process; this shall happen three or four times in the same person, and probably for ever, if some alteration in the nature of the parts be not produced. This circumstance of the difference in lon- gevity of granulations in different people, is somewhat similar to the dif- ference in longevity of different animals. In cases of short-lived granulations I have tried various modes of treat- ment, both local and constitutional, to render the life of these granula- tions longer, but without success. It would appear from what has been said of suppuration and granu- lation, that it is absolutely necessary they should take place in wounds which are not allowed to unite by the first intention, before union and cicatrization can take place. Although this in general is the case, yet in small wounds, such as considerable scratches, or where there is a piece of skin rubbed off, we find that by the blood being suffered to co- agulate upon the sore and form a scab, which is allowed to remain, the sore will only be attended by the adhesive inflammation, and will skin over without ever suppurating. Where a small caustic has been applied