426 OF TI1E SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. lx: relieved, have continued the symptoms of the disease: and the loss of a testicle, although of so small a size, when compared with many other parts which we can lose with impunity, yet from its vital connexion is more serious. We cannot bear to lose much brain. The loss of too much blood is often an attendant on, or a consequence of operations, but sometimes takes place without much violence. This produces very considerable constitutional effects; bringing on weakness, and many complaints, depending, as it were, upon debility, which are whatare commonly called nervous. I have seen a locked-jaw come on in consequence of the loss of a considerable quantity of blood, the cause of the loss being lriit trifling, and giving no symptoms whatever. The nature of the cause of inflammation produces, I believe, but little variation in the constitution, for of whatever kind it is, the symptoms in the constitution will be in all cases nearly the same, proportioned only to the violence and rapidity of its progress; and as this [viz. the suppurative] inflammation is pretty violent, more especially if it pro- duces healthy suppuration, it generally produces more violent effects upon the constitution than any other; this, however, will be in some degree according to the susceptibility of the constitution for inflamma- tion ; and if any difference takes place in the inflammation in one con- stitution from that of another, it will arise from the nature of the con- stitution, and the nature of parts and their situation, and not from the nature of the cause. The sympathy of the constitution with a local disease is what I have called universal sympathy, and is, perhaps, the most simple act of a constitution; it is the sympathy with a simple violence, as a cold, etc., but still it will vary in different constitutions, because all constitutions will not act alike under the influence of a local disease, although it will vary according to the stages of inflammation, according to the natural disposition of the parts inflamed, and according to the situation of those parts in the body ; yet it may be the most simple act of that constitution at the time, for although it would appear at the time to be an increase of the disease by its becoming universal, yet as it is a natural conse- quence it is a much better sign of health than if no fever had occurred in consequence of considerable injuries, for if there was no inflamma- tion, there would probably be little or no fever. Nature requires to feel the injury; for where, after a considerable operation, there is rather a weak quiet pulse, often with a nervous oppression, with a seeming dif- ficulty of breathing and a loathing of food, the patient is in a dangerous way. Fever shows powers of resistance; the other symptoms show weakness and sinking under the injury. This is like the effects of the cold bath; yet we sec it calling forth, or rousing up to action, some