GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 61 The globules of the blood are endowed with a number of properties. They are the only part of.the blood which has form or colour; two bodies appear of different shapes, giving the shape only of the part that is within the focus of the glass, placed upon an undefined plane; and if it should have more focal points than one then there is an increase of parts; and this will vary according to the opacity or transparency of the body. It may also be remarked that from habit our minds are informed by the necessary actions of our body; therefore the eye, taking on the necessary actions (as it were instinctively), adapting itself at once to the circum- stances of the object, gives an intelligence to the mind, independent of the real impres- sion of the object; so that both the impression and the consequent action give informa- • tion. But this cannot be effected by glasses; for the different focal distances of the hemisphere do not accord with those to which we vary our eyes in adapting them to the distances of the different parts of a rounded body. We are, therefore, left to the impression alone, which is new and consequently imperfect, the centre being too near for the circumference to be seen at one distance, and the circumference, when seen, ' bringing the centre within the focus, so as to obscure it: for an eye with a given focus which can vary it in a certain degree when viewing objects alone, yet when looking through a magnifying glass of any power must now vary the distance of the object according to the magnifying power in the glass, the eye not being able to vary the focal distance of both ; and this, probably, in an inverse degree to the magnifying power of the glass. This may be observed to take place in very short-sighted people, for in them the eye has the least variation respecting distance. A rounded body may be just of such a size as shall have either of its parts out of the focal distance of the eye, and must be moved to and fro alternately before the centre and circumference can be seen; and indeed it is only having a spherical body, of a size proportional to the length of focus, to produce the same effect in every eye. The appearances in a transparent body when viewed through a magnifying glass are still more fallacious than of an opake one : for an opake body gives only the reflected light, which however will vary according as the rays come on the object. The moon, an opake body, gives us various shapes, and therefore shows only the light and shade arising from the irregularity of the surface; but a semitransparent body, like a red globule, gives both the reflection of the light from the surface and also the refraction of other rays of lights, which vary according to the direction of the light thrown upon the object respecting our eye. In some transparent bodies we have still a greater variety, for we have both the re- flex and refracted light, and these vary according to the distance of the object from the eye or the distance of the light. If the transparent body is not perfectly round, or is by any circumstance broken in the uniformity of structure on which transparency depends, which I conceive happens to the red globules when diluted in the serum, then the different reflections and refrac- tions will give to the eye the impression of so many shapes*. * [The improvements which have been effected in the construction of microscopes by the adoption of achromatic object glasses has only partially removed the scepticism which still justly attaches to observations made with this instrument. There still exists the greatest imaginable disagreement between the statements of different microscopical observers. “ An historical detail,” Dr. Bostock observes, “ of the errors into which this instrument has led even those who have been the most skilful in its application, would have the effect of inducing us to place little confidence in hypotheses and spe- culations which are derived from objects which can only be detected by the use of high