379 'i'llE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. ing, and found that in this last bleeding the pulse increased in its fre- quency even in the time of bleeding; and within a few minutes after the bleeding was over, it had increased ten strokes in the minute*. These bleedings retarded suppuration, but by producing irritability they could not effect resolution. Where there is a disposition to form but little blood (when known), bleeding should be performed with great caution. When the inflammation is far from the source of the circulation the same precautions are necessary. In general it can be taken away from the part in such cases. But these are only so many facts, that require peculiar symptoms to ascertain them. The common indications of bleeding, besides inflammation, are too often very little to be relied upon, and I shall consider them no further than as it concerns inflammation, which will indeed throw light on other cases. The pulse is the great indication in inflammation, but not al- ways to be depended upon. In inflammations that are visible a knowledge of the kind of inflam- mation is in some degree ascertained, as has been observed; we there- fore go upon surer ground in our indications for bleeding. But all in- flammations are not visible; and it is therefore necessary to have some other criterion. However, if we could ascertain the pulse peculiar to such and such appearances in visible inflammation, and that was uni- versally the same in all such appearances, we might then suppose that we had got a true indicative criterion for our guide, and therefore apply it to invisible inflammations, so as to judge of the kind by the state of the pulse. But when we consider that the same kind of inflammation in every part of the body will not produce the same kind of pulse, but very different kinds, not according to the inflammation, but according to the nature of the parts inflamed, and those other parts also not visible, we lose at once the criterion of the pulse as a guide. When we con- sider also that there shall be every other sign or symptom of inflamma- tion in some viscus, and from the symptoms the viscus shall be well ascertained, yet the pulse shall be soft and of the common frequency; and upon bleeding, in consequence of these inflammatory symptoms, the blood shall correspond exactly with all of them, except the pulse, it shall be sizy, Arm, and cupped, as was the case in the lady, which has been before described, we shall be still further convinced that the pulse is a very inadequate criterion. If a pulse be hard, pretty full, and quick, * This, of the pulse increasing upon bleeding, is not always to be set down as a sure Mgn of irritation being an eifect; for in a sluggish pulse, arising from too much blood, the increase of stroke, and freedom given to the circulation is salutary; but when a pulse is already quick, an increase must arise from irritation.