631 SIR E. HOME’S OBSERVATIONS, ETC. OBSERVATIONS ON CERTAIN HORNY EXCRESCENCES OF THE HUMAN BODY. Br Sir Evkrard Home, Bart., from Materials furnished ay Mr. Hunter. Read February 17, 1791. [/Yom the Philosophical Transactions, Vol. LXXXI., p. 95.] XHE history of diseases belongs not properly to the province of the naturalist or philosopher; it is intimately connected with the inquiries of the physician and anatomist; but when disease becomes a cause of the formation of parts similar to others existing in nature, but rendered uncommon by novelty of situation, or produced in animals to which they are not naturally appropriated, it may be considered as having in- stituted a monstrous variety, highly deserving of attention from the naturalist. To describe such varieties is indeed more fully the office of natural history than of medicine; but the investigation of diseases which are found to subvert the ordinary laws of nature respecting the situation or production of parts in an animal body, undoubtedly belongs to the me- dical practitioner. By these considerations I have been induced to lay before the Royal Society the following account of a disease which occurs sometimes in the human body, very remarkable in its effects, but very little understood as to its cause, namely, the production of an excrescence similar to a horn. So curious a phenomenon has naturally attracted the attention of the ignorant as well as the philosopher; and the individuals who have had the misfortune to be subject to this disease have been considered as monsters. Horny excrescences arising from the human head have not only oc- curred in this country, but have been met with in several other parts of Europe ; and the horns themselves have been deposited as valuable curiosities in the first collections in Europe. In giving the history of a disease so rare in its occurrence, and in it# effects so remarkable as almost to exceed belief, it might be thought right to take some pains in bringing proofs to ascertain that such a disease doe# really exist; I consider the doing so as less necessary at present,