255 UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. comes on about the same time that the swelling of the surrounding parts begins to appear. There is reason to suppose it to be the same kind of discharge with that which causes the swelling, and which is continued through the whole course of this stage of inflammation ; for on examining the dressings of such wounds as are allowed to suppurate, several days after the wounds have been made, the lint is generally ad- hering to the surface by means of the coagulating lymph, the suppura- tion not having yet sufficiently taken place to loosen it. W lien these operations are completed in due order, the simple opera- tions of the animal are entirely confined to the part, neither the mind nor the constitution seeming in such cases to be at all affected, except that there is a feeling of tenderness in the part. But whatever these sensations may be, they arise entirely from the injury done, and not from the operation of union, unless when the suppurative inflammation comes on. 1 he inflammation often runs so high, even where the parts have been brought into contact, as to destroy, by its violence, that union which the extravasated juices were intended to produce, the consequence of " hich is suppuration at last. Is it by this excess of inflammation that the extravasated juices lose their living principle, and become as it were extraneous bodies ? or is it not possible that in these cases the inflam- mation may be the effect rather than the cause of the loss of the living principle, by the blood first losing its living principle, and inflammation arising from it as a consequence ? The time required to complete this union will be nearly the same as that required for union by the first intention, and probably less if there be no particular tendency to suppuration ; but if there be, union may be suspended some time longer, for here the uniting medium will he thrown out in larger quantity; and where the union is most easily ef- fected there is less of this medium : when two surfaces unite by inflam- mation, they are commonly in contact, or else most probably union from this cause would not so readily take place. We shall find in the de- scription of the adhesive inflammation that the union of two sides of a circumscribed cavity is very soon effected, and soon becomes strong. here is another mode of union, which, although, upon the same principle, yet differs with regard to the parts which are to be united. I have hitherto explained union as taking place only in the division corresponding parts of the same living body, but it is equally possible to unite different parts of the same, or of different bodies, by bringing them into contact under certain circumstances. There is seldom occa- sion or such practice; but accident, or rather want of attention, has in some cases been the cause of union taking place between different parts