FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. 283 I than the adipose membrane, and much more readily passes into the sup-' : purative. Whether this arises from surfaces inflaming more readily than other parts I will not pretend to say. Thus we see that the cellular membrane connecting parts together as muscles, and the cellular mem- brane connecting the adipose to muscles, easily inflames and runs rea- dily into suppuration, and as it were separates the muscles from their lateral connexion, and even separates the adipose from the muscles, while the skin and adipose membrane shall only be highly inflamed, and : the matter so formed must produce ulceration through all this adipose ; membrane to get to the skin, and then through the skin, in which last mentioned parts it is much more tedious ; ulceration therefore does not - so readily take place in those parts as it does in the common connecting membrane. Muscles, nerves, and blood-vessels are parts which nature wishes to retain, and the adipose membrane contains a substance which is properly no part of the animal, viz. oil: it may therefore be more difficult for this part to be absorbed than what are properly the parts of t the animal itself*. As a deficiency in the power to heal becomes a stimulus or an incite- ment to inflammation, we find that similar parts, in proportion as they are removed from the source of the circulation, such as the lower extre- mities, are more ready to inflame than others not so circumstanced; and what adds to this backwardness is their being depending parts, ' which adds to the incitement. The deeper-seated parts of the body, and more especially the vital. * [I believe it may be laid down generally that parts are disposed to suppurate in proportion as they are lax in structure, by which the blood-vessels are deprived of their due support and distended and ruptured with great facility. A sort of scale marking the suppurative tendency might be formed on this principle, commencing with the mu- cous membranes, and passing on through cellular membrane, adipose membrane, skin the free surfaces of serous membranes, the internal tunics of blood-vessels, the internal parenchymatous viscera, fibrous membranes, cartilage, bone, &c. The first step in the formation of an abscess seems to be the softening and breaking down of the tissues by the exudation of a mixture of serum, coagulable lymph, and blood; so that if an abscess be opened early it will be found to contain rather a grumous bloody serum, together with broken down cellular membrane, than pure pus such as would afterwards be formed; and therefore the more the natural structure of any part favours this exudation and vas- cular distension the more readily will it suppurate. This at least seems to be a nearer approach to the true proximate cause why the cellular membrane goes more easily into suppuration than muscles, nerves, and blood-vessels, than the ascription of a “ desire of nature to retain them, which at most is only the final cause allegorically expressed; nor is it even this as regards the adipose matter, which is, in truth, very easily absorbed and redeposited, as we daily witness in alternate fatness and leanness. The gradual breaking up of the pulmonary tissue in inflammation of the lungs, and conversion of it into a diffuse suppurative mass as contrasted with the other firmer viscera, stronelv fa- vour* the above view.}