GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 81 est, gentle bleeding, care to eat moderately, to keep the body open and ■ ae mind easy: and as he had got the better of former attacks (although lose were not so violent), I saw no absolute reason why he should not et the better of the present. Eight ounces of blood were taken from im that day, which relieved him. The symptoms still continuing, lough not so violently, I saw him once more; he lost about four or ve ounces more blood, which also relieved him, but still he did not get materially better. At last, as an addition to the above symptoms, he ecame yellow, his legs began to swell with water, and all his other omplaints gradually increased, which made me suspect that a deposit f water was begun in the chest. He was now attended by a physician ; vas blistered on his legs, which threatened a mortification, and a caustic vas applied to the pit of his stomach (I suppose for a pain there) : na- ure was at last worn out, and he died. I solicited to open him, and vas allowed. On opening the belly there was found in the abdomen a very small uantity of bloody yellowish serum. Every viscus appeared to be sound ; he gall-bladder was pretty full of bile, which was thick, but not ropy, • s if the thinner parts had been strained off; the ducts were clear, both o and from the gall-bladder. Upon opening the chest the lungs did ,ot collapse, being a good deal oedematous, but otherwise appearing ound ; there was also a little bloody serum in both sides of the chest: hese I conceive were the consequences of the last attack. The heart vas very large, and very full of blood. Upon opening the right side of he heart, I found nothing uncommon either in the heart or the pulmo- nary artery. Upon opening the left side, I found the valves of the .orta thicker and harder than usual, having at the same time the appear- ,nce of being very much shrivelled. This diseased structure of the alves accounts for every one of what may be called his original sym- itoms, and was such as to render them of very little use; the blood, herefore, must have fallen back into the cavity of the ventricle again ,t every systole of the artery. Whether this shrivelled state of the valves of the aorta was a natural ormation, or a disease, is not easily ascertained ; but if it was a disease, t must have begun much earlier in life than such diseases commonly to, as the symptoms appeared when he was young*. From this con- traction of valve we must see that it required the greatest quiet to -How the motions of the blood from the left side of the heart to go on ufficiently, and that whatever interrupted this produced a stagnation, >r an accumulation of the blood almost in every part of the body; first, n the left ventricle, then the left auricle; pulmonary veins, pulmonary * 1 have seen it at a very early period. VOL. Ill, G