84 GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. passage, was found communicating with both ventricles, situated in an oblique direction near the basis of the heart, so large as to admit the end of the finger from the aorta with equal facility into either ventricle, the septum of the ventricle appearing to terminate with this canal. On examining the entrance of the pulmonary artery within the ventricle, it was judged that this entrance was much smaller, and more firm than common.” It is difficult here to say what would be the exact effect of this communication on the motion of the two bloods; that is, whether the blood of the right side was received into the left, or vice versd; if the oblique direction of this passage had been further described, it might have explained this doubt; for if the passage was direct, the blood would most probably pass from the left to the right, as the left ventricle acquires the greatest strength: the word oblique, however, and the expression, that the finger, from the aorta, passed with equal facility into either ventricle, would make us suppose that the obliquity led out of the right ventricle into the aorta; but, even with this obliquity, I should not think it probable that the blood would pass from the right to the left, because the left acts with so much more force : the description leaves us to account for the defect in respiration another way. If the blood passed from the right to the left, then it would have had the same effect as the canalis arteriosus, and probably was the only one in the foetus. In this case too little blood would pass through the lungs; but I do not conceive that this circumstance would affect respiration, because no stagnation would take place in the lungs; but if the blood got from the left to the right, then too much blood would be sent to the lungs, as it would be found to take its course twice. On the other hand, if the lungs be not capable of allowing a full distension equal to the actions of the heart, though naturally framed, the same thing takes place. In na- t ural deaths the pulsation of the heart commonly stops before breathing ceases ; but in deaths arising from a stoppage of breath, such as hanging or drowning, the reverse must take place; and in such we shall always find dark blood in the left side, which plainly took place in the experi- riment above mentioned. It may be supposed that in the lungs the blood cannot come in con- tact with the air ; but the circumstances above related, that the florid colour will extend some depths into the blood, shows that the effect of air can and does pervade animal matter. Not attending to this fact at first, I covered the mouths of vessels filled with venal blood with gold- beaters’ skin, touching the surface of the blood, and the blood constantly became of a florid red on the surface, and even for some depth. I put some dark venal blood into a phial, till it was about half full,