GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 119 This blood, so extravasated, either forms vessels in itself, or vessels -shoot out from the original surface of contact into it, forming an elon- gation of themselves, as we have reason to suppose they do in granula- tions. I have reason, however, to believe that the coagulum has the power, under necessary circumstances, to form vessels in and of itself; for I have already observed, that coagulation, although not organic, is still of a peculiar form, structure, or arrangement, so as to take on ne- cessary action, which I should suppose is somewhat similar to muscular action. I think I have been able to inject what I suspected to be the beginning of a vascular formation in a coagulum, when it could not de- rive any vessels from the surrounding parts. By injecting the crural artery of a stump, above the knee, where there was a small pyramidal coagulum, I have filled this coagulum with my injection, as if it had 5 been cellular; but there was no regular structure of vessels. When I compare this appearance with that of many violent inflammations on surfaces where the red blood is extravasated, forming, as it were, specks of extravasation like stars, and which, when injected, produce the same ' appearance with what I have described in the injection of the coagu- lum ; when I compare these again with the progress of vascularity in t the membranes of the chick ; where one can perceive a zone of specks beyond the surface of regular vessels close to the chick, similar to the above extravasation, and which in a few hours become vascular, I con- ceive that these parts have a power of forming vessels within themselves, all of them acting upon the same principle. But where this coagulum can form an immediate union with the surrounding parts, it either re- ceives vessels at this surface, or forms vessels first at this union, which communicate with those of the surrounding surface; and they either shoot deeper and deeper, or form vessels deeper and deeper, in the coa- gulum, till they all meet in its centre. If it is by the first mode, viz. the shooting of vessels from the surrounding surfaces into the coagulum, ' then it may be the ruptured vessels, in cases of accident, which shoot into the coagulum; and where a coagulum, or extravasation of coagu- lable lymph, is thrown in between two [sound] surfaces only contiguous, there it may be the exhaling vessels of those surfaces which now become the vessels of the part. In whatever way they meet in the centre, they instantly embrace, unite, or inosculate. Now this is all perfectly and easily conceived among living parts, but not otherwise. As the coagulum, whether wholly blood or coagulating lymph alone, has the materia vitae in its composition, which is the cause of all the above actions, it soon opens a communication with the mind, forming within itself nerves. Nerves have not the power of forming themselves into longer chords, as we conceive vessels to have; for we know that