GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF T1IE BLOOD. 14 Concerning natural objects, we usually acquire a gross knowledge, from the frequency with which they are observed, and it often requires little more than common attention to have a tolerable conception of their general principles. This is the case with the blood. Blood is known to be of a red colour in a great number of animals, and to be altogether a fluid while circulating in the living body. It is known to separate into parts when out of the body, and a portion of it to become solid; it is likewise known, that when deprived of a certain proportion of it, an animal dies ; it has, therefore, been held in particu- lar veneration, as constituting the life of the animal. Like other things which are discovered to be of great use, the blood has frequently at- tracted the attention of mankind as an object of curiosity only, from which some have proceeded to a more critical inquiry' into its nature and properties, and to a more extensive elucidation of the subject at large. To this practitioners in physic have a great deal contributed, from a conviction that this knowledge would be of much use to them in their profession ; and the teachers of the art have been still more industrious had been previously resorted to or not. Sheep’s blood restored cats and rabbits for a few days from the exhaustion consequent on excessive hemorrhage ; but it excited rapid and violent convulsions, followed by speedy death, when it was injected into ducks. These experiments, therefore, sufficiently demonstrated the danger attending the trans- fusion of large quantities of blood from an animal of one species into another animal of a different species. Smaller quantities, indeed, were proved not to be dangerous to life, although unpleasant effects generally followed. Thus Mr. Goodridge, of Barbadoes, has lately injected human blood into the veins of a dog, and the animal afterwards survived. Dr. Blundell, to whom the profession is indebted for every practical advantage at- tending this operation, carefully repeated the experiments above mentioned previously to his performing the operation on the human subject. With human blood he nourished a full-grown dog for three weeks by this means alone, and succeeded in reviving another by similar means after it had ceased to respire for full five minutes. In order to prove that the contact of the blood with foreign substances does not deprive it of vitality, or materially deteriorate its qualities, he connected, by means of a syringe, the carotid ar- tery and jugular vein of the same animal, and continued to impel the blood from the artery into the vein for twenty or thirty minutes, until the whole blood of the animal must have passed through the apparatus. (Med.-Chir. Trans., ix. 56. and x. 296.) In order that the operation may be successfully performed, it is necessary to be ex- ceedingly careful to exclude the ingress of air or clots of blood, and to proceed in so gradual a manner as not to endanger a sudden plethora. With these cautions, trans- fusion may be regarded as a valuable auxiliary means in the hands of the surgeon, particularly in the treatment of flooding or alarming haemorrhages from other causes. I may mention that it has succeeded in several cases of this kind where little or no hope could have been entertaiued from any other resources. It is unnecessary to add, that the blood should always be taken from a healthy hu- man subject, and be allowed to stagnate in the apparatus as little as possible. (See VoL I. p. 551, where Hunter appears to have appreciated the value of this means of recovery in the only cases in which it is applicable. The idea of transfusing of human blood does not seem to have occurred to him.)]