OF THE SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION. 415 there is any) should have been removed by the operation; and should therefore be a wound in the sound part, as after an amputation of a scrofulous joint, or the extirpation of a cancerous breast. Or if they take on some specific disposition afterwards, then they must be dressed accordingly, as will be explained hereafter. Poultices are commonly made too thin, by which means the least pressure, or their own gravity, removes them from the wound; they should be thick enough to support a certain form when applied. They are generally made of stale bread and milk; this composition, in general, makes a too brittle application; it breaks easily into different portions from the least motion, and often leaves some part of the wound un- covered, which is frustrating the first intention. The poultice which makes the best application, and continues most nearly the same between each dressing, is that formed of the meal of linseed; it is made at once*, and when applied it keeps always in one mass. Fomentations are ge- nerally applied at this stage of the wound, and they generally give ease at the time of application, which has (joined with custom) been always a sufficient inducement to continue them. As soon as suppuration is well established, the part may then be dressed according to the appear- ances of the sore itself. The kind of wound to which the above application is best adapted, is a wound made in a sound part which we intend shall heal by granulation. The same application is equally proper where parts are deprived of life, and consequently will slough. It is therefore the very best dressing for a gunshot wound, and probably for most lacerated wounds. For lint applied to a part that is to throw off a slough will often be retained till that slough is separated, which will be for eight, ten, or more days. In the treatment of wounds that are to suppurate, it is in one view of the subject right to allow the parts to take their natural and sponta- neous bent. From the natural elasticity of the skin, and the contrac- tion of muscles, the parts wounded are generally exposed, and from the consequent inflammation they generally become more so. This is com- monly more the case in wounds produced by accident; for [in opera- tions,] as a small wound and much old skin are always desirable, sur- geons very wisely are anxious to wish for both. In many operations they are desirous of preserving the skin, viz. where they are removing parts, as a limb, dissecting out tumours, or opening an abscess; all of which is extremely proper, and they continue to practice upon this principle immediately upon the receiving the wound, and in performing Take boiling water q. s. and stir in the linseed till it becomes of a sufficient thick- ness, and then add a small quantity of some sweet oil.