INTRODUCTION. 5 Does not the cure of some diseases depend upon the same principle ? —as, e.g., the suspension or cure of a gonorrhoea by a fever. Let me illustrate this principle still further by one of many cases which have come under my own observation. On Thursday, the lGth May, 1775, I inoculated a gentleman’s child, and it was observed that I made pretty large punctures. On the Sunday following, viz. the 19th, he appeared to have received the infection, a small inflammation or redness appearing round each puncture, and a small tumour. On the 20th and 21st, the child was feverish ; but I declared that it was not the variolous fever, as the inflammation had not at all advanced since the 19th. On the 22nd, a considerable eruption appeared, which was evidently the measles, and the sores on the arms appeared to go back, becoming less inflamed. On the 23rd he was very full of the measles; but the punctures on the arms were in the same state as on the preceding day. On the 25th the measles began to disappear. On the 26th and 27th the punctures began again to look a little red. On the 29th the inflammation in- creased, and there w'as a little matter formed. On the 30th he was seized with fever. The smallpox appeared at the regular time, w'ent through its usual course, and terminated favourably1 * 3. 1 [In our ignorance of the essential nature of diseases, the principle which is here laid down may be considered perhaps as too absolutely expressed. The disposition and appearances of specific diseases are unquestionably greatly modified by the existence of peculiar states of the constitution at the time, as of scrofula, gout, rheumatism, &c., and this in so striking a manner as to render the distinction between a modified and a con- joint disease almost invisible. Thus the affections which result from the abuse of mer- cury on a constitution affected with syphilis are suigeneris, and cannot be produced by either of these poisons acting separately. Thus also the phenomena of smallpox and cowpox present many peculiarities which are scarcely reconcileable upon the doctrines laid down by our author. Dr. Willan, for example, found “ that when a person was inoculated with vaccine and variolous matter about the same time, (that is, not exceed- ing a week,) both inoculations proved effective, for the vaccine vesicle proceeded to its acme in its usual number of days, and the maturation of the variolous pustule was at- tended by a variolous eruption on the skin.” (On Vaccine Inoculation, p. 1.) Dr. Wood- ville also has said, “ that if the cowpox matter and the smallpox matter be both inserted in the arm of a patient, even within an inch of each other, so that on the ninth day the same efflorescence becomes common to both the local affections, nevertheless inocu- lating from the cowpox tumour the genuine vaccine disease will be produced,” (Observa- tions on the Cowpox, p. 12.); but if the inoculation be performed with a mixture of the two matters, then the chance is equal that smallpox or cowpox will be the result, or the vari- oloid disease, either one of which is capable of conferring an immunity on the patient so affected. Here, therefore, are two diseases acknowledged to be distinct and consti- tutional, not only coexistent in the system at the same time, but (from the blending of the areolar inflammations) apparently in the same part. These phenomena are pro- bably as uncommon in disease as the hybridous productions of the animal and vege- table world in reference to the usual course of generation. Of the latter there is no question, and I do not perceive any antecedent presumption against the occurrence of the former.]