274 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF INFLAMMATION. young cocks. I found that those which took root grew nearly as fast, and to as large a size as the natural spur on the other leg, which ap- peared to be a contradiction to my other experiments. Upon another examination of my hens, however, I found that the spurs had grown, considerably, although they had taken several years to do it; for I found that the same quantity of growth in the spur of a cock, while on the cock, during one year, was as much as that of the cock’s spur on the hen in the course of three or four years, or as three or four to one; whereas the growth of the hen’s spur on the cock was to that of the proper spur of the cock as [one to two?] two to one. These experiments show that there is an inequality of powers in dif- ferent parts of the same animal, and that the legs have much less than the comb; they also show that there is a material difference in the powers of the male and the female. The spurs of a cock were found to possess powers beyond those of a hen, while at the same time, the one animal as a whole has more powers than the other; yet when I ap- ply these principles to the powers of cure in local diseases of the two sexes in the human race, 1 can hardly say that I have observed any difference. It is to be observed, however, that women commonly live a much more temperate life than men, which certainly must have considerable in- fluence both with regard to resisting and curing diseases. In all complicated animals, among which man is the most complex, the parts are composed of different structures, and we find that in such animals the powers of action of those different structures within them- selves are very different; when they are therefore excited to any com- mon action, the varieties produced should be well known and particu- larly attended to. Besides, every similar structure in different animals does not always act in the same manner. Thus we cannot make a horse vomit; nor can we give many specific diseases which attack the human subject to any other animal, more particularly the morbid poisons. The mode therefore of action in one animal does not implicitly direct to the mode of action in another; nor does the same structure in the same animal always act in the same way at all times : it acts at various times in a way similar to the same structure in various animals; and, besides, the same structure varies its action in different situations in the same animal. Besides, the exterior actions of life make a very ma- terial difference in the internal actions of animals, or in the excitement of disease, either universally or locally; for there are parts which can- not bear one mode of lif , while there are other parts which cannot bear another,—parts and mode of life being in opposition with each other. A great many of these varieties depend upon the difference in the na- tural strength and weakness of the parts; but as those vary very con-