GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. Hl2 pearance, would seem a little extraordinary, when we consider that a part, or the whole', are completely formed in themselves, and have their nerves going to them, which are supposed to give animal life; yet that perfect living part, or whole, shall die in a little time, by simply pre- venting the blood from moving through the vessels : under this idea, it is not clear to me whether the blood dies sooner without the body, or the body without the blood. Life, then, is preserved by the compound of the two, and an animal is not perfect without the blood: but this alone is not sufficient, for the blood itself must be kept alive; because while it is supporting life in the solids, it is either losing its own, or is rendered incapable of supporting that of the body. To accomplish all this it must have motion, and that in a circle, as it is a continuance of the same blood which circulates, in which circle it is in one view su- persaturated, as it were, with living powers, and in another is deficient, having parted with them while it visited the different parts of the body. Life is in some degree, in proportion to this motion, either stronger or weaker, so that the motion of the blood may be reckoned, in some de- gree, a first moving power ; and not only is the blood alive in itself, but seems to carry life everywhere; however, it is not simply the motion, but it is that which arises out of, or in consequence of the motion. Here, then, would appear to be three parts, viz. body, blood, and motion, which latter preserves the living union between the other two, or the life in both. These three make up a complete body, out of which arises a principle of self-motion, a motion totally spent upon the machine, or which may be said to move in a circle, for the support of the whole; for the body dies without the motion of the blood upon it, and the blood dies without the motion of the body upon it; perhaps pretty nearly in equal times. So far, I have considered the blood when compounded with the body and motion, in which we find it preserves its fluidity, and continues life in the body; but fluidity is only necessary for its motion to convey life, and the continuance of life is probably owing to its being coagulated, and becoming a solid; or at least the support of the body is owing to this cause. For this, however, it requires rest, either by extravasation, or by being retained in the vessels till the utility of circulating is lost; result of “ body, blood, and motion.’’ 1 apprehend, however, the real line of argument to be, to prove that the blood and the solids possess life independently of each other,—not to make it the result of a compound of the two. It might be, and has been, with full as much propriety argued that the life of the blood is derived from the vessels, as that the life of the body is derived from the blood, for neither can continue without the other. The life of the blood is soon lost out of the body, and the body soon dies without the blood; nevertheless, a residual and independent vitality seems to reside in both for a limited space after they are separated from each other.]