UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. 267 When the wound, or the dead part, is considerable, it is probable the treatment will in general be very proper; because the degree of mis- chief calling up the attention of the surgeon, and producing acquiescence in the patient, he will be induced to submit to whatever may be thought necessary. The best application, at first, will probably be a poultice, ■which should be either simple or medicated, according to the nature of the succeeding inflammation, and continued either till the inflammation has subsided and suppuration come on, sufficient to keep the parts moist, or till the slough has entirely separated, when the sore may be dressed ac- cording to its particular disposition. But such accidents as have a super- ficial part killed (when the slough would readily separate and the parts suppurate kindly) are often treated improperly at first, by the patients themselves applying f riar s balsam, or some such medicines; but these not being within the power of scabbing, inflammation comes on and alarms the patient. A poultice is then commonly applied, which re- moves the first dressing, and the slough appears, which gives a disagree- able appearance to the wound, and it is supposed to be a foul sore. From such an idea various methods are employed, and the application of red precipitate, &c. but with no good effect, and the patient becomes fretted from a sore apparently so trifling being so difficult to heal; but it is impossible that such a sore can heal while there is a slough to separate. It is therefore the surgeon s business to inform himself of the nature of the complaint, to explain it to his patient, who will then become better satisfied, and less uneasy about his own situation. When this piece of slough comes away, the sore will put on an appearance according to the nature of the constitution or of the part, and is to be treated accord- ingly\ * [According to the modern views the modes of union above detailed are always ac- companied by adhesive inflammation, and should therefore have followed the ensuing chapter “ on the fundamental principles of inflammation.” The parts are united, not by the extravasated blood becoming vascular, but by the effusion and organization of coagu- lable lymph. There are two principal objections to the doctrine as laid down by Hunter and supported by some modern physiologists: the first of which is that it assigns two distinct causes for the production of the same phenomenon; and the second that there is an absolute deficiency of direct proof of the organization of the coaguluin, notwith- slanding the frequency of hamorrhagic effusions and die easy manner in which this question may be brought to the test of experiment. 1. There seems not the slightest reason for believing that the mechanism essentially differs by which naturally contiguous parts morbidly adhere and that by which artifi- cially divided parts unite from a principle of coiiservadon, and yet all the phenomena o a lesion in disease uniformly point to the presence of inflammation and the effusion o coagulable lymph. Mr. Hunter indeed freely admits that blood is not necessary to union, but is only one of two modes, at the same time that he considers the coagulable ymph which is poured out in adhesive inflammation as different from the coagulable