OF THE TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 565 was evident, for they afterwards made three holes in the wainscot be- hind him, but two very near one another1 11. The balls entered upon the left side of the navel, one a little further out than the other, and they came out behind, pretty near the spinal processes, about the superior vertebrae of the loins. From the closeness of the gun to the man when fired, which of course made its contents pass with great velocity, as also from the direction of the innermost ball, which we supposed to be the double one, we were pretty certain that it had penetrated the cavity of the abdomen, but could not be so certain of the course of the other. I he first water he made after the accident was bloody, from which we knew the kidney was wounded ; but that symptom soon left him. He had no blood in his stools, from which we concluded that none of the intestines were wounded; and no symptoms of extravasation of the con- tents of any viscus taking place, such as the symptoms of inflammation of the peritoneum, we were still more confirmed in our opinion. The symptomatic fever did not run higher than could have been ex- pected, nor was there more pain in the track of the ball than might be imagined. These cousequent symptoms of the immediate injury abated as soon as could be expected, and in less than a fortnight I pronounced him out of danger from the wound; for no immediate secondary symptoms having taken place, I concluded that whatever cavities the balls had entered, there the surrounding parts had adhered, so that the passage of the ball was by this means become a complete canal; and therefore, that neither any extraneous bodies that had been carried in with the balls, and had not been carried through, nor any slough that might separate from the sides of the canal, nor the matter formed in it, could now get into the cavity of the abdomen, but must be conducted to the external surface of the body, either through the wounds, or from an abscess forming for itself, which would work its own exit somewhere. But this conclusion was supposed to be too hasty, and soon after a new symptom arose, which alarmed those who did not see the propriety of my reasoning; which was some faeces coming through the wound : this new symptom did not alter my opinion respecting the whole ope- rations of Nature to secure the cavity of the abdomen, but it confirmed it (if a further confirmation had been necessary), and therefore I con- ceived it could not affect life ; but as I saw the possibility of this wound becoming an artificial anus, I was sorry for it. It was not difficult to 1 [Balls impinging on a sharp edge of bone have in two, and to take different courses in the body.] sometimes been known to be cut