OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 205 injected from the ventricle, as in the left side. So far as respects in- jections, the same observations are applicable to the valvulae tricus- pides; therefore I believe the valves of the right side of the heart are not so perfect as those of the left; and from hence we may suppose that the universal circulation requires to be more perfect than that through the lungs. We must see from this account of the action of the valves, that the mouths of the coronary arteries are opened by the action of the heart; for as the arteries dilate, they become more and more exposed. ยง. 8. Of the Division, or Branching, of Arteries. As all the arteries in animals possessed of a heart arise from or begin at that heart by one or two trunks only, they are obliged to divide into or send off branches or smaller trunks, which again divide into still smaller, till at last the whole body is supplied by the ultimate divisions. This is called the branching or ramification of arteries, and is somewhat similar to the branching of a tree. This branching of an artery does not depend on the artery itself, or on the powers propelling the blood, as in a tree, but is governed by the formation of the body; that is, ac- cording as a greater or less quantity of blood, or a greater or less velo- city is necessary to different parts. Various modes of branching are made use of to answer the above purposes. In general the most favourable mode for the free passage of the blood is adopted, viz. branching with acute angles, more especially those which are to carry the blood some considerable way; and still more so in those which are at a great distance from the propelling im- pulse of the heart, which I shall now more particularly consider. As the force of the blood in the artery is stronger the nearer it is to the heart, the difference in the velocity of the blood, near and at a di- stance from the heart, if there was nothing to retard it, would be too great for the difference in parts; the near and the distant parts being in many instances of the same kind. To keep up a velocity sufficient for the parts, and no more, nature has varied the angle of the origin of arteries, at different distances from the source of the circulation. Thus we find that near the heart the arteries arise by obtuse angles; some of them being reflected, and the angles become less and less, till at length they are very sharp. The most remarkable instances of this are the in- tercostal and lumbar arteries : for these being a set of branches whose length and uses in the body are nearly the same, the difference is made in the greater obtuseness of the angles at which they arise in proportion