THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. 360 course to in our inquiries into its nature; but alone it is not always a certain guide, for where there arc peculiarities of constitution we find the pulse corresponding to those peculiarities, and perhaps in direct contradiction to the accustomed state of the local affection. The same parts, too, under disease, give very irregular or uncertain signs in the actions of the heart and vessels, such as diseases or injuries done to the brain. 1 he varieties which the pulse admits of are several. It is increased in its number of strokes, or it is diminished; it is regular or irregular, as to time, in its strokes; it is quick in its stroke or diastole, and slow in its systole; it is hard in its diastole, and it vibrates in its diastole. In most cases, probably, where the constitution is in a state of irritation, the pulse will be quick and frequent in its number of strokes in a given time, and the artery will become hard from a constant or spasmodic contraction of its muscular coats, so as to give the feel of hardness to the touch ; besides which, the diastole of the artery is not regularly uni- form and smooth, but proceeds by a vast number of stops or interrup- tions, which are so quick as to give the feel of a vibration, or what we would express by a thrill. The pulse, under such a disposition or mode of action, may be either full or small. These two very opjrosite effects do not seem to arise from a difference } in the quantity of blood, which might at first be supposed; I should rather suspect that they arise from a difference in the degrees of strength; ' which will be more or less, according to the nature of the parts inflamed, ■ and the degree of irritability of the patient at the time. These give, more or less, an anti-diastolic disposition to the arteries; and while the 1 arteries have the power of contraction, and are in a state of irritation, i this effect will always take place. It is certain, at least, that the arte- ries do not commonly, in such a state of constitution, dilate so freely and so fully as at other times ; and as this will vary very quickly (if the constitutional irritation varies quickly), it is more reasonable to suppose that it is an immediate effect of the arteries, than on increase and de- crease of the quantity of blood. If this be really the case, then we should naturally suppose that the motion of the blood in the arteries would be increased in proportion to their diminished size; except we should also suppose that the diastole, 1 or the systole or contraction of the heart, is also diminished in the same f proportion. The first of these, I think, may probably be the case, as we find that the blood forsakes the surface of the body in such a state j of the constitution, as will hereafter be observed, and therefore must be collected in the larger veins about the heart. If the heart was to dilate [a.- usual] and throw out its whole contents at each systole, then the