THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. 485 been opened, but are so situated or circumstanced as to have some part of the abscess on that side immediately under the skin pressed by some other part of the body which lies underneath. For instance, when a large abscess forms on the outer and upper part of the thigh, oppo- site the great trochanter, which is a very common complaint, and an opening is made into it, or it bursts below or on the side of that bone, but not directly opposite to the trochanter itself, in such cases it fre- quently happens that the pressure of the trochanter on the inside of the abscess, viz. the cellular and adipose membrane and the skin covering the trochanter, that this pressure produces ulceration of these parts; which process is continued on through the skin, and makes a second opening directly upon the trochanter. It is curious to remark how these processes of nature fulfil their ap- pointed purposes, and go on no further; for any young flesh, or granu- lations, which may have formed, upon the trochanter, which very often happens before this ulceration is completed, yet these do not ulcerate, although the pressure was as great or greater upon them than it was upon the parts which gave way. This is upon the principle that pressure from without hits not the same effect as from within. rIhe fistula laehrymalis is another strong proof of ulceration only taking place towards the external surface, and securing the deeper-seated parts; as also the ulceration in consequence of matter in the frontal sinuses. An effect of the same kind we have observed in milk-breasts. In these cases the suppuration commonly begins in many distinct portions of the inflamed parts, so that it is not one large circumscribed abscess, but many separate sinuses are formed, all of which generally communi- cate : now it usually happens, that only one of these points externally; which being either opened or allowed to break, the whole of the matter is to be discharged this way ; but it frequently happens that the matter does not find a ready outlet by this opening, and then one or more of these different sinuses make distinct openings for themselves; which shows how very easily the slight pressure of such a trifling confinement of matter can produce the ulcerative inflammation. Ulceration is there- fore no more than an operation of nature to remove parts out of the way of all such pressure as the parts cannot support; and accordingly it begins where the greatest pressure is felt, joined with the nature°of the pints and its vicinity to the skin. It is curious to observe that the ulcerative process has no power over the cuticle, so that when the matter has got to that part it stops, and cannot make its way through till the cuticle bursts by distention ; but