176 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. The heart may be considered as a truly mechanical engine; for al- though muscles are the powers in an animal, yet these powers are them- selves often converted into a machine, of which the heart is a strong instance; for from the disposition of its muscular fibres, tendons, liga- ments, and valves, it is adapted to mechanical purposes; and this con- struction makes it a complete organ or machine in itself. It is most probable that by means of this viscus a quicker supply of blood is fur- nished than otherwise could be effected. In birds and quadrupeds, the heart, by its action, first throws out the blood, both that which is fit for the purposes of life, and that which requires to be prepared, the last having lost those salutary powers in the growth, repairs, secretion, etc. in the machine. It may be said to give the first impulse to the blood, producing a greater velocity where the blood is simply conveyed to the parts for whose use it is destined. This velocity is alternately greater and less, and from the construction of the arteries alone, is gradually diminished, becoming more uniform where slowness and evenness of motion is ne- cessary. This velocity of the blood in those parts where it is to be con- sidered as passing only, allowTs a much larger quantity to flow through the part to which it is destined than otherwise could be transmitted. The heart is placed in the vascular system, to be ready to receive the blood from the body, and to propel it back on the body again, although not in the centre of the whole; but it is reasonable to suppose that its situation is such as to be best suited to the various parts of the body; some parts requiring a brisk, others a more languid circulation. Some also require a greater supply of blood than others. We may suppose that the parts near the heart will receive more blood than those at a greater distance, because the resistance will be less if the vessels are of equal size in proportion to the size of the part. The situation of the heart in the body varies in different animals. One would imagine when the animal was divided into its several por- tions, appropriated for the different purposes, that the situation of the heart would be nearly'the same in all; but we find this not to be the case; its situation depends upon the organs of respiration more than any other part. It is placed in what is called the chest in the qua- druped, bird, amphibia, fish, and in the aquatic and terrestrial insect: but not in what may be called the chest in the flying insect. The chest in the aquatic insect seems best suited to contain the lungs and branchiae, and therefore the heart is placed there; but as the lungs of the flying insect are placed through the whole body, the heart is more diffused, extending through the whole length of the animal. The situ-