340 THE ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION; dowii and roll, becoming as restless as horses when griped. The next morning, Friday, the thermometer was introduced into the vagina, and the mercury stood at 99-y0, nearly the same heat as before the experi- ment; in the evening, 101^°. Saturday morning, IOO40; evening, 100q°. Ihe vagina, therefore, was not rendered hotter by an inflammation which produced what we may call the sympathetic fever. The animal was now killed, and on examining tlie abdomen, the side where the wound was made appeared much inflamed, as well as the intestine op- posite to this part. All of them adhered together, and the intestines surrounding this part of the adhesions had their peritoneal coat become extremely vascular, and matter was formed in the abdomen. But that the heat of a part can be increased above tlte common stand- ard of a healthy person is certain, when it is such a part as is naturally of the standard heat, as, for instance, the abdomen. For in Lord Hert- ford s servant, who was tapped eight times, and seven of them in thir- teen weeks, the seventh time I held the ball of a thermometer in the stream, as it flowed from the canula of the trocar, and it raised the mercury to 101° exactly, through the whole time. Twelve days after 1 tapped him the eighth time; the water was pretty clear: when I held the thermometer in the stream it rose to 104°. Now as the heat of the abdomen was 104°, wre must, I think, suppose that the general heat of the man would also be 104°. Experiments on Secreting Surfaces. Experiment I. I took the degree of heat of a dog’s rectum, by in- troducing the thermometer about three inches; and when it was ascer- tained, four grains of corrosive sublimate were dissolved in two ounces of water, and the solution thrown up the rectum. The day following the thermometer was again introduced, and then I found the heat some- what increased, but not quite a degree. As far as one might judge from external appearances, the rectum was very much inflamed, as there was a considerable external swelling, forming a thick elevated ring round the anus. Experiment II. I introduced into the rectum of an ass the thermo- meter, and the mercury rose to 9S-J° exactly: this was repeated several times with the same result. I then threw up the rectum an injection of flour of mustard and ginger, mixed in about a pint of water. About twelve hours after I introduced the thermometer, and it rose to 99|°. The injection was repeated several times, but the heat did not increase. Experiment III. To irritate the rectum still more, I threw up a so-