220 OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. at different distances from the heart, I conceive there is a material differ- ence between the velocities of the blood in those vessels which carry red blood, and those which carry only the coagulable lymph and the serum ; for where the red blood goes, there is a quicker return than where there is only the coagulable lymph and serum. For this there are two reasons, viz. that where the red blood passes, it is commonly nearer to the heart, while the other parts go to a greater distance: but besides this, the vessels which carry the red blood are larger, and, I believe, ramify more quickly ; the velocity, therefore, of the blood is greater in them. Where the lymph and serum pass only, the velocity of the blood is languid, and it appears merely to carry nourishment, such as in tendons, liga- ments, etc. So far we are to consider the above as a general principle arising out of the construction of a blood-vessel; but there are secondary or col- lateral circumstances acting, so as to accelerate or retard the blood's motion. Since the solids and fluids have a mutual dependence on each other, and since the solids answer various purposes, for which quantity, velo- city, etc. are peculiarly necessary, we find that this intercourse between the two is with great exactness kept up. I have already observed that the angles at which the branches of an artery arise, either retard or al- low of a freer motion in the blood; but Nature appears to have taken still more care in retarding the blood’s motion where velocity might do mischief. She seems also to have taken more care about the blood’s motion in some parts than in others; as, for example, in the brain, a part which probably cannot bear the same irregularity, in quantity or velocity of the blood, as many other parts of the body. I should sup- pose, that by sending four arteries to the brain, instead of one, or which would have been more regular, two, the force of the motion of the blood is broken, as well as by the winding course of the internal caro- tid arteries. The tortuosity of the vertebral arteries, likewise, are in- tended, we may suppose, to prevent a too great velocity of the blood, both because these arteries are longer than they need be, and the blood is hindered from moving in a straight line: but, besides the serpentine course of the arteries of the head, they pass through a bone (but princi- pally the carotids), where the bony canal is closely applied to the coats of the artery ; so that there can be no pulsation here, but a greater velocity of the blood in those parts, and probably less in the brain. This 1 should suppose retards also the motion of the blood in the brain, be- cause the blood, passing through a smaller place than common, must meet with a greater resistance, and therefore a smaller quantity must pass through this part in a given time, so that the pulsation of the arte-