502 OF SKINNING. when under the distention of a hydrocele, and which sometimes happens where a caustic has proved ineffectual: we then find the new skin as extensive as in any other parts equally distended. The same thing takes place in white swellings of the joint of the knee ; for if a sore is made upon such a part, as is frequently done by the application of caustics, we find that the new skin is nearly of the same size as the original sore. The general principle is also very observable after amputations of the limbs : for if much old skin has been saved, we find the cicatrix small; while, on the other hand, if such care has not been taken, the cicatrix is proportionably large. The new skin is at first commonly on the same level with the old, and if there has not been much loss of substance, or the disease is not very deep-seated, it continues its position; but this does not appear to be the case with scalds and burns, for they frequently heal with a cicatrix higher than the skin, although the granulations have been kept even with the skin. It would appear in these cases that a tumefaction of the parts, which were the granulations, takes place after cicatrization. Sometimes granulations cicatrize while higher than the common sur- rounding skin, but then they are such as have been long in that position, as is the case in some issues. I have seen the granulations surrounding a pea rise considerably above the skin, near half-a-crown in breadth, and skin over, ;dl but the hole in which the pea lay, the whole looking like a tumour. ยง. 1. The Nature of the new Cutis. The new-formed cutis is neither so yielding nor so elastic as the ori- ginal is, and is also less moveable upon the part to which it is attached, or upon which it is formed. This hist circumstance is owing to its basis being granulations, which are in some degree fixed upon parts united by the adhesive inflammation; and more particularly so when the granula- tions arise from a fixed part, such as a bone, the new skin formed upon them being also fixed in proportion. It is, however, constantly becoming more and more flexible in itself, and likewise more loosely attached, owing to the mechanical motion to which the parts are subject after- wards. The more flexible and loose the parts become, it is so much the better, as flexibility, or the yielding of the parts, preserves it from the effects of many accidents. Parts which have been thickened in consequence of inflammation, such as the surrounding j>arts of new skin, have always a less internal power of action in them than parts which have never been inflamed. This arises from tho^dventitious substance thrown out in the time of