GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BLOOD. 46 necessary for the lymph to coagulate, in order to separate the serum, for we find that it separates in disease, as in the dropsy. It is separated ceed 1020 at 60°, nor the solid contents amount to more than 1 *01 per cent., the usual averages being 1029-5 spec. grav. and 10-00 per cent, solid contents. (Mcd.-Chir. Trans., xvi. 57,315.) M. Denis is of opinion that albumen predominates in the young and aged, and suggests that it may probably depend on a transference of this substance from the crassamentum to the serum, the former being most abundant in adult life. (Sur le Sang, pp. 288,290 ; see note, p. 37.) IV. As to the relative quantity of salts.—The uses of the salts of the blood can only be conjectured, for we have very little knowledge on the subject. Dr. Stevens indeed has spoken on this matter with much confidence, and assigned to the salts of the blood an importance inversely proportionate to their quantitative amount, appropriating to them the office of preserving the blood in a fluid state (On the Blood, p. 6.), of rendering it stimulating to the heart (pp. 14, 43.), of giving to it its scarlet colour (p. 8.), and of influ- encing in some unknown and indefinite manner the nutritive and respiratory functions (pp. 43, 51. et passim). The ground on which these statements rest is, that “in every part of the world where healthy blood has been analysed, it has invariably been found to contain a given proportion of certain salts.” Now there certainly appears to be some mistake here respecting the fact, for if by given proportion is meant a fixed proportion, this is contrary to experience. It is not indeed to be doubted that the salts of the blood are sometimes deficient in cholera and other malignant fevers, but in order to constitute this any argument to prove that fevers and cholera depend on this cause, it will be necessary in the first place to prove that the salts are never deficient in a healthy state, and secondly, that this variation in regard to the salts is greater than what occurs in regard to the other elements of the blood. With respect to the first of these points, I may observe that the extreme plus and minus quantities of salts present in healthy blood, according to Le Canu, were ll'll and 5-10 in 1000 parts,—allowing, therefore, of a difference of just one half. But, ac- cording to Dr. Thompson, the diminution of the quantity of salts in cholera blood was very inconsiderable (Phil. Mag., May 1832); while, even in the two cases which are reported by Dr. O'Shaughnessy, the proportions were 5‘60 and 2'92 in 1000 parts of serum (Report on Malignant Cholera), the average standard being, according to Le Canu, 9-01. The utmost diminution, therefore, of the salts in cholera did not amount to more than 2*18 below the minimum, or 6-09 below the average standard of health. Now,as a cause of disease, this is surely not to be compared with the extraordinary increase al- ready mentioned of solid contents, or the extraordinary disorganization of the blood in other respects. The truth is, that neither the increase of solid contents, nor the dimi- nution of the saline, are to be looked upon as causes, but rather as effects of the disease. The serous, and therefore the saline, parts of the blood pass off by the stools, but the cause of these stools must necessarily be antecedent. The second condition is equally incapable of proof, for beyond all question, every other element of the blood is subject to as great a variation as the salts, and much greater. Thackrah has referred to two cases of cholera in which there was an increase of solid contents to 400 and 500 in 1000 parts of blood, which is considerably more than double the common average, and exceeds the maximum quantity of healthy blood much more than the deficiency of salts in disease falls short of the minimum quantity of this element in a healthy state of the system. The fibrin, according to Le Canu, va- ries from 1-360 to 7 235 consistently with astate of health, and according to Dr. Whiting, it sometimes rises from 2-8 to 6- or even 9-7 in acute rheumatism and pleurisy. An equal variation is observable in regard to the hsematosine and red globules. Shall we,