481 THE ULCERATIVE INFLAMMATION. noctl not be great; for in many abscesses which have been opened, or have opened ot themselves, but not at the most depending part, so that the matter is allowed to stagnate at the lower part of the cavity, making a very slight pressure, we find that this alone is sufficient to produce ulceration in that part, and of course a fresh opening is produced, more especially if near the skin. This we see often take place in abscesses of milk breasts, when the opening is not at a depending part, and appears to be common in the fistula in ano ; for it frequently happens that the ulceration goes on at first towards the gut; but before this has taken place, ulceration has gone on some way by the side of it, to bring the matter externally, which weight of matter is alone sufficient to continue the same process. §. /. Of the Intention of Absorption of the Body in Disease. This, like everything else in Nature, involves in it two consequences, the one beneficial, the other hurtful, both of which this has in a consi- derable degree; however, if we understood thoroughly all the remote causes, we should probably see its utility in every case, and that these efleets, however bad in appearance, yet are necessary, and of course in the end salutary. The use arising from what may be called the natural absorption of parts, such as the forming or modelling process, as also the absorption of parts which have become unfit for the new mode of life, as the absorption of the thymus gland, &c„ is involved in its ne- cessity, and belongs to the natural history of the animal; but that ari- sing from disease is directly to the present purpose. In the history I have just given, its use must, I apprehend, be evident; for we plainly see, in each mode of absorption, it often produces very salutary effects; and we may say that, although it often arises from disease, yet its opera- tions and effects are often not at all a disease; and probably in those cases where we cannot assign a cause, as in wasting of parts, atrophy, &c., yet it is most probable that its use is considerable. It is likely that under such a disease, or state of body or parts, it would be hurtful to have them full and strong; where it produces a total waste of a part its utility is pro- bably not so evident; but in the progressive absorption, where it is leading bodies externally, or in consequence of suppuration, where it is bringing matter externally, its use is plain ; or even in the formation of an ulcer, or the spreading of an ulcer, its use may be considerable. I have formerly called it the natural surgeon; and where it can do its business it is in most cases preferable to art: this is so evident in many cases that it has been a constant practice to attempt to promote it in vox. nr. 2 i