774 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ike., referred to, see under their special heads. Whiting—continued. Whi ting—con tinned. sieve into a basin; work the mixture for two or three minutes with a spoon. Divide the forcemeat into small equal portions, put them on a Houred hoard, and roll them to the shape of a cork. Make a hollow in the centre of each croquette, using the handle of a small wooden spoon for the >urpose. Make a rather still' soubise puree, and fill the lollow of each croquette with it. Leave them till cold, then cover the opening at the top with raw forcemeat. Brush the croquettes over with beaten egg, anti cover them with finely-grated breadcrumb; put a good-sized lump of butter or dripping into a frying-pan, melt it, then put in the croquettes, and fry them till well browned. Drain the croquettes, put them on a folded napkin or a dish-paper that has been placed on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Whiting Forcemeat.—-(1) Clean the Whiting, separate the flesh from the bones, and trim off the skin; for every pound of fish-flesh use lOoz. each of bread panada and butter. Put the fish, panada, and butter into a mortar and pound them together; season the mixture with salt and pepper, and stir in two beaten eggs ami sufficient reduced veloute sauce maigre that lias been thickened with an egg to make the forcemeat soft but stiff. It is then ready for use. (2) Remove the skin from the fillets of three Whiting, put them into a mortar, pound them well, and form the mass into a ball. Take a little bread panada, about a third the bulk of the fish ball, put it into the mortar, and add 2oz. of butter; mix the two well, put in the fish mixture, and season with finely grated nutmeg and a little salt and pepper. Beat up the yolks of five eggs and the whites of three, and pour it into the fish mixture gradually, mixing well while adding. Put a little of the forcemeat into some boiling water or stock to poach, and if it is too stiff add a little white sauce or melted butter; if too thin and tender, add a little more yolk of egg, and use it. Whiting in Jelly.—Empty the fish, wash them well with plenty of water, and dry them. Fix the tails of the Whiting in their mouths. Put a sliced onion, a bay- leaf, some pepper, salt, and spices in a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar and sufficient water to cook the fish in. Boil the water to extract the flavours of the articles in it, then put in the fish, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently until the fish is cooked. When done, take the fish carefully out with the slice, drain them, and coat them with clear fish jelly. When the jelly has set, give the fish another coating, and repeat the operation till they are well covered. When the last layer of the jelly has set, arrange the fish on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a dish, garnish them with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Whiting Pie. -.Cut off the fillets from twelve small Whiting without removing the skin, lightly season them with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, put them on a board or table, spread them over thinly with fish forcemeat, and roll them up. Line a dish with paste, mask it with fish forcemeat, put in the fillets of Whiting, pour over a few table spoonfuls of warmed butter, cover with a layer of the paste, and bake in a moderate oven for from an hour and a quarter to an-hour and a half. Take out the pie when done, mask it with highly seasoned Spanish sauce, and serve. Should the pie be required very rich, it may lie covered with slices of fat bacon before putting on the lid or cover, and removing them before serving by taking off the lid of the pie, and afterwards replacing it. Whiting Pudding.—Separate the flesh from the bones and skin of two or three raw Whiting, put it in a mortar, and pound until smooth; place 1 teacupful of water in a saucepan with loz. of butter .and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and when it boils stir in gradually as much flour as will make a stiff paste. Leave the paste until cold, then put it in the mortar containing the fish, with half its quantity of butter; pound the whole together until quite smooth, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Season the mixture to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and bind it with h teacupful of bechamel sauce, the beaten yolks of one or two eggs, and the white of one. Butter a mould, fill it with the mixture, cover the top with a sheet of buttered paper, and stand it in a stewpan with boiling water to three-parts its height; steam it for half an-hour. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot (fish, pour a white sauce round it, and serve. Whiting Quenelles.-(1) Wash and clean the Whiting, pick the flesh off the bones, and put it in a mortar. Put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan with a little water, and boil them for the purpose of making a little fish broth. Mix Jib. of bread panada and ilb. of butter in with the fish in the mortar, season with pepper and salt, pound it, and pass through a fine hair sieve. Beat two eggs, and stir them in with the pounded mixture, with sufficient broth strained off the bones to make it the proper consistency. Work all together till quite smooth, then pass it through the line hair sieve again. With two table-spoons mould the forcemeat into quenelles, put them into a saucepan with some boiling fish broth, and poach them. Before the quenelles are cooked, a sauce should be made in the following manner: Pick the shells off several prawns, put them in a mortar, and pound them. Prepare a melted butter sauce in a small saucepan, stir in the pounded prawns, and, if obtainable, the coral of a lobster, to give it a pink tinge. When cooked, drain the quenelles, put them on a hot dish in a circle, garnish with some neat little sprigs of fried parsley, put the sauce in a sauceboat in the centre of the dish (see Fig. 1056), and serve very hot. (2) Clean and wash the Whiting, pick out all the bones and skin, chop the flesh, and pound it in a mortar; rub the pounded fish through a fine hair sieve. >Soak the crumb of some bread in milk. Chop some mushrooms and a small quantity of parsley, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them lightly. When cooled, mix the mushrooms and parsley with the pounded Whiting, squeeze the soaked bread, add that, and a lump of butter about the same bulk as the flesh of the Whiting. Pound the mixture in the mortar again, season it with pepper, salt, and allspice, and bind with three or four beaten eggs. Mould the forcemeat into quenelles with two table- spoons. Brush them over with a paste brush dipped in be it m egg, then roll them in finely-grated crumb of stale bread. Make some lard, butter, or dripping hot in a frying-pan, put in the quenelles, and fry them till nicely browned. Put about 4oz. of butter in i pint of Italian sauce, season it with salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire till hot. When cooked, drain the quenelles, put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Whiting Quenelles a la Venetienne.—Make 1 Jib. of Whiting forcemeat ; try if the proper consistency by poach- ing a small quantity of it in boiling water. Mould the forcemeat into small quenelles with two table spoons, and poach them in boiling salted water. When cooked, drain the quenelles and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish ; fill the centres with collops of lobster tails, pour a small quantity of veloute sauce over the tails, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same. WHITING POLLOCK or WHITING POUT.— See Pollock. WHORTLE-BERRIES.—See Bilberries. WIDGEON or WIGEON.—A species of wild fowl, common to many countries. The common European