769 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. White l*udding3—continued. the pork and fowl of breadcrumbs into a basin, and pour over then- 1J teacupfuls of boiling milk. Strain off the milk and add the soaked crumbs to the minced meat, sprinkle with salt and pepper, add 1 pinch of allspice, 1 teacupb ! of cream, and the well-beaten yolks of six eggs. Put ti. mixture into the saucepan with the onions, stir them well, and squeeze the whole into the required quan- tity of r;eaned skins (pig’s intestines). Put the puddings into a saucepan of milk, set the pan on the lire, and cook the contents slowly for twenty minutes without boiling. Let them get quite cold, prick them all over with a needle, place them on a grill over a clear but slow fire, and when done they are ready for use. Fig. 1049. Coiled White Puddings. (2) Put the required number of skins into a basin, after they have been thoroughly cleaned, and pour over them 1 teacupful of rose-water; let them remain in this for ten or twelve hours, then take them out and drain. Chop fine 8oz. of blanched almonds, mix them with double their quantity of grated breadcrumb, and add 21b. of minced beef-suet or marrow, lib. of well-washed currants, a little cinnamon, half a blade of mace, six cloves, and a quarter of a nutmeg all finely powdered, 2oz. of caster sugar, ioz. of candied citron, and the peel of half a lemon, both the latter cut up into small pieces. Mix these thoroughly and stir in lqt. of cream and the yolks of six and the whites of two eggs, slightly beaten. Put this mixture into the skins, leaving a little room in each one to allow for swelling, put them into a saucepan of milk-ami water in equal proportions, set the pan on the fire, and boil the puddings gently for twenty minutes. As they rise to the surface, prick them well. Take them out when done, drain on a cloth, and when cold they are ready for use. (3) Put Alb. of breadcrumbs in a saucepan with a little milk, and stir them over the fire till thick. Chop Alb. of lean pork and 6oz. of pork-suet or fat, put them in a mortar and pound them well, then mix in the panada and pound them again. Add to the mixture two or three boiled and finely-chopped onions and a small quantity of bechamel sauce, season with pepper, salt, and powdered mace, and pass it through a sieve into a basin ; work in the whites of three eggs and f breakfast cupful of cream. Blanch a few pistachios till swollen, then cut them into small squares and mix them with the forcemeat. Have ready a well cleaned and soaked salted sheep’s gut, and fill lengths of it with the forcemeat, tying them at each end. Put the puddings (coiled) into a large saucepan of hot water, and poach them, keeping the water at the same degree of heat, without allowing it to boil. Leave the puddings till partly cooled in the water, so as to preserve their curled appearance, then drain and hang them up in the air. On the following day prick the puddings with a needle, put them in an oven, and bake. When cooked, put the puddings on a hot dish, and serve. (4) Mix well together lib. of chopped marrow or suet, Alb. of sifted breadcrumbs, ^lb. of currants well-washed and dried, Jib. of almonds blanched and each almond cut into about eight pieces, a small quantity of powdered mace, cinnamon, and cloves, and a few slices of candied lemon peel and citron. Mix all to a paste with the beaten yolks of six eggs, stirred by degrees into 1 pint of cream, flavoured with orange (lower water and sweetened to taste with sugar. Warm a small quantity in a saucepan, and taste to find out if properly flavoured. White Puddings—continued. Partially fill well-cleaned skins with the mixture, tying them at intervals with twine. Boil them in milk-and- water, pricking with a fork as they rise, or they will burst. (5) Soak 21b. of grits for twenty-four hours in good mutton stock. At the end of that time, drain, and mix with them 21b. of finely-chopped mutton suet, 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of powdered sage, 1 table-spoonful of powdered thyme, and loz. each of salt and black pepper. Fill some long skins, tying them securely at the ends, coil them in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them for two horn’s. When cooked and cold, they may be served as they are, or may be cut into slices, dipped in beaten eggs and oil batter, and fried a nice golden brown. Spread a folded napkin or ornamental dish paper on a hot dish, arrange the slices on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. WHITES.—This term is generally used to denote the best class of pastry-ffour, but in the baking-trade it is a term used to disguise the introduction of alum into bread-making. They are then known as sharp Whites, stuff, or bakers’ stuff, consisting of powdered alum and flour in equal parts, or one pound of coarsely-ground alum to three pounds of salt. WHITE SAUCE.—See Sauces. WHITING (Fr. Merlans ; Ger. Weiszlingen ; Ital. Naselli).—The true Whiting is a pale and silvery tisli of the cod family. Those usually caught are about the size of a herring, but the flesh is exceedingly delicate and quite free from oil. Dr. Walsh says of it: “It is extremely digestible and fit for invalids and dyspeptics, the flesh being tender yet not watery, delicate in flavour, and of a pearly white.” The season for Whiting is early in the spring, when they visit the seas of Great Britain, and deposit their spawn near the shore. As they are very inferior after spawning, the season does not last long, but before they return to the depths of the sea they regain some of their former quality. Other fish are frequently palmed off upon the unwary as Whiting. Small haddocks, skinned and trussed with the tail in the mouth, as it is usual for Whiting to be trussed, with the tail passing through the eyes, or skewered in the mouth (see Fig. 1050), are frequently sold as Whiting, as also are codling For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, che., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 D VOL. II