THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 709 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. V eal—continued. Veal—continued. of ashes round it to keep it in place. When cooked, remove the paper, and press the contents of the mould down tightly with a spoon. Let it stand until cold, then turn the cake out on to a dish, garnish it with parsley, and serve. (8) Take the best end of a breast of Veal, bone it, and cut it in slices. Take some lean slices of ham cut thin, and season them with black pepper, cayenne, salt, and grated nutmeg. Hard boil two or three eggs, and chop them up. Chop line a small bunch of parsley and a couple of anchovies. Put a layer of Veal at the bottom of a deep baking-dish, scatter over it some of the chopped eggs, parsley, and anchovies, lay over them a layer of the seasoned slices of ham, then add a layer of Veal, eggs, &c., and continue alternate layers of ham and Veal with the eggs, parsley, &c., till all is in the dish. Pour over all J pint of water, lay the bones on the top, cover the dish close, and bake in a slow oven for four hours. Then take it from the oven, uncover the dish, take the bones out, and let it stand till the following day. Turn it out, and serve cold, garnished with parsley. (9) Take lib. of the thick part of a leg of Veal, cut out all skin and sinew, cut it up small with a little piece of nice fat bacon and about Alb. of suet or marrow; mix with it a seasoning of white pepper, cayenne, powdered mace, grated nutmeg, salt, and a small quantity of grated or finely-chopped lemon-peel, and pound all to a paste in a mortar. Shape the paste into small cakes about 2Jin. in diameter, and fry them in boiling dripping to a nice brown. Serve them hot, with some white sauce in a small tureen. (10) Chop lib. of cold Veal, and pass it through a mincing-machine. Put Jib. of sausage-meat into a basin, stand it in a saucepan of boiling water, and keep it over the fire until cooked. Mix the Veal and sausage-meat together with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of breadcrumbs, salt and pepper to taste, and a moderate quantity of powdered sweet herbs. Bind the mixture with stock, mould it into a cake or two rolls, put it in a baking-dish, and bake in a brisk oven, keeping it well basted. When cooked, serve hot with nicely-flavoured gravy ; or it may be served cold. (11) Mince lib. of lean Veal and Jib. of suet, and soak a stale roll in milk; mix all together, season with a small quantity of powdered mace, pepper and salt, and bind it with three well-beaten eggs. Lay the mixture out on a floured table and divide it into small flat cakes. Put a lump of butter in a saucepan, put in the cakes, and fry them till lightly browned; then drain off as much of the butter as possible, pour in some good beef stock, and boil them gently till cooked. Drain the cakes, and put them on a hot dish. Thicken the gravy with a little flour, adding more seasoning if required, then pour it over the cakes, and serve. Veal Cheese.—Stew part of a knuckle of Veal in Veal stock till it is quite tender and the gristle jellied, take it from the fire, and let it cool. Butter a mould or a basin, and lay in it at regular distances from each other the yolks of hard-boiled eggs and some of the white, cut either into rings or strips; then lay among and over the egg small bits of meat and gristle pulled or cut from the cold knuckle of Veal; sprinkle this with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and some of the gravy, then add more eggs, with small bits of cold boiled beetroot and cold boiled carrot (only use the red part of the carrot), more meat and seasoning, and all the gravy. When the basin or mould is filled put it in the oven for twenty minutes. Take it out, let it stand till cold, then turn it out, and serve. Veal Collops.—Pare and cut 2lb. of Veal (cut from the hip, if possible) into six thick slices, season them with 1 pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper, put them into a saut6-pan on a very hot range, with loz. of butter, and brown them for five minutes on each side. Place them on a hot dish, and serve with any desired sauce or garnish. Veal Collops a l’ltalienne.—The same as for Veal Collops, adding one medium-sized chopped onion, six chopped mushrooms, 1 teaspoonful of parsley, and a crushed clove of garlic. Moisten with J wineglassful of white wine, cook for five minutes with 1 gill of Italian sauce, and serve hot. Veal Collops a la Provenqale.—These are prepared as for Veal Collops, replacing the butter by the same quan- tity of oil. Season well, and when browned on both sides add one shallot or a finely-chopped onion. Let them colour, and moisten with 1 gill of broth. Add 2 table-spoonfuls of Spanish sauce, three chopped cepes or mushrooms, two crushed cloves of garlic, and 1 teaspoonful of parsley. Boil once, and serve with six croutons of fried bread for garnish. Veal Collops a la Viennaise.—Cut all the sinewy skin off two minion fillets of Veal, cut them slantwise into slices Jin. thick, beat them with a knife, season them with salt and pepper, dredge them well with flour, dip them in beaten egg, and cover with finely-grated breadcrumb. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan and melt it, then put in the slices of Veal and fry them. When nicely browned, drain the slices, and put them on a hot dish. Pour 1 teacupful of gravy in the frying-pan, boil it for three or four minutes, strain it through a fine sieve over the “ schintzel,” and serve. Veal Collops with. Endive.—Prepare and proceed precisely the same as for Veal Collops. Cook for eight minutes. Pour J pint of hot endive-juice on a hot dish, place the collops on the top, and serve. Veal Collops (Glazed).—Trim off all the sinewy part from two minion fillets of Veal, cut them into thin slices, beat them lightly with the handle of a knife, and season them. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan and melt it, then put in the collops and fry them, browning them nicely on both sides. When cooked, drain the butter off the col- lops, moisten them with 3 table-spoonfuls of rich gravy, and boil it till reduced to a glaze. Pour in a little white wine and tomato sauce, boil the liquid up, then take the frying-pan off the fire. Boil Jib. of well-washed rice till soft, then mix a small quantity of butter and grated Parmesan cheese with it. Butter a border mould, fill it with the rice, leave it for four or five minutes, then turn the rice out on to a hot dish. Put the collops in the middle of the dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Veal Collops with Stuffed Peppers.—Proceed exactly as for Veal Collops, adding the juice of half a medium-sized lemon and 1 gill of hot Madeira sauce. Cook for three minutes longer, and decorate the dish with six stuffed green peppers three minutes before serving. Veal Collops with Tomato Sauce.—Cut some pieces of Veal lin. square off a breast of Veal, put them into a saucepan with a small quantity of olive oil, and shake them over the fire until they begin to brown; then pour- over them a small quantity of French tomato sauce, add pepper and salt to taste, a shallot minced fine, and a little finely-chopped parsley. Let all simmer gently for half- an-hour, shaking the pan occasionally. Serve hot. Veal Cones.—Free about lib. of Veal from skin and fat, finely mince it with a slice of lean ham, put all in a mortar, and pound until smooth; then mix in a small Fig. 957. Veal Cones. teacupful of cream, and season the mixture with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated lemon-peel. Divide it into equal portions, mould these into cones about 2Jin. or 3in. in height, brush them over with a beaten egg, and strew grated breadcrumb over them. Put a large lump