677 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Vanilla—continued. Vanilla Caramels.—Mix well together 2lb. of the best sugar, loz. of gelatine dissolved in § breakfast-cupful of cold water, Joz. of pure paraffin-wax, -} pint of cream, and lib. of glucose (if the caramels are made in the summer-time, lloz. of glucose will be sufficient). Put this mixture over the Are and stir it constantly, till when a little is tried in cold water it makes a ball if rolled between the fingers; stir in then a flavouring of Vanilla, take it from tire fire, pour it into well-buttered tins, let it cool, and cut it into fin. squares. Wrap them separately in oiled paper, and keep them in a cool place. Vanilla Cheese.—Stir into J pint of cream 1 teaspoonful of extract of Vanilla; add 1 pinoli of salt and a little sugar, mix 1 pint of cream with it, and whip it over the ice till thick. Dissolve half a packet of isinglass and mix some caster sugar with it; put it in the cream, and continue stirring for a little while longer. When of the right consistency, turn the cream into a fancy mould, and pack it in ice till set. Dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, turn the cheese on to a dish, and serve. Vanilla-and-Chocolate Cream.—Make some white Vanilla and some chocolate cream, separately, but both of the same consistency. Brush a mould lightly over with oil, rest it slantingly on ice, and pour in a little of the Vanilla cream. When that is frozen, alter the position of the mould a little and pour in some of the chocolate cream. When it is frozen, proceed as before until the mould is full, changing the position of the mould each time—sometimes leaning to one side and sometimes to Fig, 925. Vanilla-and-Chocolate Cream. another in regular intervals. Pack the mould in pounded ice for two hours, or till wanted, then dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the contents on to a raised dish (see Fig. 925), and serve. Vanilla-and-Chocolate Souffle (Iced).—Put the yolks of sixteen eggs in a basin with 1 teacupful of clarified syrup anil 1 breakfast-cupful of water; beat them together, then pass them through a fine hah- sieve. Turn the mixture into a saucepan, and stir it over a slow fire until it becomes a thick custard, hut do not let it boil. Pour some boiling water in a bowl to warm it, then turn it out; pour the custard into the bowl, stir in 1 teaspoonful of Vanilla flavouring, and whip for several minutes; then stir in 1 pint of whipped cream, and pour all into a souffle - mould. Pack it in ice for two hours, put a layer of chocolate on it that has been melted in iced water, and leave for two hours longer. Serve the souffld in the mould. Vanilla Cream.—(1) Put 1 J pints of milk in a saucepan with half a pod of Vanilla, and boil it; then take the saucepan off the fire, put the lid on, and let the Vanilla soak for an hour. Beat the yolks of eight eggs together with fib. of caster sugar, then stir them into the milk, and continue stirring over a slow fire till the custard Vanilla—continued. thickens, but it must not boil; take the custard off the fire, and stir it for a few minutes longer. Soak 1 Joz. of gelatine in cold water for twenty minutes, then drain and mix it in the hot custard. When the gelatine has dissolved, strain the custard through a pointed strainer into another stewpan, which stand on the top of some rough ice; stir the contents till they begin to set. Whip If ]tints of thick cream to a stiff froth, take the stewpan off the ice, and stir it in. Fill a cylinder-mould with the cream, pack it in pounded ice, and leave till the cream is set. Dip the mould into hot water, wipe it, turn the contents out on to a dish, and serve. (2) Boil a pod of Vanilla in f pint of cream for twenty minutes, keeping the lid on the saucepan all the time. Beat the yolks of thirteen eggs and the white of one together with fib. of caster sugar and 1 pinch of salt. Remove the Vanilla from the cream, stir gradually with the beaten eggs, and strain the mixture through a silk sieve into a mould that has been buttered inside. Stand the mould in a bain-marie with hot coals on the lid, and cook the cream till it is set. Beat the yolks of eight eggs with Jib. of caster sugar and 1 pinch of salt; put them into a saucepan with f pint of cream and a little extract of Vanilla, stir it over the fire till it is of the required thickness* but do not let it boil, then move it off. Turn the contents of the mould on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. (3) Boil half a pod of Vanilla in f pint of milk sweetened to taste. Beat up the yolks of four eggs and mix with them the flavoured milk. Put this custard into a bain-marie, anil keep on stirring till the custard thickens. Dissolve 4J sheets of the best French gelatine in a little milk, and add this to the custard. Whip 1 gill of cream to a froth, mix it quickly with the custard, pour it into a mould, and let it stand on ice or in a very cool place till quite set; then dip the mould in hot water for a second, turn out the cream, and serve. (4) Beat up three eggs and the yolks of twelve more. Put over the fire in a saucepan sufficient cream, together with the beaten eggs, to fill a quart mould. Sweeten and flavour the cream to taste with powdered white sugar anil extract of Vanilla, boil it up a few times, let it cool, and mix the beaten eggs with it. Strain the cream five times through a cloth. Pour it into a buttered mould, and set in a bain-marie; do not let it get boiling hot, but as soon as the cream is set turn it out on to a dish. If there is any cream left after filling the shape, put it over the fire in a saucepan, stir with a wooden spoon, and as soon as it begins to stick to the spoon remove from the fire, con- tinue to stir for an instant, and then pour it over the other cream. Let it stand till cold, then serve. Vanilla Cream Fritters.—Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of potato-flour quite smooth with a little milk, then pour in 1 pint of milk and the beaten yolks of six eggs and the whites of two. Sweeten to taste and flavour with essence of Vanilla. Strain the mixture through a fine hair sieve into a lined saucepan, and stir it over a moderate fire until a thick custard. Butter a dish, turn the mixture on to it, spreading it out to about Jin. in thickness. When cold, cut the mixture into small pieces and wrap them separately in wafer-paper. Make some frying- batter, dip each piece of the cream in it, put them into boiling lard or butter, and fry a nice brown. Afterwards lay them on a sheet of paper near the fire for a minute or two to absorb the fat, then arrange them on a dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin, and serve. Vanilla Cream Ice.—(1) Mix well together lqt. of rich fresh cream, a well-beaten egg, and lib. of powdered white sugar; add a quarter of a Vanilla pod cut in pieces, set it over the fire in a saucepan, and keep it constantly stirred till on the point of boiling; then remove it from the fire, and strain through a fine sieve. When cold, place it in a freezer and stir till frozen. Repack the freezer with ice, and let the cream ice remain well covered till frozen. (2) Put a pod and a half of Vanilla cut into small pieces in a mortar with Jib. of loaf sugar, and pound them together.