758 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Walnuts—continued. eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon to a stiff froth, then mix with them the powdered Walnuts. Spread the Walnut mixture over the top of the cake, and leave it in the oven until lightly browned. When cooked, leave the cake until cold; then cut it into squares or diamond-shaped pieces, and pack them away in biscuit-tins, putting a sheet of white paper between each layer. They Mill keep for some time. Walnuts Prepared for Dessert.—Crack the upper half of the shells of the required quantity of Walnuts, and remove them carefully without damaging the kernel. Dip the exposed half of the nut into boiling water to facilitate peeling off the skin. Put each nut as soon as peeled in slightly acidulated and salted cold -water. When ready to serve, drain the nuts on a cloth. For dishing the nuts a paste-hoard stand should he made, with raised graduated tiers, and covered with green paper. Arrange the Walnuts on this (see Fig. 1031), using moss for the purpose of keeping the Walnuts in position. Walnut Ratafia.—Procure sixty young Walnuts with soft shells, prick them, put them in a jar with fifteen grains each of cinnamon, mace, and cloves, pour in 2qts. of brandy, and let them macerate for two months. Press the Walnuts to obtain all the liquor, which strain through a fine hair sieve; stir lib. of loaf sugar in it, and bottle. The ratafia will keep for several months. Walnut Salad.—(1) Break the shells of some Walnuts, take the kernels out carefully, blanch them to remove the skins, put them on a dish, squeeze the juice of one or two lemons over them, dust with salt and pepper, and let them macerate for three hours, turning them about occasionally. At the end of that time they will be ready for serving and will make an excellent dish. If the juice of some unripe grapes can be obtained, it will be prefer- able to the lemon-juice. (2) Crack the shells of about two dozen Walnuts, pick out the kernels, peel, put them in a basin, and soak them for two or three hours in lemon-juice. Wash and drain some watercress, chop it coarsely, and put it in a salad-bowl. Drain the Walnuts, put them in with the watercress, pour a plain salad dressing over them, and serve. Walnut Sandwiches.—Cut off very thin slices of home-made bread (trimming off the crust), lightly butter them, and upon each slice lay the thinnest possible slice of Gruyfere cheese. Have ready peeled as many fresh Walnuts as will cover half of the slices, lay them upon the cheese, sprinkle a very little salt over them, cover with another thin shaving of cheese and more very thin buttered bread, press the slices of bread close together to hold the nuts in place, and serve the sandwiches with sherry wine; or they may be served with green salad, with plain salad dressing. These are an excellent after dinner relish. Walnut-leaves.—There is nothing of the Walnut- tree that need be wasted, for even the leaves may be used to make the following: Walnuts—continued. Walnut Ketchup.—Put into a 3gall. jar lib. of salt, |lb. of powdered ginger, 3 handfuls of sliced horseradish roots, 1 handful of garlic, six pods of braised red pepper, and loz. of powdered cloves. Gather the young leaves from the Walnut, chop them fine, put them in the jar with 3galls. 'of boiling vinegar, cover the jar tightly, and place it in the sun for fourteen days. Then strain the liquor and bottle it, keeping it thditly corked till required for use. Walnut Mead.—Boil 141b. of honey in 4galls. of water for tliree-quarters-of-an-hour; put about eight dozen Walnut leaves in a large pan, pour the boiling liquor over them, and let it stand all night. On the following day strain the liquor off the leaves, and mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of ale yeast. Let it work for two or three days, then pour it into a cask and fix the bung down tightly. In two months’ time, draw the mead off into bottles, and cork them. Walnut Wine.—Put 5galls, of water in a pan with 5lb. of coarse honey and 101b. of brown sugar; boil it for half an-hour, and keep well skimmed. Put a large bunch of Walnut-leaves into a tub, and pour the above liquor over them. Let them stand until the following morning, when take out the leaves, squeezing them well to extract all the juice. Put 1 teacupful of yeast into the liquor, and let it work for seven days, stirring it thoroughly two or three times each day. Pour the wine into a cask, close the bung down firmly, and let it stand for six months. Afterwards bottle the wine. WARMING.—This term is so exceedingly indefinite that cooks would do well to expunge it from their vocabulary, excepting as applied to plates and dishes— which are often warmed more than is required—spoons, and such-like. Foods that are to be served hot should not be described as warm, nor should “ to warm ” be a suffi- cient description of the mode of cooking those foods that are to be served hot. To “ warm up ” is therefore not a genuine cookery phrase, and to “ warm through ” is open to the same objection. In spite of that, however, they will be used. ' WARREN’S COOKING-POT AND CURRY- PAN.—These vessels (see Fig. 1032),invented and patented by Captain F. P. Warren, R.N., deserve special notices. They are designed somewhat on the principle of the bain-marie, steamer, and braising-pan combined. The Fig. 1032. Warren's Cooking-pot (Adams and Son). sectional drawing (see Fig. 1033) shows that the pot consists of a large outside vessel, which contains a certain quantity of water. Into the rim of this fits an inner vessel or chamber (b), so fashioned that considerable space (a) is left all round the bottom and sides between it and the outer case. Over the inner chamber again is fitted a steamer (c) for cooking vegetables, and receiving its steam through pipes so arranged that no steam what- ever escapes into the inner chamber (b). The lid is made