706 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. V eal—continued. moisten with lqt. of white broth. Stir well, and season with 1 heaped table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and A- wineglassful of red wine. Add two carrots cut into square pieces, loz. of salt pork cut up* into pieces, and a bouquet garni. Cook for forty minutes longer, remove the bouquet, and serve very hot. Stewed Veal a la Chasseur.—Prepare and cook the same as for Stewed Veal a la Bolrgeoise, substituting for the garnishing twelve minced mushrooms, sixteen quenelles of godiveau, and one clove of garlic, three minutes before serving. Serve with six croutons of fried bread round the disli for garnish. Stewed Veal a la Grecque.—Place 211). of lean Veal cut in pieces into a stewpan, with 2oz. of butter and one cut- up onion, and cook for ten minutes, adding 2 table- spoonfuls of Hour. Moisten with lqt. of white broth and 1 gill of tomato sauce. Add 1 heaped table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, A teaspoonful of nutmeg, a bouquet garni, three white roots of celery cut into halves, and eighteen raw okras paved whole. Cook for thirty minutes longer, and serve with the dish nicely decorated with the garnishing. Stewed Veal a la Marengo.—Cut 31b. of lean Veal into pieces, and cook them in a stewpan with 1 gill of oil, a cut-up onion or two shallots, and 2oz. of salt pork also cut up. Toss them occasionally, and when well browned, which should take about ten minutes, dredge in 2 table-spoonfuls of Hour, stirring well. Moisten with lqt. of white broth and 1 gill of tomato sauce, and season with 1 table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, adding a crushed clove of garlic and a bouquet garni. Cook for forty minutes, and serve with croutons of fried bread for garnish, and a little chopped parsley sprinkled over. Stewed Veal a la Portugaise.—Place 2lb. of lean Veal cut in pieces into a stewpan, with 2oz. of butter and one cut-up onion, and reduce for ten minutes, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of flour. Moisten with lqt. of white broth and 1 gill of tomato sauce. Add three stuffed tomatoes and three timbales of cooked rice. Cook for thirty minutes, and serve with the dish decorated with the garnishing. Stewed Veal a la Provencale.—Cut into pieces 31b. of lean Veal from the breast or shoulder, and place them in a stew- pan with loz. of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet oil, and one chopped onion. Cook them for ten minutes, stirring occa- sionally ; add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir again, and moisten with lqt. of white broth. Season with 1 heaped table- spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and add six minced mushrooms, three crushed cloves of garlic, and a bouquet garni. Cook for forty minutes, and serve on a hot dish, sprinkling a little chopped parsley over it. Stewed Veal a la Solferino.—Cook 31b. of Veal, cut into pieces from the breast or shoulder, in loz. of butter with six small onions. When cooked for ten minutes, add 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, and moisten with lqt. of white broth and 1 gill of tomato sauce, seasoning with 1 table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Stir well together until it reaches boiling-point, then add two carrots and two turnips, cut out with a vegetable scoop into various shapes, and a bouquet garni. Cook for forty minutes longer, and serve. Any kind of vegetables in season can be added. Stewed Veal Chop.—Saw the chine-bone off a large neck chop, put it in a saute-pan with a pat of butter weighing about 1 oz., and fry it for five or six minutes on each side. Drain the chop, put it in a saucepan with 1 pint of broth, and boil it up ; then put in about eighteen or twenty pieces of carrots that have been peeled and turned to a cork shape, one large onion stuck with three cloves, and season with pepper and salt. Keep the broth boiling gently by the side of the fire till the meat and carrots are tender. When cooked, put the meat on a hot dish, garnish with the carrots, strain the cooking liquor through a fine sieve over it, and serve. Stewed Veal Cutlets.—Trim the cutlets and fry them to a pale brown, but do not let them get crisp ; then put them into a saucepan, close the lid, and put them, not over the Veal—continued. fire, but where they will keep warm without cooking. Into another saucepan put \ pint of tomato sauce and 2 table- spoonfuls of gravy. Peel and cut into slices one small onion, and fry them in the hot fat in which the cutlets were done ; when evenly browned, add them with the fat to the gravy, and season with pepper and salt to taste, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Let this come to a boil, then pour it over the cutlets in the saucepan, cover it over, put it by the side of the fire, and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Serve hot. Stewed Veal with Oyster Plant.—Prepare and cook the same as for Stewed Veal a la Bourgeo:se, substituting for the garnishing one bunch of well-cleaned raw oyster plant, cut into pieces, forty minutes before serving. Stewed Veal with Peas.—The same as for Stewed Veal A LA Bourgeoise, adding 1 pint of fresh peas in place of carrots thirty minutes before serving. Should green peas be out of season, use 1 pint of canned peas five minutes before serving. Stuffed Shoulder of Veal with Aspic.—Remove the knuckle and bone entirely from a shoulder of Veal, but take care not to pierce the skin. Spread the shoulder, skin downwards, on a table, and trim off the meat at the thickest part, thus making it an even thickness. Chop the trimmings with 21b. of lean Veal and 211). of fat bacon, and season with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper ; then put the mixture into a mortar and pound all together. Cut the rind off Alb. of fat bacon, and put it on one side ; then cut the bacon into large squares, and mix with the forcemeat. Dust a little salt anil pepper over the shoulder, cover it with a thick layer of forcemeat, fold the shoulder over in such a way as to entirely cover the forcemeat, roll it round in a cloth, and tie it at both ends with string, also tying some string round the middle to keep it in shape. Bone three calf’s feet, blanch them with the rind of the bacon, put them in an oval stewpan, also the bones broken in pieces ; add two or three small carrots, three onions, a large bunch of sweet herbs, three cloves, 2 large table-spoonfuls of salt, and 1 table-spoonful of pepper. Four in 4qts. of water and 1 teacupful of brandy, and put in the shoulder. When boiling, skim the liquor, then move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for four hours. At the end of that time drain the shoulder, take the cloth off, rinse it in hot water, then tie it on again. Press the shoulder between two baking-sheets with a heavy weight on the top till cold. Skim all the fat off the cooking- stock, strain it into a basin through a broth napkin, and leave it till set to a jelly. When cold, take the cloth off the shoulder, put it on a dish, garnish it with the jelly cut into croutons, or else chopped, and serve. Tendons of Veal a la Poulette.—Cut the tendons off a breast of Veal into small round pieces about Ain. thick, put them in a basin, cover them with warm water, and let them soak for an hour. At the end of that time put the tendons in boiling water with a little salt, leave them for a few minutes, then refresh them in cold water. Put the blanched tendons in a saucepan, with a bunch of thyme and parsley, a bay-leaf, and one large onion stuck with two or three cloves, cover the tendons with cold water, add a lump of salt, and boil them for an-liour- and-a-half, skimming the liquor occasionally. Put a pat of butter in a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till well mixed; then, the tendons being done, strain their cooking liquor into the saucepan with the butter, and stir it till the flour is cooked. Put the tendons in the gravy and boil them for fifteen minutes. Thicken the sauce with a liaison of beaten yolks of eggs, turn it on to a hot dish with the tendons, garnish them with cooked mushrooms, and serve. Terrine of Veal.—Trim a white cushion of Veal, lard it with ham and raw truffles, and dust it well with pepper, salt, and spices. Chop the trimmings of the Veal with an equal quantity of lean fresh pork, and mix with them an equal quantity of chopped fresh bacon and the trimmings of the truffles. Pound the mixture in a mortar, pass it through a fine hair sieve into a basin, season it with salt and pepper, and mix with it 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of