714 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal —continued. two or three minutes, hut without letting it hoil again, or the eggs will curdle; then pour it over the Veal, -and serve while very hot. Veal Cutlets a la Venitienne.—(1) Prepare the cutlets as tor Veal Cutlets a l’Italienne. Put in a saucepan 1 pint of mushrooms, a few shallots, and a little parsley, all chopped very line. Mince a little fat bacon, add it to the above with small pieces of butter, and let them simmer over a slow lire. When they are done, add the cutlets, and stew till they also are done. Season with salt and pepper. Skim the fat oil’ the gravy, put 1 table-spoonful of sauce tournee in the liquor, thicken the sauce with the yolks of three eggs, add a little cream, the juice of a lemon, and a little cayenne pepper. Dish the cutlets, and serve with the sauce. (2) Chop fine 1 breakfast-cupful of mushrooms, a little parsley, and a few shallots; put them into a saucepan over a slow lire with a piece of butter and a small quantity of fat bacon finely chopped, and let them stew; when partly done, put in some cutlets cut from the best end of a neck of Veal, nicely trimmed, well seasoned with salt and pepper, and beaten flat, and let them stew slowly till quite tender; then skim off the fat and stir in the yolks of three eggs beaten up with a little cream and 1 table-spoonful of sauce tournee; then mix in the strained juice of a lemon and a little cayenne, and serve. Veal Cutlets a la Viennaise.—Cut Veal cutlets into nice- sized square pieces, beat them with a rolling-pin, and dip them in well-beaten white of egg and then in finely- grated breadcrumb. Fry the pieces of meat in lard. When cooked and nicely browned, dredge salt over them, and serve them on a dish that has been embellished with a folded napkin or fancy-edged dish-paper. Veal Cutlets a la Zingara.—Saw the end of the rib-bones off a neck of Veal, so as to make the cutlets 4in. long, cut them of an even thickness, and trim them. Put the cutlets in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them till lightly coloured; then drain off all the butter, and pour in 1 pint of Veal broth and f pint of Spanish sauce. When the liquor boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and keep it simmering till the meat is tender. Cut some slices of lean ham the same shape as the cutlets, put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them for five minutes. When cooked, drain the cutlets, and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish with a slice of ham between each. Skim the fat off the gravy, strain it through a silk sieve, and serve it in a sauceboat with the cutlets. Veal Cutlets with Aspic Jelly.—Cut the rib-bones of eight Veal cutlets short, so as to leave them 4in. long, trim them, and lard them (see LARDING) through with strips of bacon, truffles, and ham, t hen braise them with some mirepoix, and cook them. When they are done, drain them, and press them between two dishes until they are cold. Cut a piece of bread 4in. high, remove the crust, and fry it a golden colour ; when cold, mask it with Montpellier butter, and fix it on a rice socle, also masked with the same butter. Arrange the cutlets upright against the bread, the bones inwards, put a pat of Montpellier butter on the top of the bread, so as to hide the cutlet bones, put a small aspic croftton on the pat of butter, place some chopped aspic jelly between each cutlet, garnish the dish with some aspic jelly cut into croutons, and serve. Veal Cutlets in Cases.—Put the cutlets in a deep dish with some chopped mixed herbs and mushrooms, a dust of salt and pepper, a squeeze of lemon juice, and some olive oil. In two or three hours’ time drain the cutlets, wrap each one separately in a sheet of buttered paper, put them in a saucepan, pour in the oil in which they soaked, and cook them over a slow fire. When cooked, drain the cutlets, put them on a hot dish, leaving the papers on, and serve them with mushroom sauce. Veal Cutlets Sautes.—(1) Trim five or six Veal cutlets, put them in a saucepan with a little stock, and boil them gently till cooked ; then drain them, put them on a plate, Veal —continued. put another on the top, with a weight on the top of that, and leave them till cold. Boil some brown sauce with trimmings of tru files till stiffly reduced, then dip in the cutlets to coat them thickly on both sides, dust some Hour over them, brush them over with beaten egg, cover them thickly with finely-grated breadcrumb, and last of all brush them over with clarified butter. Put the cutlets in a saute-pan with a little butter, and saute them till lightly browned. Drain the cutlets, put them on a dish- paper on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of white sauce. Veal Cutlets with Stewed Cabbage (Venetian).— Thoroughly wash and dry the heart of a white cabbage, and cut it up into small pieces. Put loz. of beef dripping into a stewpan with ioz. of butter and t table-spoonful of finely-minced garlic, and stir it over the fire until browned. Put in the cabbage with more fat, either butter or dripping if necessary, and stew it gently at the side of the lire for two hours-and-a-half, stirring it frequently. Trim some thin cutlets of Veal to a nice shape, coat each with a thin layer of preserved tomatoes, strew finely- chopped onion and parsley over them, season with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and moisten with a few drops of vinegar. Half Jill a flat stewpan with salad-oil, and place it over the lire; when it boils put in the cutlets, and fry them. As each cutlet is Fig. 963. Veal Cutlets with Stewed Cabbage. cooked, take it out of the fat, and drain it for a minute or two on a sheet of kitchen-paper before the fire. Turn the cabbage on to a hot dish, lay the cutlets on it (see Fig. 963), and serve. Veal Cutlets with White Sauce.—Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into a saucepan with 1 table spoonful each of finely- chopped carrot and onion, and fry them for a few minutes over a clear fire. Season ljlb. of Veal cutlets with salt and pep®-, put them in the saucepan with the vegetables, put on the lid, and cook them slowly for lia f-an-hour. Take the cutlets out of the saucepan, dip them in beaten egg, cover them well with breadcrumbs, and fry them till nicely browned in boiling butter. Put a puree of green peas in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the cutlets round them, pour some white sauce round, and serve. Veal Doopiaja.—Put 3oz. of fat into a warmed frying- pan, add twelve onions cut in slices, and fry them to a light brown; take them out, add to the fat 4 teaspoon- fuls of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, teaspoonful of ground ginger, and \ tea- spoonful of ground garlic, and brown these slightly; put in 21b. of meat from the shoulder of Veal, cut up into squares, and 1 h teaspoonfuls of salt, pour in 1 breakfast- cupful of water, and simmer gently over a slow fire for about an-hour and-a-half, by which time the meat should be tender and the liquor reduced to a stiff consistency and about half its original quantity. Turn the mixture out on to a dish, sprinkle over the onions, and serve very hot. Veal Forcemeat.—(1) Chop lib. of beef-suet and half that quantity of lean Veal, and mix them together. Season the mixture with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, put it in a mortar, and pound it; then stir in four eggs that have been beaten with a little water and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley. When well mixed, the forcemeat is ready for use. (2) Finely chop 31b. of Veal, and pound it in a mortar. Put 1 pint of milk in a saucepan with 2 breakfast- cupfuls of breadcrumbs, and stir them over the fire till soft and