THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 729 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, *ances, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads V egetables—co nti nued. sprinkling each layer with salt and pepper as it is put in. Continue in this way until all is used up, finishing with potato. Make a paste with 111), of flour, 3oz. of dripping, 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and cold water. Cover over the dish with this, put it in a moderate oven, hake for two hours, and serve very hot. (5) The cold remains of Vegetables such as haricot beans, peas, potatoes, carrots, celery, &c., can be used. Fill a pie-dish with them, putting the most substantial in the middle, and pour over them some butter sauce or onion sauce. Season well. Mash some cold boiled potatoes quite smoothly, moisten them with beaten egg, season to taste with salt and pepper, and spread them evenly over the contents of the pie-dish. Bake the pie in a brisk oven till nicely browned. Serve while very hot. (6) American.—Put 2oz. of dry julienne (chopped Vegetables) in a large basin, pour over lqt. of nearly boiling milk, and let it soak for an hour. Then put it into the bain-marie for thirty minutes, mix in 1 teaspoonful of powdered sweet herbs, 1 teacupful of sifted breadcrumbs, and i teacupful of cream, with two eggs beaten into it. Line a greased pie-dish with paste, put in the Vegetable mixture, cover the pie with more of the paste, decorate the top, brush over with egg, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. Vegetable Pudding.—Grate Alb. of carrots, mix with them ilb. each of mashed cold potatoes, finely-chopped suet, flour, and moist sugar, 4oz. of finely-shred candied peel, and 4oz. of well-washed currants. Work the mixture to a paste with a little milk or water, .turn it into a basin or mould, tie a cloth over it, put it in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil slowly for four hours. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a dish, and serve. Vegetable Puree.—Prepare any kind of Vegetables, such as potatoes, parsnips, leeks, onions, carrots, turnips, Ac., put them all together in a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs, stock to cover them, and salt and pepper and spices to taste, and boil them until quite tender; then mash them through a fine hair sieve. Put 2oz. of butter and a table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan, mix them over the fire, and then mix the puree in gradually. Stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then move it to the side, and stir in the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten up with a small quantity of milk and strained. Turn the purd e on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or croutons of bread that have been fried brown in butter, and serve. Vegetable Puree Soup.—(1) Well wash a couple of bundles of young carrots, scrape them thoroughly, and rasp off the red parts only into a saucepan ; add a little butter and a slice of lean ham, also a few leeks and sticks of celery tied up in a bundle, and stir well over the fire until the vegetables are slightly coloured : then pour in the required quantity of fowl or other consomme, and boil slowly for two hours. Take out the roots and ham, and strain the soup into another saucepan ; rub the carrots through a sieve, add them to the soup, and bring it once more to the boil. Remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, skim the soup carefully, add a small pinch of moist sugar, pour it into a tureen, and serve. (2) Peel three turnips, three carrots, three onions, and a few leeks, cut them up into small squares, and blanch them in boiling water. Drain the Vegetables, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them until nicely browned ; then put them into a saucepan with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley and 1 scant breakfast- cupful of washed rice, pour in 5 pints of clear stock, and place it over the fire until boiling. Move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, and let the contents simmer until all are cooked. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Pass the soup through a wire sieve, return it to the saucepan, mix | pint of cream with it, and boil it up again. Beat the yolks of four eggs, put them in a soup- tureen, and pour the soup in gently, stirring it at the same time. Serve with a plate of sippets of toast or crohtons of fried bread. Vegetables—continued. (3) Peel fib. of onions, peel and wash lib. of turnips, scrape and wash lib. of carrots, anil wash one lettuce, half a small head of celery, and a small bunch of parsley. Cut these up small, put them in a stewpan over the fire with fib. of butter and a seasoning of pepper and salt, and stew for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Add lqt. of green peas, and 3qts. of stock, made of a couple of pounds of veal, and let it simmer for three hours. Then press it through a sieve, return it to the fire, and boil it up before pouring it into the tureen. (4) Cut into slices an equal quantity of carrots, leeks, and onions, one turnip, one root of celery, and three or four roots of young cabbage radish. Put the Vegetables into a saucepan with a lump of butter, and fry them over a moderate fire for fifteen minutes. Peel and cut into thin slices six raw potatoes, put them in with the other Vegetables, moisten with 3qts. of broth, add a sprig of chervil, and keep the Vegetables boiling gently till tender. Pass the whole through a fine hair sieve, return the puree to the saucepan, and stir it till it begins to boil. Beat the yolks of six eggs with a teacupful of cream. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, mix in the beaten yolks and a lump of butter about loz. in weight, and stir the mixture by the side of the fire for a few minutes. Turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Vegetable Salad.—(1) Boil some beetroot, celery, and Portugal onions. When cold, cut them into thick slices. Mix together 1 salt-spoonful of salt, 1 table-spoonful of made mustard, 1 dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, 1 dessert-spoonful of elder vinegar, and six drops of chilli vinegar, and pour it over the Vegetables. (2) Cut the white part of two or three sticks of celery into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with two small onions and sufficient jelly stock to cover them, and boil them until tender. When cooked, strain the Vegetables, and rub them through a fine hair sieve. Mix with the cooking-liquor an equal quantity of thick cream, stir the Vegetable pulp in with it, pour the whole back into the stewpan, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Move the sauce off the fire, stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, and stir it occasionally until cool. Cover the bottom of a dish with a thick nicely flavoured tomato sauce, over that arrange a layer of sliced tomatoes. When the sauce is cold, season it to taste with salt and a small quantity of chilli vinegar, and pour it over the beetroot. Arrange round the dish a border of washed and nicely-packed watercress, strew some capers over the top, and serve. (3) Russian.—Peel and wash two protatoes, two small carrots, and one turnip, and boil them separately; also wash, trim, and boil half a head of celery. When the Vegetables are tender, cut them into smail squares, and pile them in the centre of a round dish. Put the yolks of two eggs into a basin, mix in gradually 1 teacupful of salad oil, and beat them until creamy; then add 1 table- • spoonful of vinegar, one third of the quantity of tarragon vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. Beat a few minutes longer, then pour the dressing over the Vegetables. Take four anchovies and four olives, and twist an anchovy round each olive. Garnish the dish with slices of beetroot, which should be arranged to overlap each other, place one of the olives at each end and one at each side, and serve. Vegetable Sauce for Fish.—Put Jib. of butter in a sauce- pan with 3 table spoonfuls of Hour, and stir it over the fire until smooth; then pour in 1J pints of clear fish broth, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Put a few thin slices of carrot, onion, and celery in a saucepan with two or three sprigs of parsley, loz. of butter, and sufficient broth to cover them, and boil them gently until tender. When the Vegetables are cooked, pour the butter sauce in with them, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil the whole together for a few minutes. Strain the sauce before serving it. Vegetable Soup.—(1) Finely chop sufficient onion, carrot, and celery in equal proportions to fill five breakfast cups, also 1 teacupful each of turnip, parsnip, and cabbage. The cabbage, parsnip, and onion should have been partially