THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 713 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. V eal—continued. them, and put them on one side to cool. Add to the gravy 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley and 2 table-spoon- fuls of breadcrumbs. Have ready six pieces of oiled white paper cut heart shape, put a thin slice of cooked ham on one side of the paper, pour over the ham a little of the stock, and on the top of it place a cutlet and another layer of the stock, and over all a thin slice of cooked ham. Cover with the second part of the paper, and close it by folding the two edges firmly together. Bake for a short time, at most live minutes, in a rather slow oven, and serve at once. Veal Cutlets a la Perigueux.—-Trim some Veal cutlets more than lin. in thickness, keeping the bones short, and lard them through with raw trutiies cut in square fillets. Line the bottom of a flat stewpan with sliced vegetables and lay the cutlets on them ; add Veal broth to half their height and a bunch of herbs and parsley, and re- duce the broth to half its original quantity; then cover the cutlets with buttered paper, move them to the side of the fire, and simmer slowly, adding a little more broth occasionally. When done, drain the cutlets, and put them on a circle of forcemeat jwached in the dish, having in the centre a small bread croustade filled with cooked truffles (see Fig. 962). Add the trimmings of the truffles to the liquor that the cutlets were cooked in, reduce, skim off the fat, thicken with a little brown sauce, strain it, pour some over the cutlets, and serve the re- mainder in a sauceboat. Veal Cutlets a la Proven^ale.—Trim the cutlets, season them with salt and pepper, flour them, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them. When the meat has set, drain the fat from the stewpan, and pour in some broth to half the height of the cutlets. When the liquor boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and keep it simmering till the cutlets are done. Chop six large white onions, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them over a moderate fire till nicely browned. Dredge a little flour, pepper, and salt over the onions, pour in h pint of wine and gravy, mixed in equal quantities, and boil them for ten minutes. When cooked, arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, turn the minced onions and gravy in the centre, sprinkle over a little cayenne pepper and chopped parsley, and serve. Veal Cutlets en RagoUt.—Cut some nice-sized cutlets from a fillet of Veal, beat them with a cutlet-bat, trim them neatly, and lard them with thin strips of bacon. Season some breadcrumbs with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, and strew them over the cutlets. Prepare a ragout of Veal, sweetbreads, and mushrooms. Put a lump of butter or clarified fat in a frying-pan, and place it over the fire; when blue smoke rises, put in the cutlets, and fry them till nicely browned on both sides. When cooked, drain and lay them on a hot dish, pour the ragout over them, and serve without delay. Veal Cutlets a la St. Cloud.—Lard six Veal cutlets with two small truffles cut julienne shape, loz. of cooked beef tongue, and loz. of larding-pork, all cut in the same way. Place them in a saute-pan with 1 pinch of salt, one sliced carrot, and one sliced onion, and let them brown for ten minutes, being careful to keep the lid on the pan. Moisten with l, pint of broth, anti put them in the oven V eal—continued. to finish cooking for at least fifteen minutes. Serve with a hot salpiyon sauce poured over the dish, and the chops put on the top. Veal Cutlets a la Singarat, or Saint Garat.—Lard the cutlets with fine strips of lean bacon, trimming them off, nicely. Put some slices of ham and bacon in a stewpan put in the cutlets, and cover them with slices of bacon, adding a few carrots, onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Pour in some stock, put the lid on the stewpan with some hot coals on it, and cook the contents over a slow fire. When cooked, take the cutlets out. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, mix a little stock with it, and boil it till somewhat reduced. Put a purue of mushrooms or tomatoes on a hot dish, place the cutlets on it, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Veal Cutlets en Semelleo.—Cut some cutlets lin. thick from a fillet of Veal, sprinkle them well with pepper and salt, and fry them a little in butter with a bay-leaf in the pan. Lay at the bottom of a deep saucepan a thin slice of bacon, and on the top of it one of the Veal cutlets ; over this another thin slice of bacon, then a Veal cutlet, and so on alternately till all are packed in. Put in then h pint of water and two or three bay-leaves, lay a sheet of buttered paper over the meat, close the lid of the saucepan tightly, put it on hot ashes, and let it stew for four or five hours, keeping the fire at the same degree of heat all the time. Turn out when done, and serve very hot. Veal Cutlets en Surprise.—(1) Any underdone pieces of Veal can be used, trimmed to a nice shape. Mix with some finely-grated breadcrumb half their quantity of minced bacon, moderate quantities of chopped parsley and shallot, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Bind the mixture with beaten yolk of egg, spread a layer of it over one side of each cutlet, and wrap each in a slice of fat bacon and then in a sheet of oiled paper, folding it well round the edges. Put a lump of butter or clarified fat into a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire; when blue smoke rises, put in the cutlets, and fry them from five to ten minutes. When cooked, drain the cutlets, put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve. (2) Cut the Veal into thin cutlets, trim them neatly, and dredge them over with salt and pepper. Chop the trimmings of the cutlets up finely with a moderate quantity of fat bacon, add to the mixture half its quantity of breadcrumbs, and season with moderate quantities of finely-minced sweet herbs and shallot, and salt and pepper to taste. Bind the mixture with beaten egg, and spread it over the cutlets on both sides ; brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and roll them m breadcrumbs. Put a large lump of butter or clarified fat in a flat stewpan, and place it on the fire; when boiling, put in the cutlets, and fry them a delicate brown. Drain the cutlets when they are cooked, put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with quarters of lemons, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich brown gravy. Veal Cutlets a la Talleyrand.—Cut lib. of fillet of Veal into small oval-shaped pieces, put them into a flat stew- pan with loz. of butter, toss them about over a moderate tire for five minutes, taking care not to let them brown, then move the pan off the fire. Chop as finely as possible 1 teacupful of mushrooms, one shallot, and two or three sprigs of parsley, then strew them over the pieces of Veal. Put loz. of butter into a small saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir them over the fire until mixed, then pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of white stock. Continue stirring the stock until boiling, then pour it over the Veal, and stew the whole gently for nearly half-an-hour, stirring it or shaking the stewpan about occasionally to prevent the contents burning. Beat the yolks of two eggs with J teacupful of cream, and season to taste with salt and pepper. When cooked, take the pieces of Veal out of tiie stewpan, and arrange them on a hot dish. Pour the beaten egg into the stewpan with the Veal liquor, and stir it at the side of the fire for