THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. 805 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Zanders—con tinned. (2) Dantzig Style.—Clean and scale a large Zander, trim off the tips of the fins, and cut the fish into moderate- sized pieces; put them in a fiat stewpan with the head and a bunch of parsley. Blanch two dozen oysters in white wine, strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, let it settle, and pour it over the fish; pour in sufficient white wine to cover the fish, add some trimmings of mushrooms and loz. of butter that has been kneaded with 1 table-spoonful of flour, breaking it up into small pieces. Put the lid on the stewpan, and boil the liquor quickly for ten minutes. Trim the oysters and dry them thoroughly on a cloth. When cooked, take the pieces of Zander carefully out of the stewpan, lay them on a dish, and keep them hot whilst the sauce is being prepared. Boil the cooking liquor until reduced to a third of its original quantity, then pass it through a fine hair sieve into a clean stewpan. Boil it up again, move it to the edge of the fire, and mix in quickly the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten with 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. Stir the sauce until thickened, but do not let it boil again, then put in the oysters, pour it round the fish, and serve without delay. Zander with Aspic Jelly.—Clean the fish, removing its inside, and stuff it witli an ordinary forcemeat, making it look plump; sew up the opening and truss the head firmly. Wrap the fish in a cloth, put it in a fish kettle with sufficient court bouillon to cover it, keep it over the fire until the liquor reaches boiling-point, then move it to the side where it may simmer gently until the fish is done. Leave it in the cooking-liquor until cold, then drain it very carefully; remove the cloth, and coat it with jelly. Slide the fish carefully on to a pain vert that has been placed on a silver fish-dish, garnish it first with a string of chopped aspic jelly, and then with halves of hard-boiled eggs and small croft tons of jelly. Serve it with a sauceboatful of mayonnaise sauce. ZEPHYRS.—These might almost be described under the heading of Souffles, but as in certain parts of the country they are accorded special value, the following two receipts are given for their preparation: (1) Put loz. of gelatine in a small lined saucepan with A pint of milk, and place it over the fire until dissolved ; then move it off and put in 3 heaped table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese. Whisk 1 breakfast-cupful of thick cream to a stiff froth, then mix it in with the other ingredients. Fill some small moulds or cups with the mixture, and stand them over ice or in a very cool place until it has set. When ready to serve, turn the Zephyrs out of the moulds on to a dish, and garnish them with small croft tons of aspic jelly. (2) Put Alb. of butter in a stewpan with 1 pint of water, then stir in gradually Alb. of flour, and continue stirring the mixture over the fire until it parts from the sides of the stewpan. Remove it from the tire, and leave it until nearly cold, stirring occasionally. Break eight eggs in a basin, grate in the peel of half a lemon, and beat them well; then stir them into the paste. Dust the interior of a shallow baking dish with flour, then with a spoon constantly dipped in water take the mixture up in small quantities anti drop them on to the floured tin, leaving a short space between each to allow of the balls rising twice their original size. Put them into a brisk oven, and bake until they are lightly browned. They will require a very short time to bake. When cooked, arrange them on a hot dish on which has been laid a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, sift caster sugar over them, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon if liked, and serve. ZEST {Fr. Zeste).—The yellow surface of oranges and lemons, containing the essential or flavouring oil of the peel. The term is commonly used in this sense as orange- or lemon-zest; but it has really a more extensive signification, and might correctly be applied to all sorts of spices and flavourings. ZRAZY.—This is a Polish dish, and is prepared as follows: Cut off some slices about lin. in thickness from the fillet of a sirloin of beef, flatten them with the cutlet-bat till they are half their previous thickness, and trim them as nearly round as possible. Put a large lump of butter into a saucepan, make it hot, put in the pieces of meat, season to taste with salt and pepper, add a little ground or pounded cloves and a few chopped onions or shallots browned in butter to a light colour, and add also a small clove of garlic, likewise bruised or pounded. Cover the pan, and set them on the stove where they will steam in their own liquor until quite tender, turning them over when one side is cooked so as to have them done equally on both sides. Should the gravy dry up or evaporate, add a little rich stock or soup. Take out the rounds of meat when tender, place them on a dish, skim off the fat from the liquor, add a small quantity of flour to thicken slightly, colour with burnt sugar, cook for a minute or so, pour it over the meat, and serve. Potatoes cut into slices and fried in butter should be served for garnish. Should the garlic be objected to, it may be omitted. ZWEIBACHEN.—This is the name of some famous German cakes, the term signifying twice cooked (Zwei—• twice, and bachen—cooked). (1) Beat six eggs together with 3oz. of caster sugar; mix J pint of fresh yeast in A pint of slightly-warmed milk, then add Jib. of warmed butter. Sift in gradually with the above ingredients sufficient flour to make a stiff dough, stirring all the time, and mixing it very smoothly. Put a cloth over the pan and set it in a warm tempera- ture till the dough has risen to double its original height. Dust a little flour over the dough and knead it well with the hands; it should not be too stiff. Divide this into several small portions, and shape them into long rather narrow cakes about lin. in thickness. Put the Zweibachen on a fluttered baking-tin, brash them over with a paste- brash dipped in milk, and bake them. When cooked, leave the cakes till the following day, then split them open, lay them out flat, the crusted part underneath, and put them in a moderate oven again till yellow and crisp. These cakes may be eaten with butter while hot, if liked, or left till cold, and eaten as a dry biscuit. (2) Mix together in a basin lib. of finely-sifted flour and Jib. of sugar. Dissolve 2 table-spoonfuls of yeast in A pint of warm milk, then make a hollow in the centre of the flour and stir it in. Cut 4oz. of butter into thin slices, lay them on the top of the mixture, cover with a cloth, and leave it until risen. Afterwards knead the dough thoroughly with the hands and set it to rise. When it begins to crack on the top, mould the dough into strips lin. thick and 4m. or 5in. long. Butter a baking-tin, and lay the strips on it, leaving about 2in. clear space between each. Leave them until they have risen again, then brash them over with a paste-brash dipped in milk, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, put the strips in the larder until the following day. Afterwards cut them open, using a sharp knife for the purpose, and put them in a cool oven. When crisp and lightly browned, take them out.