751 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfcc., referred to, see under their special heads. W afer s—con tinu ed. serve, put the timbale on an ornamental paper on a dish, fill it with the frozen cream, allowing it to come 2in. above the edge of the timbale, and put a preserved cherry on the top of each Wafer. Timbale of Wafers with Maraschino Ice.—This timbale is made as for Timbale of Wafers with Filbert Ice, with the exception that the iced cream is flavoured with J pint of maraschino instead of the filberts, and that a large strawberry is put on the top of each Wafer. Vanilla-flavoured Wafers.—These are made the same as for Wafers with Pistachios, mixing half a stick of vanilla well pounded with the sugar, and half a glass of brandy in place of the orange-flower water. Wafers a l’Allemande.—Make some paste as for Wafers with Pistachios and Almonds, but omit the almonds and pistachios. Whip some cream with a little caster sugar, and flavour it with orange-flower water. When the Wafers are cooked and ready to serve fill them with the cream, put a preserved cherry or, if in season, a strawberry at the end of each, arrange them in a pyramid on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. Wafers filled with Cream.—(1) Beat together Jib. of powdered vanilla sugar and the whites of three eggs till frothy. Dry Jib. of flour, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Blanch, peel, and chop lib. of sweet almonds, and mix them together with the flour into the beaten eggs, adding by degrees two more beaten whites of eggs and a pinch of salt. When the paste is quite smooth (it should be liquid), bake a small portion of it in the oven to try its consistency. Wax and flour some baking-sheets, spread thin layers of the above mixture over them, and bake in a quick oven. When baked, divide the Wafers into 4in. squares, and roll them into cornets (see Fig. 1017). Have ready a decorated gum-paste stand, with a small W afer s—continued. finely-chopped sweet almonds, and 1 teaspoonful of orange- flower water. Warm two or three baking-sheets, rub them over lightly with pure white wax, then drop the prepara- tion on them with a spoon into cakes the size of a penny. Blanch and shred some pistachios, and put some on each cake. Bake them very lightly and crisp. When cooked, take the Wafers with the aid of a thin knife off the Fig. 1017 Wafer-cornets, Fig. 1018. Gum-paste Stand One filled with Cream. for Wafers. support in the centre, with two round shelves jutting out a little above each other (see Fig. 1018). Fix the stand on a round glass dish, place nine of the cornets one beside the other round the lower gradin or shelf, six round the second gradin, and set a vase of sweets on the top ; use sugar icing to make the cornets adhere to the stand. Flavour 1 pint or more of thick cream with vanilla, and whip it to a stiff froth; then fill the cornets with the cream and garnish round the base of the stand with macaroons and candied fruits, and round the bottoms of the lower cornets with candied flowers (see Fig. 1019). Servo as soon as prepared. (2) Put 6 table-spoonfuls of flour in a basin with 5 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and beat in three eggs. Rub a tin or copper baking-slieet over with cocoa-butter spread the mixture over it, and bake in a brisk oven. Flavour and sweeten 1 pint of cream to taste with vanilla and caster sugar, and whip it to a stiff froth. Cut the Wafer out into rounds, curl them up while hot, and fill with the cream. When cold, arrange them in a circle on an ornamental dish-paper spread over a plate, and serve. Wafers with Pistachios.—Beat six eggs with Jib. of caster sugar, 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, Jib. of blanched and baking-sheets, curl them over the handle of a wooden spoon, and put them in a slack oven for a short time to dry; should the Wafers have got out of shape before turning them on the handle of the spoon, trim them care- fully round with a knife. They are then ready to be served. Wafers with Pistachios and Almonds.—Blanch Jib. of sweet almonds, cut them up as fine as possible, and mix them with 4oz. of crushed loaf sugar, the grated rind of an orange, 1 dessert-spoonful of flour, a little salt, the yolks of three eggs, and the whites of two; when well and carefully mixed, turn the whole out on to a well-buttered or waxed baking-slieet, arrange the almonds evenly with a fork, sprinkle over 2oz. of finely-chopped pistachios, put it into a moderate oven, and bake to a light colour. While still hot, cut it into lengths, wrap them separately round a stick, let them get cold, ami they are ready for use. Should it be preferred they may be cut into lengths, the edges dipped into caramel, then into chopped pistachios; mask with apple or other jelly, and serve. WAFER BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. WAFER GINGERBREAD.—See Gingerbread. WAFER-PAPER.—This is used in cookery for covering some kinds of sweetmeats, or forms a basis upon which sugary biscuits, such as macaroons, are laid. Wafer-paper may be made as follows : Make some fine flour into a smooth thin paste with water, sweeten it with a little loaf sugar, and flavour with a little powdered cinnamon. Pour this upon an oiled very clean copper baking-slieet that has been previously heated in the oven. As soon as the paste has set, it can be stripped off and used as required; or this paper may be prepared by brushing over a hot bright baking-sheet with white of egg or the above mixture. The heat of the baking-slieet should be sufficient to set the egg or batter; should it not set at once, the sheet may be put in a hot oven for a minute or two.