753 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. W a files—coni inued. water, and salt to taste. Stir the flour mixture in with the warm milk, &c., work well with a wooden spoon, and set the bowl containing this batter in a warm temperature for two hours, by which time it should have risen fully Sin. Work it slightly to let the fermentation subside, and leave it for thirty minutes longer. Make the irons hot, wipe them over with fat bacon, fill with the batter, and cook for a few minutes. When done, dip them in cinnamon sugar, pile them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. (4) Slightly warm lib. of fresh butter, and beat in six eggs one at a time; add a pinch of salt, and sift in gra- dually, while still beating, lib. of fine dry flour and 1 table-spoonful of yeast, and pour in lastly 1 pint of thick cream. Work the mixture well with the hand, then cover the basin and set it in a warm place for a few hours. Grease the wattle-mould, fill it with the mixture, and cook them. When all the Waffles are cooked, put them on a folded napkin on a dish, sift some caster sugar over them, and serve. (5) Dissolve J teacupful of fresh yeast in a breakfast- cupful of warm milk, then stir it gradually into 41b. of flour, mixing it to a smooth soft paste. Cover the paste with a cloth, and stand it near the fire until well risen ; then mix with it the beaten yolks of six eggs, Jib. of butter that has been slightly warmed and beaten until creamy, and a lump of sugar that has been rubbed over the peel of a lemon and pounded. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and stir them lightly into the mixture at the last. Stand the paste again in a warm place, and leave it until it has risen to nearly double its original bulk. Heat some waffle-irons, rub them with a little pure fat or butter, fill them with the mixture on one side, and close them. Cook the Waffles, turning them when browned on one side. Put them on a hot dish, strew caster sugar over, and serve. (6) Put 1 teacupful of milk in a saucepan with J tea- cupful of yeast, warm it, and then strain it. Put 6oz. of finely-sifted flour into a basin, then pour in gradually the milk and yeast, stirring well at the same time. When quite smooth, stand the basin containing the dough in a warm place to rise. Beat the yolks of four eggs together with the grated peel of one lemon and 6oz. of slightly- wanned butter. When the dough has well risen, mix the above ingredients with it. Beat the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth and add them, also I table- spoonful of whipped cream. Set the mixture near the fire, and let it rise again. Heat the waffle-irons, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, fill them with the mixture, and cook ; the Waffles should be done to a good colour. Place them on a dish, sift caster sugar over, and serve. French. Waffles.—Put 9oz. of flour in a basin with I teacup- ful of caster sugar, 1 table-spoonful of vanilla sugar, 1 wineglassful of noyau, and the yolks of eight eggs , when well mixed, stir in the eight beaten whites of the eggs and 1 pint of cream. Cook the Waffles as directed for Flemish Waffles, No. 2. German Waffles.—Make lib. loz. of sifted flour and 4 pint of yeast into a paste with as much warm milk as will make it drop from the spoon freely without being too thin, and put it into a warm place to rise. When well risen, mix into it the well beaten yolks of fourteen eggs, the whites of fourteen eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and the grated rinds of two lemons ; when these are well mixed in, pour over lib. loz. of butter warmed but not made very hot, stir it gently with a wooden spoon, and put it again into a warm place to rise a second time. When it has risen sufficiently, put a frying-pan over the fire, rub it with butter, and fry the Waffles over a brisk fire, browning them on both sides. The paste should be very gently lifted off the top with a spoon and placed in the frying-pan ; the mass of the paste must not on any account be disturbed during the operation, nor should the spoon be plunged into it. When the Waffles are all fried, serve them hot, sprinkled with sugar and powdered cinnamon. Ingleside Waffles.—Make 1 pint of cornmeal mush ; while hot put in a small lump of butter and 1 dessert- Waffles—continued. spoonful of salt, and set the mush aside to cool. Mean while beat separately till very light the whites and yolks of four eggs ; add the eggs to the mush, stir in gradually lqt. of wheaten flour, pour in 4 pint of butter- milk or sour cream in which has been dissolved 4 tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and lastly bring to the consistency of thin batter by the addition of sweet milk. Waffle-irons should be put on to heat an hour in advance, so that they may be in a proper condition for baking as soon as the batter is ready. Have a brisk fire, butter the irons thoroughly, but with nicety, and bake quickly. Only half fill the waffle-irons with batter, so that the WaiHes may have room to rise. Quick Waffles.—Mix lqt. of flour with sufficient colvl milk to make a thick batter ; work in six beaten eggs, 1 table-spoonful of melted butter, and 1 teaspoonful of salt; Jib. of sugar and half a nutmeg may be added to improve. Bake in waffle-irons, and serve hot. Raised Waffles.—(1) At night mix together 1 pint of lukewarm milk in which 2 table-spoonfuls of butter have been melted, 2 table-spoonfuls of liquid yeast or half a small cake of compressed yeast dissolved in 1 gill of water, two eggs well beaten, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and lib. of flour. When this batter is thoroughly mixed, cover it, and keep it overnight in a warm place. In the morning heat a waffle-iron, butter it, put in the batter without stirring it down, and then bake the Waffles. Serve with butter and powdered sugar. (2) Sift 1 pint of flour, and mix with it 1J table-spoon- fuls of liquid yeast, 1J breakfast-cupfuls of warm milk, and loz. of butter that has been slightly warmed and beaten until creamy. Work the whole up smoothly, cover with a cloth, and set it to rise in a warm temper- ature all night. On the following morning beat three eggs well, mix with them 4 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda that has been dissolved in a small quantity of warm water, and stir them in with the above mixture. Make the waffle-irons hot, butter them, and three-parts fill each with the batter. Bake them until lightly browned, being very careful not to scorch them, then turn them out, and finish the rest of the batter. Russian Waffles.—Put Jib. of butter into a basin, melt it, and beat well with a spoon until it is quite thick. Add the yolks of eight eggs, one at a time, working one well in before another is added; when the mixture has the consistency of cream, sift in gradually Jib. of dried flour and 2oz. of vanilla sugar; then add the whites of the eight eggs whipped to a stiff froth and 1 breakfast- cupful of well-whisked and drained cream. Put the mixture in a deep waffle-mould, dust over a lit+le vanilla sugar, and bake them. Take them out when done, let them get cold, divide them transversely in halves, put a layer of them at the bottom of a dish, cover with apricot marmalade, and continue in this way until all the Waffles are used up, keeping them as much in the form of a pyramid as possible. Pour over some cream that has been well whipped, drained, sweetened to taste, and mixed with a little flavouring of any description. Decorate the cream with a little more of the same, squeezing it through a cornet, and serve. Waffles a la Casalesry. -Press and work Jib. of fresh liutter in a cloth to extract the milk, put it in a warm basin, and work it round with the hand till creamy; then mix in Jib. of sifted flour and a piece of yeast the size of a walnut; when well mixed, keep the preparation in a warm place for half-an hour or until well risen. Mix J pint of whipped cream with the mixture and a little salt. Heat the waffle-irons, and finish the Waffles as for Flemish Waffles (2). Waffles made with Sour Cream.—Slightly warm Jib. of butter and beat it until creamy; then mix with it the beaten yolks of six eggs and J pint of thick sour cream ; mix in gradually Jib. of flour, 1 teaspoonful of blanched and pounded bitter almonds, and a small quantity of grated lemon-peel or nutmeg. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add them to the above mixture, also 4 wineglassful of rum. Stir the batter until quite smooth. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 C VOL II.