710 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads V eal—continued. of butter or clarified fat in a stew pan, and place it over the fire; when boiling, put in the cones, and fry them until nicely browned. Fry in butter some grated bread- crumb until nicely browned, and put them on a hot dish. Drain the cones, arrange them on the top of the crumbs, garnisli with a border o' fried parsley (see Fig. 957), and serve. Veal Country Captain.—Warm 4oz. of fat in a frying- pan, add \ teaspoonful of chillies and \ teaspoonful of turmeric both finely ground, and fry them to a light brown ; then add a shoulder of Veal, cut up into small pieces, and cook until the meat is tender. Turn the curry out on to a dish, and serve. The shoulder of Veal should be partially boiled or roasted before being used ; or after it has been put in the pan, add 1 teacupful of water, which will achieve the same purpose. Veal Cromeskies.—Cut some thick slices off a minion fillet of Veal, put them in a frying-pan with some bacon fat, and fry them, keeping them rather underdone than otherwise. Leave the slices of Veal till cold, then season them with salt and pepper, and cut them into small squares. Cut into little bits a small piece of cooked ox- tongue, a sweetbread, and half a calf’s brain, and mix them with the Veal. Finely chop four large white onions, put them in a stewpan with a bay-leaf and a little butter, and fry them till nicely browned; season with salt and pepper and J teaspoonful of sugar, dredge 1 table- poonful of flour over them, and pour in J pint of gravy. Boil the onions gently till cooked, then put in with them the salpi9on of meat and a little grated nutmeg and cayenne pepper. In three or four minutes’ time, turn the mixture out on to a baking-sheet, spread it out with the blade of a knife to a square shape about Jin. thick, then leave it till cool. Shape some very thin slices of ham into oblong squares; divide the above mixture into pieces the same shape and size, put each one between two pieces of the ham, and press them lightly. Prepare a batter for frying, and melt some lard in a frying-pan. Dip the cromeskies in the batter, then plunge them into the boiling lard, and fry them till nicely browned. Drain the cromeskies, arrange them in a pyramid on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve at once. Veal Croquettes.—(1) Take some cold Veal, cut off the fat and skin, and cut the Veal up very fine, seasoning with onion-juice, celery salt, chopped parsley, cayenne, salt, and pepper. Oysters parboiled and drained may be used, taking half the bulk of them to the quantity of meat. Mix well and moisten with well beaten egg and white sauce. Make the paste into the shape of rolls, and put them first into bread- or cracker-crumb’, then egg, anti then crumbs again; plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until done and of a light brown colour. See Croquettes. (2) Trim off the fat and outside part of some cold Veal, and mince the lean finely. Put loz. of butter and 1 heaped table- poonful of Hour in a saucepan, and stir them over the fire until well mixed, moistening with a small quantity of clear stock, and stirring it in smoothly ; then put in the minced Veal with some minced ham and onions, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity each of finelv-minced parsley and powdered sweet herbs. Stir the mixture over the fire until hot, then move it to the side and stir in the yolks of two eggs that have been well beaten with the juice of a small lemon and strained. Turn the mixture on to a dish, let it get cold, then divide it into small equal portions, and mould them into balls, using plenty of breadcrumb', while performing the operation. Egg-and- breadcrumb the balls again, and fry them in boiling lard until nicely browned. Drain the balls, pile them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. Veal Cutlets.—(1) Trim some thinly-cut Veal cutlets (see Fig. 958) to a nice shape, flatten them with a cutlet-bat (see Fig. 959), and dust them over with salt and pepper. V eal—continued. Mince together in equal quantities some pieces of Veal and fat bacon, mix them with a third of their bulk of finely-grated breadcrumb, J table-spoonful of finely- minced shallot, and a moderate quantity of powdered sweet herbs; bind the mixture with beaten egg, and, when well mixed, cover the cutlets completely with it, smoothing it over with the flat blade of a knife. Roll the cutlets in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and fry them until nicely browned m boiling lard. Drain them, put them on a hot dish, pour a nicely-flavoured rich brown gravy round them, garnish with cut lemons, and serve. (2) Procure the cutlets from a neck of Veal, each one having a bone with it, and trim them to a nice shape. Trim as nearly as possible to the same shape as many slices of lean bacon as there are cutlets. Season the Veal Fig. 959. Cutlet-bat. cutlets with salt and pepper on both sides, and fry them until nicely browned. Fry the slices of bacon separately. Chop finely a few shallots, put them in a stewpan with a small lump of butter, and fry them until lightly browned ; then strain off the fat, pour over J teacupful of white wine vinegar, and boil it until nearly all reduced. Put Joz. of butter and 1 teaspoonful of flour into another stewpan, and stir them over the fire until well mixed ; then pour in gradually f breakfast-cupful of clear stock that has been freed from fat, put in a bay-leaf with a few sprigs of thyme, a few cloves and crushed pepper- corns, and salt to taste, and boil it gently at the side of the fire for nearly half-an-hour. At the end of that time, strain the flavoured stock in with the shallots, put in a moderate quantity of finely-minced parsley, and stir the whole over the fire until boiling again. Arrange the cutlets of Veal and bacon in alternate order on a hot