720 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. pressing it on to the strip of paste laid on the edge of the dish. Make a hole in the centre of the crnst with the blade of a knife. Bake for an hour, and just before serving pour 1 teacupful of cream through the hole in the top by means of a funnel. Set the pie-dish on a flat dish covered with a folded napkin (see Fig. 967), and serve. (0) Fill a pie-dish with alternate layers of slices of the meat oft' a knuckle of Veal and ham, putting on each layer of Veal a seasoning of pepper and salt and a few slices of hard-boiled eggs. Pour in some gravy made from Veal- bones flavoured with a little mushroom powder and a very little cucumber ketchup, put on a cover of either short-crust or puli' paste, and bake. (6) Put into a pie-dish two sweetbreads sliced and seasoned with a mixture of salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and a very little powdered clove, and put in also some steaks cut oil' a knuckle of Veal. The steaks should be cut without any bone, and they should be seasoned with the same mixture of spice as the sweetbreads. Put in among the meat the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs and a few oysters. When the dish is filled, cover the meat with thin slices of ham, and half till the dish with stock made of Veal-bones. Lay a strip of puff paste on the edge of the dish wide enough to cover it, brush this paste over with a little water, put a cover of puff paste over the pie, trim the edges, and press them lightly together; cut a hole or slit in the middle of the crust, and conceal it by laying an ornament made of the paste on top. When the pie is baked and taken from the oven, pour in enough veal gravy, mixed with a little cream and nicely thick- ened with flour, to fill up the pie. It may be poured in through a funnel inserted in the hole cut in the pie-crust. Replace the ornament when the gravy is in. (7) Cut into small pieces the meat of a cold cooked loin of Veal, and season it with salt, pepper, grated lemon- peel, and nutmeg, and a moderate quantity of finely- minced parsley. Stew the bones of the Veal in 1 pint of stock until the liquor is reduced to a little less than f pint, then strain it, pour it into a stewpan in which has been mixed loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour, and add 1 teaspoonful of lemon pickle, and about h wineglassful of white wine. Take in equal quantities some loin of Veal-fat and flour, rub them together till smooth, then mix to a paste with water. Roll the paste out on a floured board, fold it over, roll it out again, and line the sides of a buttered pie-dish with some of it. When the gravy has boiled and thickened, mix it with the Veal and turn it into the pie-dish. Roll out the trim- mings of the paste into a thin flat, cover the pie with it, moisten and press the edges together, and bake it in a moderate oven. To glaze the pie, brush it over with beaten white of egg before baking it. (8) Select a piece of knuckle of Veal with the gristle adhering to it, put it in a saucepan with Veal stock to cover, and stew it until like a jelly. Let the meat cool, then cut it as well as the gristle into small pieces. Butter a mould, put in the hard-boiled yolks, then the pieces of meat and gristle ; cut the whites of twelve eggs into rings, and lay them ornamentally in the mould ; put here and there a few small pieces of beetroot, the red part of a carrot, and some green pickles ; season well with grated nutmeg, salt and pepper, and moisten to height with the gravy in which the Veal was boiled. Put the pie in the oven, and bake it for half-an hour. When cooked, leave it until quite cold. Spread a fancy dish-paper or a napkin over a dish, turn the shape out of the mould on to it, garnish with a few sprigs of well-washed and dried parsley, and serve. (9) Use cold cooked Veal, trim oil' all the fat and skin, mince the lean as finely as possible, and mix with it about a quarter o its quantity of finely minced bacon, the grated rind of one lemon, small or large, according to the quantity of the meat, and a small quantity of the juice. Season the mixture to taste with salt, mace, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Butter the edges of a pie-dish, and line them with a good puff paste. Beat the yolks of three or four eggs up with the mince, put it into the pie-dish, cover with a flat of the same paste, trim it neatly round the edges, moisten them with a little V eal—continued. beaten white of egg, and press them together. Bake the pie in a moderate oven, and serve it either hot or cold. Veal Pie a la Franqaise.—Trim off the skin from some cold remains of roast Veal, and mince the meat as finely as possible with the third of its quantity of ham. Open and beard two dozen oysters, mix them with the Veal, season the mixture with powdered mace, grated lemon- peel, salt and pepper, and a few drops of mushroom ketchup, and moisten it with the strained liquor of the oysters and a moderate quantity of rich brown gravy. Prepare a nice puff paste, line a buttered pie-dish with it, put in the above mixture, cover with a flat of paste, trim it oft' neatly round the edges, moisten them with a little water, and pinch them together. Bake the pie for about half-an-hour, or until the paste is cooked, and serve. Veal Pot-Pie.—(1) Cut 21b. of the breast of Veal into pieces about lin. square. After wiping the pieces of meat with a damp towel, put them over the fire in 2qts. of cold water, with three cloves, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a dozen peppercorns or a small red pepper, and let it slowly reach the boiling-point, removing all scum as it rises. When the broth is quite free from scum, cover the saucepan containing it, and set it where its contents can simmer gently for about two hours. Meanwhile peel lqt. of small potatoes, and lay them in cold water; at the end of two hours put them with the Veal to boil. Then quickly sift together lqt. of flour, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and mix them to a soft dough with about 1 pint t f cold milk or water, using no more than is required to just wet the flour. Put this dough at once into the saucepan with the Veal and potatoes, either in one flat piece laid on the top of these ingredients, or in table-spoonfuls, wetting the spoon in the broth before using it to form each dumpling. Cover the saucepan, and boil its contents steadily for twenty minutes. Then serve the pot-pie hot. If the gravy is liked rather rich, stir into it the yolks of a couple of raw eggs before sending to table. In the old-fashioned pot-pie, which was cooked by the general heat of a moderate lire of wood, the entire bottom and sides of the dinner-pot in which it was made were lined with the crust, and the meat, already partly cooked, was put into the crust. With the moderate heat it was possible to brown the crust without burning it, but with our modern cooking apparatus this would be a doubtful experiment to attempt. (2) Cut up 2lb. or 3lb. of Veal from the breast or scrag into small pieces or chops, and put it into a saucepan, adding water to cover and ^lb. of salt pork, or 1 table- spoonful of salt. Boil gently, removing the scum as it rises, until the meat is tender. Place the whole in a dish to cool, and make a crust as follows: Take lqt. of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of ammonia or bicarbonate of soda, and a small piece of butter, and mix with milk. Roll out the dough, and line the inside of the pot with it, reserving enough to cover, and also a small quantity to be cut into squares, to be placed inside. Strain the water in which the meat was boiled, and put it in the pot with the meat. If there is not enough to nearly reach the top of the side crust, add more water, drop in the bits of paste or dough, dredge in 1 table-spoonful of flour, add Jib. of butter in pieces, put in a large teaspoonful of pepper, then lay some skewers across from one side of the crust to the other, put on the top crust, and make a slit in the centre to let out the steam. Cover the pot close, set it over a moderate fire, and cook for three quarters-of an hour, taking care that the fire is not so fierce as to burn it. Half-a-dozen small potatoes may be put into the pie with the meat. Dish the top crust up first, then take up the meat and gravy on another dish, and lastly the brown crust from the sides on a dish with some of the gravy over; or take the meat into the centre of the dish, put the crust round it, and pour the gravy over. Veal-and-Fotato Rissoles.—(1) Boil lib. of potatoes till soft, then strain and mash them. Finely chop some cold