737 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. V enison—continued. with loz. of clarified butter, and cook for ten minutes; then add 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, stirring well. Moisten with li pints of broth, also the marinade liquor or juice, well strained. Season with 1 pinch of salt and h pinch of pepper, and cook for forty minutes longer. Arrange the civet on a hot dish, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve. Tillets of Venison a la Portugaise.—Skin and trim two minion fillets of deer, and lay them on a dish. Fry some chopped vegetables, such as onions, turnips, &c., in butter, and. pour in sufficient vinegar to cover the fillets. When the vegetables are well soaked with the vinegar, season it with salt, pepper, cloves, and spices. Pour the marinade over the fillets, and leave them four hours. Drain the fillets, lard them with fillets of bacon, lay them on a buttered baking-sheet, dredge salt over them, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for about half-an-hour. Meanwhile prepare the following sauce: Finely chop the peel of two lemons and two oranges, put them in a saucepan with a little water, boil them till tender, and then strain off the water. Pour 4 pint of wine into a stewpan, and boil it till reduced to half its original quantity ; then mix with it 1 teacupful of good gravy and the boiled peel, and boil it up again. Mix 1 table-spoonful of potato-flour to a smooth cream with a small quantity of water, stir it in with the sauce, and continue boiling it for a few minutes, keeping it well stirred. Mix 1 teacupful of washed currants with the sauce and 2oz. of blanched and shredded sweet almonds, squeeze in the juice of the two oranges, and add 1 pinch of cayenne and a small quantity of grated pomegranate- peel. Move the sauce to the side of the fire till wanted. When the fillets are cooked (they must not be dry), cut them into slices, lay them on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and serve without delay. Fillet of Venison a la Saint Hubert.—Lard with strips of bacon some thick slices cut from a fillet of Veni- son. Put a lump of butter into a saucepan, and warm it over the fire; then put in the slices of Venison, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt and pepper, and cover them with red wine and stock in equal quantities. Stew the Venison by the side of the fire, then stir in a little brown thicken- ing, and add a lump of sugar and some sliced gherkins. When cooked, turn the Venison on to a hot dish, and serve it without delay. Fried Venison Chops.—Season the chops with pepper and salt, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them over a clear fire, turning them often. Trim some mushrooms, put them in a small saucepan with h pint of brown gravy, season it with pepper and salt, and let them simmer gently while the chops are cooking. In about twenty minutes’ time the chops should be cooked; then put them on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve. Fried Venison Cutlets—Trim the cutlets, season them with pepper and salt, and brush them over with warmed butter. Dust the cutlets lightly over with flour, then roll them in beaten egg and cover them thickly with bread- crumbs. Put a lump of lard in a deep frying-pan, and when boiling put in the cutlets, and fry them for ten or fifteen minutes, turning them when done on one side. When cooked, drain the cutlets on paper in front of the fire for a minute or two, then put them on a hot dish, pour some financiere sauce round, and serve them while very hot. Fried Venison Steak.—(1) Put a thick steak of Venison in the frying-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, and brown it quickly on both sides, seasoning it with salt and pepper. Serve it with the gravy it yields and red-cun-ant jelly poured over it. See Fig. 1003. (2) Cut the steak into nice-sized pieces, beat them well with a steak-beater, put them in a frying-pan with a little lard, and fry them till nicely browned. Prepare the gravy with some trimmings of Venison, mix a small quantity of milk with it, and season it with salt, pepper, and a lump of sugar. Work a small lump of butter with a For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, VOL. II. Venison—continued. little flour, then mix it in the gravy, and stir it over the fire till thick. Put the slices of Venison on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve. Fig. 1003. Fried Venison Steaks. Frizzled Venison.—Cut into slices as thin as possible about lib. of Venison from the leg, or from any lean part. Put into a frying-pan over the fire 1 heaped table-spoonful of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly, and when they are hot put in the Venison, seasoning it rather highly with pepper and salt. Cook it for about five minutes, stirring it frequently, and serve at once. The Venison may be frizzled at the table in a chafing-dish. Haricot of Venison.—Cut the flesh off a shoulder of Venison into pieces about 2in. square. Put the pieces in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them over a quick fire till well browned; then drain off the fat, dredge a small quantity of flour over, and stir it till well mixed. Season the meat with pepper and salt, cover it with water or broth, and stir it over the fire till it boils; then move to the side of the fire, and keep it well skimmed. Wash four carrots, and with a vegetable-cutter cut the light part into balls, and boil them in salted water for half-an-hour. Cut a turnip up in the same way, and boil for twenty minutes. Strain the vegetables, put them into the stewpan with the Venison, add 1 wineglassful of port wine and 2 table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly, and finish cooking. Turn the haricot on to a very hot dish, and serve it immediately. Hashed Venison.—(1) If there is not sufficient Venison gravy available, boil the bones and trimmings of the cooked joint with some -whole vegetables and a little allspice until the vegetables are nearly cooked enough. Set a stewpan over the fire, and put a piece of butter into it; when that melts add to it as much flour as will take it up, and stir it -well; then strain over it by degrees the stock made from the bones and trimmings of the joints, stirring and mixing it well with the flour. Continue stirring till it boils, and boil for ten minutes; then add to it some red-currant jelly, give it a boil up, and skim it. Cut up the vegetables into slices and add them to the hash. Put in the slices of Venison, draw the stewpan to the side of the fire, as it must not boil after the meat is put in, and let it remain till the Venison is thoroughly hot. Garnish the dish with sippets of toast. Serve as hot as possible. (2) Take all the best pieces of meat from some cold Venison, and cut them into thin slices; put the remainder with the bones and a small onion into a stewpan, moisten to height with cold water, and stew gently at the side of the fire for an hour-and-a-half. Put loz. of butter in another stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir them over the fire until mixed; then strain in the liquor from the bones, put in about 2 table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly, and boil gently for half-an-hour longer. If there is any gravy left with the Venison, put that in also. When the sauce is ready, put in the slices of Venison with 3 table- spoonfuls of port wine, and keep it at the edge of the fire without boiling. When 'the Venison is hot through, turn the hash on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast, or small triangles of bread that have been fried in butter, and serve. (3) Put four cloves, one onion, and half a finely-chopped anchovy into a saucepan, pour in 1 teacupful of port wine, 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and 1 table- spoonful of browning, and boil it. Cut some cold roast Venison into thin slices, put it in with the wine, and boil it for five minutes. Turn the hash on to a hot dish, garnish it with small egg balls, and serve it with a glass' dish of red-currant jelly. Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 B