TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 743 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Venison—continued. Deer-Head-and-Feet Soup.—Skin and bone the head of a young deer, put it in a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover, and let it boil for fifteen minutes. Take it out, dry it on a cloth, and scrape the meat. Cut the head into about four pieces, put them in a saucepan with a raw ham-bone and the skinned and blanched feet, about 21b. of raw veal, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a moderate quantity of vegetables, such as onions, carrots, &c. Pour in 3qts. of rich broth and \ pint of white wine. Leave the soup over the fire until it boils, then move it to the side, skim well, and keep it simmering. When the meat is tender, cut it into small squares, and put them into a stewpan with a small quantity of Madeira wine. Strain the broth, pour it back into the saucepan, and keep it hot. Chop one onion and one carrot, and a small piece of celery ; put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter and about 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped ham, and fry them. Dredge the vegetables over with a little less than 1 table-spoonful of arrowroot, and pour the soup in gradually. Continue stirring it over the fire until it boils again, then move it to the side; put in a small bunch of thyme, marigold, and laurel, and simmer for half-an-hour. Skim and strain the soup, pour it over the meat and Maderia wine, add a few chopped mushrooms, and boil for ten minutes. Before turning it into the soup-tureen, skim the soup again, and season to taste with salt and cayenne. Serve very hot. Fried Deer’s Liver.—Wash the liver in plenty of cold water, cut it into rather thick slices, and trim them to the shape of veal cutlets; dredge them over with Hour, and season with salt and pepper. Put a lump of butter in a frying- pan, melt it, then lay in the slices of liver and fry them till nicely browned, turning them when done on one side to brown the other. Fry in another pan at the same time some thin slices of ham. When cooked, arrange the slices of liver, with a slice of ham between each, on a hot dish. Pour a little water in the frying-pan in which the liver was fried, stir it over the fire, then mix it with some Venison sauce; pour all over the liver, and serve. Roasted Deer's Heart.—Soak the heart in cold water for several hours, wash away the blood, and dry with a cloth. Stuff it with veal stuffing, sew it up, rub over some butter, and cover with flour-and-water paste. Wrap it in paper tied on with strings, put it on a spit, and set it before a clear fire to roast for two hours, basting with fat all the time it is roasting. Remove the paper and paste about fifteen minutes before it is done, and dredge with Hour. Melt some butter on a dish, and with a spoon baste the heart well with it. When browned and thoroughly cooked, place it on a hot dish, pour over some rich sauce, and serve red-currant jelly and French beans separately. VENTILATION.—Of all departments in a well- regulated household that cry aloud for Ventilation, the kitchen, pantry, and larder stand pre-eminent. Unfortu- nately many houses constructed on modern principles provide no exit for the smell-laden air of the kitchen except through the halls, passages, and staircases of the rest of the house; whereas, if due attention were paid to this important feature, the house would at no time teem with the odours of cooking, which are not always appetising, but all that are generated would pass into the outer air direct through ventilators provided for this purpose. A well-ventilated kitchen is a pleasure to the cook, and conducive to the health of all concerned in or about it. Open windows are the best form of ventilators, but it is difficult to overcome prejudice, and many cooks believe that by cooling or ventilating the kitchen the heat neces- sary for cooking is carried off. This is a very common error, and one that will continue until we arrive at a period of culinary enlightenment that is certainly at present only looming in the distance. Ventilators should only be inserted in the walls either communicating with the outside of the house or the chimney: the ascending draught of the chimney draws away the heated foul air that accumulates at the top of the kitchen. When windows are opened, they should be pulled down from the Ventilation—continued. top; but as some kitchen windows open into pantries or passages, some form of independent Ventilation should be adopted. See Air. VENT-PEGS.—Sharp, conical-shaped pieces of wood that are used for stopping up the vent-hole of the barrel. VENUS PUDDING.—See Puddings. VERJUICE '(FV. Verjus).—The name given to the sour juice of crab-apples, unripe grapes, &c., much used in French cookery, in lieu of lemon-juice, sorrel, or vinegar. It may be obtained by simply pressing out the juice, and straining it. VERMICELLI (FV. Vermicelle; Ger. Fadennudeln). —The literal meaning of this term is little worms, which Vermicelli resembles in a marked degree. It is made of Italian paste pressed through fine apertures and dried. It is used in this country principally for puddings and soups. Vermicelli a la Reine.—Blanch the Vermicelli in boiling water, then drain it; put it into a saucepan with rich broth, season to taste, and let it boil gently till cooked. Beat the yolks of eight eggs well, and mix a little cream with them; pour them into the soup, and stir them by the side of the fire for a few minutes, but do not let them boil. Turn the Vermicelli into a tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast. Vermicelli Cake.—Boil 2oz. of Vermicelli for twelve minutes ; when well done, drain it, and add it to a short paste made of Mb. of flour, Goz. of butter, the whites of two eggs, and h saltspoonful of salt. Pound the paste and Vermicelli well together in a mortar, and have ready a baking-pan covered with a sheet of buttered paper; lay the paste on top, spreading it out about Gin. square. Put it in the oven for twenty minutes. Remove it, detach it from the paper, lay it on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve hot. Vermicelli Croquettes.—Boil Goz. of Vermicelli in 1 h pints of milk till tender and it begins to thicken, keeping it constantly stirred all the time. Rub 111), of loaf sugar over the rind of a Seville orange, and when the Vermicelli is cooked add that to it, also 2oz. of fresh butter; keep the mixture well stirred over the fire for a few minutes, then move it to the side and mix in the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs. The mixture should not boil after the eggs are added, but should be stirred by the side of the fire till thick, then turned out on to a dish and left till cold. Divide the cold mixture into small pieces, and mould them into any shape fancied; dip each piece separately into well-beaten eggs, then into finely-grated breadcrumb, smooth them over with the blade of a knife, then egg-arid- breadcrumb them again. Put the croquettes into a frying- basket and plunge them into a deep pan of boiling lard. When nicely browned all over, drain the croquettes on a cloth till all the fat has run off, then arrange them pyramidically on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, sift caster sugar over, and serve them. Vermicelli Fatties (Turkish).—Roll out about 1 Fib. of puff paste as thin as possible, and cut six rounds out of it. Fig. 1008. Vermicelli Patties. Butter a baking-tin, lay three pieces of the paste on it, one over the other, then put a layer of Vermicelli on them. Warm 5oz. of butter, pour it over the Vermicelli, then cover with the remaining pieces of paste; prick here and