TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 692 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <L-c., referred to, see under their special heads. V eal— continued. and a bunch of sweet herbs, put in the Veal, dust it over with salt and pepper, and moisten to height with clear stock. When boiling, move it to the side of the lire, and let it simmer gently for a couple of hours, basting the top occasionally with its cooking-liquor. When the Veal is cooked, strain off its cooking-liquor into a basin, and skim off all the fat. Put a small lump of butter in a stewpan with about J table spoonful of flour, stir them over the fire till well mixed, then work in the above mixture, and boil the whole until thickly reduced, stirring at the same time. Prepare a border of sorrel for the meat as follows : Wash plenty of sorrel in several waters, boil it in salted water until quite tender, then turn it on to a fine hair sieve. When the sorrel is well drained, pass it through a sieve. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan over the fire, and when melted mix in Joz. of flour and then the sorrel; toss it about over the fire for a few minutes, then move it to the side. Beat the yolk of an egg up with 2 table-spoonfuls of water, stir it in with the sorrel, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Press the sorrel in a border-mould for a few minutes, and stand it in a bain- marie. Glaze the larded part of the Veal under a sala mander, and put it on a hot dish; pour the sauce under it, turn the border of sorrel out of the mould on to the dish round the Veal, and serve while hot. Fricandeau of Veal with Puree of Sorrel.—Cut a slice of about 311). from a leg of Veal, remove the sinews, and lard the surface with fat bacon or pork, using a medium-sized larding-needle. Place it in a sautti-pan in which there are already pieces of pork skin, one sliced onion, one sliced carrot, and a bouquet garni. Season with 1 table-spoon- ful of salt, cover with buttered paper, and let it colour slightly for five minutes on the stove. Then moisten with J pint of white broth, and cook for an hour, basting occasionally. Serve with J pint of puree of sorrel on the dish, placing the Veal on top. Fricandeau of Veal with Spinach.—(1) Prepare the same as for Fricandeau of Veal with Puree of Sorrel, using hot spinach instead of the sorrel. (2) Procure a nice fillet of Veal, which trim with a sharp knife, and lard closely on one side with thin strips of bacon. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon, then put in a layer of sliced onions and carrots and a bunch of sweet herbs; put in the Veal, the larded side upwards, season with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of spices, and moisten to height with clear stock. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently until the meat is tender, basting the top of the meat occasionally with its cooking-liquor. When cooked, strain the liquor into a basin and skim off as much of the fat as possible. Put Joz. of butter into a stewpan with J table-spoonful of flour, and stir them over the fire until smoothly mixed; then stir in the gravy, and let it boil until reduced to almost a glaze. Boil some well-washed spinach in a small quantity of water, and when tender drain it thoroughly; next press it through a fine hair sieve. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with h table-spoonful of flour, mix them over the fire, then put in the spinach; moisten with 2 or 3 table-spoon fuls of milk, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Stir it until thoroughly hot, brown the larded part of the meat under a salamander, place it on a hot dish, pour the gravy over it, pile the spinach up round it, and serve. Fig. 941. Fried Tendons of Veal. Fried Tendons of Veal.—Cut the tendons into nice-sized pieces, trimming them carefully; put them in a basin with vinegar and water in equal quantities, and let them soak Veal—continued. for an hour or two. Drain the tendons, dust them over with flour, pepper, and salt, and fry in butter or lard. When nicely browned, drain the tendons, put them on an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 942), and serve. Fried Veal Chops.—Remove all the bones and sinews from the chops, mince the meat very finely, and mix with it two-thirds of its quantity of streaky bacon also finely chopped; season the mixture to taste with pepper, salt, and spices. Cut some pieces of caul in the shape of chops, spread the minced mixture over them, and bury a bone in every one so that the end only will be seen. Strew grated breadcrumb over the chops with a few sweet herbs. Melt a large lump of lard or clarified fat in a flat stewpan, put in the chops, and fry them. When cooked and nicely browned, drain, and put them on a hot dish; garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Fried Veal Cutlets.—(1) Trim the cutlets and dust them over with salt and pepper. Chop the trimmings of the cutlets with an equal quantity of fat bacon, mix some bread- crumbs, chopped shallots, and sweet herbs with them, season with salt and pepper, and bind them together with beaten egg. Cover the cutlets with the above mixture, brush them over with beaten egg, and sprinkle thickly with breadcrumbs. But a lump of butter or lard in a frying pan, melt it, then put in the cutlets, and fry them on both sides till of a rich golden colour. When cooked, put the cutlets on a hot dish, garnish with slices of lemon, pour a little rich brown gravy over them, and serve with a sauceboatful of the sauce. (2) Procure the required quantity of Veal cutlets, and soak them in salted water for a short time. When ready to cook, take them out, wipe dry, and sprinkle with flour, salt, and pepper; melt some lard in a frying-pan, put the cutlets in, and fry them ; when lightly browned, strain off the lard and pour in a little water, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and a few pieces of celery. Turn the cutlets frequently, and when they are done dish them with the gravy over, and serve. (3) Trim the cutlets, and beat them lightly on both sides; dust them over with salt and pepper, dip them in beaten egg, then roll them till well covered in breadcrumbs. Put a lump of butter into a flat stewpan, melt it, then put in the cutlets, and fry them on both sides. Put some white asparagus that has been boiled in salted water and dried on a cloth on a hot dish, and when cooked drain the cutlets and lean them against the asparagus. Put Jib. of butter in the pan that the cutlets were cooked in, with 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, and fry them. Pour the bread- crumbs and butter over the cutlets, and serve. Fried Veal Cutlets and Green Peas.—Divide a small neck of Veal into cutlets, trim them nicely, and season with salt and pepper. Cut as many slices of lean bacon as there are cutlets, and trim them as nearly as possible to the same shape. Put 1 pint of green peas (bottled will do) in a saucepan of water, with a bunch of mint and a lump of salt, and boil them quickly. When the peas are cooked, remove the mint, strain off the water, put a lump of butter in with them, and toss them about over the fire. Fry the pieces of bacon lightly, put a lump of butter in a flat stewpan, and when it boils put in the cutlets, and fry them until equally browned on both sides. Drain the cutlets, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, alternating each one with a slice of bacon, and strew over some finely-minced thyme and parsley mixed in equal quantities. Pile the peas in the centre, and serve. Fried Veal Cutlets with Tomatoes.—Cut about 2lb. of Veal cutlets from the leg into small slices, season them with pepper and salt, roll them in cracker-dust, then dip them in beaten eggs, and again in cracker-dust. Have ready on the fire a frying-pan containing smoking fat Jin. deep ; put the Veal into the hot fat, and fry brown on both sides. While the Veal is frying, wipe half-a-dozen large firm tomatoes with a damp cloth, slice them about Jin. thick, roll them in flour, season with pepper and salt, and fry brown in the pan with the Veal. Serve the Veal on a dish, with the tomatoes laid neatly in a circle round.