680 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. V anilla—continued. which must he added gradually. Stir the above mixture over the fire till thick, then move the saucepan to the side, put in 1 pinch of salt .and the yolks of three eggs, adding them one at a time, and beating well. Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, mix them in with the souffle, flavour with a small quantity of essence of Vanilla, then turn all into a buttered mould. Stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to a little more than half its height, and steam the contents for half an hour. When cooked, turn the souffle on to a hot dish, poui- some vane sauce round, and serve at once. (4) Put loz. of butter into a lined saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and stir them over the fire until mixed ; then add gradually \ pint of milk and sugar to taste. Stir the mixture over the fire until boiling and thickened. Afterwards leave it until almost cold, then mix in the beaten yolks of four eggs, and flavour to taste with essence of Vanilla. Whisk the whites of six eggs to a thick foam, and add them lightly to the above mixture. Butter a mould large enough to hold the mixture and to allow room for rising, pour the souffle in, dust it over with caster sugar, and place it in a brisk oven. When well risen and browned on the top, take the souffle out of the oven, pin a napkin round the mould, and serve without delay. (5) Slightly warm 4oz. of butter but without oiling; beat it well until creamy, then mix 4oz. of caster sugar with it and the yolks of six eggs, adding the latter one at a time, and beating the mixture well after each addition. Continue to beat the mixture for twenty minutes or more, then mix in the juice of half a lemon and a very small quantity of powdered Vanilla. Whisk the whites of the six eggs to a stiff snow, and stir them gently into the above mixture. The whites of the eggs should always be added at the very last. Butter a mould, pour in the mixture, leaving plenty of room for it to rise, and bake in a slow oven. When lightly coloured and well risen, dust caster sugar over the souffle, and serve immediately. (6) Put 2oz. of butter into a lined stewpan, melt it, and stir in with a wooden spoon, 2oz. each of flour and Vanilla sugar and 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. Stir it over the lire until boiling and thickened, then turn it into a basin and continue stirring until cold. Separate the yolks and whites of six eggs; beat the yolks, and add them to the above mixture; whisk the whites to a stiff snow, and stir them in lightly at the last. Butter a mould, pour the mixture into it, and bake in a brisk oven. When cooked, turn the contents of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. (7) Boil a pod of Vanilla in b pint of milk; put \ teacupful of potato-flour in a basin, and mix it smoothly with a little cold milk; then stir in gradually the boiling milk and sweeten to taste with caster .sugar; pour it into the saucepan and stir over the fire until boiling and thickened. Leave the souffle mixture until nearly cold, then remove the Vanilla and work in the beaten yolks of four eggs. Whisk the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly with the above; turn it into a souffle-mould, sift caster sugar over the top, and bake in a brisk oven until well risen and browned. When cooked, pin a napkin round the mould, and serve the souffle at once. Vanilla Souffle Pudding.—Mix 5 table-spoonfuls of flour to a smooth paste with J pint of cold milk, then stir in i2 pint of boiling milk; pour it into a saucepan, and stir over the fire for five minutes. Beat the yolks of five eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, then mix them in with the milk and flour, and flavour the mixture with a little essence of Vanilla. Beat the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them into the above mixture when it is cold. Coat the inside of a mould with butter, ornament it with halves of dried cherries, and pour in the souffle ; put a sheet of buttered paper on top, and tie a cloth over. Boil the souffle for an-hour-and-a-half, then take the mould out of the water, and in three or four minutes’ time turn the sou Hie on to a hot dish, and serve at once. V anilla—continued. Vanilla Sticks.—(1) Mix jib. each of chocolate and Vanilla with some marzipan paste. When well mixed together, roll it into sticks, lay them on a sheet of paper (see Fig. 928), and dry in a slow oven. Fig. 928. Vanilla Sticks. (2) Beat the yolks of four eggs together with 1 teacupful of caster sugar and I table-spoonful of Vanilla sugar; when well beaten, dredge 4oz. of flour in with the eggs, add 1 loz. of warmed butter, and stir them till well mixed. Fill a biscuit-forcer that has a tin piping-funnel (the same width as a stick of Vanilla) attached to the end of it, with the mixture, and press it out on to a table that has been dusted over with caster sugar. Rub a warmed baking-sheet lightly over with white wax, cut the piping into pieces about 4in. long, and arrange them in parallel rows upon the sheet. Prepare some royal icing, strongly flavouring it with Vanilla sugar; fill a paper cornet with it, and pipe it out on the sticks of paste. Bake the sticks till lightly browned in a moderate oven, then take them off the baking-sheet and put them on a dish. Vanilla-and-Strawberry Ice. -Put H pints of thick cream into a saucepan with a pod of Vanilla, and boil it. Put Jib. of caster sugar in a saucepan with the yolks of six eggs, and beat them together; then pour in the boiled cream and stir it over the fire till thick, but do not let it boil or the eggs will curdle. When thick, pass the mixture through a silk sieve into a basin. Mix 1 pint of syrup at 35deg. with 1 pint of strawberry puree, stirring them well together, then pass them through a silk sieve. Turn the Vanilla cream into an ice-mould and the strawberry mixture into another, pack them both in pounded ice and bay-salt, and work the contents with a spatula till smooth and frozen. Cut a piece of cardboard to fit the centre of an ice-mould, and place it in per- pendicularly, dividing the mould into two equal parts ; fill one side with the Vanilla ice and the other with the strawberry ice, remove the piece of cardboard, and pack the mould in ice for two hours. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the con- tents out on to a folded napkin on a dish. Vanilla Sugar.—Cut lib. of Mexican Vanilla pods into small pieces, put them in a mortar with lib. of loaf sugar, and pound to a fine powder. Sift the sugar through a line hair sieve, turn what is left in the sieve into the mortar, and pound again. When all is finely powdered and sifted, put the sugar in bottles, and keep them tightly corked. Vanilla Syrup.—(1) Rub Joz. of citric acid in a mortar with a little simple syrup, and add gradually the remainder of JgalL of the syrup and loz. of fluid extract of Vanilla. Mix thoroughly and bottle. (2) Put lqt. of spirits of wine and 12 drops of tincture of Vanilla in a bottle, shake it well, pour in lqt. of syrup, let it stand for lifteen or twenty minutes, then filter until the liquid runs quite clear. Pour it into bottles, and it is ready for use. Vanilla Tartlets. -Peel and blanch 5oz. of Jordan almonds, put them in a mortar with 5oz. of loaf sugar, pound them to a powder, then mix with them a little Vanilla sugar. Whip the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, then stir the pounded almonds and sugar in with them. Butter some tartlet-moulds, line them with puff paste, fill them with the egg mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. The tartlets can be served either hot or cold.