THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 746 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensds, Sauces, <ic., referred to, see under their special heads. Vine-leaves—continued. leaves, the following being some very good receipts for preparing them: Fig 1010. Vine-leaves. Stuffed Vine-leaves.—(1) Put a few dozen young Vine- leaves in a large howl, pour boiling water over them, then turn them on to a sieve, and leave till well drained. I ’eel and finely chop seven or eight large onions; put Jib. of butter into a stewpan, place it over the lire till hot, then add the onions, and toss them about until beginning to brown. Wash in plenty of water about 21b. of the best rice, and diy it on a cloth ; put the rice in with the onions, and stir it over the fire till on the point of browning, then pour in i pint of water, and continue stirring until dry. Season the mixture with powdered mint and cinnamon, and salt and pepper; stir it well, then move it from the fire. Spread the Vine leaves out, put a small quantity of the mixture on each, then roll them round lengthwise, pressing gently to prevent them opening. Cover the bottom of a saucepan with some small bones, and lay the Vine-leaves on them, putting in now and then one or two sour plums; by doing this the flavour will be improved by the acidity from the plums. Press a plate over the Vine-leaves, moisten to height with water, and boil gently. When all the moisture has evaporated, take out one of the stuffed leaves and see if the rice is tender ; if not, add more hot water. Arrange the leaves tastefully on a fancy dish-paper or a folded napkin on a hot dish, and serve them. Lemon juice can be used in place of the plums when they are not in season, but the latter are preferable. (2) Plunge the Vine-leaves into a bowl of boiling water, turn them on to a sieve, and leave to drain. Finely chop some raw mutton, judging the quantity by that of the leaves; mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped onions and a small teacupful of well-washed rice; season the mixture with salt and pepper, and stir in sufficient water to make a stiffish paste. Spread the Vine-leaves out on the table, and put on each a small quantity of the stuffing. Roll them round lengthwise, and press lightly to prevent them coming open; lay them in a saucepan, put the lid on, and place it over the fire until all _ the moisture of the Vine leaves has evaporated. Moisten then to height with broth, and keep it boiling gently at the side of the lire until reduced to a thick con sistency. When sufficiently reduced, try one of the Vine- leaves to see if the rice and meat are tender; if not, some more broth must be poured over them, and finished cook- ing. Drain the leaves, arrange them tastefully on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. (3) Wash and dry the selected quantity of young Vine leaves; prepare a stuffing for them of finely minced veal, half the quantity of minced bacon, and a third of the Vine-leaves—continued. quantity of bread panada. Season the stuffing highly, and roll a small portion of it in each leaf. Lay them in a stewpan, cover with court bouillon, and stew gently. When cooked, drain the stuffed leaves, arrange them on a hot dish, pour 1 pint of sour cream over them, and serve. VINEGAR {Fr. Vinaigre; Ger. Essig; Ital. Aceto; Sp. Vinagre).—The original meaning of this term is sour or acid wine, the presumption being that the first Vinegar known was the result of wine which turned sour. Excellent Vinegars are now prepared from alcoholic liquors, by a variety of processes, which has provided for the Vinegar of commerce names which indicate the details of its manufacture. Vinegar may be produced in two ways—first, by the addition of oxygen to alcohol contained in wine, cider, beer, or any form of fermented sugar and water; secondly, by the distillation of wood, which produces a kind of acetic acid, called pyroligneous acid, which is sometimes used as a wash to restore meat that is tainted. Vine- gar used for culinary purposes, such as flavouring or preserving vegetable and animal substances, as pickles, should be made by the first principle only. A famous authority on the food productions of this country has written concerning this very useful commodity that there are good Vinegars in the market; there are also those which are indifferent, bad, and very bad. The latter are the more common. The best and most wholesome are those made from cider and wine. These retain the sug- gestions of the apples and grapes from which they origi- nally came. If carefully kept they remain palatable for an indefinite period; if carelessly, they, like every good food substance, are apt to become mouldy and unwhole- some. From a gastronomic standpoint, the best Vinegar is that which is made from red wine; next to it are those made from white wine, cider, and perry. The first is invaluable in salad dressing, on account of its beautiful colour; the second is most useful in those preparations where no colour at all is desired ; the third is available for all general uses ; and the last comes to the front whenever the delicious jargonelle flavour is conducive to culinary success. Below the first class are the Vinegars made from beer, ale, and whisky. These are coarse, heavy, and often offensive. They never, except in the case of whisky, are made purposely, but represent the desire of some brewer or distiller to utilise goods which have been ruined by careless treatment and which would otherwise prove a total loss. The ale that sours in the barrels and hogsheads, the beer that begins to putrefy in the vaults, and the wretched whisky which is so full of fusil oils that no dealer, not even the lowest, will purchase it at any price, are the raw materials from which this class of Vinegars are made. They cannot be said to be injurious, but they are simply miserable apologies for the real article. In this country a malt Vinegar is made from mashed malt without distillation, but by simply allowing the sugar fermentation to go to an acetic fermentation. It may also be stated that there is nothing equal for domestic use to a good cider Vinegar. Below the grade of whisky Vinegar, are the Vinegars made in the laboratory by chemical processes, and especially by the destructive distillation of wood. Unless skilfully refined and purified, they contain creosote, wood tar, and other products of the same class, all of which are injurious, many of them are poisonous, and some of which are fatal to the user. They have one advantage—and only one—they are cheap. They bear the same relation to genuine Vinegar that mirbane oil does to bitter almonds, glucose to pure sugar, sweetened diluted oil of vitriol to lemonade, and margarine to fresh creamy butter. Without entering further into the details of the various processes of Vinegar making, it will suffice for us to know that Vinegars, however produced, are classified by the