804 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dee., referred to, see under their special heads. Zakuska—continued. “ Food and Feeding,” observes : “ It is well known that ! the custom exists to a very wide extent among Conti- nental nations of commencing either mid-day dejeuner or dinner by eating small portions of cold pickled fish, of raw vegetables, of highly-flavoured sausage thinly sliced, &c., to serve, it is said, as a whet to appetite. This custom ; reaches its highest development in the Zakuska of the Russian, which, consisting of numerous delicacies of the kind mentioned, is sometimes to be found occupying a table in an ante-room to be passed between the drawing- room and dining-room ; or, and more commonly, spread on the sideboard of the latter. The Russian eats a little from three or four dishes at least, and ‘ qualifies ’ with a glass of strong grain spirit (vodka), or of some liqueur (Vermouth more recently) before taking his place at the table. Among these savoury preliminaries may often be found caviare in its fresh state, grey, pearly, succulent and delicate, of which most of the caviare found in this country is but as the shadow to the substance.” ZAMPINO.—This is the name given in Austria and Italy to the fore-leg and foot of a young pig, commonly called the hand. Sometimes the bone of the leg is removed and the hollow space stuffed with a savoury forcemeat. Boiled and served with French beans (see Fig. 1087. Zampino. Fig. 1087) it is a delicacy not to be despised. The follow- ing receipt is given by a famous Italian chef: Select a freshly-salted Zampino, soak it for two hours, then drain it; remove the shank-bone and stuff the hollow with savoury forcemeat, wrap it in a cloth, tying it securely at both ends, put it in an oval stewpan, and pour in plenty of cold water. When the liquid boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire and let it simmer for two hours. At the end of that time move the stewpan right away from the fire and leave the Zampino in the liquid for twenty minutes. Drain the pork, remove the cloth, put it on a hot dish, garnish it with French beans, and serve very hot. ZANDERS (Fr. Sandres).—These fresh-water- fish of the perch tribe are found in some of the North European Continental rivers and lakes, and frequently attain the size of a salmon. They are greatly esteemed for the quality of their flesh. In different countries they are known under different names. They are styled Sandelm in Germany, Schilen in Austria, and Soudacs in Russia. The flesh is very white, and said to be almost equal to the whiting. Boiled Zander.—(I) Scale the tail end of a large Zander, cut it into thick slices, and put it into a fish-kettle ; cover them with plenty of boiling water, and add a bunch of parsley and a lump of salt. When boiling, move the fish- kettle to the side of the fire and let the fish simmer for ten minutes, keeping the lid on. Put a chopped onion into a stewpan with a piece of butter, and fry till nicely browned; then add two red peppers and nearly lib. of well-washed rice, and stir it over the fire for two minutes. Moisten the rice to three times its height with fish broth, boil it quickly for a few minutes, then move the stewpan to the side of the fire and keep the contents simmering till the rice is done. When cooked, the grains of the rice should be whole, without being quite dry. Add a teacup- Zanders—continued. ful of tomato sauce and keep it by the side of the fire for a few minutes. Put a piece of butter broken into small pieces into the above mixture, and add from twenty to thirty crayfish-tails and the same quantity of olives that have been stuffed with anchovies and pickled in oil. Pile the above ingredients on to a hot dish. Drain the pieces of fish, arrange them on the rice, pour a little melted butter sauce over them, and serve. (2) Select a Zander about 51b. or 6lb. in weight, scale and draw it, cut off the tips of the fins, and score it trans- versely and slantwise on both sides. Lay it on a dish, sprinkle plenty of salt over it, and leave it for an hour or two. When ready, wash it in plenty of water, and truss its head. Lay the fish with its back upwards in a fish- kettle, pour in l pint of white wine and sufficient cold water to cover it, and add a lump of salt and a bunch of parsley. When the liquor boils, move the fish kettle to the edge of the fire, and stew the fish gently until cooked. Pour 1 teacupful of vinegar into a small saucepan, boil it until reduced to half its original quantity, then move it to the side of the fire and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of four eggs, loz. of butter, and 1 table-spoonful of thinly-shred horseradish. Continue stirring the sauce at the edge of the fire until thickened, but without letting it boil again, and season with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan with 2oz. of plain and an equal quantity of cray- Fig. 1088. Boiled Zander. fish butter broken into small pieces. Beat it lightly at the edge of the fire until all the butter has dissolved and the sauce is frothy. Drain the fish, being careful not to break it, remove the string, place it on a hot dish, garnish it freely with parsley (see Fig. 1088), and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Boudins of Zander en Croustade.—Take Hlb. of the flesh of a Zander, and mince it finely ; mix with it lib. of butter and lib. of panada, work these ingredients well together, season the mixture with salt, pepper, and spices to taste, and bind with the beaten yolks of four eggs. Roll the forcemeat like a sausage in a sheet of buttered paper, and poach it in boiling water. When firm, drain the roll of forcemeat and leave it until cold. Cut the foicemeat roll crosswise into slices of an equal thickness, brush them over with the beaten egg, and roll half of them in grated breadcrumb, and the other half in finely-chopped truffles, giving them only a thin coating. Put two large lumps of butter into two saute-pans, and melt them ; fry the bread- crumbed boudins in one pan, and the truffled ones in another. Fry them a pale golden brown, then take them out of the fat and drain them for a few minutes on a sheet of kitchen-paper. Prepare a rice or bread croustade, which fix in the centre of a dish ; arrange the boudins in it, and serve. Stewed Zanders.—(1) Scale two moderate-sized Zanders, remove their gills, cut them into pieces, then draw and wash them, and dry them well. Put a lump of butter into a saucepan with some thickly sliced mushrooms, lay in the pieces of fish, sprinkle over them a little salt, then pour in 1 wineglassful of white wine, the juice of a lemon, and the liquor of two dozen blanched oysters. Add a small lump of kneaded butter, a teaspoonful of curry powder, and a bunch of parsley. Boil the fish quickly for twelve minutes, then take out the pieces carefully so as not to break them, and lay them on a hot dish. Remove the bunch of parsley, then stir into the liquor a liaison of three yolks of eggs ; stir it by the fire till thick, then put in the blanched oysters. Pour the sauce over the fish, and serve it.