THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 695 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. ami a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Pour in some stock, and stir the mince by the side of the lire till well mixed. When hot, move the hash away from the fire, and stir into it the beaten yolk of one egg and the juice of a lemon. Turn the hash on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. (3) Cut some extremely thin slices from a leg of Veal; they should not be thicker than the blade of a knife. Lay them in a deep dish, season with salt and pepper to taste, pour over them very nearly 2 gills of white wine, and let them soak in it for three hours. Then butter the bottom of a stewpan, and lay the slices of Veal in it, dredging each slice with flour on both sides ; add the strained juice of a lemon, a little more wine, and suffi- cient white stock to cover the meat. Close the lid over the pan and let the contents simmer for five minutes. Put it on a hot dish and ‘serve immediately, or it will harden. Hotch-potch of Knuckles of Veal.—Put two knuckles of Veal that have been sawed just above the knuckle joint in a saucepan with some sliced onions, trimmings of fat, lib. of streaky bacon that has been blanched and cut into halves, two carrots and turnips cut in halves length- wise, a bunch of sweet herbs, a small quantity of cloves and peppercorns, and a lump of salt. Pour in l pint of broth and stand the saucepan over the fire till the liquor is reduced to half-glaze. When reduced, pour in more broth to three-parts the height of the above ingredients, boil it for a few minutes, then move the saucepan to the edge of the fire and keep it simmering till the meat and vegetables are tender. Wash and divide a cabbage in quarters, and wash about twenty small lettuces. Blanch and braise the cabbage and lettuces, and braise thirty small onions. When the knuckles of Veal are cooked, put the bacon on each side of them, and place round the cabbage, lettuces, onions, carrots, and turnips. Put J pint of gravy in the saucepan with the cooking-stock, boil it, skim oil the fat, strain it over the meat, and serve. Jellied Veal or Veal Cheese.—Take about 21b. of knuckle of Veal, wash it, and cut it into two or three pieces. Let it simmer in just enough water to cover it till the meat easily comes from the bones (it will take from three to four hours). Take it up, remove all the bone, and chop the meat fine ; add to it salt, pepper, mace, and finely- chopped shallots and thyme, according to taste. Put all into the liquor and boil till it is almost dry, then stir in the strained juice of a lemon. Turn it into a shape or mould, and let it stand till next day. Turn it out on a dish, and serve garnished with parsley (see Fig. 944). Knuckle of Veal en Bagoftt.—Cut the meat off a knuckle of Veal into slices, dust some salt and pepper over them, put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry lightly. Break the bone, put it in a saucepan with several young- carrots, a head of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a blade of mace, add the slices of Veal, and moisten with 1 pint of water. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently for two hours, or till the meat is tender. When cooked, take the Veal out and put it on a hot dish. Pass the cooking-liquor through a hue hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, and mix h teacupful of tomato sauce, 1 table-spoonful of ketchup, the juice of half a lemon, ami 1 wineglassful of white wine with the sauce. Work 1 table-spoonful of flour with Veal —continued. loz. of butter, stir it over the fire, and boil for a few minutes. Garnish the slices of meat with the vegetables, pour the sauce over them, and serve at once. Knuckle of Veal Soup.—Rinse two small knuckles of Veal in warm water, and put them in a saucepan with a ham bone and 4qts. of cold water; when boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer, keeping it well skimmed. Trim and wash two or three leeks, a head of celery, and wash well in plenty of water til), of rice, then put them in with the soup. Cut off the discoloured outside leaves of six large lettuces, wash the remainder, and blanch and braise them. Peel a cucumber, cut it into quarters, and boil in salted - water; when cooked, drain the vegetables, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and toss over the fire for a few minutes. Boil separately in salted water 1 breakfast-cupful of green peas and the same quantity of asparagus-lieads. Drain the lettuces, cut them into quarters, and put them in a soup-tureen with the cucum- bers, peas, and asparagus-lieads. Skim the fat off the broth, and pour it slowly through a fine hair sieve over the vegetables in the soup-tureen. Serve the soup while very hot. If liked, the gelatinous pieces may be picked off the knuckles, cut into small pieces, and put in the soup. Leg of Veal en Surprise.—Lard the Veal with fat bacon and lemon-peel cut very thin. Make a rich oyster force- meat to stuff it with. When stuffed, put it in a stewpan, barely cover with water, and let it stew till tender and thoroughly done, then take it up. Skim the liquor well, leaving no fat on it, and add to it a piece of butter rolled in flour, the crumb of a roll grated fine, a little mushroom ketchup, a little lemon-juice, 1 pint of cream, and J pint of oysters; stir this over the fire till it thickens, let it boil for a few minutes, then pour over the Veal ; garnish with oysters fried in butter and slices of toasted bacon. Loin of Veal en Blanquette with Bechamel Sauce.— The cold remains of a roasted loin of Veal will serve for this purpose. Cut out the fillet, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and warm it in the oven. Make a blanquette with the remainder. When ready, place the fillet with the blanquette on a hot dish, and serve while very hot. Loin of Veal a la Fermiere.—Stuff about 71b. of the loin of Veal cut from the best end with Veal forcemeat, truss it, and cover with a sheet of thickly-buttered paper. Fix the Veal in front of a clear fire, and roast for an-hour- and-a-half, basting it frequently with butter. At the end of that time, baste the Veal with cream till it is quite cooked (it will take about another half-hour). When cooked, put the Veal on a hot dish, mix the basting-cream with a little hot bechamel sauce and water, pour it over the Veal, and serve. Loin of Veal a la Financiere.—Bone a loin of Veal, trim off some of the fat surrounding the kidney, beat the flap lightly, then roll it round the fillet and kidney and tie round with string. Put the joint in a stewpan with lqt. each of mirepoix and broth, cover with a thick sheet of buttered paper, and let it simmer for two hours, basting occasionally. Lard four sweetbreads with fillets of fat