TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 742 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Venison—continued. Venison—continued. two hours. When cooked, make a slight opening at the top of the pasty, pour in a little more gravy, and serve. (6) American.—Cut 31b. of Venison into small square pieces (the parings are preferable), place them in a sauce- pan with loz. of butter, and brown them well for six minutes; then add 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir well, and . moisten with lqt. of white broth; then throw in six small glazed white onions, a bouquet garni,. 2 pinches of salt, 1 pinch of pepper, and A pinch of nutmeg. Cook on the stove for forty-five minutes with the lid on. When done, turn the stew into a deep dish, cover with a good pie-crust, carefully wetting the edges, brush over the surface with beaten egg, make two incisions on each side and a small hole in the centre, and bake in the oven for forty minutes. Cover a dish with a folded napkin, lay upon this the dish containing the pie, and serve. Venison Pudding.—Finely chop fib. of Venison-suet, mix with it 1,1b. of oatmeal, and season with pepper and salt. Fill some well-cleaned sausage-skins with the mixture, tie them securely at the ends, and prick them with a fork to prevent their bursting. Put the puddings into a saucepan of boiling water and boil them for an hour. When cooked, drain the puddings, arrange them on a dish-paper or a folded napkin on a hot dish, and serve with oatmeal cakes. Venison Salad.—Cut some roast Venison into small nice- shaped pieces, put them in a deep dish, strew some chopped herbs over them, and cover with oil and vinegar. Wash some heads of endive, drain them well, shred them, and put them in a salad-bowl; add the Venison and dressing, and toss them lightly. Strew some chopped chives over the top, and serve. If preferred, the Venison may be well drained from the marinade, and put in a salad-bowl with some shred lettuces and a mayonnaise poured over. Venison Soup.—(1) Remove all the bones from about 41b. of fresh Venison; put it in a stewpan with |lb. of ham, cut into small pieces, and a finely-chopped shallot, pour in sufficient water to cover the meat, stand the stewpan by the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently for an hour. Skim the liquor, pour in lqt. of boiling water, and add a head of celery cut into small pieces and one and a half blades of mace. Let the liquor simmer gently for two hours-and-three-quarters longer, then pour in A- pint of port wine. Roll loz. of butter in 1 table-spoonful of flour, put it in with the Venison, and stir over the fire till thick. Turn the soup with the Venison into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast. (2) Split the head of the Venison, and wash it thoroughly in plenty of cold water; put it, with the shank-bones, neck, and any trimmings of Venison available, into a stock- pot with a carrot, turnip, four onions, one being stuck with four cloves, a little thyme, two blades of mace, eight or ten peppercorns, and a lump of salt. Fill the pot with cold water, stand it over the fire till boiling, then move it a little to the side and keep it boiling slowly for ten hours. Strain the soup through a fine hair sieve and leave it till cold. Skim all the fat oft' the soup, and put it in a saucepan with lAlb. of finely-chopped raw lean Venison and three eggs that have been beaten with their shells; stir the soup over the fire till boiling, then move it to the side and let it simmer for two hours, pouring in occasionally a very little cold water. At the end of that time strain the sou]) through a silk sieve into a clean pan, and season with salt, pepper, cayenne pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of ketchup. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 1 break-fastcupful of milk, and season them with salt and pepper. Turn the custard into a buttered mould, put it into a saucepan with boiling water to three- parts its height, and steam the custard till firm. When firm, turn the custard out of the mould, cut it into thick slices, then cut them into different shapes with a fancy cutter. Put the pieces of custard into the soup, turn it into a tureen, and serve while very hot. (3) Remove the bones from 31b. or 4lb. of freshly-killed Venison, and cut the meat into small pieces; put them into a large stewpan with fib. of sliced liam, two minced onions, and cold water to cover. Season to taste with salt and pepper, put the lid on the stewpan, and keep the contents simmering at the edge of the fire. In an hour's time skim the soup well, pour in lqt. of boiling water, and add a couple of blades of mace and a head of celery that has been washed and cut into convenient lengths. Boil the soup gently for two hours longer. Knead 3oz. of butter well with 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, and divide it into small pieces. When cooked, put the prepared butter into the soup, mix in A pint of red wine, and boil gently for fifteen minutes longer. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve. (4) Put 61b. or 71b. of breast of Venison, cut into small pieces, into a stewpan, and let it stew for an hour in fib. of butter. Keep the lid on close, but stir the meat about occasionally to prevent it from burning. Put over the fire in another saucepan 1A pints of the blood mixed with 4qts. of cold water, stir it till it boils, then add to it one onion, peeled and chopped very small, a carrot scraped and washed, but not cut up, the stewed Venison, and a seasoning of salt and black pepper. Let it simmer for two hours if the Venison be young, but if old it will require two-hours-and-a-half. Fifteen minutes before removing it from the fire, take out the carrot and all the bones of the Venison, but leave in some of the meat; add a small piece of butter with plenty of flour rubbed into it, and A pint of port wine, and let it boil for ten minutes, stirring constantly. Venison Steak a la Cabaretier.—Cut off a thick steak, beat it with a cutlet-bat to make it tender, put it into a marinade of vinegar or lemon-juice, and let it remain for twenty minutes or so. Take it out, wipe it perfectly dry, wrap it first in vine-leaves and then in buttered paper, put it on a grill over a clear charcoal fire, and broil until done. Serve with butter sauce, seasoned with cayenne pepper and salt, poured over. Venison Steaks a la Chasseur.—Procure from a freshly- killed deer a fine leg of about 5lb. weight, remove the bone, cut off six slices, pare and flatten them, put, them on a plate, and season with 1 pinch each of salt and pepper, A pinch of nutmeg, and 1 table-spoonful of oil, rolling them Fig. 1007. Venison Steaks a la Chasseur. in well. Put them to broil for five minutes on each side over a clear fire. Dress on a hot dish, spread over 1 gill of maitre-d’hotel butter, decorate the dish with a little water- cress (see Fig. 1007), and serve. Venison Steaks a l’Espagnole.—The same as for Broiled Venison Steak, serving with the following sauce: Put into a saucepan on a hot range 1 wineglassful of port wine, and let it come to the boil; add \ pint of currant jelly, thoroughly stir until the jelly is well dissolved, pour in 1 gill of Spanish sauce, and let it again come to the boil. Pour the sauce on a hot dish, dress the steaks over it, one overlapping another, and send to table hot. Venison Steak a la Hongroise.—Broil the steak. Mean- while cut into julienne-shaped pieces Aoz. of citron, also the zest of half a small lemon cut in the same way; place them in a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of port wine, and cook for two or three minutes at most. Add 1 gill of currant-jelly, stir well together until the jelly is thoroughly dissolved, and sprinkle over A saltspoonful of cayenne. Allow it to come to the boil. Pour the sauce' on the hot dish, arrange the steaks over it one overlapping another, and serve very hot. It is not very often that the offal of the deer finds its way into cookery, although some parts of it are by no means to be despised, as the following receipts will show :