THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 678 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Vanilla—con tinned. Put the Vanilla and sugar into a saucepan with 1 pint of cream, the beaten yolks of six eggs, and \ wineglass- ful of pale brandy. Stir the mixture over a slow fire till smooth and thick, but do not let it quite boil, or the eggs will curdle. Pass the custard through a fine hair sieve into a freezing-pot, work it over the ice till frozen, then turn it into a mould; pack it in pounded ice till set. Dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, turn the cream out on to a fancy or glass dish, and serve. (3) Boil l pint of milk with half a Vanilla pod in a saucepan. Put into a basin ilb. of powdered sugar and the yolks of six eggs, and with a spatula mix thoroughly for ten minutes; add it to the boiling milk, stirring for two minutes longer, and pour the whole into a copper basin, placing it on a moderate stove to heat for five minutes, stirring at the bottom continually with the wooden spatula, and being careful not to let it boil. Remove the basin from the fire, place it on a table, and add immedi- ately 1 pint of sweet cream, mixing it for two minutes longer ; let it cool for about thirty minutes, strain into a freezer, put on the lid, and lay in an ice-tub, filling the freezer all round with broken ice mixed slightly with rock-salt, and turn the handle on the cover as briskly as possible for three minutes. Lift up the lid, and with a wooden spoon detach the cream from all round the freezer and the bottom as well. Re-cover it, and turn the handle sharply for three minutes longer; uncover, and detach the cream the same as before, being careful that no ice or salt drops in. Put the lid on again, and repeat the same three times. The cream should by this time be quite firm. Have a cold dish with a folded napkin, dress the cream over, and send to table. Vanilla Cream Liqueur.—Cut into pieces 3 drachms of Vanilla pods, and put them into a large jar together with h grain of amber. Put 2lb. lOoz. of loaf sugar over the fire in 3 pints of filtered water; when the sugar has melted and boiled up once, pour it over the Vanilla and amber in the jar, and let it stand till quite cold; then add 3 pints of brandy, cover the jar, and let it stand for six days. Colour it with a little prepared cochineal. Strain the liqueur, bottle it, and cork and seal the bottles. Vanilla Cream Sauce.—This is to be served with hot cakes such as baba. Boil 1 pint of cold milk in a sauce- pan. Put three yolks of eggs into a small vessel with 2oz. of powdered sugar, loz. of flour, and a piece of Vanilla pod lin. long. Beat these well together with a wire whip for two minutes. Pour the mixture into the boiling milk, stir again briskly with the whisk until it boils, remove from the fire, and add § gill of maraschino. Beat again for one minute, and pour the cream nicely over the cake before sending to table. Vanilla Cream Syrup.—This can be obtained by mixing 1 fluid ounce of extract of Vanilla with 3 pints of simple syrup and 1 pint of cream or condensed milk. It may be coloured with carmine if desired. Vanilla Cup Custards.—Pound a Vanilla bean in a mortar, mix in 3 pints of milk, eight well-beaten eggs, and crushed loaf sugar to sweeten ; with this fill up some cups, place them in a pan of hot water, set it in the oven, and cook. Turn the custards out when done (see Fig. 926), and serve either hot or cold. Vanilla-and-Currant Cream (Iced).—Put ioz. of isin- glass into a lined saucepan with 1 pint of cream, 2 table- V anilla—con tinued. spoonfuls of Vanilla sugar, and sufficient plain loaf sugar to give it the required sweetness ; stir the mixture over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of six eggs. Leave the cream until cool, stirring it occasionally, then half fill some small moulds with it. Put foz. of gelatine in a saucepan with J pint of water, and stir it over the fire until dissolved; then mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of fresh currant-juice or syrup of preserved ones, and the juice of one lemon; sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and boil it up again. Strain the currant mixture through a fine sieve, let it cool a little, then mix with H break- fast-cupfuls of thick cream. When the Vanilla cream in the moulds has got quite stiff, fill them up with the currant cream and stand them on ice. When ready to serve, dip the moulds into tepid water, wipe them, and turn the contents out on to a fancy dish. Vanilla Custard.—(1) Large.—Boil lqt. of cream with 12oz. of sugar and a Vanilla pod. Beat well the yolks of twelve eggs, and pour the boiling cream over them. Set the mixture on the fire again for one minute. The custard will not froth in the freezer if cooked much, but should be taken off and strained as soon as slightly thickened. Freeze and beat light, and serve as required. (2) Small.—Pour 2\ pints of boiling milk on a pod of Vanilla that has been broken into small pieces, and let it soak for an hour. Beat the yolks of five eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, mix them in with the boiled milk, and strain the whole through a pointed strainer. Fill some cups with the custard mixture, stand the cups in a flat stewpan, surround them with boil- ing water to a little more than half their height, and stand the stewpan on a slow fire to keep the water just simmer- ing for fifteen minutes. When the custards are set, let them cool in the water, then wipe the cups, and serve. Vanilla Drops.—Cut up as fine as possible two Vanilla pods; put them into a mortar with a little sugar, and pound them to a powder. Sift it through a fine sieve, and mix it up with lib. of coarsely-sifted sugar; put this in a basin and add gradually, stirring with a spoon, sufficient water to make the paste of such a thickness that it will fall from the spoon and none of it remain sticking to it. Turn the paste into a sugar-pan with a lip to it, set it on the stove, anti with a spatula stir well until the sugar is dissolved and makes a slight noise. Remove the pan when on the point of boiling, and work well with the spatula until the paste when dropped will retain its shape and not spread too much. W ith the pan in the left hand and a piece of wire in the right, let the drops fall on a smooth tin or cartridge-paper; let them harden in the hot closet for two hours, remove them from the tin or paper, and pack away for use. Vanilla pods are used in preference to the essence, as the latter is apt to make the paste greasy. Vanilla Eclairs.—Prepare an icing with 3 teacupfuls of caster sugar and the whites of two eggs, and flavour it with a few drops of essence of Vanilla. Put jib. of butter in a saucepan with i /pint of boiling water, and boil it up. Sift 1 pint of flour in the boiling water and beat it well till quite smooth, then take the saucepan off the fire. Break five eggs in a basin, and when the paste is nearly cold beat in the eggs with the hand. Only a small portion of the eggs should be added at a time. Beat the mixture foi about twenty minutes. Butter some baking-sheets, and lay the mixture on it in oblong pieces about 4in. long and Hin. wide, leaving a space about 2in. between these. Bake the Eclairs in a quick oven for about twenty five minutes; when cooked, brush them over with the Vanilla icing, and leave them till cold. Cut the eclairs open, and fill them with whipped cream that has been sweetened and flavoured with Vanilla. Vanilla Fritters.—Put into a saucepan i pint of water, 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and 34oz. of butter, and boil for a few minutes. Drop in 5oz. of flour all at once, and stir the mixture over the fire until the paste is firm and well cooked. Take it from the fire, work in three eggs one at a time, using a spoon, and beat the paste well