THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 684 for details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal —continued. move the saucepan to the side of the fire, add the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten with 1 teacupful of milk, and stir it by the side of the fire for a few minutes. Turn the hlanquette on to a hot dish, garnish with two hard-boiled eggs, and serve. Blanquette of Veal -with Mushrooms en Croustade.— Cut some cold roasted fillet of Veal into collops llsin. in diameter and Jin. thick, slice a fourth of the quantity of mushrooms, and mix them with the Veal in some German sauce. Prepare a paste croustade 2in. high and the size of the dish on which it is to he served, make the blanquette hot, turn it into the croustade, and serve. Blanquette of Veal with Uouilles.—The same as for Blanquette of Veal, arranging Jib. of cooked nouilles round the serving-dish as a border. Blanquette of Veal with Peas.—The same as for Blan- quette of Veal, adding 1 pint of cooked green or canned blanched peas two minutes before serving. Boiled Pillet of Veal.—Wash a small fillet of Veal, roll it round, and tie it. Put the Veal in a saucepan, cover with cold water, and place over a slow fire. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep the water boiling gently for about four hours, removing the scum as it rises. When cooked, drain the Veal, put it on a hot dish, and serve with a dish of boiled bacon and a sauceboatful of white sauce. Boiled Knuckle of Veal. -(I) Place a knuckle of Veal in a stewpan (should! it be a very large one it may be divided into two or three pieces), add a few blades of mace, a little thyme, an onion, some whole peppers, and a burnt crust of bread, and cover with from 3 pints to 4 pints of water; cover the pan closely with the lid and boil the contents. When done, place it by the side of the fire and let it simmer for at least two hours. Take it up, keep it hot on a dish, strain the liquor over, and send to the table with lemon cut into slices for garnish (see Fig. 934). (2) Put a knuckle of Veal into a saucepan, cover with water, and when it reaches the boiling-point put in a lump of salt; move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep it simmering till tender (it should take about twenty minutes for each pound). When cooked, put the knuckle on a hot dish, and serve it with a dish of boiled salted pork and a sauceboatful of parsley and butter sauce. Boudins of Veal.—(1) Finely chop the remains of some cold Veal, and mix with it a moderate quantity of finely - chopped bacon and parsley; season to taste with salt, pepper, and the smallest quantity of mace. Put the mince in a stewpan, moisten it with a few table-spoonfuls of clear gravy, and stir it over the fire till very hot; next move it to the side of the fire, and stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs. Thickly butter the interior of some small tin boudin moulds, three parts fill them with the above mixture, and tie .a sheet of buttered paper over each. Stand the tins in a stewpan with boiling water to about half their height, and boil the contents for twenty minutes. At the end of that time, turn the boudins out of their tins on to a hot dish, pour some white sauce over them, and serve. (2) Take some fat and lean of cold roasted Veal, chop it very fine, and mix with it a seasoning of pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg, then mix with it a beaten egg and a little good white stock. Butter a shape or V eal—continued. mould, press the mince firmly into it, lay a buttered paper over the top, and tie a cover over it, if the shape be not fitted with a lid. Put the mould into a saucepan of boiling water, and let the contents boil for an hour. Turn the boudin out, and serve it with a thick white gravy; or when turned out, brush the top over with beaten egg, dredge sifted breadcrumbs over, and brown it before the fire in a Dutch oven, basting it with butter. Garnish with slices of lemon or fried parsley, or both. Boudins of Veal with Mushrooms.—Cut Jib. of lean Veal into small pieces, trimming off all the skin; put them in a mortar and pound to a paste. Mix half the quantity of panada with the Veal, continue pounding it, then add 5oz. of butter. Season the mixture with salt and grated nutmeg, beat in the yolks of two eggs, one at a time, pound it for a few minutes longer, then pass through a fine hair sieve into a basin. In twenty minutes’ time mix a third of its quantity of chopped cooked mushrooms with the forcemeat, divide it into small equal quantities, roll them with the hand on a floured table, thus giving them an oblong shape, then flatten them with the blade of a knife. Dip the boudins in beaten egg, and cover thickly with breadcrumbs. Put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them till nicely browned on both sides. Drain the boudins, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, fill the middle with a garnish of cooked minced mushrooms, and serve. Boudins of Veal with Tomato Puree.—Chop some lean Veal and pound it in a mortar; mix with it half its quantity of paste panada and half its quantity of minced Veal-suet. Pound the whole together, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of spices; pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, and stir in a sufficient quantity of heaten eggs to bind it. Butter two or three small moulds, fill them with the above mixture, stand them in a stewpan with boiling water to three parts their height, and steam their contents for an-hour- and-a half. Prepare the following puree for the boudins: Slice some tomatoes, put them in a stewpan with a moderate quantity of clear stock, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Let the tomatoes boil gently until quite tender, then pass them with their liquor through a fine hair sieve, return them to the stewpan, and thicken with a lump of butter and flour that have been kneaded together. When sufficiently thickened, move the puree to the side of f he fire. Plenty of tomatoes but only a small quantity of stock should be used. When the boudins are cooked, turn them out of their moulds on to a hot dish, pour the tomato puree round them, and serve while hot. Braised Breast of Veal a la Milanaise.—Bone a breast of Veal weighing about 211 b., and season with 1 table-spoon- ful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Stuff it in the usual way with forcemeat, roll, and tie it, making a few inci- sions in the skin. Put it into a braising-pan with a sliced carrot and onion, and braise it for an-hour-and a- half in the oven, hasting it occasionally with its own gravy. Serve with J pint of hot Milanaise garnishing on a dish, placing the meat on top, and straining the gravy over it. Braised Chump of Veal with Chicory or Sorrel.— Lard one side of a chump of Veal and make an incision across the other side about fin. deep, then make one lengthwise forming a cross. Put the Veal into a sauce- pan or braising-pan with three or four carrots, onions, a bunch of parsley, and a small quantity of stock. Let the broth simmer over a gentle fire till the bottom of the pan is covered with a glaze, then put in lib. of meat and a small quantity of water and stock. Put the lid on the saucepan with some hot coals on it, and finish cooking the contents over a slow fire, taking the vegetables and bunch of parsley out when the meat is three parts done. When cooked, glaze the Veal. Skim the fat off the liquor, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and boil it up again. Arrange a puree of chicory on a hot dish, put the chump on it, pour the sauce over, and serve. A puree of sorrel can be used in place of the chicory if liked better.