THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 765 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ike., referred to, see under their special heads. Wheat—continued. Wheat-meal Muffins.—Prepare lib. of bread dough with Wheat-meal, and leave it to rise over night. Mix with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of the dough loz. of Wheat-meal, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, a little salt, a piece of butter about the size of an egg, slightly warmed, 2 table-spoonfuls of milk, and one beaten egg. Work the above ingredients together against the sides of the pan till very smooth and elastic, then set it to rise for an hour in a warm tempera- ture. Procure some muffin-rings, 2in. in diameter and lin. deep, butter them, and set them in a buttered baking- dish ; half till the rings with the batter, which should be thin enough to settle down, yet not run under the rings. Leave the muffins to rise for half-an-hour, then bake them in a quick oven for ten minutes. When cooked, take the muffins out of the rings. Fig. 1041. Wheat-meal Gems and Pans. Wheat-meal Scone.-—Mix well together lib. of Wheat-meal, 2oz. of butter, loz. of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, b teaspoonful of tartaric acid, and sufficient milk and water to make a stiff paste, and form it into a round smooth lump. Butter and slightly Hour a baking sheet or tin, put the paste on it, flatten it down with the hand into a round scone a little more than lin. in thickness, score it into quarters without separating, prick over the top with a pricker or fork, and bake in a moderately hot oven for about twenty minutes. Take it out and serve hot. Wheat Soup.—Pour b pint of Wheat into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, and stir it over the fire until hot. Put a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs in with the Wheat, pour over lqt. of water, and season it with salt and pepper. Let the soup boil gently at the side of the fire until the Wheat grains are quite soft. Beat the yolks of three eggs in a soup-tureen, and pour the soup slowly over the eggs, stirring them at the same time; grate a small quantity of nutmeg over it, and serve with a plate of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Wheat-starch Jelly.—Put 111), of loaf sugar in a saucepan with lqt. of water, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until dissolved; then mix in 3 table-spoonfuls of ground Wheat-starch and stir it well. Leave the mixture at the side of the fire for two hours, stirring it often to keep it smooth; it should not be too thick. At the end of that time flavour the mixture with a few drops of essence of rose-water or orange-flower water, and stir it for a few minutes longer. Brush over the .interior of a domed mould with almond oil, pour the mixture into it, and put it in a cool place until firm. When ready to serve, dip the mould into tepid water, wipe it, turn the jelly on to a fancy dish, and ornament the top with fillets of skinned almonds or pistachios. Whole-wheat Biscuits.—(1) Put into a basin 1 breakfast- cupful each of rye-flour and white flour, b teaspoonful each of salt and bicarbonate of soda, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of melted butter; mix all well together, then add milk enough to make a drop batter. Bake in hot pans for twenty to thirty minutes, and serve. (2) Mix in the order given 1 breakfast-cupful each of whole Wheat and white flour, 4 teaspoonful each of salt and bicarbonate of soda, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, 1 teaspoonful of melted butter, and milk enough to make a drop batter (about b pint). If sour milk be used, omit the cream of tartar' Bake in small round biscuit-tins for twenty or thirty minutes until done. WHEATEABS (Fr. Motteux). — Small European singing birds (Saxicolo cenanthe), known in some parts as Fallow-Chats, Stone-Chats, and White Tails. The male is white beneath, bluish-grey above, with black wings, and a black stripe through each eye; the tail is black at the tip and in the middle, but white at the base and on each side. Kettner informs us that it “ is a pleasant little bird, which is found to be very satisfactory at the end of the London season, while we are still waiting for the grouse and the partridges. It winters on the shores of the Mediterranean, but coinefe over to England to breed in mid-March. Alighting on our southern coasts, it spreads itself over the British Islands, even to Orkney and Shetland. When the breeding season is over, then is the time to catch it with advantage. This is not only because we are disposed to give all birds their freedom while they have families dependent on them, but also and chiefly, it is on their return south that the Wheatears can be caught in sufficient numbers to make it worth while to pursue them. Towards the end of July, old birds and the young ones, fat and plump, begin to collect on the Sussex Downs, meaning to cross the Channel in search of their winter homes. On St. James’s day, the 25th of July, the shepherds of the South Downs begin to set nooses and lay traps for them. All the traps and nooses are ready by the 1st of August. One shepherd has been known to catch one thousand birds in a day. He can easily catch five hundred. And this system of ensnaring goes on till the third week in September, when the birds have nearly all left. Each bird is supposed to be worth a penny to the shepherd, at least. Southey tells the story of one of the amiable minor poets, Hurdes, who used to let the birds out of the traps which he found in his walks, but always left a penny in place of each to soothe the disappointment of the shepherds. A penny is not much to give for a bird which has been honoured with the name of the English ortolan. It is needless to say that in Leadenhall Market, and in the hotels of the Sussex watering-places, the little birds, generally sold by the dozen, are charged a good deal more than a penny apiece. They are mightily prized at the end of summer, when winged fowl, with the exception of the heroes and heroines of the barn- door, are scarce at our tables, and they are to be treated as larks. As to the name of the bird—which is not Wheat- ear, but Wheatears—it must be enough to say that it has nothing to do with wheat, nor with any kind of ear, whether of corn or of bird. In a very old cookery book— that of La Varenne—the name of the bird is given as Tliiastias.” The following is an excellent way of cooking them: Fix the Wheatears on a small bird-spit (see Fig. 1042) without drawing, dredge them over with flour, and roast them in front of a clear fire, basting continually with butter. Toast a slice of bread, remove the crust, put it on a (date, and put it under the birds while cooking. When the birds are cooked, lay them on the toast on a hot dish, pour some rich brown gravy over, garnish with slices of lemons, and serve. WHELKS (Fr. Buccins; Ger. Kinkhorner).—These shell-fish (see Fig. 1043), in conjunction with the periwinkle, are regarded by cooks as too contemptible to be worthy of any special culinary treatment. In spite of this, they form a very important item of diet amongst the poorer classes who have a taste for the flavour of fish.