THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 795 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Woodcocks—continued. add them to the trail, &c., and again shake the sauce round in the saucepan. When the Woodcocks are done, take them up, lay them in the hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Woodcocks en Croustades.—Singe and bone some Woodcocks and dust them inwardly with pepper and salt. Break the hack and bones into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them over a clear fire till browned; then cover them with white wine and broth, and let them simmer for twenty minutes. Strain the liquor off the bones into another stewpan, boil it till reduced to half glaze, then thicken it with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of sauce. Put the trails of the Woodcocks and five or six chickens’ livers in a frying-pan with some bacon-fat, and fry them quickly; season them with salt and pepper, leave them till cool, then pound them in a mortar with half their quantity of chopped bacon and the same of panada. Mix 3 or 4 table spoonfuls of chopped raw truffles with the above mixture and stuff the birds with it; roll one bird to a round shape and the remainder to an oval shape, fastening them securely with twine. Place two or three rashers of bacon and some sliced vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, and onions, at the bottom of a stewpan ; put in the birds, sprinkle a little salt over them, pour in to half their height some white wine and broth mixed in equal quantities, put the lid on the pan, and braise the birds. Cut as many small croustades of bread as there are birds, shaping one round and the rest oval, make a cut round on the upper surfaces with the point of a knife, and fry them in fat till nicely browned. When done, drain the pieces of bread, scoop them out, and spread a thin layer of game quenelle force- meat all over the insides. Put the croustades in the oven and bake them till the forcemeat has set. When cooked, tit the birds in the bread cases, and pour the sauce over them. Arrange the croustades on an ornamental dish paper that has been placed on a hot dish, putting the oval shaped ones all round and the round one in the centre, and serve while hot. Woodcocks a la Minute.—Put into a small frying-pan over a good fire 3oz. or 4oz. of butter, some shred shallots, a little pepper and salt, and grated nutmeg ; when the butter is quite hot, put a brace of Woodcocks into the pan, fry them for seven or eight minutes, and add 1 table- spoonful of white wine, the strained juice of two lemons, and some raspings of crust of bread; let the Woodcocks remain in the pan till the sauce has boiled up once, then put the birds on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve at once. Woodcocks a la Perigueux.—Truss some Woodcocks, put them in a stewpan with some thin slices of fat bacon on the top of them, pour in 1 pint of mirepoix and 4 pint of Madeira, and cook them gently by the side of the fire. Boil some Perigueux sauce together with some extract of Woodcocks till reduced. When cooked, drain the birds, put them on a hot dish, strain the sauce over them, and serve. Woodcock Liver Sauce.—Put 2 table spoonfuls each of port wine and cullis and the pounded bones and livers of six roasted Woodcocks into a saucepan, and let the liquor simmer till of the consistency of cream ; then strain, and add the strained juice of two oranges and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Woodcock Pie.—(1) Cut some Woodcocks into four pieces each, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, season them with pepper and salt, and fry for ten minutes. Drain the Woodcocks and leave, them till cool. Chop some cooked calf’s liver and an equal quantity of fat bacon, put them in a mortar, and pound them, adding the trail of the Woodcocks whilst pounding. Pass the forcemeat through a fine hair sieve. Mix 1 pinch of salt with lib. of flour, nib in 41b. of butter, then mix it to a smooth paste with three beaten yolks of eggs and a small quantity of cold water, and roll the paste out on a floured table. Butter an entree pie-mould and line it evenly with the paste. Place a layer of the force meat at the bottom of the mould, leaving a hollow in Woodcocks—continued. the centre, put a layer of the Woodcocks on the force- meat, then another layer of the forcemeat, and so on, till the mould is full, finishing with a layer of forcemeat. Cut a block of bread to fit the hollow in the centre of the pie, bind a piece of fat bacon round it, and fix it in. Cover the pie with a flat of paste, trim the edges, moisten them with water, and pinch them together. Brush the pie over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake it in a moderate oven. Cut into thin slices some cooked truffles and mix them with some Spanish sauce that has been reduced with some essence of truffles. When cooked, lift the cover oil' the pie, and remove the piece of bread from the centre. Put the pie on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, fill the hollow left by the bread with the truffles and sauce. Arrange a circle of cocks’ kernels on the top of the force- meat, put some more sliced truffles in the middle, and serve. (2) Singe and bone four Woodcocks, put the trail in a mortar and pound it. Trim off the skin and gristle from 14lb. of fillet of veal and an equal quantity of fat bacon, chop them, pound in the mortar, and mix them with the trails. Spread the birds open, season them with salt and spices, put a layer of forcemeat on them, then some slices of truffles, and roll the birds up to an oval shape. Butter a cold pie-mould, line it with puff paste, put at the bottom a thin layer of the forcemeat, then two of the Woodcocks, put a few slices of truffles on the top, cover them with forcemeat, then put in the remaining birds, proceed as before, and cover them with thin slices of fat bacon. Put a cover of paste over the pie, moistening and pinching the edges together, place another puff paste cover on the top of that, just damping it to make it adhere, brush it over with beaten egg, then with a sharp pointed knife draw a fancy pattern on it, make a hole in the centre, and bake the pie in a moderate oven for two hours. When cooked, leave the pie till it has cooled a little, then pour in through the hole in the top some melted aspic jelly that has been mixed with some reduced essence of Woodcocks. When quite cold, put the pie on a folded napkin or a lace edged dish-paper on a dish, and serve. Woodcock Puree en Croustade. -Pick the flesh from the bones and skin of some cold roasted Woodcocks, chop it, put it in a mortar, and pound it. Moisten the pounded meat with some Spanish sauce, pass it through a fine hair sieve into a saucepan, put in a lump of butter, and stir it by the side of the tire. Cut eight slices of bread into the shape of hearts, and cut out one round piece. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and when on the point of boiling, put in the pieces of bread and fry them till brown; drain the pieces of bread, scoop out the centres to leave as little crumb as possible, and put them on a hot dish, arranging them with the points of the hearts meeting in the middle, and the round piece of bread over the points. Pour the puree into the pieces of bread, and serve them. Woodcock Puree with. Plover’s Eggs. -Trim the flesh of some cold roast Woodcock, chop it, and pound it in a mortar. Break the bones and put them in a saucepan with some trimmings of ham, the trimmings of the birds, some slices of carrot, turnip, and onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, 1 teacupful of white wine, and a small quantity of thick gravy. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, anil let the sauce simmer gently for fifteen minutes ; then strain the sauce through a line hair sieve into another saucepan, and boil it quickly till reduced to half glaze. Put the trails, f teacupful of boiled rice, and a lump of butter, into the mortar, and pound them ; then mix them with the pounded meat and pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. Put the puree into a stewpan and stir it over the fire till hot, adding gradually about two-thirds of the above reduced liquor. Boil some lap- wing’s or plover’s eggs in water for eight minutes. Turn the puree into a hot dish, pour the remainder of the half- glaze over it, garnish with the eggs, and serve. Woodcock Souffles.—Separate the meat from the bones of some cooked Woodcocks, trim off the skin anil sinews, and pound it in a mortar with a piece of butter, the trails, and 1 teacupful of cold cooked rice. Season the pounded