689 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Veal—continued. cinnamon ami cumin ; cover with clear stock broth, put the lid on the pan, draw it over a slow charcoal lire, ami simmer till the meat is tender. When cooked, put the slices of meat on to a hot dish, and serve. Cream of Veal.—Cut the tenderest part of a fillet of Veal into small pieces, put them in a mortar with an equal quantity of bread that has been soaked in boiling milk, and pound them. Stir into the above mixture the yolk of one egg, the whites of two, and sufficient cream to bring it to a stiff batter; season with salt and pepper. Butter a plain mould, ornament the inside with thin slices of truffles, and pour in the mixture. Stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to three parts its height, and let it steam for an hour. At the end of that time turn the cream out of the mould on to a hot dish, pour some perigueux sauce round, and serve. Curried Tendons of Veal.—Cut the tendons into equal- sized pieces and braise them. When cooked, drain the tendons and press them between two plates till nearly cold. Strain the cooking-liquor into another saucepan. Mix 2 teaspoonfuls of curry powder with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, mixing them to a paste with a little water, then pour it into the strained liquor, and stir over the fire till boiling. Trim the tendons neatly, put them in the curry, and boil gently for lifteen minutes. Place some slices of fried bacon on a hot dish, put the tendons on them, pour the curry over, and serve with a dish of plain boiled rice. Curried Veal.—(1) Peel and chop two moderate-sized onions, put them in a stewpan with 4oz. of butter, and toss them about over the fire until nicely browned ; then stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder and a small quantity of salt, and move to the side of the fire. Cut 21b. of lean Veal into small pieces, put them in the curry with 1 pint of milk, and boil gently until all the moisture is absorbed. Wash ^lb. of rice, throw it into a saucepan of fast-boiling water, and boil until tender, adding more hot water if the quantity becomes absorbed. When the rice is cooked and dry, put in a good-sized lump of butter, and leave it at the edge of the fire for fifteen minutes. When cooked, turn the curry on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast, and serve with the rice on a separate dish. (2) Cut some Veal into small pieces, put them in a stew- pan, cover with equal quantities of broth and white wine, and boil it up; then take the meat out, refresh, and trim it. Cut two onions into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, and fry for a few minutes; then put in the pieces of meat and fry them till lightly browned. Sift 2 table-spoonfuls each of flour and curry powder over the meat, season with salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes. Pour in just enough of the cooking liquor to cover the meat, and stir it till boiling ; after it has boiled for ten minutes, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put in 6oz. of raw ham cut into small pieces, one carrot, two small onions, some mushroom trimmings, and a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley. Let the meat stew gently till cooked, then drain and keep it hot. Boil the cooking-liquor quickly till some- what reduced, move it to the side of the fire, thicken with the yolks of some eggs that have been beaten with a little cream, pour it over the meat, and serve with a separate dish of plain boiled rice. (3) Peel one large Spanish onion and one large sour apple, cut them into slices, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and toss about over the fire until lightly browned. Mix 1 table spoonful each of flour and curry powder smoothly with 1 pint of water, and pour it over the onions; season to taste with salt and pepper. Cut about 21b. of lean Veal into nice pieces, put them into the stewpan with the above ingredients, stir over the fire until the liquor boils, then move to the side and stew gently until the Veal is tender (it will take from an hour to an-hour-and-a-half). When cooked, squeeze the juice of a small lemon in the curry, turn it on to a hot dish, and garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Serve with a separate dish of plain boiled rice. V eal—continued. Curried Veal a l’lndienne.—Cut into pieces 21b. of any kind of lean raw Veal. Put the pieces into a saucepan, cover with warm water, season with 2 pinches of salt and 1 pinch of pepper, and add a bouquet garni and six small onions. Cook for twenty-five minutes. Prepare 1 gill of white roux in a saucepan, moisten it with the liquor from the Veal, stir it well, and add 1 table-spoonful of moistened curry powder and three raw yolks of egg, Fig. 938. Curried Veal -a l’Indienne. beating them up as they are put in. Place the Veal on a hot dish, immediately strain the roux over it, as it must not cook again, garnish with a border of hot plain boiled rice (see Fig. 938), and serve. Curried Veal Cutlets.—The Veal cutlets should be pre- pared as for collops by cutting them into shape, dipping them into the yolk of eggs, and covering with fine bread- crumbs mixed up with 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder and 1 table-spoonful of salt. Fry them in butter, and serve with curry sauce made as follows: Take equal parts of curry powder, flour, and butter, work them into a paste, turn it into the pan from which the cutlets have been removed, moisten with 1 breakfast-cupful of water, add a seasoning of cayenne and salt, and let it thicken before using. Cushion of Veal d la Bordelaise.—Braise a cushion of Veal, and when tender drain it and cut it into moderately thick slices; put them on a dish, and cover them over. Wash and drain twenty mushrooms, and slice them. Put a chopped onion into a deep frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry for a few minutes without browning; then put in the mushrooms, season with pepper and salt, and fry them quickly till the moisture has evaporated some- what. Dredge a little flour over the mushrooms, 1 tea- spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and pour in 1 teacupful of gravy. Stir the sauce, and boil it quickly for ten minutes. Put a layer of the ragout on a dish and then a layer of the meat, another layer of the ragout, and so on till all is used, finishing with a layer of ragout. Cover the above mixture with breadcrumbs, place a few little bits of butter on the top, and put it in a quick oven for twenty minutes, basting occasionally with the butter. When cooked, drain the butter off the dish, pour a small quantity of rich gravy round it, and serve. Cushion of Veal a la Duchesse.—Trim a large white cushion of Veal and stud it with square fillets of raw truffles ; dust a little salt over, cover the studded part of the meat with thin slices of bacon, and truss it. Place some trimmings of bacon in a stewpan, put in the meat, Fig. 939. Cushion op Veal a la Duchesse. pour some clarified butter over it, and braise for two hours in a moderate oven, basting it occasionally with the drippings in the pan. Cut some cooked potatoes in an oblong shape, like large dominoes, and glaze them. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, >tic., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II. o Y