786 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, (be., referred to, see under their special heads. Wines—continued. decided upon, it should be well done, and no system could be better than the old one of stowing the bottles in Fig. 1069. Wine-warmer. a large bucket, and filling up round with broken ice, at least an hour before serving. A very ornamental icing- bucket (see Fig. 1070) is used at many of our large hotels, clubs, and in private houses. It certainly has a most inviting appearance on a table, dinner-waggon, or side- board. Service of Wine and Wine-drinking.—We come now to a very interesting and important part of our subject—that, in short, to which tends all that has gone before. It is the actual worshipping at the shrine, for which a most elaborate preparation is considered the orthodox preliminary. It is a worshipping concerning which men differ so greatly in their practice and opinions, that it is necessary to use the utmost caution in stepping along between prejudices and passions, lest the fancies of Wines—continued. some be offended even to the far limits of disgust. For instance, a teetotaler, whether a pledged abstainer or not, declares that in his or her opinion Wine is not essential to the happiness of mankind, nor is it necessary for the promotion and maintenance of healthy living. Another expresses an opinion diametrically opposed; and so we adopt the words of Sir Henry Thompson in his work on “ Foods and Feeding,” and treat the subject strictly “ in the spirit of compromise.” This talented author admits that “ among all civilised nations, Wine in some form has for centuries been highly appreciated as a gastronomic accompaniment to food.” Further, “ I do not aver that any particular harm results from the habit of now and then enjoying a glass of really fine pure Wine—and, rare as this is, I do not think any other is worth con- suming-just as one may occasionally enjoy a particularly choice dish; neither the one nor the other, perhaps, being sufficiently innocuous or digestible for frequent, much less for habitual use. Then I am disposed to admit that there are some persons—in the aggregate not a few— who may take small quantities of genuine light Wine or beer with very little if any appreciable injury. For these persons such drinks may be put in the category of luxuries permissible within certain limits or conditions.” These “certain limits or conditions,” according to Sir Henry Thompson’s ideas, ai-e best set down in his own words. They are: “Wine in relation to dinner should be served during the repast; it should never be taken, in any form, or under any circumstances, before, that is, on an empty stomach, and rarely after the meal is finished. Regarded from a gastronomic point of view alone, nothing should appear after fruit but a small glass of Cognac or liqueur, and coffee. The post-prandial habit of drinking glass after glass even of the finest growths of the Gironde, or of the most mature or mellow shipments from Oporto, is doubtless a pleasant, but, in the end, for many persons, a costly indulgence. Secondly, whatever Wine is given should be the most sound and unsophisticated of its kind which can be procured. The host had far better produce only a bottle or two of sound bourgeois Wine from Bordeaux—and most excellent Wine may be found under such a denomination—with no pretence of a meretricious title, or other worthless finery about it, than an array of fictitious mixtures with pretentious labels procured from an advertising cheap Wine-house. I could only speak in terms of contempt and disgust, did I not feel pity for the deluded victims, of the unscrupulous use of the time- honoured and historical titles which advertisers shamelessly Haunt on bottles of worthless compounds by means of showy labels, in lists and pamphlets of portentous length, and by placards sown broadcast through the country. So that one may buy ‘Lafite’or ‘ Margaux,’* Cliambertin ’ or ‘ Nuits,’ ‘ ’47 port ’ or even ‘ ’34 ’ at any village store ! No terms can be too strong to characterise such trade. “ If fine Wines of unquestionable character and vintage are to be produced, there are only two ways of possessing them: one, by finding some Wine-merchant of long standing and reputation who will do an applicant the favour to furnish them, and the price must be large for quality and age. We may be certain that such a one will never advertise; no man who really has the grands vins of esteemed vintages in his cellar need spend a shilling in advertisements, for he confers a favour on his customer by parting with such a stock. But better and more satisfactory is it to obtain from time to time a pipe or two of Wine of high character and reputed vintage, when they are to be had, just fit to bottle, and lay them down for years until ripe for use. Commencing thus in early life, a man’s cellar becomes in twenty or thirty years a possession of interest and value, and he can always produce, at his little dinners, for those who can appreciate it, something curiously fine, and free at all events from the deleterious qualities of new and fictitious Wines,