685 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Ssc., referred to, see under their special heads. V eal—continued. Braised Cushion of Veal.—Carefully trim a cushion of Veal but let the udder remain on it. Lard the cushion on the side with bacon. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with trimmings of bacon and minced vegetables, put in the Veal, and dust a little pepper and salt over it. Fry the meat over a slow fire for a few minutes, turning it several times till lightly coloured, then pour in £ pint of Veal broth. Stand the stewpan at the side of the fire, and cook the meat till tender. When cooked, drain the Veal, put it on a dish, and garnish with croquettes. Strain the cooking-liquor of the meat, skim off all the fat, boil it quickly for a few minutes, then thicken, pour it into a sauceboat, and serve with the meat. Braised Cushion of Veal with Mushrooms and Bechamel Sauce.—Trim off the skin and udder from a cushion of Veal, and lard the meat inwardly. Put two or three slices of ham and bacon with some sliced vegetables into a large saucepan or braising-pan, put in the cushion, pour in a little white wine, and braise it, reducing the moisture to a glaze. Cut twenty or twenty-four mush- rooms into slices, put them in a flat stewpan with a little butter, and fry till almost dry. Pour 1 pint of thick bechamel sauce in with the mushrooms, boil it for a few minutes, then move the stewpan to the side of the fire. When cooked, cut the cushion of Veal into thin slices, put a layer of the mushroom mixture on to a dish, then a layer of Veal, next a layer of mushrooms, and continue in this way till all the meat is used, building it to its original form; the top layer should be of mushrooms. Put the dish in a hot oven till the surface of the meat is nicely browned, then take it out, garnish with croquettes of potatoes, and serve while very hot. Braised Fillet of Veal.—Select a nice piece of fillet of Veal, any part can be used ; put a lump of butter in a saucepan, melt it, put in the Veal, anil brown it on both sides. Pour clear broth or water over the Veal, put the lid on, and steam over a slow fire, basting occasionally with its own liquor. Peel and slice a carrot and onion, and put them in a saucepan with a small quantity each of lemon-peel, mace, and thyme; pour in £ pint of water, and boil for twenty minutes. Strain the seasoned water over the Veal, and continue cooking it. When the meat is tender, drain it, place it on a hot dish, and garnish with slices of lemon and crisped rashers of bacon. Skim the fat off the cooking-liquor, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and serve with the meat in a sauce-tureen. Braised Fillet of Veal with. Sweetbread.—Cut off a fillet from a leg of Veal, lard it on one side, and turn it over on the table with the larded side downwards. Blanch a sweetbread, dry it, brush over with egg, dip it into breadcrumbs, and fry in butter to a golden colour; take it out, drain it, place it on the fillet, roll it up, fasten with a skewer, put it in a braising-pan with a little stock and sliced vegetables, and braise it. Take it out, put it on a dish, reduce the liquor after straining, pour it over the cutlet, arrange round a dozen or so oysters and small balls or cones of cooked carrot rubbed through a sieve and worked up with butter, salt, and pepper, and serve with thick gravy or sauce in a sauceboat. Braised Knuckle of Veal.—Lard thoroughly a knuckle of Veal weighing 31b., braise it in a pan with loz. of fresh salt pork, 1 table-spoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoon - ful of pepper. Cook for fifteen minutes, stirring occasion- ally, and moistening with ^ pint each of white broth and Spanish sauce. Add 1 pint of raw jardiniere, and 1 breakfast-cupful of flageolets. Cook for forty-five minutes all together. Transfer the knuckle to a hot dish, pour the garnishing over, and serve very hot. Braised Larded Veal Cutlets with French Beans.— Trim some small Veal cutlets, keeping the bone very short, and lard them all on the same side with bacon. Put the cutlets in a stewpan with some minced vege- tables and clear stock, and braise them. When cooked, glaze the cutlets. Boil some French beans in salted water till tender, then drain them, choir them finely, and mix a little butter with them. Put a flat mound of mashed Veal—continued. potatoes on a hot dish, pile the beans in the centre, lean the cutlets against the beans, and serve with a sauceboat- ful of gravy. Braised Loin of Veal.—(1) Remove the bone from the loin, and lard it with thick strips of bacon. Put some thin slices of bacon in a stewpan, sift over some chopped parsley, chives, and a clove of garlic, add a bunch of thyme and laurel-leaves, put in the larded Veal, season with salt and coarsely-ground black pepper, cover with slices of carrots, onions, and turnips, moisten with stock to a little more than half its height, and cook gently for half-an-hour. When cooked, put the Veal on a hot dish, strain the sauce through a silk sieve, boil it quickly till reduced, then pour it over the Veal, and serve. (2) Stuff a loin of Veal with Veal-stuffing, and skewer it securely. Put some slices of carrots, onions, and celery in a braising-pan, put in the loin, and cover it with a sheet of thickly-buttered paper. Pour in sufficient stock or water to reach to the top of the Veal, but not to cover it. Put the lid on the pan, with live embers on it, and braise the meat over a slow fire, basting it often with the cooking-liquor. When the Veal is cooked (it will take about three hours), drain it, and put it on a baking-dish; boil the cooking liquor quickly till reduced to the consistency of half-glaze, then pour it over the meat, and put it in the oven. Baste the Veal continually till lightly glazed, then put it on a hot dish, garnish with onions, carrots, and tomatoes, pour the remains of the cooking liquor over, and serve. Braised Loin of Veal with Cream Sauce.—Braise a loin of Veal, and when done bone it, keeping it as good a shape as possible; this will be done better when the Veal is cold. Cut the meat into thin slices, put them in a deep frying-pan, moisten with a little rich gravy, and warm slowly without boiling. Put l handful of trimmings of fresh mushrooms in 1 pint of bechamel sauce, and stir it over the lire for fifteen minutes; pass it through a fine hair sieve, then boil it till reduced, stirring and adding gradually the liquor in which the Veal has been warmed. When reduced to a thick consistency, remove the sauce from the fire. Cover the bottom of a gratin- disli with a layer of the sauce, and arrange symmetrically the slices of meat, one by one, alternating each of them with a little of the sauce. Coat the top of the meat with some of the sauce, grate some stale breadcrumb over it, and brown in a quick oven or under a salamander. When done, drain off the fat, pour over a little rich gravy, and serve the Veal. Braised Heck of Veal with Truffles.—Trim a neck of Veal, that part used for cutlets, cut the bone short, and lard it with squares of black truffles in such a way as to resemble a draught-board. Braise the meat with plenty of bacon on the top, so that it will retain its white colour, and glaze the Veal slightly. Put the meat on a hot dish, cover with Italian sauce and truffles, and serve it. Braised Hoix of Veal.—Choose a small noix of a young female calf, flatten it a little, retaining the udder, form a crescent on the border of the fat, and pare the part where there is no fat. Lard the Veal thickly with bacon. Line a braising-pan with layers of fat bacon and slices of vegetables, add a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaves, and a small quantity of mace, allspice, and whole pepper. Put the Veal in the pan, dust a small quantity of salt over it, cover with bacon, pour in sufficient broth to cover the vegetables without reaching the Veal, put the lid on the pan with some hot ashes on the top, and cook the contents over a slow fire. When cooked, glaze the Veal slightly, put it on a hot dish, and serve with macddoine sauce. Braised Hoix of Veal with Bechamel Sauce.—Remove the udder and pare a cushion of Veal, lard it inwardly with fillets of bacon, and season it. Line a braising-pan with trimmings of ham and bacon and some sliced vege- tables ; put in the cushion with about 1 teacupful of broth, cover with bacon, and put the lid on. Place some