690 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Veal—continued. When cooked, remove the string and bacon from the meat, put it on a hot dish, garnish with the potatoes (see Fig. 939), and serve with a sauceboatful of brown sauce that has been reduced with white wine and essence of truffles. Cushion of Veal au Gratin.—Braise a cushion of Veal, and when tender take it out of the stewpan and leave till cold. Trim the cushion to a round shape, make a circular incision on the top, and empty it out with a knife, leaving a bottom to it about “2in. in thickness. Cut the meat from the middle of the cushion into small squares, and put them into a saucepan with a third of its quantity of cooked mushrooms and truffles, also cut into small pieces. Pour in with the chopped meat some thick brown sauce, season with a little pepper and salt, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes. Pour the above mixture into the hollow of the Veal, coat it over the top with thick sauce, sprinkle with some grated breadcrumb, and pour over them some hot butter. Put the meat in the oven and- baste it frequently till nicely browned. Pour a little rich gravy round the meat, garnish with potato croquettes, and serve with a sauceboatful of half- glaze. Cushion of Veal a la Polonaise.—Lard a cushion of Veal with bacon, braise it, and when tender leave it till nearly cold in the cooking-stock. Cut the Veal transversely into slices, then pile it on a dish in its original shape, alternating each slice with some minced mushrooms that have been mixed with a little thick sauce, and finishing with a layer of the minced mushrooms. Sprinkle some grated bread- crumb over, place a few bits of butter on the top, and put the cushion in the oven ; baste it frequently. In about twenty minutes’ time slip the Veal carefully on to a hot dish, surround it with brown sauce that has been reduced with the cooking-liquor of the cushion, and serve. Cushion of Veal a la Soubise.—(1) Bone a cushion of Veal, trim off the skin surrounding the udder, and lard the meat with thin strips of bacon. Place a small quantity of lard in a stewpan, together with some trimmings of raw ham and sliced vegetables, put in the cushion, dust a little salt over, and moisten to height with white wine and clear stock in equal quantities ; put in a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, the pulp of a lemon without peel or pips, three or four cloves, and six peppercorns. Lay a sheet of buttered paper over the meat, stand the stewpan over the fire till the liquor commences to boil, then move it a little to the side; put some live embers on the lid, and cook the cushion for two or three hours, according to the size, basting it fre- quently. Prepare a rich onion puree, and put it in the middle of a hot dish. When cooked, drain the meat, pile it on the puree, mix a little broth with the cooking- liquor, and boil quickly till reduced to half-glaze. Skim the fat off the sauce, strain it through a fine hair sieve over the meat, and serve. (2) Lard a cushion of Veal with bacon, and let it macerate for ten hours in Madeira with a few trimmings of truffles, sweet herbs, cloves, anti peppercorns. Put some slices of onions and carrot, and some trimmings of bacon and pork in a stewpan, put in the meat, pour the marinad- ing liquor over it, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and stand it over the fire till on the point of boiling. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put some live embers on the lid, and braise the meat for three or four hours, according to size. When cooked, drain the cushion, put it on a hot dish, skim the fat off the cooking-liquor, mix a little gravy with it, then boil it up. Pass the sauce through a fine hair sieve over the meat, and serve it with a puree of chestnuts in a separate dish. Celery may be served with the Veal in place of chestnuts, if preferred. Fillets of Veal d la Brisse.—Cut a fillet of Veal into slices 5in. long and about lin. in thickness, beat them flat, and spread a layer of Veal forcemeat on them. Roll the fillets up, and tie them round with twine. Line a sauce- pan with some thin slices of bacon, put in the fillets, dust in a small quantity of pepper and salt, ami pour in % pint of white wine and stock mixed in equal quantities ; put the lid on the saucepan, and cook the contents over a slow fire. When the fillets are cooked, pile them like a pyramid on For details respecting Culinary Process's, Utensils, Veal —continued. a hot dish. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, skim off all the fat, and boil up again. Pour the sauce over the fillets, and serve. Fillets of Veal en Croustade.—Make a batter of polenta, stir it over the fire till thick, then pour it into a buttered tin and leave till cold. Turn the polenta on to a baking- sheet that has been covered with a round sheet of paper, carve it fancifully on the outside, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, and put it in the oven till set. Glaze the croustade, scoop it out a little at the top, put it on a dish, and keep hot. Trim three minim fillets of Veal, put them in a baking-dish with some thin slices of bacon under and over them, pour a little warmed butter over, and roast them in a moderate oven, basting frequently with the drippings in the pan. The fillets must not be overdone. Cut the fillets into equal- sized oblong slices, put them in a stewpan, cover with veloute sauce that has been reduced with essence of mush- rooms, and keep them hot. Cut some slices off an ox- tongue that has been boiled at the same time, trim them to the same size as the pieces of Veal, put them in another stewpan, and glaze with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze. Prepare some mushrooms as for garnish, put them in the centre of the croustade, arrange a circle of slices of Veal round them, alternating each slice with one of tongue. Place ten or twelve Veal forcemeat quenelles that have been poached in water on the top, and put a few truffles in the centre at the top. Brush the quenelles over with a paste brush dipped in veloutd sauce, then serve the croustade. Fillet of Veal with Brain Fritters.—Cut off a fillet from a leg of Veal, and nib it well over with the juice of a large mushroom, extracted by breaking it up and sprinkling salt over. A little grated orange-rind and cayenne, if added, are an improvement. Dip the fillet in flour, brush over with egg, jilunge it into boiling fat, and fry it; or wrap it in oiled paper and grill it over a clear fire. Cut a calf’s brain into equal-sized pieces, blanch them, and steiv in stock for about a-quarter-of-an-hour. Prepare a tbickish batter with the yolk of an egg, 2oz. of Hour, 1 table-spoonful of olive oil, and warm water; when ready, beat in the yolk of an egg whipped to a froth. Drain the pieces of brain, dip them into the batter, plunge into boiling fat, fry, and drain them. Put the fillet on a dish, arrange the brain fritters and fried slices of potato round, also sprigs of fried parsley round the rim of the dish, and serve with thick brown sauce in a sauceboat. Fillet of Veal Larded with Anchovies (aux Anchois).— Lard a thick slice cutoff a fillet of Veal with fillets of anchovies, and dust over with salt and pepper. Put the fillet in a dish, cover with vinegar, and let it macerate for seven or eight hours. Drain the Veal, Hour it well on both sides, put it in a frying-pan with plenty of olive oil, and cook over a slow fire, turning it often. When cooked, put the Veal on a hot dish, squeeze the juice of a lemon into the frying-pan with the oil, stir it over the fire for two or three minutes, then pour it over the fillet, and serve. Fricandeau of Veal.—(1) Fricandeau of Veal is properly made from that round muscle which is found on the inner side of the leg of Veal, and is called the noix or cushion. To obtain it the rest of the leg must be used for dishes which do not require special cuts; a thick cutlet is sometimes used as a fricandeau. Use a medium - sized larding-needle and strips of fat salt pork cut less than a-quarter of-an-inch square and 2in. long; put the strips of pork or lardoons one by one into the split end of the needle, and take a succession of stitches about ^in. long and deep in the upper surface of the Veal in a line down the centre; then make other lines of lardoons on both sides of the centre line, letting the ends of the lardoons come between each other, until the upper sur- face of the Veal is thickly larded. After the Veal is larded it may be braised or baked. The fricandeau can be baked on a bed of vegetables, which may subsequently be rubbed through a sieve with a masher and form the basis of a Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.