681 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Vanilla—continued. Vanilla Water-Ice.—Pound sufficient Vanilla pods in a mortar to flavour lqt. of water. Put lqt. of water in a saucepan with the pounded Vanilla and ill), of loaf sugar. Boil the ingredients together, then strain the mixture through a fine hair sieve; squeeze in the juice of one lemon, put it in the freezing-pot, and freeze. Vanilla Whipped Cream.—(1) Boil a little Vanilla in a small quantity of milk ; strain it, and add the milk to 1 pint of cream, together with a small quantity of gum dragon, a little orange-flower water, and sufficient powdered white sugar to sweeten it. Whip all these together to a froth, and pile it on a glass dish. (2) Put 1 pint of sweet cream into a basin. Have a tub or large dish or pan containing chopped ice and a little water, and lay the hasin on top. With a soft wire egg- whisk beat the cream slowly at first, and increase in swiftness until it is a firm froth. Sweeten with 2oz. of powdered sugar, and add 1 teaspoonful of Vanilla flavour- ing, beating constantly. Let it rest, and use when needed. Remove all the superfluous milk which may he found with the cream before using it. VASES (Fr. Vases; Ger. Vasen; Ital. Vasi; Sp. Vasos).—The artistic cook and confectioner knows no limit to the variety of these vessels, which he uses in the preparation of ornamental dishes. Nor is he lacking in the variety of materials from which these Vases are made: alabaster, sugar, glass, gold and silver, gum paste, marzipan, flour paste, plaster of Paris, fat, or any other material capable of being worked into shape. Illustrations of Vases in use will be found in this Ency- clopaedia, some forming a centre piece for a cake, for holding flowers, bonbons, truffles, fruits, and other things. VATROVSKIS.—A kind of savoury pasty of which the Russians are exceedingly fond. They are prepared as follow: Put 14oz. of any white cheese into a cloth and squeeze out all the moisture; place it in a mortar with a small lump of butter, and pound it to a smooth paste. Season well with grated nutmeg and salt, turn it into a basin, and work in with a spoon the yolks of four eggs. Have ready about lib. of coulibiac paste, work it well with the hand on a floured table or hoard, and let it get cold. Fig. 929. Vatrovskis. Roll it out rather thin, cut it into little rounds, put a small quantity of the cheese mixture in the centre of each, damp the edges, fold them over into a crescent shape, and trim them. Put them on a well-buttered baking-sheet a little apart (see Fig. 929), let them stand for about twenty minutes in a slightly warm place, push them into a moderate oven, and bake. Take them out when done, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. VATS.—Large vessels used for holding wine or beer. VEAIi (Fr. Veau; Ger. Kalbfleiscb ; Ital. Vitello ; Sp. Ternera).—It is acknowledged by cooks and butchers that although British beef is superior m every way to that of France, we are quite incapable of holding our own against their Veal. This is said to be due to the mode of slaughtering adopted by French butchers, and not to superior breeding—the calf is bled before it is killed, and bung head downwards for several days to induce the blood to drain from the incision made in the neck. Such V eal—contimied. barbarous cruelty is condemned in this country and rendered punishable by law; but it is to be feared that instances of its practice are not altogether unknown. As the cook will have white Veal when it is to be got, large quantities of slaughtered calves are imported from France and Belgium. In this country, the cow-calf is more frequently raised to maturity for the sake of her milk and progeny, but the Continental breeder prefers to supply the first demand, saving the cost of keep, and selling what there is of the animal at a much higher price than could be obtained for beef. There are considerable differences in the quality of Veal, which are easily detected. First, as to size—a large Hereford calf is not reckoned so good as the smaller Alderney, this being due to the breeds and the quality of the mother’s milk upon which the calf has been fed. Then again, the meat of a bull-calf is darker, firmer, and more juicy than that of a cow-calf; but some parts of a cow-calf are much to be preferred to the same parts of a bull-calf, chiefly because of the udder. The skilled cook, therefore, prefers the meat of the bull- calf for cooking in joints, and the whiter meat of the cow- calf for made dishes. The age of the calf influences the quality of the meat. From eight to twelve weeks is quite old enough to ensure the delicacy of the flesh, but in some parts of the country calves are killed all the year round, and in Dorsetshire they are rarely suffered to enjoy the delights of this world longer than three weeks. Another practice of the butchers that should be deprecated is that of blowing out the meat so as to render the flesh less cadaverous-looking by the filling out caused by the air bubbles. The steel is thrust as far as it will go through a small slit on the inside of each leg between the skin and the flesh. Into this passage a pipe is then introduced, through which the butcher blows with all his might, inflating the cellular membrane as far as he can, and then working it along with the hand until it is evenly distributed throughout. In the first place the meat spoils more readily when thus treated, and in the second place the breath of the butcher is not always of the kind that those of delicate stomachs would care to have diffused through their food. When selecting Veal, see that the fat over the kidneys is plentiful, white, and firm; when this fat softens, the meat is stale. The veins of the shoulder should be blue or bright red; when they are of any other colour, the meat is not freshly killed. When the flesh is clammy and spotted, it is unfit for culinary use. Veal keeps very badly at all times of the year, and as it is in season from May to September it should be examined very critically, and cooked within three or four days of slaughtering. The part of the leg where the udder is skewered back very soon turns, and unfortunately when once tainted, Veal cannot be restored. To prevent such a contretemps, the flesh should be frequently wiped with a dry cloth, the skewer pinning the udder should be taken out frequently and wiped, the pipe along the chine of a loin should be cut out directly the Veal comes from the butcher, and the skirt of the breast should also be trimmed off, and the whole scraped, wiped dry, and dredged with flour. If the meat be in danger of tainting from compulsory keeping, it is advisable to plimge it into boiling water and boil it for