THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 790 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Wines—continued. occasionally. When cooked, skim the fat off the sauce, and serve it. (3) Put 1 table-spoonful of potato flour into a saucepan, and stir in gradually § pint of sherry. Beat the yolks of four eggs, mix them with the Wine, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and dust in a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Stir the sauce over the fire till thick and on the point of boiling, then take it off at once: it is then ready for serving. The sauce must not boil after the eggs are added, or they will curdle. (4) Put into a saucepan 4oz of apricot marmalade with \ gill of cold water, place it on the fire, and stir until boiling; then take it off, and add immediately 4 pint of Tokay Wine, stirring thoroughly for one minute. Strain through a sieve, and serve. (5) Beat up the yolks of four eggs with 4 wineglassfuls of sherry, and mix 1 table-spoonful of potato flour smoothly with them. Strain the mixture, sweeten it to taste with caster sugar, flavour it with moderate quan- tities of powdered cinnamon and grated lemon-peel, and mix in 2 more wineglassfuls of sherry. Pour the sauce into an enamelled saucepan and stir it over the lire with a wooden spoon until boiling and thickened. It is then ready for serving. (6) Cut some lean beef into thin slices, put it into a frying-pan without butter, dripping, or grease of any kind, set it over a not too hot fire, cover with a large plate turned upside-down if no better cover is at hand, and let it remain over the fire till the gravy that comes from the meat is dried into it again; then add as much water as will cover the meat, and let it simmer till the water is dried up; add more water, but not so much as before, a seasoning of spice, onions, and sweet herbs, and a small piece of lean ham; let it simmer till the gravy is very good, strain it then, and let it stand in a cool place. When quite cold, take off the fat, warm up about 4 pint of the gravy, and add to it 2 table spoonfuls of port Wine; or | pint of gravy may be made from the jelly at the bottom of a bowl of dripping and the port Wine added to it. Wine Sauce for Fish.—Put 1 teacupful each of stock and Wine into a saucepan, and if the fish has been cooked in Wine, mix in also the cooking.liquor. Put a lump of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a frying-pan, anil stir it over the fire till browned, then mix it in with the sauce. Stir the sauce over the fire till boiling, and strain it through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan ; skim off all the fat as it rises, and let it simmer by the side of the fire for a few minutes. Squeeze in the juice of a lemon, mix a pinch of cayenne in with the sauce, and serve. Wine Shape.—Put 2oz. of isinglass in 1 pint of water in a stewpan, let it boil gently till melted, then strain it through muslin. Beat the yolks of six eggs with 5 talile- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and mix with them the juice of two small lemons or one large one, and 1 pint of white wine. Beat the mixture thoroughly, then pour it into a lined stewpan with the dissolved isinglass, and stir it one way only over a slow fire. The mixture must not boil, but when it thickens take it off the fire and pour it into a mould. Pack the mould in pounded ice and leave it for several hours. Before serving, dip the mould quickly into hot water to loosen the contents, wipe it, and turn the shape out on to a glass dish. . Wine Soup. -(1) Put the yolks of twelve eggs and the whites of six into an enamelled saucepan, and beat them thoroughly ; pour in 1 4 breakfast-cupfuls of water, add 6oz. of loaf sugar, the grated yellow rind and strained juice of a large lemon, and 14 pints of white Wine. Whisk the soup over a gentle fire until frothed and on the point of boiling, then move it off immediately, turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of small sponge cakes or fancy biscuits. The soup should be served directly it is ready, as the froth will very soon go down. (2) Boil 1 pint of water with a stick of cinnamon and the peel of half a lemon until nicely flavoured, then strain it. Return the water to the saucepan with 1 pint of Wines—continued. Wine (either red or white), sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and stir in the well beaten yolks of six eggs and the whites of two. Stir the soup over a slow fire till on the point of boiling, then move it to the side. Cut a French roll into thin slices, toast them crisp and brown, cut them into quarters, put them in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over them, and serve while very hot. (3) Put 2 pints of German Wine and 1 4 pints of water in a saucepan with some sugar, cinnamon, and pounded cardamom-seeds to taste, and boil them. Fry some slices of well baked rye bread with half the quantity of white bread in butter. When browned, drain the lnread, put it in a mortar with some sugar, and pound ic Press the pounded bread into a mould, then turn it on to the centre of a deep dish. Stir the beaten yolks of three eggs into the soup, and move it to the side of the fire. Garnish the dome of bread with blanched almonds and some pieces of candied orange-peel, pour the soup ovei it, and serve. (4) Finely chop some lemon-peel, pound some cardamom- seeds, and grate some rye bread. Put the above ingre- dients in a saucepan with 1 pint of water, stir them, and boil for several minutes; then mix in 14 pints of Wine. Do not boil the soup after the wine is added. When hot, turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve. (5) Put 4oz. of well washed rice into a saucepan with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water and the thin rind of a lemon, and boil until the rice is perfectly soft. Pour in gradu ally 1 pint of white Wine, sweeten to taste, and a few minutes before serving mix in the well whisked yolks of four eggs. (6) Put the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four into a saucepan and beat them well; add Jib. or so of crushed loaf sugar to sweeten, the grated peel and juice of a lemon, 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water, and lastly 1 pint of any white Wine. Set the pan over a slow tire and whisk vigorously until the liquor is about to boil, by which time it should be well frothed. It must be served at once with sweet biscuits or sponge cake. (7) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of Hour into a stewpan with 2oz. of ibutter, and stir them over the fire until nicely browned; then pour in gradually lqt. of water and 14 pints of white Wine, stir it over the fire until boiling, and flavour with lemon-peel and cinnamon. Beat the yolks of six eggs and stir them into the soup, being careful not to let it boil again or they will curdle. Cut a couple of slices of toasted bread into small squares, put them in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over them, removing the lemon-peel and cinnamon, and serve. Wine Soup a la Monastere.—Wash 4oz. of rice in plenty of water, put it in a saucepan with the peel of a lemon, 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and boil till quite soft. When the rice is cooked, stir in gradually a bottle of white Wine, sweeten to taste with crushed loaf sugar, and boil it up again. Beat the yolks of four eggs in a soup, tureen, turn the soup into it, and serve. Wine Soup with Dried Fruit and Bread.—Wash 1 break- fast-cupful of currants, put them in a saucepan with an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, the thinly-pared rind of one lemon, and a stick of cinnamon ; pour in lqt. of white Wine and 1 pint of water, sweeten the soup to taste with sugar, and place it over the fire till on the point of boil- ing. Beat the yolks of six eggs in a soup-tureen, then pour in the boiling soup, stirring it at the same time with a wooden spoon. Serve the soup with a plate of small sponge cakes. Wine Soup with Lemons.—Thickly slice two or three lemons, remove the seeds, cover them thickly with caster sugar, and lay them in a soup-tureen. Put 2oz. or 3oz. of butter in a saucepan, make it hot, then throw in 1 breakfast-cupful of grated breadcrumb, and stir them over the fire until crisp and brown. Strew the breadcrumbs over the slices of lemon. Mix 1 pint of water with lqt. of white Wine, sweeten to taste with sugar, put it over the fire until boiling, then pour it over the slices of lemon. Leave the soup for three or four minutes, keeping it closely covered, then serve it with sponge cakes.