THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 782 For details respecting Ordinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Wines—continued. either white or red. A great deal of it is brought to Santa Maria, Cadiz, and shipped thence as sherry. Malaga is noted as having three vintages per annum—the first in June, producing a rich sweet Wine; the second in October, producing a good sherry; and the third in November from the mountains, the Wines being described as “ sweet, luscious, and dry.” The Wines of Algeria are rapidly improving in quality, the soil and climate being exceptionally favourable for grape growing ; they are likely to become very popular. In Austria and Hungary some fine Wines are prepared, notably Imperial Tokay. Besides those Wines already mentioned, others are to be met with in abundance, and, when of sufficient importance, are described under their own headings. Those of which little or no mention is made may be regarded as valuable only for mixing. This is especially the case with Colonial Wines, some of the best being consumed locally, and the worst used as the basis for others. In concluding this part of the subject we may repeat the words used in an important contemporary as sum- marising the question of the qualities of Wines. “ The Wines of the South of France are strongly alcoholic, stimulating, and of a warm flavour. Some of them are highly aromatic and saccharine, and all possess a fine delicate aroma. Those of Champagne and Burgundy are moderately alcoholic, full-bodied, and delicately perfumed. They are both red and white. The Spanish Wines, port, sherry, and Madeira, are the most alcoholic Wines made; the former is dark in colour, and the two latter are white or golden; all of them have an exquisite bouquet. The Wines from the Rhine are dry and acid, of a light flavour, and poor in alcohol, and of a fine golden colour. Bordeaux Wines (clarets) are tonic and astringent, nutritive, stomachic, and of a delicate flavour and per- fume. Those of Tokay, Alicante, Malaga, Malvesie, and Cyprus are very saccharine, tonic, and stimulating.” Qualities of Wine.—Some very practical remarks on the testing of Wines have been contributed to Spoil’s “Encyclopaedia of Manufactures and Raw Materials,” and as they give hints that are valuable, they are repro- duced here: “ The good or bad qualities of a Wine may be recognised by the application of three senses—sight, smell, and taste. An eye accustomed to the examination of Wines can readily discover whether the colour is homogeneous or not, and whether it is natural or artificial. By the sense of smell the aroma of different Wines is distinguished one from another; this method of examination becomes an almost infallible indicator when the organs of smell are extremely sensitive. The sense of taste, when care- fully exercised, is the most to be relied on. When a Wine is pure and unadulterated, the different component principles are blended together, forming a perfectly homogeneous whole, which leaves one flavour only upon the tongue and the roof of the mouth; but when the Wine is the result of a mixture, the constituents are not intimately combined but merely loosely mixed. By keeping such Wine in the mouth for a short time, the warmth volatilises the lighter and more volatile con- stituents, rendering them at once sensible to the roof of the mouth, while the extractive and heavier matters are made evident to the tongue and lower part of the mouth; if the Wine has been diluted with water, it is detected at once by a practised taster, by a sensation of flatness and insipidity.” Several instruments, such as saccharometers, thermo- meters, oenometers, and others, are frequently used in the testing of Wine, and ascertaining its saccharine, vinous, and alcoholic properties. See Alcohol. Besides a natural difference in quality, all Wines are subject to influences which detract very considerably from their value, some of which are preventible, others Wines—continued. curable, whilst some render the Wine completely lost. Those which are due to causes that may be regarded as unaccountable or unpreventible are classed as natural disorders; these are ropiness, sourness, bitterness, and loss of colour. Other disorders may be the result of frost, exposure to the air, or taints from the cask, mouldi- ness, and the use of bad eggs in clarifying. From the writings of an expert in Wines we gain the following information : When a Wine becomes ropy, it loses its fluidity, and becomes oily. White Wines are subject to this disorder, and especially those which have not been allowed to complete their fermentation. It occurs chiefly after a rainy season, when the Wine contains but little tartar and tannin. It rarely needs special treatment, as the Wine usually recovers in the course of time ; if it does not, a good cure is to add 30 grammes of pure tannin dissolved in half a litre of alcohol at 85deg. to a hogs- head, and to whip the mixture well in. Sourness is the most common disorder of all Wines; it occrn-s chiefly in Wines fermented in the presence of air. To avoid it, the casks destined to receive Wine should be sulphured; great care must be taken to allow as little contact with air as possible, both during fermentation of the must and the several racking operations. It is almost impossible to permanently restore a Wine which has advanced far in this malady, since it almost invari- ably re-appears after a length of time, however much care be taken to avoid it. The best way out of the diffi- culty is, either to mix it with a sweet Wine for immediate consumption, or to dispose of it to vinegar manufacturers, the latter being by far the wisest and most prudent course. Bitterness is a disorder that is liable to affect aged Wines, and especially Burgundy; its presence is usually announced by an alteration in the colour of the Wine. It may sometimes be relieved by dissolving in the Wine an ounce or so of tartaric acid and a small quantity of tannin, according to the degree of bitterness. This will generally suffice to restore the Wine to its natural flavour, or arrest the malady. In the course of a few days, after the additions have been made, the W ine should be racked off again into a sulphured cask, clarified, and purified with powdered vegetable charcoal. “ One of the principal accidental alterations of Wine,” says our authority, “ is the effect of heat.” Too high a temperature in the cellar is likely to excite active fermen- tation in the casks, which may result in the bursting of the casks, and the entire loss of the Wine. To prevent such a disaster, as soon as it can be ascertained that fermentation has set up again, some of the Wine should be drawn off, and air freely admitted to the cask to arrest the process before it goes too far and spoils the Wine. An effectual remedy is to fine with wood charcoal, and rack off into sulphured casks. The effect of intense cold upon Wine is peculiar, as a portion of it becomes frozen. It is advisable then to draw off the liquid Wine and leave the frozen part, which is water only, to itself. The Wine is improved by this, and greatly increased in strength; but if the frozen part he allowed to melt again whilst still in the unfrozen Wine, the colour will certainly be greatly deteriorated. Taints communicated to Wines from whatever cause, whether from mouldy casks or bad eggs used in clari- fying, are most difficult to remove. Frequent racking into sulphured casks, the free use of vegetable charcoal, whipping into it a quantity of very sweet oil, and skim- ming it off again, may be resorted to with some hope of success; but, excepting as a mixing Wine it will not be of much further value, as may be understood from the following words of practical wisdom : “ Wines which have been affected with any of the disorders mentioned above, and successfully treated (sic), should be at once disposed of for immediate consumption,