779 THE EE CYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. bor details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tbc., referred to, see under their special heads. Wines—continued. natural process, it can be retarded or hyper-excited by irregular or unsuitable temperatures. Science lias proved that in order to procure the best results from fermentation a steady temperature of 75deg. Fahr. should be maintained, which, under ordinary climatic variations, is next to impossible. A celebrated French chemist, Audibert, invented an ingenious apparatus by which a constant temperature can be maintained in the Wine throughout the period of fermentation. It is therefore exceptionally appropriate to the manufacture of British Wines, the climate here being less reliable than it is on the Continent during the vintage season. By the courtesy of Mr. J. Gilbert Smith we are enabled to give a drawing and a graphic description of this important contrivance (see Fig. 1060). The principle of the apparatus is that of maintaining an equilibrium of temperature throughout the process, which should be, as we have shown, steady at 7odeg. Fahr. The system of heating portions of the must, and adding continually, is not only awkward, but gives unsatisfactory results ; there- fore the invention of Audibert is cer- tainly worthy of every attention, for it comes to the rescue of the discomfited vintner, whose greatest difficulty con- sists in this keeping up a regular 75deg. By using Audibert’s apparatus the whole process is at command, and the temperature can be regulated to the fraction of a degree by merely the turning of a tap. And of what does this appa- ratus consist? Very little beyond the utensils required in any sort of Wine- making — a few lengths of piping and taps, a small stove, a reservoir, tanks, &c., and you have the whole thing complete, and the re- sult of your Wine- making no longer a question of doubt or difficulty. The tun f, which we shall call the must- tun, is very solidly made of pitch pine, and contains a little over 50 hectolitres (between 1,100 and 1,200 gallons of must), n is a cold-water cistern, fixed high enough above the vats to give a slight pres- sure, so as to keep up the circulation. For the same reason the bottom of the tun F is some 16in. above the bottom of the tuns m, m, m. After crushing the grapes, the mass is thrown into F by means of a door in the top, which can be readily removed. Through this door pass four tubes, reaching to the bottom of the tun, and perforated throughout their length; they communicate by union joints with the tube E, which conveys the warm water from the 22-tube heater a into the mass of the crushed fruit, F having been filled, and the fire lighted under the heater A ; the top of F is luted down with flour paste or clay, so as to be perfectly air-tight, the safety tube R being left open. Before the fire is lighted under the heater, cold water is allowed to flow into it through the movable tube O, down B or c. The water, as it is heated, rises through the tube c (or B, at discretion), and passing through the vessel d, is con- veyed through the tube E into the four perforated tubes W ines—continued. just described, in the very centre of the crushed grapes. The tube c is provided with a thermometer, so that as soon as the water reaches a temperature of 158deg. Fahr. the supply may be diminished until it gradually cools down to 122deg. Water of this temperature quickly dissolves out the sugar, salts, tannin, &c., of the fruit pulp, the must thus formed falling to the bottom of the vat, and passing, by means of the tube G, into the fermen- tation vats M, M, m, where it speedily begins to ferment. The precautions to be observed at this part of the process are: Not to light the fire under the heater A until it is full of water; always to leave the tap in the tube c open; not to allow the hot water to How through the tube c until it indicates 158deg. Fahr., and never to allow it to fall below 122deg.; and lastly, not to hurry the action of the hot water on the crushed fruit. This part of the operation should last at least three days, by which time the crushed fruit ought to be thoroughly ex- hausted. A sample of must should be drawn from the tun f from time to time through the tap inserted for that pui'pose, and tested by the saccharometer until it is ascertained that the whole of the saccharine matter has been extracted from the marc. All communication is now cut off between the liot-water apparatus A and the must-tun F by turning the tap in c. Hitherto the contents of the fermenting tuns m, m, m, have been kept sufficiently warm on account of a constant stream of warm must flowing into them; but now that the supply of warm must is cut off, other means must be adopted for keeping up the temperature. In order that fer- Fig. 1060. Audibkrt'.s Wine making Apparatus. mentation may begin and proceed under the most favour- able circumstances, the temperature in the fermenting- tuns must be maintained at from 86deg. to 95deg. Fahr. When the tap in the return tube J and the tap in the supply tube B are opened, the hot water from the heater A circulates up the tube b, through D, along the pipe h, h, Avhich may supply more vats than shown in the illustra- tion, down the vertical pipes i, i, i. Each of these latter pipes is fitted with a regulating tap, so as to shut off the supply to the vat to which it is attached. The hot water passes down the vertical supply pipes into large cheese- shaped chambers constructed of tinned copper, which occupy the very centres of the vats. These chambers communicate at their lower parts with the return-tube J. It will be seen from the foregoing description of the apparatus that the fermenting must in the A'ats M, M, M, &c., can easily be regulated to any degree of heat likely to be required for fermentation, and that one can be regu- lated without interfering with the other—a very great con- sideration, as otherwise the first vat would be the hottest, the next not so hot, and so on throughout the remainder.