724 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Fc., referred £o, see under their special heads. Vegetables—continu ed. on the same occasion, but would study appropriateness and particular excellence. This is a matter for study and combination, and a field for genius. It is a reasonable object for attention, as it is conducive to real enjoyment, and has nothing to do with mere display.” This is very true, and to tiie eye of the initiated nothing can be more ridiculous than to see an English dinner-plate heaped up with a confusion of Vegetables, none of them too well dressed, except the potato, which is always present, and generally good. Do those English worthies who cannot now eat a morsel of food unless accompanied with a potato ever try to imagine what dinners were two centuries ago, when potatoes were as rare as truffles ? Fig. 974. Spiral Vegetable-cutters. Kettner goes much more deeply into the subject. He observes : “ The great fault, however, of the English treat, ment of Vegetables goes much deeper than Walker indi- cates, and it is a moral fault, as well as one of taste—a great social wrong, as well as a gastronomical blunder. Take the genera] run of English tables, putting out of account the very poor and the highly refined; from one year’s end to another one will probably never on a single day see there a dish of Vegetables to be eaten alone. This is a political error; for there is many a poor man obliged most days to dine on Vegetables with nothing else; while our sleek middle-classes protest every day of their lives against this fare for themselves—they will never condescend to eat a Vegetable by itself. A fine example for their servants, who are taken from the poorer classes; and a fine thought for the peasantry to know that not only will their masters refuse a Vegetable din- ner—but also they will never look at a Vegetable as a thing to be eaten by itself! Scorn of the peasants’ food is all the more remarkable inasmuch as a vegetable dish may be the greatest delicacy of the table. This is one of the advantages which the Catholic religion has contrived for the French ; it has compelled them to make the best of Lenten fare. In Eng- land this is flat Popery; but it is a species of Popery to which the poor man is obliged to submit, and to which we ought all to be converted. At a French table the vegetable dish at the end of dinner is as much coveted and counted on as the pudding and tarts are by children at an English table. Almost the only Vegetable which Englishmen eat by itself is the arti- choke, and this entirely because it cannot be put on their plates with meat and eaten with a fork—they have to strip it with their fingers. There is something in aspa- Fig. 975. Crulls. Vegetables - continued. ragus, too, which conduces to the same arrangement; but if by any possibility, an Englishman can get the asparagus on the same plate with his meat, depend upon it, he will. He is not going to eat Vegetables alone— not he! “ Take this for a certainty : the greatest single step in advance for the English family dinner is to decree that Fig. 976. Position of Hands in Turning. regularly every day, either in addition to the pudding or in lieu of it, there shall be a dish of Vegetables nicely pre- pared. It is not a difficult thing to do, and there is an immense choice from the range of salads to asparagus, artichokes, potatoes, cauliflowers, sprouts, peas, kidney- beans, vegetable marrows, and thence again to rice and Indian corn. Let the cook stick to her broils and her roasts—she probably cannot in the way of meat do better —but let her superadd to her small modicum of accom- plishments the very simple craft of cooking Vegetables in such a manner that with their own fine flavour they can be eaten by themselves. This is a very little thing to ask for, but the results will be found to be immense.” From the foregoing re- marks it is quite evident that the cooking of Vegetables might be regarded as a distinct oooc» Fig. 978. Vegetable-cutters with Solid Handles (A. Lyon). Fig. 979. Vegetable-cutters with Tube Handles (Adams and Son). branch of the culinary art. In large establishments it is quite usual to engage a cook specially experienced in this department, who, acting under the chef, is known as the Vegetable cook. That the duties attached to this office are°exceedingly important, requiring considerable intelli-