TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 754 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. W affl.es—continued. Make the waffle-irons hot, grease the interior with butter or clarified fat, pour some of the batter in the deepest part, close them slowly, and hold them over a clear fire, fn two or three minutes, when the Waffles are browned on one side, turn the irons and brown the other side. When cooked, arrange the Waffles on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, strew caster sugar and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon over, and serve. WAITERS.—Trays used by waiters when sup- plying food or refreshments are known by this name. Under the heading Table Service will be found some very useful instructions in regard to the use of these, which are generally silver or electro-plated (see Fig. 1023), giving a decided brilliancy to the service that could only be acquired in this manner. Waiters, or salvers, as they are sometimes termed, from the Latin saluare—to save, the word being more properly applied to saucers, answer also as trays for holding a decanter of wine and glasses. For this purpose they are usually fitted with legs, as shown in the illustration. WAITING AT TABLE.—See Table Service. WALD-MEISTER.—See Asperule Odorante. Fig. 1024. Green Walnuts. WALNUTS (Fr. Noix; Ger. Walniisse; Ital. Noci; Sp. Nueces).—Amongst the Southern races of Europe the Walnut is the nut of nuts, hence it is simply styled nut; W alnuts—continued. but with us it is acknowledged to be a foreigner, and the term “ wal ” added (signifying foreign), from the Saxon wealh. At one time the Englishman’s ideal of a nut was a filbert, or cob-nut; but, as the Walnut was probably introduced into this country and cultivated Fig. 1025. Highflyer Walnut. here as early as the middle of the sixteenth century, it has since had plenty of time to become naturalised and a prime favourite, especially for dessert, or as an accompani- ment to wine. The Romans called it Jupiter’s nut, and the Greeks styled it Royal. According to Dr. Royle the Walnut (Juglans regia) grows over a very extensive domain: “ From Greece and Fig. 1026. Double Walnut. Asia Minor, over Lebanon and Persia, probably all along the Hindoo Klioosh to the Himalayas. It is abundant in Kashmir, and is found in Jirmore, Kumaon, andNepaul.” The trees sometimes grow to an enormous size and age, bearing prolifically season after season. The wood is so exceedingly valuable for making furniture that a planta- tion of Walnuts would yield most profitable results. Fig. 1027. Elongated Walnut. The free picking of the green fruit (see Fig. 1024) for pickling increases the size of those nuts that are left to ripen, and thus a double source of profit is ensured. There are several varieties of Walnuts brought to our British fruit-markets, the best being known as the High- dyer (see Fig. 1025); the Double Walnut (see Fig. 1026) is large and square, the fruit being comparatively small and lacking flavour. The Elongated Walnut (see Fig. 1027) grows very large, but the kernel is not particularly fine flavoured. The Titmouse Walnut has a shell so soft that