892 DESCRIPTIVE INDEX TO SPECIAL PLATES. Artistic Pastry (Savoury). Although this and the following Plate represent two distinct forms of pastry, they show that both are capable of exceedingly artistic treatment. Savoury pies are oftener served cold than hot, and this Plate illustrates the treat- ment of cold pastry only. In each case the garnishes are suitable accompaniments to the pies. Artistic Pastry (Sweet). The designs selected for this Plate are typical of the highest efforts in the various departments of the pastry- cook’s and confectioner’s art. Plawn, fruit pie, tartlets, cream-wafers, and imitation pat6-de-foie-gras, with suit- able surroundings, are here given, forming dishes that cannot be excelled for tasteful preparation or design. They have also the merit of simplicity. Artistic Pies and Pasties. Something novel and original in pies and pasties has long been a desideratum with the pastry-cook, whose efforts in this direction have usually been exceedingly limited. The designs here given are from the portfolio of a late famous club chef. Some excellent instructions will be found under Pies. Poultry-carving. In this Plate the direction of the cuts in different cases is indicated by dotted lines, which will be found useful as a guide, even though they are not transferred to the body of the bird. See Carving. Sausages. A few of the most familiar kinds of sausages are here displayed. Receipts for their manufacture will be found under appropriate headings. Artistic Serviettes (Nos. 1 and 2). These Plates may be regarded as a real boon, not only because they display the highest art of napkin- folding, but because in the text, under Serviettes, will be found the most intelligible and practical directions for folding the designs here depicted. Artistic Sugar-work. Freehand Sugar-piping.—By C. Norwak. Table Ornaments in Caramel and Spun Sugar. The renaissance, as it were, of sugar-working in this country demands every encouragement, and to that end these Plates are given as showing, not only what may be done, but also what has been done by artistic confec- tioners. The first illustrates designs of strictly ornamental character. In the second, sugar-piping—reckoned to be one of the highest branches of the confectioner’s art—is shown in masterly perfection, this Plate being a photo- graphic reproduction of a specified work by C. Norwak, a member of this staff, for which he was awarded a gold medal. The third Plate gives some instructive details of the construction of sugar ornaments that are fully described under Sugar-working. Artistic Supper Dishes (No. 1). The greatest taste in arrangement and garnishing is sometimes necessary to tempt capricious appetites, or it may be to do honour to some special guest. The use of ornamental paper cases contributes greatly to appearances, and these are shown to good effect in this Plate. Artistic Supper Dishes (No. 2). The free and artistic use of such garnishes as parsley, crimson salt, tomatoes, lemon, &c., add materially to the effect of the dishes they are used to ornament. See Lobster, Lamb, Sardines, &c. “ En Surprise ” (Surprise Dishes as Sweet Entremets or Centres for Buffets). The principal charm of these highly artistic specimens of the confectioner’s skill is that they are not altogether what they seem to be. The upper drawing represents a swan made of sugar or cake covered with sugar-icing. It is laden with choice sweetmeats and gaily decorated with a crown and garland of candied flowers. The swan is floating on a water made of jelly, lightly tinted green with spinach juice, the edges or banks being represented by sugar-rock bon-bons, candied flowers, and bulrush leaves of candied angelica. The lower drawing shows a cake made in the shape of a ham, hollowed out from underneath, and filled with sweetmeats or cream. The colour is obtained by choco- late-icing, and the body is surrounded by a garland of crystallised flowers. The bottles of champagne are real, or may be made of sugar and filled with liqueur; and the corks are small cakes made in suitable moulds, the interiors having been removed and replaced by richly- flavoured cream, and the cakes plugged up again with the first piece removed for hollowing. Some Sweets and Savouries. This Plate gives an artistic suggestion as to service; specimens of fritters, omelettes, ramekins, and patties, are tastily arranged on their dishes. Artistic Table-cloths (Nos. 1 and 2). Under Table Linen are given special instructions for the arrangement and ornamental fixing of table-cloths. These two Plates present a series of devices of a very high order and strictly practical in application. Table Ornaments Formed with Fat, Paste, or Sugar, on Wooden or Metal Foundations. The art of moulding has not been sufficiently practised or encouraged in this country, although the processes are simple and the results effective. In this Plate are a few designs for which moulds can be easily obtained. Trussing Poultry. The French or Continental system of trussing differs in many respects from that practised by the British poulterer. The foreign system has many advantages, which are depicted in this Plate. See Trussing. Artistic Modes of Serving Vegetables. According to the English cook’s method, vegetables are plainly cooked and still more plainly served as accom- paniments to joints and other viands. The foreign chefs treat vegetables, especially those of a rarer sort, as a separate course, and it then behoves them to expend some care in the mode of dressing and service. A few artistic suggestions are given in this Plate. A Wedding Breakfast-table. This Plate shows an elaborate arrangement of violets, orange-blossoms, and other lilac and white flowers appro- priate to the occasion. The fashionable looped muslin and lace skirt-cloth, festooned with trails of lilac and white iris, is very effective. The bride cake is covered by a stout wire cage-like structure, upon which white flowers are trailed, the whole with its surmounting bouquet being easily lifted off for cutting and serving. N