TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 780 For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to. see under their special heads. Wines—continued. It is not often that the must would require cooling in the vats M, M, M, but should such an occasion occur, the hot-water supply could be cut off, and cold water turned on instead, by connecting the cold water tank N with the pipe H, h, through the movable tube O. Bach fermenting vat is provided with a syphon tube of indiarubber p, which dips into a vessel of water, and allows the carbonic acid produced by the fermentation to escape. This is shown in operation on the first vat. If the must is kept at the prescribed temperature throughout the operation, the whole batch of Wine may be finished in ten days; an occasional glance at the thermometers L, L, L, and a touch of the taps letting in hot water at discretion, being all that is necessary to ensure success in the fermentation, and thus producing in any climate the highest quality of Wine. It must not be supposed that the foregoing description gives anything more than the merest outline of Wine- making, there being other processes and combinations of processes to which the Wine must further be subjected, in many instances of so complicated and mysterious a character that it would be impossible to describe them fully in less than a number of volumes. Sufficient details of manufacture have been given for our purpose; it is next with varieties that we have to deal. The system of classification of Wines adopted in France is as follows: 1. Grands Vins. 2. Vins Fins. 3. Vins Ordinaires. 4. Vins Communs. In class 1 (Grands Vins) are to be found such famous Wines as Chateau Lafite, Chateau Margaux, Chateau d’Yquem, Romance Conti, Cliambertin, Clos Vougeot, Montrachet, &c. In class 2 (Vins Fins) are included Saint Estephe, Saint Julien, Volnay, Pommard, Cote-Rotie, Chablis, &c. In class 3 (Vins Ordinaires) are many with only a moderate body and nothing very great in the way of flavour. In class 4 (Vins Communs) are found inferior Wines that ai-e chiefly used for distilling Cognac, Armagnac, or Trois-six of Languedoc. However useful such a classification may be for com- mercial purposes, it would be useless to the consumer, who prefers to classify his Wines in a more general manner. In Spon’s “ Encyclopaedia of Manufactures and Raw Materials,” the following remarks as to a more prac- tical classification are worth recording: “ Wines may be divided into several different classes, according to the point of view from which the classification is regarded. The most obvious division is that of colour; they may be either ‘ white ’ or ‘ red.’ “ White Wines are prepared from both white and black grapes, but the juice after expression is not allowed to remain in contact with the skins and seeds of the black variety, or it will extract the colouring matter. “Red Wines are made from black grapes only, and the must is allowed to lie upon the seeds and skins until it has attained the desired colour, which is sometimes assisted by the addition of other colouring matter, such as logwood, mulberry-, elderberry-, or black-currant juice. “ Wines are next classed as ‘ still ’ or ‘ sparkling,’ the quality of ‘ sparkling ’ being attained by putting a little cane sugar into the Wine before bottling, so as to keep up a slow fermentation, and drawing the Wine into bottles before the first fermentation has altogether subsided. “Then we have Wines that are ‘dry’ and ‘fruity,’ the former denoting the absence of free sugar, and the latter an abundance of fruit sugar, giving to the Wine a rich luscious taste.” Wine merchants also class Wines as simple and Wines—continued. compounded, or mixed, the latter denoting a mixture of two or more Wines for the purpose of blending their distinctive qualities of taste, bouquet, and colour. As individual Wines have been described under special headings, such as Claret, Champagne, Port, Sherry, &c., it will only be necessary for us here to make a few general observations concerning these Wines, their quali- ties and production. The Wines of Bordeaux are familiarly known to us as clarets. The popularity of claret has in this country fluctuated very much, it having been at one time the favourite drink of the upper classes. It now again promises to become as popular in England as it was about two hundred years ago, when our hostility to Louis XIV. of France resulted in breaking off commercial relations with that country, and opening up a trade with Portugal. Champagne is the produce of vineyards in the depart- ments of Aube, Ardennes, Marne, and Haut Marne. These Wines are classified, according to the site of the vineyards, into river or mountain growths, the former being for the most part white, the latter red. A writer on the subject tells us that “ Epernay, which is situated between hills in the midst of vine-lands, may be designated the head-quarters of champagne; for here, and in its immediate vicinity, is the best vine-land, the most extensive cellarage, and the finest palatial residences of the more eminent manufacturers. The cellarage of one firm alone, that of Moet and Chandon, is said be live miles in extent, all cut out of the calcareous rock, and containing on an average five million bottles of Wine. There are other cellars equalling the above-named for vastness and capacity, and in them is stowed the Wine of manufacturers whose names and brands are known to the whole civilised world.” Champagne is recommended by physicians as a valuable stimulant and tonic; but bad or fictitious champagne is highly injurious to health. To judge whether it is good or bad is not by any means an easy task, as brands and names of best manufacturers are very closely imitated. Mr. Braude tells us: “ The prevalent notion that a glass of champagne cannot be too quickly swallowed is erro- neous ; and it is no bad test of the quality of champagne to have it exposed for some time in a wineglass, when, if originally of the highest order, it will be found to have lost its carbonic-acid gas, but to have retained its body and flavour, which had before been concealed by its effervescence. Champagne, therefore, should not be drunk till this effervescence is over, by those who would relish the above characteristic quality.” Adjoining the champagne district in the south is the ancient province of the Dukes of Burgundy—les princes des bons vins. Burgundy is stronger than claret, and possesses an exquisite aroma, which, with its delicious full- bodied flavour, crown it in the estimation of epicures as the very king of Wines. White and red Hermitage derive that name from the ruins of an old hermitage that still exists on the summit of the hill, on whose slopes are planted the vines which yield the choicest quality. Red Hermitage is full bodied, of a dark purple colour, and very fine perfume and flavour. The colour fades somewhat after long keeping, just as that of port changes to a “ tawny.” There are five kinds of Hermitage, the best being Frmilage paille. Roussillon Wines, from the borders of the Mediter- ranean, are very deep-coloured full-bodied Wines. Masden is a bright red Wine; “ with a bouquet not unlike claret, yet partaking of a port character,” is the description given, with the additional remark that it is often substituted for port to be sold in England. The Rhine Wines are regarded by Dr. Henderson “ as constituting a distinct order by themselves. Some of the higher sorts, indeed, resemble very much the Vins de Grave, but in general they are drier than the French