THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 704 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. with 1 pint of water or hrotli. Baste as frequently as possible, and let it cook one hour. Put it on a dish, strain over the sauce, garnish with six stuffed lettuce- heads and a few croutons of fried bread, and serve. Stewed Breast of Veal with Sorrel.—Prepared and cooked the same as for Stewed Breast of Veal a la Nantaise, substituting 1 pint of cooked hot sorrel for the other garnishing. Stewed Breast of Veal with Turnips.—Cut half a breast of Veal into small pieces. Put |lb. of butter into a saucepan with 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes; then put in the pieces of Veal, and fry them till the meat has well set. Take the stew- pan off the fire, drain off the fat, pour in gradually sufficient broth and white wine mixed in equal quan- tities to cover the meat, put in a large onion stuck with three or four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little pepper. Put the saucepan on the fire till the liquor commences to boil, then move it to the side, and let it simmer. Peel some turnips, cut them into balls with a vegetable cutter, and blanch them for a few minutes; then drain them, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them till lightly coloured, seasoning them with a little pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar. Drain all the fat off the turnips, put them in with the meat, and finish cooking. When cooked, skim the fat off the stew, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve it. Stewed Chump of Veal with Cauliflower.—Bone a chump of Veal, tie it to its original shape, put it in a saucepan with h pint of Veal stock, and boil it quickly till the liquor is reduced to glaze. Pour lqt. of mirepoix in with the Veal, and keep it boiling gently by the side of the fire till the meat is tender. Divide some cauliflowers into small sprays, blanch them in boiling water for five minutes, then refresh them in cold water, drain them, put them in a saucepan with a small lump of butter, a little salt, and sufficient water to cover them. Boil the cauliflowers, keeping them rather under done, so that they may not break in dishing up. When cooked, glaze the meat, put it on a hot dish, and garnish it with the cauliflowers. Skim the fat off the gravy, boil it till some- what reduced, then strain it through a fine bail' sieve, and serve it in a sauceboat with the meat. Stewed Fillet of Veal.—(1) Bone a fillet of Veal, fill the cavity with Veal stuffing, then lard the fillet and half roast it. Put it into a stewpan with 2qts. of white stock, 1 teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup, and 1 teaspoonful of lemon pickle, and let it simmer very gently till sufficiently cooked. Strain the gravy, then thicken it with butter rolled in Hour, add a few pickled mushrooms and a little salt and cayenne, and pour it boiling over the Veal on the dish. Have ready two or three dozen forcemeat balls to put round and on top of it, lay some slices of lemon round, and serve. (2) Stuff a fillet of Veal in precisely the same way as for roasting, put it into a saucepan or stewpan with 1 pint of stock or water, a strip of lemon peel, a blade of mace, a seasoning of white pepper and salt, and a very little grated nutmeg, and let it stew gently, keeping the pan tightly covered for an-hour-aiul a-half. Take the Veal out then and strain the gravy. Put the strained gravy back over the fire with two dozen small oysters, a small lump of butter well rolled in flour, and h pint of white wine, put the meat in again, cover the pan closely, and let it stew for half-an hour. Just before taking it from the fire, stir in l pint of cream, and let it get quite hot; then take the Veal out, lay it on a hot dish, pour the gravy, which should be pretty thick, over it, and serve. (3) Stuff a fillet of Veal, lay it on a baking-dish, pour a little stock round it, and bake it until half cooked. When ready, put the Veal in a stewpan with its stock, some gravy, and a small quantity of Madeira, and finish cooking it. When quite cooked, strain the liquor off the Veal into a smaller saucepan, skim it, stir in smoothly 1 table-spoonful of flour, also mix in 1 table-spoonful of ketchup and the juice of one lemon, and season to taste with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Stir V eal—continued. the sauce over the fire until boiling and thickened. Place the meat on a hot dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve. Stewed Knuckle of Veal.—(1) Take a knuckle of Veal, break the bone well in two or three places, put it into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, eight shallots, a small quantity of whole black pepper, a blade or two of mace, and salt to taste, pour over it 5 pints of water, put it over the fire, and let it boil gently till the water is reduced to 2i pints. Take out the meat then, strain the gravy, stir into it 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir it over the fire till it boils, and boil it for ten minutes, stirring frequently. Then put back into the gravy the best part of the meat, cut nicely from the bone, add a very little cayenne, lemon juice to taste, and two glasses of Madeira wine, and let all get quite hot. Garnish with sippets of toast, slices of lemon, and piles of forcemeat balls (see Fig. 953), and serve. (2) Line a saucepan with pieces of fat and sliced onions. Saw the Veal bones just above the knuckle joints, put them in the saucepan with lib. of streaky bacon divided into halves and blanched, three small carrots, and a turnip cut into halves; add a bunch of sweet herbs, cloves, peppercorns and salt. Pour ^ pint of clear broth over the above ingredients, and boil it till reduced to half glaze; then pour in broth to three-parts their height, and boil it for a few minutes; then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it boil slowly till the vegetables are tender. Blanch and braise ten or twelve large lettuces and a cabbage, and glaze about thirty small onions. When the knuckles are cooked, put them by the side of each other on a hot oblong-shaped dish, cut the cabbage in quarters, and put it round them, with the lettuces and the rest of the vegetables. Skim the fat off the cooking stock, strain it through a line wire sieve into another saucepan, mix a little clear gravy with it, and boil it up again. Pour the sauce over the meat, and serve. Stewed Knuckle of Veal with Rice.—Break the shank bone and thoroughly wash a knuckle of Veal, put it in a saucepan, cover it with water, add a little salt, and put it over a slow fire. When the water boils, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, skim it, and let it simmer gently for about three-quarters of-an hour. At the end of that time, put an onion, two blades of mace, and -|lb. of well-washed rice in with the Veal, and cook it gently for two hours longer, or more if a very large joint. When cooked, put the Veal on a hot dish, pour the rice over it, garnish it with plain boiled vegetables, and serve it with a sauceboatful of parsley and butter sauce, with a piece of boiled bacon on a separate dish. Stewed Larded Veal Cutlets with Mushrooms.—Lard all the cutlets on one side with fillets of bacon, put them side by side in a stewpan, the bottom of which has been covered with finely-chopped carrots and onions, season them with salt, and pour in sufficient, clear broth to cover them. Put the lid on the stewpan, stand it over a brisk fire, and boil the liquor till reduced to one-third of its original quantity; then stand the stewpan at the side of the tire, and cook the cutlets slowly for tliree-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, glaze the cutlets with a paste-brush. Pass the cooking stock through a fine hair sieve, skim off the fat, mix with the stock a little white sauce that has been reduced with trimmings of mushrooms, and boil it up again. Pour it on to a hot dish, arrange the cutlets in a circle on it, fill the centre with a mushroom puree, and serve.