THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 739 Venison—continued. the edges of the paste with water, and press them firmly together, wrap the whole in a sheet of buttered paper, and roast it in front of a clear fire. A quarter-of-an-hour before taking the Venison up, remove the paper and paste. When cooked, take the joint carefully off the spit, put it on a hot dish (see Fig. 1004), and serve it with red-currant jelly, and a sauceboatful of poivrade sauce. Roasted Haunch of Venison.—(1) The haunch should always hang a considerable length of time, as the delicacy of its flavour is only obtained in this way; if it be cooked while fresh, it will not equal in taste even a haunch of mutton. When about to be roasted it should be washed in warm milk and water, and dried with a clean cloth; if it has hung very long and the skin smells musty, it will be the safest plan to remove the skin and wrap the whole of the haunch in paper well greased with butter. While roasting, it will require to be constantly basted. If it be a buck haunch, and large, it will take four hours or within five or ten minutes of it; but if comparatively small, three-hours-and-a-half will suffice. If a doe haunch, three-hours-and-a-quarter will be enough. Remove the paper when it is sufficiently cooked, and dredge quickly with flour to produce a froth. Dish (see Fig. 1005), and serve at once. The gravy should be sent to table in a sauceboat, accompanied by red-currant jelly. The haunch is not unfrequently roasted in a paste, which also is enclosed in paper, and removed when the joint is nearly cooked. (2) Wash a haunch of Venison and lard it, put it in a basin with 1 pint of salad-oil and £ pint of port wine, season with a sprig of thyme, two or three cloves, a little salt and pepper, and let it steep for two days. At the end of that time fix the Venison on a spit, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting it often with the liquor in which it was marinaded. When well browned, run a skewer through the Venison to ascertain if it is tender; if so, put it on a hot dish, pour some rich brown gravy round it, and serve with a sauceboatful of poivrade sauce. (3) Cut part of the knuckle off a haunch of Venison, saw off the chine-bone, and fold the flap over. Make a stiff paste with some flour and water, spread it thickly over the Venison, and tie in a sheet of thick paper; put it in a cradle-spit, place it close to the fire, and baste occasionally with hot dripping. When the paste has crusted, remove the Venison a little farther from the fire, and roast it for about four hours, keeping up a good clear fire. At the end of that time, take the Venison up, remove the paste and paper, try if it is cooked enough by running a skewer through it, which should go through easily. Put the Venison on a hot dish, glaze it, and brown it under a salamander; pour some rich gravy round, and serve it with some red-currant jelly in a glass dish. (4) Cover the Venison with a thick sheet of well- greased paper and bind it round with twine : put it in a baking-pan, place 2oz. of butter in small pieces on the top, and set it in a brisk oven. Bake the Venison for two hours, keeping it well basted. At tlie end of that time remove the paper from the Venison, put another large lump of butter on the top, pour 1 teacupful of claret into the baking-dish, and return it to the oven. Baste the meat often with the claret and butter in the pan; then, when baked for three-quarters-of-an-hour longer, take it out of the oven and put it on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the gravy. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of flour into a small sauce- pan, stir in slowly 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water, 1 teacupful of claret, and the skimmed gravy, scraping the sides of the pan well to mix in the brown; season the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, V enison—continued. gravy to taste with salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Mix a few drops of caramel with the gravy, stirring it very quickly at the same time, then strain it through a fine hair sieve over the Venison, and serve immediately with red-currant jelly. (5) English Style.—All the cut parts of the Venison should be dusted over with a small quantity of pepper before it is hung. When ready to cook the Venison, wash it in a little warm water, dry it on a clean cloth, and wrap it in a sheet of buttered paper. Make a flour-and- water paste, cover the Venison with it, taking care that there are no cracks in it, cover with another sheet of buttered paper, and tie it securely round with string. Fix the Venison in a cradle-spit and roast it before a clear fire, keeping it well basted. It will require from three hours to three-hours-and-a-quarter to cook. When cooked, remove the paste and paper from the Venison, place it on a hot dish, prick the Venison slightly at the end with the point of a knife to let the gravy run out, and serve with red-currant jelly. Roast Leg of Venison.—Remove the dry skin from the leg, wipe it with a damp cloth, and cover with a flour-and-water paste. Put the Venison in a baking-tin and roast in a very hot oven. Baste the meat constantly, cook it for an-hour-and-a-half, then remove the paste, coat it with butter, and dredge well with flour. Cook for one hour longer, basting frequently with butter, salt, and flour. When cooked, put the Venison on a hot dish, and serve it with a sauceboatful of game sauce. The above time is given for a leg weighing 151b. Roasted Neck and Shoulder of Venison.—These joints together may be dressed like the haunch, covered with a thin paste, and greased paper over that; it will take two- hours-and-a-half, or, if very large, three hours to roast. They should be served up with Venison sauce and red- currant jelly. Roasted Saddle of Venison.—(1) Procure a small saddle of Venison weighing about 5lb., pare it neatly, remove the sinews from the surface, and lard it with a larding- needle as finely as possible, tying it three times round. Put into a roasting-pan one sliced onion and one sliced carrot, lay in the saddle, seasoning with ] pinch of salt, spread over J2oz. of butter, and put it in a brisk oven to roast for forty minutes, basting it frequently with its own gravy. Untie before lifting it from the pan, and arrange it on a hot dish. Pour into the pan \ wineglassful of Madeira wine and 1 gill of white broth, and let it come to the boil on the stove. Skim off the fat, strain the lean part over the saddle, and serve with b pint of hot currant-jelly sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Wipe the Venison over with a damp cloth, having first carefully scraped off the hair, roll and skewer it, season with salt and pepper, mb it over with butter just warmed, and dredge it thickly with flour. Fix the Venison on a spit, and roast it in front of a good clea'i fire, bast- ing frequently. W hen about half cooked, baste the Venison with claret. Skim off all the fat from the dripping in the pan, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water, stir well, and stand it at the corner of the stove to keep hot. Put a slice of onion in a frying-pan with a little butter, five or six peppercorns, and four cloves. Fry the onion till brown, then dredge in a small quantity of flour; brown that, then stir in gradually the gravy in the pan. Boil it for a minute, then strain the gravy and mix in a squeeze of lemon-juice and 3 table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly with it. Put the Venison on to a hot dish, and serve with the gravy while very hot. (3) German Style.—Prepare a saddle of buck, cut the rib-bones off short, and if the loins are not covered with fat take oft the skin; or put the saddle, without cutting off the bones, into a stewpan, with a little salt, and pour over it about \ gall, of cooked marinade. Cover with a napkin or cloth, put it in a cool place, and let it remain to macerate for a day. Turn it frequently. About four hours before the saddle is wanted to be served, take it out, drain, wipe it dry on a cloth, put it in a pan for roasting with a small piece of butter and a pinch of salt, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 b 2