691 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Veal—continued. brown gravy; or it may be garnished after cooking with green peas or spinach, or served with a brown mushroom sauce. A larded fricandeau is a choice dish even when it is made from a thick cutlet if garnished with button mushrooms and truffles. When it is not desirable to use lardoons of pork or bacon, strips of cold boiled tongue may replace them, or of beef-fat, if it can be found sufficiently tough to permit it to be pulled through the rather dense fibre of uncooked meat. In larding Veal, the udder-fat (that portion which is usually attached to the end of a Veal cutlet cut from the leg) makes passable lardoons. This fat is rather more substantial than that which lies about the kidneys, and which would crumble if drawn into uncooked meat. If the thin fat membrane that is sometimes spread over spring lamb is cut into small squares, and then rolled in the shape of lardoons, it may be used instead of pork. (2) Skin a nice-shaped fillet of Veal, beat it, and lard it alternately with fillets of ham and bacon. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon, carrot, and onion, and add two calf’s feet cut up, and a few whole peppers. Put in the Veal, pour in lqt. of good broth and teacupful of vinegar, dust in salt, lay a few slices of lemon on the top, put the lid on the pan, and cook the Veal slowly for three hours by the side of the fire, basting it occasionally with the liquor. Care must be taken not to let the meat boil, as that will harden it. When cooked, drain the meat and leave it until cold. Colour the cooking-liquor with burnt sugar, and boil it until reduced to I pint. Strain the gravy through a fine hair sieve, leave it until a little cooled, then skim off all the fat and baste the Veal with it; after coating the Veal with the gravy, which should turn to a jelly as it gets cold, leave the remainder until cold, then cut it into small pieces. Put the Veal on a cold dish, garnish with the jelly, and serve. (3) Procure a thick cutlet from a leg of Veal, take out the bone, trim the cutlet neatly, and lard it with thin strips of smoked bacon. Make a sufficient quantity of stuffing to fill up the hollow left by the bone, with grated ham, champignons, and breadcrumbs; season with a small quantity of sweet herbs, grated lemon-peel, salt, and pepper, and bind it with beaten egg. Stuff the cutlet, levelling the stuffing off neatly with the flat blade of a knife. Lay it in a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs, cover with boil ing white stock, and keep it simmering slowly at the side of the fire till tender. The Veal will take about an-hour- and-a half to cook. Meanwhile stew some celery or sea- kale, and make 1 pint of white veloutd sauce. When cooked, drain the cutlet, and brown it under a salamander. Turn the stewed vegetables on to a hot dish, lay the cutlet on it, pour its cooking-liquor over, first removing the bunch of herbs, pour the veloute sauce round the dish, and serve while very hot. (4) Lard one side of a large chump chop with thick strips of bacon, and the other side with finer ones. Put the chop in a saucepan with two or three carrots and onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves, some trim mings of bacon, a little salt and pepper, and a little more than J pint of stock. Stew the chop gently over a slow fire, basting it occasionally with its cooking-liquor. V hen cooked, take the Veal out, pass the liquor through a fine hair sieve, and boil quickly till reduced to a creamy sauce; all the fat must be well skimmed off. Put the Veal in the sauce with a little glaze and a small quantity of stock, boil it up, then turn it on to a hot dish. Serve the fricandeau with a puree of either spinach or sorrel. (5) Cut a piece of Veal from the fat side of the leg, cut it 9in. long, 44in. wide, and 4|in. thick. Beat it well with the rolling-pin, skin it, and trim off any rough or jagged edges. Lard it well, cover with fat bacon, and wrap it then in white paper. Lay it in a stewpan with some bits of lean mutton or Veal, a carrot scraped, washed, and cut in slices, Jib. of lean ham or gammon, four bay- leaves, three blades of mace, three medium-sized onions, peeled and sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 1 pint of good Veal or mutton stock. Fit the lid of the stewpan on tightly, and let the contents stew slowly for three V eal—continued. hours. Take up the Veal, then strain the gravy, skim the fat off, and boil it quickly to a glaze. Glaze the frican- deau, and serve it hot with the remainder of the glaze in the same dish and sorrel sauce in a sauce-tureen. (6) Lard some slices of Veal that have been cut off the thick part of the fillet with fat bacon, dust them over with flour, put them in a Dutch oven, and brown in front of a clear fire. When nicely browned put the slices of Veal in a saucepan with lqt. of gravy, and boil them gently for half-an-hour. Put in a slice of lemon, some lemon pickle, 1 table-spoonful of anchovy essence, a little brown- ing and cayenne pepper, and continue boiling till the Veal is tender. Prepare some Veal quenelle forcemeat, mould it into little balls, and poach them. When cooked, put the slices of Veal on a hot dish and keep them hot. Skim the fat off the cooking-liquor of the Veal, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and boil quickly till reduced to a creamy consistency. Pour the sauce over the Veal, garnish it with the forcemeat balls, and serve. Fricandeau of Veal a la Farisienne.—Take 51b. or 61b. of the cushion of Veal, and divide it into two uniform- shaped pieces. Pare away all sinewy and ragged pieces, and beat with a cutlet-bat to flatten the meat and bruise the fibres. Lard both pieces freely and then put them, larded sides uppermost, into a flat stewpan, the bottom of which has been strewn with thinly-sliced vegetables. Lightly sprinkle with salt, and then pour in sufficient broth to reach the larding, and into that again pour 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira. Lay a piece of buttered paper over the fricandeau, and set the pan containing it on the fire until it boils quickly. In a quarter-of-an-hour or twenty minutes move the pan a little to the side, and, if the lid of the stewpan is flat, pile some hot ashes on it. Remove these to lift the lid occasionally to baste the fricandeau with the liquor in the stewpan. When this is done the lid may be again piled with ashes, and so on until the Veal is quite cooked through and tender. Then take out the meat, glaze it nicely, and leave it in a warm place to drain. Put 4 pint of stock, Veal broth, or gravy into the stewpan, boil it up, strain, skim off the fat, and then reduce it again by boiling until it forms half-glaze. Have ready a Veal-and-liam pain, nicely ornamented with glaze, and set this upon a dish. On the pain fasten a bread crouton, against which the two pieces of Veal are to be laid, the larded surfaces being uppermost. Have ready two pieces of sweetbread cut into shapes of shields and neatly studded with truffles. Set these against the bread crouton, between the pieces of Veal, and garnish with cooked truffles and small mushrooms. Mount the centre with an attelette of two truffles and a cocks’ comb (see Fig. 940). Instead of a Veal and-ham cheese, a pain-vert may be used, or a simple dish block. Fricandeau of Veal with Border of Sorrel. ^Trim a piece from the fillet or cushion of Veal, and lard it closely on one side with thin strips of bacon ; place two or three slices of bacon in a stewpan, with a few sliced carrots and onions For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, che., referred to, see under their special heads. 2 T 2