712 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. V eal—continued. pounded onion. Lay the cutlets on a deep dish, pour the mixture over them, and let them steep for an hour or two. When ready, brush the cutlets over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, then roll them in plenty of finely- grated breadcrumb. Put a large piece of lard or clarified fat in a flat stewpan, place it on the fire, and when boil- ing put in the cutlets, and fry them until a bright golden brown. Drain the cutlets when cooked, lay them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an orramental dish-paper, garnish them with fried parsley and cut lemons, and serve. Veal Cutlets a l’ltalienne.—(1) Cut some nice cutlets off a leg of Veal, and trim them to a pear shape, seasoning them on both sides with salt and pepper. Put them in a tin, baste them with a few table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, '■'•‘ver them with a sheet of paper, and bake them in a moderate oven until they are nicely cooked. Mince two or three shallots, put them in a stewpan with a little salad-oil, and fry them until they are nicely browned. Mince four mushrooms and a few leaves of parsley, put them in with the shallots, pour in equal quantities of sufficient white wine and dear stock to make the sauce, add a small bunch of sweet herbs tied together with a bay-leaf, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil the whole gently for twenty minutes or half-an-hour. At the end of that time, remove the bunch of herbs and bay- leaf, add to the sauce a small piece of butter that has been rolled in flour, and stir it at the edge of the fire until thickened. Drain the cutlets from the oil, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce in the centre, and serve. To garnish the dish, arrange taste- fully round a border of fried parsley. If the flavour of garlic is liked, the saucepan in which the sauce is made may be rubbed with it. (2) Cut the chops out of a neck of Veal, beat them with a cutlet-bat to flatten them, trim them, dust a little pepper and salt over them, brush with yolk of egg, dip them in breadcrumbs, then in melted butter, and again in bread- crumbs, and broil them over a slow fire, on both sides, till a nice brown. Dish, and serve with a brown Italian sauce. Veal Cutlets a la Lyonnaise.—Trim the cutlets, and dust them on both sides with pepper and salt. Put a lump of lard in a stewpan, and melt it; then put in the cutlets, and fry them over a brisk fire until done on both sides. Drain the fat out of the stewpan, pour over the cutlets J teacupful of rich broth, and boil it quickly till reduced to glaze; then turn the cutlets, pour in the same quantity of broth as before, and reduce that. When finished, arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish. Pour in the stewpan in which they were cooked h pint of brown sauce and 1 teacupful of Madeira, and boil it ; then add 1 teacup- ful of chopped gherkins, 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, and a pat of butter. When the butter has dis- solved, pour the sauce over the Veal, and serve it. Veal Cutlets ft la Maintenon.—Prepare the cutlets as usual, and broil them; but before they are quite done, take them out, drain them, and let them cool. Put some bacon cut in the shape of hearts on each side of the cutlets, wrap them round with paper dipped in oil, and broil both sides on a slow fire. Veal Cutlets a la Marechal.—(1) Remove the skin and fat from about 2oz. of mutton, chop the lean, put it in a mortar, pound it well, and then rub it through a fine wire sieve. Mix with it J table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and sufficient cream to bind it, not making it too liquid, and season it with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Trim to a neat shape four or five Veal cutlets, dip them in well-beaten egg, then roll them in bread- crumbs that have been seasoned moderately with salt and pepper. The cutlets should be well coated on all sides with the crumbs. Put some clarified fat into a deep frying-pan, and place it over the fire until a blue column of smoke rises; then put in the cutlets, and fry them for nearly ten minutes; turn them when browned on one side, and brown the other. When fried, drain the cutlets, spread over each a layer of the Veal mixture, lay them side by Veal—continued. side in a shallow tin dish, strew a small quantity of finely-chopped mushrooms over them, dust them very lightly with salt ami pepper, and bake them for ten minutes in a moderate oven. When cooked, arrange the cutlets on a hot dish over which has been spread an ornamental dish-paper, garnish them with neat sprigs of parsley, and serve. (2) Pare six Veal cutlets, season them with 1 table- spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and cook them in a saute -pan with 2oz. of butter for five minutes on each side. Moisten with h pint of Spanish sauce, add four sliced mushrooms, twelve small godiveau quenelles, and three chickens’ livers blanched and cut into pieces, and cook for five minutes longer. Serve on a hot dish, with six croutons of fried bread for garnish. Veal Cutlets a la Milanaise.—(1) Trim the cutlets neatly and to an equal size. Boil 2oz. of macaroni in salted water; when tender, drain it, and mix with it loz. of butter, 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and 1 teacupful of tomato sauce. Mix 1 |teacupful of finely-grated breadcrumb with 1 teacupful of grated Parmesan cheese, and season well with salt and pepper. Roll the cutlets in warmed butter and then in the breadcrumbs, and leave them for a few minutes ; then dip them in beaten egg and again in the mixture. Put a large lump of dripping or lard in a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire; when blue smoke rises, put in the cutlets, and fry them until well and equally browned. Move the macaroni away from the fire, and stir in the beaten yolk of an egg. Pile this in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the cutlets round it, garnish it with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Cut some small rather thick Veal cutlets, and trim them neatly. Mix with some finely-grated breadcrumb a third of their quantity of grated Parmesan cheese, and season with a moderate quantity of minced parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Dip the cutlets in beaten egg, roll them in the above mixture, leave them for a short time, then egg-and-breadcrumb them again. Boil the required quantity of macaroni in water, and when nearly tender, drain off the water and finish cooking it in milk ; then stir in with it loz. of butter, 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and J table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Toss the whole over the fire until well mixed. Fry the cutlets a light brown in butter. Pile the macaroni in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the cutlets round it, and serve. (3) Cut the Veal into cutlets about Jin. thick, beat them flat without breaking the bone, season them with salt and pepper, dip them in melted butter, then in finely-grated Parmesan cheese, and then coat them well with egg and breadcrumbs. Put a lump of fresh butter in a frying-pan, and when it is hot put in the cutlets and fry them, browning them nicely on both sides. When cooked, drain the cutlets, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish them with slices of lemon, and serve them with a sauce- boatful of tomato sauce, or, if preferred, maitre-d’hotel butter. Veal Cutlets a la Napolitaine.—Trim the cutlets to a nice shape, dip them in warmed butter, roll them in a mixture of finely-grated breadcrumb and Parmesan cheese, dust them over with salt and pepper, and leave them for an hour; then dip them in beaten egg and again in the crumbs and cheese. Boil the required quantity of macaroni, and when tender mix with it a lump of butter, some tomato sauce, and the beaten yolk of an egg, seasoning it to taste with salt and pepper. Put a lump of butter in a flat stewpan, and when boiling put in the cutlets and fry them until lightly browned. Pile the macaroni in the centre of a hot dish, strew grated Parmesan cheese over it, arrange the cutlets round, and serve. Veal Cutlets en Papillotes.—Pare nicely six Veal cutlets, put them in a saute-pan with loz. of butter, and season with 1 table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of white peeper. Add half a chopped onion, and brown slightly; add four finely-chopped mushrooms, and cook for eight minutes; then pour in a gill of Spanish sauce, and cook for four minutes longer. Take out the cutlets, drain