TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 764 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads Wheat—continued. merely on account of its highly nutritious character, but because of its richness in gluten, which is essential to the fermentation necessary to produce a light loaf. According to Sir Humphrey Davy, Wheat contains 19 per cent, of gluten, 77 per cent, of starch, and about 4 per cent, of soluble matter. Besides flour and starch, whole Wheat is sometimes used in cookery; so also is Wheat that has been ground into a coarse meal, as the following receipts will show: Cracked-wheat Mush (American).—Brush lightly over the inside of a flat-bottomed, bright iron saucepan with a paste-brush dipped in lard—it will require a very small quantity, but a little helps to prevent the Wheat burning —pour in 2qts. of water, and place it on the fire. When boiling, stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of large cracked Wheat and 1 teaspoonful of salt, stir it over the fire, and boil it for ten minutes; then move the saucepan to the side, and keep the contents simmering for three hours with the lid on. As it is not the Wheat itself that burns, but the flour mixed up with it, it would be better to wash it in two or three waters before boiling, as is done with rice. When sufficiently cooked, turn the mush into a bowl, and serve it with a jug of cream. Cracked-wheat Porridge (American).—Brush over the inside of a flat-bottomed saucepan with a little melted lard. Pour in 4 pints of water, boil it up, then stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of cracked Wheat and 1 teaspoonful of salt; stir the Wheat and boil it for a few minutes, then push the saucepan to the side of the fire, put the lid on, and keep the contents simmering for three hours. Turn the porridge (when cooked) into a bowl, and serve it with a jug of cream. The Wheat should be well washed before being cooked to rid it well of the flour, which is generally the cause of burning. Wheat-flour Batter Cakes.—(1) Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted corn-meal with 1 pint of flour; mix in smoothly two well-beaten eggs and a sufficient quantity of milk, with a small quantity of warm water in which J teaspoon - ful of tartaric acid has been dissolved, to make a mode- rately stiff batter. When quite smooth stir in briskly a heaped table-spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, but cease stirring the moment it begins to effervesce. Spread a sheet of fluttered paper over a baking-sheet, and drop the batter on it in equal quantities; bake them in a brisk oven, and serve while hot. A short space should be left between each cake when they are put on the baking- sheet, as they will spread and stick together. (2) Put into a vessel 4oz. of sifted Wheat-flour, Joz. of powdered sugar, and 1 drachm of compressed yeast. Break in four whole eggs, and mix well with the spatula for three minutes. Add j pint of cold milk, and beat well with the pastry-whisk for four minutes. Strain through a sieve into another vessel. Place on the stove a small griddle, greasing the surface lightly. Drop about 2oz. of the batter on to it, and bake for ten seconds; turn it with a cake-turner, and hake for ten seconds on the other side. See that the cakes are a light brown colour on both sides. Put them on a hot dish, keeping it warm on the corner of the range, and proceed to make twelve more with the remainder of the batter. Serve very hot with honey or maple sugar separately. Wheat-flour-and-Cornflour Crumpets.—Put lqt. of milk on the fire, warm it, put in 2 table-spoonfuls of yeast, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and sufficient Wheat-flour to make a stiff batter. Stir the batter till smooth and elastic, then set it in a warm place to rise. On the following morn- ing, stir in 1 teacupful of butter that has been warmed, and 1 teacupful of yellow corn-meal; divide the mixture into cakes, about 2in. in diameter and Jin. in thickness. Make a griddle hot, put the crumpets on it, and bake them for fifteen minutes. Butter the crumpets, put them on a hot dish, and serve while hot. Wheat-flour Gruel.—-(1) Mix 1 saltspoonful of salt in 2 tea- spoonfuls of flour, and stir it into a smooth thin paste with cold water; then mix in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water, turn the mixture into a saucepan, and stir it Wheat —continued. over the fire until cooked, which will take about five minutes. Strain the gruel, sweeten it to taste, and if too thick thin it with a small quantity of milk. The gruel may be flavoured with either lemon-juice or grated nutmeg, or a little piece of stick cinnamon may be boiled with it. (2) Pill a small basin with flour, press it down tightly, tie a cloth over, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil hard for six hours. At the end of that time, take the basin out of the water, remove the cloth, and leave the flour till the following day. Lift off the crust of flour that will have formed on the top, and use the re- mainder for making gruel. Put J pint of milk in a sauce- pan and boil it; mix 1 teacupful of the flour to a smoooth paste with a little water, pour the boiling milk gradually on to it, then return it to the, saucepan and boil for ten minutes, stirring all the time. Sweeten and flavour the gruel to taste, and serve it. The flour for making gruel may be baked instead of boiled, but the former way is the best. Wheat-meal Biscuits.—(1) Warm jib. of butter and work it well into ljlb. of Wheat-meal, add 2oz. of moist sugar, and stir in a sufficient quantity of warm water, in which J tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda lias been dissolved, to form a light paste. Boll the paste out thinly, and with a round tin cutter, about I Jin. in diameter, cut it into biscuits; dock them, lay them on a baking-sheet, and bake. Keep the biscuits in tins. (2) Rub 2oz. of butter into lib. of Wheat-meal and 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, add 2oz. of sugar, work this in, then add a, well-beaten egg and sufficient milk to form a stiff paste. Roll this out to about Jin. in thick- ness, cut it into plain biscuits, prick the tops, and bake in a moderate oven until done. Take them out, and use either hot or cold as desired. Wheat-meal Cakes.—(1) Rub Jib. of butter into fib. of Wheat-meal, then mix it to a smooth paste with some buttermilk, in which 1 teaspoonful of salt and J teaspoon- ful of bicarbonate of soda has been dissolved. Divide the dough into eight or nine pieces, which mould with floured hands into round cakes ; lay them on a baking-sheet, and bake from fifteen to twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Fig. 1040. Wheat-meal Cakes. When cooked (see Fig. 1040) split the cakes open and butter them thickly, put them on a hot dish, and serve. (2) Put ljlb. of Wheat-meal in a basin with 2oz. of butter and 1 good teaspoonful of salt, and rub together until well mixed; then stir in smoothly sufficient milk to make a stiff paste, and mould this into a thick round cake, about Jin. thick. Make a griddle hot, put on the cake, and place it over a clear fire. Move the cake con- stantly about, and when done on one side turn it. When cooked, split the cake open, butter it thickly, and, if liked, spread jam between it; cut it into wedge-shaped pieces, put them on a hot dish, and serve. Wheat-meal Gems. —Put 2J breakfast-cupfuls of fine granu- lated Wheat-meal into a basin with 1 saltspoonful of salt, and stir in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of milk and 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Beat the batter as long and as quickly as possible. Butter some iron gem pans (see A, Fig. 1041), make them very hot, and fill them quickly with the batter, giving it a brisk beating several times during the filling; put them in a hot oven, and bake. Turn them out (see B, Fig. 1041), and serve either hot or cold.