763 the encyclopedia of practical cookery. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Weights and Measures—continued. Measures of Weight are calculated from the Gramme, which is nearly equal to 151 British grains (I5'43235). See Avoirdupois. The 10th part of a gramme = 1 Decigramme. The 100th part of a gramme = 1 Centigramme. The 1000th part of a gramme = 1 Milligramme. 10 grammes = 1 Decagramme. 100 grammes = 1 Hectogramme. 1000 grammes = 1 Kilogramme. 10,000 gramnjes -= 1 Myriagramme. To render the foregoing tables of special value in the kitchen, it will be necessary to provide the cook with scales and weights, and a set of standard measures. Of the latter it may be generally stated that the more useful would be a gill, half-pint, pint, and quart. In dry measures, wooden pottle, gallon, and peck measures will answer most purposes, and in many instances will not be required so long as there is a pint or quart. Sets of scales of almost any pattern may be obtained from the scale-makers; the old-fashioned balance scale Fig. 1037. Balance Scales (Adams and Son). (see Fig. 1037) weighing as high as 141b., and being fitted with a movable pan, is very useful. Others are made on the beam principle, but are not so easy to work, and are more liable to get out of order. A very capital kind of scale that works on a spring, and indicates by a dial (see Fig. 1038), with a movable pan, is very useful indeed, occupying but little room, and requiring no adjustment of weights. These are strongly recommended for kitchen use, and can be purchased of most scale-makers. WEISS-BEER.—A pale white beer brewed princi- pally in North Germany; its alcoholic strength rarely exceeds 2 per cent. WELLINGTON GINGERBREAD.—See Ginger- bread. WELSH CHEESE CAKES.—See Cheese Cakes. WELSH MUTTON.—See Mutton. WELSH RABBIT or RAREBIT.—See Cheese. WESTMORELAND SOUP.—See Soups. WESTPHALIAN CHARLOTTE. — See Char- lottes. WESTPHALIAN HAMS.—See Hams. WHEAT (Fr. Froment; Ger. Weizen; Ital. Grano; Sp. Trigo).—A cereal grass, Triticum vulgare, produces a grain which we know by this name. There are many varieties, the most common being red Wheat, white Wheat, bald Wheat (see a, Fig. 1039), bearded Wheat (see b, Fig. 1039), summer Wheat, and winter Wheat, the grains resembling each other so closely that only an expert can tell one from the other. Lindley, in his “ Treasury of Botany,” expresses himself as follows : “ The native country and origin of Wheat has ever been a curious subject of speculation. We think, however, that M. Fabre’s experiments, detailed in the Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society, afford very strong presump- tive evidence that this cereal is derived from a wild grass of Southern Europe and Western Asia, known to the botanist as iEgilops. It is true that a specimen of this genus would at first sight appear to be very different from Wheat, but it is really not so on a minute exam- ination of its parts, and under cultivation it soon affords a very respectable grain; its green herbage, too, emits the peculiar smell on being bruised which belongs to Wheat, and we know from experiment it is subject to the same epiphytes or attacks of ‘ blight ’ as Wheat. That a plant very dissimilar from Wheat, in fact a .wild useless grass, should yet in cultivation become so changed as to afford a useful grain, is so far fortunate that we might expect, from this amount of adaptability to circum- stances, that it would be capable of easily affording a large variety of sorts. Such we know to be the case, and hence no plant is so easily adapted to variations of climate, soil, and management as Wheat.” Under the headings Flour and Starch, some im- portant information will be found concerning the manu- facture of Wheat into those two commodities. For the purposes of making bread, Wheat stands pre-eminent, not