THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 696 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. bacon, and cook them as for garnish, with six large chicken-forcemeat quenelles, six large crayfish, and six lambs’ sweetbreads, larded and glazed. Prepare a ragout with some collops of fat livers, chicken-forcemeat quenelles, cocks’ combs, onions, mushrooms, truffles, and Iqt. of financiere sauce. Put a rice socle on a hot dish, and place the loin on it; pour the prepared ragout round the dish, and garnish with the sweetbreads, &c. Cut the lambs’ sweetbreads in round slices, place them in two rows on the joint, and stick four silver attelettes garnished with trufiles and cocks’ combs between the two lines of sweet- breads (see Fig. 945). Serve the Veal with a sauceboatful of financiere sauce. Loin of Veal en Surprise.—-Bone a loin of Veal, flatten it out, trim off some of the fat round the kidney, season with pepper and salt, fold the flap under so as to cover the kidney and fillet, and tie the Veal round with string to keep it in shape. Wrap the Veal in a sheet of buttered paper, fix it on the spit, and roast in front of a clear fire. Ten minutes before the meat is taken up, remove the paper and brown it. Remove a square piece of the skin off the top of the loin, cut out some of the meat under- neath it, chop it fine, mix a little hot bechamel sauce with it, put the meat back in its original place, cover with the skin again, put the joint on a hot dish, and serve. The skin should be put back carefully, so as not to show where it had been touched. Macaronied Veal au Gratin.—Boil Jib. of macaroni until soft; mince very finely fib. of cooked Veal, and rub the contents of a small tin of tomatojs through a fine sieve When the macaroni is cooked, drain, and chop it well. Mix all the ingredients together with 3oz. of butter, loz. of grated Parmesan cheese, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of mace. When well incorporated, turn the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, level it evenly over the surface, strew grated breadcrumb over, put a few small pieces of butter on the top, and place it in a quick oven until nicely browned. When ready, serve hot in the same dish. Marble Veal.—(1) Cut a boiled and skinned pickled tongue into small pieces, put them in a mortar with lib. of butter and a little powdered mace, and work to a paste. Cut 41b. of cooked lean Veal into small pieces, and pound that in the mortar also. Put a layer of Veal in a large potting-jar, then some tongue, not spreading it out but leaving it in lumps, and continue with the alternate layers of ham and tongue till the pot is full; press it tightly down, and pour in some clarified butter. Tie a sheet of stout paper over the jar, and keep it in a cool place. When ready to serve the Veal, turn it out of the jar, cut it across in thin slices, put them on a folded napkin or dish-paper on a dish, and garnish with parsley. (2) Cut some small thin cutlets from a fillet of Veal, and have an equal quantity of thin rashers of bacon; mix together in small quantities, pepper, salt, cayenne, and beaten mace, and rub the slices of meat and bacon well with the seasoning. Line the bottom of a mould with ! slices of hard-boiled egg, fill it with alternate layers of the Veal and bacon, and pour in some thickly-reduced gravy. Tie the skin from the fillet over the top of the mould, stand it in a pan of boiling water, and stew in the oven for two hours. When cooked, leave the Veal until cold, then turn it out, and serve. (3) Chop the tenderest part of a boiled pickled tongue, put it in a mortar, and pound. Chop and pound about 4lb. of cold boiled Veal, and mix with it Jib. of butter and a little salt, pepper, and pounded mace. Stir a little cayenne and half the quantity of butter in with the tongue. Coat the inside of a deep pie-dish with butter, fill it with layers of the Veal, putting between each layer a few table-spoonfuls of the tongue, and packing them down tightly. When all the meat has been used, cover the dish, stand it in a tin containing a little water, and bake for an hour. When cooked, take the above mixture out of the oven, leave it till cold, then pour some melted butter over it, and keep it covered till ready to serve. Veal—continued. Marsden Cake.—Butter the inside of a large pie-dish, and lay round the sides of it slices of hard boiled eggs; then put in a layer of slices of cold Veal, chopped ham, and a sprinkling of chopped mixed pickles. Season well with salt and pepper, and pour a rich Veal gravy over. Repeat these layers until the dish is full, and take care that the gravy covers the Veal. Bake for twenty minutes, let it get cold, and it will turn out in a strong jelly. A little cold Veal stuffing broken up and distributed over the layers of meat improves the flavour. The gravy should be well seasoned and flavoured, and made sufficiently strong to form a stiff jelly. Should there be any doubt as to the quality of the gravy, a little isinglass should be dissolved in it so as to ensure its jellying well when cold. Garnish with parsley. Mayonnaise of Tendons of Veal.—Cut some tendons into small equal-sized pieces, blanch them for a few minutes in boiling water, then drain and put them in a saucepan; cover tlie tendons with stock, and boil them till cooked. Strain the cooking-liquor of the tendons into another saucepan, and boil it till reduced to a creamy thickness; then put in the pieces of meat, and leave till cold. Boil some onions and gherkins in stock, and when cooked drain and leave them till cold. Put the pieces of meat on a cold dish, garnish round with the onions, cover all with mayonnaise sauce, and serve. Melton Veal.—Chop some cold roasted or boiled Veal very line, and add a little lemon-juice, salt, and pepper to season it; add also 3 table-spoonfuls of bread- or cracker- crumbs, and moisten the whole with a little good soup stock or hot water. Take some ham, about one third of the bulk of the Veal, and chop it also very fine; add a little cayenne and dry mustard to season it, 1 table- spoonful of bread- or cracker-crumbs, and sufficient hot stock or water to moisten. Arrange some slices of hard-boiled egg round a well-greased mould, and put in the two mixtures in very irregular quantities to give it a mottled appearance, squeezing it in tightly. Put the mould over a saucepan of boiling water, and let it steam Fig. 946. Melton Veal. for forty five minutes. When done, put it in a cool place, and let it get quite cold; turn it out of the mould, cut it into slices, garnish with parsley (see Fig. 946), and serve. Minced Veal.—(1) Trim off the bones and skin from some cold Veal, either loin or fillet. Put the bones and trimmings of the Veal in a saucepan with one sliced onion, a small quantity of grated lemon-peel, a bunch of sweet herbs, and pepper and salt ; pour in a little over 1 pint of water, and keep it boiling gently for an-hour-and-ten minutes. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, skim it well, put in loz. of butter that has been worked with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire till boiling. Chop the Veal finely, and put it in with the gravy; stir it over the fire till thoroughly hot, then pour in a little more than 1 teacupful of cream or milk, and 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Move the sauce pan to the side of the fire. Fry some thin rashers of bacon, and tie them into little rolls. Put some sippets of toast on a hot dish, pour the mince over them, garnish with the rolls of bacon and some slices of lemon, and serve. (2) Finely mince any remains of cold cooked Veal, and the more underdone the better. For lib. of the Veal allow 1 teacupful each of milk, stock, and breadcrumbs, loz. of butter, and the yellow rind of one lemon. Grate the lemon-peel, and mix it with the minced meat; season it with pepper, salt, and a small quantity of grated