890 DESCRIPTIVE INDEX TO SPECIAL PLATES. Centre Dish—Le Coq Gallant (A votre Service). Plaster cock, with real feathers, marshal’s hat, pince- nez glasses, rapier, belt with motto and pendant, spurs, &c. It stands on a cold chicben-and-ham pie, garnished with sliced eggs, surrounded with poulardes (cold roasted), ornamented with attelettes of jelly, and surmounted by truffle, cock’s-comb, and silver cock’s head. Between the poulardes are lark patties, garnished. See Attelettes Eggs, Fowls, Cocks’-combs, Truffles, Ac. Artistic Centre-piece (Birds). The stand is moulded in fat on a plaster base. The top stage is supported by swans and carries a wreath of larks and snipe, the latter with beaks pointing upwards, and turned truffles threaded upon them. The second stage, or base, consists of swans bearing dishes of truffles on their wings, and a wreath of quails and woodcocks quaintly trussed, with mushroom-tops threaded on their beaks. Carnations and other flowers complete the design. French Chef d’CEuvre.—Artistic Centre-piece for Supper-table. . Neptune, dolphins, and horses moulded in tinted fat. Car, either natural shell or of fat. Falling water in tinted fat on plaster foundation. Coral in coloured fat. Lobster, crayfish, and salmon forcemeat fritters laid on brown rocks made of fat. Oysters on half shells. Shells and moss on plaster stand. . Artistic Centre-pieces. In this Plate are given some very beautiful designs for a sultane dessert etagere and croquenbouche of meringues, which possess the merit of novelty and elegance. The modes of preparing the sultane and croquenbouche are described in the text. The etagere is merely a series of dishes arranged in stages and dressed with fruit. A Few Favourite Cheeses. This Plate illustrates the great variety in character and colour of the many cheeses known in this country. For further particulars, see Cheese. Artistic Cold Pieces. The garnishing of cold meats or fish is one of the fine arts of the cook’s education. The specimens of decora- tion shown in this Plate are taken from actual dishes, and may be pronounced marvels of artistic excellence. Collared and Spiced Meats. The various samples shown in this Plate are all fully described under their various headings. Fancy Confectionery. Artistic Confectionery (Nos. 1 and 2). The terms “ artistic ” and “ fancy ” confectionery may, for the explanation of these Plates, be considered synonymous. The specimens depicted are a few of many that the confectioners’ ingenuity and artistic taste have prepared for the satisfaction of the public. Artistic Stands of Crystallised Fruits and Flowers. This Plate shows the beautiful effects that can be obtained by their artistic arrangement. Violets, primroses, orange-flowers, and carnations take foremost rank amongst crystallisable and edible flowers. See Crystallising. Artistic Dessert Dishes. In the service of fruit many exquisite arrangements and designs are available. The modes delineated in this Plate are very elegant and artistic. The large central basket can be constructed from bits of wood, riveted together and gilt. Walnuts, halved, peeled, and returned to their shells and tied together with coloured ribbons are effective; and pines, melons, and other fruit, sliced and tied together with broad ribbon, are both serviceable and ornamental. See Fruit. A Dinner in Pompadour Style. This arrangement of a dinner-table is named after the Marchioness de Pompadour, whose exquisite taste and fancy are famous throughout the world. The outlines on the table are traced with trails of Pompadour roses stitched on to the cloth that covers it, and a looped muslin and lace over-skirt falls over a lace or embroidered under-skirt with graceful effect. The large central lamp and corner candelabra are covered by rose-coloured shades. Artistic Arrangement for Dinner-table. It is almost impossible, to describe the wonderful beauty of this arrangement, although the details of con- struction are sufficiently simple—real water in the lake and fountain, and living gold fish, with miniature swans and gondolas, surrounded by cork banks in imitation of rockery, and ferns, lighted up here and there with glow- worm lamps. The dripping fountain of tinted waters fall into the large basin containing mermaids with entwined tails, supporting with one hand the upper basin of the fountain, and the other holding shells of bon-bons temptingly toward the guests. See Table-Decoration. Arrangement for a Dinner-table. This Plate is strictly original, in that it represents a high-class dinner minus the guests, the service and arrangements being plainly demonstrated and every practical detail shown. See Table-Service. Artistic Sweet Entremets. In this Plate are given some unique designs for those dishes so very dear to ladies of all nationalities and of all classes. Varieties of sweet entremets are legion, and include dishes made up of fruits stewed or preserved in sugar, compotes, cakes, gateaux, creams, custards, jellies, pies, tarts, and numerous other similar preparations. Reference should be made to these headings. Preserved Fish. Dried Fish. Some familiar examples are given in these two Plates, which will enable the purchaser to judge of quality as well as kind. For further particulars, see special headings. Artistic Modes of Serving Fish. The most observable feature of this Plate is the use of the highly ornamental French hot-water bowl under the flat silver dish upon which the fish rests. The garnishes are in each case noteworthy as being particu- larly suited to the fish they decorate. Instructions for preparing these dishes will be found in the text under Fish, and under their special headings. Artistic Fish Garnishes. For the garnishing of fish dishes gold medals have been freely awarded at cookery competitions. Some select examples are shown in this Plate.