TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 699 For deta.ls respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. cooked, remove it from the vegetables and glaze it also; place it in the centre of a hot dish, with the bacon at each end, pour a puree of celery round the whole, and serve while very hot. Noix of Veal en Ballotines.—Lard a noix (cushion) of Veal with strips of bacon that have been well seasoned with mixed spices, finely-chopped parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, shallot, salt, and pepper. Melt about ilb. of butter in a stewpan, dredge the Veal over with salt and pepper, put it in, and stew over a slow fire. In tliree-quarters-of-an-hour take the Veal out of the pan and put it on a dish. Mix in with the butter 4 table-spoonfuls of grated bacon, 1 teacupful of pure olive oil, and a scant table-spoonful of chopped shallots. Fry these ingredients for a few minutes, then put in ten or twelve chopped champignons, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and season with pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. When quite cooked, pour the mixture over the Veal and leave it until cold. After- wards cover the meat with thin slices of bacon, and wrap it with all its seasoning in a sheet of paper; fold it up securely, seeing that the seasoning cannot escape, and bind it round with tape. Place it on a gridiron, and cook over a slow fire for an hour, turning it occasionally. Take care not to let the paper burn. When cooked, place the meat on a hot dish, and serve. Noix of Veal a la Jardiniere.—Beat and trim a noix of Veal, and lard it with thin strips of fat bacon ‘2in. long. Put some slices of bacon and two sliced onions in a stew- pan with two bay-leaves and a few sprigs of parsley, then add the noix, pour over it 1 pint of white stock, cover with the lid, and put it in a moderate oven for three hours. Baste the Veal occasionally with its own liquor; if the moisture becomes absorbed, pour in a little more broth or some water. Peel eighteen young onions, the same of young turnips, and the same of young carrots ; the carrots and turnips should be cut to the shape of small p>ears. Blanch the vegetables; put loz. of butter in a sautd-pan with 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar, melt it, then put in the onions ; cover them with stock, and stew gently until tender. Cook the carrots and turnips in the same way, only in separate pans. The cooking-stock of the vegetables should be reduced to a thin glaze by the time they are cooked. Peel and boil about 4lb. of potatoes, drain them when soft, mash them with a little milk or butter, press them into a border mould, and stand it in a bain-marie. Put the glaze from the vegetables into a saucepan with lqt. of brown sauce and about 1 breakfast cupful of the gravy from the Veal, first freeing it from fat. Boil the sauce until it becomes reduced to a rather thick demi-glaze, skimming it well. When cooked, glaze the noix and brown it slightly under the salamander. Turn the border of potatoes on to a hot dish, arrange the glazed vege- tables on the border, and put the noix in the centre. Pour the sauce over the vegetables, and serve. Noix of Veal a la Palestine.—Procure the noix or nut from a leg of Veal, beat it well, trim it, and lard with thin strips of fat bacon 2in. long. Line the bottom of a stewpan with slices of bacon and two sliced onions, and put in two bay-leaves, two or three sprigs of thyme and parsley, tied together, and then the Veal; pour in 1 pint of white broth, place the lid on the stewpan, and put it in a moderate oven for three hours. Baste the meat occasionally with some of its own cooking-liquor; if it becomes too dry, a little water or more broth may be poured in. Peel 21b. of Jerusalem artichokes, wash them well, and trim to a pear shape; put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter about loz. in weight, a small lump of salt, water to cover, and boil until tender. Peel and boil 31b. of potatoes, and when soft drain them, mash them with a little milk or butter, and pack them into a border mould, standing it in a bain-marie to keep hot. Boil and drain well about lib. of Brussels sprouts. Prepare the following sauce: Put about six thinly-sliced artichokes that have been peeled and washed into a stew- pan with 4oz. of butter, a bay-leaf, a few sprigs of parsley tied together, 1 table-spoonful of chopped lean ham, J table-spoonful of clear broth, and \ teaspoonful of sugar. Boil the sauce gently until the artichokes are V eal—continued. soft, then pour in 1 pint of .bechamel sauce, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil for twenty minutes longer; at the end of that time pass it through a fine hair sieve. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 3 table- spoonfuls of cream, pour them into the sauce, and stir it at the side of the fire till very hot, but do not let it boil again. When cooked, glaze the Veal and brown it slightly under a salamander or in the oven. Turn the border of potatoes on to a hot dish, scoop out a little hollow in the thickest part of each artichoke, and plant the Brussels sprouts in them ; then place the artichokes, the thinnest end downwards, in the potato border. Put the Veal in the centre of the dish, pour the sauce over the potatoes, and serve. Noix of Veal a la Potagere.—Beat the noix well, trim it to a nice shape, and lard with thin fillets of fat bacon. Line a flat stewpan with slices of bacon and two or three sliced onions; put in the noix with a small bunch of thyme and parsley and two bay-leaves, moisten with 1 pint of white broth, put the lid on the stewpan, and place it in a moderate oven. Cook the Veal for three hours, basting it occasionally with the broth in the pan; if all the moisture becomes absorbed, a small quantity of water should be poured in. Meanwhile boil and mash sufficient potatoes to make a border on a hot dish ; boil also a white cauliflower, and when cooked separate the branches and lay them on the top of the potato border. Glaze the noix and brown it lightly under a salamander; then put it in the hollow of the border (see Fig. 948), and keep it hot. Strain and free the cooking-liquor of the noix from all fat, pour it into a small stewpan with H pints of white sauce, and boil it quickly for ten minutes; then mix in 2 table spoonfuls of thick cream and 1 tea- spoonful of sugar, boil it up again, then pour it over the cauliflower and potatoes, and serve at once. Noix of Veal a la Prince.—Prepare the noix, and lard it with thin fillets of fat bacon; put it in a flat stewpan with a few slices of bacon, two sliced onions, two or three bay-leaves, and a few sprigs of parsley; moisten with 1 pint of white broth, put the lid on the stewpan, put it into a moderate oven, and leave for three hours, basting the noix occasionally with the liquor in the pan. If the moisture dries, add a little more broth or water. Disgorge eight or ten lamb’s sweetbreads in warm water, then blanch them, and refresh them in cold water. Lard the sweetbreads with thin strips of bacon, put them in a stewpan that has been lined with slices of bacon, two sliced onions, a few sprigs of thyme and parsley, and two bay-leaves; moisten to height with broth, place the lid on the stewpan, put it in the oven, and cook the sweet- breads for about half-an-hour. Peel and warm eight or ten plover’s eggs in white broth. Prepare a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, and arrange the sweet- breads and eggs alternately on it. Glaze the noix of Veal, and place it in the centre. Skim off all the fat, and strain the cooking-liquor of the Veal and sweetbreads into a stewpan; mix with it lqt. of brown sauce and 1 pint of broth, place it over a brisk fire, stir it, and boil quickly until reduced to the consistency of cream. Take the sauce oft' the fire, mix with it 2oz. of butter and 1 teaspoonful of sugar, stir the sauce until the butter has