726 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Vegetables—continued. To produce these slices with certainty and rapidity a very useful instrument has been invented, known as Marshall’s Universal Sheer (see Fig. 980). In almost every kitchen of any size or importance, sets of Yegetable-cutters, either fancy or plain, fitted in con- Fig. 986. Colander for Draining Vegetables. venient boxes (see Fig. 981), are to be seen for the cook’s use; but in some of the larger establishments, where appearances are of first importance, a machine is used which stamps slices of Vegetables into exceedingly pretty patterns (see Fig. 982). Fig. 987. Vegetable-presser. Vegetables cut for julienne soup (a la Julienne) (see Fig. 983) may be cut with an ordinary knife, but the artistic cook prefers to use a tool specially made for the purpose (see Fig. 984), by means of which a large quantity can be cut up much more regularly, and with greater rapidity. The ingenuity of man seems to have ex- tended itself in the direction of inventing apparatus for operating upon Vegetables; but the very highest results may be obtained by the use of those already described. A very useful instrument for lifting out Vegetables, especially for garnishing, that have been cooked in a stock, is a sort of ladle, made as it were of basket wire at the end of a longish handle (see Fig. 985); and when it is desirable to press out water from such Vegetables as cabbage, spinach, &c., a colander (see Fig. 986) is used, into which the Vege- tables are put to be drained, and they can then be pressed almost dry by means of a flat disc of wood, with a handle let into its ripper surface (see Fig. 987), which is called a Vegetable-presser. For mashing cooked Vegetables such as po- tatoes, turnips, or parsnips, a very use- ful instrument is the Vegetable-masher (see Fig. 988), which is constructed something like a wheel with narrow flat spokes and tire, the axle being the handle. The action is easily understood. For mincing Vegetables or Fig. 988. Vegetable-masher (A. Lyon). V egetables—continued. cutting them up fine for soup, or slicing French beans and scarlet runners, an instrument has been specially constructed (see Fig. 989). By turning a handle and supplying the vegetables they are turned out ready for use with extraordinary ra- pidity, effecting a saving of time that is most im- portant in a large estab- lishment. An instrument for shelling peas (see Fig. 990) is also of incalculable value; there are two or three varieties of the same principle, but the most satisfactory results on a large scale have been ob- tained from the kind shown in the illustration. This article would not be complete without a table of the months in which certain Vegetables are seasonable. Although under ordinary circumstances the following list may be considered reliable, it must be remembered that many Vegetables are obtainable, owing to systems of forcing and preserving in tins, bottles, or dried, at times Fig. 989. Cutter for French Beans, &c. (A. Lyon). Fig. 990. Pea-sheller (A. Lyon). when they would otherwise be considered out of season. Vegetables preserved by any of the foregoing methods might almost be considered in season throughout the year, if it were not for the incontrovertible fact that they lack something of their original quality. Artichokes, Jerusalem.—Best in the early part of the year. Artichokes, Globe.—Best in the autumn. Asparagus.—May to July. Beans, all kinds.—-April to August. Beetroot.—November to March. Broccoli.—October to April. Brussels sprouts.—October to March. Cabbage.—Of one kind or another, all the year round. Cardoons.—October to March. Carrots.—Old, all the year round. New, April and May. Cauliflowers.—March to October. Celery.—During the winter months. Chervil.—During the greater part of the year. Colewort.—Beginning of the year. Corn salad.—Midsummer months. Cresses.—One kind or another, throughout the year Cucumbers.—Best from April to August. Endive.—Best part of the year. Garlic.—All the year round. Fresh, beginning of the year. Herbs.—Fresh, in the spring. Dried, all the year. Leeks.—August to February.