THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 694 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. wineglassful of sherry and the strained juice of half a lemon with the sauce, boil it up again, then pour it in the centre of the dish, and serve. (2) Take some nice Veal cutlets, trim them into shape, cut off all skin and fat, and then lard them with fat bacon or ham. Put some hot butter or dripping in a baking-pan, lay the cutlets in a circle towards the edge of the pan, and put in the centre some chopped carrot and turnip, a small onion sliced, and a small sprig of thyme, marjoram, and parsley, tied in a bay-leaf ; add a seasoning of pepper and salt, pour in some stock, but not sufficient to cover the cutlets, lay a piece of buttered paper over the pan to prevent the meat from browning, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Lay the cutlets round some cut vegetables on a hot dish, pour over them some stock boiled to a glaze, and serve hot. (3) Cut five or six chops lin. thick off' a loin of Veal or the best end of the neck. Trim off' all bone and fat from the centre piece of lean. Put the bones and trimmings over the lire with 1 carrot scraped and washed, 1 turnip peeled and washed, 1 onion peeled, and a mushroom nicely trimmed and peeled ; put into the saucepan also two or three sprigs of parsley, a sprig each of thyme and marjoram, a bay- leaf, a couple of cloves, a grain or two of allspice, l saltspoon- ful of flour of mustard, nearly \ saltspoonful of white pepper, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, loz. of lean ham nicely trimmed, and lqt. of water, and let it boil quickly for three hours, skimming the scum off as it rises. Strain it then, and let it get cold. Lard one side of the pieces of Veal thickly with fat bacon. Rub the bottom of a stewpan with garlic, put into it I lb. of butter, set it over the fire, and when quite hot lay the Veal in, the larded side upwards, and let it brown a little. Skim the fat from the cold gravy, and pour over gravy to height without covering the larding; let it simmer gently for two hours, skimming and basting eveiy ten minutes. Take the Veal out, skim the fat from the gravy, put in 1 pint of young fresh- shelled peas and 1 teaspoonful of powdered white sugar, let them boil quickly (without putting the lid on the stewpan) for ten minutes, put the Veal in again, and simmer, still keejdng the lid off the stewpan, till the peas are tender. Take out the Veal, pour out the peas and gravy on a hot dish, lay the grenadins of Veal, larding upwards, in the centre, and serve hot. (4) Cut eight or nine collops Jin. thick from a cushion of Veal, and trim them to an oblong shape about the size of a mutton cutlet. Wet the collops, beat them lightly with the back of a knife, and lard in the centre with fillets of bacon. Melt a little lard in a flat stewpan, then cover the bottom with sliced onions, on which arrange the collops, side by side. Cover the collops with broth, stand the stewpan on the fire, and boil quickly till the moisture has reduced one-third. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, sprinkle some salt over the Veal, and cover with a sheet of buttered paper. Put the lid on the stewpan with some hot ashes on it, and cook the Veal for three-quarters-of-an-hour, basting it occasionally with its cooking-liquor. Cut some carrots and turnips into small balls with a vegetable-cutter, scoop some cucumbers out with a vegetable-spoon, and cut some beans and French beans into small squares. Blanch and cook all the vegetables separately. Put the vegetables together in a stewpan with a little butter, and toss them over a quick fire for a few minutes, seasoning with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and 1 pinch of sugar. Mix a little thick bechamel sauce with them. When cooked, arrange the grenadins in a circle on a hot dish, pile the vegetables in the centre, and serve. Grenadins of Veal a l’Africaine.—Prepare as for Grenadins of Veal with Puree of Green Peas, serving very hot with three small stuffed egg-plant fruit, and eighteen medium-sized cooked gumbos for garnish in place of the peas. Grenadins of Veal a la Chipolata.—The same as for Grenadins of Veal with Puree of Green Peas, only adding 1 pint of hot chipolata garnishing instead of the peas. V eal—continued. Grenadins of Veal a la Sevigne.—Prepared as for Grenadins of Veal with Puree of Green Peas, only decorating the dish with six honchoes Sevigne, made by preparing six small bouclnies, and filling them with very finely-chopped spinach, acidulated slightly with lemon- juice. Lay the covers on, and serve very hot without any other garnishing. Grenadins of Veal with Puree of Green Peas.—Cut into six pieces 2lb. of lean Veal taken from the leg, remove the sinews, and lard the Veal on one side, using a rather coarse needle for the purpose. Lay the pieces in a saute-pan with one carrot, one onion, and some scraps of pork, and let them brown together for six minutes. Season with 1 table-spoonful of salt, and moisten with 1 gill of white broth. Put the pan in the oven, covering it with a piece of buttered paper; after thirty minutes, or when the contents are of a good colour, remove it, and serve with | pint of hot puibe of peas, spread on a dish, the grenadins on top, and the gravy, strained, poured over all. Grenadins of Veal with Tomato Sauce.—Cut about eight slices transversely off. a cushion of Veal; they should be about 3Jin. long, 4in. wide, and a little more than Jin. thick; sprinkle a little water over them, and beat them lightly with a chopper. Trim the pieces of meat to an oblong shape, lard them all on the same side with fillets of bacon, and season with salt and pepper. Finely chop a carrot and onion, put them in a stewpan, then add the pieces of Veal, moistening them with Veal broth off which the fat has not been skimmed. Boil the broth till reduced to glaze, then pour in a little more, and boil it till the meat is cooked and nicely glazed. Drain the grenadins, and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish. Strain the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve, skim off all the fat, pour it over the grenadins, and serve with a sauce- boatful of tomato sauce. Haricot of Veal.—(1) Take 41b. or 5lb. of the best end of a neck of Veal, cut or chop the bones short, but do not cut up the Veal; put it into a stewpan, barely cover with brown gravy, and let it simmer. Stew in some good stock in another saucepan six small cucumbers, peeled and sliced, two cabbage lettuces well washed and cut in quarters, and 1 pint of green peas; when these are cooked and the Veal nearly done, put them into the stewpan with the Veal, and let all simmer together for ten minutes. Lay the Veal on a hot dish, arrange the eight pieces of lettuce and a few forcemeat balls round it, pour the gravy and the rest of the vegetables over, and serve hot. (2) Chop off the ends of the bones of a piece of neck of Veal, put the Veal in a saucepan with sufficient brown gravy to cover, ami stew until nearly cooked. Stew separately in broth 1 pint of green peas, four peeled and sliced cucumbers, two small lettuces in quarters, and 1 breakfast- cupful each of carrots and turnips cut into small cubes. Add these to the Veal, cook for ten minutes longer, place the Veal in the centre of a dish, pour the vegetables and gravy round, and serve. Hashed Veal.—(1) Remains of cold Veal can be used, and it is better if rather underdone. Cut the meat into thin slices, trimming off' all the skin and gristle; sliie a couple of onions and shallots, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, dredge them lightly with flour, and toss about over the fire until beginning to brown. Pour in about | pint of clear Veal broth, add a bunch of sweet herbs, and boil gently for ten or fifteen minutes. Put the slices of Veal in a clean stewpan, strain the gravy over them, put in 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, the grated peel of half a small lemon, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg ; season with salt and pepper to taste. Let the hash simmer for five minutes close to the fire. Turn the hash on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter, and serve. (2) Trim off the skin and fat from some cold roast Veal, and mince the lean finely. Chop a shallot, put it in a stewpan with plenty of butter, and fry it till lightly coloured; then put in the minced meat with a little chopped parsley, and dredge over some flour, salt, pepper.