2 M Descriptive. Index to Special Plates. Frontispiece. Portrait of the Editor, under whose direction the immense mass of practical information collected for this Encyclopaedia has been critically analysed and assorted. In this great task he has been assisted by a staff of chefs and others representing the highest culinary talent in the world. The result speaks for itself. The Old Masters. Amongst the many names of famous cooks, of whom record has been handed down from generation to genera- tion, there are none who have shown more prominently in their times than those whose portraits are presented in this Plate. Careme had ever been acknowledged to be the father of artistic cookery. Ude, as a friend of Brillat- Savarin, assisted in the development of epicureanism. Prancatelli excelled in preparing sweet entremets for his Royal patron the Queen, whom he served till the time of his death. Soyer made himself famous during the Irish famine and the Crimean war, concluding his career as chef to the Reform Club; and Gunter, of Oxford Street, is a household word. Modern Chefs, Cooks, and Confectioners. Following closely in the paths laid down for them by their accomplished predecessors are the works of such men as are portrayed in this Plate; their individual successes are duly recorded on the title page. The Editor would willingly have added the portraits of many others who have worked heartily with him in the pro- duction of the Encyclopaedia, but unfortunately modesty prevailed over a desire for public fame. Kitchen for an Hotel. This Plate is introduced for the purpose of showing the extensive and elaborate fittings required to supply the demands of a large hotel. Soups and sauces only are prepared in this chamber, it being merely an adjunct to others of much larger capacity. It is drawn from one of the kitchens in Anderton’s Hotel, London. Attelettes (Sweet and Savoury). In this Plate is shown a variety of elaborate modes of garnishing the silver (or plated) ornamental skewers used in the decoration of special dishes. See Attelettes. A Modern Ball Buffet. This arrangement is remarkable for the convenience it affords the guests of obtaining refreshments at any time during the ball, in lieu of a formal supper. The foods are so prepared as to offer the greatest variety combined with the simplest method of service, wines, dishes, &c.,. being replenished by attendants, whose movements are almost entirely concealed by the luxuriant foliage. For further particulars, see Ball Suppers and Refreshments. VOL. II. Artistic Garnishes for Birds. The descriptive text at the foot of each drawing in this Plate proclaims them all to be specimens of gar- nishing only to be accomplished by masterly cooks. Instructions for their preparation will be found under their special headings. Bottles and Flasks for Liqueurs and Spirits. Wine Bottles and Flasks. These two Plates demonstrate the remarkable variety shown in the manufacture of bottles for special purposes. The majority of those illustrated are familiar to many, and will be recognised as old acquaintances; to others they may be regarded as indicators of the genuine article. Fancy Loaves and Bolls. Many varieties of the fancy bread, British and foreign, that are met with in this country are here shown. Directions for their manufacture will be found under Bread. Bride Cakes. Chief amongst the names of famous bride-cake decorators stands that of our talented contributor, Mr. C. Norwak; and of his wonderful productions this Plate affords some evidence. The delicate and fairy-like net- work and tracery show a master hand in the art of sugar-piping; and that, combined with the exquisite arrangement of artificial flowers, produces a magnificent effect. See Bride Cakes, Sugar-piping, &c. Buffet or Sideboard Displayed as for a Cold Luncheon or Banquet. The days of the old baronial-hall banquets are fast fading away under the glamour of more modern service; but it would be difficult to find amongst modern “ improvements ” anything to surpass the solid grandeur of the display when a real boar’s head graced the side- board at a noble feast. The butler and chief cook would contribute their united abilities to the arrangement of the buffet, so as to make it a grand display, whilst the table was comparatively bare. The introduction of more modern services has led to combinations that have added to the table without detracting much from the buffet. Ornamental Butter-work. This Plate is a reproduction from the original specimen of butter-work upon glass, executed by C. Norwak, and for which he was awarded a handsome prize. Picnic Cakes. Amongst the immense variety of cakes suitable for special purposes those depicted on this Plate are unique. They represent Lawn Tennis, Coaching, Cricket, Boating, Football, and Polo. These ornaments are easily made in sugar and laid on a white or tinted sugar-icing. See Cakes and Sugar-moulding.