725 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Vegetables—continued. gence, will be understood from tbe following instruc- tions. In the first place the cook should see that the Vege- tables are quite fresh, for, in spite of anything that may be said to the contrary, all Vegetables, whether roots, leaves, or any other kind, begin to lose bulk and flavour as soon as they are removed from the ground. Those that suffer the least in this respect are roots and tubers, such as carrots and potatoes; and those which suffer most are leaves, stalks, and shoots, such as asparagus, sea-kale, cabbages, and the like. To clean Vegetables, they should be first soaked for a time in salted water—cabbages and cauliflowers being turned upside-down. In this way the flavour of the Vegetables improves, and all insect life is removed. Next, grit and dirt must be thoroughly washed out, and for this purpose a wire sieve or basket (see Fig. 970) should be used, which may be dipped again and again into a tub of water, the Vegetables in it being shaken thoroughly and rinsed. Root Vegetables offer the artistic cook a very extensive scope for the exercise of skill and ingenuity, as Fig. 981. Vegetable-cutters (A. B. Marshall). may be seen in the numerous shapes and designs into which these Vegetables can be cut. Flowers are often cleverly imitated, and rounds, olives, and lozenge-sliapes of every variety are to be seen in artistically pre- pared soups and garnishes. These require special tools for their production, of which the f blowing may be considered useful examples. Vegetables—continued. For peeling, some excellent machines have been in- vented. One of the best (see Fig. 971) acts upon a system of springs. The Vegetable is stuck upon a fork communicating with a handle, the knife being pressed Fig. 982. Fancv Pattern Stamp (A. B. Marshall). gently into a convenient position for trimming off the peel as the handle is rotated. Knives fitted with adjust- able guards are sometimes used for paring roots, but, as they require a conside-able amount of practise to use them successfully, they are not kitchen favourites. Fig. 983. Vegetables for Julienne. Vegetables are cut into fancy shapes and designs by the use of various instruments called scoops (see Fig. 972), which produce rounds, ovals, and fluted shapes (see Fig. 973). Spirals or cui’ls of Vegetables are much used for garnishing, and these are pro- duced by means of various in- struments (shown in Fig. 974), which fit into one handle. Fig. 984. Julienne-cutter A variety of this mode of (A. B. Marshall). cutting Vegetables is shown in Crulls (see Fig. 975).. Vege- tables can be “ turned,” as it is called, by a dexterous action of the fingers, and the use of a small sharp knife. The mode of proceeding is shown by Fig. 976. This method of preparing Vegetables is of infinite use to the artistic cook for all kinds of dishes in which uniformity of shape and size is a desideratum. From slices of Vegetables any number of patterns can be cut out (see Fig. 977) by means of cutters or stamps, Fig. 985. Vegetable-ladle (A. B. Marshall). which may either be fitted with handles (see Fig. 978), or by simple tubes (see Fig. 979). Either of these styles answers equally well, it being, however, of the first im- portance that the slices shall be of a uniform thickness.