THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. G97 Veal—continued. nutmeg, put the meat into a saucepan, pour the milk and stock over it, and stir over the fire until boiling. Turn the mixture on to a dish, spread it out, strew the breadcrumbs on the top, and put the butter broken into small pieces on them. Brown the top under a salamander or in a brisk oven, and serve. (3) Cut up some cold Veal very fine, season it with a very small quantity of finely-chopped lemon-peel, a very little grated nutmeg, and salt to taste. Put a few table-spoon- fuls of water, milk, or weak stock over the fire, and thicken with flour and butter; when the thickening has boiled for ten minutes, add to it the seasoned Veai, and let it barely simmer till hot; then pour it on to a hot dish, and serve garnished with rolls of toasted thin bacon round it, and a poached egg or two laid on top. (4) Finely mince some white flesh of cold roast Veal. Chop a shallot, put it in a stewpan with a good sized lump of butter, and fry until lightly browned; dredge it with flour, and moisten with a small quantity of clear white stock. Stir the sauce until boiling, then put in the mince with 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley; season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and keep it at the side of the fire. When the meat is thoroughly hot, stir in the yolk of an egg that has been beaten up with the juice of half a lemon and strained. Turn the mince on to a hot dish, lay four poached eggs on the top, garnish round with sippets of toast or croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter, and serve. (5) Finely mince some cold remains of cooked Veal. Put a few small mushrooms in a stewpan with a piece of butter, and place them over the fire for a-quarter-of-an- liour; next put in the mince with loz. of butter that has been worked up with 1 table-spoonful each of flour and cream, season to taste with salt and pepper, and let the whole simmer at the edge of the fire for five or six minutes. When ready, turn the mince on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter, and serve. Minced Veal d la Biscayenne.—Proceed as for Minced Veal a la Catalan, adding 1 pint of potatoes cooked in Parisian style, and two cut-up tomatoes fifteen minutes before serving. Minced Veal a la Catalan.—Mince 2lb. of Veal and brown it in a saucepan with 3 table-spoonfuls of sweet- oil, one onion cut in quarters, and half a minced green pepper. When a fine colour, add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and mix thoroughly. Moisten with 1 pint of white broth, and season with 1 heaped table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper; stir briskly, and add a bouquet-garni, three crushed cloves of garlic, and 1 gill of tomato sauce. Cook well for twenty-five minutes, and serve on a hot dish, sprinkling over a little chopped parsley. Minced Veal a la Polonaise.—Mince a sufficient quantity of lean cooked Veal to fill two breakfast-cups, put it into a stewpan, moisten with a moderate quantity of rich gravy, and add seasonings to taste. Make the Veal hot, then move it to the side of the fire, and stir in the yolk of an egg that has been beaten with the juice of half a lemon and strained. Wash and boil the required quantity of spinach, and when tender drain and press it well to extract all the water possible. Chop the spinach and put it into a saucepan with \ teacupful of thick cream, loz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity each of powdered white sugar and grated nutmeg. Stir the spinach over the fire for a few minutes, being very careful not to let it burn, then pack it closely in a buttered border mould, and keep it hot in a bain-marie. Poach a few eggs as carefully as possible, and fry some thin rolls of bacon. Turn the border out of the mould on to a hot dish, pour the minced Veal in the centre, lay the eggs on the top of the Veal, first trimming off any ragged edges, and place the rolls of bacon on the border of spinach, alternating each roll with a small crouton of fried bread. Serve while hot. Minced Veal .a la Turque.—Finely mince 31b. of raw Veal, put it into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls Veal—continued. of water, and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and stir it over the fire until the moisture has evaporated and the mince well browned. Peel and finely chop three onions and a small bunch of parsley from the stems; soak the crumb of a French roll in water. Mix all the ingredients together, season with salt and pepper, and stir in sufficient beaten egg to make a stiffish paste, working it well. Put 4oz. of lmtter into a deep frying-pan, place it over the fire till hot, then pour in the mixture and fry it till nicely browned, turning it when done on one side and finishing the other. When cooked, turn the cake of mincemeat on to an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve immediately. Minced Veal with Currants.—Cut the remains of some cold roast Veal into small square pieces, removing the skin. Put 2oz. or 3oz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, and stir them over the fire until nicely browned ; then put in 1 breakfast-cupful of well- washed currants and a piece of lemon-peel, pour in 1 pint of gravy and 1 wineglassful of white wine, season with a small quantity of salt, and simmer gently at the side of the fire. When the currants are soft, put in the pieces of Veal, and make them hot without boiling. Turn the mince on to a hot dish, and serve. Minced Veal with Macaroni.—Finely mince lib. of Veal, and mix with it Jib. each of minced ham and finely-grated breadcrumb, and a little grated lemon-peel. Season the mixture with salt and pepper, and bind it together with 2 table-spoonfuls of rich gravy and two well-beaten eggs. Boil 6oz. of macaroni, and when tender drain it well. Butter a mould, line it with macaroni, mix a little of the macaroni with the Veal mixture, and turn it into the mould, pressing it tightly down. Stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for half--an-hour. When cooked, turn the Veal and macaroni out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich gravy. Minced Veal with Mushrooms and Cream.-Empty a tin of small mushrooms into a saucepan, put in a piece of butter, and stew them for fifteen minutes over a slow fire. Finely chop some cold roasted Veal, and season it with pepper and salt. Mince the mushrooms, mix them with the Veal, and turn all into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter that has been worked with 2 table spoonfuls of flour, and a little more than $ teacupful of cream, or creamy sauce. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes. Turn the mince on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast, and serve. Minced Veal with Poached Eggs. -Chop as finely as possible some cold lean Veal, put it into a stewpan with sufficient bechamel sauce to moisten, but not to make it too thin, and let it heat gradually at the side of the fire. Poach a sufficient quantity of eggs in water in which a small quantity of vinegar has been mixed, and as each lot are done take them out and put them into another pan of water. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the minced Veal, and turn it on to a hot dish. Take the eggs out of the water one at a time with a slice, trim them nicely, lay them over the mince, garnish with toast sippets (see Fig. 947), and serve. Minced Veal with Potatoes.—Finely chop some cold cooked Veal, and mix with it an equal quantity of cold boiled potatoes also finely chopped, a lump of butter, and a little hot Veal broth or water. Season the mixture with salt and pepper, and dredge a little flour over it. Put the mixture into a saucepan, cover with the lid, and stand it over the fire till hot. Turn the mince on to a hot dish, For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces. d*c., referred to. see under their special heads. Ml'Wsii 1 libhakr ' LFFIW