676 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, V anilla—continued. yields from two to six drops of liquid, having a most powerful, pungent, aromatic odour, and soft spicy flavour. It is found climbing up the trees in Mexico, and an Fig. 923. Vanilla. Flower-pod and Section of Pod. inferior quality grows in Honduras, Guinea, Brazil, Peru, and Ceylon. Pour sorts of Yanilla come to the English market, in packets of fifty to one hundred pods. The best comes from Mexico, and is worth five or six sovereigns per pound. It is probably due to its cost that it is so great a favourite; the balsam of Peru is frequently used as a substitute. Its uses for flavouring are exceedingly numerous, the following preparations being generally employed for that purpose: Essence of Vanilla.—(1) Cut three pods of Yanilla into very small shreds, put them in a bottle with 1 pint of brandy, and cork the bottle. Shake the Vanilla occasionally, and in three months’ time it will be ready for use. (2) Cut eight sticks of Vanilla into small jiieces, put them into a magnum bottle, pour in lqt. of rectified spirits of wine, and cork it down tightly. Keep the bottle in a warm temperature for two weeks. Draw the essence off and decant it in small well-stoppered bottles. Extract of Vanilla.—Cut and chop very fine two or three Vanilla pods, or pound them fine in a mortar. Rub or pound into them a little powdered white sugar. Put the Vanilla and sugar into a pint bottle, add to it 1 table- spoonful of water, and let it stand all night. Next day pour on it J pint of spirits of wine, cork it well, and let it stand for a month, shaking it well every day. Vanilla Flavouring.—(1) Steep 1 drachm of freshly sliced Vanilla pod in 1 pint of 95 per cent, alcohol, for twenty days. At the end of that time filter the liquor, and bottle it ready for use. (2) Split four Vanilla beans, clip them into bits with a pair of scissors, and scrape out the seeds. Put seeds, husks, and all into a bottle, then pour over the Vanilla 1 pint of brandy or whisky, and cork it tightly. Shake the bottle frequently for the first four or five weeks; it is then fit for use, and will keep for years. (3) The flavouring obtained from Vanilla pods exceeds that of the essence or extract, and is therefore preferred by professional cooks. The pods should be stirred amongst the substance to be flavoured, taken out when sufficient flavour has been imparted, then washed in two waters, and dried for future use. If care be taken, the pods may last for a long time. When using Vanilla the greatest care should be exer- cised, as if it be in excess it is apt to have a nauseating effect upon the palate. Although Vanilla is not injurious to the human system when taken in moderate quantities, nevertheless excessive doses are apt to produce a kind of stupor following exhilaration. The following receipts Vanilla —continued. give a very good idea of the numerous uses to which the Vanilla flavour may be applied. Several other receipts in which Vanilla is used will be found under various headings. Vanilla Barley Sugar.—Put lib. of best loaf sugar in a saucepan with \ pint of water, 1 teaspoonful of acetic acid, a liqueur-glassful of kirschenwasser, and 1 teaspoonful of Vanilla flavouring. Boil the sugar to the crack degree, then put in a few sheets of thin leaf gold. Oil a deep tin dish, and pour in the sugar. When nearly set, mark the surface with the back of a knife in the shape of diamonds, then leave it till quite set. Break the sugar where it is marked. Vanilla Biscuits.—Beat the yolks of six eggs with Jib. of caster sugar and a little grated lemon-peel. Beat the whites of the six eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly in with the beaten yolks; dredge in Jib. of flour, flavour with a little essence of Vanilla, and work it till quite smooth. Lay the mixture out in rounds on cartridge or foolscap paper, using a biscuit-forcer for the purpose; dust them over with Vanilla sugar, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked, take the biscuits out and join them together in pairs. See Fig. 924. Vanilla Cake.—Prepare about lib. of fine puff paste, roll it out thin, sprinkle over a few drops of essence of Vanilla, fold the paste over, and work it iVi. Put it on a baking- sheet, having it 6in. wide and 2Jin. thick or thereabouts ; surround it with a band of thick paper to prevent it spreading while cooking, brush the surface with egg, decorate it in any desired form, put it in a quick oven, and bake for about two-hours-and-a-half or more. This cake must be allowed to remain in the oven until perfectly cooked, otherwise it would be soft and uneatable. When done, sprinkle over some sugar, and serve cold. If the Vanilla flavouring is not liked, the cakes may be flavoured with almost anything, such as chopped orange- flowers, orange or citron-peel, currants, Parmesan cheese, or anything else that may be preferred. Vanilla Cake a la Cussy. -Put lib. of sugar into a large basin and add fourteen eggs; whip these well together over a slow fire for ten minutes, then add Jib. of butter warmed to melting, Jib. of ground rice, and 1 table-spoonful of Vanilla sugar. Put this into a plain mould (well buttered and floured) about 3in. high and 9in. in diameter, and bake in a moderate oven. Take the cake out of the mould, and when it is cold glaze it with the following : Put 1 pint of syrup at 36deg. and a stick of Vanilla cut in pieces into a sugar-boiler, and boil to 3Sdeg.; then remove it from the fire, and when cool take out the Vanilla and beat the syrup with a spatula until it is granulated perfectly smooth and the icing thickens. Vanilla Candy Tablets.—Put lib. of load sugar into a sugar-boiler with just sufficient water to dissolve it. Boil the sugar to the ball degree, then pour in a few drops of acetic acid and flavour with essence of Vanilla. Work the sugar against the sides of the pan with a silver spoon, using the back part of the bowl, thus giving it an opalised appearance. When finished working the sugar, pour it into a tin dish, leave it till nearly set, then mark the tablets out with the back of a knife on the surface of the sugar. Before the sugar is poured in, the tin should be lightly brushed over with oil of almonds. Dry the sugar in the screen, and when hard snap it apart where marked.