747 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, L'tensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads V inegar—continued. manufacturer as numbers 16, 17, 18, 20, 22, and 24, according to the percentag-e of alcohol they contain. This should vary from 3 to 6 per cent. Vinegar is adulterated by excessive dilution with water, burnt sugar colouring, the addition of impure acetic acid, and, worst of all, by the addition of sulphuric acid. The pro- portion of acid can be discovered by Stokes’s Acidity Pellets (see Pig. 1011), their use being described under Milk ; the only precaution necessary to render this test perfect is to add an equal portion of milk to the quantity of Vinegar to be tested, and take the re suit as half that given in the usual way. Vinegar can be made by the use of what is called the Vinegar-plant, this being a mass of Vinegar ferment or mother of Vinegar, usually sold worked up in sour dough. Samples of this that have been examined under the microscope contain an im- mense number of minute creatures known as Vinegar-eels (see Fig. 1012). Whatever their influence may be when present, it is quite certain that Vinegar can be produced equally well in their absence. Flavoured Vinegars, such as garlic, raspberry, tarragon, &c., will be found described under their special headings. The following receipts for preparing Vinegar at home may be found useful: Fig. 1011. Stokes’s Patent Acidity Pellets (Dairy Supply Co.). (1) Put lib. of coarse brown sugar in a saucepan, pour 1 gall, of water over it, and boil for fifteen minutes, skimming it well at the same time. Turn the liquor out of the saucepan, and leave it till nearly cold. Toast a thick slice of bread, spread some yeast on it, and put it in the sugar water. On the following day turn the liquor into a cask, cover the bung-hole with a cloth or piece of paper, hut do not stop it up, and keep the cask in a warm place. If not sufficiently acid at the end of a year, let the Vinegar stand longer. When ready, bottle off the Vinegar. Fig. 1012. Vinegar-eels. (2) Put ^lb. of brown sugar and 3 pints of water in a vessel, stir it until the sugar has dissolved, then put in a vinegar-plant, and stand the vessel in a rather dark place. If in the winter time, the Vinegar should he kept in a warm place ; but if in the summer-time, it is best made in a cask and exposed to the sun. In about seven weeks’ time the Vinegar should be drawn off and bottled ; Vinegar—continued. if left longer, the plant will feed on the Vinegar and weaken it. (3) Put 7lb. of the coarsest brown sugar in a lined pan with 4 gall, of water, and boil it. Skim the sugar, take it off the tire, pour 1 gall, of cold water in with it, then turn it into a 5 gall, keg, and mix with it some small pieces of toast that have been spread with a teacupful of brewer’s yeast. Stir the mixture every day for a week, and at the end of that time tack a piece of gauze over the bung-hole, and put it in a place where the sun may shine on it. In six months’ time the Vinegar may he drawn off for use. It is best to make the Vinegar in the spring of the year, so that it may have as much heat from the sun as possible. (4) Put Oqts. of water in a large vessel with 2lb. of raw sugar, and boil it for twenty minutes or half-an-hour, skimming oft' any scum that may rise to the top. At the end of that time pour the Vinegar into an earthenware vessel, and leave it until lukewarm. Thickly spread a slice of bread on both sides with yeast, put it into the warm Vinegar, and let it ferment for two days. Rinse a small barrel out with plain Vinegar, then pour in the sugar Vinegar. Paste a stout piece of brown paper over the bung-liole, and prick two or three small holes in it with a fork. Keep the barrel in a dry warm place. In two months’ time the Vinegar may he bottled for use. Camp Vinegar.—Add to 1 pint of the best Vinegar 4 table- spoonfuls of walnut ketchup, 2 table-spoonfuls of soy, six anchovies chopped line, a small clove of garlic also chopped line, and 1 drachm of cayenne pepper. Put all this into a bottle, and let it stand, well corked, for a month, shaking the bottle frequently. Strain it through a cloth, put it into small bottles, and cork tightly. McCarty’s Vinegar. —Put 2 table-spoonfuls of 'Worcester- shire sauce and £ table-spoonful of tobasco pepper-sauce into a pint bottle, and fill it up with tarragon vinegar. Cork the bottle, and shake it well. This is a splendid relish when used in salads and sauces, or on broiled fish. The Vinegar takes its name from the proprietor of an hotel in New York, who is said to be the originator of the receipt. The following are a few samples of the culinary uses to which Vinegar may be applied, besides those of flavouring and pickling : Vinegar Cake.—Warm Goz. of butter, and beat it together with ill), of caster sugar till creamy; then add four eggs, beating each one for five minutes before another is added, and mix in | pint of milk and 2 table spoonfuls of Vinegar. Mix I teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and 4lb. of well- waslied currants with 111), of flour, stir in the above mixture, and when quite smooth turn it into a buttered cake-tin. Bake the cake for an hour-ami-a half in a moderate oven ; when cooked, turn it out of the tin. Vinegar Candy.—(1) Stir 111), of white sugar into I pint of white Vinegar; when the sugar is quite dissolved, set it over the fire and let it boil gently till thick enough to pull, then turn it on to buttered dishes ; the dishes should be flat and quite cold. As soon as the candy is sufficiently cooled to touch, pull it with the tips of your fingers till quite white and porous. (2) Mix with 41b. of molasses 4 table-spoonfuls of water and 1 teacupful of good cider Vinegar. Place it over a moderate fire and boil it, keeping the pan covered till when a little of it tried in cold water hardens. Pour it then into buttered tins, pull it till light, and cut it into sticks, lozenges, or balls of convenient size. Vinegar Pie.—Boil 1 pint of water, \ pint of Vinegar, and loz. of butter together. Mix lib. of brown sugar and 1 teaspoonful of ground cinnamon with 4oz. of flour, then dredge it into the boiling liquid, stirring at the same time. Take the mixture off the fire when partly thickened and before it boils. Roll some pie-crust out very thin, line a buttered baking-tin with it, pour in the above mixture, cover with a flat of the same paste, pinching and pressing the edges together, and bake. When cooked, turn the pie carefully out of the tin on to a dish, and serve.