732 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Vegetable Marrows—continued. Stewed Vegetable Marrow.—(1) Peel some young Vegetable Marrows and cut them into convenient-sized pieces, put them in a saucepan with a good-sized lump of butter, season them to taste with salt and pepper, and toss them over the fire for a-quarter-of-an-hour; then pour in as much plain stock freed from fat as will reach to half their height, and boil them gently until quite tender. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, anil stir in quickly the yolk of an egg that has been well beaten with the juice of a lemon and strained, and add about 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley. Put some slices of hot buttered toast on to a hot dish, turn the Marrow on to it, and serve without delay. (2) Select young Vegetable Marrows, peel them, and cut them into small pieces. Rub the inside of a saucepan over with garlic, put in 2oz. of butter, and place the pan over the fire; when the butter has melted, put in the pieces of Vegetable Marrow, season them with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and toss them about over the fire for fifteen minutes; then put in plenty of grated Parmesan cheese, and finish cooking. If too dry, a small quantity of milk, or more butter, may be added. Cut two or three slices of bread of a moderate thickness, toast them and butter them while hot, lay them on a hot dish, pour the Marrow over them, dust a small quantity of cayenne pepper on the top, and serve. Stewed Vegetable Marrow with Cheese.—Procure two small Marrows, peel them, cut them in two lengthwise, and scoop out the insides. Divide each half into two pieces lengthwise. Put a large lump of butter in a stew- pan, and when it has melted, put in the pieces of Marrow, dust them over with salt and pepper, and stew them gently for half-an-hour, shaking the stewpan constantly. Next mix in 2 heaped table spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, and when it has melted turn the whole on to a dish. Strew over a little more cheese and some finely- grated breadcrumbs, and put it in a brisk oven to brown, or brown them under a salamander. Serve the Marrow while veiy hot on the same dish. Stewed Vegetable Marrow with Cheese Sauce.—Peel sufficient Marrows, cut them in halves lengthwise, and scoop out all the seeds. Lay the Marrow in a stewpan with a sufficient quantity of boiling stock to cover it, and stew it gently until tender. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour, and mix them over the fire ; then stir in about 1 breakfast-cupful of plain white stock and 1 heaped table-spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese. Stir the sauce over the fire until it boils, then move it to the side, and season it to taste with salt and pepper. Drain the pieces of Marrow, lay them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Stuffed Vegetable Marrows.—(1) Peel two large Marrows, and boil them whole. When tender, drain them care- fully, cut off one end of each, and scoop out the seeds. Scrape off all the fat and jelly of some tinned mutton, and cut the meat into small pieces. Peel and chop finely one large or two small onions ; put loz. of butter into a stewpan and melt it; then put in the onion, and fry it; dredge in 1 table-spoonful of flour, and moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of clear gravy, not making it too liquid. Season with salt, pepper, and any kind of spices, add 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and let the whole simmer at the side of the fire. When the gravy has well reduced, put in the meat, and stir it well over the Vegetable Marrows—continued. fire until hot. Stuff the Marrows with the mixture, replace the piece that was cut off the end, lay them on a hot dish (see Fig. 996), and serve. (2) Carefully peel a small Marrow, cut it level at both ends, scoop out the centre, put the Marrow into a stewpan with plenty of boiling water, well seasoned with salt, and cook for twelve or fifteen minutes, or until it is quite tender. Take out the Marrow, plunge it into cold water, and then drain it on a sieve. Finely chop Jib. of any kind of meat, such as veal, rabbit, or chicken, mix in the yolks of two eggs and a little more then 1 table-spoonful of thick bechamel sauce, also a little each of cayenne and salt, and mix well. Stuff the Marrow with this, using a biscuit- or forcing-bag for the purpose, roll the Marrow lightly in flour, brush it over with beaten egg, cover it with fine breadcrumbs, and fry it a golden colour in boiling fat. (3) Take a tin of beef or mutton, open it, turn the meat out, scrape off all the fat and jelly, and mince the meat; then put it in a jar and make it hot, by letting it stand in a pan of boiling water, lloil two Vegetable Marrows whole; when cooked, cut off the stem ends and scoop out the seeds. Fill the insides with the hot mince meat, replace the ends that were cut off, and serve at once. (4) Peel two Vegetable Marrows, cut them in halves lengthwise, and scrape out the seeds and soft part. Prepare the following stuffing for them: Rub a mortar slightly over with garlic, put in it some small pieces of veal and ham in equal quantities, and pound them to a smooth paste; pass this through a fine wire sieve, return it to the mortar, and mix with it a quarter of its bulk of butter, and the same of stale breadcrumbs. Pound the mixture again, season it to taste with salt, pepper, spices, and a moderate quantity each of minced parsley and powdered sweet herbs, bind the mixture with beaten yolks of eggs, and fill the halves with it. Wrap the Marrows in sheets of buttered paper, tying them round with fine string, lay them side by side in a buttered baking-tin, cover them with a plate, and bake them in the oven. When the Marrows are cooked, carefully remove the papers, lay them on a hot dish, pour round them some tomato sauce, or clear gravy that has been nicely flavoured, and serve. (o) Cut one or two Marrows in halves across, and scrape out all the seeds and a little of the pulp, rub the hollow with a little salt, and remove the rinds. Chop Jib. of mutton and one onion up very fine, and add a little minced parsley, seasoning with salt and pepper, and work- ing in a, small quantity of rice. Mix thoroughly, and stuff the pieces of Vegetable Marrow with it. Put them in a saucepan with a very little water, and boil very slowly until they are done. (6) Cut a couple of nice-sized Vegetable Marrows in four lengthwise, and partially boil them in salted water. Rub a baking-dish over with garlic, and butter it thickly; lay the Marrows in it, strew plenty of grated Parmesan cheese over them, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; lay a few thin slices of butter on the top, cover with a layer of grated breadcrumb, and bake in a moderate oven between twenty minutes and half-an-hour. Serve the Marrows while very hot in the same dish. (7) Select some Vegetable Marrows, small but all as nearly the same size as possible, pare them very thinly, cut a piece off the top of each, and scoop out the insides. Grate sufficient Parmesan cheese to fill the Marrows, and mix with it about 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley and 2 teaspoonfuls of finely-chopped mint, seasoning the mixture with salt and pepper. Stuff the Vegetable Marrows with the mixture. Put a good-sized lump of butter in a deep frying-pan, and make it hot; dip the Marrows in beaten eggs, then put them in the pan. and fry them till nicely browned. Drain the fat off the Marrows, put them in a saucepan, pour in sufficient clear stock broth to cover them, and boil them gently till tender and the moisture has somewhat evaporated. When cooked, arrange the Marrows on a hot dish, pour the remainder of their cooking liquor over them, and serve.