TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 777 For details respecting Culinary Processed, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. WILD FOWL.—See Wild Duck, Wild Goose, &c. WILD GOOSE.—This bird, the progenitor of the domestic Goose, is not usually considered worthy of the cook’s attention. In exceptionally cold weather, it is found frequenting some parts of the lowland country, and when caught may he cooked as follows : Baked Wild Goose with Giblet Sauce.—Take two or three Wild Geese, cut oft' their wings and legs at the first joint, draw them, keeping all the g.blets (except the heart), with the neck cut off close to the body, for the sauce. Wash the birds thoroughly, and put them into a baking-pan with a little water, dripping, and salt; dust them over with pepper, and cover them with slices of fat pork, or a little of the suet out of a loin of beef beaten to a sheet. Put the pan in the oven, and when the pork is browned and shrunken, lay a piece of lalttered paper over them all; baste frequently and bake for three hours. The water will have evaporated by the time they are done. Poll them well in the glaze and fat, put them on a dish, and serve with giblet sauce. In plucking a Wild Goose, it is not necessary to scald it. Baked Wild Goose with Mushroom or Celery Sauce.— Pluck, singe, and draw a Wild Goose, and steep it in salted water for several hours. Cut an onion into slices, put it in the inside, sew it up, and plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water for twenty minutes. Take it out, remove the onion from the inside, stuff the bird with a little celery and mashed potatoes, a few hard-boiled eggs, and a little fat pork, or any other cold meat, all very finely chopped; also a grated turnip, a little chopped onion, 1 table spoonful of pepper vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. Sew it up, truss it, put it in a baking- dish with a teacupful of stock or broth, brush over with warmed butter, dust it with flour, put a piece of well buttered paper over the breast, and bake in a moderate oven till done. Place it on a dish, and pour over it either its own gravy and a little mushroom or celery sauce. Garnish the dish with sprays of watercress (see Fig. 1059), and serve. Braised Wild Goose with Sour-crout.—Select a bird that has been hanging up for several days, pluck, draw, wash, and wipe it inside, put into it a bunch of sweet herbs, and truss it. Place a layer of vegetables and trimmings of fat bacon at the bottom of a braising-pan, lay the Goose on this, lift the pan to half the height of the bird with broth and t pint of white wine, dust over with salt, and add a few cloves, peppercorns, and sweet herbs; put a sheet of buttered paper over all, place the pan over a moderate fire, cover the lid with hot ashes, turn the Goose once or twice, and let it braise for several hours. When done, take it out, drain, remove the string of the trussing, and place it on a dish on a garnish of cooked sour-crout. Strain the stock through a sieve, skim off the fat, set it on the fire to reduce it to half glaze, and serve separately in a sauceboat. WILD TURKEY.—See Turkeys. WILHELM’S QUELLE.—See Aerated Water. WILTSHIRE BACON. —See Bacon. WINDSOR BEANS.—See Beans. WINDSOR CREAM.—See Cream. WINES (Fr. Vins; Ger. Weine ; Ital. Vini; Sp. Vinos).—Next in importance to the service of viands is that of the beverages to accompany them. Chief of all these stands out the giant of ages, which Dr. Dupre describes as the “fermented juice of the grape.” The juices of other fruits are sometimes fermented, and might be included under the generic title of Wines, but to the palate of the epicure these are altogether unknown, or absolutely ignored as unworthy the least consideration. Nevertheless, under British Wines and other special headings, ample evidence may be found to prove that Wines from other fruits, such as currant, gooseberry, and rhubarb, may be produced that rival many a grape Wine, even if they are not occasionally employed as an un- known, and therefore unappreciated, substitute. These “pretentious usurpers,” as they have been erratically styled, are fully discussed elsewhere; the Wines for con- sideration under this heading are strictly those produced from the juice of the grape, and will be found sufficiently numerous and interesting to occupy as much space as can be afforded in this Encyclopaedia to the subject. The history of Wine is rooted so deeply in the darkness of ages that no reliable record is to be found of its birth and discovery. It has been attributed to Noah, because m the ninth chapter of Genesis we are informed that “ Noah awoke from his Wine.” Noah was well acquainted with the luscious juice of the grape before he entered the ark; but whether he had undergone any experience of it in a fermented state prior to his notorious alcoholic obfusca- tion, is a matter that has not yet been decided, in spite of the keenest theological argument and research. He evidently knew the value of grapes, for he had no sooner landed from the ark, according to Scripture history, than “ he began to be a husbandman, and planted a vine- yard ” with vines that he must have taken with him into the ark. The first faint traces we have of the cultivation of the grape and the manufacture of Wine come from Asia; thence, according to Humboldt, it passed into Greece, and thence into Sicily. It was introduced into France by the Phoenicians, when those Ionian colonists fled from the power of Cyrus and founded the city of Marseilles, about 540 b.c. In an article contributed by Mr. R. Thompson to Lindley’s “ Treasury of Botany,” he tells us that “ From Greece or from Sicily it (the vine) could have been easily introduced into Italy. The Romans planted it on the banks of the Rhine, and even, it is said, in Britain. But Tacitus mentions, B.c. 55, that our climate was thought unpropitious to the vine, which failed to mature its fruit owing to the moist atmosphere of our island. It would appear from this that its cultivation had been attempted, for otherwise its failure could not have been asserted. The same author states that it was not known when Agricola commanded the island. Domitian restricted the cultivation of the vine, wishing rather to encourage that of grain; but in A.d. 278 permission to plant the vine was given by the Emperor Probus. Being free from restriction, its cultivation throughout the pro- vinces, including Britain, would, of course, extend; and before the Roman power had so far declined as to permit the Saxon invasion, vineyards must have existed in this country. They are mentioned in the earliest Saxon charters, and those vineyards must have existed pre- viously ; for, as authors have remarked, the combating invaders could neither have bad the time nor probably the skill to plant them. The monks in a.d. 1140 planted a vineyard at Edmondsbury in Suffolk, and William of Malmesbury says that vineyards were possessed by barons as well as by monks. Winton, afterwards named by the Saxons Winchester, or the city of Wine, was so- called because there was the best vintage in Britain.” From the failure to cultivate the grape for Wine- making in Britain it must not be inferred that the Britons were not fond of Wine, nor that they have fallen