707 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, sec under their special heads. V eal—continued. Madeira. Line a pie-terrine with thin layers of bacon, put a layer of prepared forcemeat at the bottom of it, then put in the larded cushion of Veal, and surround and cover it with the forcemeat, building it on the top in a dome like shape. Stand the terrine in a baking-dish and put it in a moderate oven. Baste the terrine often, and in an hour’s time pour a little warm water in the pan, and bake it an-hour-and-a-half longer. When cooked, take the terrine out of the oven, leave it for half-an-hour, then put a light weight on the top, and leave it till cool. Take the top off the terrine, take the meat out, cut it in slices, and put it back again. Stand the terrine on a round dish, garnish it with croutons of aspic jelly, and serve. Timbales of Veal.—(1) Trim off all the skin from a fillet of Veal, cut the meat into small pieces, put them in a mortar, and pound them. Put six chickens’ livers in a fry ing pan with some bacon fat, and fry them. Drain the livers, pound them, mix them with the pounded Veal, season with mixed spices, pepper, and salt, and pass it through a fine hair sieve; then mix with it 5 table- spoonfuls of rather coarsely chopped cooked ham. Butter some small dariole-moulds, line them with a rich short-paste, and fill them with the mixture. Bake the darioles for about twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven, then take them out, and level the contents off to the same height as the moulds. Take the timbales out of the moulds, pour a little thick sauce in them, cover with some lids of puff paste that have been baked by themselves, arrange them on a hot dish covered by a lace-edged paper (See Fig. 954), and serve. (2) Mince some cold cooked Veal, put it into a sauce pan, moisten it with a few table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, and let it heat gradually at the edge of the fire. Make some pancake battqr without flavouring or sugar, and fry it in butter the same as pancakes. Butter well the interior of an oval-sliaped mould, and line it at the bottom and all round the sides with pancakes. Spread some of the pancakes with the mince, roll them up, lay them closely in the mould, and cover the whole with a pancake. Place the moirld in a moderate oven, keeping it in position by placing ashes round it, and bake for half-an hour. Meanwhile prepare a small quantity of rich well flavoured gravy. When ready, turn the timbale out of the mould on to a hot dish, pour the gravy round it, and serve. This is a very good way of warming up cold Veal. Veal a la Barbarie.—Cut some large thick slices of Veal from the cushion, and stud them with truffles. Cook them slowly in a saute-pan with butter, dust with salt and cayenne pepper, and serve with Barbary sauce. Veal a la Casserole.—Cut 41b. of Veal about 3in. thick off the fillet, roll it up, bind it round with tape, rub it over with flour, put it in a stewpan with a small piece of butter, and fry it till nicely browned all over. Pour J pint of rich gravy in with the Veal, season it with salt and pepper, put the lid on the stewpan, and cook the contents slowly for four hours. When cooked, take the Veal up, put it on a hot dish, first removing the tape, and keep it hot. Boil the cooking liquor quickly till stiffly reduced, then pour it over the meat, and serve. Veal Farces.—See Forcemeats and Stuffing, and various receipts for preparing Veal in which stuffing is used. Veal a lTfcalieiine.—Boil -£ pint of milk, with an onion and a bay leaf, for a quarter-of -an-hour; then remove the i V eal—continued. bay-leaf, and pour the boiling milk over a heaped break fast-cupful of grated breadcrumbs. Finely chop lib. of raw Veal and pound it in a mortar, mixing with it a small quantity of cold cooked fat; next mix in the soaked crumbs, and pass the mixture through a coarse sieve. Divide it into equal portions, which mould into rolls with flour. Procure as many small pieces of cloth as there are rolls, wring them out in boiling water, flour them, tie a roll in each, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them from ten to fifteen minutes. When cooked, drain the rolls, remove the cloths, place them on a hot dish, pour some nicely flavoured brown gravy round them, and serve. Veal a la Polonaise.—Put about 4lb. of fillet of Veal on a talile, and beat it until quite soft with a heavy rolling- pin. Make several holes in the Veal, fill them with fillets of fat bacon and fillets of sardines, rub the meat over with a clove of garlic and a small quantity of grated lemon peel, dust it with salt and pepper, roll it up tightly, and secure it with twine; then baste it with a few table- spoonfuls of warmed butter, and cook it in a stewpan, basting occasionally with butter and milk. Turn the Veal until it is nicely browned all over, then put the lid on the stewpan, and leave it at the side of the fire until the moisture of the gravy is reduced. When done, take the Veal out of the stewpan, let it stand until cold, and then remove the twine. Bet the meat on a dish that has been spread with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish it with parsley, and serve. The meat will take at least two hours to cook. Veal Birds or Mock Pigeons.—(1) Take a loin piece of Veal, cut off some thin slices, remove the fat, skin, and bone, beat them well until Jin. thick, and cut them into pieces 4in. by 24in. For every slice take a piece of fat bacon about lin. square. Cut up the bacon and trimmings very fine. Take half the bulk of cracker- or bread-crumbs that there is chopped Veal, and season with onion, thyme, cayenne, lemon, salt, and pepper. Mix them together, and moisten with an egg and a little boiling water. Put this mixture over the pieces of meat, not quite to the edge, roll them up, and tie them round with string; sprinkle over a little flour, salt, and pepper, put them into a fry- ing pan of boiling butter, and fry till they are of a light brown, taking care not to burn them. Pour a little cream over them, and let them simmer for twenty minutes longer, when they should be tender. When done, take them out, remove the string, and put them on round slices of toast, laid on a dish. Pour some more cream over them, and garnish with quarters or slices of lemon and small triangular shaped pieces of toast (see Fig. 955). If the Veal is rather hard, dip it into olive oil before spreading with the onion mixture. (2) Make some forcemeat of finely-chopped pork and sifted breadcrumbs, seasoning it to taste. Take three or four Veal cutlets, and if there is any bone in them cut it out. Spread a thick layer of the forcemeat over each cutlet, and roll each up separately and tightly, tying them into shape with line twine. Lay them in a baking-tin, pour over them sufficient cold water to half cover them, turn another tin over them, put them in the oven, and bake from forty-five minutes to an hour, according to size. Take a calf’s sweetbread, boil it a quarter of an hour, then plunge it into very cold water to blanch it; when it is "well cooled, cut it into small square pieces, put it over the fire in l pint of strong brown gravy, and let it gently simmer. Peel and chop small J pint of mushrooms, fry them in