THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 738 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Venison—continued. (4) Cook some anchovies in a saucepan till they are quite dissolved, then add to them a few oysters with their liquor, some red wine, a little ketchup, and a little milk. Let this sauce boil up, then add the cooked Venison cut into slices, and let it get quite hot, hut do not let the sauce boil after the Venison is put in. When thoroughly hot, put the slices of Venison on a dish, lay sippets of fried bread round, and pour the sauce over it. (5) The following is a good way of using up the remains of cold roasted Venison. Mix 1 teacupful of Madeira with any Venison gravy that may have been left, and boil it till reduced to half-glaze. Mix 2 teaspoonfuls of arrow- root to a smooth batter with a little cold water, mix it in with the sauce, and stir it over the fire till thick; then take it off, add a small piece of glaze and 2 table- spoonfuls of red-currant jelly, and stir the sauce by the side of the lire till the jelly has melted. Cut the Venison into thin slices, put them in the sauce, and warm them up without allowing them to boil. Turn the hash on to a hot dish, and serve it. (6) Trim off the outside parts of some cold cooked Venison, and cut the meat into thin slices. Put the bones and trimmings into a stewpan with any gravy that may be left, 1 breakfast-cupful each of clear stock and claret, 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped shallots, three or four cloves, and 1 teaspoonful of ketchup. Put the lid on the stewpan, and keep the contents simmering at the side of the fire for about an hour-and-a-half. When ready, put into a saucepan loz. of butter, with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire; when well mixed, strain in the above liquor, and stir the whole until boiling again. Season the sauce to taste with salt and pepper, and leave it until cold; then put in the slices of Venison, and warm all together at the side of the fire. It should take nearly two hours to get hot. Turn the hash on to a hot dish, garnish it with small croutons of bread that have been fried brown in butter, and serve it with red-currant jelly. (7) Finely chop 21b. or 31b. of Venison, put it into a saucepan with a few table-spoonfuls of stock, and bring it gently to the boil; then stir in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly, sprinkle in a little cayenne, and add 1 wineglassful of port wine. Remove the pan from the fire, turn the whole on to a hot dish, and serve with cut cooked French beans for garnish. (8) Cut the Venison into thin slices, and mix with 4 table-spoonful of caster sugar, 1 saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, and 4 saltspoonful of salt; add to these 1 wine- glassful of port wine, 2 table-spoonfuls of Harvey’s sauce, the strained juice of half a lemon, and a few drops of mushroom ketchup. Stand the basin containing this mixture in a pan of hot water, and heat it gradually. Thicken 14 breakfast-cupfuls of brown gravy with flour and butter, put in the slices of Venison, and stew them gently at the edge of the fire until thoroughly hot. Four the mixture in the basin in with the Venison, turn all on to a hot dish, and serve. Necks of Venison a la Bohemienne.—Cut the shoulders oft' two necks of Venison, not too deep, then cut the breast oft' rather narrow, pass the knife between the rib bones and the flesh to separate them, saw the bones oft' half-way up, and skewer the flap over. Remove the chine- bones from the flesh, and saw them off. Lard the necks, and lay them in a deep dish with a few thin slices of carrots, turnips, onion, and leek, and a few pieces of celery. Put lqt. of vinegar and 1 pint of broth in a saucepan, mix with it two blades of mace, 4 teaspoonful each of cloves and peppercorns, 41b. of moist sugar, three bay-leaves, and a small bunch of sweet herbs, composed of a few sprigs of parsley, thyme, and sweet marjoram. Boil the vinegar and seasoning for twenty minutes, then pour it over the meat, seeing that it is well covered. Leave the Venison in the marinade until the following day, turning it occasionally; then drain it, wrap each neck separately in sheets of oiled paper, and roast them for an hour in front of a clear fire. Put lqt. of poivrade sauce in a saucepan, and place it over the fire; when it boils, put in, in equal quantities, some stoned French olives, small pickled onions, and pickled mushrooms. When cooked, Venison—continued. remove the paper from the fillets, glaze them, and brown the tops of them under a salamander. Put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce round them, and serve. Neck of Venison a, la Corinthienne.—Cut the shoulder off two necks of Venison, but not too deep, and cut the breast off rather narrow; separate the flesh from the rib-bones to half-way up, then saw off the bones, and skewer the flap over; detach the chine-bones from the flesh, saw them oft’, and lard. Lay the necks in a deep dish with a few sliced carrots, turnips, onions, one leek, and two heads of celery cut up. Put lqt. of vinegar into a saucepan with l pint of broth, three bay-leaves, one or two blades of mace, 4 teaspoonful each of cloves and peppercorns, 41b. of raw sugar, a small quantity of salt, and a small bunch of sweet herbs, composed of a few sprigs of parsley, thyme, and sweet marjoram. Boil the vinegar and seasoning for twenty minutes, then pour it over the meat and vegetables in the dish. Turn the necks occasionally, and leave them until the following day; then drain them from the marinade, tie them up in sheets of buttered paper, and roast them in front of a clear fire for an hour. Strain 4 pint of the marinade liquor through a fine hair sieve into a saucepan, and mix with it 2 wine- glassfuls of port wine anil 2 table-spoonfuls of finely- chopped shallots, and boil it until reduced to half its original quantity. Thoroughly wash 41b. of currants, and soak them in boiling water. When the sauce has been re- duced, mix with it lqt. of brown sauce and stir it over the fire until it forms a thick cream, then mix with it 1 table- spoonful of currant jelly. Strain it through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, drain the currants, add them to the sauce, and boil it up again. When the necks are cooked, remove the paper, glaze them, and brown the tops under a salamander. Arrange them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve while very hot. Potted Venison.—Cut some cold cooked Venison into thin slices ; put 41b. of butter into a stewpan with a small quan- tity of spices, such as grated nutmeg, mace, cloves, and I white pepper, place it over the fire, and when melted put in the meat, and for every pound add 1 table-spoonful of currant jelly and 1 wineglassful of red wine. Let the meat simmer in the butter for twenty minutes, then take it out, mince it finely, and pound in a mortar. When quite smooth, pass the meat through a fine wire sieve, and mix the cooking butter and gravy with it. Pack it in small jars, and press it down tightly, leaving a clear Jin. space at the top. Fill the jars with clarified butter, and when it has got cold, tic the jars over tightly and put them away till required for use. Roasted Pillet of Venison.—Lard the fillet of Venison with narrow strips of bacon, trimming it neatly; put it in a basin with one onion stuck with three cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little coarse black pepper, and cover with equal quantities of white wine and vinegar; let it soak for two days. At the end of that time roast the fillet in front of a clear fire, basting it constantly with the marinading stock. When cooked, put the fillet on a hot dish, mix a little of the basting-liquor with some poivrade sauce, and serve it in a sauceboat with the fillet. Roasted Fore-quarter of Venison.—Bone the Venison, beat it well, and rub it over with salt. Prepare a paste of flour, eggs, a pinch of salt, and a little water, and lea^e it in a cool place for an hour; then roll it out thinly, cover it with slices of bacon, lay the Venison on the bacon, dust some pepper and salt over it, and wrap it up. Damp