770 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ctec., referred to, see under their special heads. Whiting—continued. and pollocks. The codling may be detected by the barbie under its lower jaw. Pollocks have the under-jaw pro- jecting beyond the upper one, whereas the Whiting’s upper jaw projects beyond the lower one (see Fig. 1051). Baked Fillets of Whiting.—(1) Skin and clean some Whiting, washing them well, and separate the fillets from the bones. Place a thick layer of chicken forcemeat on the bottom of a baking-dish, put in the fillets, season them with pepper and salt, cover them with another layer of the forcemeat, smooth the surface with the blade of a knife dipped in hot water, grate over some stale crust of bread, and baste with warmed butter. Bake the fish in a quick oven, and when cooked pour some Italian sauce over them, and serve. (2) Wash and clean the required quantity of Whiting, separate the fillets from the bones, season the fillets with salt and pepper, spread some fish forcemeat over one side of each, roll them up in such a way as to cover the forcemeat, and fasten them with a skewer. Make a pie- crust case and bake it, place the Whiting in the case, put in some oysters and mushrooms, pour in a little German sauce that has been flavoured with essence of mushrooms, and bake them in a quick oven. When cooked, put the Whiting on a hot dish, and serve. Baked Whiting.—(1) Skin a Whiting, put it in a buttered pie-dish, pour in 1 wineglassful of sherry, and cover thickly with sweet herbs. Cover the dish with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake the Whiting for about ten minutes in a brisk oven. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a saucepan, stir them over the fire till well mixed, then pour in the gravy out of the dish in which the fish has been cooked, and sufficient stock to make \ pint of sauce. Stir the sauce over the fire till thick and boiling, then add about 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. Put the fish on a hot dish, strain the sauce over it, garnish with some neat sprigs of . fresh parsley (see Fig. 1052), and serve without delay. (2) Skin and clean some small Whiting, wash well, dry them, and tie them round with their tails in their mouths; brush them over with warmed butter, season with pepper and salt, and coat them with finely grated breadcrumb. Butter a baking dish, put in the Whiting, and bake in a brisk oven for fifteen minutes. When cooked, drain the fish, put them on a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish them with parsley, and serve. (3) Scrape and clean a Whiting, wash well, and dry it ; put it in a buttered gratin-tin, season with salt and pepper, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and pour in 1 teacupful of water. Bake the Whiting in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Put loz. each of butter and flour into a saucepan, stir them over the fire till well mixed, dust in a small quantity of salt and pepper, and pour in gradually J pint of water. Strain the liquor off the Whiting into the sauce, and add about 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, shallots, and parsley. Stir the sauce by the side of the fire till the butter has melted; then put the Whiting on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. (4) Clean the required quantity of Whiting and lay them in a thickly-buttered pie-dish, with some finely- chopped parsley, thyme, tarragon, and shallots ; baste them with a few table-spoonfuls of white wine, and bake in a moderate oven, turning them when cooked on one side. When quite done, lay the fish on a hot dish ; pour the sauce and seasonings into a small stewpan, mix with them a lump of butter that has been kneaded with a small quantity of flour, season to taste with salt and pepper, Whiting —continued. and stir over the fire until boiling; then pour the sauce over the fish, and serve at once. Baked Whiting served with Caper Sauce.—Scale and clean some Whiting, wash and dry them on a cloth, put them in a buttered gratin-tin, season them with salt and pepper, pour in 1 teacupful of French white wine, and bake in a quick oven for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Make f pint of butter sauce, drain the liquor from the Whiting when they are cooked into the sauce, and mix in 4 teacupful of capers. Put the Whiting on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Baked Whiting served with White-Wine Sauce.— Clean some Whiting, put them in a buttered gratin- dish with 1 pint of French white wine and a small quantity of salt and pepper, and bake them in a quick oven for about twenty minutes. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a saucepan, stir them over the fire till the butter has dissolved and mixed with the flour, then dust in a small quantity of salt and pepper, pour in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and continue stirring over the fire till boiling. When cooked, drain the liquor from the fish into the sauce, add loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and stir by the side of the fire till the butter has melted. Put the Whiting on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Boiled Whiting.—Well wash the required quantity of Whiting but do not skin them, put them in a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil them for ten minutes. When cooked, strain the fish, put them on a folded table- napkin or an ornamental dish-paper placed on a hot dish, garnish with neat little sprigs of parsley, and serve them with a sauceboatful of melted butter sauce. Boiled Whiting aux Fines Herbes.—Thoroughly clean and wash five large-sized Whiting, dry them on a cloth, stuff them with fish forcemeat, put them on a buttered drainer in a fish-kettle, spread over them |lb. of butter, season with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, add 2qts. of mush- rooms, 2 table-spoonfuls of parsley, and a small blanched shallot, all finely chopped, squeeze over the juice of a lemon, and pour over J pint of white wine. Bring the liquor to the boil, and simmer for half-an-hour, basting the fish frequently ; take them out when done, put them on a dish, pour the liquor over them, and serve. Boudins of Whiting.—(1) Clean and skin some Whiting and pick all the flesh off the bones. Chop the flesh, put it in a mortar, pound, then rub it through a fine hair sieve. Put loz. of butter and l|oz. of flour into a sauce- pan, stir them over the fire till the butter has melted and mixed with the flour, then add gradually H teacupfuls of milk, mixing it smoothly, and continue stirring over the fire till thick and boiling. When done, move the sauce to the side of the fire, put in the pounded Whiting-flesh, the beaten yolks of two eggs, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy essence, 1 pinch of cayenne, and salt and pepper to taste, and squeeze in a little lemon juice. Beat the whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth, stir them in with the above mixture, and add eight chopped oysters. Lightly coat the insides of some dariole-moulds with butter, and fill them with the above mixture. Cover the moulds with sheets of buttered paper, put them in a stewpan, surround them with boiling water to a little more than half their height, and let them steam gently for about fifteen minutes. When cooked, turn the boudins out of the moulds on to a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper that has been placed on a hot dish, garnish with small pieces of parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of brown sauce. (2) Make some Whiting quenelle forcemeat. Put the spawn of a lobster in a saucepan with a small lump of butter and pound it, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Mix the pounded spawn with the forcemeat, divide it into halves, roll each half into puddings the same length as the dish on which they are to be served, and poach them in boiling water. Scallop the tail of a red lobster in several pieces. When cooked, drain the boudins on a cloth, split them, and put them on a hot dish. Prepare the following sauce: Put into a saucepan 2 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, |lb. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of lemon-