756 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Walnuts—continued. cayenne; cover the jar with a piece of bladder wetted with pickle, tie over that a piece of chamois leather, and put the jar on a trivet beside the fire or on a stove that is not very hot, and let it remain there for three days, shaking it up three times each day. Pour it hot over the Walnuts, and tie the jars down with bladder wetted with pickle, over that chamois leather, and over all strong brown paper firmly tied on. (6) Take the required quantity of Green Walnuts before the inner shell has hardened, put them into salted water, and let them steep in it for nine days, changing the brine every three days. Lay them on a mat or on sieves so that they do not touch one another, and put them out in the air to dry and blacken, turning them occasionally that they may blacken evenly all over; then put them into a jar. When half the nuts are in, put in an onion stuck with twenty-five or thirty cloves, and then put in the rest of the nuts. Allow to every hundred Walnuts sixty bay-leaves, 4oz. of whole pepper, Joz. of mace, and 4 pint of mustard seed; boil the spice in good strong vinegar, and cover the Walnuts with the vinegar, pouring it over them while boiling. Put the spice on top, and keep the jar covered with a plate till the pickle is cold. When quite cold, tie it down with bladder wetted with vinegar, and a piece of chamois leather over that. Preserved Green Walnuts.—The Walnuts should be full grown but not hard when gathered for preserving. Prick the Walnuts with a pin and soak them in cold water for two hours. Strain the water off the Walnuts, pour some fresh over them, and let them soak for four days, chang- ing the water every day, thus removing the bitterness. Put the Walnuts in a pan with some fresh water, and let them simmer till soft. Take the Walnuts out with a skimmer, put them in a jar of cold water, and let them stand for four days, changing the water as before. Boil some coarse brown sugar in some water to make a syrup, then strain it through a jelly-bag; boil it again till thick, then let it stand till nearly cold. Drain the water off the Walnuts, pour the syrup over them, and leave till the following day. Boil the syrup up every day for nine days, adding a little more sugar each time, and pouring it over the Walnuts when nearly cooled. Put some cinnamon and cloves in a little water and let them soak for twenty.four hours, then cut each clove into four pieces lengthwise, and the cinnamon into pieces about the same size. Drain the syrup off the Walnuts, boil it up again, then leave it till half cold. Stick four pieces of clove and four pieces of cinnamon into each Walnut, pour the syrup over them, and leave them for a day longer. The next day, drain the syrup, put it over the fire in a saucepan, and when on the point of boiling put in the Walnuts; let them boil up, then when they are getting soft move them off the fire. Make some bottles hot, fill them with the Walnuts, putting them in one by one, then cover with the syrup, and leave till cold. Cork the bottles, cover them with parchment, and tie down tightly. If the Walnuts are kept for any length of time, fresh syrup must be poured over them occasioually, as the fruit absorbs it. Walnut-and-Anchovy Sauce for Fish.—Take the Walnuts at the season for pickling, slice them into an earthenware pan, and between|every layer throw a small handful of salt; stir with a wooden stick every day for a fortnight, then strain the liquor through a coarse cloth, and let it stand to settle. Pour off the clear, and boil it with lib. of anchovies to each pint; skim it, and let it stand to cool; add 1 pint each of red port and best white vinegar to each pint of liquor, also Joz. of mace, cloves, and nutmeg, some ground mustard, horseradish, and shallot, or a clove of garlic, and boil up again. Strain off into bottles, and cork down for preservation. Walnut Ketchup.—(1) Put a hundred green Walnuts into a mortar and beat them till well bruised, then put them into a jar with 6oz. of chopped shallots, a head of garlic, Jib. of salt, and 2qts. of vinegar. Stir the contents of the jar twice a day fora fortnight, then strain off the vinegar, put it into a saucepan with three anchovies, 1 table-spoon - For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Walnuts—continued. ful of cloves, 2 table-spoonfuls of peppercorns, and Joz. of mace. Boil the vinegar for half-an-hour, then strain it off and leave till cold. Pour the vinegar into bottles, being careful not to get any of the sediment mixed up in it. Cork the bottles tightly, and keep them in a dry store- cupboard. (2) Put the Walnuts in a tub with plenty of common salt, and let them stand for a week, beating and mashing them well every day till the shells are soft and pulpy. Press the Walnuts well till all the liquor runs from them, then pour it into a saucepan, and boil it up, removing the scum as it rises. Put Jib. each of ginger and allspice, and 2oz. each of cloves and long pepper, into a mortar, and beat them. Put the mixture into the vinegar, and boil it for half an-hour. Leave the ketchup till cold, then stir it up well and bottle, taking care that an equal quantity of spice goes into each bottle. Cork and seal the bottles, and keep them in a cool dry store-cupboard. The ketchup will be ready for use in a year’s time. (3) Mash forty black Walnuts in a mortar, put them in a saucepan with lgall. of vinegar, and boil it till re- duced to 3qts. Strain the ketchup, season it to taste with spices, salt, and cloves of garlic, and leave till cool. Pour the ketchup into bottles, and cork down tightly with good corks. (4) Pound a hundred Walnuts in a mortar, put them in a jar with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of finely chopped shallots, 1 breakfast-cupful of chopped garlic, 4 breakfast-cupful of horseradish, 1 breakfast-cupful of bruised mustard seed, Jib. each of black pepper and allspice, and 2 table-spoon- fuls of salt. If liked, cloves, mace, sliced ginger, and nutmeg may be used. Pour in lgall. of vinegar, cork down tightly, and stand the jar in the sun for a week, shaking well every day. At the end of that time boil the ketchup for fifteen minutes, then leave it till nearly cool. Strain it, bottle, cork down tightly, and seal the bottles. (5) Bruise well a hundred and twenty young green Walnuts, and put them into a pan with lqt. of vinegar and fib. of salt; let them remain in this for a fortnight, stirring them every day. Then strain them through a cloth, squeezing them well, and set the liquor aside. Put the squeezed nuts back again into the pan, add to them J pint of vinegar, and let it stand all night. Next day strain the liquor through a cloth, squeezing the Walnuts well as before. Add the liquor to that which was set aside on the previous day, together with forty cloves, IJoz. of whole black pepper, Joz. of nutmeg, bruised or broken, Joz. of ginger, and 5 drachms of mace, put it over the fire, and let it boil for half-an-hour. Strain it then, and bottle. (6) Put three half sieves of green Walnut shells into a tub, add to them lib. or 141b. of salt, and stir well among them. Let this stand for six days, beating and mashing them frequently till the shells are quite soft and pulpy. Bank them up at one side of the tub, and raise the tub at that side so that the liquor may drain off to the other side. Take the liquor out, mash and bank up the Walnuts again, take away any liquor that runs from them, and continue to bank and mash as long as any liquor is to be obtained from them. The quantity of liquor will be about 3qts.; put this over the fire in an iron saucepan, and let it boil gently till scum ceases to rise, then add loz. each of long pepper and cloves, and 2oz. each of allspice and bruised ginger. Let the ketchup simmer for thirty minutes, then take it from the fire and let it cool. Bottle it then, and divide the spices equally among the bottles. Fill the bottles with the ketchup, cork them well, and seal. Keep them in a cool dry place for twelve months, and the ketchup will then be fit for use. (7) Scrape out all the white part of three or four hundred green Walnuts, bruise them in a large mortar to extract the juice, which strain through a cloth. Let the juice stand for twenty-four hours, then strain it again, measure, and for each breakfast-cupful allow 4 breakfast- cupful of vinegar, Jib. of anchovies, half a clove of garlic, a shallot, half a small onion, and a small quantity of horse- Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.