688 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ice., referred to, sec under their special heads V eal—continued. Broiled Veal Steak.—Well grease a gridiron, put the steak of Veal on it, and broil over a clear fire, turning it frequently. Finely chop four young onions, put them in a saucepan, with a little tomato ketchup, a little thyme, and loz. of butter; fry them for a few minutes, then pour in 1 teacupful of broth, and boil slowly for twenty minutes. When cooked and nicely browned, put the Veal steak on a hot dish, with a lump of butter on it. Stir 1 table-spoonful of Hour in the gravy, colour it with a little browning, pour in a few drops of wine, and stir over the fire till boiling fast. Pour the gravy over the Veal, and serve with a dish of spinach or sorrel. Cannelon of Veal.—Finely mince 21b. of cold roasted Veal and lib. of cold ham; mix well among it 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of powdered mace, 1 bare teaspoonful of finely-chopped lemon-peel, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir in then the beaten yolks of three eggs, J pint of good gravy, and 4oz. of sifted breadcrumbs; shape this into a thickish short roll with floured hands. Flour the outside, and put it in a well- greased baking-pan; lay a cover over it, and put it in the oven till smoking hot; then take off the cover from the tin and let the cannelon brown ; draw it to the door of the oven, and brush it over with beaten white of egg ; push it in again, and shut the door for a minute to let Fig. 937. Cannelon of Veal. it glaze. Put the cannelon carefully on a hot dish, garnish with three-cornered pieces of fried bread, potato croquettes, and quarters of lemon (see Fig. 937), pour over a rich brown gravy, and serve hot. Chump of Veal a la Bourgeoise.—Lard a chump of Veal with strips of bacon. Butter the inside of a stewpan, put in some slices of bacon and trimmings of Veal, put the chump over them, then add three or four leeks, onions, carrots, a few sprigs of parsley, and J pint of stock. Place the cover on the stewpan, with some live embers on it, and braise the contents over a slow fire. When cooked, drain the Veal and glaze it. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, boil it quickly till reduced to a glaze, then pour in J teacupful of Spanish sauce; boil it, pour it over the Veal, and serve. White wine and gravy coloured with a little browning may be used instead of the Spanish sauce if preferred. A lump of butter should be dissolved in the sauce before it is poured over the Veal. Chump of Veal a la Baube.—Remove the bone from the chump-end cut oft' a loin of Veal, and fill the cavity with forcemeat; tie it up, put it in a saucepan with the bone, a bunch of sweet herbs, one anchovy, one blade of mace, 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns, and 1 pint of Veal broth. Put some slices of bacon over the Veal, and cover with a sheet of paper. Keep the saucepan closed, and stew the contents gently for two hours. When cooked, take the bacon out, and glaze the Veal. Put the Veal on a hot dish, and serve it with a sauceboatful of mushroom sauce. Chump of Veal a la Nivernaise.— Bone a chump of Veal and tie it up to its original shape. Put the Veal into a stewpan with J pint of Veal stock, boil it till reduced to a glaze, and then pour in lqt. of mirepoix; when boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire and keep the contents simmering till the Veal is tender. Cut the ends off some small carrots and turn them to the shape of olives. Put the carrots in boiling water for five minutes to blanch them, then dre:n them, put them in a saucepan, cover with chicken broth, season with salt, pepper, and a Veal—continued. pinch of sugar, and boil the liquor till reduced to glaze. When cooked, glaze the meat, put it on a hot dish, garnish with the carrots, pour some reduced Spanish sauce over, and serve with a sauceboatful of half-glaze. Collared Breast of Veal.—(1) Make a forcemeat of grated ham, chopped oysters, chopped parsley, sifted breadcrumbs, a little grated or finely-chopped lemon-peel, and a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; mix all well together, and then mix in some well-beaten eggs according to the quantity of forcemeat. Bone a breast of Veal, spread the forcemeat thickly over it, roll it up, and bind into shape with tape; put the meat into boiling water, and let it boil slowly for three hours. Boil the bones with a bunch of sweet herbs, a little salt, some pepper, and an onion, letting them boil twenty minutes longer than the Veal. Before serving, strain it, put it back again over the fire in a saucepan with a piece of butter well rolled in flour, stir it till it boils, and boil for ten minutes; add to it the yolks of two eggs beaten up with 3 table-spoon- fuls of cream, stir well, and let it get quite hot, but do not let it boil after the cream and eggs are added. Par- boil a sweetbread, cut it into pieces, dip them in beaten egg, roll them in a paper of sifted breadcrumbs, and fry a light brown. Fry also some balls of the forcemeat. Take up the Veal, cut the tapes and remove them, lay the Veal on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and garnish with the fried pieces of sweetbread and the force- meat balls. (2) Trim off the outside skin, and bone a breast of Veal; beat it Hat, then brush it over with beaten yolk of egg; season the Veal with pounded mace, cloves, grated nutmeg, finely-chopped parsley, sweet herbs, pepper and salt, ami the finely-grated peel of half a lemon. Roll the Veal up, wrap it in a cloth, and tie it round. Put the Veal in a saucepan with plenty of boiling water, and boil it for two-hours-and-a-half. When cooked, take the Veal out, and drain and press it under a heavy weight till cold. Remove the cloth from the Veal, and put it in a sauce- pan with some strongly-salted water and £ pint of vinegar. Boil it up, turn the Veal and pickle into a dish, and leave it till cold. (3) Bone a breast of Veal, beat it Hat, and brush it over with beaten yolk of egg. Season some breadcrumbs with pounded anchovy, 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of finely- chopped parsley, a few sprigs of sweet marjoram, the thickly-shred peel of half a lemon, pepper ami salt, and a small quantity each of grated nutmeg and beaten mace. Mix these thoroughly, and then spread over the Veal. Roll the meat up tightly, bind it with tape, and wrap it in a cloth. Put it into a saucepan with a moderate- sized lump of salt and sufficient water to cover, and boil for two-hours-and-a half. When cooked, take the Veal out and hang it up; when well drained, put it in a pickle made with 1 pint of salted water and l pint of vinegar. (4) Take all the bones from a breast of Veal, and beat it flat. Spread over the inside a rich forcemeat mixed with beaten eggs; roll the meat up tight, bind it flrmly with tape, put it into a baking-dish with a little weak stock, and bake. Have ready a rich gravy, strained and thickened, and when the Veal is dished and the binding removed, pour it over. Serve with slices of lemon round, and, if desired, a few forcemeat balls. (5) Bone a breast of Veal. Put into a mortar eighteen oysters, 3oz. of finely-chopped suet, 2oz. of sifted bread- crumbs, a seasoning of thyme, marjoram, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and beat and mix them well together with the pestle; when beaten to a paste, spread it over the inside of the boned breast of Veal, roll it up tight, sew it firmly in a cloth, and boil for three hours. Serve it hot with white sauce. The dish the Veal is served on may he garnished with fried forcemeat balls. Collops of Veal d la Turque.—Cut some Veal into slices about Jin. thick, season them with salt and pepper, put them on a gridiron, and turn the meat frequently over a moderate charcoal fire till nicely browned. Put the slices of meat in a stewpan with two or three peeled cloves of garlic, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and a small quantity of