716 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads V eal—continued. Veal—continued. paste, and knead it, dipping the hands occasionally in warmed butter. Dust flour over the table, roll the paste to about Jin. in thickness, and cut it in halves. Mince lib. of raw Veal and Jib. of ham with two or three onions, and fry them in butter till nicely browned, seasoning them with salt and pepper and any other flavouring liked. Put table spoonfuls of the minced meat over one half of the paste, a short distance from each other. Moisten round each pile of mincemeat with a paste-brush dipped in water, then lay the other flat of paste over it, and press it round where the other one is moistened. Cut the paste out round the mincemeat. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and make it hot; then put in the fritters, and fry them till nicely browned on both sides. When cooked, drain them well, and arrange them in a pyramid on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Veal-and-Ham Patties.—Chop some cooked lean Veal, and mix with it half its quantity of ham. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till mixed ; then put in the chop- ped meat, a small quantity of cream, and an equal quantity of Veal stock, the juice of half a lemon, 1 table-spoonful of essence of ham, a little grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, cayenne pepper, and salt. Stir the above ingredients over a slow fire till well mixed and hot. Butter some patty- pans, line them with putt' paste, put a small piece of bread in each, put some covers of paste on the top, damping the edges and trimming them round, brush them over with a paste brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and bake them in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. When cooked, take the patties out of the oven, cut the covers off, take out the bread, and scoop out the inside paste. Fill the crusts with the Veal mixture, and put the covers on again. Put the patties on a folded napkin or orna- mental dish-paper on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Veal-and-Ham Pie.—(1) Cut the Veal into moderate sized pieces, and lard them with strips of bacon. Cut about half as much bacon as there is Veal into the same sized pieces, season them with chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and fry them in butter. Butter a pie- mould and line it with putt' paste, then line it with a Veal forcemeat made from the trimmings of the meat, &c. Fill the mould with alternate layers of Veal, ham, and forcemeat, raising it in a dome, and finishing off with forcemeat. Cover the pie with a flat of puff paste, moisten the edges, press them together, and raise them about fin. above the edge of the mould. Crimp the edges, put another thin layer of puff paste on the top, and brush it over with beaten yolk of egg. Make a hole in the top of the pie, sketch a pattern over it with a sharp pointed knife, tie a strip of buttered paper round the mould, allowing it to come a good inch above the pie, and bake it from three to four hours in a moderate oven. When cooked, pour some rich gravy in the pie through the hole at the top, and leave it till cold. Take the pie out of the mould, put it on an ornamental dish paper or folded napkin on a dish, garnish it with parsley, and serve. (2) Cut about 2lb. of Veal cutlets into small pieces, and season them well with salt and pepper. Cut lib. of raw ham into slices. Fill a dish with alternate layers of the Veal and ham, putting here and there a few hard boiled yolks of eggs and stewed mushrooms, and cover the top with a thick layer of sausage forcemeat. Moisten with 1 glass of water, and bake the pie in a moderate oven. Serve it either hot or cold. (3) Butter a pie-dish, and line it with a rich puff paste. Cut the Veal into small pieces, and about one-third of the quantity of ham or lean bacon. Put some chopped mush- rooms in a frying-pan with a sprig of parsley and a small lump of butter, and fry them for a few minutes; then dredge in some flour, pour in h pint of gravy and 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and stir it over the fire till boiling. Fill the prepared pie-dish with the Veal and ham and six hard-boiled eggs cut in slices, and pour in the gravy and mushrooms. Season the pie with pepper and salt, cover it with a flat of puff paste moisten - ing it and trimming it off at the edges ; make a hole in the top, ornament it with paste leaves, and bake it for about one-hour-and-a- uarter. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven, pour a little more gravy through the bole at the top, and serve it either hot or cold. (4) Line a raised pie-mould with a rich paste. Cut some Veal into small pieces, mix a little chopped ham with it, and season it with salt, pepper, and grated nut- meg. Put the meat into the mould, pour in a little gravy, cover the pie with a flat of paste, moisten and press the edges together, raising them above the mould, and decorate the top with leaves, &c., that have been cut out of paste. Bake the pie for one-hour-and-a-half in a slow oven. Boil 1 pint of stock till reduced to \ pint, adding 1 wineglassful of wine and sufficient gelatine to make a stiff jelly. When the pie is cooked, lift one of the ornaments at the top, to pour in the gravy, then put it on again, and leave the pie till cold. Take the mould off, put the pie on a folded napkin on a dish with a stand, garnish with sprigs of parsley (see Fig. 965), and serve. Veal Jelly.—Cut lib. of Veal into very thin slices, put a layer of them at the bottom of a jar, cover with thin slices of turnip, and repeat this until all is used up. Two turnips should be sufficient. Sprinkle in 1 pinch of salt, pour in 1 teacupful of water, cover the jar, set it in a saucepan with boiling water to half its height, and simmer gently for about four hours. Strain through a jelly-bag, and use either hot or cold, the latter for pre- ference. Veal Kebobs.—Peel some Spanish onions and garlic, and cut them in thin slices. Cut also some thin slices of Veal and pickled pork of the same size as the onion slices, but rather thinner. Season the slices of meat with pepper, salt, and turmeric, and string them on a skewer or skewers in alternate order: onion, garlic, veal, and pork, and so on till the skewers are filled or the meat and onions used up. Fry them in butter till they are brown, and serve garnished with plenty of fried parsley. Veal Loaf.—(1) Put 1 Jib. of Veal in a stewpan with a carrot, onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt, and sufficient water to cover it, and stew the Veal gently till tender. Ornament the interior of a mould with hard-boiled eggs, beetroot, and olives, all cut into different shapes, and stuck on with half-set aspic jelly. Leave the mould till the jelly has set. Drain the Veal when cooked, trim off all the fat, chop it finely, and mix 1 pint of liquid jelly with it. When the mince is nearly cold, turn it carefully into the decorated mould, and leave it till set. Turn the shape out of the mould on to a fancy dish, garnish it with parsley, and serve. (2) Trim off the outside of 6oz. of cold cooked Veal, mince the meat, and mix with it 1 table-spoonful of chopped raw bacon, a few shreds of ham, loz. of butter, and one beaten egg. Season the mixture with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and squeeze in a little lemon-juice. Shape