789 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utetisils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Wines—continued. of cinnamon, seven or eight cloves, ana 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns. Beat the whites of two eggs with their shells, put them in with the other ingredients, and stir them over the fire till boiling. Mix 1 A breakfast cupfuls of Madeira with the jelly, strain it several times till clear and bright through a jelly bag that has been wrung out of boiling water, pour the jelly into a mould, and pack it in ice till firm. When ready to serve, dip the mould in lukewarm water, wipe it, and turn the jelly out on to a fancy dish (see Fig. 1073). (2) Soak 2oz. of gelatine in A pint of cold water for three hours; add to it then the thinly.pared rind of half a lemon, the juice of one lemon, two peach-leaves, or a few drops of essence of bitter almonds, and Mb. of powdered white sugar ; cover it over, and let it stand for half-an- liour; pour ov er it then 1 pint of boiling water, stir it till the gelatine is quite dissolved, and then strain it. Add 1 pint of white Wine, and strain it again through a flannel bag without either squeezing or shaking the bag. Wet the inside of a mould with cold water, pour the jelly into it, let it stand in a cool place all night, and turn out next day. (3) Put nearly lAoz. of gelatine into 1 pint of cold water together with a bit of lemon-peel, and let it soak all night. Next day put into a pint measure U wine-glasses of brandy, the strained juice of four lemons, a small quantity of orange flavouring or spirit of punch, and the whites and shells of two eggs, beaten together; fill the measure up with raisin wine, turn it into a saucepan, add Jib. of caster sugar and the soaked gelatine, and boil gently till the scum separates ; then pass it through a jelly-bag. (4) Put 3oz. of gelatine into a porcelain bowl, cover with 1 pint of cold water, and let it soak for two or three hours, by which time it should be quite soft. Pour it into a saucepan, add lqt. of boiling water, the juice of two lemons, lib. of powdered loaf sugar, and A pint of sherry or Madeira Wine. When about to boil, strain it through a jelly-bag into a mould and let it remain until set. It may be flavoured with the juice of any fruit, and coloured or tinted with carmine, cochineal, saffron, red beet juice, or claret. Sometimes it is made with cherry brandy or any cordial instead of the Wine. (5) Stir Joz. of isinglass in 4 pint of hot water till dissolved, then mix in the thinly-pared rind and the strained juice of two oranges, the yolks of four eggs, and caster sugar to taste. Beat the above mixture well, then turn it into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire till on the point of boiling, but do not let it quite boil. Take the jelly off the fire, and leave it till partly cold. Rinse a mould out with cold water, pour in the jelly, and pack it in ice till set. Dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the jelly out on to a fancy dish, and serve. (6) Put lqt. of cold water into a saucepan with Jib. of granulated sugar; add 2oz. of gelatine in small pieces, and grate in the rind of a medium sized lemon, squeezing- in the juice as well. Mix well, and place the saucepan on a hot stove. Beat up in a basin the whites of two eggs, and stir them into the other ingredients; grate in 1 saltspoonful of nutmeg, and add six cloves and one bay- leaf, mixing well with a whisk for one minute. Have ready a jelly-bag tied on a jelly stand or two kitchen chairs. Stir the preparation, and when coming to the boil set it back to a cooler part of the stove to prevent it overflowing, and stir while boiling for six minutes. Place a vessel under the jelly bag, remove the pan from the fire, and pour the whole into the bag, immediately adding to it h pint of lieberfraumilch Wine. Let it drain into the vessel, return it to the bag, placing another vessel under- neath, and let it drain through for fully two hours. Have ready a quart jelly-mould, pour the jelly from the vessel into it, set it aside in a cool place for two hours, and afterwards pack it in ice to harden for two hours longer. Make a dish as cold as possible ; dip the mould lightly and carefully to near its edge in lukewarm water, take it up immediately, turn it out on to the dish, and send to table. Wine Ketchup.—Pour 1 pint of walnut or mushroom ketchup into a saucepan, add 4oz. of boned chopped Wines—continued. anchovies, ten shallots, loz. of scraped horseradish, and spice to taste ; simmer gently at the side of the fire for about fifteen minutes. Remove from the fire, let the liquor cool, mix in 1 pint each of red and white Wine, let it stand for seven or eight hours, drain, strain, and bottle for use. Wine Negus.—Put 2 teacupfuls of warm calf’s-foot jelly into a jar or jug with the peel of a lemon rubbed off with sugar, or the peel pounded in a mortar, also two thinly sliced lemons, and a seasoning off allspice, cinnamon, cloves, and mace; pour over lqt. of boiling water, cover securely, and let it stand for fifteen minutes. Now add 1 pint of boiling white Wine, sugar to sweeten, and grated nutmeg to flavour, and the negus is then ready for use. Wine Posset.—(1) Mix in a large jug 1 pint of rich thick cream, 4 wineglassfuls of Wine, 1 wineglassful of brandy, the strained juice of a lemon, and loaf sugar to taste. Let it stand for an hour or two, then whisk it well, and skim off the froth as it rises, placing it on a sieve. Put a little of the cream that runs through in each glass, and fill them up with the froth. Dredge a small quantity of coloured sugar on the top of each, and serve at once. (2) Put the finely-grated crumb of a penny stale French roll into a lined saucepan with lqt. of milk, and boil it gently until soft. Move the mixture from the fire, sweeten it to taste with caster sugar, and grate in half a nutmeg; beat it wrell with a wooden spoon until somewhat cooled, then turn it into a china bowl and stir in gradually 1 pint of Lisbon Wine. Leave the posset until quite cold, then serve it with small squares of toast and butter. Wine Roll.—-(1) Put a penny roll in Wine and let it soak till all the moisture is absorbed. Mask the roll with a Fig. 1074. Wine Roll. thick coating of apricot jelly, put it in a glass dish, pour 1 pint of Wine custard round it, and serve. The roll sprinkled over with small many-coloured sweets, as well as the jam or in place of it, makes a very pretty dish. Any otlier kind of jam may be used if preferred. See Fig. 1074. (2) Put a penny French roll into a basin, pour over it as much raisin Wine as it will absorb, and let it soak well. Sweeten 1 pint of thick cream with caster sugar, and flavour with lemon-juice. Put the roll in a glass dish, either whole or cut into slices, and pour the cream round it. Blanch a few sweet almonds, split them lengthwise, stick them in the roll, and serve. A nicely-flavourecl custard can be used in place of the cream, if more convenient. (3) Put three penny French rolls in a basin, pour over them as much raisin Wine as will cover them, and let them soak until they have absorbed all the moisture. Prepare a rich nicely flavoured custard and let it get cold; strew the rolls thickly with nonpareils, put them in a glass dish, pour the custard round, and serve. Wine Sauce.—(1) Put 2 table spoonfuls of sugar into a sauce- pan with 1 gill of water, and stir it over the fire till the sugar has dissolved. Put 1 table-spoonful of any kind of jam in the sweetened water, and mix it well ; then stir in 1 wineglassful of sherry and a squeeze of lemon-juice. The sauce is then ready for serving with whatever dish it is intended for. (2) Mince together one small blanched onion, three small mushrooms, and a few sprigs of parsley ; put them in a saucepan with about 2oz. of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir them over the fire for a few minutes, but do not brown them. Stir in with the above articles 1 pint of light Wine, dust in a small quantity of salt, pepper, and pounded mace, and let the sauce simmer gently by the side of the fire for half an-hour, stirring it