TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 766 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Whelks—continued. Whelks (sometimes spelt Wliilk) (Buccinum undatum) are found in abundance on most coasts. A large white- shelled kind known in the fish trade as Almond Whelks Fig. 1043. Whelk. are considered the best. They are sometimes, besides being plain boiled in salted water, used as follows : Whelk Salad.—Procure some small Whelks and boil them for two hours, changing the water twice. When cooked, drain and leave them till cold, then pick them out of their shells. Put the Whelks in a deep dish, pour over them 1 teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce and an equal quantity of oil and vinegar, season with salt and pepper, and let them stand for an hour. Prepare a' salad of chopped lettuce, cress, and endive, put in the Whelks and the dressing, strew a small quantity of chopped chives or onions over them, and serve. Small Whelks should always be used, as the large ones are tough and indigestible. Whelk Soup.—Poil 2 or 3 handfuls of thoroughly washed small Whelks in 2qts. of water until they can he readily removed from their shells. Take two large onions and stick them with cloves, a very small bunch of sweet herbs, some whole black pepper, a blade of mace, and a very hard crust, toasted brown. Strain the liquor through a cloth, add to this Iqt. more water, and boil the whole until it is reduced to a little more than half its original bulk. In the meantime, take the ^helks out of their shells, clean and mince up two or three anchovies, strain the soup into another saucepan, and put in the Whelks and anchovies. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of Horn with a little of the broth, stir in sufficient salt to taste, and boil quickly until the Hour lias thickened the soup. WHEY (Fr. Petit Lait; Ger. Molken; Ital. Siero; Sp. Suero).—The serum or liquid portion of milk, after the curd has been separated from it, generally for the purpose of making cheese. Dr. Henry Letlieby says, “although not highly nutritious, it still holds a little caseine in solution, as well as the sugar and saline matter of the milk. It is rarely used as food even by the poor, but it is given to pigs. In Switzerland, however, it is considered to have medicinal virtues, especially for the cure of chronic disorders of the abdominal organs, and the treatment, which is sometimes fashionable, goes by the name of ‘ cure de petit lait.’ There is a popular notion that the Whey of milk is sudorific ; hence we have our wine Whey, cream of tartar Whey, alum Whey, tamarind Whey, &c., when the milk has been curdled by these several substances.” Some special preparations of Whey will be found under Lemons, Oranges, Vinegar, Wine, &c. Whey powder, which is often used instead of rennet to coagulate the curds out of milk, is made by gently evaporating Whey to dry- ness, and then powdering it with about one-third of its weight of caster sugar. See Cheese, Cream, Curds, and Milk. WHIPPED CREAM.—See Cream. WHIPS.—See Chocolate, Cream, &c. WHISKS and WHISKING.—To execute the apparently simple but important culinary process of Whisking, considerable dexterity, and tools that are especially adapted to the purpose, are required. Under the heading of Eggs will be found some very ingenious machines for beating eggs, or mixing them with milk; Fig. 1044. Whisk for Whipping Cream. but these are not Whisks. For whipping cream a light Whisk may be used, such as would be represented by a small bundle of light twigs (see Fig. 1044), or a bunch of fine wire loops ; but for the more vigorous work required for sponge-cakes, meringues, batters, and other heavy liquids, a very strong Whisk is required, such as that shown in the Fig. 1045. Whisk for Sponge-cakes, Batters, &c. illustration (see Fig. 1045). In large wholesale confectionery establishments, machines, consisting of stout iron rods bent into loops, and made to move with great rapidity by hand or steam power, are used for Whisking and mixing sponge and other cakes; the principle is much the same, although the products are not so light and frothy as when Fig. 1046. Whisking-bowl. Whisked or whipped by hand. A round metal bowl, such as is used for beating eggs (see Fig. 1046) is the best kind of vessel for Whisking, and the action in every case should be smart and vigorous, producing a foam if possible. The term “whipping” more fully describes light Whisking, and is adopted by Continental confectioners. WHISKY.—This is literally described as a spirit, ob- tained from malt or grain, or from a mixture of these.