TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 768 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Whitebait—continued. that the fish themselves are imported. In a measure this may he accepted as a fact, for it is quite certain that those held in the highest esteem are caught in the river Thames between Gravesend and Blackwall. English Whitebait (see Fig. 1047) are said to be the young of the herring. Kettner writes, “ It was for a long time supposed that Whitebait, which came up the Thames as far as Blackwall, were the young of the fresh- water herring, the shad, which also comes thus far up the river. They were then proved to he quite distinct from the fry of the shad. It was next insisted that they were a distinct species of herring. It was afterwards pointed out that Whitebait have never been found with roe, and therefore they must be young. It is now declared that they are the infant progeny of the common herring, with all the manners of the parent fish, save this, that they travel up the Thames to haunts which their ancestors, if they were ever there, no longer seem to approve of.” The Whitebait of Italy is said to be the young of the anchovy and sardine. In Columbia (Canada) it is alleged to be the young of the flying-fish. The Norwegian Whitebait (bergylt) is mostly miniature rose-fish. The Whitebait of Canton, in China, is a young small transparent white fish not unlike the young of the smelt. Before submitting Whitebait to the cook it should be thoroughly washed in a washing-basket with a largish mesh. It must then be picked over carefully and all intruders taken out; amongst these will occasionally be found small flounders, gobies, perhaps a stray octopus, or some kind of shell-fish, especially small river mussels. Whitebait are at their best in July and the early part of the month of August; they should be very fresh, smelling quite sweet and pleasant. They can be cooked according to any of the following receipts: Devilled Whitebait.—Wash the fish, drain well on a sieve, dry them in a soft cloth, and then drop them on to a well-floured cloth, carefully rolling each little fish over in it, so that they are all nicely and evenly floured. Put them immediately into a frying-basket, and dip them into extremely hot boiling lard; bold it there a very short time, lift the basket out of tbe lard, and sprinkle the fish with black pepper and a little salt; some cooks dip them again into the boiling lard for a second, take them out, sprinkle them with cayenne pepper, and serve. Pried Whitebait.—(1) Wash the fish, drain well on a sieve, dry them in a soft cloth, and then drop them when quite dry on to a well floured cloth, carefully rolling each little fish over in it, so that they are all floured over evenly. Put them immediately into a frying basket, dip them into extremely hot boiling lard, hold it there till the fish is crisp, which it will be before it browns, take it out while still white, and serve as quickly as possible Fig. 1048. Fried Whitebait. on a warm napkin on a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley and quarters of lemon (see Fig. 1048). Serve with them cayenne, grated lemon-peel, and thin slices of brown bread - and bu t te r. (•2) Wash and pick the Whitebait carefully, and dry them lightly on a cloth. Put 1 teacupful of flour on a sheet of paper, place the fish on it, and toss them about till well covered. Put 31b. of lard into a stewpan and beat it till it reaches 400deg. by tbe fryometer. Put tbe Whitebait into a frying-basket, sift all the superfluous flour back on the paper, and plunge the basket into the fat for a minute. The fat must be as hot as possible not to burn the fish. When cooked, turn the fish on to a sheet Whitebait—continued. of paper to drain, then put them carefully on to a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with points of lemon, and serve them with a dish of brown bread-and-butter. The Whitebait should be handled as little as possible, and served while very hot. Whitebait Omelet a la Napolitaine.—Wash and dry on a cloth about 41b. of Whitebait, then put them on ice, while the following batter is being prepared. Beat seven eggs in a basin, season them with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, and whisk them till well frothed. Sprinkle the fish with salt and pepper, and mix them in the batter. Put lib. of butter into a frying-pan, warm it, pour in the beaten eggs and fish, stir the omelet lightly over the fire with a fork till cooked on one side, then turn it quickly over on to the other side, adding more butter if required, and finish cooking it. When cooked, slip the omelet on to a hot round dish, without folding it over, and serve. Whitebait Salad.—Thoroughly clean the required quantity of Whitebait, rub them over with flour, and brown them in butter. When cooked, drain the fish and leave them till cold. Put a border of lettuce-leaves on a dish, and on that place groups of watercress; chop some hard-boiled eggs and put some between each group of watercress, then arrange round a circle of sliced beetroot. Pile the White- bait in tbe centre of tbe disli. Serve the salad with a sauceboatful of mayonnaise dressing. These little fish are very delicate, and require careful treatment in the cooking. The best way is to put them into a wire frying-basket, and plunge it into boiling fat; directly they are browned, take them out and drain them well. Whitebait Soup.—Finely shred one onion and the white part of a leek, put them into a stewpan with a small quantity of butter, and fry them without allowing them to brown. Finely shred, as for julienne, the red part of two tender carrots, a few mushrooms, and a piece of celery-root, put them in with the onion and leek, and stir them over the fire till their moisture has reduced. Pour 2qts. or 3qts. of rich broth over the vegetables, boil it up, then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for half-an hour. Wash l|lb. of Whitebait and drain them on a cloth, put them into the soup, place the lid on the stewpan, and move it to the farthest corner of the stove away from the fire. In six minutes’ time, turn the soup into a tureen, and serve. WHITE CAKE.—See Cakes. WHITEFISH.—Another name for this fish is Silver Salmon, to which race it is considered to belong. White- fish are caught in great quantities in the lakes and rivers of Scotland ; but the largest kind of all is caught in the colder lakes of North America. They may be cooked in a variety of ways, the following being a favourite American receipt: Baked Fillets of Whitefish.—Scale some large White- fish, split them, take out the backbone, season tbe fillets with salt and pepper, and dip them in beaten egg, then in breadcrumbs, and again in beaten egg. Put a lump of fresh lard in a baking-dish, make it hot, then put in the fillets. Bake the fish in the oven for twenty minutes, until they are lightly coloured. When cooked, drain the grease off the fillets, place them on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with potatoes and a sauceboatful of parsley sauce. WHITE POT .—See Devonshire White Pot. WHITE PUDDINGS (Fr. Boudins Blancs; Ger. Weiszen-Wurste).—The Continental White Puddings differ not only from the British black puddings in the ingredients used, but also, in some cases, in being made in long coils (see Fig. 1049), as will be seen by the following receipts: (1) Chop half-a-dozen small onions into small cubes, put them in a saucepan with a little lard, and cook them until done. Finely chop 3oz. or 4oz. of pork-fat and the flesh of a cold roasted fowl. Put the combined weight of