778 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces. &c., referred to, see under their special heads Wines—continued. off in their taste, as the advancing ages promoted their civilisation. On the contrary, statistics go far to prove that if Wine could be produced as cheaply in this country as in France or Italy, the consumption of it would in a great measure take the place of beer; in which case the average British consumption per head would exceed that of any other country. As it is, the average Wine- consumption in England has increased during the past few years with giant strides, due, perhaps, to the greater wealth of the people, or to the less costly price of the supplies—increase of numbers is not sufficient to account for the development. When we come to consider that a very trifling difference in the mode of production may produce a different quality of Wine, and that each vintage of Wine varies in itself, it is not surprising that Wine nomenclature is as complicated and confusing as the dicta of the Delphi Oracle. Spon informs us in an article on Wines that “the composition and properties of different Wines are influenced by a vast number of conditions and circumstances. The climate of the country, the nature of the season, the soil in which the vines are grown, the variety of grape, the mode of culture, the time of gathering, the treatment of the gathered fruit, the mode of fermenting the must, the temperature and length of time of preservation,—all these, and numerous considerations of minor importance, have a direct in- fluence upon the composition and quality of Wine.” Little or nothing therefore can be gathered from the name of a Wine, no evidence of its quality can be relied upon from that to guide the selection; but noted Wine- producers are not slow to assist Wine-drinkers in making a choice according to their desires, by classifying the Wines and maintaining their supplies at a uniform flavour and bouquet. There can be no lack of reason then in adopting for this purpose the same classification as used by the most noted Wine-producers of France. We will take as a basis an official notice recently issued by the French Director-General of Customs, to the effect that no liquors are to be classed as “ Wines ” which “ are not the pure juice of the fresh grape.” All those inferior beverages known to the French people as “ Yins de Com- position,” “Les Piquettes Alcoolisees,” “ Vins Doublees,” and “ Vins de Marc ” are to be excluded from the category of Wines. Some of these are merely Wine diluted with water, sugar added, and re-fermented; or water with sugar poured over Wine lees, and fermented; or Wines made up in different ways with various “ compositions.” This edict should be protective in the highest degree; but unfortunately it is not so strictly enforced concerning Wines for exportation, especially to England, conse- quently we are apt to get a liberal allowance of “compositions ” sold to us as the pur£article. Wines of a “ composite ” character are sold largely in this country, either adulterated or “substituted” here during the process of bottling, or before it leaves the coast of France. Sometimes it is to be feared that it suffers at both ends of the journey, and in many cases Wines named after the finest productions of France are little better than Wines from the juices of British-grown fruits, “toned” and “ blended ” to suit the customer’s palate. The foregoing remarks concerning Wine adulteration refer chiefly to cheap Wines ; but the very best are occa- sionally tampered with in the matter of colouring, sweetening, brandying, &c. The Wines of different countries vary greatly, depending chiefly upon soil and climate; for grapes grown in one country will produce a Wine that differs materially from that produced from the same kind of grapes grown in another country. Indeed, it is probable that of the great number of variously named vines, each producing a different charactered grape, all originated from one stock, Wines—continued. and are but the results of skilful or accidental cultivation. In pursuance of this theory the following may be quoted from a modern popular writer on the subject: “ Thus it happens that one vineyard, perhaps separated from the other by merely a few stakes, and without particular difference of soil, culture, or aspect, may produce a far superior Wine (from the same kind of grapes) to its neigh- bour.” Sir Emmerson Tennant informs us that: "The finest-known Wines are the produce of soils the combina- tion and proportions of whose ingredients are extremely rare and exceptional; and co-operating with these, they require the agency of peculiar degrees of light, moisture, and heat. The richest Wines of France, Italy, Hungary, Madeira, and Teneriffe are grown on the sites of extinct volcanoes.” In the vineyards of Medoc, near Bordeaux, where the finest Wines in the world are produced, the vines are of stunted growth, rarely rising above 2ft. from the ground, and producing grapes not unlike over-ripe black currants. It is rather opposed to the romantic notions of the uninitiated that these grapes, known as “ Cabernet,” produce the famous St. Julien, Chateau Margaux, and Lafite. Surely such Wines should be from the juice of large luscious grapes that grow in swelling bunches on a loftily-spreading vine ! “Let us now direct our attention,” writes Mi-. William Terrington, “ to the glorious vintage-season, the annual festival of Medoc—October, ‘ the Wine-montli ’ as it is called—when the ruby tears of the grape are made into the most delicious beverage—a Wine destined to find a welcome at the halls and palaces of wealthy epicures in various countries. For weeks previously, the weather is anxiously watched from day to day; for upon a con- tinuance of weeks of fine weather the savour and bouquet of the Wine essentially depend. Warmed by the glare of an unclouded sun, tempered by mild westerly winds, and moistened by dews, the grapes ripen and attain their exquisite flavour. When all is ready for the gathering, every one is astir. The contents of the vehicles which come loaded from the vineyard are no sooner deposited in the cuvier, or Wine-press, than the treaders jump in and proceed to stamp out the juice, standing in it almost up to their knees. “ The press is supplied with holes in the side near the bottom, through which the juice runs out, and passing through a sieve is strained from the husks into vessels below. The treaders continue thus employed till all the juice has passed through into the vessels below. It takes nearly an hour to tread out all the juice from a good- sized cuvier. The juice is then emptied from the receiving vessels into large vats, and the residue remaining in the cuvier is added to the juice in the vats. When these are sufficiently full, the fermentation proceeds; and so powerful is the emanation of car- bonic-acid gas, that no one can enter farther than the doorway. There the listener may hear strange bub- blings solemnly echoing in the cool and dark hall, which proclaim that a great change is taking place (see Fermentation)—that these vats of mawkish, sweet juice are being converted into noble and generous Wine. There is something wonderful in this mysterious change. Nature will have no intrusion during her mystic opera- tions. The atmosphere around and near the vats would be death to any who should venture near, fenced in as the vats are during the grand transmutation by a halo of stifling carbonic gas.” As fermentation proceeds, the fruit rises to the top of the must, forming a thick crust or “ head,” which is broken up and stirred into the body of the Wine at least three times a day, lest it turn sour by contact with the air, and thus affect the lot. After fermentation has subsided, the Wine is drawn off into clean casks and clarified. Although the fermentation of the Wine is a purely