800 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <f-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Yams—continued. lievbs. Cut Jib. of lean bacon into small squares, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry until nicely browned. Mix in the mashed Yam, and stir the whole over the fire until set, then leave till nicely browned on both sides. Fold the omelet over and serve. Yam Pie.—Peel some moderate-sized Yams and cut them into thin slices. Butter the edges of a large pie-dish and line it with a good crust. Out a loin of mutton into chops, and trim off the bones and some of the fat. Cut three sheep’s kidneys into slices, and a cow-heel into small pieces. Put these ingredients, without the slices of Yam, into the pie-dish, mixing with them some chopped mush- rooms, bearded oysters, a sliced onion, and seasoning to taste. Moisten with a small quantity of water and cover with a thick layer of the sliced Yams. Next cover the pie with a thin flat of paste, moisten and press the edges together, trimming the paste off neatly, and make a hole in the centre. Cover the pie with a sheet of paper and bake it in a moderate oven. Stew the bones of the mutton and cow-heel with the trimmings of mushrooms and oysters in 1 pint of water, until all the goodness is extracted, then strain the liquor and keep it hot. When the pie is cooked, pour the gravy in with a funnel through the hole at the top, and serve hot. Yam Puree.—-Peel and wash a sufficient quantity of Yams, and boil them until tender; drain them and rub them through a fine hair sieve. Put a moderate-sized lump of butter into a stewpan over the fire, and when it has dis- solved, stir in the mash with sufficient milk and white stock mixed in equal quantities to bring it to the con- sistency of cream. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and continue stirring over the fire with a wooilen spoon until boiling. Serve the puree on a hot dish. Yam Rissoles.—Mash some cold boiled Yams with a lump of butter and two or three well beaten eggs, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Divide the mixture into small pieces and mould them into egg-shaped balls. Roll them in grated breadcrumbs and beaten egg, then bread- crumb them again. Fry the rissoles in boiling fat- until equally browned, drain them for a minute on a sheet of kitchen paper in front of the fire, pile them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Yam Salad.—Cut some cold boiled Yams into nice slices. Rub the inside of a salad-bowl over with garlic, and arrange the slices of Yams in it. Mix 4 table-spoonfuls of salad oil with H table-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, season it with salt and pepper, and pour it over the slices of Yam. Chop and mix together, in small quantities, some chervil, tarragon, mint, and parsley, strew them over the salad, and serve. Yam Sautes.—Cut some cold boiled Yams into slices. Melt a moderate-sized piece of butter in a frying-pan, put in the slices of Yam, dust them over with salt and pepper, add finely-chopped parsley, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes until they are a golden brown. Drain the slices, turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. Yam Snow.—Well wash some Yams and boil them in their skins. When tender, drain and peel them, and rub them through a coarse sieve on to a hot dish. Serve immediately. Yam Souffle.—(1) Thoroughly wash five or six medium- sized Yams, and bake them in a quick oven for three- quarters-of-an hour. Take them out and cut them into halves lengthwise. Scrape out all the pulp into a hot basin, and mix it with a teacupful of milk, the whites of two eggs, . loz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste. Fill the half-skins with this mixture, brash them over thickly with beaten white of egg, and bake in a moderate oven until lightly browned on the top. Put them on a hot dish, and serve. (2) Boil two moderate-sized Yams, and when soft, take off the skins, and pass them through a fine wire sieve. Beat this up with the yolks of four eggs, sweeten to taste with white sugar, and flavour with essence of vanilla. Yams—continued. Whisk the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly hi with the above mixture. Turn it into a buttered souffle mould, and bake for twenty minutes. When the souffle is cooked, pin a folded napkin round the tin, and serve. Yam Soup.—-Boil ljlb. of Yams, and when cooked, take off the skins, and pass the Yams through a fine wire sieve. Melt loz. of butter in a stewpan, mix in a table-spoonful of arrowroot or cornflour, and stir it over the fire until well browned. Next put in the Yam pulp with as much nicely-flavoured stock as will make 2qts. of soup, and continue stirring over the fire until boiling. Turn the soup into a tureen, and serve it with sippets of toast. Yam Straws.—Peel and wash lib. of Yams, and cut them into slices about Jin. thick. Put them into a saucepan with plenty of boiling salted water, and boil until tender. Drain the slices in a colander until dry, dust them over with salt and pepper, then press them through the colander with a vegetable masher on to a hot dish, moving the colander backwards and forwards so that the pulp lays on the dish in long rows. When all the Yams have been pressed through, wipe the edge of the dish with a cloth, place it in the oven for two or three minutes, then serve. Yam Timbale.—Bake 21b. of Yams, and when cooked, scrape out the pulp, which put into a mortar with 6oz. of crushed loaf sugar, 4oz. of butter, 4oz. of powdered macaroons, and a small quantity of salt; pound these ingredients well, then mix with them the beaten yolks of six eggs, the whites of two, loz. of finely-chopped candied orange-flowers, and a teacupful of whipped cream. Butter a timbale mould, line it with puff paste, fill it with the mixture, and bake for half-an-hour. When cooked, turn the timbale out of the mould on to a dish, and serve immediately. Yam Roll.—Boil 21b. of Yams, and when cooked, drain them. Put them into a mortar and pound to a pulp, mixing in gradually 4 wineglassful of white wine and a small quantity each of grated nutmeg and beaten mace. Next mix in well the yolks of two eggs and 1 table- spoonful of warmed butter. Strew some grated bread- crumbs over a paste board, turn the mixture on to it, form it into a roll, coating it with the breadcrumbs, put it into a buttered baking-dish, and bake in a slow oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Make a sauce as follows: Beat the yolk of an egg up with 1 teacupful of white wine, loz. of caster sugar, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put the basin in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir until the sauce is thick. Turn the roll on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. YARMOUTH BLOATERS.—Nee Bloaters. YEAST (Fr. Ferment; Ger. Giisclit; Ital. and Sp. Fermento).—Before the introduction of baking- powder, pastrycooks and bread-bakers were at the mercy of the brewers, whose “ barm” was at no time free from incidental flavours or impurities, acquired by the careless mode of its collection and storing. In other words, brewers’ Yeast has always been, and now is, quite unfit for bread- or pastry-making, and thus as a judicious measure, refuge was taken in the numerous baking-powders that have been introduced to the market. Of some of these powders the least said the better (see Baking-powders); but even the very best is inferior to Yeast, for the sole reason that the effervescence producing the carbonic acid gas, which forms the leaven, forms at the same time a powerful salt—tartrate of potass or soda. When leavening could not be obtained by these means, bakers have used a volatile salt (ammonia) or bicarbonate of soda in such quantities that it would act upon the fat used in making the pastry and by saponification render it brittle and the pastry “ short.” Here, again, the ammonia or soda remains in the paste to be devoured with it. It may be argued that Yeast also remains in the bread i to be devoured with it; but it must also be remembered