682 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal —continued. ten minutes; then take it out and put it in cold water to cool, and afterwards wipe it dry, and put it in a cold store. The joints into which a butcher cuts a calf are shown in Fig. 930. The first idea is to cut off the head and quarter the carcase. The hind-quarter is cut up into the knuckle (1), fillet (2), loin with its chump (3), and best end (4), con- taining the kidney and kidney-fat. In the fore-quarter is the breast with its best end (5), and brisket (6), this latter containing the sweetbread. The neck with its best end (7), and scrag (8), the shoulder or oyster (9), fore-knuckle (10), and lastly the head (11), which is described under Calf. Of all these parts the most economical is the leg; its meat is solid and substantial. The fillet should be weighed without the bone, and as it takes stuffing well it is a favourite joint. The shoulder is rather coarser than the leg, and is not so economical, having a large knuckle and blade-bone. The loin is by far the most delicate eating, and contains the kidney-fat, which should be protected in roasting by covering with greased paper. The breast stews or boils well, and contains the tendons or cartilages of the ribs, which are esteemed a delicacy. The part called by French cooks the noix, is a round piece of tender muscle cut out of the fillet, and situated on the inner side of the leg. It is taken out by pushing it through the slice of fillet, and dissecting it off the outside skin. Sometimes the whole cushion is called the noix. Aspic of Veal.—Bone a shoulder of Veal and truss it to an oval shape, fastening it with small skewers. Roll some thin slices of fat bacon and raw lean ham, making them as small as possible, and season with salt and pepper. Push some holes in the Veal with a pointed stick, then lard it with the ham and bacon in alternate order. Cover the bottom of a deep stewpan with rashers of bacon, then put in two calf’s feet cut up, and a few slices of carrot and onion. Put in the Veal, dust it over with salt, white pepper, and a very small quantity of cayenne pepper, pour in 1 pint of stock, \ pint of white wine, and 1 teacupful of vinegar. Put the lid on the pan, and cook the contents slowly in the oven or at the side of the fire for three hours. When the meat is nicely browned, take the lid off the pan, and leave it for about ten minutes; then take the meat out and leave it till cold. Pass the cooking liquor through a fine hair sieve, skim off all the fat, and make it of a deep colour with browning or beetroot juice. When quite cold, take the bindings off the meat. Skim off what fat may have risen to the top of the jelly, warm part of it, and pour it over the meat with a spoon. Leave the meat until the jelly has V eal—continued. set on it, then place it on a dish, garnish with the remainder of the jelly cut up into rocky pieces, and serve. Aspic of Veal with Salad.—Finely mince some cold Veal with a third of its quantity of cold cooked bacon and a small quantity of cooked tongue; mix them together, and season to taste. Pour a thin layer of liquid aspic jelly in a cylinder-mould, and when it has set put in the mince with sufficient liquid jelly to fill up the mould, then pack it in ice till firmly set. Meanwhile wash and cut into shreds some nice crisp lettuces, endive, and garden cress, and mix together with chopped tarragon, chives, and chervil in moderate quantities. Prepare a salad dressing with oil and vinegar, allowing two parts of the former to one part of the latter; season with salt and pepper, and stir it in with the salad mixture. When ready, dip the mould with the Veal and jelly quickly into hot water, wipe it, and turn the contents out on to a pain-vert that has been placed on a round dish with a stand. Pile the salad high in the hollow left by the cylinder, put a few small diamonds of truffles on the top of the jelly, garnish the base of the pain-vert with chopped aspic jelly (see Fig. 931), and serve. Attereaux of Veal and Ham.—-Cut into slices |in. thick some cold cooked Veal and lean ham. Cut these into fiat squares about lin. wide each way. String them on small steel or silver skewers, arranging the ham and Veal alter- Fig. 932. Attereaux op Veal and Ham. nately (see Fig. 932), commencing with a Veal square and ending with a Veal square. Dip the attereaux in egg, roll them in breadcrumbs, and fry for a few minutes. Take them out, and arrange in a dish on a folded nap- kin. Garnish with sprigs of fried parsley, and serve as hot as possible. They are held in the hand by means of a table napkin, and the pieces are taken off the skewer with a fork to be eaten. Baked Leg of Veal with Cream Sauce.—(1) Put a small leg of Veal in a rather deep baking-dish; melt a lump of butter, pour it over the Veal, and roast in a slack oven. Turn the meat occasionally, and baste it well. When nearly cooked, dust over with a little flour and salt, pour \ pint of cream over it, and finish cooking, basting from time to time, and keeping the oven slack. When done, drain the leg, put it on a hot dish, and arrange a ruffle round the knuckle bone. Pour the cream in a small saucepan, mix a little melted glaze with it, and boil till slightly reduced. Add two or three drops of vinegar, then pour the sauce over the meat, 'and serve. Baked Loin of Veal with Cream Sauce.—Remove all the bone from a loin of Veal, keeping the flap short, and truss it. Put the loin in a deep baking-dish with a lump of butter, and roast in the oven, keeping it well basted. When cooked, trim the Veal to a square shape, then cut it carefully across in thin slices. Pile the slices on a dish, alternating each layer with a little finely-chopped truffle, and building it in such a way as to resemble its former shape. Boil some bechamel sauce till stiffly reduced, then mix the beaten white of an egg with it. Mask the loin with the sauce, cover it with grated Parmesan cheese, pour a little warmed butter over it, and glaze under a salamander. Garnish the loin with potato croquettes, and serve with a sauceboatful of half-glaze. Baked Veal Chops.—Cut off some chops and beat them with a rolling-pin until they are quite tender, then put them into a pan and cover with water. Put the lid on the pan and simmer the contents gently until tender; when nearly done, dust over a little salt and pepper. Take them from the pan and wipe with a cloth ; cover with butter first and then with beaten egg, and sprinkle over some sifted breadcrumbs. Put them on a baking-dish,