TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 72] VOL. II. Veal—continued. roast Veal and two hard-boiled eggs, and mix them with the potatoes. Beat the yolk of an egg, stir it in with the above ingredients, then add the well-whisked white. Divide the above mixture into small portions, and mould them into balls. Brush the balls over with beaten yolk of egg, put them in a Dutch oven, and brown them in front of a clear fire. When cooked, put the balls on a folded table-napkin or ornamental dish-paper, garnish them with parsley, and serve. (2) Boil two eggs hard and chop them fine ; mix with them fib. of mashed potatoes, a seasoning of chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, and some finely- minced cold chicken or Veal, and stir them well together; then mix them to a paste with the beaten yolk of an egg, and the white beaten separately to a stiff froth and stirred in afterwards. Make the paste into balls, brush them over with the beaten yolk of an egg, roll them in a paper of breadcrumbs, and brown them in a Dutch oven before the fire. Veal-and-Fotato Salad.—Cut into small pieces an equal quantity of cold cooked Veal and boiled potatoes, and put them in a salad-bowl with a little chopped celery. Mix together J teacupful of salad-oil and J teacupful of vinegar, and season it with a small quantity of pepper, salt, and mustard. Pour the dressing over the salad, and serve. Veal Pudding.—Cut some lean Veal into small thin squares, put them in a frying-pan with three or four rashers of bacon and a little clarified butter, add a little thyme, and dust in a little pepper and salt. Fry the Veal for fifteen minutes, then pour in h teacupful of water, and boil it; then take the pan off the fire, and leave the Veal till cool. Make a good suet-crust, and line a buttered pudding-basin until it, put in the Veal and ham, and pour in the gravy. Cover the pudding with a flat of crust, moistening and pressing the edges together, then tie the basin in a cloth, put it in a saucepan of boiling water, and keep it boiling for an hour. When cooked, untie the cloth, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a dish, and serve. Veal Ragoflt.—(1) Cut some cutlets from a cold roasted fillet, loin, or neck of Veal, flour them, and fry them a light brown in boiling butter or dripping, then take them from the pan. Put 1 pint of boiling water or stock into the frying-pan, and let it boil up for one minute. Put into a saucepan over the fire about loz. of butter, and let it melt while the gravy from the frying-pan is strained. When the butter is melted, add to it as much flour as will dry it up, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes; add to it by degrees the strained gravy from the frying-pan, and let it boil for ten minutes; add to it 2 table-spoonfuls of wine or mushroom ketchup, pepper and salt to taste, and a little mace. Put the meat into a stewpan, strain this gravy over it, and let it simmer very gently till the meat is quite warmed through. A few slices of cold boiled bacon may be warmed up at the same time in the gravy with the meat. (2) Cut about 31b. of Veal into small pieces. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan with 3 table spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire till smooth and brown; then put in the meat, and fry it till well browned. Put a bunch of sweet herbs in with the meat, and pour in lqt. of water. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep the liquor simmering. Cut a large turnip into small cubes, put them in a frying-pan with one large sliced onion and Jib. of butter, and fry them till nicely browned; then put them in with the meat, season with salt and pepper, and let it simmer two-hours and-a half longer. Put some plain boiled rice or macaroni on a hot dish, turn the ragout on to it, and serve it while very hot. Veal Ragoflt a la Chef de Cuisine.—Cut some slices off the leg of Veal, trim them, beat them lightly, and dip them in beaten yolk of egg. Mix a small quantity of minced Veal, 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped beef-suet, and half a dozen chopped oysters, seasoning with powdered mace, cloves, and nutmeg, and a little pepper and salt. V eal—continued. Put a layer of the forcemeat over each of the slices, roll them up, tie them with twine, fix them on the spit, and roast them in front of a clear fire. Mix a beaten egg with the forcemeat, divide it into small portions, and mould them into little balls. Put a lump of butter into a frying-pan, and melt it; then put in the forcemeat balls, and fry them till lightly and equally brow-ned. Put 1 oz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir them over the fire till well mixed but not browned, then pour in £ pint of gravy and 1 wineglassful of white wine, add one anchovy and one shallot, and continue stirring it over the fire until boiling. When cooked, cut the string oft' the rolls of Veal, put them on a hot dish with the forcemeat balls, pour the sauce over them, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. Veal Ragoflt a la Turque.—Cut some loin of Veal into small pieces, put them into an earthenware stewpan, with three sliced onions, three heads of garlic, a small quantity of cumin, salt and pepper, and \ breakfast-cupful of vinegar. Put the lid on the pan, lute it round the edges with flour-and-water paste so that no steam shall escape, put it at the side of the fire, and let the contents cook gently from three to four hours. When the meat is tender, turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve. Veal Rissoles.—Finely mince 111), of Veal and Jib. of suet. Soak 21b. of breadcrumbs in a little milk till soft, mix them with the Veal and suet, season with a little pounded mace, pepper, and salt, and bind with the beaten yolks of one or two eggs. Mould the mixture into small balls, brush them over with clarified butter, and cover them thickly with breadcrumbs. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and melt it; then put in the rissoles, and fry Fig. 968. Veai. Rissoles. them till nicely brow-ned all over. Drain the rissoles, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley (see Fig. 968), and serve them with a sauceboatful of rich brown gravy. Veal Rolls.—(1) Take some rather thin Veal cutlets with- out bone or fat, score and chop them on one side a little, and rub the side that has been chopped and cut with the beaten yolk of an egg. Spread a layer of Veal forcemeat over them, roll each one up tight, bind it firmly with fine twine, brush them over with the beaten yolk of egg, roll them in a paper of breadcrumbs, lay them in a buttered pie-vlish, put them into a hot oven, and bake for half-an- liour. Pour over them some good brown gravy with some pickled mushrooms boiled in it, and serve hot. (2) Cut either fresh or previously cooked Veal into very thin slices. Mix with some grated breadcrumb in small quantities some chopped suet, grated ham, finely-minced parsley and shallot, and a few stewed and minced mush- rooms. Season the mixture with salt and pepper, also a small quantity of pounded mace, and spread it over the slices of Veal. Roll the slices up and tie them tightly round with twine. Lay the rolls side by side in a stew-- pan, moisten to height with gravy ami a couple of wdneglass- fuls of sherry, and stew them very gently until tender. V hen cooked, lay the rolls on a hot dish, skim and pour their cooking-sauce over them, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Veal Sandwiches.—Chop some cold roast Veal, and put it in a mortar with some salt, pepper, and a small quantity of tarragon vinegar. Cut some hard-boiled eggs into slices, remove the yolks, being careful not to break the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fee., referred to, see under their special heads 3 A