705 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. V eal—continued. Stewed Loin of Veal.—The chump end of a loin of Veal is the best part to stew. Put it when well floured into a saucepan with a little butter that has been browned over the fire, and brown the Veal in it; when a good colour, pour in enough Veal broth to half cover it, put in two carrots cut in pieces, an onion, a little parsley, and a small bunch of sweet herbs, and stew for two-hours- and-a-half. Turn it when half done, and when quite done, take it out. Thicken the broth, season it, pour over the Veal, and serve. Stewed Neck of Veal.—Trim a neck of Veal, soak it in tepid water for a short time, then put it for ten minutes in boiling water. Put |lb. of butter in a stewpan with 2oz. of flour, and stir it over the fire till well mixed ; then put in the Veal, two or three onions, carrots and parsnips, a bunch of parsley, a clove of garlic, two cloves, a little salt and pepper, and moisten it with a little water. Cook the meat gently till tender, then take it out and put it on a hot dish. Boil the cooking liquor till reduced to a creamy thickness, then strain it through a silk or fine hair sieve. Mix 1 table spoonful of chopped gherkins and 1 teaspoonful of vinegar with the sauce, and serve it in a sauceboat with the Veal. Stewed Noix of Veal.—Saw the knuckle off a leg of Veal, lay the fillet on the table, cut through the bone in the centre under the udder until the skin is cut through, then take out the bone, and lay out the meat. There will be separate pieces of meat, the largest of which is the noix. Cut it out by pressing the hand upon it, and then with a sharp knife cut down close to the skin, separa- ting it from the skin until it comes to the udder; then take the piece of meat out, lay it on the table, the best side down, and beat it well. Trim the noix neatly and lard it with thin strips of fat bacon. Cut off the udder, and secure it to the side of the noix. Line a flat stewpan with pieces of bacon anil two sliced onions, put in the Veal, with a bunch of sweet herbs and two bay- leaves, and pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of clear broth. Put the stewpan in a moderate oven, and cook the contents for three hours, basting the meat occasionally with some of its own cooking liquor. Should all the moisture become absorbed, a small quantity of water may be added. When cooked, take the Veal out of the stewpan, glaze it, and brown it lightly over with a salamander. Lay it on a hot dish and keep it hot while the sauce is being prepared. Strain the cooking gravy through a fine hair sieve into a small saucepan, season it with pepper, and boil it up. Then pour the gravy over the noix, and serve. Stewed Noix of Veal with Mushrooms.—Steep the noix and blanch them. Cut them into oval-shaped pieces, put them in a stewpan with sufficient broth and mirepoix to cover them, and let them simmer gently till cooked. Drain the noix and press them between two plates tili cold. Skim the fat off the cooking liquor, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and boil it till reduced to a thick consistency. Trim off any meat that may adhere to the noix, put them in the sauce, and warm them again. Glaze them, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish” fill the centre with sliced mushrooms that have been mixed with a little German sauce, and serve them with a sauce- boatful of the same. Or the noix may be garnished with sliced truffles, and served with a sauceboatful of Madeira sauce. Stewed Tendons of Veal with Chestnut Puree.—Cut the tendons into oyster shapes, steep them in cold water to disgorge their blood, and when very white blanch them well and leave them till cold. Trim the tendons to a nice shape, put them in a stewpan with some layers of bacon, a carrot, an onion, a bay-leaf, and a few sprigs of thyme, season them with salt and pepper, and baste them with a small quantity of good broth. Stew the tendons _ very gently. When cooked, drain them, put them in a deep frying-pan with a piece of glaze, and stir them over the fire until well coated. When ready, arrange the tendons in a circle, alternating them with croutons of fried and glazed bread, put a puree of chestnuts in the centre, and serve. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, VOL. II. V eal—continued. Stewed Tendons of Veal in Chipolata.—Set the tendons to disgorge the blood, then blanch them and leave them till cool. When cold, trim them to a nice shape, wrap them in slices of fat bacon, and put them in a stewpan. Put a carrot, an onion, a bay-leaf, and a few sprigs of freshly-gathered thyme in with the tendons, add broth to their height, season it with salt and pepper, and stew them very gently for four hours. Prepare the Chipolata as follows: Peel and boil some chestnuts till soft, then drain them. Twist some sausages to make them very short, prick them, put them in a saute-pan, and cook them in the oven. When the sausages are done, drain off the fat, and put in with them some small stewed onions, some pieces of cooked bacon cut into cork shaped pieces, and some mushrooms, and stew the whole in some sauce tournee for two or three minutes. When done, skim the fat off the sauce, thicken it, and add the chestnuts. When the tendons are cooked, drain them, put them into a frying-pan with a small quantity of glaze, and toss them about over the fire. When glazed, arrange the tendons in a circle on a hot dish, with some nicely browned croutons of fried bread, turn the Chipolata in the middle, at the same time pouring a little sauce over the tendons, and serve. Stewed Tendons of Veal with Green Peas.—(1) Cut the best part of the tendons into nice equal-sized pieces, and blanch them for ten minutes in boiling water; then drain them, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them over a clear fire for a few minutes. Put a bunch of sweet herbs and some salt and pepper in with the tendons, cover them with stock, and boil them gently till cooked. Boil some fresh green peas in stock till tender. When the tendons are cooked, remove the bunch of herbs, drain the peas, mix all together, turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Cut the tendons from two breasts of Veal, trim them into oval-shaped pieces 21>-in. long, and blanch them. Drain them, put them in a stewpan, cover them with equal quantities of broth and mirepoix, and let them simmer gently till tender. Drain the tendons and press them between two plates till cold. Strain the cooking liquor, skim off all the fat, and boil it till reduced. When the tendons are cold, trim off any meat that is on them, put them in the reduced gravy, and warm them up again. Fix a paste croustade in the centre of r dish, fill it with cooked green peas, arrange the tendons round the croustade, pour a little of the gravy over them and the remainder in a sauceboat, and serve. Stewed Tendons of Veal with White Sauce.—Blanch some tendons of Veal that have been cut into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with some young white onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little flour, salt and pepper, and some water, and stew over a slow fire till cooked; then move them to the side; add 2oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, a little grated nutmeg, and sufficient beaten yolks of eggs to thicken. Stir the sauce by the side of the fire till thick, take out the bunch of herbs, turn all on to a hot dish, and serve. Stewed Veal.—(1) Put 2oz. of butter and 2 table spoonfuls, of flour in a stewpan, and stir it over the fire till brown ; then put in the Veal, cut into pieces, and fry it a little. Put in some young onions, button mushrooms, morels, young carrots, peas, a bunch of thyme and laurel-leaves, and salt and pepper to taste, and moisten with a little warm water. Boil the Veal gently till cooked, then turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve at once. (2) Cut the Veal into small equal-sized pieces, put them in a saucepan with a lump of salt and sufficient water to cover them, and place it over the fire till boiling. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, skim the liquor, and let it simmer till the meat is nearly cooked ; then put in a handful of picked parsley. When the meat is quite tender, squeeze in the juice of one lemon, turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve. Stewed Veal a la Bourgeoise.—Cook in loz. of butter 31b. of lean Veal cut in pieces and six small onions. After cooking ten minutes, add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. 2 z