735 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Vegetable Marrows—continued. a sieve. Pass them with the stock through a fine sieve into another saucepan, ami add another pint of the stock, with salt and pepper to taste. Boil up, and just previous to pouring it into the soup-tureen stir in 1 breakfast- cupful of boiling cream. Vegetable Marrows Stuffed with Pish.—-Cut the Marrows into halves lengthwise, and scoop out the seeds with some of the inside. Prepare the following stuffing: Use the remains of any kind of boiled fish, free it from skin and bone, put it in a mortar with two skinned and boned anchovies, and pound it until smooth. Allow for the fish half its quantity of grated breadcrumb, soak them in milk until quite soft, then squeeze them as dry as possible, and mix them with the fish. Pound the mixture again with a quarter of its quantity of fresh butter, season it to taste with salt, pepper, a small quantity of grated nutmeg and moderate quantities of powdered sweet herbs and spices, and work in a sufficient quantity of beaten yolks of eggs to bind it. Stuff the halves of Marrow with this, wrap each half separately in a sheet of buttered paper, and tie it round with twine. Lay them side by side in a buttered baking-tin, cover them with a dish, and bake in a moderate oven. When the Marrows are cooked, remove, lay them on a hot-dish, pour some nicely-flavoured clear gravy over them, and serve. Vegetable-marrow Flowers would not appear at first sight to be worthy of much culinary consideration, being better employed in producing fruit. But now and again the male flowers preponderate over the female beyond what would be required for propagating; they can then be gathered when full blown and treated in the following way, and form a very aesthetic dish. Wash the flowers thoroughly, and fill with a mixture of half-cooked rice, chopped veal, onions, and sweet herbs, Fig. 999. Vegetable-marrow Flowers. formed into a paste with egg. Put them into a saucepan with a good supply of boiling stock, and cook them. Take them out in half an hour, and serve on an ornamental dish-paper (see Fig. 999). VEIRGA.—A Russian table delicacy made from the spinal-marrow of the sturgeon, by preparing it with various aromatic spices. Preserved in bottles or jars, it is sometimes exported to this country. VELOUTE sauce. —See Sauces. VELVET CAKE.—See Cakes. VELVET CREAM.—See Cream. VELVET SAUCE (VELOUTE).—See Sauces. VENETIAN SAUCE.—See Sauces. VENICE BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. VENICE CAKE.—See Cakes. VENISON {Ft. Venaison; Ger. Reh; Ital. Sattig- gina; Sp. Yenado).—Under this title might be included the flesh of all kinds of deer. Of these, the Fallow, or Park Deer of England is considered superior to all. In America several kinds of deer are found; in France and Scotland the Roebuck abounds; and in Ireland is found the Red Deer. Under the heading Roebuck V euisou—continued. numerous receipts will be found that are applicable to the flesh of these commoner kind of deer. The flesh of the Fallow Deer is alone considered by British cooks and epicures to be worthy of the name of Venison. When purchasing Venison care should be taken to see that the fat is clear, bright, and thick, and the cleft of the hoof should be smooth and close. To ascertain if it be fresh, run a sharp narrow knife or silver skewer into the shoulder or haunch, close to the bone. The smell of the knife or skewer will give the necessary informa- tion; but, as it is customary to keep Venison for a long time, so as to bring out the game flavour, the indications of freshly- killed Venison are rarely met with at the shop of the purveyor. There is, however, a great differ- ence observable between what may be called stale Venison and that which has been carefully treated and hung. The vein in the neck should be bluish, not green or yellow. A faint smell in the hind quarter, or under the kidney, indicates stale meat. If you can learn where Venison has been reared, choose forest Venison, as that is best, and avoid that which has been stall fed, for it is then usually fattened with oil cake. Venison should be at least five years old. The buck comes into season in May, and continues prime till September, when the doe Venison comes into season, and continues till Christmas. A deer is usually cut up into quarters (see Fig. 1000), the hind-quarters consisting of the leg (1) and the loin (2); the leg and loin together constituting the haunch. The fore-quarters consist of the neck (3), the best end of the neck (4), bi’east (5), and shoulder (6). The head (7) and the feet (8, 9) are usually thrown away, but they make very good soup. To keep Venison, be sure that you receive it fresh in the first instance, then wipe it dry, and dust it over with a floury cloth, or a poulterer’s mop, and hang it, cut end upwards, in an airy place. If it be desired to keep it a long time, use powdered ginger instead of flour. Should the meat be a little musty, wash it first with lukewarm water, then lukewarm milk-and-water. Wipe it perfectly dry, and dust it with powdered ginger as before. Some cooks have an idea that Venison should be constantly saturated with wine during the time it is hung, but this is a great mistake, there being not the least necessity for the use of wine, excepting during cooking. Baked Leg of Venison.—Saw off the shank of a leg of Venison, trim off’ all the hard and black parts, wash it well, and dry it on a cloth. Put 21b. of flour into a basin, mix it into a soft paste with a little cold water, and roll it out. The paste must be of a moderate thickness, as if too thin it is liable to give way in places. Brush the Venison over with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, wrap it well in paste, put it in a baking pan with a small quantity of water at the bottom to keep it from burning, and place it in a moderate oven. While baking, moisten the paste occasionally with a little water to keep it from Fig. 1000. Method or Cutting ui* Deer.