784 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details res-pectx.no Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Wines—continued. entirely of iron, the recesses for bottles being formed by bent iron hooping or ribbon iron riveted to uprights ; these support the shoulder of the bottle, a second frame made fast to the first supporting the bottles towards the bottoms. No. 2 (see Fig. 1062) is upon the same principle, the iron bands crossing each other diagonally. In No. 3 (see Fig. 1063) the iron bands cross horizontally and vertically, passing diagonally through horizontal square wooden bars, Fig. 1064. Old-fashioned Wine-bin. which hold together the two frames, back and front. Any of these may be considered equally useful, No. 1 having an advantage in strength, durability, and simpli- city. When these racks or stands are used it is advisable to erect partitions at stated intervals, keeping from the Fig. 1065. King’s Cellular Brick for Wine-bins. bottles those currents of air that experts believe to be injurious. Wine for keeping requires a uniform tem- perature free from draughts of cold air, and for securing this packing in bins built into the wall or earth was for- Wines—continued. merly resorted to (see Fig. 1064). That these had a decided advantage over the iron racks and modern system of storing cannot be denied—the temperature was better preserved and the Wines were quite free from jarring; but the bins were small and the bottles were piled on each other. The statement that Wine is better stored in close earth, brick, or earthenware cells led to the invention of King’s cellular bricks (see Fig. 1065), which are much used for erecting artificial cellular cellar walls (see Fig. 1066. Wall Wine-bin, constructed of King’s Cellular Bricks. Fig. 1066). The cost of these is an absolute gain when compared with the manifold advantages to be derived from them. With regard to the age of Wines, they differ materially, some improving and others deteriorating by keeping. Sparkling Wines are in their prime in from eighteen to thirty months after the vintage, depending in a measure on the cellaring and climate. What are termed weak Wines, or those of an infei’ior growth of grape, should be consumed within twelve or fifteen months after ferment- ing, and ought to be kept in a cool cellar. As regards sound, well-fermented, good seasoned, full-bodied still Wines, these are at all times improved by keeping, that is to say, for a reasonable time and under favourable conditions of storage and temperature. Wines are matured by a slow process of fermentation which takes place in air-tight vessels, such as bottles. In casks, if exposed to a higher temperature than is required for keeping, Wine is liable to acetify slowly, until the whole becomes little better than vinegar. Tartness or acidity is regarded by the ignorant as a proof of age—it may be more correctly regarded as an indication of either the cellar-keeper’s errors or inferior Wine. The change that takes place during maturation is believed to be an “ insensible fermentation,” due to the usual fermenting vigour being kept in abeyance by the presence of alcohol, lowness of temperature, and exclusion of air. The promotion of maturation or “ripening” of Wines is brought about by the adoption of various plans. One of the safest, especially for strong Wines, is not to rack (that is, fine and draw off) until they have stood fifteen or eighteen months upon their lees, or keeping them whether “ crude ” or “ racked ” at a temperature ranging between 50deg. and 60deg. Fahr. in a cellar that is quite free from draughts and not too dry. Another mode of maturing is to remove the bungs or corks, and tie a piece of Avet bladder over the openings, taking care to make the vessels so treated air-tight. Bottled Wine treated in this Avay ripens very quickly if kept in a temperate situation. “ Some dealers,” says Cooley, “ add a little dilute sulphuric acid to the coarser Wines for the same purpose; but a small quantity of concentrated acetic acid or tartaric acid would be preferable, since these acids are found in all Wines. Four or five drops of the former, added to a