793 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, £c., referred to, see under their special heads. W oodcocks—continued. a frying-pan, season with pepper and salt, and baste them with a little warmed butter. Stud each of the minion fillets with a small square of truffle, put them in a baking- dish with a small lump of butter, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and hake in the oven. Fry the large fillets over a moderate fire. Fix a croustade in the centre of a hot dish, and fill it with a truffle puree. Arrange the large fillets when cooked in a circle round the croustade, then place the minion fillets round them. Pour over the fillets some essence of Woodcocks that has been mixed with a small quantity of half glaze, and serve them. Fried Woodcocks.—-Dress and prepare two or three Woodcocks. Have ready a frying-pan half full of smoking hot fat, and as many slices of bread as there are birds. Trim the crust from the bread, and toast it delicately 'while the Woodcocks are being fried ; plunge the birds into the hot fat, fry them a delicate brown, then sprinkle them with salt, and serve them on the toast. Roasted Woodcocks.—(1) Truss the required quantity of Woodcocks without drawing them, fastening the legs close to the body with an iron skewer. Toast as many slices of bread as there are Woodcocks to he roasted. Tie the birds on a small bird-spit, and put them in front of a clear fire. Lay a slice of toast in the dripping-pan under each bird to catch the trail, and let them roast for twenty minutes or half an-hour: they should be rather underdone. While they are roasting, ■ haste them with butter, and dredge with Fig. 1078. Roasted Woodcocks. flour to froth them. When sufficiently cooked, lay the pieces of toast on a hot dish and put one of the birds on each, pour a little good beef gravy in the dish, and serve some more in a sauce-tureen. Garnish the dish with thin slices of lemon and watercress (see Fig. 1078). (2) Pluck and draw some Woodcocks ; put a little butter, pepper, and salt, mixed, into the body, or fill with mashed potatoes seasoned with a bit of butter, pepper, and salt, and moistened with milk ; cut off the pinions at the first joint, fasten the legs close to the ribs, and turn the head of each one backwards, sticking the bill between the legs and the body. Rub over with pepper and salt, put them on a spit, and set before a hot fire, basting with a little water and butter. Dredge over flour or rolled crackers, and baste continually for the last five minutes; lay slices of toast under to catch the dripping, ami serve under the birds. (3) Procure six fine fat Woodcocks ; pick, singe, and draw them, putting the hearts and livers on a plate for further use. Take out the eyes, remove the skin from the heads, truss up the feet, skewer them with the bill, and tie a bard of fat pork round the breasts. Chop up all the hearts and livers very fine, and mix them with 1 teaspoonful of chives, 2 pinch of salt, J pinch of pepper, and 1 teaspoonful of butter. Prepare six bread canapes for game, 2Ain. long by Hin. wide, fry them for two minutes in very "hot- fat, then drain them thoroughly, and cover each canape with some of the mixture, spreading over a little bread- crumb and a very little butter; place them in a small baking-pan and put them aside. Now put the Woodcocks in a roasting-pan with a little butter well spread over them, and bake them in a brisk oven for ten minutes. Two minutes before the birds are done, put the canapes in the. oven, then take both out and lay the canapds on a hot dish ; untie the birds, and arrange them over the canapes, decorating the dish with a' little watercress. Strain the gravy into a sauce-bowl, and serve it separately. (4) Take the neck-bone out of the required quantity of birds, leaving the skin and head attached to the body, Woodcocks—continued. twist the skin of the neck round the wing, and stick the bill through the wing and body in place of a skewer. Tie some thin rashers of bacon round the birds, fix them on a spit, and roast in front of a clear fire. The birds should be continually basted with butter, and a piece of toasted bread should lie put underneath to catch the drippings. When cooked, put as many pieces of toast on a hot dish as there are Woodcocks, place a bird on each piece, and serve them with a sauceboatful of butter sauce. These birds should not be drawn, and they require a very small amount of trussing. Salmi of Woodcock.—(1) Split three Woodcocks length- wise down the back, then divide them into joints, and lay them aside on a dish. Bruise the livers and trails of the birds, lay them on the dish with the birds, strew 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced lemon-peel over them, and dust over with salt, white pepper, a small quantity of cayenne, grated nutmeg, and 2 teaspoonfuls of French mustard; moisten with 1 wineglassful of white wine and the strained juice of four lemons. Put the dish in the oven and turn the contents about occasionally so that they may lie well seasoned. When very hot, take the dish (which should be of silver) out of the oven, pour a few drops of olive oil over the salmis, stir it about a little, then serve while very hot. (2) Wrap some Woodcocks in sheets of buttered paper and partially roast them in front of a clear fire. When done, cut the birds into joints, pare off the skin, and trim them. Pound the carcases, put them in a saucepan with the trimmings, two shallots, a clove of garlic, half a laurel leaf, and some sprigs of parsley. Pour in some white wine and boil gently for half an-hour. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan, and stir them over the fire till browned. Skim the fat off the sauce, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and stir it gradually in with the brown thickening. Continue stir- ring the liquor over the fire till boiling, then put in the pieces of Woodcocks, and keep them simmering by the side of the lire for ten or fifteen minutes. When ready, put the limbs of Woodcocks on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with croutons of fried bread or toast, and serve. (3) Cover some young Woodcocks with sheets of buttered paper, fix them on a spit, and roast them in front of a clear lire, keeping them as much underdone as possible. Disjoint the birds, beat them lightly, trim off all the skin, and leave them till cold. Put two or three slices of ham in a stewpan with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped carrots, three or four shallots, the same number of mushrooms, a bay-leaf, a hunch of thyme and parsley, three cloves, six peppercorns, 1 pinch of allspice, and a small lump of butter. Fry the above articles till lightly coloured, then put in the trimmings of the birds, pour in U teacupfuls of Madeira wine, the same quantity of Spanish sauce, and 4 teacupful of stock broth. Put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents simmer by the side of the fire for an-hour-and-a-half. Skim the fat off the liquor, add a small lump of sugar to counteract the bitter taste caused by the lungs, and strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan. Put the limbs of the birds in the liquor and warm them gradually by the side of the fire. Turn the salmis on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (4) Half roast two Woodcocks, basting them occasionally with a little butter to prevent them getting too dry, then cut them into pieces, put them in a stewpan with H breakfast- cupfuls of rich gravy, a small onion with three cloves stuck in it, and an anchovy; season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne, and simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Bruise the livers and trails. Place the pieces of Woodcock on a dish and keep them hot. Put the trails and livers in the sauce with a small piece of butter that has been kneaded in flour, and stir it over the fire till boiling and thickened. When taken off' the fire, mix 1 wineglassful of red wine and a squeeze of lemon-juice with the sauce, pour it over the Woodcocks, and serve while very hot. (5) Cover the required quantity of birds with sheets of