TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OP PRACTICAL COOKERY. 803 Teast—continued. ■warm milk, stir it well, mix in two well-beaten eggs, Jib. of sifted flour, and a small quantity of salt. Work the mixture until smooth, cover it, and put it in a warm place until well risen. Warm 4oz. of butter, work it into the sponge, and add another Jib. of flour and J teacupful of sugar. Beat the dough thoroughly, and set it to rise again in a warm place. Divide the mixture into small equal-sized portions, roll them into balls on a floured table, and leave them to rise. Put a lump of butter in a frying- pan, make it hot, put in the balls, and fry them over a gentle fire until equally and delicately browned. When cooked, drain the balls, put them on a hot dish, pour stewed fruit round them, and serve. Yeast Fritters.—Dissolve loz. of dry Yeast in J pint of warm milk ; warm 4oz. of butter, beat it well, adding six eggs, one at a time, then mix in 1 pint of milk, also the milk in which the Yeast has been dissolved, lib. of flour, and a small quantity of salt. Stir the batter well until quite smooth, then cover it with a cloth and set it in a warm temperature. When the batter has well risen, melt a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and fry it in small quantities, like thin pancakes. When the fritters are cooked and lightly browned on both sides, place them on a hot dish on which has been spread a fancy dish- paper or a folded napkin, sift caster sugar and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon over them, and serve without delay. Yeast Puddings.—Get the required quantity of bakers’ dough, let it rise in front of the fire, then divide it into equal portions, and mould them into small balls. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water and plunge the balls into it. Keep the lid on the saucepan, and boil them quickly for twenty minutes. When cooked, drain the puddings, pile them on a hot dish, and serve at once with a sauceboatful of wine sauce. YELLOW SAUCE.—See Sauces. YORK BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. YORK SOUFFLES—See Souffles. YORKSHIRE CAKES.—See Cakes. YORKSHIRE PIE.—A pie under this name sold at Italian warehouses is nothing more than a galantine packed in terrines of different sizes. The genuine article, which forms an important feature of the York- shire Christmas festivities, is made as follows : Bone a large fowl and fill the body with a stuffing made of 1 teacupful of minced ham or tongue, 1 breakfast- cupful of minced veal, 1 teacupful of finely-chopped suet, 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, pepper and salt freely to taste, massed together with 2 beaten eggs; or the following stuffing may be used : The same quantities of minced ham or tongue, veal, and suet, 1 table-spoonful of powdered sweet herbs, a finely chopped partly boiled onion, 1 teaspoonful of grated lemon peel, J teaspoonful of mixed ground spices, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, and J saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, worked into a paste with two beaten eggs. Sew up the fowl, truss it into a good shape, and then stew it with the goose in a close stewpan, moistening with some good stock. After stewing for half-an-hour, take the fowl and goose out of the stewpan, fold the fowl up in the goose, and lay the two in a pie-mould which has been lined with a good pie-paste, having previously put a layer of the same stuffing as used for the fowl at the bottom of the pie. Pack round the goose slices of partly boiled tongue and pieces of pigeon, partridge, hare, or any other game at hand. Fill up the gaps with more stuffing, and pour in as much as possible of the stock in which the goose and fowl were stewed. Spread Jin. layer of butter over the contents, cover it with paste, ornament as desired, brush over the top of the pie with white of egg, and bake in a slow oven for three hours. YORKSHIRE FORK PIES—See Pork. YORKSHIRE PUDDING.—Of all the counties of which England is composed, there is none so famous for its culinary productions as Yorkshire. The pie, the pudding, and the York ham are familiar as household words. There are a few varieties of Yorkshire pudding, notably that with currants served with roast beef, the famous Goose Pudding, and others, of which the following may be considered authentic examples: Take an equal number of eggs and table-spoonfuls of sifted flour, and when the eggs are well whisked mix them gradually with the flour, adding salt and a grating of nutmeg, and then pour in as much new milk as will make a batter the consistency of cream. Stir the batter with a fork vigorously for ten minutes or so, and then pour it at once into a baking-tin, which must be very hot, and contain a couple of table-spoonfuls of hot dripping. Set the pudding to bake in an oven, or before the tire under the roasting meat. When ready to serve, cut the pudding into squares, and send it to table on a separate dish. “ This.” says Kettner, “ is the true Yorkshire method, the pudding being only Jin. thick, and not turned in the baking. But in most other counties the plan is to make the pudding an inch thick, and either to turn it on the baking-tin or turn it out of one baking-tin on to another, in order to brown it on both sides. If the meat is not roasted but baked, the pudding may still be placed under it, the meat resting upon a tripod in the middle of the baking-tin.” Well-washed grocers’ currants may be added to the above for roasted beef, and the following receipts may be considered varieties of the original: (1) Stir into 1 pint of milk a sufficient quantity of flour to make a thin smooth batter; beat the yolks of four eggs together with J table-spoonful of brandy, also beat up the whites of two eggs; stir the eggs lightly in with the batter, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, and beat the whole lightly with a fork for a few minutes. Thickly butter the interior of a hot shallow baking-tin, pour the batter into it, and put it in the oven. When set, the pudding may be put slantingly in front of the tire, where, if there be a joint roasting, it may receive the drippings from it, and be lightly browned over the top. Serve the pudding cut up into squares. (2) Mix smoothly 5 table-spoonfuls of flour with 1 pint of milk and one egg; put a lump of fat in a shallow baking-dish, place it over the fire until boiling hot, then pour in the batter and bake it in the oven for half-an- hour. Afterwards place it in front of the fire under the meat for ten minutes or so before taking the meat up. The tin should be huge enough to allow the pudding to be between Jin. and Jin. thick. Serve hot with the meat. (3) Mix 1 breakfast-cupful of flour in 1 pint of water or milk, beating it well to prevent it being lumpy ; add 1 table-spoonful each of warm dripping or butter and golden syrup, a little salt and baking-powder, the yolks of two eggs well beaten, and the whites whipped to a froth. Stone 3oz. or 4oz. of raisins or well-washed grocers’ currants, strew them over the batter, pour it into a hot shallow baking tin, and bake for twenty minutes. Take it out, and it is ready to be served. Apples cut in quarters and parboiled in syrup may be substituted for the raisins. YULE CAKES—See Cakes. Z AKONSKI.—Zakonsk i is in Russia the same as our “ hors d’oeuvre,” and are generally taken before sitting down to dinner. They are composed of herrings, ancho- vies, caviar, or other kind of small sandwiches ; or they may be small tartlets, thin slices of cooked goose, soused fish, or various other dishes. They are placed on a side table with liqueurs, and are eaten only a few minutes before dinner. ZAKUSKA.—The Russian term for a service of hors d’oeuvre, concerning which Sir Henry Thompson, in For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 f 2