711 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. dish in a circle, pour the sauce in the centre, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (3) German Style.—Trim off all the skin and sinews from some Veal, and finely chop the meat; season it with salt and pepper and a moderate quantity of finely- minced parsley, and if liked a small quantity of grated lemon-peel, and hind it with beaten egg. Divide the mixture into equal portions, and mould them to the shape of cutlets. Roll them in beaten egg-aml-bread- crumbs, and leave them for an hour ; then egg-anil-bread- crumb them again, put them into a stewpan of boiling fat, and fry them until nicely browned. Drain the cutlets, decorate the bones with paper frills (see Fig. 9G0), arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with fried tomatoes, pour a rich gravy round, and serve. Veal Cutlets a 1’Anglaise.—Shape the cutlets round, trimming them neatly, and beat them with a cutlet-bat. Put loz. of butter in a plate, with about J teaspoonful each of chopped thyme and parsley, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and the grated yellow rind; melt the butter, and mix it well with the other ingredients. Dip each cutlet in the seasoned butter, then roll them in finely-grated bread- crumb that has been seasoned with salt and pepper, giving them a good coating and pressing them with the flat blade of a knife. Put the cutlets in a buttered saute-pan, and fry them. Fry also a few thin slices of bacon, and roll them up. Prepare a border of mashed potatoes, turn them on to a hot dish, place the cutlets and rolls of bacon in the centre, pour about A pint of hot brown sauce round them, and serve. Veal Cutlets §L la Bonne Aime. -Pare six Veal cutlets, brown them in a saute-pan with 2oz. of butter, anil season them with 1 pinch of salt and A pinch of pepper, turning them carefully several times. Add two onions cut in thick slices, and place the lid on the saute-pan. Stir the onions occasionally, and when of a golden brown colour moisten with h pint of Spanish sauce. Cook for fifteen minutes longer, and serve with 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley dusted over the whole. Veal Cutlets a la Bouchere.—Cut the rib-bones square of a neck of Veal, cut from it six or seven cutlets each with one bone, clear about Jin. of the ends of the bones, and beat the cutlets lightly with a cutlet-bat. Season with salt and pepper, brush them over with melted butter, and broil them both sides on a clear fire. When done, glaze them with a paste-brush (see Glaze), dish them in a circular form, put a piece of maitre-d’hotel butter between each, garnish the dish with lemons cut in quarters, and serve. Veal Cutlets a la Ch&lons.—Prepare these the same as for Veal Cutlets a la Dreux, but lard them chequer-like with ham, fat bacon, and pickled cucumbers, instead of ham alone. Serve with stewed sorrel. Veal Cutlets a la Chef de Cuisine.—Cut the cutlets 4in. long from a neck of Veal, trim them, and clear lin. of the bone. Lard the cutlets with strips of fat bacon Jin. in thickness, tongue and truffles, put them in a stewpan with Fig. 961. Veal Cutlets a la Chef de Cuisine. f pint of Veal stock and J pint of mirepoix, cover them with a sheet of paper, and let them cook gently by the side of the fire till tender. When cooked, drain the cutlets, and press between two plates till cold ; then trim them, and put them in a saute-pan. Skim the fat off the cooking Veal—continued. liquor of the cutlets, strain it through a fine hair sieve into a saucepan, and boil it till reduced to half-glaze. Pour the sauce over the cutlets in the saute -pan, and put in the oven to heat them up again. Pile up in the centre of a dish French beans prepared as for garnish, arrange the cutlets round the pile, pour plenty of gravy over all, put a quarter of a lemon here and there (see Fig. 961), and serve. Veal Cutlets a la Chingara.—Sprinkle pepper and salt over six Veal cutlets, and fry them with a little butter and bits of ham. When the cutlets are done, cut some slices of tongue the same size, previously glazed, and cover each cutlet with th m. Dish them, and serve with some of the glaze. Veal Cutlets a la Dauphin.—Trim six cutlets of Veal on one side only, lard them with Veal and bacon cut fine, and braise them. Reduce the liquor in which they were stewed, then glaze the cutlets with it, and serve either with stewed endive or sorrel. Veal Cutlets a la Dreux.—Cut some Veal cutlets very thick, trim them, lard with slices of ham cut in squares, and sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them ; put them in a stewpan with some thin slices of bacon, two small onions, two carrots, a few sprigs of thyme, three or four cloves, and some bay-leaves; lay the trimmings on the top, add j teacupful of good Veal broth, and stew them over a slow fire for two hours. When done, take the cutlets out, and put them in a dish to cool. Reduce the liquor to a glaze, and glaze the cutlets with it. Serve with Spanish sauce. Veal Cutlets a l’Espagnole.—Lay at the bottom of a saucepan two or three thin slices of ham, a bunch of parsley, half a bay-leaf, and a little thyme. Trim some Veal cutlets, season them with pepper and salt, lay them on the top of the ham and butter, and fry them over a very slow fire. Drain the fat off, and pour in J teacupful of Spanish sauce and 1 table-spoonful of broth. Dish the cutlets, strain the sauce, pour it over them, and serve. Veal Cutlets a la Financiere.—(1) Cut a few cutlets off a neck of Veal, shorten the rib-bones, and cut off the chine-bones. Beat the cutlets lightly with a cutlet-bat, stud them all over the same side in a fancy pattern with square fillets of truffles, and dust some, pepper and salt over them. Put some finely-chopped carrots and onions in a stewpan, put in the cutlets, placing them side by side, and cover them with clear broth. Boil the liquor till reduced one-tliird its original quantity, then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and braise the cutlets slowly for three quarters-of-an-hour, basting them often. When cooked, take the cutlets away from the fire, and leave them till nearly cold in their cooking-stock. Trim the cutlets nicely, put them in another stewpan with the cooking-stock, and heat them slowly in the oven. Cover the bottom of a hot dish with financiere sauce, put some ruffles round the bones of the cutlets, place them on the dish, and serve. (2) Remove the chine-bone and the upper part of the rib-bones from a piece of the best end of a neck of Veal. The bones intended to form the cutlets should be about 3in. in length. Divide the meat into cutlets, trim them, and lard them closely with strips of bacon. Put a layer of sliced onions, carrots, and celery in a stewpan with some parsley and an onion stuck with four cloves. Put the cutlets on the vegetables, the larded side up, pour in sufficient water to reach the top of them, and put the stewpan on the fire till the water boils; then put it in the oven to braise the contents for an hour-and a-half. When nicely browned, put the cutlets on a hot dish, the larded side up, arranging them in a circle. Strain the cooking-liquor, pour it round them, fill the centre with a mushroom puree, and serve. Veal Cutlets a l’Indienne.—Procure tender Veal cutlets, and trim them to a nice shape. Mix in about 1 break fastcupful of milk, J table-spoonful each of pounded ginger and coriander-seeds, and 2 table-spoonfuls of