788 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Wines—continued. through a jelly bag, turn it into a jug, and serve it with biscuits. (2) Break a perfectly fresh egg in a basin, put in a table-spoonful of caster sugar and a wineglassful of Wine. Beat the above ingredients well, then pour in gradually- A pint of water, stirring all the time to keep it firm. Four the mulled Wine into a glass, grate a small quantity of nutmeg over, and serve. (3) Pour 1 pint of water into a saucepan, add a season- ing of cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, and a little bruised ginger, cover over the pan, and reduce to A pint. Strain it, add 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar and 1 pint of claret, and serve in glasses. (4) Put 1 pint each of Wine and cold water on the stove to get warm; beat up three eggs with 3 table-spoon- fuls of sugar; when the Wine is hot—not boiling, or the eggs will curdle—add the eggs to it, and beat them well; add a little allspice, and if not sweet enough add a little more sugar, grate in a little nutmeg, and serve hot. Wine Biscuits.—Slightly warm Jib. of butter and beat it to a cream with a wineglassful of Wine. Mix 41b. of flour with Alb. of caster sugar, then mix it to a paste with the Wine and butter, stirring in also four well beaten eggs. Sprinkle a few caraway-seeds into the mixture, work it till quite smooth, then turn it out on to a floured table, and roll it out as thin as possible. With a round tin cutter, ll,in. in diameter, cut some biscuits out of the Fig. 1071. Wine Biscuits. flat of paste. Put the biscuits on a buttered baking- sheet, brush the tops over with beaten rvhite of egg, dust some caster sugar over them, and bake in a quick oven for ten or twelve minutes. When cold, take the biscuits off the baking-sheet, and serve in a glass dish (see Fig. 1071). When cold, keep them in a tin in a dry place. Wine Cake.—Put 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar into a saucepan with 1 pint of Wine, and stir it over the fire till on the point of boiling. Take the sweetened Wine off the fire and leave it till cooled to blood heat. Beat six eggs well, and mix them with the Wine, then stir the liquor gradually into Jib. of the best white flour, and beat it well. Butter a cake-tin, pour in the cake, and bake it in a quick oven. When cooked, turn the cake out of the tin. Wine Cream Ice.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream into a saucepan with the yolks of five eggs, and prepare a custard. Pour it into a basin, let it get cold, mix in 2 wineglass- fuls of white Wine and sufficient syrup or sugar to sweeten, and freeze in the freezer; stir in a little chopped preserved mixed fruits, turn the cream into a mould packed in ice, let it set, and turn it out on to a cold dish for use. Wine Custard.—Put lqt. of rich milk in a saucepan with 6oz. of caster sugar and boil it. Beat the yolks of twelve eggs with 6oz. of caster sugar till light and thick, then pour in gradually the boiling milk. Return the custard to the saucepan, and stir it by the side of the fire till thick and on the point of boiling; then move it at once, for if it boils the eggs will curdle, and stir into it 2 wineglassfuls of white Wine. Strain the custard into a basin, and set it on ice till cold. Put some slices of jelly cake into a large glass bowl, pour in the custard, pile some whipped cream on the top, and serve; or, if Wines—continued. preferred, the custard may be turned into saucers with small round Italian cakes floating about in them. Wine Finger Biscuits.—(1) Warm 2oz. of butter and beat it to a cream with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 1 table-spoonful of orange sugar; add 1 wineglassful of Malaga Wine and 1 pinch of salt, then stir Alb. of flour in the mixture, and work till smooth. Dust "some flour Fig. 1072. Wine Finger Biscuits. over the table or paste-slab, and roll the paste out very thin; cut it into long thin fingers, which prick all over with a fork. Dust some flour over a baking-sheet' arrange the biscuits on it, and bake them in a moderately brisk oven. Serve on a glass dish (see Fig. 1072). The biscuits should be kept perfectly dry in biscuit-tins. (2) Rub Jib. of butter smoothly into fib. of flour, then mix in 41b. of sugar; beat the yolks of two eggs well with 2 wineglassfuls of white Wine, and stir them in with the above ingredients ; mix the paste smoothly, then put it on a floured paste board and roll it out thinly. Cut the paste into long strips about lin. wide, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten white- of egg, and dredge over with caster sugar, pounded sweet almonds, and a small quantity of cinnamon. Butter a bright baking- tin, lay the strips on it, side by side, and not too closely together, and bake them until lightly browned. These are very nice served when cold for dessert. Wine Froth.—Put the yolks of six eggs into a saucepan with A pint of Wine, and whisk them over the fire until a stiff froth is formed. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and the grated peel of a lemon. Add them to the above mixture, and whisk the whole until it thickens. Pour the mixture into glasses, and serve. Wine Ices.—Rub the peel of one orange and four lemons on some lumps of sugar, and scrape it off into a basin, then squeeze in the juice of the lemons and orange. Add to the above articles 4 pint of clarified sugar, 1 pint of Wine, and a small quantity of water. Stir all together till well mixed, then turn it into a freezer, and work the mixture until frozen. When frozen, ladle the ice into ice glasses, and serve. Wine Jelly.—(1) Steep 3oz. of gelatine in 1 pint of cold water for twenty minutes, then turn it into a saucepan, and stir in lqt. of boiling water. When the gelatine has dissolved, mix in with it the thinly-pared rind and the juice of two lemons, lOoz. of loaf sugar, some small pieces