TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 740 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads Venison—continued. cover with buttered paper, and put in the oven for an hour and-a-half, hasting it frequently. Next pour into the pan \ pint each of marinade and sour cream, and haste frequently with this. When ready, dish it; add a little gravy to the stock in which it was cooked, boil it up, reduce to the thickness of a light sauce, and pour over. Roasted Shoulder of Venison (French Style).—Bone and stuff a shoulder of Venison, lard it, and either roast or hake it, protecting the lardoons with several thicknesses of buttered paper. If the meat is hasted while it is being cooked, take care not to haste the larded part, because that would soften the lardoons. When the Venison is nearly done, season with salt and cayenne, remove the buttered paper, brown the lardoons, and then remove the skins used to confine the stuffing, and serve the Venison hot with red-currant jelly, or any suitable sauces. Roasted Venison.—(1) The loin, saddle, haunch, or shoulder of Venison may be roasted. After the piece has been care- fully trimmed and freed from hairs, wipe it with a wet towel, season with salt and pepper, cover with several thick nesses of buttered paper, or with a paste made of flour and water, to retain its juice, put it before the fire, and roast it, twenty minutes for each pound. Take off the paper or paste and quickly brown the Venison. If a frothed appearance is desired, dredge the meat with flour, and baste it with butter before browning it. Serve very hot with red-currant jelly. (2) German Style.—Hang the Venison for fourteen days in a cold dry place, then wash and dry it well; beat it on the table and flay off the skin. Lard the fleshiest parts of the Venison with strips of bacon, fix it on a spit, roast before a clear brisk fire, and baste constantly with sour cream. When the Venison is cooked, put it on a hot dish, pour sufficient broth or water in the basting'-pan to make a gravy, place it over the fire, season it to taste with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice, anti stir it well until hot. Strain it through a fine hair sieve over the Venison, anti serve. Saddle of Venison a la Polonnaise.—Prepare a saddle or haunch of a buck (one that has not been fattened for pre- ference), place it in a stewpan, and add 2qts. of cooked marinade stock. Let it remain in this for four hours, turning frequently; take it out, let it drain, lard the fillets with bacon, place it in a braising-pan, and moisten to half the height of the meat with broth and a small quantity of its marinade. Braise it on a moderate fire, and baste frequently. Dish it up, and garnish with a pile of round truffles and two of mushrooms, stuffed, along the sides, and a pile of sour-crout at each end. Pour over a little brown sauce that has been prepared with the meat, and serve the remainder of the sauce in a sauceboat. Stewed Breast of Venison.—Skin the breast, remove the bones, and tie the meat round to the shape of a round of beef. Place a few slices of carrots and onions in a stew- pan with a bunch of sweet herbs, put in the meat, and season to taste with pepper, salt, and a few cloves. Moisten to height with claret and stock in equal quanti ties, put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents simmer at the side of the fire for three hours, turning the meat occasionally. When ready, put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir it over the fire until mixed, then strain in enough of the cooking-stock of the Venison to make a sufficient quantity of sauce. Stir it over the fire until boiling and thickened, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Put the meat on a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. Stewed Shoulder or Breast of Venison.—Let the Venison hang till tender, bone it then, and beat well with a rolling- pin. Lay on it some slices of mutton-fat (bat have been steeping for five hours in port wine, season with finely- powdered pepper and allspice, roll it up tight, and bind into shape with tape. Put it over the fire in a small stewpan with some stock (not strong) of beef or mutton, h pint of port wine, the bones of the Venison, and a few grains of whole pepper and whole allspice. Cover the pan closely, and let it stew as slowly as possible for three or four hours according to size. When the meat is thoroughly V eni son —continued. done, lay it on a hot dish, cut the tapes, and remove them; strain the gravy over it, and serve with currant - jelly sauce. This way of cooking breast or shoulder is only suitable if the Venison is lean ; if it is fat, it should be roasted. Stewed Shoulder of Venison.—(l)When hung till tender, remove the bones from a shoulder of Venison, and beat the meat. Cut some thin slices of rather fat mutton, let them macerate in a small quantity of port wine for a few hours, then drain and put them on the Venison. Season the Venison with salt, pepper, and allspice, roll it round and tie it up tightly, and put it in a stew- pan with h pint of port wine, 1 pint of mutton broth, 1 teaspoonful of allspice, and a small quantity of pepper. Put the lid on the stewpan, and let the liquor simmer slowly by the side of the fire for four hours. When cooked, cut the string oft' the Venison, put it on a hot dish, strain the cooking-liquor over, anil serve with a dish of red-currant jelly. (2) Select a very lean shoulder of Venison, bone it, cover with slices of mutton-fat, which should be steeped in port wine to give a richer flavour, roll it up, and bind tightly. Lay it in a stewpan with a quantity of beef gravy and its bones, add 2 wineglassfuls of port wine, 1 dessert-spoonful of whole pepper, and the same quantity of allspice. Cover closely, and simmer until the Venison is tender; take it out and remove the fat, thicken the gravy with flour and butter, strain it over the meat, and serve. Stewed Venison.—Cut the meat into rather small square pieces. Put about 3oz. of butter in a stewpan, melt it, then dredge in a small quantity of flour, stirring at the same time to mix it with the butter. Put in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of bacon cut into small squares, two chopped shallots, six small onions, two cloves of garlic, and a few mushrooms. Put in the meat, season with salt and pepper, and pour in sufficient claret and water, mixed in equal quantities, to cover the whole. Boil the meat gently at the side of the fire until tender, then take it out of the stewpan, skim the fat off’ the sauce, remove the garlic, and boil it quickly until rather thick and brown. Arrange the meat on a hot dish, pour the sauce and other ingredients over it, and serve. Stewed Venison Cutlets with Tomato Sauce.—Divide a neck of Venison into cutlets, trim them, beat them lightly, and lard with narrow strips of bacon. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon, some trimmings and minced vegetables, put in the cutlets, and cover them with stock. Boil the liquor till reduced to half its original quantity and the cutlets are cooked. Prepare some thick tomato sauce, put it on a hot dish, and arrange the cutlets on it. Strain the cooking- liquor, mix l wineglassful of port wine with it, pour it over the cutlets, and serve. Venison a la Minute.—Use small slices of Venison about Jin. thick. Put into a chafing-dish sufficient butter and red currant jelly in equal parts to cover the bottom of the dish. Season the Venison with salt and pepper, lay it in the dish on the jelly and butter, and cook it for three minutes on each side, then serve it. As this dish can be prepared at the table, it is considered a very pleasing addition to a small lunch or breakfast-table. Venison Collops.—(1) Trim off the skin and sinews from any remains of cold cooked Venison, finely chop the flesh, anil mix with it a third of the quantity of finely-minced bacon, and 1 teacupful of finely-grated* breadcrumb. Season the mixture to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of mixed herbs, and bind it to a stiff paste with beaten egg. When well worked together, divide the mixture into small quantities, which roll into balls, flatten them, and dip them in beaten egg and then in breadcrumbs. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, melt it, put in the collops, and fry them until nicely browned on both sides. When cooked, drain them, arrange them in a group on a hot dish that has been spread with a fancy dish paper or folded napkin, and serve with a sauceboatful of piquant sauce.