757 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads Walnuts—continued. radish. Boil the whole together for two hours, then strain it through a fine hair sieve. For every quart of this liquor, mix with it 1 pint of port wine, 1 teacupful of soy, and Joz. each of mace, cloves, nutmeg, and whole black pepper. Boil the ketchup for another half-hour, then pour it into a large bowl and let it get cold. When ready, pour the ketchup into bottles, with an equal division of the spices in each bottle; cork tightly, and stow them away in a dry store-cupboard. (8) Add to JgalL of Walnut pickle 1J pints of port wine and Jib. of anchovies; let all boil together till reduced to one-third. Strain, put it into small bottles, and cork them well. Walnut Pickle.—Put a quantity of the green rinds or outer shells of ripe Walnuts into a tub that has a tap, sprinkle them with water, and prop the tub up on the side opposite to the tap. Put a vessel under the tap to receive the liquor which will soon begin to drip from the tap. When a sufficient quantity has dripped through, add to 1 gal. of it a stick of horseradish, a bunch of sweet herbs, a couple of bay-leaves, a good-sized onion, Joz. each of bruised ginger, allspice, and black pepper, and 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of salt. Put it over the fire, and let it simmer for twenty minutes; strain, and let it stand till cold. Then stir it up and put it into bottles, placing an equal quantity of the spices that were boiled in it into each bottle, and corking them well. Walnut Sauce.—Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour in J pint of cold water, pour it into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire until boiling; put in a lump of butter, stir till the butter has dissolved, then squeeze in a little lemon-juice. Chop some pickled Walnuts, put them in the sauce, let them simmer all together for a few minutes, then serve. Walnut Vinegar.—Prepare some brine strong enough to float an egg, then put some green Walnut-shells in it and let them soak for fourteen days. At the end of that time drain the shells and put them in the sun for nine days. Place the shells in a large stone jar, cover them well with boiling vinegar, and leave for a week. Drain the vinegar off the shells, boil it up again, and pour it over the shells. Keep the jar closely covered till ready to use the vinegar. When the Walnuts are ripe, which will be about Sep- tember or October, they are gathered by beating the trees with long poles. Before serving they should be freshly peeled and then thoroughly scrubbed; the practice of leaving them to soak for any length of time, so as to remove the green shell easier, is very apt to injure the kernels, and render them discoloured and bitter. Sugared Walnuts.—Take off the skins of about three dozen Walnuts, separate them into halves, and mask them with an icing made of 4oz. of sugar and an egg. Place them on a sheet of thick paper, put them into a slack oven, and bake until of a light brown colour. Take them out, remove them from the paper when cold, and they are ready for use. The Walnuts, after being skinned and divided into halves, should be dried at the oven door. Serve them piled on a glass dish (see Fig. 1030). A delicious sweetmeat is made by dipping the kernels in thick chocolate and icing. W alnuts—continued. Walnut Cake.—(1) Large.—Warm Jib. of butter and beat together with ill), of caster sugar till creamy; then sift in Jib. of Vienna flour in which has been mixed 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder and 1 pinch of salt. Add Jib. of peeled and chopped Walnuts, and flavour with 1 teaspoonful of vanilla essence. Whip the whites of eight eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them into the above mixture. Butter a cake-tin, pour in the mixture, and bake for an hour in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the cake out of the tin, and leave it till cold. (2) Rub Jib. of butter into lib. of flour, and then add Jib. of sugar, 1 saltspoonful of ground mace, and 1 teaspoon- ful of cream of tartar. Mix J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda with 2 table-spoonfuls of Hour and 1 breakfast- cupful of finely-chopped Walnuts. Work both mixtures together, with 1 teacupful of milk, the yolks of three eggs, and lastly add the whites which have been beaten stiff. Put the cake when made into a buttered tin, and place a layer of unbroken peeled halves of English Walnuts over the top. Bake in a moderate oven for forty or fifty minutes. (3) Small.—Put fifty shelled but not skinned Walnuts into a mortar, pound them well, then sift them through a fine hair sieve. Beat separately the yolks and whites of five eggs, mix 6oz. of caster sugar with the beaten yolks, also the pounded Walnuts, the grated rind and juice of one lemon, then mix in lightly the beaten whites of the eggs. When all the ingredients are well mixed, butter a shallow cake-tin, pour the mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven. When the cake is cooked, it should be turned out of the tin and left until cold. Cut the cake into diamond or square-shaped pieces, and keep them in biscuit-tins. Walnut Candy.—Crack the Walnuts and shell them care- fully. Take 1J pints of the kernels and chop or pound them. Mix f teacupful of vinegar and 1J teaspoonfuls of gelatine dissolved in a little hot water with 1 Jib. of brown sugar, set it over a moderate fire, and cook till quite stiff. Pour a thin layer of this syrup into buttered tins, add then the chopped or pounded Walnuts, spreading them evenly, pour over the rest of the syrup, and let the candy stand till cold; then cut it into squares. Walnut Cream Ice.—(1) Blanch and skin Jib. of Walnut kernels, put them in a mortar with a scant table-spoon- ful of orange-flower water, and pound until quite smooth, adding gradually J teacupful of milk. Turn the mixture on to a wire sieve and mb it through with a wooden spoon, having a basin underneath to catch it. Mix | breakfast-cupful of milk with the Walnuts, and Jib. of caster sugar. Stir well, add 1J breakfast-cupfuls of thick cream, turn the mixture into a freezer, and work it well. When frozen, pile the cream on a glass dish or in small glasses, and serve. (2) Crack and peel sufficient nuts to make 12oz. of pulp, those just beginning to ripen should be used ; pound them in a mortar together with 1 table-spoonful of orange- flower water and 1 teacupful of milk. When well pounded, stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Pour the pulp into the freezer, add 12oz. of caster sugar, and work it till stiff; then mix in gradually two whites of Italian meringue and 1 pint of thick cream. Turn the cream into a mould, cover, and pack it in pounded ice. When frozen, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the cream out on to a fancy dish, and serve. Walnut-and-Jam Biscuit.—Pound fifty Walnuts in their skins, then pass them through a fine wire sieve. Slightly warm Jib. of butter and beat it until creamy together with Jib. of caster sugar, then beat in the yolks of two eggs and one whole one, and 1 wineglassful of rum. Put Jib. of flour into a basin, and add the beaten mix- ture, stirring it till quite smooth. If too thin, more flour may be added to the paste, but it should not be too stiff. Butter a shallow baking-tin, spread the paste over it, bake in a moderate oven, and when cooked spread a layer of any kind of jam over it; then put it in the oven again for six or seven minutes. Beat the whites of two