THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 781 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Wines—continued. white Wines, and are characterised by a delicate flavour and aroma, called in the country gave, which is quite peculiar to them, and of which it would be vain to attempt the description. A notion prevails that they are naturally acid ; the inferior kinds are no doubt so, but this is not the constant character of the Rhine Wines, which in good years have not any perceptible acidity to the taste—at least, not more than is common to those of the growth of warmer regions. But their chief distinction is their extreme durability, in which they are not surpassed by any other species of Wine.” Moselle is a Wine that is thought in some degree to resemble Rhine Wines. A sparkling Moselle which finds its way in great quantities to this country is made from unripe grapes, to which is added a flavouring of musk or elder-flowers to give the bouquet peculiar to the best kinds of Moselle Wines. Port Wine has formed the staple Wine of our dinner- tables and desserts for the last 160 years. It is procured from districts in Portugal called the Douro and Traz- os-montes. The choicest vineyards are situated on a succession of hills on eacn side of the river Douro, distant about 50 miles from Oporto, from which place the Wine derives its name, Porto or Oporto Wine. The vintages are said to be divided into “ factory Wines,” reserved for the English market, and “assorted Wines,” for home con- sumption. A writer of some note observes: “ Of the excellence of genuine port Wine many a travelling con- noisseur can testify who has drums it on the spot and enjoyed the full mellow body, exquisite flavour, and seducing. mildness of the pure, unmixed juice of the grape; but after the ‘ blending ’ and adulterations to which the choice Wines of the Alto Douro are subjected in order to reduce them to tne orthodox port standard, it would be just as reasonable to expect the product to be good as to hope to increase the quantity of true Burgundy, of Clos Vougeot or Romance Conti, by turning the inferior Yins du Pays into a vat containing the precious Wine of the province.” Professor Brande suggests that “ good port Wine duly kept is, when taken in moderation, one of the most whole- some of vinous liquors: it strengthens the muscular system, assists the digestive powers, accelerates the circulation, exhilarates the spirits, and sharpens the mental energies ; but, when taken in excess, it is perhaps the most mischievous of Wines, and most likely to produce those permanent derangements of the digestive organs which follow the habitual use of distilled spirits.” A vast quantity of spurious port Wine is imported into this country from the Channel Islands. It is said that from 210 pipes of genuine port sent to the Channel Islands, no less than 2,072 pipes of "doctored” Wine were exported to England. The “ crust ” that forms in a bottle of port is con- sidered a criterion of its quality; it consists of the bitartrate of potash (cream of tartar), which is only sparingly soluble in Wine, and a connoisseur looks for some crystals of it on the bottom of the cork. Port Wine, when tawny from age, loses much of its astringency, and acquires a slightly acid taste, when it is not so wholesome as a full-bodied, sweet, new Wine, even though brandy has been added to it to make it keep. Mr. Paget wrote: “ It is a fallacy to suppose that such a thing exists as pure port Wine—that is, without an admixture of brandy. On the first arrival of each pipe of Wine at Villa Nova, a certain quantity of this spirit is immediately added; for without it the Wine would not keep.” Sherry derives its name from Xeres de la Frontera, a town in Andalusia. It is the produce of the vineyards of Xeres de la Frontera, Santa Maria, and San Lucar de Bar- rameda, watered by the rivers Guadalquiver and Guadalete. | It has been alleged that sherry is a compounded Wine, | Wines—continued. but this is not so. The best pale and light golden sherries are made from the pure grape, with the addition of a very small proportion of brandy. Neither are the deep golden and brown sherries, of the best quality, com- pounded Wines, though they may be called “ mixed ” Wines, seeing that they are coloured by mixing with them a proportion of arrope (sherry boiled down to one- fifth of its original bulk, and therefore assuming a dark colour). Pale sherries are undoubtedly the purest, but the colouring used is sherry also, although in a concentra- ted state. Sherries, therefore, must be judged by taste and smell, and not by colour. The finest, driest, and most valuable of sherries is the Amontillado, so called from its possessing a peculiar flavour that cannot be described, nor can its presence be accounted for. It is described as a mystery of nature that lias not been solved. We are informed by an authority, that “ when the farmers intend making their (Amontillado) Wine, the grapes are plucked about a fortnight before the general vintage, and the produce kept apart; out of twenty butts, however, it generally happens not above two will have the quality so much desired. Sometimes, as if by caprice, a butt of Wine from the general vintage will assume the Amontillado flavour.” When pure, sherries are stimulating and dietetic. “ Some idea,” says a writer, “ may be conceived of the vast amount of Wine stored in Xeres, where in the ware- house or bodegas of M. Domecq alone is, on an average, stored 15,000 butts of Wine, each butt averaging 108 gallons, bottling from 50 to 52 dozen to the butt. These bodegas are large warehouses, very lofty and well ventilated, and are filled with tiers of four butts of W ine (soleras). A visit to a bodega, if accompanied by the capitaz (head man), will be worthy of remembrance, as one of an agreeable nature, especially so if his explanations are rendered more intelligible by a bumper drawn from the most ancient ‘ madre ’ butt, which invariably contains Wine that is the accumulated produce of some fifty vintages.” The Wine-mercliants of Xeres never export their stock of the oldest and finest Wines, and in accordance with the price at which they are valued so the Wines are compounded. Thus a butt of Wine said to be thirty or forty years old will contain a portion of the vintage of several seasons, for, as the Wine is drawn from the butt, it is replenished by a contribution from the next in point of age and fineness, and so on through the bodegas. Of the sweet and deeply-coloured Wines of Andalusian production, Paxarette and Rota Tente are the most famous, the latter oemg known to us as a sacramental Wine. Yal de Penas is a Wine made near Manzanares, and resembles Burgundy. Madeira Wine takes its name from the island pro- ducing it. In colour it is darker than the average sherry, and as it is said to improve by a voyage to a warm climate, a kind called “ London Particular ” is shipped to the East or West Indies, landed there for a short spell, and then exported to England. That which goes to the East Indies is considered to have a softer flavour than that going to the West, owing to the warmer climate of the East. As a stimulant Madeira equals, if it does not excel, port, and when in fine condition may truly be called a generous Wine; although, perhaps, not so well suited to an invalid’s requirements, having a somewhat larger proportion of acid. Malmsey Madeira is reckoned to be a very choice Wine ; it is produced at a small spot in the valley of the Carnal de Lobos. Canary is another good Wine of the Madeira species. Marsala resembles Madeira in some respects, especially in colour and slightly in taste. It is made in the Island of Sicily. Malaga is a dry Wine of a sherry character, and is