THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 792 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, itc., referred to, see under their special heads. W oodcocks—continued. Bouchees of Woodcocks.—Braise some Woodcocks in game broth, and when they are cooked leave them till cool. Strain the cooking-liquor through a line hair sieve into another stewpan, skim oft' all the fat, boil it for a few minutes to slightly reduce it, then mix in double its quantity of veloute sauce, and boil quickly till reduced to a creamy consistency. When cold, separate the flesh of the Wood- cocks from the bones, trim off all the skin and fat, chop j the meat, and pound it in a mortar, pouring in gradually j at the same time the prepared sauce. Pass the puree ' through a line hair sieve into a stewpan. Boll out on a floured table some puff paste at six turns; with a fluted tin cutter, 2in. in diameter, cut out some rounds, arrange them on a baking sheet, a short distance from each other, and set them to rise in a cool place for a few minutes. Brush the bouchees (or small rounds of paste) over with a paste brush dipped in beaten egg, anti with a plain tin cutter, IJin. in diameter, cut partly through the centre of each of the rounds, dipping the cutter in hot water occasionally. Bake the bouchees in a quick oven, and when cooked lift off. the centre pieces of paste which are to form the covers and scoop out the underdone paste inside the patties. Stir the puree of Woodcocks over the fire till hot again, then fill the patties with it, put on the covers, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper that has been placed on a hot dish, and serve. Broiled Woodcocks.—Pluck, singe, draw, pick out the eyes, and remove the skin from the heads of six fine Woodcocks, wipe them neatly, and split them through the backs with- out separating the parts. Put them on a dish, season with 1 pinch of salt, 4 pinch of pepper, and 1 table spoon- ful of sweet oil. Roll them well in the seasoning and put them on to broil with the bills stuck into the breasts. Fig. 1077. Broiled Woodcocks. Let them broil for four minutes on each side, then arrange them on a dish with six pieces of heart-shaped fried bread covered with minced hearts and livers as for roasted Woodcock, spread over 1 gill of maitre d’hdtel butter, decorate with six slices of broiled bacon (see Fig. 1077), and serve. Chaudfroid of Woodcocks.—Pluck and singe some Wood- cocks, wrap them in sheets of buttered paper, fix them on a spit, and roast them in front of a clear fire; do not brown them, and keep them rather underdone. When cold, cut the birds into joints, coat them over with chaudfroid sauce that has been reduced with essence of Woodcock, and lay them on a dish till the sauce has cooled. Garnish a round border mould with some cooked minion fillets of Woodcocks, fill it with aspic jelly, and leave it till set. Turn the boi'der of jelly out on to a round dish, put a block of fiied bread in the centre, arrange the pieces of birds inside the circle, leaning them against the bread support, and serve. Essence of Woodcock.—Separate the fillets from the bones of some Woodcocks, and put them by for further use. Put the bones and trimmings of the birds in a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, one onion stuck with two cloves, a carrot, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; pour in 1 pint of Madeira, and boil till reduced to a glaze. Then pour in 3qts. of broth, and when boiling let it simmer for one and-a-half hours by the side of the fire, keeping it well skimmed. Strain the essence through a broth napkin, skim off the fat, and put it by for use. Fillets of Woodcocks a la Lucullus.—Singe and draw some birds, fix them on the spit, and roast, keeping them rather underdone. Make about 41b. of chicken forcemeat. Woodcocks—continued. Take the fillets off’ the birds, spread them over with the forcemeat, brush over with beaten egg, lay them in a buttered saute pan, pour in sufficient white stock to cover them, and boil gently for a few minutes. Chop the flesh of the legs and the trails, put it in a mortar, pound, and pass through a fine hair sieve. Put the pounded meat in a saucepan with 14 breakfast-cupfuls of game sauce (which can be made from the bones of the birds), and boil it til! thick ; move the sauce to the side of the lire and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs. Arrange the fillets of Woodcocks in a circle on a hot dish, alternat ing each with a crouton of fried bread, pour the sauce in the middle of the dish, and serve. Fillets of Woodcocks a la Strasbourg.—Cut the fillets off some Woodcocks and split them open where they are thickest, trimming neatly at the same time. Put some mushroom trimmings, the same quantity of parsley, and a smaller quantity of shallots, all chopped, in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them over a brisk fire for five minutes; then mix them with some fat liver force- meat. Spread the mixture inside the fillets, fold them again, flatten them slightly with the blade of a knife to stick the two pieces together, put them in a frying-pan with a piece of butter, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and fry them over a moderate fire. Boil some Spanish sauce with some essence of Woodcocks till reduced, then mix in 1 table spoonful of chopped truffles that have been cooked in white wine and 4 table-spoonful each of chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shallots, that have been fried in butter. Cook some scollops of fat liver, put them in a croustade that has been fixed on a hot dish, pour some of the sauce over the fillets, and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. Fillets of Woodcocks en Surprise.—Roast some Wood, cocks in front of a clear fire, keeping them rather under- done. When cooked, cut the fillets carefully off' the breasts of the Woodcocks, cover each with chicken force- meat, and let them simmer in some stock for ten or twelve minutes. Put as many dressed cocks’ combs as there are fillets in a little stock, and warm them. Put a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, arrange the fillets and cocks’ combs alternately on them, pour over some veloute game sauce, and serve. Fillets of Woodcock a la Talleyrand.—Roast some Woodcocks, and prepare some chicken forcemeat. When the Woodcocks are cooked, cut the fillets off the breast and cover them with the forcemeat, put them in a stewpan with sufficient broth to cover, and let them simmer for ten minutes. Cut as many pieces of bread as there are fillets and of the same size and shape, and fry them till lightly browned in butter. Pound the trails of the Woodcocks, season them, and mix a beaten yolk of egg with them ; spread the mixture on the croutons, and brown them in a quick oven for ten or fifteen minutes. Pour 2 breakfast-cupfuls of game sauce into a stewpan with a scant breakfast-cupful of broth, and boil quickly till it adheres to the spoon ; then put in 5 or 6 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped truffles, and add a little sugar. Arrange the fillets of Woodcocks in a half circle round a hot dish, and the croutons round the other side, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Fillets of Woodcock on Toast.—Separate the fillets from the bones of some Woodcocks, trim them neatly, season with salt and pepper, and brush over with warmed butter. Chop the trails of the birds, and mix them with some chopped parsley, shallots, and scraped bacon, and season the mixture with pepper and salt. Cut some crusts of bread longer than the fillets, make some deep slits down the edges, fry them in butter, then scoop out the crumb. Fill the crusts with the chopped trail mixture, and bake them. Put the fillets of Woodcocks in a frying-pan with some butter, and fry them. Mix some meat glaze with some stock that should have been made with the pounded carcase of the birds. When cooked, put the crusts on a hot dish, place a fillet on each crust, and serve them with the sauce in a sauceboat. Fillets of Woodcock with Truffle Puree.—Separate the fillets from the bones of the birds, trim them, put them in