THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 760 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. W aste—continued. prevents, by using up, accumulations that might other- wise be troublesome and offensive. Small quantities of cold vegetables, carrots, potatoes, turnips, cauliflower, spinach, and brussels sprouts are useful for thickening and flavouring plain soups, and cold cabbage and potatoes can be fried for the kitchen dinner. Dripping, melted down and put into jars, keeps well and is most useful. The fat skimmed off cold broth is useful for adding to vegetables when mashed, and for other purposes. Paper, string, and wooden skewers are handy at any time; but it must not be forgotten that heaps of grocer’s and other papers are often the cause of cockroaches swarming in the kitchen. When there is no use at home for so-called “ kitchen Waste,” it should be kept carefully sorted, and either sold or given away. WATER (Fr. Eau; Ger. Wasser; Ital. Acqua; Sp. Agua).—The true constitution of Water was not discovered until about the year 1781, when Cavendish and James Watt, independently and nearly simultaneously, showed it to be a compound of hydrogen and oxygen. Five years, however, before this time (1776), says Cooley, the cele- brated Macquer, assisted by Sigaud de la Fond, obtained pure Water by the combustion of hydrogen in the air. It has since been satisfactorily demonstrated that hydrogen and oxygen exist in Water in the proportion of 1 to 8 by weight, or 2 to 1 by volume One cubic inch of perfectly pure Water at G2deg. Fahr., and 30in. of the barometer, weighs 252‘458gr.; by which it will be seen that it is 770 times heavier than atmospheric air. Water evaporates at all temperatures; but at 212deg., under ordinary circumstances, this takes place so rapidly that it boils, and is converted into vapour (steam), whose bulk is nearly 1700 times greater than that of Water. Every cook knows that very much of the success of his undertakings in the process of boiling depends upon the quality of Water used. When available, it is at all times advisable to use soft, or rain Water; but as this is not always obtainable, the cook has to put up with hard Water from the pump, spring, or well; it is found advis- able occasionally to soften this Water by putting into it a small piece of soda. As a rule the Water supply to the kitchen is not under the con- trol of the cook ; when there is a choice, the cook will be careful to select that which is purest and best. The steam from Water that is none too pure, or is salt, or otherwise impregnated, when condensed is comparatively pure, although lacking the briskness of Water that has not been boiled. An automatic Water-condenser invented by Bracher (see Fig. 1035) has been much commended for general purposes. WATER, AERATED.—See Aerated Water. Fig. 1035. Water-condenser. WATERCRESSES.—See Cresses. WATER GRUEL.—See Gruel. WATER ICES.—See Ices. WATER SOUCHET.—There are so many modes of spelling this word that it is almost impossible to say which should have the preference as being more correct than others. By some authorities it is spelt Souchy; by others, Zootje. In the French language it is invariably Souchet, and as we are indebted to French cooks for Water Soucliet—continued. some of the best methods of preparing this dish, we prefer to adopt their spelling. The term is applied to the method of cooking small river fish, or large fish cut into pieces, by boiling them in water or court bouillon, with chopped parsley or sliced parsley-root. Cooked in this way the fish are eaten with the liquor, accompanied by brown bread-and-butter. Some good receipts for this will be found Tinder different headings, such as Flounders, Perch, &c. WEDDINGS AND WEDDING-BRE AKFASTS. —The custom of regaling a party of friends invited to the celebration of a marriage by providing an elaborate banquet has prevailed from time immemorial. It is specially mentioned m the Scriptures, when Christ turned the water into wine, and upon several other occa- sions ; and there is every reason to believe that it has maintained its high favour from the earliest records of civilisation, until it has come to be regarded as an official part of the ceremony. In every country of the world— civilised or savage—where any soi-t of nuptial form is practised, it is certain to be made the excuse for luxurious eating and drinking, that being regarded by many per- sons as the summum bonum of temporary rejoicing, especially when the happiness of others is chiefly concerned. The parents of the bride take their parting view of the daughter in the presence of friends, and whilst rejoicing at her prospects of future happiness, unselfishly invite their friends to rejoice with them. The bride and bride- groom submit to this feasting with as good grace as possible, and perform their part in it to the best of their ability. In some instances it is probable that both of those most deeply concerned in the events of the day would rather avoid the nuptial feast, and bid their friends good-bye at the church door. That such an innovation is a consummation devoutly to be desired by the bride and bridegroom may be taken for granted, and with the extension of time for performing marriage ceremonies granted by Act of Parliament, the first blow was struck at the old-fashioned Wedding-breakfast. The term “breakfast” itself becomes an anomaly when the feast is held at say three or four o’clock in the afternoon. The term, however, is likely to continue, seeing that wedding-luncheon, wedding-dinner, and wedding-feast are rather too formal and severe. Wedding-breakfast it will always remain, even though it be not served until the long hours of night. The only method of overcoming the difficulty is the present very usual plan of altering the feast and its mode of service, letting it assume rather the form of general light refreshment, served as guests choose to partake of it at an afternoon reception held by the bride’s parents. A ball or dance-party in the evening is often added. We give a coloured plate representing a very high- class Wedding-breakfast. The cloth is dressed with wreaths and designs in violets and orange-flowers, and the sides of the table are covered with a kind of “ over-skirt,” which is fastened to the edge of the table, the join being concealed by a line of flowers. This over- skirt is then looped up gracefully with trails or bunches of appropriate flowers. In the centre of the table stands the cake, and opposite to this it is customary to seat the bride and bridegroom. Customs of position differ, but that named is the most convenient for all purposes. Now comes the question of provisions. Sweets and fruits (with flowers) should be set upon the table in profusion; they are sure to find favour. Wines are best represented by champagne, hock, Moselle, Madeira, sherry, and claret, and in summer-time the attendants may serve some sort of sweet cooling cup, if the feast is to be protracted. The following dishes will be found suitable for Wed- ding-breakfasts, the choice and selection depending upon seasons and circumstances, which might be too numerous