THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 702 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. Roasted Loin of Veal —Saw the spine anil whatever hip- hone remains from a fine, white, fresh, and fat loin of Veal with the kidney. Season the loin with 1 b table- spoonfuls of salt and 1 heaped teaspoonful of pepper, and roll the flank part neatly over the kidney, tying it with string. Have ready a lightly-buttered roasting-pan, place the loin in it, pour in h wineglassful of water, dis- tribute a few bits of butter over the meat, then cover its entire length with a piece of well-buttered paper. Place the pan in a moderate oven, and roast it for one-hour-and- three quarters, meanwhile basting it frequently with its own gravy. Take it out of the oven, untie it, and place it on a hot-water dish (see Fig. 951). Add 3 table- aux 951. Roasted Loin of Veal. spoonfuls of broth to the gravy in the pan, skim otf the fat, and reduce it to the consistency of half glaze. Strain it through a sieve either over the roasted meat or into a sauce-bowl, and serve immediately. Roasted Loin of Veal d la Creme.—Prepare a loin of Veal, and roast it in front of a clear fire. Half-an-hour before it is cooked, baste it continually with cream, placing a dish underneath to catch it as it drips oil'. When lightly browned, put the Veal carefully on a hot dish. Put the drippings from the Veal in a small saucepan, with 1 teacupful of white sauce and a little more cream, and stir it over the fire till boiling; then pour it round the Veal, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. Roasted Round of Veal.—Cut a slice of Veal out of the largest diameter of the leg, remove the centre bone, and fill the cavity with a little bread stuffing. Wrap the meat in a sheet of buttered paper, fix it on the spit, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting it often. Half-an- hour before the fillet is done, remove the paper, dust a little salt over it, and let it brown nicely. When cooked, remove the meat from the spit, glaze it, put it on a hot dish, pour a little clear brown gravy over it, and serve with a separate dish of vegetables. Roasted Shoulder of Veal.—Remove the knuckle from a shoulder of Veal, and roast the fillet in front of a clear fire, basting it frequently. When cooked, put the Veal on a hot dish, garnish it with slices of lemon, and serve with a sauceboatful of oyster sauce. Polled Veal (Roulade de Veau).—(1) Bone a loin of Veal and trim it nicely. Prepare a stuffing with finely-minced bacon and breadcrumbs, seasoning them Avith grated lemon-peel, sweet herbs, pounded mace, salt and cayenne pepper, and binding it with beaten egg. Spread the mixture over the Veal, roll it, bind it up tightly to keep it in shape, put it in a stewpan, lay a few slices of fat bacon on the top, cover it with nicely-flavoured stock, and steAv it gently for four hours. When cooked, move the Veal from the fire, and let it partly cool in the stock; then drain it, put it between two dishes, place a weight on the top, and leave it till quite cold. Remove the bind- ings and brush it over with melted glaze. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, put the Veal on it, garnish it nicely with parsley, and serve. (2) Cut the bones out of about 31b. of the best end of a neck of Veal, beat the meat flat, and cover it thickly with sweet herbs, chopped parsley, pepper, and salt; lay some thin slices of fat bacon on the top, roll the meat round and bind it with broad tape to keep it in shape, Veal—continued. and roast in front of a clear quick fire for about one-hour- and-a-half, basting it often. Put the bones and trim- mings of the Veal in a saucepan with some bacon bones, three onions, |lb. of gravy beef, and a little butter, and fry for a few minutes over a quick fire; then pour in 1£ pints of water, and boil it till reduced to 1 pint, adding half-an-hour after it is put on the fire, a bunch of thyme and marjoram. Strain the gravy into another saucepan, skim off the fat, and stir in 1 teaspoonful of cornflour that has been mixed with a little water. Season with salt and pepper, and boil it till reduced to \ pint. When cooked and nicely browned, put the meat on a hob dish, pour the gravy over it, put round some spinach that has been prepared as for garnish, and serve. (3) Take out the tendons and all the rib bones from a breast of Veal, flatten and trim it, spread it all over with forcemeat, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over it, roll it up tightly, and tie it; then put it into a cloth, and stew it for several hours in broth. Take it out, remove the cloth and strings, dry and glaze it, and serve cold with rich sauce. (4) Take the bones from a small breast of Veal, and spread over it a rich Veal stuffing; over this lay four hard-boiled eggs cut lengthwise into quarters, arranging them in rows, and put green pickles between the rows; then roll the Veal up and sew it, put it into a cloth, and bind it with tape. Put it into a saucepan, lay a slice of ham over it, add a little whole pepper and some strong stock, and let it stew in this for three hours. Have ready some rich gravy, with a little lemon-juice and white wine added to it the last thing, and boiled up in it. Pour this boiling hot over the Veal when it is dished, garnish with forcemeat balls and cut green pickles, and serve. Rolled Veal Steak.—Make a stuffing of 2oz. of breadcrumbs, a little finely-chopped streaky salted pork, half an onion finely chopped, and a little pepper and salt. Mix this v eil together, and work it to a paste with a little beaten egg. Take a tender Veal steak of medium thickness, beat it flat, spread the stuffing over it, roll it up tight, and bind it evenly with twine. Lay it in a pie-dish, pour over it \ pint of boiling water, cover it with another dish, and bake for about three-quarters-of-an-hour. Take off' the cover, baste the steak with a little butter, shake a little flour over it, and leave it in the oven till brown. Then cut the twine in several places, remove it, and put the steak on a hot dish. Thicken the gravy with a little browned flour, and serve it in a sauce-tureen. Scalloped Veal.—(1) Mince some cold roasted Veal, season it with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, moisten it well with a few table-spoonfuls of cream, put it into a sauce- pan, and stir it over the fire for a feAV minutes. Fill some scallop shells with the Veal mixture, cover them with grated breadcrumbs, put a few small bits of butter in each, and brown them in an oven or under a sala mander. Put the shells on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish paper on a dish, and serve them. (2) Butter a pie-dish, and put in a layer of finely- minced cold Veal—either roasted or boiled will do—shake a little salt and pepper over it, over this put a layer of very fine breadcrumbs, put some little bits of butter over this, and moisten with a little milk, and so on, alternately, till the dish is full. Then moisten it Avell with a little warm gravy or broth, spread over all a thick layer of breadcrumbs seasoned with salt and mixed to a paste with a beaten egg and a little milk, and over this stick several little bits of butter. Turn a tin pan dov n over it to keep in the steam, and bake for half-an-hour or three- quarters-of-an-hour, according to size. Ten minutes before taking it out of the oven, take the cover off it and let it brown. Serve at once. Scotch Veal Collops.—(1) Thinly slice some Veal cutlets, put them into a frying-pan with a little boiling lard, and fry them until lightly browned on all sides. Put the collops in a stewpan with a few blanched truffles, morels, and artichoke bottoms, some slices of sweetbread, and a feAV egg balls, pour in some clear strong broth, and place