TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OP PRACTICAL COOKERY. 693 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cbe., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. Tlie Veal cutlets may be dipped in breadcrumbs and fried, and served with the tomatoes. Galantine of Veal.—(1) Take a breast of Veal, bone it, beat it as flat as possible, and sprinkle with salt, pepper, and pounded spice. Then lay the inside upwards, brush it over with beaten egg, sprinkle with finely-chop- ped sweet herbs, and lay over it in alternate layers ham fat, the chopped meat of dressed cow-heel or calf’s feet, egg balls, pickled gherkins, and French beans; sprinkle over all dissolved isinglass. Roll the Veal up tight and sew it with packthread. Wrap it in a cloth, sew it up, tie it tight at the ends, and boil in stock for three-hours- and-a-half. When the meat is done, hang it up to drain, then tie up tight at both ends, and lay between two dishes or boards, or on a dish with a board over (see Fig. 942), putting heavy weights on top till next day, when it may be untied and put on a dish. Serve cold, garnished with fresh parsley. (2) Bone a breast of Veal, beat it flat, and cover with slices of lean ham. Mix together lib. of pork sausage- meat, the thinly-pared rind of a lemon chopped very fine, chopped herbs and parsley, a very little cayenne, a small quantity of mace, the strained juice of a lemon, and the whites of three hard-boiled eggs chopped very small, and spread this forcemeat over the slices of ham. Lay the three hard-boiled yolks along the centre, and roll the Veal up tight; bind it with tape, sew it in a cloth, stew it gently for four hours, then place it between two dishes or flat boards with heavy weights on top, and leave till cold. Take it from between the boards or dishes, remove the cloth and the tapes, put it on a dish garnished with fresh parsley, and serve. (3) Bone a breast of Veal and beat it flat; dust it over with pounded spice, salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper; brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and strew finely-chopped sweet herbs over it. Next put on it alternate rows of gherkins, ham-fat, green and yellow egg balls, and calf’s feet or cow heels ready dressed. Strew some isinglass over these ingredients, roll the meat up tightly, and sew with pack- thread ; wrap a cloth tightly round it and fasten at each end. Put it into a saucepan with sufficient stock to cover, and boil it gently for three-hours-and-a-half. At the end of that time take the galantine out of the stock and hang it up until well drained. Tighten the cloth if necessary at each end, and place the galantine between two dishes with a heavy weight on it, and leave until the next day. When serving the galantine, cut it into slices, arrange on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, and garnish with parsley. (4) Bone a shoulder of Veal (this part is considered best for the purpose because it is juicier), trim off some of the inside meat to make it thinner, spread it out on the table, and dust over with salt, pepper, and mixed spices. Put the bones in a saucepan with two calf’s feet that have been partly boned and blanched, pour in some water, and boil them over a moderate'fire; or a ready-made jelly may be added. Trim away the sinews of the meat that was cut off the shoulder, and cut the meat into small pieces. When the feet are tender, drain them, remove the remainder of the bones, chop the meat finely, and mix it with the chopped Veal. Season the mixture with salt and spices, and a third of its quantity of chopped cooked ham and fat bacon. Spread the forcemeat over the shoulder, roll it to an oblong shape, and sew with packthread. Wrap the galantine in a cloth, put it in a braising-pan, pour in the liquor m which the V eal—continued. calf’s feet were cooked and some toppings of broth, and put the pan over the fire. When the liquor boils, move the pan to the side, and keep it boiling slowly for two- hours-and-a-half. When cooked, take the galantine out of the napkin, and wrap it up again tighter in the same cloth, tying it with string. Put the galantine between two dishes with a weight on the top, and leave it till cold. When ready, take the napkin off the galantine, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze, garnish with shapes of aspic jelly, and serve. (5) Bone the breast, spread it on a board, and beat flat; cut off a little of the meat at each end so that the skin will project. Finely chop all the trimmings of meat, and mix with them an equal quantity of chopped fat bacon, some small squares of truffles, tongue, and pistachio- nuts ; season the mixture with salt and pepper, and spread it over the Veal. Roll the breast carefully over the stuff- ing, fasten it at the end, wrap it in a cloth, and bind round with broad tape to keep it in shape. Put the galantine in a braising-pan with some thin stock, and braise it for six hours. When cooked, take the galantine out, drain it, and leave it till cold. Cut the tape and remove the cloth from the galantine, glaze it, put it on a folded napkin or dish-paper on a dish, and serve. (6) Bone a breast of Veal, and season it well with salt and pepper. Spread a layer of ham forcemeat on the Veal, then some slices of boiled ham; continue in this way till 21b. of ham and 2|lb. of forcemeat have been used, then roll the Veal up and bind it round with twine. Wrap the Veal in a strong piece of cloth, and sew it on. Put 4lb. of the knuckle of Veal in a large saucepan with two calf’s feet, the bones of the breast, one onion, a small quantity of carrot and turnip, two or three small pieces of celery, 1 table-spoonful each of peppercorns and salt, three cloves, and 3qts. of water. When boiling, put in the rolled breast of Veal, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep the liquor simmering for three hours. When cooked, take the breast of Veal out of the sauce- pan, remove the cloth, and wrap it up in another piece that has been dipped in cold water. Press the Veal under a weight till the following morning. Take the weight and cloth ott’ the Veal, put it on a dish, and brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze. Garnish with croutons of aspic jelly, and serve. Glazed Cushion of Veal.—Trim a cushion of Veal, letting the udder remain, and stud the sides and top with alternate fillets of raw ham and fat bacon. Dust pepper and salt over the meat, put it into a square stewpan with some chopped bacon, and fry over a quick fire, turning it several times. When nicely browned all over, put in a few' small onions and one sliced carrot; pour in 1 pint of broth, and put in a few fresh pieces of bacon rind. Put the lid on the stev'pan, place it over a very slow fire, and cook the meat, reducing the moisture. When cooked, drain the meat, place it on a bed of chicory that has been finished with some of the gravy of the Veal and spread on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of the cooking stock. Grenadins of Veal.—(1) Cut some cold fillet of Veal into thick slices, and chop each slice into rounds with a tin cutter about Him in diameter. Lard the rounds with strips of fat bacon ; put into a stewpan 2 breakfast-cup- fuls of clear stock, and boil it until reduced to half its former quantity; put in the grenadins, with a piece of loaf sugar, salt to taste, a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and sufficient browning to give the sauce a rich colour, and stew gently till the bacon is cooked; then arrange the grenadins in a circle on a hot dish (see Fig. 943). Mix 1