755 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. W alnuts—co ntinued. a small bird can peck through it, hence its name. The Long-beaked Walnut (see Fig. 1028) has an elongation at the flower end which gives it a peculiar appearance before it is shelled. Walnuts can be preserved from one year to another by removing the green husks, drying the shells thoroughly, Fig. 1028. Long-beaked Walnut. and then packing the nuts in layers in jars or boxes, and covering them with dried silver sand. When wanted for use, all that is necessary is to dust them and wipe them with a clean cloth. If the kernels are at all shrivelled, it is a good plan to soak them for a few hours in warmed milk. Green Walnuts.—These should be gathered as early in the year as they are fully grown without the shell having formed in the interior. By testing one or two of the largest on the tree, the condition of the others may be guessed. Let them rather be too young than too old. The following are good receipts for their use: Compote of Green Walnuts.—Split the Walnuts through their natural division with the point of a knife, then pass the knife round the inner part of the shell and extract the kernel. Free the nuts from the white pith, and put them in cold water that has been acidulated with lemon - juice. Drain the Walnuts, pile them in a heap in a compotier, pour over them some syrup that has been flavoured with white noyau, and serve. Conserve of Green Walnuts. -Procure the Walnuts before the shell has formed, peel the green rinds oft’, place the Walnuts in a basin, pour boiling water over them, covering them well, put a plate over the basin, and leave them until the water has cooled a little. Then strain it off, and pour over fresh boiling water. In a quarter of an hour’s time, cover them again with fresh boiling water, straining the other away, and then when that has cooled plunge the Walnuts into cold water and leave them for lialf-an-hour. For one hundred Walnuts put into a pre- serving-pan 21b. of crushed loaf sugar and li pints of water, the juice of one lemon, and the white of one egg. Boil the sugar over the fire until dissolved, then strain the syrup through a fine hair sieve and return it to the pan. Cut half a stick of vanilla into small pieces a,nd put them in the syrup. Wipe the Walnuts quite dry on a ' cloth, put them in the syrup, and boil until soft. Leave the Walnuts in the syrup until cold, then pack them in jars; pour their syrup over them, cover the jars with stout paper, tie down securely, and pack away in a dry store-cupboard till required for use. Pickled Walnuts.—(1) Scald a hundred Walnuts before they have hard shells, and rub off the first skin. Put them in a jar with some strong cold brine, changing it on the third and sixth days. On the ninth day take the Walnuts out and dry them. Put in a mortar loz. each of long pepper pods, black pepper, ginger, and allspice, loz. of cloves, two or three blades of mace, and 1 table-spoonful of white mustard seed, and pound them together. Put a layer of the Walnuts in a jar, then strew them well over with a layer of the mixture, and proceed in the same | Walnuts—continued. manner till all are covered. Boil 3qts. of vinegar with some sliced horseradish and ginger, and pour it while hot into the jar. Strain the vinegar off and boil it up every day for three or four days, pouring it hot each time over Fig. 1029. Pickled Walnuts. the Walnuts, and always keeping them closely covered; put a few cloves of garlic in the vinegar when boiling it the last time. In six months’ time the pickles will be ready for use. Serve them in a flat glass dish (see Fig. 1029). (2) Procure the Walnuts before the shells are hard; wrap each one separately in a vine leaf, and put them in a jar with some more vine-leaves to prevent them touch- ing each other. Cover the nuts with best vinegar, close the jar to exclude the air, and let it stand for twenty days. At the end of that time strain the vinegar off the nuts, wrap them in fresh vine-leaves, pack them in the jar again in the same manner as before, and cover with fresh vinegar. In a fortnight’s time take the Walnuts out of the leaves, and put them in a jar. Mix together sufficient brine (strong enough to float an egg) and white wine vinegar to cover the Walnuts, put in it 4oz. each of cloves and nutmeg, loz. of mace, and two peeled and sliced heads of garlic. Boil the vinegar for fifteen minutes, then pour it while hot over the Walnuts. Tie the jar tightly over with bladder and leather, and keep it in a cool dry place. (3) Select the requisite quantity of large French Walnuts, and peel them until the white part is just visible, taking care not to cut too deep; throw each Walnut as it is done into a basin of salted water. Next drain them, put them into a lined saucepan with plenty of salt, and cover with boiling water. Boil them quickly for ten minutes, then take them out of the water, lay them on a cloth that has been spread over a sieve, cover with another cloth, and leave them until cold. Pack the Walnuts into wide mouthed glass bottles, putting a blade of mace in each bottle, and fill them up with strong vinegar; pour in each a few drops of salad-oil. Stopper the bottles, and keep them in a cool, diy store-cup- board. (4) Gather the Walnuts when they may easily be pierced with a pin. Score them on one side with a knife, or run a large needle through them in three or four places; put them into salted water and let them steep in it for twelve days, changing the brine twice. Then put them into jars and sprinkle very sparingly with salt. For one hundred nuts boil lgall. of vinegar with one head of garlic, ioz. of ginger slightly crushed, loz. of whole pepper, ioz. of allspice, ioz. of nutmeg sliced or broken, and 1 table-spoonful each of scraped horseradish and mustard added for each quart; pour it boiling into the jars over the nuts, and cover each jar with a plate. When the pickle is quite cold, cover the jars close and tie them down. When the nuts are all used, the liquor may be boiled, then strained and bottled for use in flavouring sauces, &c. (5) Take some green unripe Walnuts, run a larding- needle through them in two or three jdaces, put them into a brine made with lib. of salt to each quart of water, and let them steep in this for a week. Then put them into a stewpan with some of the brine, and give them a gentle simmer; drain them on a sieve, lay them on a plate with a drainer, and let them stand in the air till they turn black; this may perhaps take two days. Put them into glass jars, about three-parts filling them. Put the vinegar to cover them into a iarge stone jar, adding for each quart 2oz. of whole black pepper, loz. each of whole ginger, salt, and shallots, boz. of allspice, and l drachm of For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 c 2