THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 775 tor details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Widgeon—continued. Widgeon (Moreca penelope) comes to this country from the North in the end of September, and remains until the beginning of April. It is very tame for a wild bird, and feeds principally upon grass. Widgeons should be cooked as follows : Grilled Widgeons.—Remove the head, neck, and wing- bones from a brace of Widgeons, split them down the back, and truss as for spatchcock. Take out the breast bones, and ml) the interior of the birds with mushroom powder. Put the bones and trimmings of the birds into a stewpan with their gizzards and livers, 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, 1 wineglassful of port wine, pepper and salt, and cayenne to taste, a small quantity of brown stock, and boil gently for half-an-hour. Lay the birds on a gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire, turning them when done on one side. When cooked, lay the birds on a hot dish, squeeze the juice of half a lemon in the gravy, and strain it over them. Serve while very hot. Mallard or pintail can be used in place of Widgeons, if preferred. Roasted Widgeons.—Pluck and singe a pair of Widgeons, cut off the heads and claws, draw the birds without breaking the entrails, and wipe them with a wet cloth ; rub them all over with cold butter, dredge them with flour, and either roast them before a hot fire for fifteen minutes, or bake them for about twenty minutes. Carefully preserve all the gravy that flows from them, and when ■nearly done dust them with salt and pepper. Serve at once with their gravy and red-currant jelly, or with orange essence made as follows: Chop very fine two peeled shallots or one onion, grate the yellow rind of a large orange, and chop loz. of ham or bacon very fine; put these ingredients into a small saucepan, add to them a slight dust of cayenne pepper, A pint of gravy from roasted wild fowl, 1 gill of port wine, and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and simmer gently for ten minutes. Meanwhile squeeze the juice from a whole orange and half a lemon into a sauce- boat. At the end of ten minutes strain the sauce into the orange- and lemon-juice, and serve it at once. WILD BOAR.—See Boar. WILD DUCK.—A common name for this bird is the Mallard, from which the domestic Duck has descended. Its flesh is considered coarser than the tame Duck, and is apt to taste fishy. It is cleaned and trussed like an ordinary Duck, and may be cooked in the same way, or as follows: Boiled Wild Duck.—(1) Prepare and dress a Wild Duck, stuff it with a chopped small onion, pepper, salt, and a table-spoonful of red wine ; then put it in a saucepan with sufficient water to make a gravy, stand it over a brisk fire, and cook for fifteen or twenty minutes. Dish it, pom- over a rich brown gravy, and serve. (2) Singe, draw, and wipe the Duck, split it open down the back, and put it in a saucepan with a little water, butter, pepper, and salt, and boil slowly till tender. Sprinkle a little Hour into the liquor, and simmer for another five minutes. Dish the Duck, and serve with the gravy poured over it. Broiled Wild Ducks.—Pick, singe, draw, and well wipe two M ild Ducks, split them down the back without detaching, place them skin downwards on a dish, season with salt and pepper, and pour over 2 table-spoonfuls of oil. Roll the birds well in this marinade, put them on a broiler over a brisk fire, and broil for seven minutes on each side. Fig. 1057. Broiled Wild Ducks. 1 lace them on a hot dish, cover over with maitre-d’hotel butter, garnish with watercress (see Fig. 1057), and serve. Wild Duck—continued. Fillets of Wild Ducks.—Prepare and roast the Ducks as for Fillets of Wild Ducks with Game Sauce, keeping them rather underdone. 'When cooked, remove the fillets from the breasts and trim them neatly. Cut as many crofttons of bread as there are fillets, and fry them in butter till of a golden brown colour. Chop the livers of the Ducks, season with pepper, salt, and finely-minced parsley, and work in a small quantity of butter. Spread the croutons with a layer of the liver mixture, thicker in the middle than at the sides, place them for a few minutes in a hot oven, and then brown them with a salamander. Arrange the fillets and croutons in a circle on a hot dish alternately, pour in the centre some game sauce with a few mild stoned olives in it, and serve. Fillets of Wild Ducks (au Fumet de Gibier).—Roast the Ducks as for Fillets of Wild Duck with Game Sauce, and when cooked take them up and cut the fillets off the breasts; put the trimmings and backbones into a saucepan, having cliopiied them up small, add a little chopped onion, carrot, turnip, and celery, two or three sprigs of thyme and parsley, a bay-leaf, a clove, a small piece of mace, and 1 wineglassful of sherry, and boil for five minutes; then pour in 1 pint of brown sauce and ^ pint of broth, and boil quickly for twenty minutes. Skim well, and strain through a fine hair sieve. Trim the fillets neatly and warm them up again in the sauce, then put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Fillets of Wild Duck with. Game Sauce.—Draw and pre- pare the birds for roasting, wrap them round with slices of vegetables and bacon, then with paper, and roast them. When cooked, cut off the fillets and keep them hot. Break up the backbones, put them in a saucepan with a chopped shallot, A teacupful of port wine, and a little glaze, and set it over the fire for two or three minutes; then pour in 1 pint of brown sauce and a little more than A pint of broth, and boil for a few minutes. Strain through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, boil it quickly till it sticks to the back of the spoon, and then season it with cayenne, salt, and lemon-juice. It should be kept well skimmed. Put. the fillets on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Fillet of Wild Ducks with Grouse Puree.—Truss and roast the Ducks in front of a clear fire. Pick off all the flesh from the bones of a roast grouse, chop it, and pound it in a mortar. Break the bones, put them in a saucepan with a small piece of carrot, onion, turnip, two or three sprigs of thyme and parsley, and 1 wineglassful of white wine, and stir them over the fire for a few minutes, then pour in lqt. of veloute sauce and 1 pint of veal stock. Boil the sauce till somewhat reduced, then mix with it 1 teacupful of cream and 1 teaspooiiful of moist sugar, and pass it through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan. Put the pounded flesh of the grouse into the sauce, boil for ten minutes, and then mb it through a silk sieve. When cooked, cut off the fillets from the Ducks, trim, and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish ; turn the puree of grouse into the centre, and serve very hot. Fillets of Wild Ducks with. Orange Sauce (au Bigarade). —(1) Fillet three Wild Ducks, score the skin, and put them in a bowl with onions cut in halves, a few sprigs of parsley, and mushroom ketchup; season with salt, peppercorns, and cover with oil. When the fillets have steeped in this marinade for an hour, take them out, put them in a frying-pan with a little oil, and fry them over a sharp fire, turning occasionally. When done, drain, arrange on a dish in a circular form, and serve with orange sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Cut the fillets from the breast of one or two roasted \\ ild Ducks, trim them neatly, and keep them hot. Break up the legs and backs of the Ducks, put them in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of sherry and a few sprigs of parsley, and set them over the fire for a few minutes. Pour 1 pint of broth over the bones, and boil it for ten minutes, then skim and pass the liquor through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan. Boil the sauce till reduced to a half glaze, then pour in a little more than