TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 749 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Violets—continued. with it. Flavour it with 2 wineglassfuls of kirschen- wasser or brandy, pour it into a mould, and pack in ice. When the jelly has set quite firm, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, then turn it quickly over on to a fancy dish (see Fig. 1014). Garnish with candied Violets, and serve. Violet Marmalade.—Put 441b. of Violets picked from their stalks into a mortar, and bruise and pound them to a pulp. Clarify 61b. of loaf sugar, and boil to the blow (see Sugar-boiling) ; add the pulped flowers, mix them well in, and stir in 3lb. of apple marmalade; let it boil up a few times, stirring and mixing well, put the marma- lade into pots, and cover air-tight. Violet Rock Candy.—Pick the petals off some Violets. Boil some powdered white sugar to the blow (see SuGAR- BOILING). Have a tin candying-pan shaped like a dripping- pan, and about 3in. deep; pour the boiled sugar into it, strew the petals of the Violets as thickly as possible on top, put it into a hot stove, anti let it remain there for ten days. When it is hard candied, break a hole in one corner of the sugar, drain out all the syrup, break the candy out in pieces, heap them on a tin, and dry in a stove. Violet Sherbet.—Put about lib. of freshly-gathered Violet flowers on a dish with 5lb. of caster sugar, and rub well together until the sugar is of the same colour as the Violets. Put it into jars, and cover them air- tight. To make a most refreshing beverage of the above mixture, dissolve 2 or 3 teaspoonfuls of it in a tumbler of water; it will be found delightful in the hot summer days. Violet Vinegar.—This vinegar should be made in the spring time, when the Violets are plentiful. Gather the required quantity of wood Violets, remove their stalks, and pack them closely into wide-mouthed glass bottles. Fill the bottles with the best vinegar, cork them tightly, and keep them in the sun or a warm place for a month. At the end of that time strain the vinegar off the Violets, and put it into small bottles ready for use. VIRGIN CREAM.—See Cream. VIVO.—The name of a beef tea for which special virtues are claimed. VODKA.—A very inferior kind of rye whisky made in Russia, and so commonly consumed that the term has become synonymous of a drink generally. To take a Vodka means in Russia neither more nor less than to take a dram. VOL-AU-VENTS.—These may be described as light puff paste with a raised border, filled with a savoury or cream ragout (see Fig. 1015).. As they give the cook an opportunity of displaying his skill in the manufacture of French pastry, a few receipts for the manufacture of specially named Vol-au-Vents are given hereunder: Vol-au-Vents a la Chantilly.—Take lib. of puff paste, give it six-and-a-lialf turns, roll it out to about Jin. thick, and Vol -au-vents—continued. with a fluted cutter cut out about twoand-a-half-dozen pieces. Form them into rings by cutting out the centres with a cutter about ljin. in diameter. With the trimmings of the paste prepare an equal number of rings the same size, brush them over with egg, put one of the other rings on each, press them so as to adhere, put them on a baking-sheet, brush over with egg, put them into a quick oven, and bake. When nearly done, dust them with sugar, and put them back into the oven to glaze and finish cooking. Take them out, fill them with any kind of cream, and serve. Vol-au-Vent a la Financiere.—Prepare lib. of puff paste, and roll it out to 2Jin. in thickness. Cut a round out of the paste with a tin cutter, brush the round over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, without touching the sides, and with a knife, the point held slanting inwards towards the centre, make a circular incision, pressing the inner paste well to prevent it closing up again. Make a lid with some of the remaining paste to fit in the well of the Vol-au-Vent, brush the top over with beaten egg, put the paste on a baking-sheet, and bake for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan, stir it over the fire till well mixed, then pour in gradually 1 pint of stock, and continue stir- ring over the fire till boiling. Put 1 wineglassful of sherry, 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, and a little cayenne pepper in the sauce, move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for fifteen minutes for the pur- pose of clarifying it; then skim it, put in a piece of glaze, place it on the tire, and boil quickly for five minutes longer. When the glaze has dissolved, strain the sauce through a line hair sieve into another stewpan, put in it two partially-boiled veal sweetbreads, three or four cocks’ combs, and a few truffles and mushrooms, all cut into rather small pieces. Boil the sauce gently till the sweetbreads, &c., are cooked, then season to taste with salt and pepper. When cooked, take the Vol-au-Vent out of the oven, remove the centre carefully without damaging the case, pour the above mixture into it, and cover with the lid. Place the Vol-au-Vent on a folded napkin or a dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve while very hot. If the cases are made and cooked before the mixture to fill them is ready, they can always be put in the oven and warmed again. Vol-au-Vents au Fraises.—Prepare 111), of puff paste, giving it six-and-a-lialf turns; roll it out to about Jin. thick, and with a fluted cutter 2in. in diameter cut out about two-and-a-half-dozen rounds. Cut away the centre of these with a cutter 1 Jin. in diameter. Work up the remainder of the paste, and with it form an equal number of rings cut out in the same way. Put them one on top of another. Have ready 4oz. of sugar boiled to the caramel (sec Sugar boiling), dip the tops of the Vol-au-Vents in it, and afterwards into coarsely-sifted loaf sugar, and bake in a quick oven. Put 3oz. more of sugar into the saucepan with the caramel, reduce it again to caramel, then add about 1 teacupful of the strained juice of straw- berries. Fill the Vol-au-Vent cases with whole strawberries, cover with the syrup, and serve. Vol-au-Vent a la Normande.—Prepare a puff paste with lib. each of flour and butter and Joz. of salt. Boll the paste out to fin. thick, and cut it round to the size of the dish on which it is to be served. Put the flat of paste on a baking-sheet, brush it over with beaten egg, and cut a