THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 700 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <i-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal —continued. dissolved, them pour it over the sweetbreads and eggs, and serve immediately. Noix of Veal Saute.—Trim off the skin and cut a noix of Veal into small round pieces about H-in. in diameter, beat and trim them neatly. Put Jib. of butter into a saute-pan, place it over a good fire, and when melted put in the pieces of meat with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley and scallions; toss them until cooked, them place them on a hot dish. Pour b pint of stiffly-reduced veloute sauce into the pan with the butter, stir it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side and stir in quickly the yolks of two eggs that have been well beaten with 2 table spoonfuls of cream. Pour the sauce over the meat, and serve. Paupiettes of Veal.—(1) Finely chop f ib. of lean Veal, and mix with it a little finely-chopped kidney-suet and streaky bacon. Season the mince with sweet herbs, sage, a point of garlic, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and bind the mixture with a beaten egg. Cut some slices off a loin of Veal, and chop them into small oblongs, trimming off all the sinewy parts. Beat the collops lightly, dust a little salt and pepper over them, and put a small quantity of the above mixture on each. Fold over the edges of the collops, then roll them into a long shape, and run a skewer through them, putting a thin slice of ham between each. Dredge some flour over the paupiettes, put them in a flat stewpan with some clarified butter, and bake till nicely browned. When cooked, arrange the paupiettes on a hot dish, pour the butter in which they were cooked over them, garnish with quarters of lemon (see Fig. 949), and serve. (2) Cut 21b. of Veal off the leg into six thin slices. Pare them to the size of the hand, and season with 1 table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Cover them with any kind of forcemeat, roll, and tie together with string. Put them in a saute-pan with scraps of pork, adding half a sliced carrot and half a sliced onion, cover with a bard of larding-pork on top, and brown for ten minutes. Moisten with 1 gill of white broth, cover with buttered paper, and put in the oven to finish cooking for twenty-five minutes. Serve with J pint of puree of lentils mixed with 2 table spoonfuls of cream, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Paupiettes of Veal with Puree of Chestnuts. -The same as for Paupiettes of Veal (2), using \ pint of hot puree of chestnuts in place of lentils. Paupiettes of Veal with d’Uxelles Sauce.—The same as for Paupiettes of Veal (2), putting J pint of d’Uxelles sauce on the dish and arranging the paupiettes over it. Pickled Fillet of Veal.—Lard a thick slice of Veal that has been cut off the leg with some fillets of anchovies; put it in a deep dish, dust some salt and pepper over, cover with vinegar, and let it macerate for seven or eight hours. Drain and dry the slice of Veal, take out the bone from the centre, rub it over with flour, and fry it in olive oil over a slow fire till nicely browned on both sides, then put it on a hot dish. Squeeze the juice of a lemon m the frying-pan, stir it over the fire, then pour it over the Veal, and serve. Potted Veal.—(1) Take a cutlet of fillet of Veal weighing about fib. or more, season to taste with peppercorns, cloves, and mace, put it into a potting-pan that will only just hold it, fill up the pan with water, and bake for three hours. Put it into a mortar, and pound it fine with salt to taste and loz. or 2oz. of butter slightly warmed. If it be for immediate use, a little of the gravy it was V eal—continued. baked in may be used to moisten it in the mortar ; if to be kept any time, do not use anything but the butter. When beaten to a fine smooth paste, press it into pots, and pour over sufficient butter melted to oil to cover it about Jin. deep. (2) Put lib. of lean Veal into a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, the juice of a lemon, pepper, salt, sifted mace, allspice, cloves, nutmegs, cinnamon, and mushroom powder, using a small quantity of each, also a little thyme, sweet herbs, and a small onion chopped fine. Stew for ten minutes, then pound them ; add lib. of the mellow part of a boiled tongue beaten to a paste, Jib. of cold butter, and mix all well together with two well-beaten eggs; then press the mixture down tight in small pots, cover with paper, and put them into a moderate oven. Bake for twenty minutes, pour over some clarified butter, and they are ready for use, and will keep a long time. Potted Veal and Ham.—Pound some nicely-seasoned cold Veal to a smooth paste with a small quantity of butter, press a layer of it into a pot, put over it a layer of ham, either shred fine or pounded, and press it down. Fill the jar or pot with alternate layers of pounded Veal or chicken and the shred ham, pressing each well down as it is laid in. Cover the top with a layer of butter melted to oil, about Jin. deep. Quenelles of Veal.—Trim off the fat from lib. of Veal, chop it, put it into a mortar, and pound it. Put 1 break- fast-cupful of breadcrumbs into a saucepan with b pint of milk, and stir them over the fire till smooth, then leave them till cool. Mix the pounded Veal and bread- crumbs together, season them with a small quantity of grated nutmeg, the juice of half a lemon, pepper and salt, and add b pint of white sauce, the yolks of four eggs (one at a time), and then the well-whisked whites of the eggs. Melt a lump of butter in a frying-pan. Mould the mixture into quenelles with two table-spoons, which should be dipped in hot water each time a fresh quenelle is moulded. Slip the quenelles off the spoons into the frying-pan, and when all are finished, cover them with boiling white stock and cook them for twenty minutes. Prepare a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish. When cooked, drain the quenelles, put them on the border, with 1 table-spoonful of bechamel sauce on each, pour some bechamel sauce in the centre of the dish, and serve the quenelles at once. Quenelles of Veal a la Toulouse.—Chop about fib. of Veal, put it in a mortar, pound it, and mix with it two- thirds of its quantity of ground rice panada and the same of butter. Mix them well, stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs, and season with salt and pepper. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. Take two table-spoons, fill one with the forcemeat, and put the other in hot water; smooth the surface of the forcemeat in the spoon with the blade of a knife, then scoop it out with the other spoon, removing the quenelle at one jerk, and drop it in a saute pan, the bottom of which has been covered with butter. Continue moulding the quenelles in this