715 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. smooth; then take them off and leave them till cold, adding beforehand 1 breakfast-cupful of butter, 2 table- spoonfuls of salt, J teaspoonful of pepper, 2 table-spoonfuls of onion-juice, 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, and a little grated nutmeg. When cold, mix the pounded meat with the above mixture and the beaten yolks of six eggs, and it is ready for use. Veal Forcemeat (for Balls or Stuffing).—Take some lean Veal, chop it up line, and put it into a mortar with one-third its quantity of either finely-shredded suet or butter, and the same of crumbs taken from a stale house- hold loaf and put in a basin with a little milk, and when thoroughly saturated taken out and squeezed diy; pound these well, adding a little grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste. Beat up the yolks of two eggs, pour it into the mixture to bind it, make it a firm paste, and use it either made into balls and fried, or as a stuffing. Veal Forcemeat (for Boiled Turkey).—Take {,1b. of lean Veal, chop it finely with a little beef-suet, a few oysters, and two anchovies, and add some breadcrumbs mixed with the yolks of eggs and a few herbs. When the turkey is prepared for boiling, stuff the crop with the forcemeat, and boil. Veal Forcemeat Balls (for Mock Turtle Soup). Take the crumb of two or three French rolls, put it into a saucepan with sufficient rich gravy to cover it, place the pan on the side of the fire, and let it boil gently until quite done. Take it out, squeeze out all the liquor, put it into another saucepan over the fire, and stir till it is quite dry; then add the yolks of two eggs, and let it cool. Put Jib. of lean Veal into a mortar, pound it well, and add the breadcrumb mixture and 3oz. of butter. Add a little grated nutmeg, mace, cayenne, and salt to season it, and if liked a little well pounded lean ham. Roll the paste into balls, and boil them for twelve minutes before putting them into mock turtle soup. Veal Forcemeat Cutlets.—Chop well two or three times in *tlie machine 21b. of lean Veal, cut from the hip if possible, place the meat in a bowl with 2oz. of finely- chopped raw Veal-suet, season with 1 good pinch of salt, J pinch of pepper, and J pinch of nutmeg, add J breakfast-cupful of good cream, one chopped shallot, and two raw eggs, anil mix well together. Roll the mass out Fig. 964. Cutlet-cutters. to Jin. thick, cut out some cutlets with any kind of cutlet- cutter (see Fig. 964), sprinkle them with breadcrumbs, and fry in a pan with 2oz. of clarified butter for four minutes on each side. Serve with any kind of sauce. Veal Forcemeat Stuffing for Fish.—Make 4oz. of bread panada, and mix it with Jib. of finely-minced cooked Veal, 2oz. each of chopped fat salt pork and suet, the juice of half a lemon, J teaspoonful each of powdered thyme and savory, and a small quantity of ground mace; add a seasoning to taste of salt and pepper, and bind the whole with a beaten egg. The stuffing is then ready for use. Of course, it can be made in larger or smaller quantities, according to the size of the fish. Veal Fricadelles.—(1) Finely chop 21b. of lean Veal and about 3oz. of cooked ham. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of bread- crumbs in a saucepan with J pint of milk, and stir it over the fire until cooked to a smooth paste, taking care it does not burn at the bottom. Mix the bread with the chopped Veal and ham, season the mixture with salt, pepper, and the juice of half a lemon, and work in with it Jib. of butter. When well mixed, divide the mixture into small equal-sized portions, roll them into balls, and then dip them in beaten egg. Put Jib. of butter into Veal—continued. a frying-pan, and when hot put in the balls and fry them till lightly browned. Every care must be taken not to burn them. Take the balls-out of the frying-pan, and stir into the butter 3 table-spoonfuls of flour. When dark brown,- turn the flour into the saucepan, pour in gradually 1J pints of stock, and when boiling put in the balls. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire and let the con- tents simmer slowly for an hour. Turn the fricadelles and gravy on to a hot dish, garnish with slices of lemon and sipjiets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. (2) German.—Finely chop some uncooked lean Veal with half its bulk of lean ham, add chopped parsley, thyme, and lemon-peel in moderate quantities, and season t6 taste with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a small quantity of cayenne. For lib. of the mixture, work in 1 teacupful of crushed biscuit- or cracker-crumbs, 3oz. of butter, and three eggs that have been well beaten with J teacupful of water. When well incorporated, mould the mixture to an oval or round shape, flatten it, put it in a baking-dish with about 2oz. of butter cut up into small pieces, strew plenty of biscuit-crumbs over the top, and bake it in a brisk oven until browned, basting it occasion- ally with the butter in the dish. Just before taking the fri'adelle out of the oven, pour over it 3 or 4 table- spoonfuls of cream. Prepare a nicely-flavoured brown sauce, thickening it with flour and butter kneaded together. When cooked, lift it carefully out of the baking-dish, place it on a hot dish, pour the gravy round it, and serve. Veal Fricassee with Scorzonera.—Put a breast of Veal cut in small pieces into a stewpan with about 2oz. of butter, put the lid on, and stand it close to the edge of the fire for half-an-hour. Wash some scorzonera, cut it into pieces about 2in. long, put them in with the meat with a piece of lemon peel and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, pour in sufficient water to make a good quan- tity of sauce, put the lid on the pan, and stew the con- tents until tender. When cooked, strain some of the liquor off the meat into a basin, beat it with the yolks of two eggs, and then return it to the stewpan. Let it remain at the side of the fire until thick, but without boiling it again. Turn the fricassee on to a hot dish, garnish it with slices of lemon, and serve. Veal Gravy.—Take lib. of lean ham cut in slices and a knuckle of Veal cut up, and put them in a well- buttered stewpan with any bones of chickens and rabbits which may be handy; put 2qts. of stock over this, cover it up, and boil down to a glaze. When it is deep red, fill up vdtli stock ; as soon as it boils, skim it well, add three or four cloves, two blades of mace, three carrots, and the same amount of chopped-up celery, turnips, and onions. Let it simmer for two or three hours, and strain it through a tammy sieve into a pan to cool for use. Veal Gravy Soup.—Put two or three pieces of butter into a stewpan, then a few slices of ham, slices of Veal cutlet, sliced onions, carrots, turnips, celery, and a few cloves. Pour in 1 table-spoonful of broth, and sweat the ingredients over a slow fire till the meat throws out ite juice; then put the stewpan over a quick fire and fry the contents till nicely browned. Put a bunch of sweet herbs in the stewpan, pour in about 3 pints of clear broth, and let it simmer gently till the meat is cooked. Pour the soup into a tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Veal Ham.—Trim a leg of Veal to the shape of a ham. Mix together 1 pint of bay-salt, lib. of common salt, 2oz. of saltpetre, loz. of powdered cinnamon, and loz. of powdered juniper-berries. Rub the meat well with this mixture, and lay it on a tray with the skin downwards. Baste it well every day for a fortnight. At the end of that time, hang the meat over wood smoke for a fortnight. Afterwards boil it, or partially boil and tlien roast it. Veal-and-Ham Fritters.—Put lib. of flour on a table, and make a dent in the middle, in which put 1 salt- spoonful of salt and 3 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter; mix it well, pour in sufficient water to make a softish