THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. V egetables—continued. for adding to soup; and sauces that require colouring and Vegetable flavour, and is always ready to hand and useful. Jardiniere of Vegetables.—Prepare as for Macedoine of Vegetables (1), substituting J pint of hot Madeira sauce for the bechamel. Macedoine of Vegetables.—(1) Cut a ; mall raw carrot with a Vegetable-scoop, put it into salted boiling water, and cook for fifteen minutes; repeat the operation with a small raw turnip, cooking each separately. Drain, and place them in a saucepan with i gill of cooked peas, the same quantity of cooked Jin. lengths of French beans, 2 table spoonfuls of cooked flagejlets, and a small piece of cauliflower. Moisten with \ pint of hot bechamel sauce, and season with \ pinch each of salt and pepper and J pinch of nutmeg. Let it simmer well for ten minutes, and use as required. (2) Wash and scrape some carrots, wash and peel some turnips, and cut them with a \ egetable-scoop to the shape of olives or fluted olives. Cut some French beans across slantwise in the shape of lozenges, and cut some asparagus-points to the size of peas. Take equal quantities each of these Vegetables, peas, and fresh haricot beans, and boil each Vegetable separately in salted water, adding to the water in which the peas, carrots, and turnips are boiled, a small quantity of sugar as well as salt. Do not over boil any of them. Drain them very dry, mix them together, and they are ready for use. (3) German Style.—Peel and wash some carrots and turnips, and cut them like olives. Cut some French beans into small diamond-shaped pieces. Take equal portions of the above Vegetables, with an equal quantity of freshly shelled young peas, and boil them all separately" in salted water. Thicken a breakfast-cupful ol milk with flour, and stir it over the fire till boiling; then mix with it about J teacupful of common stock and Joz. of butter, and move the saucepan to the side of the fire. Beat the yolks of two eggs, strain them, ami stir them gradually into the sauce, turning the spoon one way only. When the Vegetables are cooked, drain them, arrange them on a hot • dish, pour the above sauce over them, garnish with sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter, and serve. Vegetable Consomme.—Take 2lb. each of carrots and onions, cut them up into slices, and put them into astewpan with lib. of butter, a little thyme, parsley, celery, and shallot. Place the pan on the fire, and fry them till they are of a slight colour ; then add 5qts. of water, boil them up, and skim well. Next add lqt. each of green peas and white haricot beans, a little grated nutmeg, three cloves, Joz. of whole pepper, and ljoz. of salt, place the pan on the side of the fire, and let it simmer for three hours. Remove the fat, and pass the broth through a napkin to strain it, when it will be quite ready for use. If green peas and fresh haricot beans are not in season, the following may be substituted: Take lqt. of lentils, and boil them in 1J galls, of water with lqt. of white haricot beans, adding a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and a little salt. Let it simmer for three hours. Strain it through a cloth, and pour it on to the fried Vegetables. Vegetable Entree.—Surround a beetroot with a water paste, and bake it. On no account cut or prick it before it is put into the paste. When tender, unwrap the beet, and let it get cold. Put \ pint of small white haricot beans in a saucepan with a piece of the heart of a Spanish onion, a lump of salt, J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and cold water to cover them, and boil them gently. When tender, strain and pass the beans through a fine hair sieve. Mix with them half their quantity of potatoes, mashed with a little butter, add one beaten egg and 1 table-spoonful of cream, and season with small quantities | of salt and pepper and the smallest quantity of cayenne pepper, also a small quantity of finest sifted sweet herbs. Shape the mixture into small rolls with floured hands, and roll them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs. Put a lump of butter or clarified fat in a flat stewpan, and melt it; then put m the lolls, and fry them a golden brown. Arrange tastefully in the centre of a hot dish a macedoine Vegetables—continued. of hot Vegetables with rings of beetroot cut with a fluted cutter and rings of stewed tomatoes. Strain the rolls, laying them on paper for a minute or two to soak up the fat, then arrange them round the Vegetables; pour a thick white cream sauce, made with chopped Vegetables and thickened with potato flour, round the dish, and serve at once. Vegetable Floating Garnish for Soups.—Small branches of cauliflower, very small onions, celery stamped or cut into shapes, cardoons treated in the same way, lettuce, spinach, or sorrel-leaves stamped to the size of a florin or of a sixpence, may be used for this, one or more kinds of them at a time. Cook the Vegetables in a small quantity of clear soup, and put into the tureen a few minutes before serving. Vegetable Fritters.—A variety of Vegetables may be used for this dish, such as celery, salsify, and parsnip. Boii the Vegetables in water til! tender, then drain them, and cut them into small equil-sized pieces. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 1 teacupful of milk and 1 table-spoonful of oil; then sift in gradually sufficient flour to make a stiff batter, stirring it well to keep it smooth, and add 1 salt- spoonful olfsalt and 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Beat the whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth, then mix them in the batter. Put a large lump of lard into a deep frying- pan and make it hot. Dip the pieces of Vegetable into the batter, giving them a good coating with it, then drop them into the boiling fat, and fry them. When nicely browned, drain the fritters, put them on a hot dish, and serve. Vegetable Olio—Boil separately three small heads of cabbage and three each of onions, potatoes, turnips, and carrots, drain them free from water, and cut them up. Put them into a saucepan with two handfuls of spinach, 2oz. of butter, 3 table spoonfuls of cream, and a small quantity of salt and pepper, cover over the pan as closely as possible, and stew for two hours. Now stir in a small lump of butter rolled in flour, turn all out on to a dish, and serve. Vegetable Pie.—(1) Put chops or steaks of mutton, lamb, beef, or any other kind of meat at the bottom of a deep pie-dish, add an onion peeled and sliced, a few slices of peeled cucumber, and \ pint of green peas, and till the dish high with lettuce, cut in strips as if for salad. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, lay a crust over it, and bake slowly. (2) Boil separately some green peas, young carrots, broad beans, and French beans in bechamel sauce. Line a deep buttered pie-mould with short paste, divide it into com- partments with thin pieces of paste, fill these with flour or rice to keep them in position, and bake the crust. When cooked, take the crust out of the oven, and empty out the rice or flour. Turn the crust out of the mould on to a hot dish, fill each of the compartments with the cooked Vegetables, and serve. (3) Take equal quantities of potatoes, carrots, turnips, cauliflower, Jerusalem artichokes, peas, French beans, and very small onions, and any other Vegetables that may be available. Half cook them in good broth, and fill a pie. dish with them. Make some puff paste, cut a strip to cover the edge of the dish, then lay a cover of puff paste over the Vegetables, trim the edges of the paste and press them together, cut a small hole or slit in the centre of the crust, which may be concealed with an ornament of cut paste, and bake the pie in a slow oven. Put some stock over the fire, and boil in it a slice of ham, a small piece of veal, a couple of mushrooms, four or five shallots, one or two sprigs of parsley, a bay-leaf, a small onion, a little pepper, and some salt. When this gravy has well boiled, strain it, and mix into it nearly 1 gill of cream. Pour it by a funnel into the pie through the hole cut in the top of the crust just before serving. (4) Well wash 3oz. of tapioca, and put it to soak in cold water for an hour. In the meantime wash, peel, and slice 3Jib. of potatoes, and chop up Jib. of onions. Put loz. of dripping at the bottom of a pie-dish, over this place a layer of onion, then tapioca, and lastly potatoes,