THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 727 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Vegetables—continued. Lettuces.—From early spring throughout the summer months. Mushrooms.—Spring and autumn. Onions.—Old, all the year round. Spring, in the early spring. Parsnips.—From August to April. Peas, green.—April to October. Potatoes.—All the year round. New, in April and May. Radishes.—April to October. Seakale.—February to May. Shallots.—August, during the winter months. Sorrel.—Early part of the year. Tomatoes.—Autumn, through the winter. Foreign, at all times. Turnips.—All the year round. Young ones, in spring. Vegetable marrows.—June to August. Further information on this subject will be found under special headings. Cooked Vegetables as accompaniments require to be served very hot, for which reason dishes are made for them with accurately fitting lids (see Fig. 991), and those Fig. 991, Vegetable-dish (Adams and Son), of metal are found to be more serviceable than those of earthenware or china, retaining the heat for much longer time, as well as the steam, which keeps them moist and well flavoured. For the convenience of handing Vege- tables to seated guests, dishes fitted with handles (see Fig. 992. Vegetable-dish with Handle, Fig. 992) are found to be exceedingly useful, permitting the attendant to place the dish in front of the guest” and not at the elbow or shoulder, as almost invariably occurs with unskilful waiting. In order that the Vege- tables may be kept hot even during the service of a meal, an ornamental vegetable- or plate-warmer (see Fig. 993) may be used, which will stand in front of the dining- room fire and answer the purposes of a hot closet. ° The following receipts tell of various modes of using Vegetables. Special Vegetables are described under their own headings. Curried Vegetables.—(1) Prepare and cut into small pieces a small cauliflower, a young vegetable marrow or cucumber, three or four new potatoes, and several French beans! Steep the Vegetables with 1 pint of green peas in salted water for an hour. Put a lump of lard or dripping into a stewpan, and place it over the fire ; when boiling, put in a small finely-minced onion, a small minced clove of garlic, a heaped teaspoonful of salt, and J teaspoonful each of ground turmeric and cayenne. Fry the onion mixture until brown, then drain the Vegetables, put them in with 4 pint of stock, and boil them gently at the side of the fire till tender. W hen cooked, turn the curry on to a hot V egetables—continued. dish, garnish it with croutons of Med bread or sippets of toast, and serve. (2) Peel a few onions, cut them in slices, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them until nicely browned. Dredge them over with 1 table-spoonful of curry, and stir in gradually \ pint of milk. Continue stirring it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the Fig. 993. Plate- and Vegetable-warmer (Adams and Son). side, and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Partially boil a variety of any kinds of vegetables liked, drain them, put them in with the onions, and stew the whole gently for lialf-an-hour longer. When cooked, turn the curry on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter, and serve. More or less of the specified quan- tity of curry can be used, as it varies greatly in quality. (3) Indian Chalikee.—Chop three moderate-sized onions, three green chillies, and a clove of garlic; put them in a mortar, and pound them until a smooth powder; put this in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of curry powder, dust it over with salt, and fry for a few minutes, stirring at the same time. N ext put in 1 break- fast-cupful of freshly-shelled peas and Jib. of pumpkin, cut into small pieces, and fry them until nicely browned. Pour in J pint of boiling water or clear stock, and keep the whole simmering gently at the edge of the fire until tender. When the curry is cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or small croutons of fried bread, and serve. (4) Prepare as for other curries, frying the vegetables first in mustard oil and curry mixture, adding a little water, and simmering until tender. Essence of Vegetables for Soups and Sauces.—(1) Cut into slices three large bunches of carrots, two each of onions and turnips, and one of leeks, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, together with six heads of celery cut up into pieces, and boil for two minutes. Plunge them into cold water to blanch them, put them into a stockpot with an onion stuck with two cloves, grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste, add a lump of butter, pour in lOqts. of boiling water, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for three hours. Skim off the fat, strain the liquor, and it is ready for use. It will be found very convenient for flavouring sauces and soups that are to be served white. (2) Chop up two bunches each of carrots and white turnips, put them into a saucepan on the fire with butter, and cook them until they all have a reddish appearance, stir- ring them about with a wooden spoon. Now add a bunch each of leeks and onions and six heads of celery, all cut up small, and let them sweat over the fire for a-quarter- of-an-hour; pour in lOqts. of water, and add an onion stuck with two cloves, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste, and boil for four hours. Skim carefully, strain through a fine sieve, and it is ready for use. It is used