798 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Y ams—continued. Yams—continued. employed for culinary purposes vary greatly in size and colour, according to the species or variety producing them; “ many attain a length of two or three feet, and weigh from 301b. to 401b.; some are white, others purplish throughout, while some have a purple skin with whitish flesh, and others are pink, or even black. Like potatoes they contain a large quantity of starch, and a nutritious meal used for making cakes, puddings, &c., is prepared from them in the West Indies, where also they are commonly sliced and dried in the sun in order to preserve them. One species, the Chinese or Japanese Yam (see Fig. 1082) (Dioscorea Batatas), has recently come into notice in this country, where it has been recommended for cultivation as a substitute for the potato; but although it succeeds very well when properly managed, it has not as yet found much favour among agriculturists. The chief drawback connected with it is the great depth to which its roots penetrate into the earth, and the conse- quent difficulty of extracting them. It is extensively grown and used for food in China and Japan.” It bears a close resemblance to the Spanish sweet potato (see Potatoes), as may be seen by comparing the two illustrations—Figs. 1082 and 1083. In America, where the entire Dioscorea family thrive excellently, and in other countries, the close likeness of the Yam to the sweet batata (or potato) sometimes leads to confusion. There is no material difference in the culinary process, but from a botanical point of view the characteristics are marked. Here we see the Yam and the Yam batata or sweet potato—all Yams, but not all sweet potatoes, although included in the category by custom. Any kind of Yams may be used in the following receipts: Baked Yams.—Thoroughly wash between 111), and 21b. of small Yams, dry them in a cloth, put them into a hot oven, and bake until they are soft to the touch. Spread a folded napkin on a hot dish, arrange the Yams on it, and serve with salt, pepper, and butter. Boiled Yams.—Peel and wasli lib. or more of small Yams; pour clean water over them, and leave them in it for a short time. Take them out, put them in a saucepan, cover them with cold salted water, and boil slowly until they are soft. Drain them well, let them remain in the saucepan for a minute or so, then turn into a vege- table-dish with a folded napkin under them, and serve. Broiled Yams.—Cut five or six small cooked peeled Yams into halves, lay them on a dish, dust them over with salt, and baste with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of melted butter; roll the Yams well in it, arrange them on a double broiler, and broil over or before a clear lire, allowing three or four minutes for each side. Spread a folded napkin over a hot dish, arrange the Yams on it, and serve. Creamed Yams.—Cut Jib. of cold boiled Yams into small pieces about Jin. square, put them into a flat baking- tin, dust over with salt, cover them with cream, put the pan into a moderate oven, and bake them until nearly all the cream is absorbed. Then add 1 table-spoonful of butter, 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, some pepper, and more salt. Toss them up in this seasoning, return to the oven for a minute or so, then turn them into a hot vegetable-dish, and serve. Curried Yams.—Cut about lib. or 211). of cold rather underdone Yams into slices; peel and slice two or three onions, put them into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them until lightly browned; then put in the sliced Yams, dust them over with salt, pepper, and a sufficient quantity of curry-powder, baste them with a few table-spoonfuls of clear stock, add the juice of a lemon, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. Serve on a hot dish, with or without boiled rice. Fried Yams.—Peel and wash one or two large Yams, and cut them into thin slices. Have ready a stewpan half filled with boiling fat, lay the slices of Yams in a frying basket, plunge them into the boiling fat, and fry until they are soft. Lift them out, drain, dust over with salt, and turn them on to a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin. Serve very hot. Glazed Yams.—Boil about lib. of Yams, being careful they are not overdone; peel them, roll them in beaten yolk of egg, and brown in front of a clear brisk fire. Serve on a folded napkin on a hot dish. Mashed Yams.—Peel, wash, and cut up the Yams into moderate-sized pieces, put them into a saucepan with a lump of salt and water to cover them, and boil gently until soft. Drain the Yams, and mash them well (this is best done with a pestle and mortar). For each breakfast- cupful of the pulp allow loz. of butter and 4 teacupful of milk; put these latter ingredients into a saucepan, place them over the fire until hot, then stir in the Yam pulp. and mix all well together, adding plenty of salt. Turn the mash into a hot vegetable-dish, mark it over the top with the prongs of a fork, and brown in front of the fire or under a salamander. Serve hot on a flat dish covered with a folded napkin (see Fig. 1084). Steamed Yams.—Peel and wash the Yams, and leave them covered with cold water for ten minutes. Put them in a steamer over a pan of boiling water, and cook them until tender. Turn them into a hot vegetable-dish, and serve at once. Stewed Yams.—Peel and cut Jib. of Yams into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, a peeled and chopped onion, 1 .teaspoonful of common salt and celery salt mixed, 2 teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley, and | teacupful of water. Boil gently until the Yams are soft, then pour in 1 teacupful of milk in which 1 table-spoonful of flour has been mixed; add a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice, and stir until boiling. Boil for ten minutes, then turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve. Stuffed Yams.—Finely chop lib. of beef steak, mix with it 4 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Select eight medium sized Yams of nearly equal size, peel them thinly, wash them, and cut a small piece off the top of each.' Scoop out the insides, leaving a wall about Jin. in thickness, and stuff them with the prepared meat. Roll the Yams and their tops in beaten egg, and then iix the tops firmly in their places again, l’ut a large piece of butter in a stewpan over the fire, and when the blue smoke rises, put in the Yams, cover the pan, move it to the side of the fire, and let them stew until soft, turning them occasionally so that they may be evenly browned. When cooked, drain the Yams, arrange them in an upright position on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. Yams d la Barigoule.—Select eight or ten equal-sized small Yams, or cut large Yams into eight or ten equal sized pieces. Peel and wash them, put them into a saucepan, cover with clear broth, and boil until soft. Drain the Yams, being careful not to break them. Pour 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of olive oil into a deep frying-pan