THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 733 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Vegetable Marrows—continued. (8) Select three large Vegetable Marrows, scrape out the seeds and some of the pulp, dust them over with salt, and leave them for fifteen minutes. Drain them from the juice that will have run from them, wipe them on a dry towel, and stuff with some well-seasoned pounded veal or chicken flesh. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, and place it over the fire until melted ; then put in the Marrows and fry them until nicely browned. Pour sufficient stock over the Marrows to cover them, and keep them simmering gently at the side of the fire until cooked ; then drain, and place them on a hot dish. Mix h table- spoonful of flour smoothly with a small quantity of water, mix it in the cooking liquor of the Marrows, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and add a small quan- tity of salt. Stir the sauce over the fire until thickened and boiling, then pour it over the Marrows, and serve while very hot. (9) Cut two small Marrows in halves lengthwise, and scoop out all the seeds. Remove all skin and bones from some cold fish of any kind, put it into a mortar with two washed and chopped anchovies, and pound to a smooth paste; mix with this half its quantity of breadcrumbs that have been soaked in milk and well squeezed, and half its quantity of fresh butter. Season the mixture to taste with salt, pepper, and powdered sweet herbs, nutmeg and spices, pound it again, and bind it with beaten yolks of egg. Fill each half of Marrow with this, wrap each in a sheet of buttered paper, tie it round with string, lay them in a baking-tin with a few pieces of Fig. 997. Stuffed Vegetable Marrows. butter, and bake in the oven. When cooked, remove the papers, lay the Marrows on a hot dish with a piece of toast under each, pour some hot nicely-flavoured tomato sauce over them (see Fig. 997), and serve. (10) Procure a couple of nice-sized Vegetable Marrows, cut them in halves lengthwise, scoop out all the seeds, put them into a saucepan of water with a lump of salt, several cloves, a bunch of parsley, and one onion, and boil them until half cooked; then drain them well. Mince together in equal quantities, sufficient lean ham and beef-suet to stuff the Marrows with, add a little grated breadcrumb, some Parmesan cheese also grated, a moderate quantity each of chopped parsley and sweet herbs, with salt and pepper to taste. Bind the mixture with beaten eggs, and stuff the Marrows with it. Butter a baking- dish, lay the Marrows in it, cover them with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake them for twenty minutes. When cooked, put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper, and serve. (11) Turkish.—Peel two moderate-sized Vegetable Marrows, cut them in halves across, scoop out the seeds and soft pulp, and rub them over with a small quantity of salt. Mince very finely ilb. of mutton, a large onion, and a small handful of parsley, mix them together with 2 table-spoonfuls of uncooked rice, and season with salt and pepper. Stuff the Vegetable Marrows with the mix- ture, lay them in a stewpan with a small quantity of water, and boil them slowly until tender. When cooked drain them, lay them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish paper, and serve. Vegetable Marrow a la Chambord.—Cut a medium- sized Marrow into slices about |m- thick, dip them into Hour seasoned with salt and pepper, then dip them into beaten egg, and lastly into sifted breadcrumbs; plunge them into a pan of boiling fat, and fry. In the mean- time, put loz. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, pour in a well-beaten egg, and season with salt and pepper. Stir Vegetable Marrows—continued. quickly, and when set, divide the egg into pieces, accord- ing to the number of slices of Marrow. Put a piece of egg on each slice, place them on a dish, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, and serve with rich cream or veloute sauce in a sauceboat. Vegetable Marrow a l’Espagnole.—Cut two or three tomatoes into slices, and peel and slice a moderate-sized onion; put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them until the onion is cooked. Peel the Marrow, cut it into moderate-sized pieces, removing all the seeds, put them in with the onion and tomato, season to taste with pepper, salt, and powdered sweet herbs, and moisten to about a third of their height with hot water. Stew the Marrow gently until tender. When the Marrow is cooked, turn it on to a hot dish with the onion and tomato over it, and serve. Vegetable Marrow au G-ratin.—Peel two young Marrows, cut them into quarters lengthwise, and scoop out all the seeds. Put a large lump of butter in a stewpan, and when melted put in the pieces of Marrow, season them with salt and pepper, and stew them for about half an-hour over a gentle fire, adding before they are quite done 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and tossing them about occasionally. When cooked, lay the pieces on a hot dish, pour the cooking- butter over them, strew grated breadcrumbs and more grated cheese over them, brown them under a salamander, and serve while very hot. Vegetable Marrow au Jus.—Put 2oz. of finely-chopped fat bacon in a stewpan with a small chopped onion, and fry them for a few minutes; when the onion is lightly browned, put in the Marrow, which should have been peeled, cut in halves lengthwise, and freed from the seeds. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and powdered sweet herbs, cover it with nicely flavoured brown stock, and stew it gently until tender. When the pieces of Marrow are cooked, strain off some of their liquor into a smaller saucepan, put in it a piece of butter that has been kneaded with flour, and stir it over the fire until thickened. Lay the halves of Marrow on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Vegetable Sauce a la Lyonnaise.—Peel the Marrow and cut it into round slices about Jin. thick. Peel and slice a couple of moderate sized onions, put them into a stew- pan with plenty of butter, and fry them until lightly browned; then put in the slices of Marrow, season to taste with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, pour over them a small quantity of stock, and stew them gently until tender. When cooked, strew a moderate quantity of finely minced parsley over the Marrow, turn it on to a hot dish with the sauce over it, and serve. Vegetable Marrow a l’Orly.—Cut some Marrow into pieces about 2in. wide and 4in. long, and put them into a basin of cold water to soak. Take them out, drain them thoroughly, and let them remain for an hour or so. Have ready some hot meat glaze, dip each piece of Marrow into it, put them on a board, and when they are cold, smooth round the edges. Dip them into frying batter, and fry them to a good colour in boiling lard. Fig. 99b. Vegetable Marrow a l’orly. When done, take them out, drain them on a napkin, put them in a pile on a hot dish round a sauceboatful of tomato sauce, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 998), and serve. Vegetable Marrow a la Poulette.—Peel the Marrow, cut it in halves, scoop out all the seeds, and cut it into