TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 741 For detail* respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Venison—continued. (2) Cut 2lb. of lean meat from a haunch of Venison and chop it very fine. Put 2oz. of butter into a frying-pan, dredge it with flour, and when browned put in the minced Venison, and keep stirring it with a fork till it is all nicely cooked. Put some Venison gravy seasoned with salt and plenty of pepper into a saucepan, add to it the Venison from the frying-pan, and let it stew for half-an- hour; add a little port wine, and serve. (3) Cut some uncooked Venison into thin collops, trim them to a nice shape, and rub them over well on both sides with salt, pepper, and mixed spices. Put a good- sized lump of butter into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then put in the collops, and fry them till nicely browned on both sides. Drain the fat off the collops, and add an equal quantity each of rich brown gravy and red wine, 1 table-spoonful each of vinegar and mushroom ketchup, and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. Keep the stewpan at the edge of the fire, and let the contents stew gently until the collops are tender. When cooked, arrange the collops on a hot dish, strain their cooking-liquor over them, and serve hot. Venison Croquettes.—Chop fine as much cold roasted Venison as will fill a breakfast-cup; mix it with nearly loz. of sifted breadcrumbs and a seasoning of chopped parsley, powdered mace, and a very little grated lemon- peel. Place on the fire in a saucepan 4 pint of good gravy, well thickened with browned flour, and stir into it a teaspoonful of currant jelly; when the jelly is well stirred into the gravy, add the meat and breadcrumbs; when it is pretty hot, take it from the fire and stir in a beaten egg. Let the mixture cool, then make it up into rather thick rolls about 2in. long; brush them over with egg, roll them in a paper of sifted breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling lard; drain them on kitchen-paper, arrange them on a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley. Serve with them, in a sauce boat, some good brown gravy thickened with browned flour, with a little currant jelly and claret stirred into it. Venison Pie or Pasty.—(1) Bone a breast of Venison (if the pie is to be large nse two breasts), beat it flat, and lard it through and through with lardoons well seasoned with finely-chopped sweet herbs and all sorts of spices. Roll it up very tightly, and tie it into shape firmly with strong twine. Put the bones and trimmings into a stew- pan together with allspice, peppercorns, a bay-leaf, parsley, thyme, onions, carrots, and one clove of garlic; add a little water, and let all stew together till nearly dry; then fill up the stewpan with mutton or beef thick gravy and watfjr, half of each, and let it simmer till the vegetables are done. Then put in the rolled breast of Venison, lay buttered paper over, close the lid of the stewpan tightly, and let it stew till sufficiently done with fire under and over it. When done enough, take the stewpan from the fire, and let the Venison, &c., remain in it till almost cold. Make a plain paste crust of flour, one fourth its weight of butter, and sufficient water to mix it; make it as the crust for a raised pie is made, but mix it soft instead of stiff. Lay a very thick strip of this crust over the edge of the dish. Then remove the twine from the Venison, skin it, put it into the dish, and pour in some of the gravy it was stewed in: place on a good thick cover of the paste, trim it neatly, make a hole in the top, which may be hidden by an ornament made of the paste, brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a moder- ate oven for three or four hours. Reduce what remains of the liquor- it was boiled in, and when the pie is baked pour it in by means of a funnel inserted in the hole in the top of the crust. Let it stand till quite cold, and then serve on a second dish (see Fig. 1006). (2) Cut lib. or 2lb. of Venison into small slices, and lay them in a deep dish, with slices of Venison- or mutton- fat between the slices of Venison, seasoning the layers of meat with salt, pepper, and powdered allspice. Pour into the dish a gravy made by stewing the trimmings of Venison in water enough to cover them, with salt and pepper, for an hour; or with any good meat broth and claret mixed in equal proportions ; or 1 teaspoonful of lemon- V enison—continued. juice; 1 gill of port wine may be substituted for the claret: When wine is not used, a very little chopped onion is put into Venison patties. If the Venison is tender, the crust may be put on the pie at once, otherwise it is well to bake the Venison for an hour before covering with paste. Either use a bottom crust, or run a strip of paste round the sides of the dish and wet the edges to make Fig. 1006. Venison Pie. the upper crust adhere. Make a groove in the top crust, cut several slits to permit the escape of steam, brush the surface with beaten egg, and bake slowly for two hours. Serve either hot or cold, as desired. (3) Make a good plain paste, and line an earthenware pudding-dish with it Jin. thick. Chop enough beef-suet very fine to make Jin. layer next the crust at the bottom and top of the pie. Cut off sufficient Venison-meat from the bones, and divide it into pieces about lin. square, season rather highly with salt, pepper, and ground cloves, and lay it in the dish ; pour over 1 wineglassful of red wine for every 21b. of Venison, cover with a layer of chopped suet and then with paste, wetting the edges of the upper and under crusts to make them adhere. Cut several places in the top crust to permit the escape of steam in baking, and brush the surface with beaten egg. Bake the pie in a moderately hot oven for two hours, or until the Venison is tender, which can be ascertained by thrusting a skewer into the meat through one of the cuts in the top crust. While the pie is being baked, stew the bones of the Venison in enough water to cover them, adding a good seasoning of salt and pepper. When the pie is done, pour the gravy thus made into it through the cuts in the top crust, and serve hot. (4) Remove the bones and skin from a neck of Venison, and cut the meat into small square pieces; put them in a stewpan with two shallots, two blades of mace, 1 dessert- spoonful of allspice, salt and pepper, 1 teacupful of port wine, and sufficient veal broth to cover. Stand the stew- pan over a clear fire, and cook the meat slowly till three- parts done. Take the best-shaped pieces of Venison out of the stewpan, put them in a deep baking-dish, pour a little of the gravy over them, and leave till cold. Put the bones and trimmings of the Venison in the remainder of the gravy, and boil for twenty minutes. Prepare some raised pie-crust, cover the Venison with it, trim it off at the edges, ornament the top with leaves, &c., imitated in paste, and bake in a slow oven for about three hours. Strain the gravy off the bones, skim it well, mix 1 wine- glassful of port wine and the juice of a lemon with it, add a small lump of butter that has been worked with a little flour, and stir it over the fire till thick. When cooked, pour the prepared gravy into the pasty, and serve. (5) Cut a breast of Venison into small pieces, sprinkle some finely minced parsley, thyme, ami shallot over them, and dust with a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt; roll each piece of Venison up separately and fry them lightly in butter. Butter the edges of a pie-dish, and line them with puff paste, then put in the pieces of Venison. With the trimmings of Venison make 1 breakfast-cupful of gravy; pour this in the dish with 1 teacupful of port wine and the juice of half a lemon. Cover the pie with puff paste, put it in a moderate oven, and bake for nearly