708 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. butter together with a small quantity of chopped onions, and add them to the sweetbreads in the gravy. Chop up a dozen oysters, and season them with salt and pepper. When the pigeons are thoroughly done, uncover them, baste them well with butter, and leave them in the oven to brown. Put them on a hot dish, cut the twine, and take it off carefully, without injuring the shape of the pigeons. Let the gravy they were roasted in boil up quickly, thicken it with browned Hour, and pour it into the saucepan with the sweetbreads, mushrooms, &c., and let it come to a good boil; add 1 glass of wine, then take it from the fire and stir in the chopped oysters, stirring it well over the fire for half a minute without letting it boil. Pour a few spoonfuls of the thickest part of this gravy over the pigeons, turn the rest into a sauce-tureen, and serve. (3) Take two cutlets from a fillet of Veal, remove the pieces of bone from the centre, and beat the cutlets flat. Make a stuffing of fine breadcrumbs, a little minced bacon or ham, pepper, salt, and ketchup to taste, and a very little chopped parsley and thyme, mixed well together and made into a paste with some beaten egg. Spread half of this on each cutlet, roll them up separately into oblong rolls, bind them firmly into shape with string, lay them in a deep dish, and pour over them 1 pint of stock or gravy; cover them with another dish, and bake them two hours, basting them now and then with the gravy. Then put them on a hot dish and carefully remove the string, so as not to spoil the shape. Thicken the gravy with browned flour, season it to taste with ketchup, pepper, and salt, and let it boil a few minutes; then pour a little over the pigeons, and send the remainder to table in a sauce-tureen. Veal Broth.—(1) Put 41b. or 5lb. of knuckle of Veal into a saucepan with 3qts. of water, two blades of mace, one onion, a little parsley, and a head of celery, cut into pieces, seasoning with pepper and salt. When boiling, move the saucepan a little to the side, and keep the water simmer- ing till reduced one-third. Strain the broth, mix with it a little well-boiled rice or vermicelli, and serve. (2) Put 41b. or 5lb. of scrag of Veal, cut into pieces, in a saucepan, pour in 3qts. of water, and stand it over the fire. When boiling, skim the liquor, put in an onion, a turnip, three blades of mace, anil a little salt, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for two hours. Strain the broth through a fine hair sieve, put in it 1 teacupful of well boiled rice, boil it up again, then pour it in a soup-tureen, and serve. (3) Put into a covered saucepan 1 lb. of the lean parts of Veal, with an equal quantity of bones and cartilage, and 2qts. of cold water, adding a little salt, an onion, and the heart of a lettuce pulled to pieces. Boil up, skim, and reduce. Veal Cake or Fain.—-(1) Finely chop 21b. of Veal with 4oz. of pork, mix them together with 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-grated breadcrumbs, season to taste with salt, black pepper, and small quantities of cayenne pepper and pounded cloves, and bind the whole together with beaten eggs. Butter a mould, press the mixture tightly in it, and tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top. Stand the mould in a stewpan with boiling water to three parts its height, and steam it for an hour. Care must be taken not to let the water enter at the top of the mould. At the end of that time, take the mould out of the water, and stand it in the larder until cold. When ready to serve, turn the cake out of the mould on to a dish with a stand, and garnish it with aspic jelly (see Fig. 956). (2) Butter a pie-dish well, line it with slices of hard- boiled eggs, put at the bottom a layer of slices of cold Veal, over them a layer of thin slices of ham, pour over this a little good gravy, and sprinkle in a seasoning according to taste, and some pickles cut small. Fill the dish with alternate layers of Veal and ham, always adding pickles, seasoning, and gravy. When the dish is full, bake the contents for twenty minutes. Let it stand in a cool place all night, and turn it out next day. (3) Put a slice of cold ham or bacon, a piece of crumb of bread soaked in milk, and some cold roasted Veal into V eal—continued. a mortar, and pound them well; then add and pound in about half a shallot or half a small onion, some salt and pepper, and a bit of butter, and lastly mix in two beaten eggs. When all are thoroughly mixed, put it into a buttered mould, and bake it for about an hour. Let it stand till next day, or till thoroughly cold, turn it out, cut it into slices, arrange them on a dish, garnish with parsley and slices of hard-boiled eggs, and serve. (4) Put about 31b. of best end of neck of Veal in a saucepan with some cold water, and stew it gently till the bones can be easily taken out. Cut the meat into small pieces and put them in a mould in layers, alternating with slices of raw ham, boned and finely-chopped anchovies, and hard-boiled eggs. Dust some cayenne pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and a little grated nutmeg over each layer of Veal. Pour in a little of the liquor in which the Veal was stewed, put a plate on the mould, put it in a slow oven, and bake the contents for two hours. When cold, turn the cake out of the mould on to a dish, garnish it with watercress ami slices of beetroot, and serve. (5) Butter a plain mould, line the bottom and sides with slices of hard-boiled eggs and small forcemeat balls, in any fancy pattern, fill it with alternate layers of slices of cooked or raw Veal and ham, and shake a little pepper and salt on each layer. When the mould is nearly full, put some stock or gravy over the fire, and add to it a very little gelatine, soaked for ten minutes in as much cold water as will just cover it. Stir this in the gravy till quite melted, fill the mould up with the gravy, and bake it for an hour in a moderate oven. If raw meat has been used, it will take longer. Let it stand till next day, then turn it out, and serve garnished with parsley and croutons of aspic jelly. (6) Put a layer of slices of hard-boiled eggs at the bottom of a basin or mould, over these put a layer of thin slices of Veal, rubbed with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, over these again lay some slices of ham, and sprinkle over them parsley, thyme, marjoram, and lemon- peel, all chopped very fine, and sifted breadcrumbs ; then begin again with a layer of slices of hard-boiled eggs, and continue the layers in the same order till the basin or mould is filled. Pour in some good gravy, tie over it a cover of thick brown paper, put it in a slow oven, and let it bake for an hour. Let it stand till next day, and then turn it out on a dish, and garnish with parsley. (7) Hard boil six eggs, and when cold peel and cut them into halves. Put some of these at the bottom of a small mould, strew finely-chopped parsley over them, then put in a few slices of Veal and ham, next some more halves of eggs, and so on until the mould is full, season- ing with small quantities of pepper, salt, and chopped parsley between each layer. Pour in sufficient water to reach the top of the meat, and put a few small pieces of butter about on the top. Tie a double sheet of thick paper over the mould, and bake it for an hour, or if a large cake a little longer. If the bottom of the mould is rounded, it should be put on the baking-tin, with a wall