785 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Wines—continued. bottle of some kinds of new Wine, immediately give it the appearance of being two or three years old.” Port Wine excels all other Wines in the formation of a crust; this should, of course, be a natural product the result of maturation, but it can be produced artificially, as described by Cooley: “ To make port Wine form a crust on the inside of the bottles, 1 spoonful (table-spoon- ful probably) of powdered catechu, or 4 (table) spoonful of finely-powdered cream of tartar, is added to each bottle before corking it, after which the whole is well agitated. It is also a common practice to put the crust on the bottle before putting the Wine into it, by employing a hot saturate solution of red tartar, thickened with gum and some powdered tartar.” The “bees-wing” is a thinly or delicately formed crust, which usually breaks off and floats in the wine, or floats about as it forms. Connois- seurs regard its presence with favour. Timbs, in his “ Hints for the Table,” speaks of the “ condition ” of Wine as follows : “ It is not always easy to get good Wine, but the difficulty increases when likewise we require good Wine in perfect condition. And yet how should we be satisfied with less ? The better the Wine the greater the loss if it be spoiled or deteriorated ; but whatever the degree in quality, there is a state of it (we mean after it has been sold for consumption) in which it will not be fit for drinking. Condition, then, has to be referred to under two heads : 1st, Chemical, that of health as to fermentation; 2nd, Mechanical, that of brightness, by the absence of any feculent matter in suspension. The first is very much the affair of the Wine-merchant, since it should be his study to correct such disorder in Wine, whether accidental or constitu- tional. This will also often occur temporarily from change of season or temperature, and be self-curative. Indeed, all but very old Wine will be liable to occasional derangement of condition from natural causes, and it is after these perturbations that the deposit occurs, which we have to speak of under our second heading on condi- tion—namely, mechanical. Having reference, then, to Wine in bottles, the state of turbidness referable to the re-admixture of a deposit by agitation of the liquid, though consistent with perfect healthiness in the Wine, is not condition. Besides being displeasing to sight, Wine in this state is impaired in flavour and bouquet, as well as being less salutary. For, albeit there are degrees of this ill-condition, some deposits being more pernicious than others, it is always bad. What, in fact, is this deposit but something eliminated from the Wine during the process of its maturation? As might be supposed, the results of that process—the deposit—are, when tasted separately, found to be most unpalatable. Yet, unnatural as is the reunion of the deposit with the Wine, this is often, we may almost say generally, incurred (more or less) by reason of the difficulty of avoiding it. At rest in its bin the Wine will be bright; but who shall remove it, extract the cork, and separate perfectly the bright and pure portion from the foul and bitter deposit ? No. sooner is the bottle transferred from the position in which it has lain than disturbance of the deposit is apt to Wines—continued. begin; if placed upright for drawing the cork there is a partial subsidence, then follows the jolt attendant on extraction of the cork, then the agitation inseparable from pouring off, and in this way may be lost the condition attained by keeping. Some attempts have from time to time been made to palliate by mechanical aid this inconvenience, but these contrivances have been so imperfect as only to increase trouble without effecting their object. For pouring into a glass direct, we have the modern port-wine basket (see Fig. 1067), which is a great boon to port-wine drinkers; but although the latter pours the Wine off the deposit to a nicety, it does not get over the evils consequent upon drawing the cork. Epicures are of opinion that Wine should not be decanted, but poured direct from the bottle into the glass. This practice, however good in theory, would not be practicable upon certain occasions of state, unless the Wine was at first put into bottles of a decidedly more ornamental character than those at present in use; nor could the beautiful dust, mould, and cobweb be any indication of sort, seeing that in such a condition no 1 butler could possibly supply them to table. For the I gourmet who dines by himself, Wines have no need to be j decanted. When convenient, Wines should lie decanted in the cellar, j and poured into decanters warmed to the same tempera- ture as the Wine. Port and other rich Wines should be strained through fine cambric, and for this purpose a funnel fitted with a removable ring (see Fig. 1068), to keep the cambric in a convenient position for straining, is useful. The small end of the funnel tube should be bent towards the side of the decanter, directing the stream of Wine down its side, and thus avoiding the evil influence of contact with more air than necessary. Some epicures advise subjecting port Wine and other sweet rich Wines to a warming process in order to bring out their full flavour. In most cases this is brought about by standing the Wine near a fire; but an ingenious contrivance is now made, which is essentially a case for hot water filled with cylindrical recesses, into which the bottles are placed. These are made in different sizes to hold two (see Fig. 1069), four, six, or more bottles. The water put in the case must be about blood heat. Choice Wines, such as champagnes, are generally iced before being served; but there are not many kinds of Wine that will bear icing. Burgundy would be utterly ruined by exposure to such intense cold. When icing is 8 a VOL. II.