717 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. V eal—continued. the mixture into a loaf, smooth the surface over with the blade of a knife, put it in a baking-dish, and bake it for half-an-hour. When cooked, put the loaf on a hot dish, and serve it with a sauceboatful of rich brown gravy; or, if preferred, leave it till cold, and cut it in slices. (3) Trim off all the fat and skin from about IJlb. of Veal, mince the lean finely, and mix with it a third of its quantity of finely-chopped bacon. Soak a thick slice of bread in 1 teacupful of rich beef gravy, then mix it with the meat, with the beaten yolks of two eggs, seasoning with salt and pepper. Turn the mixture into a baking-dish, press it down firmly, and bake it for an hour in a moderate oven. When cooked and lightly browned, turn the bread out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. (4) Chop fine 41b. of raw Veal, mix with it Jib. of crackers rolled to large crumbs, three eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, 2 saltspoonfuls of pepper, and J saltspoonful of powdered allspice. If the Veal is quite lean, add 1 table- spoonful of butter. Put this mixture into a smooth tin mould or pan, just large enough to contain it, set it in a moderate oven, and bake it for two hours. When cooked, let it cool in the pan, and then turn it out. Serve cold in slices. (5) American.—Take about 2lb. of Veal (the lean part only) and parboil it; then take it out and chop it up fine with 4oz. of salt pork or bacon, and add four pounded butter crackers, two well-beaten eggs, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, half the quantity of grated nutmeg or mace, and 2 teaspoonfuls of salt. Add sufficient of the liquor in which the Veal was cooked to moisten it, shape it to an oval loaf, put it into a shallow tin baking-pan, pour in a little more of the Veal broth, and put it into the oven to bake. Baste frequently, and when it is of a brown colour take it out, let it get cold, cut it into slices, and serve. If raw Veal be used, it must be baked for two hours or so. (6) Choose a knuckle or any bony piece of Veal that has a large quantity of gelatine in it, and chop it into small pieces. Take out all the very small pieces of bone, put the meat into a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover it, and boil it quickly for a few minutes ; then add one onion cut in slices, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, and 1 teaspoonful of salt, and let it simmer at the side of the fire until all the gristly parts are dissolved and the meat will come easily away from the bone, and the liquor is reduced to J pint. Take out the meat, remove the bones and strain the liquor, adding a little lemon juice, sage or thyme salt, and pepper, to season it. Cut the meat up, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted cracker- or bread-crumbs and the meat liquor. Mix well, place it in a bread-pan in a cool place to harden, cut it into slices, and serve. Veal Mulligatawny Soup—Cut the best part of 4lb. of breast of Veal into small pieces, and put the remainder with the trimmings into a saucepan with 2qts. of water and a few whole black peppers and allspice. When the liquor boils, remove the scum, and let it continue boiling gently for one-hour-and-a-half. Peel and slice three or four onions, and fry them with the pieces of Veal in butter. V hen lightly browned, put them in a saucepan, strain the broth over them, and simmer gently for half- an-hour, keeping it well skimmed. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls each of curry powder and flour smoothly with a small quantity of cold water, and stir it into the soup, season- ing to taste with salt. When the Veal is tender, turn it with the soup into a tureen, and serve with a dish of plain boiled rice. Veal Olives.—(1) Cut an equal quantity of thin slices of lean Veal and bacon, and trim them to one size. Partially boil one or two onions, then drain them and mince them finely. Cover each slice of Veal with a slice of bacon, strew over them some of the minced onion, season with salt and pepper to taste and a small quantity of powdered sweet herbs, and roll them up tightly, tying them round with a piece of fine twine or thread. Put a piece of butter in a stewpan over the fire; when it boils put in the olives, and fry them until nicely browned; then drain them and remove the V eal—continued. twine. Peel and slice two or three onions, put them in the stewpan in which the olives were fried, with more butter if necessary, dredge them over with Hour, and fry them a golden brown ; then put in a few mushroom trimmings and sweet herbs, moisten them with a sufficient quantity of clear gravy to cover the olives, season to taste with salt and pepper, and place the sauce over the fire until it boils. Next strain it through a fine sieve, return it to the saucepan with the olives, and keep them simmering gently at the side of the fire till ready. When the olives are cooked, place them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with small sippets of toast or croutons of bread nicely fried in butter, and serve. (2) Cut the Veal into strips 5in. long and 3in. broad, and beat them with a rolling-pin to flatten them. Finely chop a sufficient quantity of bacon with one-third of the quantity of suet, and flavour it with a small quantity of shallot, chives, grated lemon-peel, parsley, thyme, salt, and pepper. The herbs must be finely chopped. Mix in 1 teacupful of finely-grated breadcrumb, and suffi- cient beaten egg to bind the whole. Spread the mixture over the pieces of Veal, roll them up to an egg shape, and bind them round with thread. Melt a large piece of butter in a stewpan; then dredge the olives with flour, put them in the pan, and brown them all over, dredging them occasionally with flour. When browned, squeeze the juice of a lemon over the olives, dust them over with salt and pepper, pour in 1J pints of water, and stew them gently at the side of the fire for an hour. When cooked, take the olives out of the sauce- pan, remove the binding-threads, place them on a hot dish, strain their cooking-liquor over, and serve. (3) Cut thin slices off the best part of a leg of Veal, and trim them neatly to the shape of collops ; beat the collops lightly on both sides, mb them over with a seasoning of cloves, mace, salt, and pepper, and roll each up separately in a thin slice of streaky bacon. Butter the edges of a pie-dish, line them with a good paste, and lay in the rolls of bacon, with thirty forcemeat balls, four boned anchovies, three or four shallots, half-a-dozen bearded oysters, and a peeled and sliced lemon ; moisten to two-thirds of the height with equal quantities of white wine and broth and a small quantity of rich gravy, and put about 6oz. of butter broken in small pieces on the top. Cover the whole with puff paste, trim it neatly round the edges, moisten and press them together, and bake the pie in a good oven. Serve either hot or cold. (4) Take some thin cutlets of fillet of Veal, beat them flat, cut them into pieces of a convenient size, and season them with plenty of pepper, mace, grated lemon-peel, and salt. Lay a piece of fat on each slice of Veal, roll the Veal round it, tie it with a thread to keep it in shape, and fry the rolls a light brown ; then put them into a stewpan with 1 wineglassful of white wine, 1 table- spoonful of lemon pickle, some small mushrooms, and a couple of dozen fried oysters, and let them stew for nearly an hour. Put the stew on to a dish, and serve, first taking the threads off the rolls of Veal. (5) Cut the Veal in rather thin slices off the fillet, and spread over each some well-seasoned forcemeat. Roll the slices up very tightly, secure them with small skewers, and roll them in beaten egg and finely-grated breadcrumb, giving them a good coating. Put a good-sized lump of butter or lard in a flat stewpan, and when boiling put in the rolls and fiy them until nicely browned. Drain the butter off them, cover them with rich brown gravy, and stew them gently. When cooked, put the olives on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve. (6) Take six or eight Veal cutlets cut rather thin, brush them over with beaten yolk of egg, season them to taste, and then spread over them a layer of Veal force- meat. Roll them up, tie them with fine twine to keep them in shape, and fry them. Make some forcemeat balls of Jib. of Veal chopped very fine, Jib. of suet chopped fine, a small onion peeled and chopped fine, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, mashed or chopped, a seasoning of grated nutmeg and lemon peel, a very little powdered mace, and pepper and salt. Mix all well together, and