752 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. WAFFLES {Fr. Gaufres; Gar. Waffeln).— English pastrycooks have succeeded in creating some confusion between these two foreign words, and appear to have given credit to the Germans as originators and the French as improvers. As the mode of preparing the British wafer re- sembles in some respects the mode of preparing these Waffles, it is only natural that the British pastrycook should have asso- ciated the three terms, and con- structed out of Gaufres, Waffeln, and Wafer, an entirely new word —Waffles, to wit. Waffles are described as soft, indented cakes (see Fig. 1020) made in irons or tongs (see Fig. 1021) specially constructed for the purpose. The following are favourite receipts for their preparation. Others will be found under Graham-flour, Rice, Sago, &c. (1) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of warm milk into a basin, mix in 2oz. of butter, two well-beaten eggs, a little grated nutmeg and crushed loaf sugar, and enough flour to form the whole into a stiff paste. Add 1 table-spoon- ful of yeast, and put it in a warm place to rise. Let it remain for two or three hours, work it softly and lightly, and let it rise again for half an-hour longer. Put about 2 table-spoonfuls of this paste into the waffle-irons, which should be made hot ami well greased, close the irons, and bake for a few minutes. Turn the Waffles out when done a light colour, put them on a dish, dust them over with caster sugar mixed with a small quantity of ground cinnamon to flavour, and serve. (2) Put in a vessel 3oz. of powdered sugar, lib. of flour, three raw eggs, 3oz. of melted butter, and mix all well together with a spatula for five minutes. Add It pints of cream, and mix again well for two minutes. Have the waffle-iron hot on both sides, and on a clear lire. Grease with melted butter, using a feather for the purpose, and drop into each of the holes 2 table-spoonfuls of the paste. Bake for two minutes on each side, and if they have not got a golden colour, bake for one minute longer on each side. Heap them as fast as cooked on a hot dessert-dish. When all are done, sprinkle carefully with powdered sugar and serve very hot. Fig. 1021. Waffle-irons (Adams and Son). (3) Warm 5oz. of butter in a basin, and work it till creamy with the hand; stir in gradually the yolks of six eggs, and when well mixed and frothy add 5oz. of flour, 1 pinch of salt, and 2oz. of sugar; dissolve |oz. of yeast in a little water, then mix it with the other ingredients, cover the basin with a cloth, and set it in a warm place to rise. When the paste has risen, mix with it the whipped whites of five eggs. Heat an oblong waffle-iron, brush the inside over with a paste-brush dipped in clarified butter, then put 1 table-spoonful of paste on one side only of the iron, close it, and cook the Waffle over a slow fire, turning the iron over. When the Waffle is dry and a light colour, put it on a dish, sprinkle over caster sugar that has been flavoured with vanilla, and serve. (4) Warm Jib. of butter, work it until creamy, then beat in six eggs and ^lb. of flour alternately, thus: 1 table-spoonful of flour, then an egg, and so on. Add a small quantity of salt, and stir in sufficient warm milk to form a light batter. Beat the mixture thoroughly with a wooden spoon for fifteen or twenty minutes. Make the waffle-irons hot, grease the interior with butter, fill the deep part with batter, close the iron slowly, and hold it over a clear fire. Turn the iron in a minute or two and cook the other side of the batter. When cooked, the Waffles should be delicately browned. Put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or W affles—continued. an ornamental dish-paper, sift caster sugar and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon over them, and serve. (5) Sift 1 teaspoonful each of egg- and baking-powders in with lib. of flour and 1 table-spoonful of finely-crushed loaf sugar; form a bay in the centre, pour in 4oz. of oiled butter and 4 teacupful of water, and with these make a light paste. Rub the hot waffle-irons with oil or butter, pour in the paste to two-thirds their height, close them, and cook over a charcoal fire. Pile on a dish, and serve. (6) Put 4oz. or 5oz. of flour into a basin with 3oz. of crushed loaf sugar and a small quantity of salt; mix well, then add the yolks of four or five eggs and a small stick of vanilla finely pounded; stir in 1 liqueur-glassful of ratafia or curapoa, mix well again, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of whipped cream. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly but thoroughly incorpora- ting them. Make the irons hot, rub them over with butter, fill them with the batter, brown them evenly on both sides, place then on a dish, dust over with ground allspice and sugar, and serve. American Waffles.—Boil 1 teacupful of rice quite soft; mix with it a raw egg, 1 table-spoonful each of Hour and milk, and beat all together to a smooth paste. Let it cool, pour it into well-greased waffle-irons, and cook. When the Waffles are done on both sides, lay them on a hot plate, butter them, and serve hot. Flemish Waffles.—(1) Prepare a sponge with loz. of yeast dissolved in a teacupful of warmed milk, adding sufficient- flour to form a thin paste, and set it to rise in a warm place. When sufficiently risen, work in the yolks of six eggs and the whites of two, also the rind of an orange nibbed off on sugar, and a small pinch of salt. When well mixed, add 41 b. of slightly-melted butter, the whites of four eggs whipped to a stiff froth, and lastly 2 table- spoonfuls of cream. Set it to rise again until it becomes twice its original bulk, put a little of it at a time into the irons, cook them for a minute or two, dust over with caster sugar, and they are ready for use. (2) Mix tlh. of flour with six eggs, adding them gradu- ally and working the whole into a smooth paste. Dissolve a piece of German yeast half the size of a walnut in 1 wineglassful of warm water, then pour it into a basin with 1 teacupful of warmed milk and 1 pinch of salt; melt 6oz. of butter, stir it in with the milk and yeast, also 2 table-spoon- fuls of oi ange flower water, and stand the basin in a warm place for two hours, when the mixture will have risen 2in. or Sin.; turn it round five or six times with a wooden spoon to bring it down, and let it remain half an-hour longer. Heat the waffle-irons upon a slow fire, turning them occasionally, then wipe them well with a cloth; grease the interior with fat bacon, put in 2 or 3 spoonfuls of the paste, close the irons, and put them over the fire for a few minutes, turning occasionally. Take the Waffles out when they are a light golden colour and very crisp. Fig. 1022. Flemish Waffles. Mix 41b. of caster sugar with |oz. of powdered cinnamon, dip the Waffles in on both sides, arrange them in a pyramid on a folded napkin (see Fig. 1022) on a dish, and serve while very hot. (3) Well beat six eggs, and work them in with 4-lb. of flour to form a smooth paste. Put a little German yeast, say about the size of a walnut, in \ teacupful of warm water, and let it dissolve ; add to it 1 teacupful of warm milk, 6oz. of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of orange-flower la&aaat pa&sam aammmmk Fig. 1020. Waffle.