THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 734 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, .Sic., referred to, see under their special heads. Vegetable Marrows—continued. small pieces. Put a large lump of butter in a stewpan, melt it, put in the pieces of Marrow, toss them about for a few minutes, season to taste with salt and pepper, and pour over them a small quantity of clear broth. Let them stew over a gentle fire until quite cooked, then move the stewpan to the side, and stir in a moderate quantity of finely-minced parsley and the yolk of an egg that has been beaten up with the juice of half a lemon and strained. Lay the pieces of Marrow on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Vegetable-marrow Jam.—(1) Peel some young Vegetable Marrows, cut them into thin slices, and put them into a preserving-pan with lib. of caster sugar and the strained juice and thinly.shred rind of half a lemon to every pound of Marrow. Tie a small quantity of bruised ginger up in a muslin bag, put it in with the other ingredients, and boil the whole gently until reduced to a thick jam, stir- ring frequently with a wooden spoon. When ready, turn the jam into jars, and leave it until the next day; then put in each jar a round of brandied paper, cover them with parchment, and tie down. Keep in a dry store-cupboard. (2) Select moderate-sized Marrows, put them in a tub with salted water to cover, and steep them for two days, keeping them in a warm temperature. Wash them well in clear water, peel them, cut them up in convenient sized pieces, and remove the seeds. For each pound of fruit allow lib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, 1 pint of water, and foz. of ginger. Boil these ingredients to a syrup, then put in the pieces of Marrow, anil stew them gently until tender. Just before removing them from the fire add the rind and juice of a lemon. When sufficiently boiled, mix in about 2 wineglassfuls of gin to 61b. of the preserve, and turn it into jars. When cold, cover them with parchment, and tie down. (3) Get the Marrows when just ripened, peel them, cut them into moderately thick strips, and scoop out all the seeds and pulp. Prepare a sufficient quantity of syrup with brown sugar and water to cover the Marrows, and pour it while boiling hot over them. Leave them for three days in the syrup, then drain them, and throw the syrup away. Put the Marrows in a preserving-pan, and for each pound put in lib. of coarsely crushed loaf sugar, the juice and thinly-pared rind of a large lemon, and 1 pint of water. Tie a few slices of whole ginger and a small quantity of cayenne pepper in a linen bag, and put in with the above ingredients. Place the pan over a slow tire and boil the Marrow until it looks clear. When quite cooked, mix in for every 2lb. of the preserve 1 wineglass- ful of whisky. Turn it into jars, and when cold cover them with parchment, and tie them down. The whisky can be omitted if not liked. (4) Peel a well-grown Vegetable Marrow, cut it into halves, scoop out all the seeds, and then cut it into slices about Jin. wide and 1 Jin. long. Weigh the Marrow, and for each pound allow Jib. of sugar; put them together in a deep dish and let them stand for one day and night. Put the fruit and sugar into a preserving pan with sufficient grated lemon-peel and strained juice to give it a flavour, and boil the whole until the Marrow is trans- parent ; then turn it into jam-jars. When the jam is cold, put in each jar a round of brandied paper, cover them with parchment, tie them down, and put them away in a dry store-cupboard. Vegetable-marrow Marmalade. -Peel the Marrows, free them from the seeds, and cut them into very thin slices. For 61b. of the Marrow allow the finely minced peel of six lemons, 5oz. of ginger, and 5lb. of loaf sugar. Boil the lemon peel for a short time before mincing it, and tie the ginger in a piece of muslin. Put all the above ingredients into a preserving pan, and boil them gently for an hour-and a half. Trim oft' all the white from the six lemons, cut them into slices, put them into the marmalade, and boil for a-quarter-of-an hour longer. The ginger should be taken out of the marmalade as soon as the favour is ex tracted. Turn the marmalade into jars, and leave it until cold ; then put in each jar a round of white paper that has been dipped in brandy, and cover with parchment. Keep the marmalade in a cool dry store-cupboard. Vegetable Marrows—continued. Vegetable-marrow Pie.—Cut oft' the peel from 21b. of Vegetable Marrow, cut the Marrow in slices, put them into a saucepan of salted water, and boil them, ltub them through a fine sieve whilst still hot, stir in loz. of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 1 wineglassful of white wine, and two slightly-beaten eggs. Beat these well to- gether for five or six minutes, so as to make them light. Line a pie-dish with puff paste, put in the mixture, cover with more of the paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Glaze when done, and serve either hot or cold, as required. This is an excellent imitation of pumpkin pie. Vegetable-marrow Pudding.—Put a peeled Marrow into a saucepan, cover it with water, and boil it gently until soft. Strain the Marrow through a sieve, put it in a basin, and beat it up with jib. of sugar, 4 table-spoonfuls of Hour, and 1 teaspoonful of ground ginger. Beat two eggs with 1 pint of milk, and stir them in with the Marrow mixture. Turn the mixture into a pie-dish, and cover it with a rich fiat of puff paste. Bake the pie for nearly an hour in a moderate oven. When cooked, strew caster sugar over it, and serve. Vegetable-marrow Rissoles.—Peel one or two large Marrows, cut them through the centre, remove all the seeds, and fill the cavity with highly-seasoned beef or veal mince. Fasten them together, and stew them in a little beef gravy for about thirty minutes or so, when they should be done. Put them on a dish, pour the gravy round, and serve very hot. Vegetable-marrow Sauce.—Peel a medium-sized Vege- table Marrow, cut it up in slices, and take out all the seeds ; put it into a stewpan with 1 pint of broth, add one onion, peeled and sliced, sprinkle in a little cayenne, salt and pepper to taste, and stew gently over a moderate fire for an hour. Pass the pulp through a fine sieve, mix in 1 gill of hot cream, and serve in a sauceboat. Vegetable-marrow Saute.—Peel a Marrow, cut it into pieces about lin. square, removing all the seeds, put them in a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for ten minutes; then turn them on to a sieve, and let them drain. Put a good-sized lump of butter in a saute-pan, place it over the fire, put in the pieces of Marrow with plenty of finely-minced parsley and a seasoning of salt anil pepper, and toss them about till nicely browned and tender. Squeeze over the Marrow a few drops of lemon-juice, pile the pieces on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. Vegetable-marrow Soup.—(If Peel some Marrows, cut them into convenient-sized pieces, and scoop out the seeds; put the Marrow into a stewpan, moisten to height with stock, season with salt and pepper to taste and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and stew gently until tender. Pass the Marrow and liquor through a fine hair sieve, and mix with it lqt. of boiling milk. Put about 3oz. of butter in a saucepan with 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir them over the fire until well mixed ; then pour in gradually the puree of Marrow, and continue stirring the whole until boiling. Turn the soup into a soup tureen, and serve it very hot with a plate of sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been browned in butter. (2) Peel one or two full grown Vegetable Marrows, cut them into slices, and remove the seeds; peel and slice two or three onions, and wash and cut up into convenient lengths a head of celery. Put the vegetables into a stewpan with about 2oz. of butter, and toss them about over the fire for ten or twelve minutes. Moisten with 2qts. of clear white stock that is quite free of fat, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil gently until quite tender. Pass the soup through a line hair sieve, rubbing the vegetables through with a wooden spoon, return it to the saucepan, and boil it up again. Pour the soup into a soup tureen, and serve. (3) Take oft' the rinds from about six moderate-sized Vegetable Marrows, cut them into slices, put them in a saucepan with lqt. of boiling veal stock, and let them simmer until they are done and will easily press through