759 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Warren’s Cooking-pot and Curry-pan—continued. double to prevent the radiation of beat. The following are tlie directions given for using the “ pot ” : Water should be put in the saucepan or pot high enough to barely touch the bottom of the enclosed pot (b). The meat to be cooked must be placed without water in the pot (b), and the cover carefully adjusted, and Fig. 1033. Section of Warren’s Cooking-pot (Aclams and Son). a steam pipe inserted in a tube provided for the purpose. If vegetables are to be steamed as well as meat cooked in B, then a tube must be inserted in b to convey the steam into c. After bringing the water to the boil, the saucepan must be drawn to the side of the fire, near enough to keep it boiling. Sir Henry Thompson, in “ Food and Feeding,” says of the Cooking-pot that “ It is constructed on the plan of the bain-marie, but is associated with a steam chamber on the top, to be used or not, as required. This latter may be used for the cooking of vegetables, fish, and other foods, thus utilising the steam formed by the boiling water contained in the larger outside vessel, which heats the inner one. But the inner is used not only for stewing and boiling purposes, but also as a dry-cooker; that is to say, a fowl or a portion of meat being placed therein can be slowly cooked without water by a process occupying about twice or three times as long as that employed for ordinary boiling or roasting. In this case the flesh furnishes a quantity of liquid, slowly disengaged by low temperature, rising as vapour at first, and becoming condensed with its own natural juices into a broth or gravy, in which, at the conclusion of the process, the flesh is found partially or wholly immersed. On the top of this floats more or less fat in a melted state, and this can be removed in the usual manner. No loss whatever takes place by this method. All the albumen, extrac- tives, and juices of the flesh, will be found in the inner saucepan when the process is completed.” Under ordinary modes of cooking, meat has been com- puted to lose by roasting one-third of the original weight, or 5Joz. in the lb.; by boiling, 4foz. in the lb.; and by baking, 3jjoz. in the lb. By the use of Warren’s Cooking-pot all waste is prevented. “ Thus,” continues Sir Henry Thompson, “a most admirable and tender Irish stew may be made by placing, say about 41b. of neck of mutton, cut chiefly from the lower half of it (best end) in the usual way, with most of the fat removed, a little onion sliced, adding no liquid whatever, only a a little black pepper and salt to taste. The outside pot should contain sufficient water to form a shallow bath for the inner pot which contains the meat; the water should be boiling at the commencement of the pi’ocess, and for about a-quarter-of-an-hour afterwards, to antagonise the effect of the cold meat introduced. Then the pot should be removed to the corner of the fire, or over a gas-ring, so as to simmer, that is to maintain the water a few degrees below boiling-point. At the end of five or six hours or so Warren’s Cooking-pot and Curry-pan—continued. the meat will be found perfectly tender, delicately cooked, full of flavour, and amply supplied with its own excellent gravy. When the melted fat has been removed, the potatoes, which have been partially cooked in the upper chamber or steamer, or in some other vessel separately, should be added to the meat in the inner chamber for about half-an-hour and served in the usual manner.” Warren’s Curry-pan (see Fig. 1034) has already been described under the heading of Curry. It works upon the same principle as the Cooking-pot. WASHINGTON BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. WASHINGTON CAKE.—See Cakes. WASHINGTON PIE.—See Pies. WASSAIL.—This term originated from the Anglo- Saxon wes Ml, signifying literally “ be in health.” As certain times of the year are set apart for merry-making and drinking healths, so the word Wassail came to mean a kind of debauchery, but in modern times the term has almost disappeared. In some parts of England the following quatrain was at one time exceedingly popular: Wassail! Wassail! all over the town, Our toast it is white, our ale it is brown ; Our bowl is made of a maplin-tree, We be good fellows all; 1 drink to thee. Pepys, in his gossiping diary, alludes to Wassail thus: “ On the 4tli of January, 1667, Mrs. Pepys had company to dinner, and at night to sup, and then to cards, and last of all to have a flagon of ale and apples, drunk out of a wood cup, as a Christmas draught, which made all merry.” From the foregoing it is evident that the Wassail-bowl of our forefathers consisted essentially of a beverage made of ale, flavoured with spices, sweetened with sugar, and in which there floated about pieces of toast, and thin slices of apple. A very good modern Wassail-bowl may be made as follows: Put ilb. of loaf sugar in a large bowl, grate a nutmeg over it, and dust over 1 teaspoonful of powdered ginger ; pour over this 1 pint of hot beer, i pint of sherry, and 5 pints of cold beer; stir this thoroughly, put a cover over the bowl, and let it stand for two or three hours. Cut two or three thin slices of bread, toast them brown, cut them into pieces, and put them in the bowl. A pint of cider may be used instead of the wine; and some roasted apples may also be cut into slices and put in the bowl, or a few slices of lemon. WASTE.—There should be no such thing as Waste in a well-conducted kitchen. The term is often misapplied to the refuse that results from the preparation of vege- tables and other things for cooking. But the term “ kitchen Waste ” is also oftentimes more correctly applied than intended by the cook who uses it, that is, if the legitimate meaning is to be accepted of anything spoiled, destroyed, or thrown away. Waste is the outcome of extravagance, hence it is advisable for those in authority to carefully regulate the foods supplied for kitchen use, and to calculate the return. Kitchen-cloths are often objects of indiscriminate use. Jack-towels and dresser-cloths, tea-cloths and dusters, pudding-cloths and window-rags, are frequently misappropriated, leading to Waste. Remnants of food and dripping are invariably wasted by an untidy servant. Scraps of meat, bones, and shanks can be put in the stock- pot, which should be found in all kitchens. Some- thing may be added to the stock-pot daily, and this Fig. 1034. Warren’s Curry-pan (Adams and Son).