THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 772 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads■ Whiting—continued. Drain the fillets on a cloth, and dip them in the beaten whites, then in the breadcrumbs. Put a lump of dripping in a deep frying-pan, and when on the point of boiling- put in the fish, and fry them till nicely browned. Dram the fillets on a sheet of paper in front of the fire, then arrange them on an ornamental dish-paper or a folded napkin spread over a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of hot white ravigote sauce. Pried Pillets of Whiting.—Separate the fillets from the hones of some Whiting, trim neatly, brush them over with beaten egg, roll them in breadcrumbs, put them in a frying-pan with some hot fat, and fry till crisp. Make some Spanish sauce and mix it with some finely-chopped parsley, the juice of half a lemon, and a small lump of butter. When cooked, drain the fillets, arrange them in a circle on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish the centre with fried parsley, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Fried Whiting.—(1) Skin and clean some Whiting, then turn them and stick their tails through their eyes. Dredge them over with flour, dip them in beaten eggs, and coat thickly with breadcrumbs. Put either a lump of lard or fat that has been clarified into a frying-pan; when it is of the right heat (the best way to try it is to put in a lump of bread, and if it makes a slight hissing noise it is hot enough), put in the Whiting and fry them. When nicely browned all over, put the Whiting on a stout sheet of paper in front of the fire for a few minutes, then put them on an ornamental dish-paper or folded napkin that has been placed on a hot dish. Serve with a sauce- boatful of Dutch sauce. (2) Clean some Whiting well, cut off the fins, and dry them thoroughly. Fasten their tails in their mouths, brush them over with beaten egg, and roll them in a paper of breadcrumbs. Fry in boiling lard, drain them on paper, lay them on a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish nicely with fried parsley, and serve shrimp sauce with them. Grilled Whiting. —(1) Prepare as many fish as are desired, roll them round, fasten them with skewers, put them into a bowl of olive oil, and let them steep for several hours. Take them out, drain, place them over a clear fire, and grill them. When done, put them on a dish, dust over with salt and pepper, pour over a rich cream or veloute sauce with a few chopped capers stirred in, and decorate with small slices of lemon, tomato, and gherkin. (2) Clean and wash some Whiting, score them across in five or six places on each side, season them with pepper and salt, put them on a gridiron that has been greased, and broil them over a clear fire. Prepare and cook some sorrel as for garnish, and put it on a hot dish; when cooked, put the Whiting on the bed of sorrel, and serve. Paupiettes of Whiting.—(1) Clean some Whiting, separate the fillets from the skin and bones, season them with salt and pepper, and spread a layer of Whiting forcemeat on each fillet. Roll the fillets round the forcemeat, wrap them in sheets of buttered paper, and tie round with string. Put the paupiettes in a baking dish with some stock, and cook them. Prepare a paste croustade, making it the same size as the dish on which it is to he served, and Hin. high. Put the paupiettes in the croustade, leaving a space in the centre, which fill with a sal]iicon of mushrooms and oysters mixed with some German sauce that has been reduced with some essence of mushrooms. Serve without delay. (2) Draw and wash the required quantity of Whiting, separate the fillets from the hones, and trim them neatly. Spread some Whiting quenelle forcemeat over the white side of the fillets, and roll them up. Pile a dome of the forcemeat on the dish on which the fish is to be served—■ one that will hear the heat of the oven must be used— put a row of the rolled fillets round the dome, then put a circle of forcemeat round that to form a support for another row of fillets, which should be placed round it. Dust a small quantity of salt over the fish, cover them with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake in a quick oven for about twenty minutes. Put |lb. of butter into some Italian sauce, add a small quantity of essence of anchovies, Whiting —continued. stir the sauce over the fire till well mixed, and season it with salt and pepper. When cooked, take the fillets out of the oven, wipe the dish, pour the sauce over the fish, and serve. Scalded Whiting.—Split the requi ed quantity of Whiting down the belly, clean them, carefully removing all the black film, and take out the eyes. Put the fish in a deep dish, cover them with salted water, and let them steep all night. On the following day, roll the fish round and stick the tails through the eye-holes, put them into a fish-kettle of boiling water, boil the water, then take the scum off the top, and move the fish-kettle to the side of the fire. If the fish be small, they should he cooked in about five minutes. When done, drain the fish, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with sprigs of fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of butter that has been oiled. Souffle of Whiting.—Put 3oz. each of butter and flour into a saucepan with the yolks of four eggs, J teaspoonful of anchovy essence, and a seasoning of salt and pepper; mix well over a slow fire, add gradually 3 teacupfuls of milk, and stir well until the whole comes to the boil. As soon as it commences to thicken, stir quickly to remove any lumps, add 9oz. of finely-chopped uncooked Whiting, without skin or bones, and lastly the well-whipped whites of six eggs. Have ready a well-buttered souffle tin or mould, place a band of buttered paper round the rim to stand up quite 2|in. above it, pour in the mixture, sprinkle over with browned breadcrumbs, and place a few lumps of butter here and there. Put the mould into a hot oven and bake for fully forty-five minutes; remove the paper, fasten a folded napkin or dish-paper round the tin, sprinkle the souffle with chopped parsley and pepper, and serve hot. Stewed Whiting.—(1) Clean and cut the fish into nice-sized pieces, dredge them with flour, put them into a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them. When nicely browned, drain the fish, and put it in a stewpan. Peel and slice an onion, put it in the frying pan with the butter that the fish was fried in, and fry that also. Turn the onion in with the fish, add a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three cloves, a small piece of mace, salt and pepper, and sufficient water to cover. Thicken it with a table- spoonful or two of flour, flavour with a few drops of mushroom ketchup, and keep it stewing gently at the edge of the fire until quite tender. When cooked, remove the herbs, turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish with Whiting forcemeat balls that have been poached in water, and serve. (2) Scale and cut off the fins of half a large Whiting, wash and dry it well, then cut it into thick slices. Place a lump of butter in a flat stewpan, slightly warm it, then put in a layer of trimmings of mushrooms and a small quantity of chopped onions. Put in the slices of Whiting, laying them side by side, sprinkle some salt over them, put in a bunch of parsley and a bay-leaf, and squeeze in the juice of two lemons. Cover the contents of the stewpan with the liquor that has been strained off three dozen oysters, put the lid on, and boil the fish for ten minutes over a quick fire. When cooked, take the slices of Whiting out carefully with a slice, and arrange them on a hot dish. Take the parsley out of the cooking- liquor, and boil it till somewhat reduced. Work a small lump of butter with I table-spoonful of flour, put it in the sauce, and stir it over the fire for a few- minutes longer. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, put in -jib. of fresh butter broken into small pieces, stir it by the side of the fire till dissolved, then put in thirty oysters. Pour the sauce over the fish, and serve. Whiting a la Chef de Cuisine.—Clean and wash two Whiting, rub them well with salt to prevent them break- ing, and leave for an hour or two. Lay the fish at the bottom of a broad flat stewpan, pour in some gravy to about half their height, put in an onion cut in quarters and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and boil the fish gently for twenty minutes. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a saucepan,