748 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. V inegar—co n tinued. Vinegar Syrup.—Beat the white of an egg to a stiff froth, and put it in a saucepan with 31b. of caster sugar and f pint of the best malt Vinegar. St ir the mixture once, then place it over a charcoal lire, and boil for half a minute. Skim the syrup, remove it from the lire, and put in a small quantity of marjoram that has been tied up in a piece of muslin ; cover with the lid, and leave the contents until cold. Pass the syrup through a clean cloth or a silk sieve, pour it into a bottle, cork it tightly, and put it by for use. In hot weather the above syrup can be taken mixed with cold water, and it will be found an agreeable beverage. Vinegar Whey.—Put 4 pint each of milk and water in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and boil. Pour sufficient Vinegar in the milk to form a curd, boil it up again, then strain it through a jelly-bag. Serve the whey while hot. VINO-COLTO. —A cordial manufactured in Milazzo, from wine must boiled with potash. VINO-SANTO .—An Italian wine manufactured in Perugia. VIN-REGNO.—The name given to a medicinal wine prepared from essence of beef, port wine, extract of malt, and quinine. It is commonly known as Pearson’s Beef Wine, and is strongly recommended by the medical faculty for its health-giving qualities. VINS DE LIQUEUR—The French name for sweet sugary wines. VINS ORDINAIRES.—The French name of a class of wines which possess very little body or flavour. VIOLETS (Fr. Violettes; Ger. Veilclien; Ital. Violette; Sp. Yioletas).—One of the prettiest fancies of the artistic confectioner is the use they occasionally make of sweet-smelling and pleasantly-flavoured flowers. Amongst these the Violet (Viola odorata) holds a very prominent position, its deep rich colour rendering it ex- ceedingly acceptable for its appearance sake. Orris-root is very similar in flavour and smell to Violets, for which it is often used as a substitute. Candied Violets.—Take some double Violets and pick off the green stalks. Clarify and boil some loaf sugar to the blow (see Sugar-boiling), put the Violets into it, and let the sugar again boil to the blow ; draw the pan from the fire, and rub the sugar against the sides of the pan till it turns white; stir all together till the sugar sepa- rates from the Violets, then sift and put them into the stove to dry. For garnishing sweet dishes, compotes, &c., these (see Fig. 1013) are exceedingly useful and pretty. Essence of Violets.—(1) Infuse a pressed-down quart of freshly-gathered perfumed Violets in 4 gall, of plain spirit for a fortnight. Strain off or filter into bottles, and cork. (2) Imitation.—Put lib. of finely-ground orris-root into a jar with 1 gall, of spirits of wine or grain spirit, and let it infuse; then mix it in 3lb. of sugar and lqt. of water. Let it remain for a month, filter, and bottle. Preserved Violets.—Soak a quantity of freshly-gathered, nicely-picked, blue Violet blossoms in cold watei foi a few minutes, and dry them in a soft cloth. Make a syrup of lib. of loaf sugar, and boil it till when a little For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, , Violets—continued. put into cold water becomes brittle. Add to the syrup one drop of essential oil of Violets, a tiny bit of carmine about the size of a good-sized pin’s head, and the same quantity of ultra-marine blue; take care to use vegetable colouring matter that is harmless. Throw in the Violets, and stir them about in the syrup very carefully with a silver fork till they are well coated with sugar; then lay them on a sieve to dry. Syrup of Violets.—(1) Put the leaves of lib. of freshly- gathered Violets into a basin, pour a small quantity more than I pint of boiling water over them, cover immediately, and leave for fourteen hours. Strain the liquor off the V iolets through a fine hair sieve into a saucepan, put in 31b. of crushed loaf sugar, and stir over the fire until dissolved. When the liquor commences to boil, remove it at once from the fire, cover, and leave it until nearly colil. Pass the syrup through a cloth or fine silk sieve, pour it into a suitable bottle, cork tightly, and put by until required for use. (2) Put lqt. of freshly gathered Violets into a jar with 4 gall, of plain spirit, and infuse for two weeks. Strain oil' the liquor, which will be the essence of Violets, and add to the Howers lqt. of syrup. Let it stand for a fort- night longer, then strain the liquor through a cloth, ex- tracting as much as possible. Add sufficient indigo and cochineal to give it the required Violet tint, and bottle. Violet Balls.—Melt Bb. 0f sugar in a little cold water, mix with it I caltspoonful of cream of tartar, put it over a moderate lire, and let it boil till a little of it thrown into cold water will form a soft jelly. Remove it from the lire then immediately, let it stand closely covered for ten minutes, and beat it to a cream with a small wooden spatula. Work in 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet almonds blanched and grated, add a flavouring of heliotrope, and work the cream into balls. Roll these balls in preserved Violet leaves mashed to powder. Violet Conserve.—Pick from their stalks some early Violets; put 2oz. of them into a mortar, and pound and bruise them well. Put over the fire lib. of loaf sugar, clarify it, and boil to the crack (see Sugar boiling) ; take it from the fire, add the pulp of the Violets, return the pan to the lire, and as soon as the sugar bubbles up pour the con- serve into moulds. Violet Drops.—(1) Mix 1 table-spoonful of essence of Violets with the strained juice of three lemons, add sufficient powdered white sugar to form a pretty thick paste, colour it blue, dry it over the fire a little, and then drop it from the point of a knife on to paper. Let the drops be about the size of a sixpence. Let them stand till quite cold, then take them from the paper, and put in papered boxes. (2) Sift about 211). or so of sugar through a coarse sieve and then through a liner one, rejecting the fine powder, as it has a tendency to make the drops heavy and thick, and greatly interferes with their appearance. Put the 21b. of sugar into a sugar pan, and add sufficient water to make it of such a consistency that it will drop from the spoon without sticking to it. Set the pan on a ring on the stove, and with a spatula stir until the sugar is dissolved and upon the point of boiling; remove from the stove, add sufficient essence of Violets to flavour, and con- tinue to stir until when dropped on to a board it will retain a round form and not spread too much. A little coarsely-powdered sugar may be added should it be too thin. Drop it in small lumps upon a tin, and let them dry for about two hours. Remove them, and pack away in boxes. Violets in Jelly.—Dissolve Hoz. of gelatine, previously soaked in a teacupful of water, with a small quantity of sugar and lemon-juice. Put fib. of sugar in a saucepan, with 1 j>int of water, the white of an egg, the juice of half a lemon, and stir it over the fire till reduced to a thin syrup; then filter it through a jelly-bag, return it to the saucepan or sugar-pan, and warm up again. Pick the stalks off a small quantity of freshly-gathered Violets, and put the flowers in the syrup; place the lid on the stewpan, and leave it for ten minutes. Strain the syrup through a tine hair sieve, and mix the clarified gelatine ,uces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads.