TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 744 For details resecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their s. ecial heads. Vermicelli—continued. Vermicelli—continued. there with a skewer, put them in the oven, and hake until nicely browned. Put lib. of loaf sugar into a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil it until reduced to a thick syrup. When the patties are cooked, pour the syrup over, and place in a slow oven for a few minutes. Cut them into quarters, arrange them on a dish (see Fig. 1008), and serve. Vermicelli Pudding.—(1) Trim off the skin and discoloured parts from 2oz. of beef-suet, and chop it fine; then put it in a saucepan with 1 breakfast cupful of milk and Jib. of Vermicelli, and stir them over the fire until boiling. Boil the mixture for live minutes, then turn it into a basin and leave till cool. When ready, stir in with the Vermicelli 4 heaped table-spoonfuls of sugar, 1b table- spoonfuls of orange marmalade, 'five well-beaten eggs, and a few drops of ratafia. Brush the interior of a mould with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, then pour in the mixture; tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three- parts its height, and steam it for two hours. Meanwhile prepare the following sauce : Slightly warm 2oz. of butter, beat it until creamy with 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, then stir in gradually 1 scant breakfast-cupful of boiling water. Turn the mixture into a saucepan, and stir it over a slow fire till on the point of boiling, then move it off at once. Mix in the sauce, 2 wineglassfuls of sherry and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould, pour the sauce round it, and serve. (2) Put 2oz. of Vermicelli in a saucepan with lqt. of milk and boil until tender. Beat six eggs well with 4oz. of caster sugar and about 3 wineglassfuls of rose-water. Put Jib. of butter in with the Vermicelli, move the sauce- pan off the fire, and stir in the beaten eggs. Butter a pie dish, line it with puff paste, and pour the Vermicelli into it. Put it in a brisk oven and bake. Serve the pudding hot. (3) Put 3oz. of Vermicelli into a saucepan with a small lump of butter and 1 pint of milk. Stir it over the fire until thick and it does not stick to the sides of the saucepan, then take it off, and leave until cool. Blanch and pound 1 heaped table-spoonful of sweet almonds with four bitter ones, then mix them with the Vermicelli and add the beaten yolks of four eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a small quantity of spice. Whisk the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in gently at the last. Butter the interior of a dome-shaped mould, fill it with the mixture, tie a cloth over, and boil for an hour. The water must not cease boiling until the pudding is done. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve it with a sauceboatful of wine sauce. The spice may be omitted if not approved of. (4) Pour 1 pint of milk into a saucepan with loz. of butter, bring it to the boil, add 4oz. of Vermicelli crushed in the hand, and stir it over the fire until quite thick, which should take about five minutes. Remove the pan from the fire, stir in 2oz. of sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, a seasoning of grated nutmeg, loz. of blanched and chopped almonds, and the yolks of three eggs, stirring vigorously and continually. Now add the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth, stir them in gently, turn the pre- paration into a well-buttered mould dusted with sugar, put a piece of buttered paper over the top, and steam over a saucepan of boiling water for about an hour. Turn it out on to a dish, and pour fruit sauce over or round; or serve it in a sauceboat. (5) Put 5oz. of Vermicelli into a lined saucepan with H pints of milk, a piece of stick cinnamon, and a few lumps of loaf sugar. When all the moisture is absorbed, remove the cinnamon, and turn the Vermicelli into a bowl. When cool, work in with it the beaten yolks of four eggs and the whites of two that have been whisked to a froth. Thickly butter the interior of a plain mould, strew in some finely-grated breadcrumb, shake out the superfluous, and pour in the Vermicelli. Bake the pudding for half an-hour in a moderate oven. Turn it out on to a hot dish, and serve with a jam or wine sauce, either poured over or in a sauceboat. (fi) Put Jib. of Vermicelli into lqt. of milk with a small piece of stick cinnamon, and boil it. Beat up together the yolks of four eggs, Jib. of warmed butter, and 1 pint of cream. When the Vermicelli has boiled quite soft, pick out the cinnamon, and pour the Vermi- celli into the beaten eggs, &c.; mix in with it some beef- marrow, a little flour, and sufficient white powdered sugar to sweeten ; beat all well together for half an-hour. Dip a cloth into boiling water, flour it well, tie the pudding in it, and boil. (7) Put Jib. of Vermicelli into 1 pint of milk with a piece of stick cinnamon, and let it boil till the Vermicelli is quite tender. Mix with it the yolks of four well-beaten eggs, Jib. of powdered white sugar, Jib. of butter, and b pint of cream. Put it into a pudding-dish, and bake. (8) Boil lqt. of milk in a saucepan, add Jib. of Vermi- celli, and with a wliisk stir briskly and continually for fifteen minutes. Take from the fire, let it cool, and add 4oz. of powdered sugar, mixing well for one minute. Break in four eggs, flavour with 1 teaspoonful of vanilla essence, and mix well for two minutes longer. Butter and sugar well six small pudding-moulds, and with a ladle fill up the moulds with the Vermicelli; place them in a tin pan, pouring in warm but not boiling water to half the height of the moulds, then put them in the oven and steam for thirty five minutes. Remove, take the moulds from the pan with a towel, and with a thin knife detach them ; turn them on to a hot dish, and serve with the following sauce: Put 1 pint of milk to boil in a saucepan on the stove. Break into a vessel two eggs, add loz. of flour, boz. of cornflour, and 3oz. of powdered sugar, beating the whole well together with a spatula for three minutes. If the milk be boiling, add it gradually to the preparation, stirring continually for two minutes; return the whole to the saucepan, place it on the stove, and stir briskly until it comes to the boil; then remove, and add immediately 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Strain the sauce through a sieve into a sauce-bowl, and serve. (9) German.—Put 1 pint of milk and 2oz. of butter into an enamelled stewpan, and boil it; then strew in 3oz. of Vermicelli, and stir it until thick and cooked, using a wooden spoon. Leave the Vermicelli until somewhat cooled, then mix in 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 1 table-spoonful of blanched and pounded sweet almonds, 1 scant teaspoonful of pounded bitter almonds, and a small quantity of grated lemon peel. Separate the yolks and whites of six eggs; beat the yolks first and stir them in the above mixture, then whisk the whites to a stiff snow and add them. Butter a mould, fill it with the mixture, tie a stout pudding-cloth over the top, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. When cooked, serve the pudding with a fruit sauce. Vermicelli Souffle.—Put loz. of Vermicelli into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for twenty minutes; then drain oft' all the water, put in J pint of milk and a few pieces of tliinly-shred lemon-peel, sweeten to taste, and stew at the side of the fire until it has absorbed all the milk. Let the Vermicelli get cold, then mix with it the beaten yolks of four eggs. Whisk the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, stir them in lightly and quickly with the above mixture, and turn the whole into a plain mould. Bake the souffle in a brisk oven for about twenty minutes, or until well risen and lightly browned on the top; then take it out, pin a napkin round the mould, and serve at once. Vermicelli Soup.—(1) Put from 31b. to 41b. of knuckle of veal, 1 Jib. of scrag of mutton, and Jib. of ham, all cut into small pieces, in a saucepan with Jib. of butter and an onion stuck with three cloves, and fry them over the fire for ten minutes. Put in with the meat a bunch of sweet herbs, one anchovy, two carrots, three blades of mace, three carrots, and three heads of celery. Put the lid on the saucepan, and set it over- the fire till all the gravy has been extracted from the meat. Drain the gravy into a basin, pour 4qts. of water over the meat, and boil slowly till reduced to 3 pints. Strain the soup into another saucepan, pour in the gravy from the meat, add