701 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ctec., referred to, see under their special heads. V eal—continued. way till all the forcemeat is used, then cover them with boiling salted water, stand the saute-pan over the fire, and boil the water; then move it to the side, put the lid on, and let it simmer for five minutes. Drain the quenelles, and dry them on a cloth. Pile some button- mushrooms, trufties, and cocks’ combs, prepared as for garnish, in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the quenelles round it in an upright position, decorate the top and between the quenelles with some trufties and cocks’ combs (see Fig. 950), coat the whole with veloutc sauce that has been reduced with some trimmings of mushrooms, and serve it. Quenelles of Veal with Tomato Sauce.—Mince some lean, uncooked Veal, and pound it in a mortar. Make half its quantity of paste, by boiling a little flour and water together with a small lump of butter, and leaving it to get cold. Mix the paste with the Veal, pound the whole again, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Season the mixture to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of spices, and beat well in with it a sufficient quantity of yolk of egg to bring it to the proper con- sistency. Try if the mixture is of the right consistency by poaching a small quantity of it in boiling water. Shape the mixture into quenelles with two table-spoons, and lay each one as it is done in a buttered flat stewpan, leaving a short space between each. Put in one of the clear spaces about 1 dessert spoonful of salt, pour carefully round the quenelles a sufficient quantity of boiling water to cover them, and poach them for ten minutes. Have ready prepared the following sauce: Cut up about lib. of ripe tomatoes, put them into a stewpan with a few sprigs of parsley, thyme, and marjoram, also a laurel leaf, all tied together, add a few cloves and peppercorns, salt to taste, and a small quantity of water, and- stew them till tender. When cooked, drain oft as much of the water as possible from the tomatoes, and rub them through a fine hair sieve. Mix together in a stewpan loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour, add the tomato pulp, and stir it over the fire until very hot. Turn the tomato sauce on to a hot dish, drain the quenelles and lay them on it, and serve. Rechauffe of Cold Veal.—(1) Mix with some finely-grated breadcrumbs some finely-chopped lemon-peel, parsley, and sweet herbs, seasoning them with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Cut some cold cooked Veal into thin slices, dip them in beaten egg, and coat them thickly with the above mixture. Put a lump of butter in a deep frying-pan, melt it, put in the slices of Veal, and fry them till well and equally browned. When done, drain the Veal, and put it on a hot dish. Mix a little flour in the frying-pan with the butter, add the juice of a small lemon, 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and h pint of veal broth, and stir it over the fire till boiling. Garnish the Veal with slices of lemon and pickled mushrooms, pour the sauce over it, and serve at once. (2) Cut some cold roasted Veal into thin slices, spread a little of the stuffing over them, and dust them over with pepper, salt, and flour. Put 1 teacupful of flour in a basin with a little dried parsley, pepper, and salt, then stir in gradually | pint of skim milk and two well beaten eggs. Put a lump of butter (about loz.) into a deep frying-pan, and when it boils pour in the batter, put the slices of meat in the middle, and fry it over a slow fire for ten minutes, shaking the pan to prevent it burning. When the batter is set, bring the edges up over the meat, then turn it quickly on to the other side. When cooked, take the rechauffe up with a slice, put it on to a hot dish, pour a little brown gravy over it, and serve. Roasted Breast of Veal.—(1) Remove the tendons from a breast of Veal, fasten the sweetbread to the joint with skewers, wrap it in a sheet of buttered paper, and roast it in front of a clear fire. When the Veal is cooked, which will take about one-hour-and-a-quarter, or per- haps more according to the size of the joint, remove the paper, put the Veal on a hot dish, garnish it with slices of lemon, pour over it a little rich gravy, and serve with a sauceboatful of melted butter. Veal—continued. (2) Cut the tendons off the Veal, wash and wipe it dry, stuff it with Veal forcemeat, and secure it with small skewers. Fix the Veal in front of a clear fire, and baste it well with butter, allowing it to roast twenty minutes for each pound. When cooked, put the Veal on a hot dish, cover it with melted butter, and serve it. Roasted Chump of Veal.—Put a chump of Veal in a deep dish, dust some mixed herbs, salt, and pepper over it, cover it with white wine, and let it soak for two days. At the end of that time, lard the Veal with some strips of bacon, and roast it in front of a clear fire. In the meantime, prepare some ravigote sauce. When cooked, put the chump of Veal on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Roasted Chump of Veal with German Garnishing.— Bone and truss a chump of Veal to its former shape, wrap it in a sheet of buttered paper, and roast it in front of a clear fire. When nearly cooked, take the paper off the chump, and brown it. Put it on a hot dish, garnish it with nouilles a l’allemande, and serve with a sauceboatful of German sauce. Roasted Cushion of Veal.—Cut off the udder and trim a cushion of Veal, lard it inwardly with squares of raw ham, bacon, and trufties, cover it with trimmings of mush- rooms, a few sprigs of thyme, two or three bay-leaves, and season it with pepper, salt and spices. Wrap the Veal in a pig’s caul, tie it round the twine, fix it on a spit, and roast it in front of a clear fire. In an hour’s time, take the string and caul off the meat, baste it well, and roast it for twelve or fifteen minutes longer. When cooked, put the meat on a hot dish, pour some tomato sauce round it, and serve. Roasted Fillet of Veal.—Bone 101b. of the fillet of Veal, rub it well with salt and pepper, fill the hollow left by the bone with ham forcemeat, tie the meat round, and skewer it. Cut Hb. of salt pork into thin slices, put half of these on a sheet of tin that will fit in the drip ping-pan, put the Veal in the pan, and cover it with the remaining slices of pork; then pour h teacupful of hot water in the pan and stand it in the oven, adding more water as it dries up. Baste the meat frequently with salt, pepper, flour, and the gravy in the pan. In three hour’s time remove the pork off the Veal, spread the top thickly with butter and flour, and cook it for half-an- hour longer; then cover it with more butter and flour, and bake it till well browned. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan, with 2 piled up table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire till brown. Pour A pint of stock or water in with the butter, stir it two or three minutes over the fire, then move it to the side where it will keep warm. When cooked, take up the fillet of Veal and put it on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the gravy in the pan, pour in sufficient boiling water to make l pint of gravy, stir it well, then pour it in the sauce- pan with the sauce. Boil the sauce, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and season it to taste with pepper and salt. Strain the sauce over the Veal, garnish it with slices of lemon, and serve. Roasted Fillets of Veal with Fine Herbs.—Lard the fillets with thin strips of bacon, put them in a deep dish with some finely chopped mushrooms, shallots, chives, parsley, fennel, laurel-leaves, and thyme; dust a small quantity of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg over them, cover them with olive oil, and let them soak for three or four hours. Drain the oil from the fillets, cover them well with the mixed herbs, wrap them in thickly-buttered sheets of paper, fastening them securely to keep the herbs in, and roast them in front of a clear fire. When cooked, take the paper off the fillets and scrape off the herbs. Put the herbs in a saucepan with some gravy, a squeeze of lemon-juice, pepper, salt, and a lump of butter, and boil it. Beat the yolk of an egg with a little warmed butter, rub the fillets in it and then in grated breadcrumbs, giving them a good coating, and brown them in a quick oven. When cooked, put the fillets on a folded napkin or orna- mental dish paper on a hot dish,, garnish with fried parsley, and serve them with the sauce in a sauceboat.