794 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Woodcocks—continued. buttered paper, and roast them in front of a clear fire, keeping them rather underdone. When cooked, take the intestines out of the birds. Put some finely-chopped mushrooms, one shallot, and some parsley in a frying-pan with a small lump of butter, anil fry them. When the herbs are nearly cooked, put in the intestines of the birds and three fat livers of fowls, and fry them. Put the mixture into a mortar, pound it, season with salt, pepper, and spices, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Cut the fillets off the birds, and fry some pieces of bread of an equal size and shape in butter till nicely browned. Warm the fillets in some sauce prepared with the bones and trimmings of the Woodcocks. Cover the pieces of bread with the forcemeat, and bake them in a quick oven for a few minutes. Arrange the fillets of Woodcocks and pieces of bread alternately in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. (6) Remove the trails from some Woodcocks, then wrap the birds in sheets of buttered paper to prevent them browning, and roast them in front of a clear fire. When cooked, leave the birds till cold, then cut each into four pieces, and trim off the skin. Break the bones, put them in a saucepan with the trimmings, two or three shallots, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few cloves, and f pint of claret. Boil the wine till reduced to half its original quantity, then pour in lqt. of Spanish sauce. Let the liquor simmer by the side of the tire for three quarters-of an hour, keeping it constantly skimmed, then strain it through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, and boil it till it will coat a spoon. Chop the trails, mix them with some fat liver forcemeat, and poach them. Fry some crofitons of bread in fat, and when of a light golden brown spread them with the forcemeat. Warm the pieces of Woodcock in the sauce, then arrange them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with the crofitons, and serve. (7) Cut up some Woodcocks, arrange the pieces on a dish, and put it on a stand over a lighted lamp fed with spirits of wine. Add to the birds 3 good dessert-spoon- fuls of sherry, the strained juice of three lemons, a little butter, a small quantity of shred shallots, some raspings of crust of bread sprinkled over the birds, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Let them simmer in the dish for ten minutes, stirring them every now and then. Turn into a hot dish, and serve. Salmis of Woodcocks a la Chasseur.—Pluck, singe, draw, pick out the eyes, and remove the skin from the heads of six fine Woodcocks, wipe them, truss them by hooding them in their breasts, put them in a roasting-pan with ^ pinch of salt, and cook for four minutes in the oven. Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with half a raw carrot and half a raw onion, all cut in pieces, a small bouquet garni, and six whole peppers. Cook for five minutes on the stove, moisten with ^ pint of Spanish sauce, § wineglassful of sherry wine, and 3 table-spoonfuls of mushroom liquor; season with h pinch of salt and | pinch of pepper, and cook for fifteen minutes longer. Stick a good sized mushroom in the bill of each bird, put them in a saute-pan, strain over the sauce, and add twelve mushrooms, cut into halves, and the zest of one lemon. Cook for six minutes longer, arrange on a round dish, de- corating it with fried bread croutons (see Fig. 1079), pour the sauce over, and serve. Stewed Stuffed Woodcocks.—Bone the requisite quantity of birds, cut off some of the breast-meat, and cut it into small pieces; chop an equal quantity of raw truffles and Woodcocks—continued. fat livers, put them in a basin with the meat, season, and baste them with 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine. Chop the meat of the legs together with a small quantity of pigeon flesh, put them in a mortar with an equal quan- tity of panada, and pound them. Season the mixture to taste, and add to it sufficient beaten eggs to bring it to the right consistency, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put the trails of the Woodcocks and six chickens’ livers in a frying-pan with some rasped bacon-fat, and fry them. When cooked, leave the trails and livers till cold, then pound them in a mortar, pass them through a fine hair sieve, and add to the other pounded meat, also mix in the breast meat and truffles that have been basted with Madeira. Stuff the Woodcocks with the mixture, roll them up, tie some slices of bacon round them, and roll each one separately in a cloth. Put the birds in a saucepan with sufficient stock to cover them, and let them simmer gently for an hour. When cooked, drain the birds, leave them till partly cooled, then bind them up tighter, press them under a light weight, and leave them till quite cold. Boil the cooking-liquor of the birds till re- duced to half glaze; take the Woodcocks and cut the breasts across in slices, but without removing the slices, put them in the reduced stock, and baste them con- stantly by the side of the fire till they are hot through. Poach some forcemeat, and fry a block of bread, cut to nearly the height of the Woodcocks. Coat the bread with some of the poached forcemeat, and put the remainder on a hot dish, standing the bread support in the centre. Place the birds in an upright position round the bread, putting the heads, that have been slightly cooked and brushed over with melted glaze, between each. Garnish three attelette skewers with truffles, and stick them in the top of the bread. Pour over some sauce prepared with the trimmings of the Woodcocks and truffles, and serve. Terrine of Woodcocks.—Bone some Woodcocks, split them in halves, put them in a dish with some quarters of peeled truffles, an equal quantity of cooked fat ham cut in squares, and 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of Madeira; season the above ingredients well. Cut the meat oft' a leg of hare, divide it into small pieces, put them in a deep frying-pan with double the quantity of game livers and a lump of butter, and fry the meat till set; then put in the trails of the Woodcocks, fry them, and when cooked, leave them till cool. Chop the fried livers, &c., put them in a mortar with a third of their quantity of chopped lean pork, the same of fresh fat bacon, and the trimmings. Pound them all, then season this forcemeat with some pepper, salt, and a pinch of sweet herbs, turn it into a basin, and strain into it the Madeira in which the Woodcocks have been steeped. Cover the bottom and sides of a terrine with some of the forcemeat, then fill it with alternate layers of Woodcocks, truffles, ham, and forcemeat. When full, smooth the surface of the pie with the blade of a knife, and cover it with slices of bacon. Put the cover on the terrine, place it in a saute-pan with a small quantity of hot water, and bake it for an hour and a half in a moderate oven. When cooked, take the terrine out of the oven, let it remain till half cold, then put a light weight on the top and leave it till quite cold. Cut the pie into oblongs, arrange them in a circle in the terrine, and serve. Woodcocks a la Chef de Cuisine.—Put in 2qts. of water over the fire, lib. of lean beef cut into pieces, two blades of mace, some whole pepper, and an onion stuck with a few cloves ; boil all these till the liquor has reduced to lqt., strain it, and put it at the side of the fire to keep warm. Draw the Woodcocks, put them into the broth, and boil them in it for twelve minutes. Mince the trail and liver very fine, and put them in a saucepan over the fire with about h pint of the gravy the Woodcocks are boiling in, and a small blade of mace. Place a dish in front of the fire, and rub on to it through a sieve the crumb of a stale French roll. Roll 4oz. of butter in flour, add it and 1 breakfast- cupful of port wine to the trail, put it over the fire, and shake it round in the saucepan till the butter has quite dissolved. Take the breadcrumbs from the dish before the fire,