TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 771 Whiting —continued. juice, 1 pinch of cayenne pepper, and salt to taste; stir this sauce over the fire till boiling, then pour it over the boudins, which should have been kept hot in the oven while the sauce was being prepacd. Stick the scallops of lobster-tails in the boudins, the red part upwards, and serve them. (3) Make some Whiting forcemeat, divide it into small equal-sized quantities, and on a floured table roll them into the shape of a cork. Make a salpifon of mussels, cutting them into small pieces, and mixing them with some reduced German sauce. Make a hollow in each boudin, fill them with the salpicon, cover the openings with forcemeat, roll the boudins in strips of buttered paper, put them in a stewpan with some stock, and let them simmer gently for fifteen minutes, or till the forcemeat has set. Mix the cooking-liquor of the mussels with some German sauce, boil it till reduced, then mix in 1 table spoonful of chopped parsley. Drain the boudins, put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. (4) Prepare some Whiting forcemeat, shape it with the hands into boudins by rolling them on a floured table, dip them in beaten egg, and cover them with bread crumbs. Put the boudins on a greased gridiron and broil them over a clear fire. When cooked and nicely browned, arrange them in a circle on a folded table napkin or an ornamental dish paper on a hot dish, and serve them with a sauceboatful of half glaze in which a small quantity of lemon-juice has been squeezed. Boudins of Whiting- with Tried Mussels.—-Clean some Whiting, separate the flesh from the bones, and trim off the skin; put the flesh in a mortar and pound it; mash Jib. of panada, adding Alb. of butter, then put in the pounded fish again, season it with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs. Pound the above mixture for ten minutes, then pass it through a fine hair sieve into a basin. Cut three or four black truffles into small squares, mix them with the forcemeat, and add A table-spoonful of anchovy essence. Divide the forcemeat into twelve pieces, form each piece into an egg shape, and dip them in beaten egg and then in finely grated breadcrumb. Put some dripping or butter into a frying-pan, warm it, then put in the boudins and fry them till nicely browned and cooked. Before the boudins are fried, thoroughly wash in several waters some large mussels, remove the sinewy strings, put the mussels in a stewpan with A pint of white wine, and toss them over the fire till they open. Drain the mussels, take them out of their shells, and leave them till co'ol. Dip the mussels one by one into villeroy sauce, lay them side by side on a dish, and leave till the sauce has cooled. Cover the mussels thickly with breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan containing boiling fat, and fry them till nicely browned; fry the boudins at the same time but in a separate pan. Drain the boudins, arrange them in a circle on an ornamental dish-paper that has been placed on a hot dish, drain the mussels, put them in the circle (see l1 ig. 1053), and serve. B ofc Whitin£ with Ravigote Sauce.—Make some W luting forcemeat, divide it into equal-sized portions, put them on a floured table, and roll them out with the hand to the shape of a cork. Make a hollow in the centie of each boudin with the handle of a wooden spoon, Whiting—continued. and fill them with a salpifon of shrimps’ tails cut into small pieces, and mixed with some reduced German sauce. Cover the apertures in the boudins with forcemeat in such a way as to completely hide the salpifon. Wrap the boudins in strips of buttered paper, put them in a saute- pan with some stock, and let them simmer gently till the forcemeat has set (this should take about fifteen minutes). When cooked, drain the boudins, put them on a hot dish, pour some ravigote sauce over them, and serve. Broiled Whiting.—Scale and draw the required quantity of Whiting, wash them thoroughly, dry on a cloth, split them on both sides of the back, and preserve the livers. Beat the yolk of an egg and season it with a small quantity of pepper and salt. Dip a paste-brush in the beaten egg and brush the fish over, then coat them with breadcrumbs, brush them over with butter that has been just warmed on the stove, anil breadcrumb them- again. Put them on a gridiron and broil them over a clear but not too fierce fire till nicely browned all over. To prevent the fish sticking, grease the gridiron before putting them on it. When cooked, put the Whiting on a folded napkin or ornamental dish paper that has been placed on a hot dish, garnish with neat little sprigs of parsley, and serve them with a sauceboatful of maitre d’hotel sauce. Fry the liver in butter, then chop it up finely, and put it in the sauce. Buttered Whiting.—Clean the Whiting, scale them, cut off the fins, and wash them well. Rub a small quantity of pepper and salt over the Whiting, and coat them thickly with flour on both sides. Put them into a baking-dish with a lump of butter, and bake them in a quick oven. When half cooked, turn the Whiting, baste them well with the butter, and finish cooking them. When nicely browned, drain the fish, put them on an ornamental dish-paper or a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with slices of lemon and some small sprigs of parsley, and serve. Dried Whiting.—Take fish of about *21b. or 31b. weight, clean them thoroughly, cut off the gills, take out the eyes, wash oft the blood from the backbone, and dry them thoroughly with a cloth; then put salt into the sockets of the eyes and inside the bodies, lay them on a board, and let them remain there all night. The following day hang them in a dry place and let them hang for four days. Then skin them, brush over with beaten egg, cover them with sifted breadcrumbs, put them in a Dutch oven before the fire, and baste with butter till sufficiently browned. Serve hot with egg sauce. Fillets of Whiting a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Clean and wash the required quantity of Whiting, dry them on a cloth, then separate the fillets from the bones. Divide the fillets into halves, season them with salt and pepper, brush over with beaten yolks of eggs, breadcrumb them, brush over with clarified butter, and broil over a clear fire till nicely browned. Put the fish on a hot dish, cover with maitre d’hotel sauce, and serve. Fillets of Whiting a l’Orly.—(1) Clean some Whiting and separate the fillets from the bones, trim them, and if large divide them into halves. Season the fillets with salt and pepper, squeeze some lemon juice over them, and coat them well with flour. Melt a lump of dripping or butter in a frying-pan, then put in the fish, and fry them over a brisk fire. When cooked (they should be nicely browned), drain the fish on a sheet of paper, then arrange them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve them with a sauce- boatful of tomato sauce. (2) Clean and scale the requisite quantity of fish, wash and dry them, then pick out the fillets. Trim the fillets on both sides, taking care not to damage the skin, cut each into halves, put them into a deep dish with some chopped parsley roots and shallots, dust in a small quantity of salt and pepper, and squeeze in the juice of one lemon. Stir the fillets about now and then to mix them well with the seasoning, and let them macerate for three hours. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth ; grate some crumb of stale bread, and mix it with a little flour. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. 8l)2