THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 783 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Wines—continued. since the affection is liable to return, after a lapse of time, with renewed energy. Ropiness is the only disorder which it is possible to effectually and permanently cure.” Wine sometimes becomes dead or flat from no ap- parently assignable cause. This can be relieved by adding new brisk Wine of the same kind; or by rousing in 21b. or 31b. of honey; or by adding 511). or 61b. of bruised Sultana raisins and 3qts. or 4qts. of brandy per hogshead. By this treatment the Wine might be expected to recover in a fortnight, if it be kept moderately warm. When it is required for use in a day or so, a little fresh yeast should be added and the cask of Wine kept in a temperature of 60deg. Fahrenheit. For information concerning modes of fining, see Clari- fying. White Wines are usually fined with isinglass, about l^oz. (dissolved in H pints of water and thinned with a little of the Wine) to the hogshead. Red Wines are fined with the whites of eggs in the proportion of 15 or 20 to the pipe. Sometimes boiled shavings of harts- horn, or pale French glue, is substituted for isinglass. Weak or vapid Wines are mostly fortified by the addition of brandy. In Portugal a very large proportion of brandy is added to port before shipping it for England, as otherwise it might probably set up an acetous fer- mentation. “ By the regulation of the Customs of England,” says Cooley, “ 10 per cent, of brandy may be added to Wines in bond, and the increased quantity is then only charged as the increased duty on Wine.” The wisdom of brandying Wine is not always evident, seeing that it interferes with the flavour, and can there- fore only be safely used with such strong-flavoured Wines as port, sherry, Malaga, &c. Even then the Wines so brandied require to stand for some time to recover their natural flavour. What is termed “ sweating in ” or “fretting in ” is frequently resorted to for the purpose of mellowing the brandied Wine. A second fermentation is set up by dissolving in a hogshead of Wine 41b. or 51b. of sugar or honey, a little yeast if necessary, and perhaps a few bruised vine-leaves. It will require refining and racking into sulplnued casks. A very important process in preparing Wines for the market is the practice of mixing, considerable art, skill, and experience being required for the purpose. We are informed by an expert that only a very few Wines are sold without being mixed. It is thought that the intoxi- cating qualities of Wine are increased, and the flavour improved, by mixing them with Wines of a different age and growth. Thus a thin port may be improved by mixing a full-bodied port or a little new Malaga with it; or a little Teneriffe, rich sherry, or some other such. An inferior old sherry would be improved by mixing with it a little full-bodied Wine of the latest vintage. Another difficulty the Wine-mixer has to contend with is the varieties required for supplying different national markets. For instance, the tastes of the majority of Englishmen differ widely from the tastes of Russians; and the tastes of Russians differ from the tastes of Germans, and so on. All these matters have to be carefully studied and provided for; but as they are not likely to enter into our dealings with Wines to anything more than a very moderate degree, further reference to it will be unnecessary. With the operations of flavouring and perfuming we have little to do, seeing that they are only practised upon Wines from other fruits in order to make them resemble grape Wines. Colouring is practised largely upon grape Wines, either before or after importation. Tincture or infusion of saffron (safflower) or turmeric is used to impart or increase a golden-sherry yellow. All shades of amber and fawn to deep brown and brandy colour are given by burnt sugar. Cochineal (either alone or with a little alum) gives a pink colour; beetroot and red sanders give a fine red; the extracts Wines—continued. of rhatany and logwood, and the juice of elderberries, bilberries, and other berries give or deepen a port-wine hue. Under the headings of Bottling and Corking full instructions are given for bottling Wines, and reference should be made to Cellaring, as important information is given as to suitable temperatures and modes of sustain- ing them. The bottles should be packed, or stacked, in bins against an inner or underground wall, damp being considered an aid to the preservation of the Wine. The best bins are those which partake of the character of racks, having a separate recess for each bottle. By this provision the bursting of a bottle does not affect all above, or lying on it, as it would if they were stacked in a pile. Several different kinds of bottle stands or bins have been invented, each having its own particular claims for con- sideration, the chief merit being the same in each case— convenience, order, and cleanliness, this latter being, according to some authorities, a very unnecessary attribute. Of all the racks for Wine bins that have been invented, the best are undoubtedly those made upon the following principles: No. 1 (see Fig. 1061) is made