773 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Whiting —continued. and stir it over the fire till the butter melts anil mixes with the flour. When cooked, lift the fish out with a slice, and put them on a hot dish. Take the onion out of tire cooking-liquor, and pour it gradually into the saucepan containing the flour and butter; stir the sauce over the fire till boiling, Jien move it to the side of the fire, stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, a few drops of mushroom ketchup, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and a small quantity of pepper and salt. The sauce should not boil after the eggs are added, but should lie stirred by the side of the fire till thick. Pour the sauce over the Whiting, garnish with parsley and quarters of lemon (see Fig. 1054), and serve. Whiting a la Colbert.—Prepare a marinade with a sliced onion, the juice of a lemon, a little parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme, and salt and pepper to taste. Clean five Whiting, wash them, and dry on a cloth ; rub them every now and then for two hours in the marinade, dip them into milk, flour them well, then dip them into breadcrumbs mixed up with a small quantity of grated Parmesan cheese. Place them in a wire frying-basket, plunge them into boiling oil, and cook till they are of a fine colour and the flesh quite firm. Take them out when done, drain them, put them on a dish, pour round a little maitre-d’hotel sauce, and serve more in a sauceboat. Whiting A la Franqaise.—Do not skin the Whiting, but wipe them over with a wet cloth; make some deep incisions along each side, using a very sharp knife for the purpose. Dip the fish in a little milk on a plate and dust them over with flour; put some lard or clarified fat in a frying pan, make it hot, then put in the fish, and fry them till crisp and lightly browned. Drain the Whiting, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of anchovy sauce. Shrimp sauce can be used in place of anchovy sauce if preferred. Whiting au Gratin.—(1) Cut the fins and head off a Whiting, empty it, wash it well, and dry thoroughly; split the Whiting and remove the bone, beginning at the head end. Chop five or six mushrooms, half a shallot, and a few sprigs of parsley; mix them together, then add the grated rind of half a lemon and a small quantity of pepper and salt. Butter a baking-dish, cover the bottom with half of the chopped herbs, put in the Whiting, and sprinkle the remainder of the herbs over it; cover with breadcrumbs that have been browned in a little butter, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and bake for about ten minutes in a quick oven. When cooked, turn the gratin carefully on to a hot dish (see Fig. 1055), pour \ teacupful of brown stock round it, and serve. (2) Scale and empty the Whiting, wash them well, and wipe them on a cloth. Coat the bottom of a baking-disli with butter, and sprinkle in some finely-chopped mushrooms and parsley; put in the Whiting, cover them with finely - grated breadcrumb, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Sprinkle some more finely-chopped mush- Whiting —continued. rooms and parsley over them ; and finely-chopped shallots may be added if cared for. Put two or three lumps of butter in the dish, pour in 2 wineglassfuls of white wine, place it in a brisk oven, and bake from fifteen to twenty minutes. When cooked, squeeze some lemon-juice over the fish, and serve them. They will not require any other kind of sauce. As the gratin has to be served in the same dish it is cooked in, it is well to use a silver one if possible. (3) Thickly butter the interior of a baking-dish, and strew over the bottom a layer of finely minced shallots, mushrooms, and parsley, also some baked and finely-sifted breadcrumbs; season with salt and pepper. Split the Whiting open and lay them on the seasoning; cover with an equal quantity of the same ingredients, putting the breadcrumbs on the top, moisten to height with 2 wine- glassfuls of white wine and stock, being very careful in pouring the liquor in not to wash the crumbs off’ the top. Bake the fish in a good oven for twenty minutes. When cooked, turn them with the seasoning on to a hot dish, and serve. Whiting a la Hollandaise.—Clean and wash the required number of Whiting, but do not skin them; rub them well with salt and pepper, and leave them for au hour. Put the Whiting in a fish kettle of boiling water, add 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and keep the water boiling gently for ten minutes. Put 1 table spoonful of flour into a saucepan, mix it till smooth with a small quantity of cold water, then pour in 4 pint of boiling water and stir it over the fire till thick. Put in the sauce 2oz. of butter broken into small pieces, 1 pinch of salt, and the juice of half a lemon. When the butter has dissolved and well mixed, move the sauce to the side of the fire and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs. When the fish is cooked, drain it carefully, put it on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve while very hot, with the sauce in a sauceboat. Whiting a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Prepare and stuff five Whiting as for Boiled Whiting aux Fines Hekbes; put them into a fish-kettle, pour over Soz. of warmed butter, and add 3 table-spoonfuls of finely chopped parsley, the strained juice of two lemons, and a good seasoning of salt and pepper. Put the kettle on the fire with hot ashes on the lid, and simmer the contents for twenty-five minutes; then take them out if done, put them on a dish, pour over maitre d’hotel sauce, and serve with a garnish of boiled potatoes cut into shapes. Whiting Cakes or Pain.—Put lib. of Whiting-flesh with out skin or bones into a mortar and pound it, then pass it through a fine hair sieve into a basin. Prepare lOoz. of rice-flour panada, pound it in the mortar, then mix in gradually the pounded Whiting-flesh and lOoz. of butter. Season the mixture with salt and pepper, and stir in the beaten yolks of four eggs. Butter a border-mould, fill it with the above mixture, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three- parts the heightof the mould, and let it simmer till the forcemeat has set. Put the bones and trimmings of the fish into a saucepan with some trimmings of mushrooms and 2 wineglassfuls of white wine ; let it simmer for fifteen minutes, then skim the extract, and strain it into another stewpan ; stir in gradually 1 pint of veloute sauce, and boil it till somewhat reduced. Mould some quenelles with the forcemeat left over from the pain, and poach them in salted water. Prepare as for garnish some button mushrooms, soft roes of carp, some picked crayfish tails, and five or six whole truffles. When the pain is cooked, turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish, and fill the centre with the articles prepared for garnish. Mix a small piece of cray- fish butter and an equal quantity of plain butter in with the sauce, and stir it till it has dissolved. Pour the sauce over the border of forcemeat, and serve. Whiting Croquettes a la Soubise. -Put 41b. of Whiting- flesh, cleaned and separated from the bones and skin, into a mortar, and pound it with 41 b. each of panada and butter; season the mixture with salt and pepper, bind it with the beaten yolks of three eggs, and pass it through a fine hair