718 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Ordinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. V eal—continued. then stir them to a paste with the beaten yolks of two eggs. Shape the paste into small halls, and fry them. When the rolled Veal cutlets or olives are fried, put them in a stewpan with an anchovy, a small quantity of pepper, a blade of mace, and sufficient good gravy to nearly cover them; put in the forcemeat balls also, and let all boil gently till the Veal is done. Take the Veal and 'the forcemeat balls out, strain the gravy, and thicken it with butter and flour. Lay the olives on a hot dish, cut the string and remove it, lay the forcemeat balls round the oli 'es, pour the gravy over, and serve hot. (7) Trim off the fat from Hlb. of Veal, cut it into thin strips about 3in. wide and 4in. long, and season them with salt and pepper. Mix with 3 table-spoonfuls of cracker-crumbs 4 teaspoonful of savory, 1 pinch of sage, a little salt and pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls of butter, and 1 table-spoonful of water. Spread the above mixture on the strips of Veal, roll them up, and tie them round with twine. Dip the olives in flour and fry them till brown in some pork-fat, then put them in a small sauce- pan. Put 1 table spoonful of flour in the pan, with the remainder of the fat that the olives were fried in, and stir it over the fire till smooth and brown ; then pour in gradually a little over 1 J pints of boiling water, season to taste with pepper and salt, and stir it two or three minutes longer. Pour the liquor into the saucepan over the olives, and keep them simmering by the side of the fire for two hours. When cooked, take the olives out of the gravy, cut the strings, put them on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve. (8) Prepare a small quantity of Veal forcemeat. Cut some slices < ft' a fillet of Veal, trim them, spread a layer of the forcemeat on each, sprinkle over them some finely- chopped oysters, and roll them up. Fasten the olives with small skewers, put them in a Dutch oven, and roast them in front of a clear fire, basting them occasionally with butter. Prepare a ragout with a sweetbread and some mushrooms and oysters, and turn it into the middle of a hot dish. When nicely browned, put the olives round the ragout, pour some rich gravy over them, and serve. Veal Olive Pie.—Dip some thin slices of Veal in beaten yolk of egg. Mix some grated lemon peel with some bread- crumbs, season them with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and roll the slices of Veal in them. Roll the pieces of Veal up like olives, put them in a pie-dish, pour in about f pint of rich gravy, put in two or three small pieces of butter, line the edges of the pie-dish with a strip of puff paste, and cover the top with puff paste. Brush the pie over with beaten yolk of egg, and bake it for about an hour and a half in a moderate oven. When cooked, serve either hot or cold. Veal Omelet Faupiettes.— (1) Chop very finely some remains of cold Veal, dredge it over with flour, and season it with grated lemon peel, nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and a moderate quantity of lemon pickle. Put the mince into a stewpan with loz. or a little more of butter, moisten it with clear Veal gravy, and stir it over the fire until hot. Prepare a good omelet hatter, and season it moderately with salt and grated nutmeg. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and when it boils pour in a thin layer of the batter and fry it; fry the remainder of the batter in the same way, but always be sure that the butter is boiling befoie putting in the batter. Put about 2 table-spoonfuls of the Veal mixture in each and fold them over; cut them into lengths, place them side by side in a frying-basket, put this into a stewpan of boiling lard, and fry until well browned. Drain the paupiettes for a minute on a sheet of kitchen-paper, then arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a fancy dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 966), and serve. (2) German.—Put a little more than 1 teacupful of flour into a basin, season it with a little salt and pounded mace, and stir in gradually, keeping it quite smooth, six well-beaten eggs and f pint of milk ; then strain the mix- ture through a fine hair sieve. Put a lump of butter in a large frying-pan and melt it; then pour in a little of the batter at a time, keeping it as tbin as possible. As each omelet is cooked, turn it out, cut it square, and let it cool. Cut the meat off a cooked fillet of Veal into small pieces, put them in a mortar, and pound them. Chop and pound ill), of ham. Fry six chickens’ livers in butter, then chop and pound them. Mix all the above together. Stir the beaten yolks of two eggs and the white of one in with the pounded meat, then pass the mixture through a sieve. Spread the mixture over the omelets, divide them into strips 4in. long and lin. wide, and roll them up. Butter a saute-pan, and lay the paupietttes in it, side by side. Pour a little clarified butter over them, cover them with finely-grated breadcrumb, and bake them in a moderate oven for a-quarter of-an hour. When cooked, take the paupiettes out, put them on an orna- mental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Veal-and-Qyster Pie.—(1) Cut lib. of neck of Veal into small pieces, put them in a saucepan, cover them with water, and stew them for an hour. Cut 2oz. of pork into small pieces, put them in with the Veal, and add one chopped onion, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 table-spoon- ful of thickening, salt and pepper, and 1 teacupful of milk. Cook the mixture for twenty minutes longer, then turn it into a shallow dish, put a breakfast-cupful of oysters over the top, dredge in some pepper, salt, and flour, and cover the pie with a common pie-crust. Bake the pie for about half an-hour, and serve it either hot or cold. (2) Cut about Hlb. of Veal into small squares, put a layer of minced ham on each, season them with grated lemon-peel, pepper, and salt, and roll them up. Butter the edge of a pie-dish and line it with puff paste, put in a layer of the rolls, cover them with oysters, put in more rolls of Veal, which cover with oysters, and so on till the dish is full. Put 1 teacupful of gravy in a saucepan with the liquor of the oysters and the grated peel of half a lemon, and stir it over the fire till boiling ; then pour it over the pie, and season with pepper and salt. Cover the pie with a flat of putt' paste, moistening it and trimming it off at the edges, and making a small hole in the top. Ornament the pie according to fancy, brush it over with beaten yolk of egg, and bake it for about one- hour and a half in a moderate oven. When cooked, pour some gravy in the pie through the hole in the top, and serve either hot or cold. Veal-and-Parsley Pie. -Cut some steaks from a neck or leg of Veal. Put at the bottom of a pie dish a layer of chopped boiled parsley, over this a layer if Veal, then parsley again, and continue adding alternate layers of chopped boiled parsley and s ices of Veal till the dish is full. Put in as much good well-seasoned stock as the dish will hold without being tilled to the brim. Lay a narrow strip of puff paste or short-crust on the edge of the dish to cover it, put a cover of puff paste or short crust over the pie, moisten the edges slightly, press them lightly together, and trim them. Bake in a moderately hot oven. Veal Patties.—(1) Mince 341b. cf leg of Veal and Jib. of salt pork. Roll half-a-dozen soda crackers, anil sift them. Mix with the minced meat 1 table-spoonful each of salt and black pepper, one grated nutmeg, and two well beaten eggs. Mould the mixture into small oval shapes, put them in a baking dish, sprinkle the cracker-crumbs over the top, put a few small pieces of butter over them, and pour in 4 teacupful of water. Bake the patties in a quick oven, basting them frequently. When cooked, put the