m TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. V eal—continued. and place in the oven to brown. Put a little parsley round for garnish, and serve hot. Baked Veal Cutlets with. Sweet Herbs.—Put some chopped mushrooms, sweet herbs, winter savory, and shallots, with lloz. of butter and some salt and pepper, into a stewpan, and stir them over the fire until well mixed and hot. Trim the cutlets nicely, spread over them some of the mixture, brush over with beaten egg, and coat them with grated breadcrumb. Lay the cutlets on a baking-dish and bake them. Pour 1 breakfast- cupful of white wine and a small quantity of cullis into the saucepan with the remainder of the herbs, and boil them; skim the sauce. When cooked, lay the cutlets on a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. Blanquette of Veal.—(1) Cut about 31b. of breast of Veal into small squares, put them in a saucepan, season with a little salt and pepper, cover with water, and put them over the fire till boiling. Skim the fat off the liquor, and put in two onions stuck with three cloves and a large bunch of sweet herbs. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently till the Veal is tender. When cooked, drain the meat, and put it in another saucepan. Put loz. each of butter and flour into a large stewpan, stir them over the fire till well mixed, then pour in the cooking-liquor of the Veal, and boil for twenty minutes, stirring all the time. Thicken the liquor with a liaison of three yolks of eggs, then strain it through a pointed strainer into the saucepan with the Veal. Warm the Veal up again without boil- ing, then turn the blanquette on to a hot dish, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over it, and serve. (2) Take a slice of Veal weighing about 31b., roast it, and when cold cut it up into thin round collops about 1 tin. in diameter; put these into a stewpan with 14 pints of good white sauce, some button-mushrooms and trufHes cut up in slices, also some thin slices of tongue about half the size of the collops of Veal; next pick out the best of the trimmings of the Veal and chop them up very fine, put them into a stewpan with trimmings of truffles, tongue, and mushrooms, also chopped fine, add 1 gill of white sauce, a little chicken glaze, and six yolks of eggs; season well with cayenne pepper and salt. Bring to the boil, and pour out on a dish to get set; when cold, proceed as in the usual way for croquettes. Next make the blanquette of Veal hot, and see that it is properly seasoned ; dish the Veal up on a small border of mashed potatoes, put the ragout in the centre, pour the sauce over, put the croquettes round the base, and serve. (3) Blanch a breast of Veal, put it in a stewpan with an onion stuck with three or four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few small pieces of lemon-peel, a blade of mace, and a little under Jib. of butter ; put the saucepan over a gentle fire for a few minutes, then pour in sufficient hot water to moisten the Veal to height, and stew it gently until nearly cooked. Take the Veal out of the saucepan, and cut out the long bones. Strain the cooking-liquor, and return it with the Veal to the sauce- pan ; stew it until quite tender, then put in one dozen oysters that have been blanched in their own liquor. Stir in with the blanquette a small lump of butter and flour that have been kneaded together, and 4 teacupful of cream. When the blanquette is thickened, move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, and stir in the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten and strained with the juice of half a lemon. Turn the blanquette on to a hot dish, garnish it with fried oysters, and serve immediately with cut lemons. (4) Cut into 2in. square pieces 241b. of breast of Veal. Soak it in fresh water for an hour, drain it well, lay it in a saucepan, cover with fresh water, and boil, being- very careful to skim off the scum. Add a bouquet garni, six small well-peeled white onions, 2 good pinches of salt, and ] pinch of white pepper. Cook for forty minutes. Melt about 1 l2oz. of butter in another saucepan, add to it 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir well for three minutes, moisten with 1 pint of broth from the Veal, boil for five minutes, and set it at the side of the stove. Beat up in a bowl the yolks of three eggs together with the juice of a V eal—continued. medium-sized lemon and a very little grated nutmeg. Take the preparation in the saucepan, gradually add it to the egg mixture, and mix briskly with a wooden spoon until all is added. Pour this over the Veal, and lightly toss the whole over the fire for a few minutes, but be careful not to allow it to boil again. It is then ready to be served. (5) Cut about 31b. of breast of Veal into pieces lin. long, put them in a saucepan with two or three carrots and onions, a head of celery cut into small pieces, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and two bay-leaves tied together, a few cloves, salt and pepper to taste, and sufficient water to cover the meat. Boil gently at the side of the fire until the meat is tender, then take it out, and strain the liquor through a fine sieve. Put loz. of butter and 1 heaped table spoonful of flour in a stewpan, mix them over the fire, then stir in gradually as much of the strained liquor well freed from fat as will make the required quantity of sauce. Stir it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side, and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, the strained juice of half a lemon, 4- table-spoonful of minced parsley, and a few mushrooms Put the pieces of Veal on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. Blanquette of Veal a l’Ancienne.—The same as for Blanquette op Veal, adding loz of salt pork cut into small pieces, and cooked with the meat from the commence- ment, and six sliced mushrooms, two minutes before serving. Blanquette of Veal in a Croustade.—Cut a cold roasted fillet of Veal into collops 14in. long, 4in. broad, and Jin. in thickness. Put the Veal in a saucepan with a quarter the quantity of sliced mushrooms and some German Fig. 933. Blanquette of Veal in a Croustade. sauce, and heat them over the fire. Prepare a paste croustade 2in. high and the same size as the dish on which it is to be served; fix the croustade in the dish, turn the blanquette into it (see Fig. 933), and serve. Blanquette of Veal with Cucumbers.—Cut a cold roast, loin of Veal into collops, and put them into some blanquette sauce. Cut six cucumbers into quarters, and trim them to the same size as the pieces of meat. Chop the trimmings of the cucumbers with an onion, put them in a stewpan with a little butter, and fry; then pour in 4 pint of sauce tournee, and stew them by the side of the fire for an hour. Skim the fat off' the sauce, and rub it through a fine hair sieve. Put the cucumbers in some sauce tournee, and boil gently till tender; then put them in a basin with a few drops of white vinegar, pepper, and salt, and leave for an hour. Drain the cucumbers on a wire sieve, put the sauce in which they were cooked in a saucepan with the puree of cucumbers and onion, and boil till reduced. W hen some- what reduced, move the sauce to the side of the fire, and stir in the yolks of two eggs that have been well beaten and 4 teacupful of thick cream. Stir the sauce by the side of the fire till thick, but do not let it boil after the eggs are added. Put the meat and cucumbers in the sauce and make them hot, season with salt and sugar, turn the blanquette on to a hot dish, and serve it. Blanquette of Veal and Ham.—Cut 14-lb. of cooked Veal into small pieces, and mix with it 4lb. of cooked ham also cut into pieces. Put the meat in a saucepan with 1 pint of cream sauce, 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, a small quantity of pepper and salt, and boil it. V hen boiling,