G98 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal —continued. garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. Mireton of Veal.—(1) Finely chop some cold roasted Veal, mix with it ill), of ham also very finely chopped, and season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Soak the crumb of a French roll in 1 teacupful of milk. Slice a small onion, and fry it till nicely browned in a little butter; then drain it and mince finely. Put the above ingredients in a saucepan with the grated peel of half a lemon and 1 teacupful of cream, and stir it over the lire till thoroughly hot. Beat an egg well, add it to the above mixture, then move the saucepan off the fire. Butter a mould, turn the mixture into it, and press down tightly ; put the mould in the oven, and brown the contents. When cooked, turn the mireton on to a hot dish, pour some rich gravy over it, and serve. (2) Chop very fine about fib. of cold boiled or roasted Veal, and fib. of tongue, ham, or bacon. Mix with it about 3oz. of crumb of bread soaked in milk, and a well- beaten egg; stir in also an onion chopped fine and fried a light brown, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Place the mixture over the fire in a saucepan, and stew it a little; when thoroughly hot, put it in a buttered mould or basin, bake till the top is brown, then turn it out on to a hot dish; pour over some cullis or brown gravy, and serve hot. Montglas of Veal.—Cut Alb. of cold roasted Veal into pieces about lin. long, put them into a basin with fib. of boiled calf’s feet cut into small pieces, an equal quantity of pickled ox-tongue, and the same quantity each of chopped cooked mushrooms and gherkins. Pour some salad-oil and vinegar over the above ingredients, season them with salt, pepper, and mustard, mix well together, and let them macerate for an hour. Put the meat, &c., on a fancy dish, thicken the marinade with 1 teacupful of mayonnaise sauce, sprinkle in some chopped parsley and chives, pour it over the meat, garnish with aspic jelly, and serve. Montglas of Veal with. Crohtons.—Trim off all the sinewy parts of a cooked minion fillet of Veal, cut it into slices about fin. thick, then cut them into small squares. Put the Veal into a saucepan with half its quantity of cooked pickled ox-tongue and mushrooms also cut into small pieces. Pour J pint of brown sauce and 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine over the above ingredients, season with a little cayenne pepper, and keep over the fire till on the point of boiling, then move to the side. Turn the montglas on to a hot dish, garnish with glazed croutons of fried bread, and serve. Heck of Veal d la Bruxellaise.—Cut off the chine-bones of a neck of Veal, and trim it to a nice shape. Peel and slice three onions, two carrots, two turnips, and one leek ; cut a few sticks of celery into small pieces, lay the Veal on a dish with four bay-leaves and a few sprigs of thyme and parsley, cover with the vegetables, and moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of salad-oil. Let it marinade for a few hours, place the vegetables on sheets of paper, four sheets in thickness, lay the Veal on the top, and wrap the paper well round, being careful to secure it tightly or the vegetables will escape. Boast it in front of a clear fire. Twenty minutes before the Veal is done, remove the paper and vegetables, and brown it. Trim and wash 31b. or 41b. of Brussels sprouts, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil; do not over-cook the sprouts, but when just tender turn them on to a sieve to drain thoroughly. Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan, melt it, then put in the sprouts; squeeze the juice of half a lemon over them, season with salt and pepper and about J teaspoonful of sugar, and toss them about gently over the fire until nicely glazed with the butter. Turn the sprouts on to a hot dish, and stand the Veal on them; pour a little thin white sauce over the Veal, and serve. Heck of Veal a la Milanaise.—Trim and lard a neck of Veal; butter a stewpan, line it with slices of bacon, put in the Veal with a carrot, turnip, and two small onions, each stuck with two cloves; add a bunch of sweet herbs, and moisten with 2 pints of white stock and J pint of I Veal—continued. bucellas wine. Boil the Veal quickly for fifteen minutes, then skim the liquor, put the cover on the stewpan, and place it in a moderate oven. Baste the meat occasionally with its cooking-liquor. Blanch Jib. of macaroni and seven or eight large mushrooms, and cut them into small pieces; cut into pieces the same size, six French truffles and 2oz. of cooked tongue. Pour 2J breakfast-cupfuls of white sauce into a stewpan, stir it over the fire until boiling, then put in the prepared ingredients and boil them gently. Season the sauce to taste with salt and a small quantity each of cayenne pepper and sugar. Add Jib. of grated Parmesan cheese and 1 teacupful of cream, and stir at the edge of the fire until the cheese has melted. Turn the sauce on to a hot dish, place the Veal on it, glaze it, and serve. Neck of Veal a la Mirepoix.—Put some rasped bacon, {1 b. of chopped ham, three bay-leaves, a sprig or two of thyme, and a lump of butter in a stewpan; dust in a little pepper and salt, and fry them over a slow fire. Cut some neck of Veal into small pieces, trim them, put them in the stewpan with the other ingredients, and fry; when fried, leave the mirepoix till cold. Butter a sheet of white paper, cover with thin layers of bacon, put the mirepoix on it, and wrap in several sheets of paper. Bake the mirepoix for an-hour-and-a-half in a moderate oven. When cooked, take the mirepoix out of the paper, put it on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of Spanish sauce. Neck of Veal a la Rouennaise.—Cut off the skin and chine-bones of a neck of Veal, and lard it. Melt a lump of butter in a stewpan, line it with thin slices of fat bacon, put in the Veal, the larded side upwards, together with one large onion with three or four cloves stuck in it, one turnip, one carrot, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Cover the Veal with stock and J pint of bucellas wine, place the stewpan over the fire, and boil the contents for a-quarter-of-an-hour, then put it into a rather slow oven and leave it until the Veal is tender. Baste the Veal occasionally while in the oven with its own cooking- liquor. Put J teacupful of salad-oil in a stewpan and place it over the fire; when hot, put in two or three chopped shallots and mushrooms and 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley. Stir them over the fire for eight or ten minutes, drain off the oil, dredge a small quantity of Hour over them, and mix in gradually a little over 1 pint of white sauce. Continue stirring it over the fire, and boil for a few minutes; then move it to the side, stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of sugar. Put the Veal on a hot dish, the larded side upwards, pour the sauce over it, strew grated breadcrumb on the top, and brown it under a salamander. Pour a shallot sauce round the dish, and serve. Neck of Veal 4 la St. Clair.—Boast a nicely-trimmed best end of a neck of Veal in vegetables; when nearly cooked, remove the paper and vegetables, and brown it lightly. Peel and boil a sufficient quantity of potatoes, mash them with butter, and press them into a border mould; stand the mould in a bain-marie to keep hot. Make about 1 pint of thin tomato sauce, and mix with it J table-spoonful of anchovy butter. Cut a dozen slices of bacon into heart-shaped pieces, and fry them. Place the Veal on a hot dish, garnish with the slices of bacon, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Neck of Veal with Puree of Celery.—Trim the best end of a neck of Veal, cutting off the chine-bones; peel and cut into thin slices three large onions, two large turnips, and two carrots; cut two or three sticks of celery into small lengths, and slice one leek. Moisten the vegetables with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, and mix with them a few sprigs of thyme and parsley and four bay- leaves. Bun a lark-spit lengthwise through the Veal; lay all the vegetables on paper five or six sheets thick, lay the Veal on it, and wrap the paper round, tying it securely to keep the vegetables in. Fix the Veal in front of a clear fire and roast it, keeping it well basted. Have ready boiled two pieces of bacon of equal length and about 2Jin. wide, and glaze them; when the Veal is