791 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, lie., referred to, see under their special heads. Wines—continued. Wine Soup with Lemon and Trench Rolls.—Put two French rolls in a saucepan with the thinly-pared rind and the juice of one lemon, pour in water to cover, and boil to a thin paste. Pass the mixture through a fine wire sieve, return it to the saucepan, pour in lqt. of white Wine, season to taste with sugar and a small quantity of salt, and stir over the fire until boiling. Beat the yolks of three eggs in a soup-tureen, then pour the boiling Wine over them, stirring at the same time, and serve. Wine Whey.—(1) Put 1 pint of milk into a small lined saucepan, place it over the fire until boiling, then put in 2 wineglassfuls of port Wine and 1 table-spoonful of caster or loaf sugar. Stir the whey until the sugar has dis- solved, then strain it through a piece of muslin into a jug. Grate a small quantity of nutmeg over the whey, and serve while very hot. (2) Put 1 pint of skimmed milk into a basin with | pint of white Wine, pour in gradually 1 pint of boiling water, and let them stand a short time until the curd falls in a lump to the bottom. Next pour off the whey into a china bowl, sweeten it to taste with lemon-flavoured sugar, put a small sprig of balm on the top, .and serve with sweet biscuits. (3) Pour 1 pint of new milk into a saucepan, let it boil, add 3 wineglassfuls of sherry or raisin Wine, boil up again, and then remove from the fire. Let them stand until the curd forms, remove this, strain the whey, and sweeten to taste with sugar. It is then ready for use, and if required for an invalid it can either be weakened by adding hot water, or it may be boiled for five minutes longer before being served. (4) Put 1 pint of milk in a lined saucepan over the fire, and when boiling pour in a sufficient quantity of white Wine to curdle it. Boil up once, then let it settle, strain off the whey, sweeten to taste with boiling syrup, and serve in punch glasses. WINE BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. WINES, AMERICAN.—See American Wines WINES AND LIQUEUR GLASSES.—Some idea of the enormous variety of elegant patterns and chaste designs in which these important vessels are made can be gained by referring to the Plate of Drinking Glasses. They form an essential part of the table- service, being both useful and ornamental. For information as to arrangement and special application, see Table-service. WINKLES.—See Periwinkles. WINTER SALAD.—Nee Salads. WONDERS.—See Jersey Wonders. WOOD.—The use of Wood for the manufacture of culinary apparatus was at one time highly esteemed. It was not readily broken, and was easily cleaned. Ad- vancement in the science and art of cooking has taught us that metal and glass, or earthenware, are greatly to be preferred, especially for those articles which come into contact with moist or soft foods. Wooden paste-boards are now superseded by slate or marble. Wooden rollers are replaced by glass or brass ; wooden spoons give way to silver, and wooden bowls and pestles and mortars are almost things of the past. Even the tables are now more often iron-topped than wooden; and this trans- formation is increasing so rapidly that it has been pre- dicted that in course of time Wood will be almost un- known in the kitchen even for lighting fires, the ordinary fuel stoves being superseded by gas or electricity. Cement or stone flooring is coming into use in large kitchens, and the dangerous absorbing properties of the cellular Wood substance are gradually being recognised by modern caterers. The day is not far distant, let us hope, when wooden utensils will be no more known—for handles and similar purposes the non-heat-conducting properties of Wood stand in good stead; but bone, or ivory, or cellulose will be better. W ood—continued. As fuel or kindling Wood will be necessary until Wood, coke, coal, and charcoal fires are no longer used, where Wood is employed there should always be a goodly supply chopped up, and thoroughly dried, ready for immediate use. WOODCOCKS (Fr. Becasses ; Ger. Sclinepfen; Ital. Beccaccie; Sp. Choclias).—This bird of passage arrives in England about the middle of September, and its advent is eagerly looked for, its stay being short and fleeting. By gourmets, its flesh is regarded almost “ in the light of a poem,” in proof of which every morsel of it, including head and tail, is considered choice and eatable. Some persons, however, are of opinion that there is scarcely enough of it for so delicious a morsel; in consequence of this opinion, an epicurean poet has written: If partridge had the woodcock’s thighs, ’Twould be the noblest bird that flies ; If woodcock had the partridge breast, ’Twould be the best bird ever drest. The Woodcock (Scolopax rusticola) is a bird of the snipe variety, having a long beak, which some cooks fancifully use for the purpose of trussing it. The flesh is dark, and when in good condition very delicate, especially when the bird has been hung sufficiently long to assume a game flavour. To tell if a Woodcock has been hung long enough for cooking, it should be lifted by one of the tail feathers, when, if sufficiently mature, the body will detach itself from the feathers by its own weight. To prepare a Woodcock for cooking, it should be carefully plucked feather by feather, the head and neck skinned, and the inside or trail left untouched. The thighs should then be fixed close to the body, and the beak brought down under the wing, or it may be passed through the body, or made to transfix the thighs (see Fig. 1075). Another method of trussing adopted in some Continental kitchens is to tuck the head under the skin of the breast (see Fig. 1076), leaving the beak protruding. There are three varieties of Woodcock known to the game-seller, called respectively the large, the middle-sized, and the small; the largest is about the size of a partridge, not so heavy, with brown plumage, tinted with black and grey, and black stripes; the middle size is of a chestnut colour, equally striped with black and grey, the belly being spotted with black on a brown ground; and the smallest has a plumage that is almost exclusively reddish- brown or russet.