787 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Wines—continued. “ Briefly, the rule, by general gastronomic consent, for those who indulge in the luxury of Wine, is to offer a glass of light pale sherry or dry Sauterne after soup ; a delicate Rhine Wine, if required, after fish; a glass of good Bordeaux with the joint of mutton; the same of champagne—dry, but with some true vinous character in it, and not the tasteless spirit and water now enjoying an evanescent popularity as absolute ‘ brut ’—during the entrees; the best red Wine in the cellar, Bordeaux or Burgundy, with the grouse or other roast game; and. but this ought to suffice, even for that exceptional individual who is supposed to be little if at all injured by ‘ moderate ’ potations. With the ice or dessert, a glass of full-flavoured but matured champagne, or a liqueur, may be served; but at this point dietetic admonitions are out of place, and we have already sacrificed to luxury. But it is not to be forgotten that both temperance and digestion are favoured by the habit of avoiding much mixing of red and white, or indeed of any Wines at our meals. Men have discovered for themselves that choice champagne and claret, however delightful each may prove itself in passing over the palate, often quarrel sadly when they arrive in the stomach below. Hence the somewhat modern, and certainly prudent course, which many now follow, viz., to drink either the one or the other Wine throughout the dinner, and to limit himself to that only. And this makes it necessary to supply, as before intimated, the best produce of the cellar during the whole course of the dinner, instead of reserving it, as in days of yore, for consumption afterwards.” In the foregoing extensive quotation may be found most tersely expressed the whole rationale of Wine-drinking. To this it is not necessary to add much, excepting in the way of confirmation or modification according to the opinions of others who are doubtless as fully entitled to acceptance as the previous writer. According to the decree of a French epicure, white Wines should always follow the red, except in a French dinner, which is usually preceded by oysters. “ In this case, the ostreal delicacies should be saluted with a treble volley of Chablis ; or, for greater solemnity, with libations of Pouilly or Mont Rachet; or even with Sauterne, Barsac, or White Hermitage. But for this important reason, red Wine should open the repast. “ Our French exemplars assert the most proper Wine during the first course to be, without any contradiction, Burgundy of the least celebrated growth, and which, for this reason, is known as low Burgundy. Such are Aloxe, Avallon, Coulange, Torniere, and generally all those known under the designation of Macon and Auxerre. You then ascend to Baume and Pomard; and if you choose to confine yourself to the Burgundian topography, you have the generous Richebourg, the high-flavoured St. George, the purple Chambertin, and the exquisite Romanee. But if you can ill bear the trammels of classi- fication, and wish to give a fillip to your taste by change of flavour and soil, champagne offers its sparkling Ai, perfumed Cumiere, and limpid Sillery. After these, you may enjoy the stronger Wines of Dauphiny, which whet the appetite and heighten the savour of the roasts. Among these we recommend Chateau Grille, Cote Rotie, and Hermitage. 'Tis then that mirth lights up the faces of the convivial circle, and the gibes and gambols of wit are wont ‘ to set the table in a roar ’; ’tis then that we acknowledge the claim of only one other Wine to produce on the quantity already imbibed an effect similar to that of a drop of water in boiling milk, or a wine of Bordeaux, or claret. See how Wisdom’s art gradually appeases the mounting spirits, in the effect of Medoc poured by a steady hand into bright crystal, which reflects scores of wax lights. An armistice ensues, and the ‘ intellectual gladiators ’ lay down then- wordy weapons. Amphitryons clear the table ; wafers and sweet For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Wines—continued. cakes and perfumed creams usurp the place of legumes, which boasted all the skill of scientific cookery. Languedoc, Rousillon, and Provence, what brilliant associations do ye create ! Spain, too, participates in this gale of glory ! But what is that ruby tint which glows amidst sparkling crystal P—what is that liquid topaz which strikes the eye with wonder, and inspires a new gusto ? Rivesalter, Grenach, Lunel, Malmsey, Fron- tignan, Malaga, and Xeres—what a galaxy of glories rises with your delicious aroma to perplex Wine-drinkers. Your half-consumed corks give evidence of your age, like a wreck of hoar antiquity; the perfumed gale ascends, and your richness mantles and sparkles high; whilst your glowing spirit tempers the effect of ice, which is sometimes injudiciously served immediately after dinner; although health and good taste concur in delay- ing its appearance.” We have here two decided opinions and views on Wine- drinking and its service ; the one permeated by doubtful wisdom, the other full of Continental enthusiasm. To this we need must add a word for Tokay. Our French writer continues: “ The aromatic gale of the Mocha berry next salutes our delighted senses. Folly produces another bottle; the silver froth rushes like a boiling spring, and carries the cork to the ceiling; or the Arbois is produced, and unites the sweetness of Condrieux with the sparkling of the impetuous Ai! ’Tis then only that the Wine- drinker can enjoy in diamond glasses the exquisiteness of veritable Tokay.” A more strictly practical writer classifies the order of serving Wines rather more in accordance with the customs prevailing in this country. He gives them thus : •' Immediately after the soup dry white Wines are offered, such as French Wines, Marsala, Sherry, Madeira, dry Syracuse, &c. With the fish dry white Wines are also served. With oysters Chablis is preferred. With releves of butchers’ meat and warm entrees, red Wines, Burgundy or Bordeaux. With cold entrees and other cold pieces, fine white Wines are served. With the roast come the fine Bordeaux or champagne Wines, or both. With the entremets, champagne alone. With the dessert, liqueur Wines, such as Frontignan, Lunel, Alicante, Malvesie, Port, Tokay, Lacrima, Cloriste, &c.” In concluding this exhaustive article, and to conciliate varied opinions, the words of a French gourmet are here reproduced. He writes : “ Some persons prefer Burgundy, others contend for Bordeaux, a few pretend that cham- pagne, still and of the first quality, unites the Burgun- dian flavour with the Bordeaux warmth ; while the natives of the borders of the Rhone assert that the finest of all Wines is Hermitage ! All are right, and each in its turn is best, especially if the maturation of the fruit has been successful; this is rare, for there is a greater difference between the Wine of one year and that of another, grown in the same vineyard, than between the Wine of a cele- brated district and that procured from an obscure spot. Therefore, we should take the advice of Sterne, and, like the man at the fair, every one speak as he has found his market in it. According as we have drunk Sillery, La Romanee, or Medoc of memorable years, we ought to prefer the districts which produced them respectively ; always with this prudent restriction—not to be so exclusive in our taste, as not to welcome others in the absence of better.” Mulled Wine.—(1) Sweeten Iqt. of fresh milk with caster sugar to taste, then boil it with a stick of cinnamon and one grated nutmeg for five minutes; take the milk off the fire and leave it till cool. Beat the yolks of six eggs with h teacupful of thick cream. Mix a bottle of Wine with the eggs and milk, strain the mixture several times Sauces, <kc>, refored to, see under their special heads.