THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 674 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Twelfth Cakes—continued. additions. Butter a baking-hoop, line it with doubled paper, and pour in the mixture to three-quarters its height; cover the top with paper to prevent the cake burning, and bake in a slow oven, but with a moderate heat, for four-hours-and-a- half. Turn it out of the hoop, and when nearly cold ice with plain sugar icing to about fin. in thickness. Then it may be decorated with ornaments. (2) Work 2ilb. of butter in a warm basin to a cream with the hand, and then rub it into 7lb. of flour. Have ready 71b. of washed and dried currants, 2 large nutmegs finely grated, |oz. of mace and foz. of cloves (the mace and cloves finely pounded in a mortar or ground), lib. of caster sugar, the yolks of sixteen eggs and the whites of twelve whisked separately, and 1-i pints of fresh yeast. Then mix all up, using only sufficient cream to moisten the mixture, and add as much sweet wine (malmsey) as will make it into a light batter. Blanch lib. of sweet almonds, and pound them in a mortar with a little orange- flower water and a little of the wine. Beat this into the previous mixture, and add 111), of candied lemon-peel and the same of orange-peel and citron cut into very fine slices. Beat all the mixture well together, and then pour it into a baking-hoop with a thick layer of paste round it made of flour and water, to prevent it burning. When done, which will be in about four-hours-and-a-half, take it out, and when it is nearly cold ice it, anti cover with decorations. (3) Well wash and dry 31b. of currants, then stone 4oz. of raisins, and put them all into \ peck of well-dried and sifted flour; add Jib. of powdered loaf sugar, 2oz. of candied orange-peel, and the same of lemon-peel chopped up finely, 4oz. of sweet and |oz. of bitter almonds blanched and pounded in a mortar; then, lastly, add mixed spice to taste, and mix all well together. Take fib. of butter, beat it up in 1 pint of warmed cream, and put in a warm place for a little while before adding to the other ingredients. Beat the yolks of twelve and the whites of six eggs up separately, and put them into a basin, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of cardamom brandy, h wine- glassful of champagne or hock, a little rose-water, \ pint of dissolved yeast, and a little salt; mix all these together, and pour them through a sieve into the dry ingredients, which should be made a little warm before the fire. Mix them to a smooth light paste, and put it to rise before the fire. Then butter a baking-hoop, and pour in the mixture, adding more flour if necessary to make it stiff. Place under the hoop pieces of whitey-brown paper, and bake in a moderate oven for nearly two hours. When done, let it get cold, and then ice and ornament in the usual way. TWINE.—A careful housekeeper will collect all the pieces of Twine that come into the kitchen round parcels and otherwise. For many purposes these pieces will be valuable, and nothing is more hindering to the cook when working in a hurry than to have to wait whilst Twine—continued. a piece of string is hunted for and found. A hook should be kept supplied, if possible, with Twine in all lengths and sizes, or a ball, or a roller of a useful-sized Twine should be always ready to the cook’s hand. TWISTS.—See Bread. TWOPENNY.—The name of an inferior beer brewed in the early part of the eighteenth century. UDDER (Fr. Tetine ; Ger. Euter; Ital. Tetta ; Sp. Ubre).—The bag of a heifer or cow, which contains the milk glands and in which the milk is secreted. That ol the young female calf or heifer is used in cookery for the purpose of wrapping up cromeskies; the Udder of the cow, although more plentiful, is somewhat coarser and more strongly flavoured, but is sometimes used, especially for making a stew or ragout, when tripe is unobtainable. The following is a good receipt for making this, and is highly esteemed by Europeans in India : Udder Ragout.—Parboil about 21b. of Udder. Put 3oz. of fat in a frying-pan, and warm it; cut twelve onions into slices, put them in the pan, and fry them brown ; then remove them from the pan and add 4 teaspoonfuls of ground onions, 1 tea- spoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, \ teaspoonful of ground ginger, J teaspoonful of ground garlic, and, if preferred, £ teaspoonful of ground coriander-seeds. Fry the mixture, stirring continually, until brown, add the 21b. of Udder cut up into squares, H teaspoonfuls of salt, and fry to a light brown. Turn the whole into a saucepan, add the onions, after chopping them, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and simmer gently over a slow fire for about two hours, by which time the Udder should be quite tender and the liquor thick, and only half its original quantity. Turn the preparation out on to a dish, and serve very hot, with the onions sprinkled over. UKA SOUP.—See Soups. UMBIES-See Humbles. UNICORN PLANT.—See Martinoes. UNIVERSAL SAUCE.—See Sauces. UNLEAVENED BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. UNLEAVENED BREAD.—Bread that is made without leaven of any kind. Fig. 919. Tea-urn. URNS.—The derivation of the term is uncertain; ac- cording to some authorities it takes its origin from the