891 DESCRIPTIVE INDEX TO SPECIAL PLATES. Pish Removes. A plainly-served fish is somewhat unsightly, and the chefs art is devoted to remedying the evil. By means of tact and discretion he is able to produce such picturesque dishes as are displayed in this Plate. Artistic Floral Decorations. Floral Table Decorations. Gum-paste Work (No. 1).—Military Trophy Gum-paste Work (No. 2).—Basket for Fruit. On these Plates are given designs and plans which indicate the modes of producing highly ornamental stands, vessels, &c., from gum-paste. Under that heading will be found instructions for the working of this pliant material, and descriptive text of these Plates. From the earliest days of which we have any record of the festive doings of civilisation the board has ever been graced by the jiresence of flowers, ferns, or foliage. Such decorations may vary from the simple plant in pot or gathered spray to the most elaborate and profuse arrangement or design that the art of the florist can con- trive. In these two Plates some original samples of artistic floral decorations are given which accord with the instructions given under Table-Decoration. Ornamental, Artistic, and Fanciful Arrangements of Fruits for Table or Sideboard. This Plate is worthy of considerable notice, as the expert in table decorations delights in such clever displays. Artistic Hors d’CEuvre. The service of hors d’oeuvre (see under that heading), not merely as appetisers, but as plats volants that are available at any time during the meal, is becoming more fashionable every day. The range of foods suitable is somewhat extensive, the samples shown in this Plate being of exceptional merit. Artistically-served Ices. Since the introduction into this country of the Neapolitan styles of preparing and Serving ices, the ingenuity of the confectioner lias been devoted to the subject, with the satisfactory results that some very elaborate ices have found their way to high-class tables. This Plate shows a few clever devices. Sec Ices. Artistic Galantines. As viands for luncheons, suppers, and other cold colla- tions, there are none so applicable as savoury galantines; they admit of the simplest treatment, and of the most artistic, from the simple roll of spiced meat witli its parsley- spray garnish to the elaborate and exquisite arrangements shown in this Plate. Instructions for the preparation of such dishes are given under special headings, such as Eels, Fowls, Game, Larks, Plovers, &c. Artistic Garnishes. Garnishes. These two Plates convey suggestions for the prepara- tion and arrangement of various little tasty articles that admit of ornamental arrangement round large dishes. Artistic Garnishes for Cold Joints. The system of garnishing depicted in this Plate belongs to the highest order of the culinary art, requiring con- siderable time, care, and ingenuity in the arrangement. Artistic Gateaux. This Plate shows the wonderful effects that can be produced by applying coloured icing-sugar to Genoa and other plain cakes cut into elegant shapes, and by fastening slices together with apricot or other marmalade. By filling-up hollows with whipped cream, and ornament- ing with sugar-piping, spun sugar, candied fruits, bon- bons, &c., some remarkable dishes result. Drinking-glasses. Although glass was manufactured in this country as early as the middle of the sixteenth century, it was not produced in anything like perfection until the commence- ment of the nineteenth century; since then it has advanced with giant strides, as may be seen by a careful study of the specimens shown in this Plate. See also Tumblers. Artistic Emblematic Grosses Pieces. The splendid specimens of the culinary art shown in these Plates may be composed of either sweets or savouries, the stand being moulded in gum-paste (refer to that heading) to suit the occasions for which they are prepared—sporting, dancing, naval and military, &c. Artistic Jellies. British confectioners have for many years excelled in their artistic management of jellies. The designs given in this Plate are calculated to add to the variety of production, by suggesting others, such as balls of jellies, squares, slabs, resulting in pyramids, &c. See Jellies. Artistic Luncheon Dishes (No. 1). The Continental chef displays great talent in the preparation of dishes suitable for luncheons (dejeunes a la fourcliette). The drawings in this Plate were con- tributed by one of the greatest of living chefs as samples of those he has supplied to Royal tables. Artistic Luncheon Dishes (No. 2). A variety of prettily and tastily arranged dishes, including oysters, scallops, mussels, frogs, and snails. Particulars will be found under the names referred to. Luncheon-table laid under Tent for Fetes, &c. Given fine weather and good company, there are few spreads so absolutely enjoyable as a luncheon under a tent. The table may consist of the usual boards and trestles, covered by a stout damask cloth, the sides being draped by a long narrow cloth sewn on to the other and caught in folds with floral studs. The flooring should be of boards, evenly laid and covered with carpet. Floral decorations can be arranged to taste. See Luncheons. Meat Removes. The three drawings given in this Plate may be regarded as types. By means of garnishes the simplest and plainest food assumes the appearance of luxury. Home-made Paper Frills and Cases. To the cook and confectioner there are so many uses to which paper cases can be turned that some knowledge of how to cut and fold them is most important. In this Plate a few examples are given. See Paper. Paper Cases, Ornaments, &c., for Entremets, Entrees, Ices, Jellies, and other Sweet or Savoury Dishes. The figures in this Plate are drawn from machine- made specimens, supplied by Messrs. Hunt, Mansell, Catty, and Co.