673 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Tutti Frutti—continued. continually until about to boil; remove the pan from the fire, and pour the cream at once through a fine sieve into an earthenware basin. Let it get cold, pour it into the freezer, freeze it, remove the dasher of the freezer, and with a spatula work in about 3 pints in all of the follow- ing fruits in equal quantities, and all cut up: Cherries (stoned), strawberries, pine apple, apricots, peaches, green- gages, ripe currants, and citron-peel. These fruits may either be preserved or not, according to fancy. When thoroughly frozen, use as required. The elder-flowers may be omitted, and kirschenwasser, a little vanilla extract, and the juice of three lemons used to flavour it before working in the fruits. (8) Add to 1 pint of syrup made of loaf sugar and a little water the strained juice of two oranges, two lemons, and 1 dessert spoonful of vanilla. Put this mixture into the freezer, and when half frozen add and stir in 2 table- spoonfuls each of cherry and strawberry preserves, 1 table- spoonful each of greengage and peach preserves, cut in small pieces, and a small quantity of any other preserved fruits that are considered choice. Let it remain in the freezer till quite frozen, then serve. (9) Prepare 1 pint of lemon cream-ice, also 1 pint of coffee cream-ice, leaving them until wanted in the freezers. Take 2oz. of candied cherries cut in halves, 2oz. of candied apricots cut in slices, loz. of candied angelica cut into very small lozenge-shaped pieces, 2oz. of candied pine apple cut into very thin slices, and twelve French walnuts, shelled and divided. Have a 3-pint square mould, place half the lemon cream at the bottom, arrange a third of the fruits over, dividing them equally, cover with half of the coffee cream, and with a spoon press it down well. Lay half the remaining fruits on top of this, and spread over the rest of the lemon cream, then the last of the fruits, and fill up the mould with the balance of the coffee cream. Close very firmly, and lay it | in a pail with brokeu ice mixed with rock-salt at the bottom, filling it with the same, and freeze for two hours. Two minutes before serving, prepare a vessel with warm water, lift up the mould, and wash off the ice and salt; turn out the macedoine immediately on a cold dish with a fancy paper over, and send to table. (10) Put 1 pint of syrup (see Syrup), 1 gill of kirschen wasser, and the juice of three lemons into a basin, and mix in a few drops of extract of vanilla. Place this in the freezer, and work in two whites of Italian meringues ; freeze again, mix in lightly 1 pint of fruits composed of grapes, apricots, strawberries, pine apple, peaches, cherries, and also candied peel; stone the fruit, and cut all up into small pieces. Pour the mixture into moulds, and freeze until set, when it will be ready for use. Tutti-Frutti Icing-.—Mix with a boiled icing loz. each of chopped citron, candied cherries, Valencia raisins, candied pine apple, and blanched almonds. Tutti-Frutti Jelly.—Soak 2oz. of gelatine in l pint of cold water, mix with it the grated peel and juice of one lemon, the grated rind of half an orange, the juice of one orange, and lib. of powdered white sugar ; cover it, and let all stand together for an hour. Add ] pint of boiling water, stir till the gelatine is quite melted, add 2 whisked whites of fresh eggs, and then strain it; add to it 1 wineglassful each of white wine and the best French brandy, and strain it again, this time through double flannel, and without either squeezing or shaking the bag while the jelly drips through. Wet the inside of a fluted mould with cold water, pour a little of the jelly in the bottom of it, and let it get quite firm, in the meantime keeping the rest of the jelly warm by standing the vessel containing it in a pan of warm water. When the jelly at the bottom of the mould is quite firm, lay on top of it and close to the edge of the mould a row of crystallised cherries, and within the row of cherries a layer of shreds of crystallised apricots, greengages, peaches, &c.; pour over this more jelly, and let it stand till quite firm. In the meantime, blanch Jib. of sweet almonds, and throw them as they are slipped from their skins into cold water. When the jelly over the crystallised fruit is quite firm, take the almonds from the cold water, dry them, and cut them into Tutti Frutti—continued. very fine shreds ; put a row of cherries close to the outside of the mould as before, and then lay within them a layer of the shred almonds, pour over some more jelly, wait till it is cold and firm, and then put a layer of chopped crystallised fruits enclosed as before with a border of crystallised cherries. Pour in more jelly, and as the jelly cools proceed to add alternate layers of shred almonds and chopped fruits, enclosing each layer with a border of cherries, and pouring over sufficient jelly to cover, and waiting till it is firm to Flo. 917. Tutti-frutti Jelly. add the next layer. When the shape is full, set it on ice till quite firm—if frozen, so much the better. Turn it out on to a glass dish, garnish round with coloured jelly balls (see Fig. 917), and serve immediately. Tutti-Frutti Preserve.—Get a gallon jar, earthenware or glass, with a wide mouth and tight fitting cork. Place 1 pint of brandy in this jar, and put in any fruit as it comes into season, beginning with strawberries ; to every pound of fruit add lib. of finely-powdered sugar. Put the fruit in directly it is gathered, and thoroughly stir every day with a wooden spoon. Strawberries should be hulled, and all berries freed from stalks and stems, but should be put in whole ; cherries and all stoned fruit should be stoned, and the stalks picked off; plums, peaches, and apricots, should be peeled and quartered as well as stoned ; the pips should be taken out of grapes, but the skins may either be left on or taken off, according to taste. When the last fruit is put in, let it stand for a week ; it ought then to be fit for use. Keep the jar well corked, except when putting in fruit and stirring. TWELFTH CAKES.—Like many another of the good old customs, that of keeping up Christmas festivi- ties until Twelfth-night (twelve days after Christmas) has passed away. For a time Twelfth-night was regarded as the finale of a long holiday, then it became a sort of one-day resuscitation, and then fades away into the world of historical memories. Twelfth-night cards and characters are no longer in fashion, but the Twelfth- Cake seems to have a charmed life, and dies hard. The following are good receipts for these cakes, their chief characteristics being that they are iced over and deco- rated with coloured piping, fruits, and ornaments (see Fig. 918). (1) Put 21b. of butter into a large basin, and work it with the hand before the fire to a cream, adding 2lb. of finely -sifted sugar, a IP tie grated nutmeg, and Joz. each of cinnamon, allspice, ginger, and mace, all finely powdered. Beat all together, then work in twenty eggs with the yolks and whites whisked separately. Add gradually 2lb. of dried and sifted flour, 41b. of currants, Jib. of almonds blanched and bruised in a mortar with a little orange-flower water, Jib. of candied lemon-peel, and the same of candied citron cut into thin slices, and lastly 2 wineglassfuls of brandy. The cake should be well but lightly beaten between the 2 x For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II.