807 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. dishes of highest flavour, such as cured hams, smoked tongues, and any other of that kind. Sweets come on the table at this point. The repast concludes with savoury tit-bits, such as cheese and its preparations, caviare, dried fish, devilled biscuits, mushrooms, and other similar foods. With regard to the wines suitable for various courses, these differ according to circumstances and tastes; but full-flavoured, fruity wines should be left until the last, especially if there be a dessert to follow the dinner, as there generally is. The French cook likes to see Bordeaux and Burgundy with the earlier courses, Champagne later on. Chablis always with oysters, when these are served as Hors d’GEuvre. Soups should always be light, and very delicately flavoured, whether a consomme, cream, or puree. Fish to follow is better boiled with a simple sauce. Meat may be cooked in many ways, and entrees require suitable sauces. A very good rule is to begin with light flavours, gradually increasing till the highest is reached; but a more masterly arrangement is that in which the preceding dish or dishes prepare the palate for the next, until that acme of taste is reached when the palate can be interested no further. It may then be “ cleaned ” or prepared for dessert by a savoury of cheese, or something of a salt character, such as olives. With the foregoing remarks for guidance, the framing of Menus will be much simplified, and the following examples better understood and varied with greater confidence according to requirements and culinary conditions. Banquet given at the Hotel Metropole, Feb. 6, 1893, on behalf of the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children—the Duke of York presiding. Chablis. Dry Sherry. Rudesheimer. Deutz & Geldermann’s “ Gold hack. Max Sutaine & Co., extra quality, extra dry, 18o4. Liqueurs. Huitres au Citron. Consommh Duchesse. Veloute de Tomate au Tapioca. Turbot, Sauce Hollandaise. Filets de Sole a l’Orley. Mauviettes a la Turque. Bis de Veau aux Pointes d’Asperges. Granit Metropole. Selle de Mouton de Galles. Chapon Braise, Regence. Haricots Verts Sautes au Beurre. Pommes de Terre noisettes. Becassine roti sur Canape. Salade. Chateau Palmer Margaux, Grand Vin. Coekburn’s old bottled Port. Turban d’Ananas a la Creole. Maltaise a la Chantilly. Canape a la Provenpale. Corbeille de Glace Napolitaine. Petits Fours assortis. Johannis Natural Mineral Waters. Dessert. Cafe Noir. Special Dinner served at Windsor Castle on the Visit of the King of Roumania to the Queen, June 30, 1892. Potages. Printanier. A la Reine. Poissons. Truites, Sauce Hollandaise et Persil. Filets de Soles frits. Entrees. Rissoles a la d’Artois. Escalopes de Foies Gras a la Gelee. Releves. Haunch of Venison. Roast Beef. Rot. Cailles. Poulets. Entremets. Pois a la Franpaise. Beignet de Semouille, Sauce Abricot. Pains de Fraises a la Chantilly. Side Table. Cold Beef. Fowl. Tongue. Dinner served when the Gaekwar of Baroda visited Windsor Castle, July 4, 1892. Potages. A la Julienne. A la Creme de Riz. Poissons. Whitebait. Truites, Sauce Hollandaise et Persil. Entrees. Croquettes de Volaille. Cailles Bohemiennes, froides. Releve. Roast Beef. Rot. Canetons. Entremets. Pois a la Franpaise. Babas au Kirsch. Pudding froide a la Careme. Side Table. Hot and Cold Fowl. Tongue. Cold Beef Inaugural Dinner given by Signor Josef Fiorillo (member of the staff of this Encyclopaedia), at his School of Cookery, Berners Street, Oxford Street, London, 1893. Hors d’CEuvres. Dome d’Olives a la Capucine. Bocconi de Caviare d'Astrachan. Chaud. Marguerites de Volaille a la Hilda. Turbans de Queues de Homards princiers. Cocottes de Cailles a la Colombe. Froid. Celestines de Soles a la Victoria, Ballotines a la Parisienne. Pates de Gibier a la Perigord. Chaudfroid d’Ortolans en Cerise. Mousseline de Foie Gras a la Lucullus. Petits Pains farcis a la Varsovienne. Poulets de la Bresse a la Gelee. Langue a l’Ecarlate. Salade Gourme'e. Entremets. Mazarine a la Caroline. Timbales de Peches a la Montreuil. Gelee au Vin de Champagne. Macedoine de Fruits Renaissance. Charlotte Gauloise. Petits Gateaux varies. Dessert.