THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 750 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. V ol-au-V ents—continued. circle through the middle about Jin. deep, leaving an edge about lin. wide all round. Bake the paste in a moderate oven, and when cooked lift up the centre piece, which will have risen; scoop out t he uncoi ked paste, brush the inside with beaten egg, and put it in the oven for live minutes longer. Prepare a ragout of scalloped lillets of soles, oysters, mussels, and sliced mushrooms. Mix the cooking- liquor of the mussels with some veloute sauce maigre, boil it till somewhat reduced, then thicken it with the beaten yolks of two eggs. Mix the sauce with the ragout, put the cover of paste on, stand it on the dish it was made to fit, and serve. Vol-au-Vents a. la Toulouse.—Prepare Mb. of puff paste, giving it six turns. Roll the paste out about 2in. in thickness, and with a small round tin cutter divide the paste into rounds; with another tin cutter lin. smaller in diameter than the one just used, cut three-parts through the centre of each round of paste, thus forming the lids. Put the cases on a baking-sheet in a moderate oven, and bake them till nicely browned. When cooked, lift the centre pieces up carefully and scoop out the underdone paste. Prepare a few quenelles of chicken forcemeat, put them in a saucepan with the flesh of half a cold cooked chicken cut into small pieces, 2oz. of chopped cooked tongue, three sliced truffles, four or five mushrooms, three cocks’ combs, and J pint of supreme sauce. Stir the above mixture over the fire till hot, but not boiling, fill the Vol au-Vents with it, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve at once. The cases should only be filled when ready to serve, as standing long with the mixture in them is likely to make them sodden. VOSLAUER.—The best of the Austrian wines, both sparkling and still, are so named. VOUARA.—A beverage prepared by the Indians of French Guiana, from the fruit of the plantain. Another beverage very similar to this is known as Vouapaya. ■WATERS.—A variety of Wafers will be found described under various headings, such as Ginger, Gluten, Graham-flour, Oatmeal, &c., their mode of preparation being carefully explained. Should it be desired to make the Wafers exceedingly thin and exact in Fig. 1016. Wafer-irons (Adams and Son). size, it is advisable to use wafer-irons or tongs (see Fig. 1016), which are of round, square, oval, or oblong pattern, the faces being made to stamp patterns and letters. The following will be found good receipts: (1) Stir into ) pint of new milk to which a little cream has been added sufficient dried and finely-sifted flour to form a thin batter; then add 1 wineglassful of sherry or Maderia, a dusting of powdered cinnamon, and 1 large table spoonful of caster sugar. It is perhaps advisable to dissolve the sugar in the milk before stirring in the flour. Have the wafer-irons ready heated, rub the surfaces with a piece of buttered rag, pour 1 spoonful of the batter on to the hollowed inner face of one blade of the tongs, close them tightly, turn them once or twice over the fire, and the Wafers are cooked. (2) Put 6oz. of well-dried flour into a basin, add the yolks of two eggs, 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and 1 table-spoonful of cream mixed with double the quantity of rose-water. Form these into a batter, using water should it be too thick, and then add the whites of W afers—continued. the two eggs, whipped to a froth. Oil the wafer-irons, pour in a thin coating of the batter, close the irons, and cook over a charcoal fire. When done, roll them round a stick, and stand them on end to dry. Should a pink colouring be desired, a little cochineal should be added. (3) Mix lib. of flour smooth with \ pint of thick cream, then beat in gradually lib. of caster sugar and 1 teacupful of orange-flower water. When quite smooth, stir in a little more cream, to bring the mixture to the consistency of fine fritters. Heat the wafer-irons on both sides and grease them inside; put about U table-spoonfuls of liquid paste into each wafer-iron, shut them up, and cook on both sides until a delicate brown. While still hot roll them round. Keep them dry in biscuit-tins. Dutch Wafers.—Rub 3oz. of butter till quite smooth in 7oz. of sifted flour, then add ooz. of caster sugar and the grated peel of an orange. Mix a beaten egg with the above ingredients, and work them to a smooth stiff paste. Cut the paste into small equal-sized portions, and shape them like olives. Make a wafer-iron hot, put in one of the pieces of paste, close the iron tightly, and cook on both sides. When cooked,-take the Wafer out of the iron, put it flat on a sieve, and finish the remainder of the paste in the same way. The Wafers should be kept dry in a biscuit-tin till used. Flemish Wafers.—These differ very slightly from Dutch Wafers, being flavoured with lemon, or almond, instead of orange. Square or oblong irons are irsed for them. French Wafers.—Put Mb. of finely-sifted flour into a basin with Mb- of caster sugar, 1 pinch of salt, and 1 table- spoonful of vanilla. Beat the whites of four eggs with \ pint of thin cream, stir them gradually in with the flour, &c., and work the whole into a smooth batter; then pour in 1 wineglassful of brandy, and work it vigorously for ten minutes. Make the wafer-irons hot, brush them over inside with a paste-brush dipped in clarified butter, pour 1 good table-spoonful of the batter on the bottom or under-sheet of the wafer-irons, close the top part upon this, and bake the Wafers on both sides. They must be a very light fawn colour, and when done are to be immediately rolled into shape upon a stick made for the purpose about 5in. long and lin. thick. When all are done, the Wafers should be packed in a tin box and kept in a warm dry place till required for use. Russian Wafers.—As these were introduced from French schools of cookery, they are virtually the same as French Wafers, differing only in the pattern of the wafer-iron, which is oval instead of round or oblong, and vodka being- substituted for brandy. Timbale of Wafers with Filbert Ice.—Pound 7oz. of Jordan almonds that have been previously blanched and peeled with a little white of egg, then mix with them Jib. of caster sugar. Stand some baking-sheets in the oven for a few minutes; when they are warmed, rub them over with pure white wax and leave till cold. Spread the almond paste on the sheets in strips 4in. wide and Mn- thick, and bake them ; when they are nearly done, trim the edges of the strips, cut them across into pieces liin. wide, then put them back in the oven and finish baking. Roll the pieces lengthwise round some sticks that are Mn- in diameter. Place the Wafers with a little sugar icing in an upright position round a small plain mould. Make a round of Genoise paste about Jin. thick and the same size as the mould; take the ring of Wafers carefully out of the mould, place them _ on the round of paste, and put the timbale in a slack oven to dry. Bake lOoz. of filberts sufficiently to dry the skins so that they may come off' quickly; when the filberts are cool and the skins removed, pound them in a mortar, pouring on them gradually lqt. of boiled cream, and pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. Put the filbert cream in a stewpan with the yolks of ten eggs and lOoz. of caster sugar. Stir the preparation over the fire till it is thick, but do not let it boil; strain it through a fine hair sieve, put the cream in a freezing- pot, pack it in pounded ice, and work the cream with a spatula till all is nearly frozen; then mix in 1 pint of well-whipped cream, and finish freezing. When ready to