THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 745 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Vermicelli—continued. Jib. of Vermicelli, <1 liea-1 of celery cut into small pieces, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper and salt. Boil the soup for fifteen minutes. Put a penny roll in a soup- tureen, pour a little of the soup on it, let it soak for a few minutes, then pour in the remainder of the soup, and serve. (2) Prepare 3qts. of broth with the trimmings, bones, and jowls of fish, some vegetables, and a small quantity of white wine. Chop an onion and the white part of two leeks, put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of olive oil, and fry till nicely browned. Skin three tomatoes, cut them into small pieces, removing at the same time all the pips; put them in with the fried onion, &c., and add a sprig of parsley, a bay leaf, and four cloves. Strain the broth through a silk sieve, pour it over the above articles, and boil up again. Put lib. of Vermicelli in the soup, and let it simmer by the side of the fire. When cooked, turn the soup into a tureen, and serve. (3) Clean the hearts and livers of several chickens, cut them into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and toss them over the fire till half cooked; drain the butter off the livers and hearts, dust them with salt, and pour in 4 pints of clear chicken broth. Stand it over the fire till boiling, then put in 6oz. of Vermicelli, and boil till tender. When cooked, pour the soup into a soup-tureen, dust powdered cinnamon and pepper over it, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast. (4) Put Jib. of fine Vermicelli in a saucepan with lqt. of clear stock that has been perfectly freed from fat, anil boil it. Prepare 2qts. of nicely-flavoured soup, and when ready pour it into a soup-tureen. Drain the Vermicelli, put it in with the soup, and serve at once with a plate of grated Parmesan cheese. (5) Put over the fire some good, strong, strained, well- seasoned broth. When it boils put in the Vermicelli, and let it simmer for half-an-hour; do not let the Vermicelli burst, and do not thicken the soup too much with it. Half a pound is sufficient for soup for eight or ten people. (6) Indian Style.—Clean the livers and hearts of three fowls and the gizzard of one, put them in a sauce- pan with a little water, and boil gently until half cooked; next drain, and cut them into small pieces. Put them in a saucepan with 3qts. of clear stock, 3oz. of Vermicelli, salt and pepper to taste, and a moderate quantity of sweet herbs, and keep all simmering gently until very tender. Turn the soup into a. soup tureen, and serve. Vermicelli Soup with Tomato Puree.—Prepare 3qts. of fish stock as for thick soup; when boiling, move it to the side of the fire and let it simmer for half-an-hour. Make H pints of fresh tomato puree. Skim the fat off the soup, put in a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs and the tomato puree, then let it simmer for twenty minutes longer. Boil ill), of Vermicelli gently in salted water till tender. Strain the soup, put in the Vermicelli, skim off all the fat, and boil up again. Turn the soup into a tureen, and serve. Vermicelli Timbale.—Pour 2qts. of milk in a saucepan on the fire, bring it to the boil, and add lOoz. of slightly- broken Vermicelli, 6oz. of lemon sugar, Jib. of butter, and 1 pinch of salt. As soon as the Vermicelli is suffi- Vermicelli—continued. ciently swollen, add Jib. of powdered macaroons, the yolks of six eggs, and the whites of two ; stir gently, then add the well whipped whites of two eggs and 4 table-spoonfuls of cream also well whipped. Have ready a timbale-mould lined with puff paste, fill up with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for about an-hour-and a-half. When done, turn it out (see Pig. 1009) and serve immediately. VERMOUTH.—This pleasing bitter is manufactured with wormwood, white wine, and orange wine, and sweetened with sugar. VERSAILLES CREAM.—See Cream. VIANDS. — This term is derived from the Latin vivenda—provisions, and was probably introduced into our domestic vocabulary by the French. The term Victuals has a similar derivation and signification. VICHY WATER.—See Aerated Waters. VICOU.—A beverage made by the Indians of French Guiana from the plantain. VICTORIA BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. VICTORIA CAKE.—See Cakes. VICTORIA PUDDING.—See Puddings. VICTORIA SAUCE.—See Sauces. VICTORIA SOUP.—See Soups. VICTUALS.—See Viands. VIDOGNA.—A wine manufactured in Teneriffe, resembling Madeira. VIENNA BEER.—A dark amber-coloured beverage with a white frothy head, which has found much favour in this country since its introduction about the year 1867. VIENNA BREAD AND ROLLS.-See Bread and Vienna Flour. VIENNA FLOUR.—Italy is famous for the excel- lence of the wheat grown on its vast mountain slopes, and undulating land. Something may be due to the richness of the soil, and the warm and equable climate. The flour of this Italian wheat is exceedingly white, and suitable for making the very best kinds of pastry, bread, &c. (see Vienna Rolls, under Bread). The superiority of Italian-made macaroni, vermicelli, &c., is due to the fine quality of the flour. VIENNA CAKES.—See Cakes. VIENNA DUMPLINGS.—See Dumplings. VIENNA PUDDINGS.—See Puddings. VIENNA ROLLS.—See Bread. VILLEROY SAUCE.—See Sauces. VINAIGRETTE SAUCE.—See Sauces. VINASSE.—A brown watery liquor which is the residue of the distillation of beetroot wine. It contains a large proportion of potash. VINE - LEAVES. — For garnishing dessert-dishes these leaves are very effective, owing to their beautiful green colour and graceful shape (see Fig. 1010). They possess some flavour, which has led cooks to use them for certain culinary purposes. They are occasionally selected to wrap round small birds, or to contain a forcemeat. In this last condition they are served as Stuffed Vine-