731 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Vegetable Marrows—continued. following sauce: Incorporate loz. of butter and 1 table- spoonful of flour in a stewpan over the fire; then mix in gradually J pint of boiling water, and stir over the fire for five minutes; next move it to the side, and stir in the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten up with the juice of a small lemon and strained. When the Marrows are cooked, drain them well, put them on a hot dish with some pieces of toast underneath them, pour the sauce over, and serve. Pried Vegetable Marrow. (1) Select a nice large Vegetable Marrow, peel it, remove the seeds, and cut it into pieces about 1 Jin. long and fin. wide. Put these on a plate, strew them well with salt, and leave them for an hour or two. Afterwards, put them on a cloth, twist it round and wring it well, to extract as much of the juice as possible from the Marrows, but do not squeeze them hard enough to break them. Dredge them over with flour, seeing that each piece is well covered, and lay them in a frying-basket. Put a large lump of clarified fat in a stewpan, and when boiling put in the basket. As each piece of Marrow is nicely browned, take it out of the stewpan, dust it lightly over with salt, and lay it on a sheet of paper in front of the fire for a minute or two, to drain as free from fat as possible. Spread a fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, lay the Marrow on it, and serve. (2) Peel the required number of Vegetable Marrows, cut them into quarters and take out all the seeds, and stew gently until done in a saucepan with a little butter, lemon-juice, and salt. Dip each piece separately into well- beaten egg and then into breadcrumbs, put them into a frying-pan with some boiling fat, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, fry them to a light brown, and serve in a vegetable dish. (3) Cut some Vegetable Marrows into thin slices with a cucumber slice, take out the seeds, dry the slices on a cloth, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them until done. Take them out carefully, arrange them on a dish with a napkin spread over it, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and serve. (4) Peel the Marrows, cut them into thin rounds, remove the seeds, lay the rounds between two plates with plenty of salt strewn over them and a weight on the top, and leave them for several hours. When ready, dry the slices of Marrow on a cloth, flour them well, put them in a stewpan with plenty of boiling olive oil, and fry them until tender. Mix with 1 breakfast cupful of wine vinegar an equal quantity of finely minced parsley and mint, half a dozen well-washed and pounded anchovies, h table-spoon- ful of sugar, and pepper to taste. Drain the slices of Marrow, lay them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. (5) Italian Style.—Peel some young Marrows, cut them into rounds about Jin. thick, strew plenty of salt over them, lay them between two plates with a weight on the top, and leave them for several hours. Wash four or five anchovies, remove the skin and bone, mince them finely, put them in a mortar with J table-spoonful each of chopped parsley and mint, a heaped teaspoonful of moist sugar, and pepper to taste, and pound the whole until quite smooth ; then stir in gradually a sufficient quantity of white wine vinegar to make the sauce. Drain the pieces of Marrow, dry them on a cloth, and dredge th.em over with flour. Pour a good quantity of olive oil into a deep frying pan, and place it on the fire; when the blue smoke arises, put in the pieces of Marrow, and fry them until nicely browned. When ready, drain them on a sheet of paper in front of the fire, then pile them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Pried Vegetable Marrow with Chicken.—Select very young Vegetable Marrows about 3in. long, lay them on a dish, and dust them lightly over with salt. In about half an hour’s time drain them, and rub them well with a cut lemon. Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan, and place it over the fire; when it is melted, put in the Marrow, and fry it until nicely browned ; then pour in a few table- spoonfuls of broth, and stew until tender. Prepare and cut a young fowl into quarters, rub it well with cut lemon, Vegetable Marrows—continued. then put it in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and fry it until slightly browned. Moisten the fowl with sufficient clear broth to cover it, and stew it until tender. When cooked, put the Marrow and chicken on to a hot dish, and serve. Fried Vegetable Marrow with Parmesan Cheese.— Peel the Marrow, cut it in quarters lengthwise, scoop out the seeds, and cut it into convenient lengths, ltub a stewpan over with garlic, put in a large lump of butter, and melt it; then put in the pieces of Marrow, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and toss them about over the fire. Before the Marrow is quite done, put in plenty of grated Parmesan cheese, and add more butter if necessary. When quite tender, turn the Marrow on to a hot dish, with the cheese over it, garnish with sippets of hot buttered toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter, and serve. Preserved Vegetable Marrow.—(1) Select a nice firm Vegetable Marrow, peel it, cut it into small thick slices, and boil them until tender; then put them on a sieve and let them drain for twenty-four hours. Weigh the Marrow, and allow an equal weight of sugar. Put the sugar in a pan with about Jib. of bruised ginger, a small quantity of lemon peel, and 1 pint of cold water, and boil it to a syrup, keeping it well skimmed. When the syrup is clear, put in the pieces of Marrow, and boil them for two or three minutes; then turn them into a basin with the syrup. The next day, strain the syrup off the pieces of Marrow, boil it up again, and pour it boiling over the Marrow. Proceed in this way on the two following days, then turn the preserve into jars, and when cold tie them over for use. (2) Procure freshly-cut Marrows, peel them, cut them into halves, scoop out all the seeds, and cut the Marrows into slices about Jin. thick. For each pound of Marrow, weighed after it has been peeled, &c., allow 111), of coarsely- crushed loaf sugar. Lay the slices in layers on a deep dish, with sugar between each layer, and squeeze over the juice of one lemon for each pound. Leave the Marrow for three days, then put it into a preserving-pan, with \ pint of water for every 31b. of sugar, ami boil gently until the Marrow is tender ; then turn the whole into a large pan, and leave it for seven or eight days. At the end of that time strain off the syrup, mix with it a small quantity of thinly-pared lemon-peel and some bruised ginger, and boil it until thickly reduced, skimming it well. Put the Marrow into jars. Strain the syrup through a fine sieve, and pour it hot over the Marrow. When cold, cover the jars with stout paper, tie down with twine, and pack them away in a dry store cupboard. The ginger and lemon peel may be omitted if not liked, but the additional flavour will be found to improve the Marrow. (3) Peel a large Marrow, cut it into halves lengthwise, and scoop out the seeds and soft pulp. Cut it into slices, lay them in a deep dish, strew plenty of sugar over them, and leave them until the next day. When ready, cut the slices of Marrow into small equal-sized lengths, and weigh them ; for each pound allow lib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, loz. of ginger that has been bruised in a mortar, and the rind and juice of one lemon. Put all the ingredients in a preserving-pan, and place it over a gentle fire ; also put in a few pods of cayenne tied up in a piece of muslin, and take them out again when their flavour has been sufficiently extracted. Boil the whole until quite clear, then turn the preserve into small jars. When cold, cover with parchment, tie down, and store them away for use. Preserved Vegetable Marrow for Curry.—Peel two or three Marrows, cut them into slices about lin. thick, and remove the seeds. Put the slices on to a large dish, dust them over with moist sugar, let them remain for a day, and then strain off the water. Weigh the Marrow, put it into a preserving-pan with an equal weight of loaf sugar, and to every 41b. add loz. of bruised ginger and the rind and juice of two lemons, and boil until quite clear, adding a little cayenne when nearly done. Put the Marrow away in jars, and keep it in a cool place until wanted.