761 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred, to, see under their special heads Weddings and Wedding-breakfasts—continued. to mention. All sorts of mayonnaise, especially of salmon, lobster, and crayfish, or prawns; aspics of most kinds, galantines, pates, and salads. Cold fowl, cold lamb, and other meats requiring skill in carving, are best omitted, unless previously boned and stuffed. Bouchees, savoury tourtes, and fancy cheeses. Bread and butter plentifully distributed round the table. In cold weather a plate of consomme prepares the way comfortably for the cold viands, some of which, such as croquettes, rissoles, agnelotti, patties, and others, may be served hot if convenient to the available service of tbe house. It is, however, better far to have all cold and in place ready for action than to risk delays caused by the irregular service of hot dishes. Sweets find innumerable representations—ices, jellies, and creams, custards with fruit tarts, trifles, cakes and French gateaux, compotes of fruits, meringues, tartlets, sweet biscuits; and if the occasion is convenient, a cro- quenbouche or sultane may perfect the display. A few small ornamental china or glass dishes contain- ing candied fruits, or other artistic sweetmeats, add to the attractiveness of the table, and true-lovers’ knots in candied fruit-pastes are apt to engender an occasional ebullition of merriment. Coffee should be served after all. It is quite obvious that the service of the Wedding- breakfast depends entirely upon the facilities at com- mand. When the great change that is pending includes the abolition of the feast, then a reform will have been brought about that is not only imminent since the ex- tension of hours for marrying, but badly wanted. See also Bride Cakes. WEDDING CAKES.—See Bride Cakes. WEEVEBi {Fr. Yive).—A sea fish of the genus Trachinus, having a number of sharp spines along the back (see Fig. 1036), which cause painful wounds when they pierce the skin- There are two kinds caught along Fig. 1036. Weever. our coasts, one being somewhat larger than the other. Common names for them are Stingbull, Gowdie, and Seacat. They may be cooked as follow: Baked Weevers.—Clean eight large Weevers, and cut off their fins; coat the inside of a baking-dish with a thick layer of butter, lay the fish in, and season with salt and pepper. Finely chop an equal quantity of mushrooms, shallots, and parsley; put a lump of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of hour, stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then put in the chopped mushrooms, Ac., and fry them for a few minutes. Pour J pint' each of white wine and stock in the saucepan, stir it over a slow fire, anti let it boil for twenty minutes. Pour the sauce over the fish, cover with grated breadcrumb, put a few small pieces of butter on the top, and bake for twenty minutes. When cooked, serve the fish. Weevers a la Maitre d'Hotel —Clean the required number of fish and cut off their heads, tails, and fins. Make some incisions down the sides of the fish, put them in a deep dish, sprinkle some chopped parsley and salt over, baste them with olive oil, and let them soak for two hours. Put the fish on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning them to do both sides equally. When cooked, put the Weevers on a hot dish, cover with maitre- d’hotel sauce, and serve. Weevers a la Normande.—Clean, scrape, and wash some W eevers, taking care not to prick the fingers with the Weever—continued. fins, as they are poisonous. Remove the heads and tails, and lard the fish with fillets of anchovy and eel. Put a few slices of carrot and onion in a saucepan with a bunch of thyme, parsley, and laurel-leaves, and three or four cloves. Put in the Weevers, cover them with white wine, and boil gently till cooked. When cooked, take the fish out with a slice, and put them on a hot dish. Strain the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve, and return it to the saucepan; work a pat of butter with a table-spoonful of flour, mix it in the sauce, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes to cook the flour. Pour the sauce over the Weevers, squeeze a small quantity of lemon-juice over, and serve. WEEVILS.—Small insects of the beetle tribe, which bore holes in biscuits and other foods in which to deposit their eggs. A few seconds in the hot oven will destroy the young insects, and exposing the foods to draughts of cold air, will generally keep them at bay. WEIGHTS and MEASURES.—A very practical writer on kitchen management observes: “ I would mention the extreme importance of including amongst household requisites a pair of scales and a set of weights. There is no check so effectual against short weight as the practice of weighing. With butchers’ meat this is particularly necessary, joints often being unaccountably changed, from one being so like another except in weight. Besides this, it is almost impossible to cook meat ac- curately unless it be previously weighed and timed. A pair of scales and set of weights can be bought, large enough for all domestic purposes, for twelve or fourteen shillings; and I have no hesitation in saying that they will defray their cost within the first twelve months’ use.” Such a recommendation is not to lie despised, even though we have the word of the artistic chef that weighing and measuring are almost unknown amongst high-class cooks, every ingredient being added according to the instinctive judgment of the operator. Amongst amateur cooks and beginners weighing and measuring are regarded with considerable respect, for without due care and caution in apportioning the quantities, the fear exists that the preparation may not be a success. Throughout this Encyclopaedia the greatest care has been taken to express exactly the quantities that are to be used, often under considerable disadvantages, the cooks supplying the receipts not having, in some cases, specified very exactly the proportions; the expressions “take a little” and “add a fair amount,” &c., so frequently used by them, being so indefinite as to lead to much confusion. Again, the custom that pre- vails amongst cooks of measuring ingredients with spoons, cups, and glasses, or by comparative sizes, such as that of an egg, nut, or bean, and by pinches, renders it necessary that there should be some under- standing as to what quantities these measurements re- present. The following Tables of Equivalents have been arranged, based upon the ascertained average sizes and capacity of those measures in general use; and by these standards the proportions given in the receipts throughout this Encyclopaedia are regulated. Liquids. The figures given hereunder apply to the measure- ment of water and fluids of a similar density, such as vinegar, milk, wine, and lemon-juice* Syrups, oils, and cream, weigh heavier than water, and spirits a trifle less. 2 saltspoonfulsf = 1 teaspoonful (1 fluid drachm, or 30 drops). 2 teaspoonfuls = 1 dessert-spoonful (2 fluid drachms). 2 dessert spoonfuls = 1 table-spoonful (4 fluid ounce). * The juice of one lemon = about 1 table-spoonful, t A pinch of cayenne pepper=about I saltspoonful ; a pinch of salt is taken up in all four fingers and thumb=about 1 table- spoonful, or loz.