THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 703 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. them over the fire. When boiling, move the stewpan to the edge of the fire, and let the contents simmer until tender, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. When cooked, turn the collops and other ingredients on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Cut some thin collops off the thin part of a leg of Veal, season them with salt and grated nutmeg, and fry them a nice brown on both sides, laying them on a hot dish when they are done. Season J pint of good gravy with ketchup, port wine, and walnut pickle to taste. Mix a little flour in the pan the collops were fried in, pour in the seasoned gravy, boil it up, pour it over the collops, and serve. (3) Cut some small slices, about 2in. in diameter and a little more than Jin. thick, off the thick part of a leg of Veal. Put about 2oz. of butter into a stewpan over a gentle fire, and before the pan gets hot put in the slices of Veal or collops; turn them over in the butter till it is a sort of thick white gravy, and let them fry till sufficiently cooked, but do not let them brown. Put them into a covered saucepan on the hearth to keep warm till all are fried. Then add to the gravy they were fried in 1 teaspoonful each of caper liquor, ketchup, and lemon pickle, and a seasoning of powdered mace, cayenne, and salt, thicken it with flour and butter, and let it boil for five minutes; add the yolks of two eggs beaten up with J pint of cream, and stir the gravy till it looks quite thick; then put in the collops, and shake the pan over the fire till they are quite hot. Pour them on a dish over a few pickled mushrooms, and serve hot. (4) Cut some collops, not too thick, from the best part of a leg of Veal, and lay over each a very thin slice of bacon the size of the Veal, put a layer of forcemeat over this, and season it with the smallest quantity of cayenne. Roll them up tightly, fasten them with a very small skewer, brush them over with egg, cover them with bread- crumbs, and fry them in butter, taking care they do not burn. When they are done, put 2oz. of butter rolled in flour into tiie pan, pour in the strained juice of a lemon or ] table-spoonful of lemon pickle, add pepper, salt, and a very little pounded mace, also 1 breakfast-cupful of hot water, and boil it up for a few minutes. Place the collops on a dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve very hot. Spiced Veal.—Cut cold lean Veal, either baked or fried, into pieces lin. square. Measure sufficient vinegar to cover it, and make the vinegar scalding hot, adding to each pint one dozen whole cloves, Jin. of stick cinnamon, ] teaspoonful of salt, and a small red pepper, or a dozen peppercorns. When the vinegar is hot, pour it and the spices over the pieces of Veal, and let them stand in the pickle for at least twenty four hours. It is then ready for use, and is excellent served cold for luncheon or supper. Stewed Breast of Veal.—(1) Blanch a breast of Veal, put it in a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, each stuck with jiwo or three cloves, the peel of half a lemon, a blade of mace, salt and pepper to taste, and 3oz. of butter. Fry the Veal for two or three minutes, but without allowing it to take colour, then pour in 1 pint of hot water, and stew gently until tender. When cooked, remove the long bones from the Veal and strain the liquor. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan, and mix them over the fire; then stir in the Veal stock, add 1 teacupful of thick cream, and stir it over the fire until boiling; next move the stewpan to the side of the fire, Veal —continued. and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, the juice of half a lemon, and some oysters that have been blanched in their own liquor. Place the Veal on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, garnish with fried oysters and slices of lemon (see Fig 952), and serve. (2) Bone a breast of Veal, cut it in two, lay the two pieces one on top of the other in a stewpan, cover it with stock made from Veal bones and h pint of white wine, and put in with it two anchovies, a blade of mace, two or three cloves, a little whole pepper, and a small quantity of salt. Put the stewpan over the fire and let the contents stew gently. When the Veal is done enough, take it out of the stewpan and put it on a hot dish where it will keep warm. Strain the gravy, and stir in a thickening of butter and flour, keep stirring it, and let the flour boil for ten minutes; stir in a few oysters then, and when they are quite hot pour the gravy over the Veal, and serve hot. (3) Cut out the blade-bone from a breast of Veal, stuff forcemeat into the place where the bone was taken from, sew the veal up to keep the forcemeat in its place, and half roast it. With the bones and trimmings make lqt. of gravy, boiling with them a large onion, a bunch of parsley, a bit of lemon-peel, two blades of mace, some whole pepper, and a litrie salt. When sufficiently boiled, strain the gravy, and put it over the fire again with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and stir it till it boils; then put into it the half-roasted Veal and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and let it stew for about two hours. A few minutes before taking it from the fire, add 1 wineglassful of white wine and 1 table-spoonful of lemon pickle. Serve the Veal garnished with fried forcemeat balls. (4) Half roast the Veal, browning it nicely, then put it in a stewpan with a few small mushrooms, a shallot, a blade of mace, three cloves, and a little walnut pickle; add a little oyster liquor and some good gravy, just sufti cient to stew it in, and let it stew for an-hour-and-a-half; then add a very little anchovy liquor, and let the Veal stew half-an-hour longer. Serve garnished with parsley and slices of lemon. (5) Cut a breast of Veal in small pieces, put it over a gentle fire in a stewpan, together with a bunch of sweet herbs, a rasher of lean bacon nicely trimmed, an onion peeled, a dozen black peppercorns, a blade of mace, and salt to taste ; pour over it sufficient cold water to barely cover it, and let it stew till the Veal is done. Boil 1 pint of peas and a head of lettuce, and when the Veal is sufficiently cooked, take it from the stewpan, strain the gravy, and put it back in the stewpan with the peas, the lettuce, and a small piece of butter rolled in flour, and let it stew for ten minutes; then stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, put in the Veal again, let it warm for a minute or two, pour all into a hot dish, and serve. (6) Take out the short bones or gristles of a breast of Veal, put the meat into a stewpan with a rasher of ham, a bunch of parsley, a little whole pepper, a little salt, and an onion stuck with a clove or two; then add a little white stock, sufficient to stew the meat, and let it simmer for nearly two hours. When the meat is tender, take it out, strain the gravy, and put it back over the fire with It pints of green peas; when they are boiled, put the Veal in again, and let all stew together for twenty minutes. Then place the meat in the centre of a hot dish, and pour the peas and gravy round it. Stewed Breast of Veal a la Chipolata.—The same as for Stewed Breast op Veal a la Nantaise, pouring 1 pint of hot Chipolata on the dish, and placing the breast of Veal on top. Stewed Breast of Veal a la Milaisienne.—The same as for Stewed Breast of Veal a la Nantaise, substi- tuting six small stuffed cabbages for the other garnishing. Stewed Breast of Veal a la Nantaise.—Trim 31b. of the breast of Veal, make a few incisions on the top, and tie it round firmly with string. Lay it in a deep saute pan with a piece of pork-skin cut up, a carrot, and a cut-up onion, and cover with a buttered paper; when it begins to colour, after five minutes’ cooking, moisten it gentiy