THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 730 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Vegetables— continued. boiled for five minutes, then thoroughly drained. Put all the Vegetables into a saucepan, pour in lqt. of boiling water and lqt. of stock, and boil slowly till tender; then put in with them 1 breakfast-cupful of tomatoes, 1 table- spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful each of sugar and salt, and £ teaspoonful of pepper. Turn the soup into a tureen, and serve. (2) Cut four carrots, four onions, and a stick of celery into pieces, and put them into a saucepan with lqt. of dried peas, Jib. of well-washed rice, a few slices of potatoes, and a large lump of butter. Fry till nicely browned, then pour in Gqts. of water, and iet them boil gently for four hours. Strain the soup through a fine hair sieve, rubbing the Vegetables through at the same time, and let it stand till the following day. Half-an-hour before serving, pour the soup into a saucepan, season it with pepper and salt to taste, and boil it up again. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, mix 1 pint of boiled green peas with it, and serve. (3) The night before making this soup, wash \ pint of Scotch barley, and put it to soak in water. The next morning, put it into a saucepan with 3qts. of cold water and 2oz. of clarified beef dripping, and boil it until reduced to half its original quantity. Peel and thinly slice four carrots, four onions, and two turnips, or one very large one ; wash and cut in thin shreds two lettuces and two heads of celery. Put the Vegetables in the soup, with moderate quantities of finely-chopped parsley and mint, and 1 tea- spoonful of French dried colouring onion, and keep the soup simmering gently at the edge of the fire for an hour- a-lialf longer. When ready, turn it into a soup tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or small croutons of bread fried brown in butter. (4) Scrape, wash, and cut small three carrots, and put them over the fire with |lb. of butter, one dozen cabbage lettuces well washed and cut small, eight large green onions, a little less than 1 teacupful of parsley, the same quantity of purslane, the same of chervil, lqt. of green peas, and 1 heaped teacupful of sorrel, or if peas are out of season, 1 heaped breakfast-cupful of sorrel; add a seasoning of pepper and salt, shut down the saucepan lid tight, and let all stew for thirty minutes, shaking them every now and then to keep them from burning or stick ing to the saucepan. Peel half-a-dozen cucumbers, cut them lengthwise into quarters, and fry them in butter. When the herbs and Vegetables have stewed for half an - hour, put the cucumbers into the saucepan with them, add also a crust of bread toasted on both sides, half a French roll, and lgall. of hot water, and let all boil together till lqt. of the water has evaporated ; then strain it through a sieve, return it to the saucepan, and set it where it will keep almost boiling, but not quite. Beat the yolks of four eggs with 4 pint of cream, and stir this into the soup just before pouring it into the tureen. (5) Chop up as finely as possible a few Vegetables in season, such as turnips, carrots, cabbage, spinach, celery, parsley, onions, &c., add a little mint, and plenty of herbs, also cut fine. Put them into a saucepan with a little water, and stew gently until they are tender; then add 2qts. of boiling water, cook a-quarter-of-an-hour longer, and serve. VEGETABLE MARROWS (Fr. Aubergines; Ger. Pflanzenmark).—By some extraordinary confusion or another French and English cooks have confused the Vegetable Marrow with the egg-plant, probably because the earlier plants bore fruits shaped somewhat like an egg; by cultivation, however, they have assumed quite a dif- fei’ent character isee Fig. 994). The Vegetable Marrow (Cucurbita oviferci succada) is one of the most valuable sorts of the gourd tribe for culinary purposes, and was j originally introduced into this country from Persia about I the year 1819. It is a watery vegetable without much j nutriment, but with a fine mellow flavour. Marrows are ; in season from June to August, and are much approved by i all classes. Boiled Vegetable Marrows.—(1) Peel the Marrows, cut | them into moderate-sized pieces, put them in a saucepan 1 Vegetable Marrows—continued. of boiling water, with a lump of salt, a bunch of parsley, and an onion stuck with four or five cloves, and boil them until tender. Prepare the following sauce: Put loz. of butter into a small stewpan with h, table-spoonful of Fig. 994. Vegetable Marrows. flour, and mix them over the fire; next stir in a small bottle of tomato sauce, and continue stirring it until boiling, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. When cooked, drain the Marrows, put them on a hot vegetable- dish, pour the sauce over them (see Fig. 995), and serve while very hot. (2) Take off the peel from some Marrows, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil gently for from ten to twenty minutes, or until they are done. Take them out with a slice, put them into a vegetable- dish, cut them into halves or quarters, and serve with a sauceboatful of melted butter. Two ounces of butter may Fig. 995. Boiled Vegetable Marrows. be added to the water whilst boiling, if desired, and the melted butter poured over them ; or they may be served cut in halves and white sauce poured over. The time taken to cook depends upon the size of the Marrows. Boiled Vegetable Marrow with Parmesan Cbeese.— Peel and cut the Marrows into convenient lengths, and boil them in salted water, with a bunch of parsley and an onion stuck with four cloves. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan, and stir them over the fire until smoothly mixed; then stir in 4 pint of boiling water, salt and pepper to taste, and boil for five minutes; next move the sauce to the side of the fire, and mix in Jib. of grated Parmesan cheese. When the Marrows are cooked, drain them well, put them on a hot dish with a few pieces of toast underneath them, pour the sauce over, and serve. Boiled Vegetable Marrows with Poulette Sauce.—Peel the Marrows, cut them into halves lengthwise, and scoop out the seeds ; then cut them into convenient lengths, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, with a lump of salt, an onion stuck with three or four cloves, and a bunch of parsley, and boil them until tender. Prepare the