THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 675 Urns—continued. Latin urere—to burn, as having been made of burnt clay, or to hold the ashes of the burned dead. Webster describes an Urn as “ a vessel of various forms, usually a vase furnished with a foot or pedestal, employed for different purposes, as for holding- liquids, for orna- mental uses, for preserving the ashes of the dead after cremation, and anciently for holding lots to be drawn.” The tea-urn (see Fig. 919} takes its name from its similarity in shape to the ancient Urn, and, as might be expected in these days of artistic advancement, the shape has undergone some modification, whilst retaining the original title, or its co-relative the kettle (see Fig. 920). Fig. 920. Rustic Swing-kettle or Urn with Spirit-lamp (Adams and Son). Urns were at one time very generally used to gi-ace the tea-table; but modern fashions have to some extent dis- carded them—a fact that does not lend itself to the commendation of modern wisdom. With the loss of the genial Urn the tea-table is deprived of one of its greatest attractions. USQUEBAUGH. —The literal meaning for this term is water of life, of which whisky is the corruption. The word is of Irish or Gaelic origin. UTENSILS.—See Culinary Utensils. VACHEBIN.—The name of a French paste which is described by Dubois, and used chiefly to make a case for holding chantilly cream. It is compounded of ground or pounded almonds, caster sugar, and whites of eggs. The following receipt is for Vacherin a la Chantilly.—Prepare a paste by beating up lib. of ground almonds and 111), of caster or icing sugar with as many whites of eggs as are necessary to bind it and give it a firm consistence. Cut off about three-quarters of the paste, and roll it out into a flat strip long enough and deep enough to go round the outside of a charlotte-mould, so as to cover the side, and overlap at the extremities of the strip. Fasten the ends together with strong icing sugar, and then, after trimming the edges all round to the exact size of the mould, set it in a quick oven, and bake till lightly browned. In order to keep the ends together whilst the baking is going on, tie round the strip a piece of broad tape, or string, removing it as soon as the join is strong. Next form a flat round with the remainder of the paste, and lay that on the top of the strip (see Fig. 921) after it has been removed from the mould. Stick the bottom on the V acheriu—continued. strip with icing, and then put it in the oven again to set and brown slightly. When the case is strong and cold, turn it up and set it on a glass dish, with a lace-paper under- Fig. 921 Vacherin Paste Case. neath, and then proceed to decorate the outside of the case with tinted meringue applied through a cornet, halves of candied cherries, and beads of coloured meringue, as fancy dictates. When quite ready, put the case in a drying stove until the meringue is well set. Before serving, fill this pretty case with heaped up whipped vanilla cream (chan- tilly), and sprinkle some variegated nonpareils over the cream (see Fig. 922). The base may be garnished with macaroons, or other sweet biscuits, and the Vacherin may be tinted pale rose, cream, or lavender. VALENTIA ALMONDS.—See Almonds. VALGIANO.—A Tuscany wine not much known in this country. VALOIS SAUCE.—See Sauces. VANILLA (Fr. Vanille ; Ger. Banille; Sp. Vain ilia).— The Vanilla-plant (Vanilla aromatica) from which the pods used in flavouring are obtained, belongs to the orchid tribe, and is said to be the only one of that great family which is of any economical value. It is a climbing parasitical plant, the flowers (see A, Fig. 923) of which are thick, fleshy, and dull-coloured. The pod, bean, or fruit is very long and thin (see B, Fig. 923), exhaling a powerful odour, which has an intoxicating effect upon those who climb the trees to gather it. A section of it shows it to be triangular in shape, and evenly marked throughout the pulpy interior. When ripe the fruit For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. 2 x