THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 719 for details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. patties on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of clear gravy. (2) Make some puff paste, give it four turns, set it on ice to harden, and then roll it out twice, leaving it the last time about lin. thick. Keep the paste in the ice-chest till very firm, then put it on the paste-hoard or table, and roll it to fin. in thickness. Cut the paste into rounds with a tin cutter 3 lin. in diameter. Dip a tin cutter 2i-in. in diameter in hot water, and with it cut about two-thirds through each of the rounds of paste. Put them in pans, and bake them in a very quick oven for ten minutes; then cool the oven a little and bake them for twenty minutes longer. Put about fib. of cooked Veal, cut into small pieces, in a saucepan with 4 pint of white sauce and 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and stir the mixture over the fire till boiling. When the patties are cooked, take them out of the oven, lift off the pieces that were cut out, and scoop out the uncooked paste underneath with a teaspoon; then fill the hollow with the prepared Veal, and put the covers on again. Arrange the patties on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish them with parsley, and serve. (3) Make some puff paste, and line some patty-tins with it. Have some cold roasted Veal very finely minced with half the quantity of ham also finely minced, season with a little grated lemon-peel, grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper, and moisten with some Veal gravy and a little milk. Put 1 table-spoonful of this into each of the paste-lined tins, and bake in a quick oven. Serve hot in the tins they were baked in ; or, if preferred cold, take them out of the tins, arrange them on a dish, and garnish with parsley. Veal Paupiettes.—(1) Cut some thin cutlets from a fillet of Vea1, and beat them flat and even. Mince a little Veal very fine, mix it with some of the kidney-fat chopped very fine, and six anchovies chopped fine also, and adding a little salt, powdered mace, and ginger. Put this mixture over the slices of Veal, and roll them up. Beat up an egg, dip the rolled slices into it, and then dip them into sifted breadcrumbs. Let them stand for a-quarter-of-an- liour or twenty minutes, then egg them again, roll them in breadcrumbs, and fry them a golden brown in boiling lard or clarified dripping. Stew them then in some rich gravy with | pint of white wine and a little walnut pickle. (2) Cut some thin slices of Veal off a fillet, flatten them with the blade of a knife, and roll them in beaten egg. Prepare some Veal forcemeat, put a layer of it on each slice, roll them up, anil tie them round with twine. Brush the rolls of Veal over with beaten egg, and coat them thickly with breadcrumbs. Butter a baking-dish, put in the meat, and bake for lialf-an hour in a quick oven. Put 1 pint of rich gravy in a saucepan with a few washed truffles and pickled mushrooms, and boil it. Put the meat on a hot dish, garnish it with fried Veal forcemeat balls, pour the sauce and mushrooms over it, and serve. Veal Pie.—(1) Remove the sinewy skin from about 41b. of the cushion of Veal, cut half of the meat into rather large square-shaped pieces, and chop the remainder. Mix with the chopped meat a little more than its quantity of chopped fresh bacon and 4 table-spoonfuls of lean cooked ham, also finely chopped. Lard the large pieces of Veal with fillets of raw ham and bacon, and season with spices. Put Jib. of chopped bacon-fat into a stewpan, and melt it; then put in the larded cakes, and fry them for about fifteen minutes over a quick fire. Pour in with the pieces of meat 1 wineglassful of white wine, and boil it till reduced ; then turn the meat into a basin, and leave it till cold. Butter the inside of an oblong-shaped cold pie-mould, line it with short-paste, then spread a layer of the minced meat at the bottom and round the sides. Fill the pie with the larded Veal and some boiled bacon cut into moderate-sized pieces, raising it to a dome. Cover the meat with a thin flat of short-paste, trimming it evenly round the edges and pressing them together, then stick a flat of puff paste on the top, notch it, and brush it over with beaten egg. Put the pie in a rather slack oven, and lialf-an-hour later cover it with a sheet of Veal—continued. buttered paper, baking it for two hours in all. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven, pour in through the top a little more than 1 teacupful of liquid aspic jelly, and leave it till cold. This pie is better when served on the following day. (2) Chop and pound in a mortar 41b. each of minion fillet of Veal and chicken-flesh, and mix with them one beaten egg. Pick and chop 21b. of Veal kidney-suet, put it in a mortar, and pound it; then mix it with the meat, and pound all to a paste. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of c'houx- paste, without sugar, and another egg. When quite smooth, take the mixture out of the mortar, and keep it on ice for an hour. Take two-thirds of the forcemeat, and with two table spoons mould it into quenelles. Poach the quenelles in boiling salted water, and when set chain them on a cloth. Butter a hot pie mould, line it with short-paste, then coat the paste with a thin layer of the forcemeat. Arrange the quenelles in the hollow of the mould in rings, alternating each of them with a slice of raw peeled truffle. Cut some sweetbreads into scollops, fry them lightly in butter, then fill the mould with them and some sliced truffles, building them in a dome-like fashion. Put a few thin slices of bacon on the top, then cover the pie with a round of short-paste, trim it off at the edges, moisten them with a little water, and pinch them together. Make a slight incision in the centre of the pie, ornament the top with leaves cut out of paste, brush it over with beaten egg, and put it in a moderate oven to bake for an hour. When cooked, take the pie out of the mould, slip it on-to a hot dish, lift the cover off, take out the bacon, pour in a small quantity of Madeira wine, replace the cover, and serve. (3) Trim the skin and sinewy part off lib. of lean Veal, chop the meat, put it into a mortar with 21b. of chopped Veal kidney-suet, and pound them ; then season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and stir in a beaten egg. Set the forcemeat on ice for lialf-an-hour. Prepare a short- paste with fib. of butter and 2lb. of flour. Butter the inside of a hot pie-mould, stand it on a baking-sheet, and line it with the paste. Mix \ teacupful of chopped claves with the forcemeat, then fill the mould with it, building it to a dome; put a flat of paste on the top, trim it off round the edges, moisten them with a little water, and press them together. Brush the pie over with a paste brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake it in a moderate oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, take the mould off the pie and slip it on to a hot dish ; with a small knife make a hole in the centre, and remove two- thirds of the forcemeat, thus leaving a cavity, which fill with a ragout of chopped cooked lamb’s sweetbreads and mushrooms that have been mixed with a little reduced brown sauce. Put the paste cover on the pie again, and serve. (4) Lay in the bottom of a pie-dish some thin slices of Veal, sprinkle them with a little chopped parsley, chopped sage and thyme, a little salt and white pepper, and a very little cayenne ; over this lay a few slices of ham and a few forcemeat balls, then some thin slices of Veal, which season as before, then slices of ham and forcemeat balls, and so on till the dish is almost full; then add the yolks of five hard-boiled eggs and some good Veal stock. Make some light puff paste, lay a strip of it round the edge of the pie-dish, and cover the pie with puff paste,