686 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, (be., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. hot ashes on the lid, and braise it over a slow lire till well glazed. Cut some mushrooms into slices, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them till the moisture has reduced somewhat. Season the mushrooms with pepper and salt, put them in 1 pint of reduced bechamel sauce, and boil for two or three minutes, then move them to the side. When the Veal is done, take it out of the braising-pan and cut it into thin slices. Line the bottom of a deep dish with the mushroom mixture, then arrange the slices of meat on it, putting them into shape again, alternating each slice with a small quantity of the mush- room mixture, and cover the top also with the same mixture. Put the dish in the oven till the surface of its con- tents is nicely coloured, then take it out, garnish with croquettes of potatoes, and serve. Braised Stuffed Loin of Veal with Aspic.—Chop and pound together an equal quantity of fillet of Veal and loin of bacon, season them with spices and salt, and mix with them two calf’s kidneys and an equal quantity of truffles and tongue, all cut into small cubes or squares. Bone a loin of Veal, cover it with the forcemeat, fold the sides over, and tie it with string to keep it in shape. Wrap the meat in a cloth, put it in a braising-stewpan, and cover with mirepoix. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and keep the contents simmering gently for four hours. At the end of that time, move the stewpan from the stove, leave the Veal in the liquor till cooled, then drain it, take the cloth off, wrap it in another clean one, and press it between two dishes with a heavy Fig. 935. Braised Stuffed Loin of Veal with Aspic. weight on the top till quite cold. Prepare a rice socle on a dish, and coat it with Montpellier butter. Untie the meat, trim it, and brush over with meat-glaze ; put it on the rice socle, garnish with croutons and chopped aspic jelly and parsley (see Fig. 935), and serve. Braised Tendons of Veal.—Cut the tendons into equal sized pieces, put them in a stewpan with some sliced carrots, turnips, onions, celery, a little parsley, some cloves, and a feAv peppercorns. Cover them well with stock or water, and put in a lump of salt. Place the lid on the stewpan with some hot coals on the top, and braise the contents over a slow fire for three or four hours. When the tendons are rather soft and almost transparent, they will lie cooked. Drain them, and press them between two plates till nearly cold. Skim and strain the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve, put it in another saucepan, and boil quickly till reduced to glaze. Trim the tendons, put them in the glaze, and make hot. Arrange the tendons in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with spinach prepared as for garnish, pour the glaze round, and serve. Breast of Veal a la Poulette.—Cut a breast of Veal into small equal-sized pieces, blanch them, put them in a saucepan with a little of the water in which they were blanched, and warm over the fire. Sift in a small quan- tity of flour, stir it till smooth, then put in a lump of butter, some carrots, mushrooms, laurel-leaves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and some salt and pepper. Put the lid on the saucepan and cook the contents slowly till nearly done, then put in some young white onions and finish cooking. When cooked, put the pieces of Veal on a hot dish, and keep it near the fire while the sauce is being- prepared. Strain the cooking liquor through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, squeeze in a little lemon juice, anil pour in the beaten yolks of three eggs; stir it "Veal—continued. over the fire till thick, not letting it boil, then pour it over the Veal, and serve. Breast of Veal en Ragoftt.—(1) Roast abreast of Veal in front of a clear fire till about half cooked, then bone it, and put it into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped truffles and lqt. of Veal broth. Stew the Veal gently by the side of the fire till tender, then put in two dozen oysters, six each of pickled mushrooms and pickled cucumbers cut into small pieces, and the yolks of three hard- boiled eggs. Cut the sweetbread of the Veal into slices, season them with salt and pepper, put them in a frying- pan with a lump of butter, and fry till nicely browned on both sides. When cooked, put the Veal on a hot dish, and place the slices of sweetbread round it. Thicken the gravy with a little flour and butter that have been worked together, pour it over the Veal, garnish with Veal force- meat balls, and serve. (2) Fry the centre part of a breast of Veal, after the two ends have been cut off, in butter till it is nicely browned. Put it into a stewpan with a few small bits of bacon nicely trimmed and some stock. Cover the stewpan closely, and let the Veal stew till it is almost done ; then take the Veal out of the stewpan, and strain the gravy. Skim oft' all the fat, and put the gravy, or as much of it as will be required, into the stewpan again ; thicken with flour and butter, turn the Veal into it again, and let it simmer till quite done. Take it out of the gravy, lay it on a hot dish, stir into the gravy a flavouring of lemon- juice or lemon pickle and a little walnut and mushroom ketchup, or a small quantity of Worcestershire sauce, pour it hot over the Veal, and serve. Breast of Veal Glace.—Bone the Veal within 2in. of the gristle, and trim it to as square a shape as possible; tie down the meat so that it may look very plump, and cut the soft bones beyond the gristle. Place two or three rashers of bacon in a stewpan, put in the Veal, with three carrots, three onions, two bay-leaves, and two or three cloves, moisten with 1 breakfast-cupful of stock, cover with two or three more rashers of bacon and a sheet of buttered paper, and place it over the fire. When the liquor boils, move the pan to the side of the fire, put the lid on with some hot cinders on the top, and cook the contents gently. When the meat is about three-parts cooked, take out the carrots, &c., and reduce the liquor to a glaze, turning the meat that it may be equally glazed. When cooked, place the meat on a hot dish, and pour into the saucepan 1 breakfast-cupful of Spanish sauce and h teacupful of stock, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Pour the sauce over the meat, and serve. Brisotin of Veal.—Cut up six pieces of lean Veal about j-in. thick and Gin. in length. Flatten them with a cutlet- bat, and season with l pinch of salt and h pinch of pepper. Lard the centres, using a small larding-neeille, with strips of fat pork or bacon. Cover with any kind of forcemeat, roll them up, and tie with string. Put them into a deep saute-pan with a very little fat, one sliced carrot, and one medium-sized sliced onion. Cover the whole with a piece of buttered paper, set it on the fire, and let it take a good golden colour for about five minutes. Moisten with \ pint of white broth, remove the saucepan to the oven, and cook slowly for twenty minutes, hasting it occasionally. Turn the Avhole carefully out on to a dish, and serve at once. Brisotin of Veal d l'Ecarlate.—This is prepared the same as for Brisotin of Veal, adding i pint of hot ecarlate sauce before serving. Brisotin of Veal a la Nantaise.—The same as for Brisotin of Veal, placing six stuffed lettuce-heads round the dish for garnish, and pouring over 1 gill of hot Madeira sauce. Broiled Breast of Veal.—Half roast the breast, score it, and sprinkle it well with a few sweet herbs and parsley chopped very fine, some salt and pepper, and then broil it over a clear fire. For the sauce take some gravy, put it into a saucepan over the fire with an onion, an anchovy, a little mace, some grated nutmeg, and a little