723 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Veal—continued. cake spatula. Serve hot, with a little good white gravy in a small tureen. Vol-au-Vent of Veal.—Mince some cold Veal, season it to taste with grated lemon-peel, chopped parsley, salt, anil pepper, put it into a stewpan with a moderate quantity of white sauce, and stir it over the fire until hot. Make sufficient puff paste, roll it out to about lin. in thickness, and cut it to a round shape with a large tin cutter; then with a smaller cutter cut a circle half way through the paste, brush round the edge of the paste with a paste- brush dipped in beaten egg, and put it into a brisk oven until well risen and nicely browned. When cooked, lift the paste where it is marked round the circle, and scoop out some of the soft part, making a hollow deep enough to hold the minced Veal. Fill the vol-au-vent with the mince, put it on a hot dish on which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. VEGETABLES (Fr. Legumes; Ger. Gemuse; Ital. Vegetabili; Spi. Vegetables).—A great trouble seems to exist amongst cooks and others in their efforts to define the distinction between Vegetables and fruit. In a culinary sense the distinction is somewhat simplified, the term Vegetables being generally applied to those articles which have grown in or about the earth, and are cooked, or dressed uncooked, as savouries; fruits, on the contrary, are usually associated with sweets. Literally, Fig. 970. Vegetable-washer (A. B. Marshall). the term Vegetables, derived from the Latin Vegetare, would include all things that grow from the earth as members of the Vegetable Kingdom; but in a more limited sense, the term Vegetables might be applied to all those edible growths that are included amongst our Vegetable foods without being connected with the organs of Vegetable reproduction, which are known, correctly speak- ing, as fruits. This difficulty of distinction is very patent when we remember that some fruits arc in a culinary sense styled Vegetables, amongst those being tomatoes, vegetable marrows, cucumbers, peas, beans, &c. Then, again, the stalks of leaves known as rhubarb, are esteemed as fruit amongst cooks. Nuts, Fig. 971. Vegetable-peeler (Benham and Froud). again, which are most correctly speaking the fruit of the tree which bears them, are differently designated, when they are numbered amongst the dishes of a dessert. They are not Vegetables, they are nuts. Vegetables—continued. From the foregoing it will be understood that, from a culinary point of view, it would be impossible to draw any hard-and-fast line as to what should be called Vegetables and what fruit. Cooley tells us that “Vegetables are organic beings, which are distinguished from animals by a number of characteristics, but, like them, are composed of certain Fig. 972. Vegetable Scoops or Spoons (A. Lyon). proximate principles or compounds, which possess a high degree of scientific interest, and in many cases are invaluable to man. Among the most important of these are: albumen, gluten, gum, lignin, starch, sugar, tannin, wax, the fixed and volatile oils, the resins and gum-resins, the alkaloids, and innumerable forms cf extractive matter.” Kettner supplies us with some very interesting observa- tions on the subject as applied to the use of Vegetables for food in this country. He has written: There are no finer Vegetables to be found anywhere than in Eng- land; and the English do not know how to eat them. The weak point of an English dinner is always the Vege- tables. Some persons might fix upon the made dishes as Fig. 973. Vegetables in Fancy Shapes. most wanting, but this would be wrong, seeing that we could have a very good dinner without a single made dish. As far as animal food can go there are some dinners quite perfect, with a good soup, a little plain boiled fish, and roast meat or game; but the dinner fails because the Vegetables are at fault.” “I have observed,” says Walker, in a book written by him, called the “Original,” “ that whenever the Vege- tables are distinguished for their excellence the dinner is always particularly enjoyed; and if they were served with each dish, as they are most appropriate and fresh from the dressing, it would be a great improvement on the present style. With some meats something of the kind is practised, as peas with duck, and beans with bacon, and such combinations are generally favourites, but the system might be much extended, and with great advantage. With respect to variety of Vegetables, I think the same rule applies as to other dishes. I would not have many sorts For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 a 2