796 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, *£c., referred to, see under their special heads. Woodcocks—continued. mixture to taste, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Turn the puree into a saucepan and stir it over the fire till slightly warmed, then take it off and mix in the beaten yolks of six and the well whipped whites of four eggs. Butter some small but rather deep paper souffle cases, stand them on a buttered baking-sheet, and fill them with the above mixture. Put the souffles in a rather slack oven, and bake them for eighteen or twenty minutes. When cooked, take the souffles out of the oven, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish paper that has been placed on a hot dish, and serve without delay. Woodcock-and-Truffle Souffles.—Separate the flesh from the bones of some cold roasted Woodcocks, trim off the skin and sinewy parts, and put the flesh into a mortar with 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of cold cooked rice, pound them, put in 2 table-spoonfuls of sauce, and pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve. With the bones and the trimmings prepare a small quantity of broth, pass it through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, thicken it with a few table-spoonfuls of sauce, and boil till reduced to half glaze. Boil 1 teacupful of chopped truffles in a little Madeira wine, and when cooked add them to the Wood- cock puree. Mix the sauce, the beaten yolks of four eggs, and a small piece of butter with the puree. Work the ingredients well, season the mixture with salt and pepper, and beat in the well-whipped whites of six eggs. Butter a souffle pan, pour in the souffle, and bake it in a rather slack oven for half an-hour. When cooked, stand the souffle in the mould on a dish, and serve without delay. WOOD-HENS.—Although it is the opinion of gourmets that the female bird of this particular family is not so good or well-flavoured as the male, nevertheless it can be prepared in many ways so that it would be almost impossible to distinguish one from the other. The mode of preparing and trussing is the same in both cases. Broiled Wood-hens.—Draw the birds, and truss them with their legs tucked into the body ; singe, and split them into halves lengthwise, beat each piece lightly, season and brush them over with clarified butter, and coat them with breadcrumbs. Grease a gridiron, heat it, put the pieces of Wood-hen on it, and broil over a clear but moderate fire ; turn them when brown on one side and brown on the other. When cooked, arrange the Wood-hens on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper that has been placed on a hot dish, garnish them with parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of cold tartar sauce. Wood-hens a la Husse.—Singe and truss the birds as for roasting (French style), season with salt and pepper, put them into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them over a moderate fire till nicely browned. Pour a small quantity of cream over the birds, and finish cooking them, basting frequently with it. When cooked, drain the Wood-hens and arrange them on a dish that will bear the heat of the oven. Mix about 1 breakfast cupful of bechamel sauce with the cooking sauce of the birds, and Fig. 1080. Wood hens a la Russe. boil it till reduced to a thick consistency. Pour the sauce over the birds, cover them thickly with breadcrumbs, and put the dish in the oven. When tire breadcrumbs are browned, take the dish out of the oven, garnish with watercress and slices of lemon (see Fig. 1080), and serve. Wood-hen Cake or Pain a la Suedoise.—Cut the fillets off the breast of some Wood liens, trim, chop, and pound them to a paste in a mortar. Mix with the pounded Wood-hens—con tinned. meat half its quantity of butter and a few beaten yolks of eggs, season the mixture, pass it through a fine hair sieve into a basin, work it with a wooden spoon for a few minutes, then mix in the well whipped white of an egg and a table-spoonful of whipped cream. Butter a timbale mould, fill it with the mixture, stand the mould in a stewpan, surround it with boiling water, and steam it for half an hour. Reduce some bechamel sauce with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of meat glaze. Turn the pain out of the mould on to a hot dish, pour a small quantity of the sauce over it, and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat. Wood-hen Cake or Pain with Truffles.—Cut the fillets off some cold cooked Wood liens, trim, chop, and put them in a mortar with some rice panada and some butter, using lOoz. each of panada and butter to every pound of meat. Pound the above ingredients till smooth, season the mixture, and mix in gradually a sufficient quantity of beaten yolks of eggs and cream to bring it to the consistency of quenelle forcemeat. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and try the consistency by poaching a small quantity in boiling water. Butter the interior of a plain cylindric mould, fill it with the forcemeat, put it in a saucepan, surround it with boiling water, and steam it for half an-hour. Cover a tin column, the same height as the mould, with paste, glaze it with beaten egg, and bake. Fix the column in the centre of a dish, wipe the mould, turn it on to a dish, fix the column in the cylinder, and remove the mould. Fix a small vase or cup in the centre, fill it with some turned truffles, and garnish the bottom of the pain with a circle of cocks’ combs and truffles, arranging them in alternate order. Serve the pain with a sauceboatful of veloute sauce that has been reduced with some essence of truffles. Wood-ken Cutlets a la Pojarski.—These cutlets took their name from a landlord of a restaurant near St. Petersburg, who obtained great renown from his method of cooking them. Cut the meat off the breasts of some Wood-hens, trim off the skin and sinews, chop and pound it in a mortar, adding gradually in small pieces a quarter of their quantity of butter, and seasoning to taste with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Divide the mixture into small equal portions, shape them on a floured table like cutlets, and stick a small piece of well-cleaned bone at the pointed end of each. Brush the cutlets over with beaten egg, and coat them thickly with breadcrumbs. Put a lump of butter into a frying pan, warm it, then put in the cutlets, and fry them on both sides till nicely browned. When cooked, arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, pom- over the remainder of the butter in which they were fried, and serve. Wood-hen Pie.—(1) Skin, bone, and remove the fillets of four Wood-hens, divide each of the fillets into halves, put them in a deep dish with lib. of raw ham that has been washed and cut into squares, season them, and baste with a small quantity of cognac. Skin and chop the flesh off the thighs, put it in a mortar with the chopped fillets of two fowls, and pound them. Chop and pound an equal quantity of lean veal and double the quantity of fresh bacon, then mix the pounded meats together. Season the forcemeat well, and mix with it a few table spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms that have been cooked with a teaspoonful of chopped onions. Butter a cold pie-mould, stand it on a baking sheet that has been covered with a sheet of paper, and line it with short paste. Spread a layer of the forcemeat all round the bottom and sides of the pie mould, then fill it with alternate layers of the soaked fillets, ham, and forcemeat, building it in a dome shape and raising it above the rim of the mould. Put some thin slices of fat bacon on the top, then a round of paste, damp the edges, and press them together. Put another flat round of paste on the top, slightly damping it underneath to make it adhere, and with a knife draw a scroll or fancy design on the paste, making a hole in the centre. Brush the pie over with beaten egg, bake it for two hours in a moderate oven, covering it with paper