797 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d'C., referred to, see under their special heads. Wood-hens—continued. when it begins to take colour. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven, leave it for half an-hour, then filter in through the top a breakfast cupful of melted aspic jelly, in which has been mixed a small quantity of wine and a small quantity of either gravy or meat glaze. When quite cold, take the pie out of the mould, put it on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, and serve. The backs and bones of these birds should be used as little as possible, on account of their bitterness. (2) Cold.—Cut the flesh from the bones of some Wood- hens—say three, for instance—trim off the skin and sinews, put it in a basin with lib. of coarsely chopped raw truffles, and baste them with about 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira. Melt some fat bacon in a frying-pan, then put in the livers and entrails of the Wood-hens with some raw poultry livers, and fry them over a quick fire. When cooked, season the livers, &c., well, leave them till cool, then pound in a mortar and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Cut the meat off four hares’ legs into small pieces, trimming off at the same time all the skin and tough parts, fry it with some bacon, season it with salt and pepper, allow it to cool, then pound and pass it through a fine hair sieve, mixing it with the pounded livers. Chop some equal quantities of lean veal, bacon, and fresh pork, mix them together, pound in a mortar, and pass the mince through a fine hair sieve, seasoning it with pepper and salt, and mix in the above pounded meats with it. Butter a low-shaped channeled pie-mould, set it on a baking-sheet that has been covered with buttered paper, line the mould with a short crust, then coat the inside with some of the pounded mixture, till it with alternate layers of the Wood-hen and truffles that have been basted with Madeira, and layers of the force- meat, building it to a dome. Cover the pie with a flat of paste, trim off the edges, moistening and pinching them together. Roll out the trimmings of the paste, and cut some fancy leaves out of it, make a hole in the top of the pie, arrange the leaves round it, brushing them over with a paste brush dipped in water to make them adhere, then with a sharp-pointed knife sketch a design all round. Brush the pie all over with beaten egg, and bake it in a moderate oven for two hours, covering it after it has been in ten minutes with a sheet of paper. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven, leave it till half cold, then pour in through a small funnel, fixed in the hole at the top, 1 teacupful of liquid aspic jelly that has been mixed with a small quantity of Madeira. Pick out the neatest looking of the Wood-hens’ heads, having the plumage on it, trim off the neck, and fix a small block of carrot in the head to keep it up firmly. When cold, put the pie on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper that has been placed on a round dish, fix the head in the opening at the top of the pie, and serve when ready. WOOD-PIGEONS.—A species of wild bird, closely allied in every respect to the domestic pigeon. Receipts for its cooking will be found under Pigeons. WOODRUFF.—See Asperule Odorante. WOOD-SORREL.—This plant (Oxalis acetosella) is now but little used in cookery, although there can be little doubt that it gave the name to the celebrated soup known as Julienne, and this by a most remarkable metamorphosis of the name by which it was called throughout Europe. In Ireland it is known as the shamrock, which tradition tells us was made use of by St. Patrick as an example of the Trinity, or three in one. This produced for it the popular name of Allelujah. In Italy this word was corrupted into Lujula; thence in Southern Italy it became Giuliola; and in France it appeared as Julienne. WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE.-See Sauces. WORMWOOD (TV. Absinthe ; Ger. Wermuth ; Hal. Assenzio ; Sp. Axenjo).—A plant (Artemisia Absinthium) closely allied to southernwood and tarragon. It was at one time largely cultivated in this country for the purpose of producing bitters for beer. Its use for this Wormwood—continued. purpose was discontinued by Act of Parliament, but as its bitter principle was believed to possess tonic and other medicinal properties, it has been used by conti- nental liqueur makers in the production of absinthe, vermouth, and a species of bitters. WORT.—The name given by brewers to a malt liquid before its conversion into beer by fermentation. WREXHAM PUDDING.—-See Puddings. YAMS (TV. Ignames; Ger. Yamskartoffeln).—Strictly speaking, this is an American root, consisting of numerous Fig. 1081. Common Yams. species of the Dioscorea family. Those best known to us (Dioscorea sativa) are large, fleshy, tuberous roots (see Fig. 1081), resembling Jerusalem artichokes in peculiarity Fig. 1082. Chinese or Fig. 1083. Sweet Potato. Japanese Yams. of irregular growth, and potatoes in constitution. Lindley informs us that the Yams most commonly