776 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, •fee., referred to, see under their special heads. Wild Duck —continued. I pint of brown sauce, and add the finely-shred rind of half an orange and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. Boil the sauce for a few minutes longer, then mix with it 1 teaspoonful of orange-juice. Put the fillets on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Hashed Wild Duck.—(1) Cut up a Wild Duck into pieces, put them in a stewpan, cover with a rich gravy, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, add 1 wineglassful of claret, and season with mixed spice, salt, and cayenne, adding sufficient breadcrumbs to make it thick. Stand the pan at the side of the fire till it begins to bubble, then dish up, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (2) Roast a Wild Duck, but let it be rather underdone; take off the skin while it is hot. Cut into small pieces a few shallots, two or three slices each of ham and sliced carrots, and put these in a stewpan with the skin of the Duck, a piece of butter, two or three sprigs of parsley and thyme, a bay-leaf, a few blades of mace, four cloves, and six peppercorns, and fry till the ham has browned a little; dredge in a little Hour and fry till the Hour is done, add 1 wineglassful of white wine and 1 teacupful of rich brown gravy, and season with salt and pepper. Put in all the skin and trimmings of the Duck and let them stew. Skim off the fat and reduce the sauce; when this is done, strain it, and put in the pieces of Duck. When thoroughly hot through, dish up, squeeze over a little lemon juice, garnish with croutons of fried bread, sprinkle a dust of cayenne pepper over, and serve. Roasted Wild Duck.—(1) Singe, draw, and prepare a Wild Duck, and roast it before a very brisk fire for twenty Fig. 1058. Roasted Wild Duck. minutes. When done, dish on a bed of watercress (see Fig. 1058), and serve with a rich brown gravy well flavoured with lemon-juice. (2) Prepare and truss a Wild Duck, and roast it in front of a brisk fire, basting frequently with butter. Just before taking it up, dredge with Hour, and baste it to a nice brown. Dish the Duck, which should be rather underdone than otherwise, and pour a rich brown gravy over it. Put in a sauceboat 2 wineglassfuls of port wine, a few drops of chilli vinegar, the juice of one lemon, | saltspoonful of salt, and boil gently. Serve this sauce with the Duck. (3) Prepare a Wild Duck, cut off the head and neck, scald the feet, and truss them with the Duck in the same way as a fowl. Put the Duck close to a sharp fire for a few minutes to brown, then move it a little way back, and baste continually with butter till done; just before it is taken up dredge with Hour. In the mean- time soak the necks and gizzards in 1 pint of water over the fire till the water is reduced to h pint, or in place of water use \ pint of veal gravy; put into this a slice of lemon or orange, one onion, three or four leaves of basil, a blade of mace, a little pepper and salt, and boil together for a few minutes, then strain; add 1 wineglassful of port wine and the juice of a lemon or orange. Dish the Ducks when done, pour the gravy over them, and serve. (4) Pluck and singe a Wild Duck, wipe it with a wet towel, draw it carefully, and skewer the legs and wings ; then stuff it with a whole peeled onion, plenty of salt and pepper, and 1 wineglassful of claret, and lay it carefully in a roasting-pan just large enough to hold it. If the Duck is of medium size, bake it in a hot oven or roast it before the fire for fifteen minutes; if large, let it cook twenty minutes. Serve hot with the gravy it yields in cooking, and red-currant jelly on a separate dish. (5) Singe, pluck, and draw a Wild Duck, wash it in | Wild Duck —continued. a little water, and wipe it perfectly dry. Stuff it with some good bread stuffing, chop off the wings at the first joint, which must be tied tightly to the side of the bird, tie down the legs also, put the Duck in a baking- dish, and bake in a hot oven for from thirty to forty minutes according to the size of the Duck, basting fre- quently. Put it on a dish, and serve with apple sauce. Care must be taken that the oven is quite hot when the bird is first put in, or else all the gravy oozes out and the flavour is spoilt. (0) Pick, singe, and draw two \\ ild Ducks, wipe them well both outside and inside, season them inwardly with salt, run in the heads from the end of the neck to the back, truss them, and place them in a roasting pan. Sprinkle over a little salt, put them in a brisk oven, and roast for eighteen minutes. Place them on a hot dish, untruss them, pour 2 table-spoonfuls of white broth into each Duck, and serve. Slices of fried hominy pudding as a garnish, and red-currant jelly in a dish, should accompany them. Salmis of Wild Duck. -(1) Cut off all the flesh from two roasted \\ ild Ducks, skin and trim them, and put the meat in a stewpan. Put the bones, trimmings, and skin, with four shallots, four onions (one stuck with four cloves), one faggot, and half a bottle of claret in another stewpan, •and boil until the liquor is reduced to half its original quantity; then add I h pints of Spanish sauce, and simmer for twenty minutes. Skim, strain through a conical strainer into another stewpan, and boil till the sauce coats the spoon. Pour one fourth of this over the pieces of Duck, and set the pan over the fire till they are hot through, but do not boil them. Dish the Duck, pour over the remainder of the sauce, garnish with crofttons of fried bread, and serve. (2) Roast lightly two Wild Ducks, and when cold cut them into joints and skin them; take out the worst pieces, and with the skin put them in a stewpan; add three onions, sliced and fried in butter a light brown, four peppercorns, two clo ves, two shallots, 2oz. of sugar, 4 salt- spoonful of salt, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of plain beef gravy, and 1 breakfast-cupful of Bordeaux wine. Let this sim- mer at the side of a good fire till reduced to about 1 pint. Work together loz. each of flour and butter, skim the fat off the gravy, and stir in gradually while boiling the flour and butter. Put the stewpan over a sharp fire, keeping the lid off, and reduce to l pint, then add the pieces of Duck. When hot through, dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (3) Roast a Wild Duck, and when cold cut the meat up into small pieces. Put the bones and trimmings of the bird into a stewpan, with two finely-minced shallots and a sufficient quantity of brown stock to make the gravy, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil gently for half-an hour. Strain the gravy through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, and mix with it 2 wineglassfuls of port wine, 1 table-spoonful each of mushroom ketchup and Worcestershire sauce, and 1 teaspoonful of chilli vinegar. Put the pieces of cold Duck in with the gravy, and boil gently for fifteen minutes or so until quite hot. Mix 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice and a small quantity of cayenne pepper with the salmis, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Salmis of Wild Duck -with Mushrooms.—Prepare the birds and half roast them. When they are cold, trim off the skin, and cut them into nice-sized pieces; put the trimmings of the birds with the livers and gizzards into a stewpan with two chopped shallots, some brown stock, and salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste. When the stock boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and keep it simmering for an hour. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until mixed but not browned, then strain in the above gravy and stir it until somewhat thickened. Put the game into the gravy with h pint of button-mushrooms, and keep them simmering gently at the side of the fire until very hot. Turn the salmis on to a hot dish, and garnish with crofttons of fried bread or sippets of toast and slices of lemon. Serve the salmis with as little delay as possible.