679 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfcc., referred to, see under their special heads. V anilla—continued. against the side of the saucepan. Add 1 teaspoonful of Vanilla extract with the last egg. The more the paste is beaten, the more the puffs will expand in the frying-fat. Half fill the saucepan with hot lard. Drop in pieces of the batter about as large as eggs, and watch them swell and expand in the hot lard and become hollow and light. Only four or five at a time can be fried, because they need a lot of room. The fritters being slightly sweet will be liable to fry too dark if the lard be made too hot, and they may be as long as five minutes in it before they begin to swell and run over. Take them out when done, and serve hot. Vanilla Jelly.—Cut two Vanilla pods into pieces, poui- over them lqt. of boiling water, and turn them into a lined pan. Steep 24oz. of gelatine in 1 pint of cold water for half-an-hour, then strain it, and pour 1 pint of boiling- water over it. Put the dissolved gelatine in the pan with the Vanilla pods, add fib. of caster sugar, the juice and finely-shred peel of two oranges and two lemons, and the shells and well-beaten whites of four eggs. Put the pan over the fire and stir the contents till boiling, then strain the mixture through a jelly-bag, repeating the operation till it runs quite clear. Decorate a mould with dried fruits or strawberries, then pour in the mixture and set it on ice till firm. Turn the jelly on to a fancy dish, and serve it. Vanilla Liqueur.—(1) Split two fresh Vanilla pods, cut them into inch lengths, and soak them for three days in h pint of the best brandy or whisky. Then boil ‘21b. of loaf sugar in 1 pint of cold water to a clear syrup, skim- ming off any scum that rises; when thick and clear, strain the spirit into it that the Vanilla has been steep- ing in, mix the syrup and spirits well together, ami bottle it in small bottles. A small quantity of this Vanilla liqueur is a nice flavouring for an effervescing drink, and it is useful as a flavouring for cakes, creams, custards, &c. (2) Put two pods of Vanilla broken up into a bottle, pour in 2qts. of proof gin, cork the bottle, and let the contents infuse for twelve or fourteen days. At the end of that time boil Hlb. of lump sugar in 3 pints of water until reduced to a clear syrup. Pour the spirit and Vanilla in with the syrup and let the whole simmer for nearly fifteen minutes. Filter the liqueur through flannel or through a jelly-bag, bottle it, cork the bottles well, and keep them in a cool dry place till required for use. Brandy may be used instead of the gin if it is preferred. Vanilla Lozenges.—Cut up four pods of Vanilla, put them into a mortar with a little sugar, and pound to a powder; sift it through a fine sieve, and mix up with 21b. more sifted sugar on a slab. Make a bay and pour in sufficient dissolved gum—that is Mb. of gum Arabic dis- solved in 1 breakfast-cupful of water—to make a stiff paste, and roll it out to about fein. in thickness. Sprinkle the surface with starch powder and caster sugar, smooth it with the palm of the hand, cut it out into lozenges, put them on wooden trays on the stove, and let them dry. Pack away in tins or boxes for use. Vanilla Pudding.—(1) Put a Vanilla pod in a mortar together with Mb- of sugar, pound them well together, then sift well. Separate the yolks and whites of nine eggs, beat the yolks well, mix them with lqt. of cream, and stir in the Vanilla sugar. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow, and mix them in lightly with the other ingredients. Butter the interior of a pudding-mould, pour in the mixture, and cover with a sheet of paper. Stand the mould in a saucepan of boiling water, and steam the pudding for a little less than an hour. In the meantime prepare the following sauce for the pudding: Put 1 breakfast-cupful of either fresh or tinned pineapple juice into a small lined saucepan with the juice of one lemon. Place the juice over the fire until boiling, then pour it slowly over 1 table spoonful of arrowroot, stirring it at the same time; return the sauce to the saucepan, and stir it over the fire until thickened. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, strain the sauce over it (see Fig. 927), and serve. Care must be Vanilla—continued. taken that the water does not enter the top of the mould while the pudding is cooking, or the pudding will be spoiled. (2) Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan with 2oz. of sugar and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour; stir in gradually £ pint of milk, flavour with a few drops of essence of Vanilla, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until thick and boiling. When cooked, turn the mixture into a basin, and continue stirring until nearly cold. Separate the whites and yolks of six eggs, beat the yolks well, and mix them in with the above ingredients; whisk the whites to a stiff' froth, and stir them in lightly at the last. Butter the interior of a fluted mould, pour in the mixture, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the contents of the mould on to a dish, and serve. (3) Stir into 1 pint of milk flavoured with a little extract of Vanilla the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar; pour the mixture into a mould, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, place the lid on with hot coals on the top, and keep it at the edge of the fire where the water will not boil. When the cream is thick, turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish, sift caster sugar over it, and glaze under a salamander; garnish with macaroons, and serve with a sauceboatful of sweet white sauce. Vanilla Sauce.—Put 1 pint of milk into a saucepan with a pod of Vanilla and loaf sugar to taste; boil it, then take the saucepan oft' the fire. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 2 teaspoonfuls of flour, and add them to the milk. Stir the sauce over a slow fire till thick, but do not let it boil. Whip the whites of the three eggs to a stiff froth with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar. Mix the froth with the sauce, and serve. Vanilla Souffle.—(1) Beat together the yolks of three eggs and 1 teacupful each of flour and caster sugar. When well mixed, stir in gradually 1 pint of fresh milk, and pass it through a fine hair sieve into a saucepan. Put about loz. of butter, a pod of Vanilla, and a little salt in with the other ingredients, and stir them over a very slow fire till thick; then move it to the side, and continue stirring for a few minutes longer. Take the pod of Vanilla out of the mixture, let it cool a little, then mix with it the beaten yolks of five eggs, a small lump of butter, and last of all the well-whipped whites of six eggs. Make some little paper cases in the shape of a long square, butter them, and nearly fill them with the mixture; it should be sufficient for eight cases. Put the souffles in a slow oven, and bake them for eighteen minutes. Serve the moment they are done. (2) Mix with 6oz. of flour, 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of Vanilla sugar, 1 pinch of salt, and H pints of cold milk. Turn the mixture into a sauce- pan, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon till boiling and smooth, then take it off. Separate the yolks from the whites of six eggs, beat the yolks, and stir them in with the above mixture ; whip the whites to a stiff froth, and stir them in also, only very lightly. Pour the mixture into a buttered dish, and bake for about twenty- five minutes. When cooked, take the souffle out of the oven, dust some caster sugar over it, and serve at once. (3) Put loz. each of butter and flour into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire till well mixed ; then put in 1 dessert-spoonful of caster sugar and 1 teacupful of milk,