TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 799 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to. see under their special heads. Yams—continued. place it over the fire, and when hot, put in the Yams, and fry them until lightly and equally browned. Drain them, arrange on a hot dish, dust them over with salt and pepper, sprinkle them with a little vinegar, and serve. Yams au Gratin.—Scrub some small Yams and boil them with their skins on; when cooked, peel, and mash them until quite smooth. Spread a layer of the mashed Yams in a baking-dish, put in two or three small bits of butter and some grated Parmesan cheese, cover with another layer of the mash, add cheese and butter as before, and so on until all is used up or the dish full, put cheese and butter over the top, brown under a hot salamander or before a clear fire, and serve. Yams a l’ltalienne.—Boil some Yams in their skins until soft and floury, then peel, and mash them well with a fork. Separate the whites and yolks of two eggs, beat the yolks in with the mashed Yams, together with 2 table-spoonfuls of thick cream and 1 table-spoonful of dissolved butter and salt. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, beat them in with the mash, and turn the whole into a buttered baking dish, roughing the top with a fork. Brown in a brisk oven. Place the tin on a hot dish, fold a napkin round it, and serve quickly. Yams a la Maitre d’Hotel.—-Cut some cold cooked Yams into rather thick slices. Dissolve about 2oz. of butter in a fiat stewpan, stir in 4 table spoonful of flour, and when smooth, mix in gradually l pint of clear broth, and con- tinue stirring over the fire until boiling. Next put in the sliced Yams with some finely-chopped parsley, salt, and pepper to taste, and toss them about for two or three minutes, then move the pan to the side of the fire. Beat the yolk of one egg with the strained juice of half a lemon and a small quantity of cold water, and stir it in with the Yams. Turn the whole on to a hot dish, and serve. Yam Balls.—Peel and boil lib. of Yams, and when cooked, drain and mash them well, and rub them through a wire sieve; then mix them up with 4 table-spoonfuls of grated ham, 2 teaspoonfuls of finely-chopped onions, a moderate quantity of chopped parsley or finely-powdered dried sweet herbs, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. Moisten the whole with the beaten yolks of two eggs. Form the Fig. 1085. Yam Balls. mixture into balls, flour or egg-and-breadcrumb them, and fry in boiling fat until nicely browned. Drain the balls, place them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, or fold a napkin boat-shaped and put them in (see Fig. 1085), and serve. Yam Cassolettes.—Peel and boil lib. of Yams, and when cooked, drain and mash them smoothly; mix with them, in moderate quantities, some powdered thyme and mace’ grated nutmeg, salt and pepper. Now add two well-beaten eggs and 1 table-spoonful of dissolved butter, and work the whole into a smooth paste, which mould into small cakes. Fry them in boiling fat until nicely browned, or they may be poached in the oven. Pile them on a ’ hot dish covered with a folded napkin or arranged as for Yam Balls (see Fig. 1085), and serve. Yam Cream.—Put the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs ilb- of caster sugar, and 1 table-spoonful of Yam flour into a stewpan; stir the mixture over a slow fire with a Yams—continued. wooden spoon, adding gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water. When the mixture has thickened and is on the point of boiling, pour it into a basin and leave it until cool. Mix 4 table spoonfuls of apricot marmalade with 1 wineglassful of rum and 4oz. of gelatine dissolved in £ pint of water, and stir it in with the above mixture. Pass the whole through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and stir it over ice until thickened; pour it into a cylinder mould and pack it in ice for an hour or two. Before serving, dip the mould in tepid water, and turn the cream on to a fancy dish. Yam Croquettes.—Peel and boil four or five small Yams, break them up, and put them into a mortar with half their weight of butter and the same quantity of powdered white sugar. Pound the mixture well and mix with it the grated peel of half a lemon, a small quantity of salt, and two well-beaten eggs. Divide the paste into small portions, which shape like corks; egg-and-breadcrumb them, leave for an hour, then egg-and-breadcrumb them again, and fry in boiling fat until nicely browned. Drain them well, arrange on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. Yam Flour.—Peel and well wash several Yams, and grate them on a coarse cheese-grater; put the flour into deep dishes with plenty of water, and let it stand twelve or fourteen hours. Next strain ott’ the water, which will carry away a portion of the fibrous matter, add more water, stirring well, then leave it for twelve hours longer. Repeat this operation until the white sediment is quite free from fibrous matter, then drain oil' all the water and leave the flour until dry. Afterwards pass it through a fine hair sieve, and keep it in well-corked bottles. It is excellent for cakes or puddings in the place of wheat flour, and as a substitute for potato-flour. Yam Fritters.—(1) Put 6 table-spoonfuls of the mash of cold boiled Yams into a basin with 4 table-spconfuls of cream, mix lightly, and pass the compound through a fine sieve; beat up the yolks of five eggs with 2oz. of powdered white sugar, stir this in with the Yam paste, and whisk the whole until creamy. Next stir in the strained juice and grated peel of half a lemon, 1 heaped table-spoonful of self-raising wheat flour, and a little grated nutmeg. Beat the whole for a few minutes longer, then stir in the well-whisked whites of five eggs. Put a large lump of lard into a deep frying-pan, place it over the fire, and when the lard is boiling, drop in table- spoonfuls of the batter. Fry the fritters until lightly browned, drain them well, and serve them piled on a hot dish with wine sauce in a tureen. (2) Scrub four or five Yams, and bake them in a brisk oven; when soft, take them out, scrape out all the pulp from the skins, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Add a third of its quantity of butter, sufficient vanilla sugar to sweeten, and the beaten yolks of seven eggs. Well mix, turn into a saucepan, and stir over a slow fire until quite smooth, then turn it on to a baking-dish and let it get cool. Then divide into equal-sized pieces, roll them into the shape of a cork, flatten them with a knife, and cut into small rounds with a tin cutter. Egg- and breadcrumb them, and fry in boiling fat until nicely browned; drain the fritters, roll them in caster sugar, put them on a napkin placed on a dish, and serve with lemon cut into half quarters. Yams en Chateau.—Mash some cold boiled Yams and mix with them some cold chopped green vegetable of any kind, adding seasoning to taste. Put a large piece of butter into a stewpan, ami when melted, stir in the above mixture and keep it over the fire until hot through. Press the mixture into a buttered mould shaped like a castle if procurable, and put it into a quick oven until nicely browned. Spiread a folded napkin over a hot dish, turn the shape out of the mould on to the napkin, and serve. Yam Omelet.—Beat four eggs with 1 teacupful of milk, add to H breakfast-cupfuls of mashed boiled Yam, and mix thoroughly. Season with salt, pepper, and powdered