TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 767 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Hc., referred to, see under their special heads. Whisky—continued. The principal seats of their manufacture are Ireland and Scotland. In the Encyclopasdia of Manufactures and Raw Materials it is stated’ that “ The difference between the Irish and Scotch varieties lies mainly in the fact that the former is distilled in the common or so-called ‘ pot-still,’ which brings over together with the spirit a variety of flavouring and other ingredients from the grain, while in Scotland nothing but Coffey’s ‘ patent still ’ is employed, the product of which is a spirit de- prived entirely of all essential oils. The Irish distillers claim a distinct advantage in the presence of fusel-oil in their produce, on the ground that if kept in wood for a certain time this oil is decomposed into a number of volatile ethers, readily recognised by their fragrant perfume, and by their pleasant exhilarating effects when consumed. They assert further that the Scotch produce, or ‘ silent spirit,’ as they agree to term it, undergoes no change on keeping, and possesses no flavour, but only the pungent penetrating odour peculiar to alcohol, and that in order to convert this silent spirit into Whisky, it has to be flavoured with different substances which have no exhilarating effects upon the system whatever, but are very injurious to the habitual consumer. Another argument advanced by the Irish distiller in favour of his own produce is that as the spirit yielded by the patent still is absolutely flavourless, the Scotch manu- facturer may, if he will, employ damaged grain, potatoes, molasses, refuse, and various other waste products to yield the silent spirit, since owing to its ‘ silence ’ there is no possibility of detecting afterwards from what source it has been obtained, and that not only are the distinctive qualities of good Whisky thereby kept out of the spirit, but that the spirit itself may also be of an inferior character. “ The ' Scotch distiller, on the other hand, affirms that Irish or ‘ pot-still ’ Whisky is less wholesome than their own produce, on account of the presence in the former of large quantities of fusel-oil. They maintain also, that patent-still Whisky does improve very much by keeping, and brings a higher price in the market when old, and they strongly repudiate the insinuation that they employ damaged or refuse materials for the production of their spirit. The product of the ‘ pot-still,’ as stated above, does not contain merely alcohol and water, but also, in intimate mixture, or in solution, other matters yielded by the grain, and either previously existing in it or formed during the processes of fermentation and distillation. These are present chiefly in the form of volatile oils and vegetable acids, and the quantity as well as their nature depend upon the quality of the grain, and the amount of care bestowed upon the fermentation and other subsequent processes. The finest Dublin Whisky, when ready, is stored in casks, at a strength of 25 per cent, over proof. During its sojourn in the cask, the re- actions which occur between the above substances and the alcohol itself, lead to the gradual formation of those fragrant volatile ethers which impart to the spirit its characteristic perfume and flavour. It attains its full maturity and highest excellence at an age of from three to five years in the wood; after this period it may be bottled and preserved for an indefinite length of time without undergoing further change.” Whisky is prepared in other countries besides Scotland and Ireland. That distilled in Kentucky, in the American county of Bourbon, from rye and Indian corn is known as Bourbon Whisky. In Burmah and Venezuela large quantities of Whisky are made, also in Prussia, France, and other European countries. The Russian spirit vodka is a species of Whisky of a very inferior character, but fiercely alcoholic. None of these can be in any way compared to the Whiskies produced at the Irish and Scotch distilleries. Genuine Whisky is prepared by first fermenting a wort until all the sugar it contains is converted into alcohol, Whisky—continued. and then distilling off the alcohol by raising the liquor to a heat sufficient to evaporate out the alcohol without converting the water into steam. Irish Whisky Julep.—Mix 1 wineglassful of syrup with double the quantity of Irish Whisky, pour it into a large glass, fill up with ice, over this arrange a few sprays of mint and slices or rings of lemon, and serve. Drink through straws. Irish Whisky Smash.—-Pour 1 wineglassful of Whisky into a half-pint glass, and mix in 1 table-spoonful of syrup; then add a few lumps of ice, give the glass a shake, fill up with more ice, place a couple of tlnn slices of lemon on the top, and drink through straws. Scotch Whisky Smash.—Mix in a small glass 1 wineglass- ful of old Scotch Whisky with 1 table-spoonful of syrup, fill up with ice, put a thin slice of lemon on top, and serve. Whisky Fizz.—(1) Mix in a small glass 1 wineglassful of Whisky and 1 teaspoonful each of lemon juice and syrup, add a few lumps of ice, pour in a bottle of soda-water, and drink while fizzing. (2) Put 1 dessert spoonful of syrup into a tumbler, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, pour in a little more than 1 wineglassful of Whisky, add a few lumps of ice, and shake them well together for five minutes. Pour oil' the liquor into a large glass, add 1 teaspoonful of curayoa, 2 drops of essence of almonds or orange, a small bottle (split) of lemonade, and drink while fizzing. (3) Put 1 wineglassful of old Whisky into a glass with a lump of ice, pour in l pint of cider, and serve. Whisky-and-Peppermint Nip.—Half fill a wineglass with peppermint cordial, and fill up with Irish Whisky. Whisky Punch.—(1) Mix in a bowl 1 wineglassful each of lime-juice, cherry-syrup, and plain syrup, next stir in 1 gill of bay-rum, and lastly, a bottle of Scotch Whisky. Set the bowl on the ice, let it remain until the contents are quite cold, float slices of lemon on the top, add 1 bottle of Apollinaris water, and serve. (2) With Soz. of loaf sugar rub off the rinds of three lemons, pound it in a mortar, pour over 2 breakfast- cupfuls of boiling water, stir until the sugar is dissolved, then turn it into the punch-bowl. Now add the juice of the three lemons, passing it through a strainer to remove the pips, &c., let the liquor get cold, and pour in a bottle of Scotch Wliisky. Pack the bowl in ice, let the punch get cold, and serve. (3) Put the thinly-peeled rind of a lemon into a basin, cut the lemon in thin slices, removing all the white part at the same time, and put them in with the peel. Pour in l pint of Whisky, and let it stand for an hour or so. Add 1 wineglassful of curacoa, 1 pint of water, sweeten to taste, and empty in two bottles of iced soda-water. Stir the punch till the sugar has dissolved, then serve it in punch glasses. Wliisky Sling. -Put in a half-pint glass 1 wineglassful of Whisky, fill up with milk, put in a lump of ice, and serve. WHITEBAIT {Fr. Blancliaille; Ger. Breitling).— Although the correct ichthyological names in French and Fig. 1047. English Whitebait. German are here given, it may be as well to observe that Whitebait is more frequently met with on the Continent under its English name. This would lead to the belief that Whitebait forms an exclusively English dish, and