736 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Venison—continued. burning on the top and at the sides. The Venison will take about an-hour-and-three-quarters to bake. When nearly done, take the paste off it, put it into another baking-pan, and brown it quickly in a brisk oven. Place the Venison on a hot dish, strain the gravy from the baking-tin over it (see Fig. 1000), and serve with red-currant jelly. The object of the paste is to prevent the Venison becoming too dry before it is cooked, and to keep in the full flavour. Baked Saddle of Venison.—The saddle of Venison is the double loin. Have the ribs cut off close to use for soup, stew, or pastry. Wipe all the hairs off with a soft cloth wetted with warm water, tie thickly-buttered paper over the upper part of the saddle, lay it on a rack in a baking- pan, and quickly brown the joint in a hot oven ; then remove the paper, and season with salt and pepper. Put into the dripping-pan 1 teacupful each of butter, boiling water, anil red-currant jelly, and baste the Venison with this sauce until it is entirely brown; then serve it hot, with the sauce in a boat. Baked Venison.—The Venison should be hung till on the point of turning, then cooked at once before it goes further. Wash it well, put it in a stewpan with two or three carrots and onions, two bay-leaves, about a table-spoonful of juniper-berries, the same quantity of allspice, a few cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; pour in a teacupful of tarragon vinegar, and sufficient cold water to cover it. Place the stewpan over the fire until the liquor comes to the boil, then move it to the side and simmer until the Venison is tender. Grate about fib. of stale bread, and mix with it 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar and l teaspoon ful each of powdered cinnamon and cloves. When cooked, take the Venison out of the stewpan, brush it over with a paste brush dipped in beaten egg, and spread the bread- crumbs over it. Skim some of the fat off the cooking- liquor, baste the Venison with it, and put it in a quick oven until nicely browned ; then put it on a hot dish, and serve it with a sauceboatful of fruit sauce. Braised Venison Cutlets.—Lard the cutlets, and put them into a stewpan with a bunch of thyme and parsley, two carrots, and one onion sliced. Pour in a little gravy, and braise the cutlets for twenty minutes. When cooked, brush the cutlets over with a little melted glaze, arrange them on a hot dish, and serve them with a sauceboatful of piquant sauce. Broiled Venison Chops.—Cut the chops of a moderate thickness, remove the bones, and season the chops with pepper and salt; then put them into a basin, baste them with olive oil, and let them steep in it for two days. When ready for them, put the chops on a greased gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire for twenty minutes, turning them when half done on to the other side. When cooked, put the chops on a hot dish, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in glaze, and serve them with a dish of butter. Broiled Venison Chops with Chestnut Puree.—Take six fine Venison chops, pare them, flatten a little, and place them on a plate with 1 pinch of salt, h pinch of pepper, and 1 table spoonful of oil. Roll them well in this season ing, and put them to broil for four minutes on each side. Put b pint of hot puree of chestnuts on a dish, place the chops over, and serve with a gravy poured over all. Venison—continued. Broiled Venison Cutlets.—Cut some cutlets off the breast of a doe, remove the chine-bone, and trim round the other end of the bone; beat the cutlets lightly, season them with salt and pepper, lay them on a deep dish, spread some chopped onions and parsley-leaves over them, cover them with good oil, and let them macerate for two or three hours in a cool place. Drain the cutlets, lay them on a gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire, turning them when done on one side and finishing the other. Make some piquant sauce, and mix with it at the last 2 table- spoonfuls of currant jelly. When the cutlets are nicely browned, arrange them, overlapping each other, on a hot dish, pour the prepared sauce over, and serve them. Broiled Venison Steaks.—(1) Cut 2lb. or 31b. of Venison into steaks about tin. thick, and broil them over a very hot fire on a buttered gridiron for four minutes on each side. While the steaks are being broiled, melt on a dish before the fire, or in the oven, equal parts of red-currant jelly and butter, 1 table-spoonful of each to every pound of Venison, and a seasoning of salt and pepper; put the steaks on this when they are broiled, turn them over once, and serve hot. (2) Season the steaks with pepper and salt, and coat them with rolled biscuits. Make a gridiron hot, grease it with a piece of suet, lay the steaks on it, and broil them over a clear fire. When broiled on one side, turn the steaks carefully, and cook them on the other side. Put a lump of butter in a basin, warm it, then mix with it a little red-currant jelly that has been moistened with 1 wineglassful of port wine, seasoning it with pepper and salt. When cooked, put the steaks on a hot dish, pour the butter mixture over them, and serve. Broiled Venison Steak with Mashed Potatoes.—The same as for Broiled Venison Steaks, serving with 1 pint of mashed potatoes and a little gravy. Broiled Venison Steak with Puree of Chestnuts.—The same as for Broiled Venison Steaks, serving with b pint of puree of chestnuts. Civet of Venison a la Franqaise.—-Prepare the Venison the same as for Civet of Venison with Poivrade Sauce ; after marinading it for twelve hours, drain it well from the marinade-juice, place it in a saucepan with loz. of clarified butter, and brown for ten minutes on a moderate fire; then add 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, constantly stirring while adding it, and moistening with U wineglassfuls of red wine, also 1 pint of hot broth. Season with t pinch of salt and pinch of pepper, stir well again until boiling, and add twelve peeled small onions and loz. of salt pork cut into small, square pieces, also a bouquet garni. Cook all together for forty minutes, and four minutes before serving add twelve whole mushrooms. Dress on a hot dish, remove the bouquet, decorate with fried bread croutons all round the dish (see Fig. 1002), and serve. Civet of Venison a la Parisienne.—The same as for Civet of Venison a la Francaise, omitting the salt pork, and substituting for it eighteen small mushrooms instead of twelve. Civet of Venison with Poivrade Sauce.—Procure 2Hb. of Venison, the lower part if possible, as the lean parts are preferable, and cut it into small square pieces; lay these in an earthenware jar, with one sliced onion, \ bunch of parsley-roots, a sprigs of thyme, two bay-leaves, twelve whole peppers, 2 pinches of salt, \ pinch of pepper, and \ wine- glassful of vinegar. Let them marinade for twelve hours. Drain off the juice, and put the Venison in a saute-pan