687 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tCc., referred to, see under their special heads. V eal—continued. salt, and boil it well for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Before serving, put in a bit of butter with 1 dessert-spoonful of flour rubbed into it, stir till it boils, and then let it boil for ten minutes; strain it, add to it some chopped capers and small mushrooms, and pour it over the Veal when it is dished. Garnish with slices of lemon. Broiled Cushion of Veal larded with Anchovies (am Anchois).—Skin a cushion of Veal, interlard it with fillets of anchovies, and let it soak for two hours in plenty of water. Put the Veal in a stewpan with some fresh water, and stand it over the fire till boiling; then drain and wipe the Veal with a towel, put it in a basin with a bay-leaf and a few sprigs of rosemary, dust it over with pepper and salt, and baste with oil. In twenty-four hours’ time, broil the Veal, basting and turning it. When cooked, put it in a basin, baste it with more oil and lemon-juice, and leave it for twelve hours. Cut the Veal into thick slices, put them on a dish, and sprinkle over some chopped parsley, onions, gherkins, and capers. Garnish the meat with slices of hard-boiled eggs, pour the oil and lemon-juice in which it soaked over it, and serve. Broiled Veal a la Venisiemie.—Procure some rather thick and large slices of Veal, and lay them on a dish, with a few chopped mushrooms and shallots, some chopped parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf. Dredge them over with salt and pepper, and baste them with a few table-spoonfuls of olive oil. Let the slices steep in this marinade for about an hour, turning them occasionally so that they are equally flavoured. Strew them over with finely-grated breadcrumb, lay them side by side on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. Turn them when done on one side, and baste with the remains of the marinade. When cooked, arrange the slices of Veal on a hot dish, squeeze the juice of a Seville orange over them, and serve. Broiled Veal Chops.—(1) Cut off some chops, trim off the fat, and beat them till quite tender. Put them into a pan, pour in enough boiling water to cover, place the lid on, and stand the pan at the side of the fire, where the chops can simmer gently until done. When about three- parts done, sprinkle over a little salt and pepper. When done, take them from the pan, dry them in a cloth, spread a little butter over them, then brush over with Fig. 936. Broiled Veal Chops. egg, and sprinkle over some bread or biscuit-crumbs. Put them in the oven on a baking-sheet, and when a nice brown arrange them on a dish round a pile of mashed potatoes (see Fig. 936), and serve them. (2) Trim six Veal chops to a nice shape, rub them well with salt and pepper, and roll them in warmed butter. Afterwards dip them in beaten egg and coat them thickly with breadcrumbs. Lay the chops on a gridiron, and broil them over a clear but rather slow fire, turning them when done on one side. While the chops are cooking, V eal—continued. make hot some clear gravy, and season it to taste. Spread a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the chopis on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with the gravy in a sauceboat; or, if preferred, the chops may be put on the dish without the napkin, and the gravy poured over them. (3) Season some Veal chops with pepper and salt, and lay them in warmed butter; when well soaked, dip them into beaten egg, then roll each one separately in sifted breadcrumbs. Lay them on a dish, shaping them as round as possible, and when all are ready, broil them over a very clear fire. The fire should not be very hot, or the breadcrumbs will burn. It is a good plan to lay a sheet of well-buttered paper over the gridiron and the chops. Broiled Veal Cutlets.—(1) Cut six Veal cutlets from a fine piece of the loin of white Veal, pare and flatten them slightly, lay them on a dish, and season with 1 table- spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and 1 table - spoonful of sweet-oil. Turn the cutlets over several times to have them well covered, put them on the broiler over a clear fire, and cook for eight minutes on each side. Kemove them from the fire, arrange them on a hot dish, spread over a little maitre-d’hotel butter, and send to table as soon as possible. (2) Cut some chops from the ribs rather thin, leaving a clear inch of bone; trim off the gristle, beat them, season with pepper and salt, and dip them in melted butter and then in breadcrumbs; lay a sheet of paper dipped in melted butter on a gridiron, put the cutlets on it, and when the fire is clear put the cutlets over. When nearly done, take the paper away, and brown the cutlets on both sides; dish, and garnish with lemon and parsley. Broiled Veal Cutlets with Colbert Sauce.—Trim a few Veal cutlets, beat them slightly with a cutlet-bat, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and roll them in melted butter and breadcrumbs; broil them on both sides over a clear fire, dish them in a circular form round a puree of French beans, and pour over some colbert sauce, which is made by mixing 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley and a little grated nutmeg with 1 breakfast-cupful of flutter. Put in a stewpan 1 breakfast-cupful of melted meat glaze, and let it boil; then move it back and add by degrees the prepared butter alternately with the juice of three lemons; stir quickly over the fire, but do not let it boil. When the sauce has thickened, take it off the fire, and add an eggcupful of cold water. Broiled Veal Cutlets and Tomato Sauce.—Beat some cutlets with the flat side of a chopper, trim them, season with salt and pepper, and arrange them on a gridiron. Broil the cutlets over a clear fire, turning them, and basting with butter. When cooked, brush the cutlets over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of tomato sauce. Broiled Veal Sausages.—Put some neck of Veal and calf’s udder, cut into thin strips, in a saucepan with some water, and boil them. Put some chopped truffles, mush- rooms, shallots, and parsley in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and fry them for a few minutes ; then pour in some white wine and chicken broth mixed in equal quantities, season with mixed spices, and boil till reduced to half its original quantity. Drain the strips of Veal and udder, cut them into small pieces, and put them in the above mixture; add the beaten yolks of eight eggs, and a little salt and pepper, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and stir the contents, but do not let them boil. Blanch and soak some calf’s intestines in vinegar and water, drain them, fill with the forcemeat, and divide into sausages. Put the sausages in a saucepan, cover with white wine and stock, put in a lump of sugar, and boil them gently. When cooked, drain the sausages and leave them till cold. Put the sausages on a gridiron that has been slightly greased, and broil them over a clear slow fire. When cooked, put the sausages on a dish-paper or a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve.