THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. m For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. rings of white, put them in the mortar with the Veal, and pound them well. Spread a little mixed mustard over some slices of bread, then lay the white rings of egg on them, and fill each ring with the pounded mixture. Cover them with slices of bread, and press them lightly together. Cut the sandwiches into halves, and serve them. Veal Sausages.—(1) Chop 21b. of Veal very fine, carefully picking from it all skin and sinew, mix with it lib. of finely chopped beef-suet, and season it well with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, thyme, and marjoram. Put the mixture into well-cleaned skins, and tie them at intervals with fine twine. (2) Put some lean Veal and an equal quantity of fat bacon into a mortar with an anchovy or two and some sage, pound and beat them to a paste, mixing all evenly together, and seasoning with salt and pepper. When re- quired for use, form it into sausages, and fry them. Serve on stewed vegetables, or with white collops, or with fried sippets of bread. Veal Shape.—Put ljlb. of Veal in a saucepan with one or two onions, a small stick of celery, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs tied together, and salt and pepper to taste ; pour in sufficient cold water to cover it, put the lid on, and stew gently at the side of the fire until tender but not too much done. Ornament the interior of a mould with slices of hard boiled eggs, fancy shaped pieces of beetroot and pieces of olives, sticking them in with liquid aspic jelly, and leave them until set. When cooked, drain the Veal, free it from all skin and fat, and mince it finely ; then mix it up with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of the liquid jelly, and leave it until half cold. Next place the mince in the mould, being careful not to disturb the decoration, and leave it for a few hours in a cold place. When ready to serve, dip the mould in hot water, taking it out again quickly, wipe it, turn the contents on to a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, and garnish with parsley and rings of tongue. Veal Soup.—(1) Cut the meat off a knuckle of Veal, break the bones, put them into a saucepan with 4qts. of water, and stew them to make a broth. Cut the meat into small pieces, put them in an earthenware jar with Alb. of lean ham, also cut in pieces, four sliced carrots, two sliced turnips, a head of celery cut up, and \ table-spoonful of pepper- corns. Put a cover on the jar, and stand it in the oven till the vegetables begin to get soft and the gravy drawn from the meat. Strain the broth off the bones into the jar of meat, add 1 teacupful of well-washed rice, put the lid on the jar again, and cook the contents for four hours in a slow oven. Pass the soup through a fine hair sieve and keep it in a cool place till the following day; then skim off all the fat. Put the soup in a saucepan with 2oz. of boiled vermicelli, and boil it up; then turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (2) Put lib. of lean Veal cut in small pieces into a stewpan with a knuckle broken in pieces, and 3 pints of cold water. When boiling, remove all the scum that may have formed on the top of the liquor, add a turnip, peeled and cut into small pieces, move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, and let the soup simmer gently for five hours. Soak loz. of tapioca in cold water. Strain the soup, return it to the saucepan, put in the soaked tapioca, and boil it for fifteen minutes, stirring all the time. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 1 teacupful of cream, then stir in gradually a small quantity of the soup. Move the remainder of the soup to the edge of the fire, then stir the mixed eggs in quickly, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Pour the soup into a tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (3) Put into the soup-pot 61b. of the knuckle of Veal, Jib. of lean ham or bacon, six medium-sized peeled onions, two heads of washed and trimmed white celery, two slices of crumb of bread, a small quantity of whole white pepper, three blades of mace, a bunch of well-washed parsley, a sprig of thyme, and loz. of whole blanched almonds; pour Veal—continued. over them lgall. of water, and let it simmer for eight hours. Strain it, let it stand till quite cold, and then remove all the fat. Boil it up, remove it from the fire, and stir in by degrees 1 pint of rich cream. Pour it into a tureen, and serve. Veal Stock or Blond de Veau.—(1) Melt a little butter in a stewpan, then put in four sliced onions, 41b. of leg of Veal, 21b. of gravy beef, and two old fowls off which the flesh has been cut. Pour in 1 pint of stock, stand the stewpan over the fire, and boil the moisture down to a glaze; then pour in 5qts. of stock, and put in a heaped table-spoonful of salt. When boiling, skim the stock, put in some carrots and leeks, and let it simmer gently for four hours by the side of the fire. Strain the stock through a broth-napkin, leave it till cool, then skim off all the fat. Trim the fat oft’ and chop the flesh of the fowls finely, put it in a mortar, and pound it to a pulp; then put it in a large stewpan, mix in first a small quantity of Veal stock, and then add the rest. Stand the stewpan over the fire, stir the contents till boil- ing, then move it to the side, and let them simmer for ten minutes. If quite clear at the end of that time, strain the stock through a broth-napkin, to be kept till wanted. (2) Cut about ljlb. of lean Veal into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with three peeled and sliced onions, and a good-sized lump of butter, and toss them over the fire until nicely browned. Chop Jib. of ham, put it in with the Veal, pour in 1J pints of cold clear stock that has been perfectly freed of fat, and boil it until reduced almost to a glaze. Next put in the saucepan two cow-heels that have been cut up into convenient-sized pieces, two peeled carrots, a head of celery that has been washed and cut up into convenient lengths, a few sprigs of thyme and parsley, a bay-leaf or two, and a blade of mace. Pour in 2qts. of cold clear stock, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil the whole gently for two or three hours. Afterwards strain the stock into a basin, and when cold skim off the fat. It is then ready for use. Veal Tendons a la Frovensale.—Cut about 21b. of tendons of Veal into small squares, put them in a stewpan witli 1 teacupful of salad oil, two large sliced onions, a chopped clove of garlic, a sprig of thyme, and half a bay-leaf, dust over a little salt and pepper, put the stewpan over a slow fire, and keep the contents simmering for two hours, stirring frequently. At the end of that time, pour A pint of broth in with the tendons, add 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, and boil them for ten minutes longer. Arrange the tendons in a pile on a hot dish, strain the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve over them, and serve. Veal Turnover.—Mince very line some cold roast Veal, seasoning it with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Beat up two eggs, and mix with them gradually J pint of milk; mix into this sufficient flour to make a moderately stiff batter, mixing in also a seasoning of chopped parsley, salt, and pepper. Put 2oz. of butter over the fire in a frying-pan, and when it is boiling hot, pour in the batter; as soon as it begins to set, lay the mince- meat in the centre of it. Take care that the batter does not burn, and do not let it fry too quickly. When it is Fig. 969. Veal Turnover. done on one side, fold the edges of the batter over to the middle so as to enclose the meat (see Fig. 969), and then turn it with a cake spatula. When it is quite done, slip it on to a hot dish, taking it from the frying-pan with the