TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 802 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, .Sauces, dec., referred to, see lender their special heads. Yeast—continued. spoonful of salt. Leave the mixture till blood warm, then put in 1 breakfast-cupful of fresh Yeast or break up in it an ounce cake of compressed Yeast, and leave it to rise in a warm temperature for five or six hours. When well risen, turn the Yeast into a stone jar, cork it tightly, and keep it in a cool place. (5) Boil two dozen well-washed potatoes in a saucepan of water. When cooked, pour off the water and fill the saucepan up with fresh, and boil it. Put 21b. of flour in a large pan, turn the potatoes and liquor into it, and mash them all together. Mix 1 teacupful of brown sugar with the above ingredients, and stir in sufficient iced water to bring it to the consistency of cream. Scald out a stone jar that will hold 6galls., put a wire sieve over it, and strain in the Yeast. When blood warm, mix lqt. of fresh Yeast with it to start it. Keep the Yeast in a warm temperature from twelve to twenty-four hours, according to the weather, activity, and need of using. It will then be ready for use. Keep it in a cool place. From the foregoing receipts it may be understood that Yeast can be readily produced and grown in large quanti- ties provided the right pabulum be used, and especially if a small quantity of mature Yeast be used to start it. But as Yeast can be produced without using stock Yeast to start the fermentation, it is quite evident that Yeast cells are to be found in the flour, and exist in the sub- stance of the materials used. It is the law of nature that every organic creation shall carry its own ferment or destroyer : wheat carries a kind of Yeast cell, or yeasty ferment, on its husk, just as fruit carries a ferment on its skin; lienee it is possible to produce Yeast from wheat or flour, adding sugar and certain mineral requirements found in salt, or contained in hard water. But as the natural ferment is not so strong or vigorous as the cultivated stock Yeast, it is always advisable in preparing a growing Yeast to prepare a good food, and then plant a good Yeast, collecting the crop as it rises. Yeast may be preserved for keeping in various ways: (1) Place the Yeast in a close canvas bag, and gently squeeze out as much moisture as possible, until the Yeast assumes the consistency of soft cheese. In this state it may be wrapped in waxed paper and stored away for future use. (2) Whisk the Yeast until it is like cream, and then lay it with a painter’s brush on flat dishes and expose it to the rays of the sun. Repeat the layers as they dry until a thick coating is established. In this state it may be collected and stored in a dry cool place, and used in the ordinary way. (3) Strips of clean new flannel may be covered with Yeast as above (No. 2), and when dried the flannel should be rolled up and covered with waxed paper. When re- quired for use, a few inches should be cut off one of the strips, and soaked in lukewarm water and the Yeast washed off and the flour then stirred in. Dried Yeast Paste with Alum.—Put 1 pint of flour in a basin and stir in gradually sufficient boiling water to make a stiff batter, when quite smooth let it stand till milk warm. Mix with the batter 1 teaspoonful each of powdered alum, salt, sugar, and 1 teacupful of Yeast. Let the Yeast ferment, then mix enough meal with it to make a stiff dough. Let it stand till it works, then put it in a dark place to dry. Dried Yeast Wafers.—Put lqt. of strong Yeast in a vessel, cover it, and set it in a warm temperature. When it has well worked and has a good head on it, stir in sufficient maize-meal or wheat-meal to make a stiff dough, divide it into small quantities, and flatten with the hands into round cakes. Lay them on a sieve and dry them either in the sun or near the fire, turning them often. When quite dry (they will take two or three days), pack them away in tins. Be very careful to keep them in a dry place, as the slightest moisture injures them. When using these cakes, mix in about 1 pint of warm water, and with Yeast—continued. it make a batter in the centre of a dish of flour, or set a sponge, and proceed as usual in making Yeast bread. One cake will raise 12lb. of flour. Yeast Cake.—-(1) There are several ways of making this cake, but the best receipt is as follows:—Take 3oz. of hops, separate them with the hand, and stew and boil them in water for half-an-hour; strain off the liquor into an earthenware vessel, and while still hot put in 3tlb. of rye-flour. As soon as it commences to ferment stir” well, and while it is working add 7lb. of Indian-meal. Mix it well. Before the meal can be added the previous mixture will have become a stiff' dough so that the meal will have to be kneaded into it. Then roll it out to about iin. in thickness and cut it into cakes with a biscuit-cutter. Place the cakes on a board, and put them in the sun to dry. They must be turned every day until they become quite hard. Care should be taken that they are not exposed to the wet or damp. When they are wanted for baking, they should be broken up and put in hot water and left for one night near the fire ; by that time they will have dissolved. When dissolved, the liquor is used for setting sponge just the same as the Yeast of beer. Barley- or white pea-meal can be used instead of the Indian-meal. (2) Mix 1 table-spoonful of Yeast with h pint of luke- warm milk, and sift in sufficient flour to make it a creamy thickness. Put 2Alb. of flour in a basin with 4lb. of caster sugar, mix it, then pour in the middle the thick- ened Yeast preparation, and let it stand in front of the fire for an hour to set the sponge. At the end of that time, warm fib. of butter, and mix it in with the flour, &c.; add lib. of well-washed and dried currants, lib. of chopped candied peel, and i table-spoonful of mixed spice. Mix the above ingredients thoroughly. Line a cake-tin with a sheet of buttered paper, pour in the cake mixture, and bake it for an hour and a half in a good oven. When cooked, take the cake out of the tin, and lean it against something till cold, so that the steam may escape. Yeast Dumplings.—(1) Mix 1 table-spoonful of bakers’ Yeast and 1 teaspoonful of salt with Hlb. of flour; stir in sufficient warm milk to make the dough, work it well, then cover with a cloth, and set it in a warm place to rise for two hours. Dust some flour on a table, turn the dough out on to it when well risen, knead it well, then divide into small portions, which shape into balls with floured hands. Plunge the dumplings into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them rapidly for thirty minutes. When cooked, take the dumplings out with a slice, put them on a hot dish, and serve without delay with a sauceboat- ful of sweet sauce, unless they are served with boiled meat. (2) Procure some bakers’ dough and put it to rise in front of the fire for ten minutes, keeping it covered with a cloth. Have a saucepan of boiling water on the fire, divide the dough into small equal portions, and roll them into balls with floured hands. Drop the dumplings into the boiling water, and boil them for twenty minutes. When cooked, take the dumplings out with a slice, put them on a hot dish, pull them slightly apart with two forks to let the steam out, and serve immediately with a sauceboatful of sweet sauce or meat gravy, or else serve them with plain butter and sugar. (3) Warm lib. of butter and beat it together with three eggs; mix 4 teacupful of Yeast with lib. of flour, then mix in the beaten eggs and butter and 1 breakfast-cupful of warm milk. Add 1 table-spoonful of sugar, 1 salt- spoonful of salt, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Beat the mixture well with a wooden spoon, cover with a cloth, and set it in a warm place to rise. When well risen beat the mixture again, turn it on to a board over which flour has been sifted, divide it into equal quantities, and roll them into balls. Put the balls in a warm place till about to rise, then put them into a saucepan of boil- ing water, cover with the lid, and boil them for twenty minutes. Take the balls out quickly, put them on a dish, and serve immediately. (4) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of thick Yeast in h pint of