L E T I E R TO THE CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT COMMITTEE OF MEDICAL AND SURGICAL PROFESSORS, &c.. ■ ■ • • ' ■ :• ' ■ ' ■ .. ■ ■ I p ■ * Pv^SSlf-%TO T1IE CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT COMMITTEE OF THE MEDICAL AND SURGICAL FROFESSORS OF THE UNIVERSITY, AND OF THE ROYAL COLLEGES OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS OF EDINBURGH, ON MEDICAL EDUCATION, &c. Slit, Perceiving from the observations of some of the public bodies to whom the Provisional Resolutions of your Committee were submitted, that the nature, objects, and peculiar position of the Class of Military Surgery in this University, are still imperfectly under- stood, I have thought it right to reprint, with an addi- tional appendix, the Letter which I had the honour to address to Mr. Warburton in 1834. This I am induced to do from a sense of duty to the Chair I fill, to the Committee who framed the above-mentioned resolu- tions, to the several bodies by whom they have been finally adopted, and, above all, to the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, by whose regulations candi- dates for their diploma, have for many years past, had the option of taking a course of Military Surgery in place of a second course of the Principles and Practice of Sunrerv.4 The utility of a course of lectures on Military Sur- gery to young men educating for the Medical Depart- ments of the Army, of the Navy, and of the Honourable East India Company’s Service, I hold to be established by the expressed opinions of the distinguished indivi- duals at the heads of those departments, by the answers returned to the queries which I considered it my duty to submit to several experienced medical officers, and by the sentiments of the public press. In judging of the propriety of giving to gentlemen educating for the general practice of the profession, and who have already attended a course of lectures on the Principles and Practice of Surgery, the option of taking a course of Military Surgery as an additional part of their qualification, I would solicit attention to the following circumstances. 1. It is to be observed, that the proposal of giving such an option, has originated in the medical school of Edinburgh, where alone there has hitherto been an op- portunity afforded of forming a judgment upon this point. 2. The syllabus of my course, (Additional Appendix, No. i.) which has been in the hands of my colleagues and pupils, since 1823, will shew the topics embraced in this course, the number of them that are important in the general practice of the profession, and particu- larly important to a numerous class of young men who, although they do not embark in the public service, be- come practitioners in the manufacturing and mining districts of the country, in our commercial marine, or in our numerous colonies. 3. The state of the Class, from the time it came un- der my tuition in 1823, (Additional Appendix, No. n.) will shew that while the openings for appointments inthe public service have been necessarily diminished, the demand for that kind of information conveyed from the Chair of Military Surgery has progressively increased, that while the number of medical officers in the public service, and others obtaining gratuitous admission, has varied from twenty to thirty-six, the number of other pupils has risen from four to eighty-one ; and this with- out any regulation rendering attendance on such a course compulsory on any individual whatever. 4. When the regulation of the Edinburgh College of Surgeons, requiring two courses of Surgery, was adopted in 1829, the alternative of givingthe student the option to take one course of Surgery, and one of Military Sur- gery, was proposed without any application from the professor, or any communication with him, was sup- ported by the late Professor of Surgery in the Univer- sity, and was expressly urged, not as a boon to the teacher, but as a boon to the students, whose tastes, whose talents, whose previous acquirements, and whose future prospects are so widely different. 5. It seems to be quite clear, that unless the medical students obtain useful information from this Chair, they will not voluntarily pay the professor a higher fee for a course of lectures on Military Surgery, while they can get from able and experienced private lecturers, a second course of the Principles and Practice of Surgery for an inferior fee. Highly as I have ever appreciated the regulation of the College which embraces the course of Military Sur- gery, I must be permitted to say, that this course was not originally shaped to secure the patronage of the College, nor can it be altered to retain it. I have always looked upon, and I believe always spoken of, the course of Military Surgery with becoming dif-G lidence, as a supplementary, not as an indispensable course,—as a course calculated to give to medical officers in the public service, and to others, important information upon points which are not, and which can not, be fully embraced in the usual courses of surgery; and that these are the views which I have long enter- tained, will, I think, appear from the annexed extract from my evidence before the Royal Commissioners for visiting the Universities of Scotland, and from a me- morial delivered in to that body while sitting here in 1826, (Additional Appendix, No. hi.) These extracts refer to the proposal of converting the Chair of Mili- tary Surgery in this university, into a Chair of General Surgery, a proposal which was favoured by many of my friends, by several of my colleagues, and, I believe, by some of the Royal Commissioners. The Edinburgh College of Surgeons has at no time, (as has been erroneously stated,) held a course of Mili- tary Surgery to be equivalent to a course of the Prin- ciples and Practice of Surgery; but, after having, by its regulations, enjoined attendance on one course of the Principles and Practice of Surgery, and on one course of Clinical Surgery, has, for a series of years, given the student the option of attending a course of Military Surgery; not in place of a first, not in place of a second, but in place of a third course of instruc- tion in the Surgical Department. By this regulation, students desirous of obtaining the diploma of the Royal College, and, at the same time, aspiring to Commissions in the Medical Department of the Army, are enabled to follow what the Director- General considers the more eligible course of educa- tion. You, Sir, are aware that, in the discussions which/ took place in the joint Committee, it was proposed to do away the compulsory repetition of any course what- ever, a proposal to which I then did, and still do, ex- press myself most favourably inclined; but, in conse- quence of some difference of opinion on this point, and the improbability of our being able to carry other bodies along with us in this view of the matter, it was finally resolved, that in three departments, Anatomy, Practice of Physic, and Surgery, two or more courses should be enjoined. The option previously given to the student of Surgery by the Edinburgh College, was then, very properly, extended to the student of Physic, and in both cases enlarged. In looking to the working of the regulation of the College of Surgeons above alluded to, I have been in- duced to examine the schedules of education presented to me during the two years that I was President of the College, from October 1836 to October 1838, and I find that of 340 candidates for diplomas, 52 had attended the class of Military Surgery; of this number three, from having commenced their education previous to 1829, were not required to take more than one course of Surgery; of the remainder, twenty had taken the Mili- tary Surgery, in addition to two or more courses of the Principles and Practice of Surgery; leaving twenty-nine, or about fourteen annually, who had taken the Military Surgery as part of the requisite qualification for exami- nation at the Edinburgh College, or at the Army Medi- cal Board. This statement, while it shews that the course of Military Surgery has been taken by the students for other purposes than as a passport to examination at Surgeons’ Hall, shews also, that the regulation of the College has not that important bearing on the inter-a ests of the professor of Military Surgery, or on the in, terests of other professors, which has been imagined. But it is not, I apprehend, as it bears on the interests of any professor, or even on the interests of the students, but as it bears on the interests of the public, that this matter ought to be regulated, and I would therefore solicit particular attention to the concluding paragraph of my letter to Mr. Warburton, printed in italics. From the number of important cases and communi- cations, of which I have been made the depositary, I feel assured that much valuable information is annually lost to the public, from there not being, in each of the Metropolitan schools, at least one professor or lecturer, whose attention is specially directed to the topics em- braced in the course of Military Surgery, and to whom gentlemen, returning from foreign stations, might free- ly communicate their observations. I feel equally as- sured, and the officers of the Army will concur with me in the opinion, that the troops, when detached in small parties over the country, apart from their own surgeons, would meet with more prompt and efficient treatment, were country practitioners more generally instructed as to the habits and diseases of soldiers, and the duties devolving on army surgeons. I remain, Sir, Your most obedient servant, GEO. BALLINGALL, M.D. Regius Professor of Military Surgery. Edinburh College, 30 ih March 1839.13 LETTER TO HENRY WARBURTON, Esq. CHAIRMAN OFiA COMMITTEE OF THE HOUSE OF COMMONS APPOINTED TO INQUIRE INTO THE STATE OF THE MEDICAL PROFESSION. Sir, Holding as I do the only Professorship of Military Surgery in this country, and being of opinion that the nature and objects of the Course of Lectures which I have annually delivered in this University for ten years past, are but im- perfectly known either to the profession or to the public, I deem it my duty to lay before your Committee the following Queries, with the annexed answers, from some of my profes- sional brethren in the Army, the Navy, and the Honourable East India Company’s Service. These Queries I have submitted, exclusively, to gentlemen of standing and experience in the above departments of the public service, who are enabled, from personal attend- ance on my Lectures, to speak to their nature and objects, and only to a few of these to whom I had immediate and easy access. I have added some extracts from the periodical journals, in support of the utility of such a course of instruc- tion, and am in possession of the strongest expressions of ap- probation of this course from Baron Larrey, from Sir James M‘Grigor, and from Sir William Burnett. In relation to the class of Military Surgery, Sir James M‘Grigor thus speaks in his evidence before the Royal Com- mission for visiting the Universities of Scotland. “ In so far as the public service is concerned, the Army, the Navy, and the Service of the Honourable East India Company, I think it has been a most beneficial addition to the Chairs of the Medical School at Edinburgh. Besides wounds, and what is termed Military Surgery, the economy of hospitals and of hospital arrangements, is in this school taught by a gentleman10 who has served much in the field and in various climates. At the end of the last war, upwards of 300 medical officers of the Army were placed on half-pay, and it is within my knowledge that many of them profited greatly by attendance on this class before they returned to employment on full pay.” As the opinions of the heads of the Medical Departments of the Army and Navy are easily accessible to the Committee, I forbear troubling you with farther details, and will only state, that by .a recent intimation, the Director-General has enjoined attendance upon the class of Military Surgery, on those young gentlemen educating at this University for the Medical Department of the Army ; that the Physician of the Navy has given to candidates for his Department the option of attending this class in lieu of part of the surgical attend- ance required of them ; and that the Royal College of Sur- geons of Edinburgh had previously given the same option to candidates for their Diploma. Under these circumstances, I would most humbly submit to the Committee the propriety of giving a similar option to all students educating for the general practice of the profes- sion, and also of establishing similar courses of instruction in the other great schools of medicine. By icliich it appears to me that the public may be materially benefited in two ways; in the first place, by giving to the Army and Navy Surgeons facilities and encouragement to preserve, to record, and to make known the results of that valuable experience which in the course of service they necessarily acquire; and in the second place, by having always at command a body of professional men, who, without prejudice to their qualifications as general practitioners, may be more particularly instructed in the duties devolving upon medical officers in the public service, and thus competent to act upon every emergency. I have the honour to be, Sir, your most obedient humble servant, GEO. BALLING ALL, M.D. JRegius Professor of Military Surgery. Edinburgh College, 2bth Feb. 1834,APPENDIX. QUERIES addressed to Henry Marshall, Esq., Deputy Inspec- tor General of Army Hospitals, and to Dr. Badenach, Surgeon to the Forces, by Sir George Ballingall, Professor of Military Surgery in the University of Edinburgh. 1. Q. Are you acquainted Avitli the nature and objects of the course of lectures which is annually delivered upon Military Surgery in the University of Edinburgh ? A. We are acquainted with the nature and objects of this course of lectures as annually delivered in the University of Edinburgh, hav- ing not only attended the lectures of the Professor, but perused the volume he has lately published, entitled, “ Outlines of the Course,” &c. 2. Q. What is your opinion in regard to the utility of a course of lectures on Military Surgery to young gentlemen intended for the medical department of the Army, the Navy, and the East India Com- pany’s service ? A. We have a very high opinion of the utility of a course of lec- tures of this kind. A student who has attended a course of lectures on Military Hygiene and Military Medicine is prepared to avail him- self with great benefit of the practical advantages of experience, by which means he will be much sooner able to assume in an efficient manner the medical charge of a body of men, than if he had not re- ceived such instructions. 3. Q. What is your opinion respecting the plan of the course of lectures in question, and can you suggest any means by which it may be improved ? On this latter subject state your sentiments candidly12 and fully, and add what topics you think should be particularly dis- cussed in a course of lectures on Military Surgery. A. The plan of the course is in many respects excellent, and well adapted for instructing students with regard to the duties of medical officers in the public service. A course of lectures on Military Sur- gery, is, as we have already observed, extremely useful, inasmuch as it supplies that information which is peculiarly required by medical officers, and which can be but imperfectly communicated in a course of lectures, either on the practice of Medicine or Surgery. Among the many important topics which require to be considered in a course of lec- tures of this kind, the following seem to demand especial attention:— 1. The selection of recruits for the army or navy. 2. The means of preserving the health of soldiers and sailors un- der all circumstances, and in all situations to which they are liable. 3. The establishment, economy, and discipline of hospitals. 4. Military punishments, both coercive and corporal. 5. The peculiarities of gun-shot wounds. 6. Feigned disabilities. 7. The causes which permanently disable men for the public ser- vice. 8. The subject of climates in as far as regards health—Geographi- cal distribution of diseases—Medical Topography—Causes of endemic diseases. 9. Intertropical diseases. 10. Returns of sick, reports, military statistics. 11. Instructions to young medical officers regarding their general conduct, especially in relation to their superiors, their equals, infe- riors, and patients. H. Marshall, Deputy Inspector General of Hospitals. Robert Badenach, M.D., Surgeon to the Forces. Edinburgh Castle, 15th February, 1834. The same queries were submitted to, and similar answers returned by the following gentlemen, but these I have thought it unnecessary to reprint. Dr. White, Deputy Inspector General of Hospitals. Dr. Easton on the Half-Pay of the 15th Hussars. W. C. Callow, Esq., of the 6th or Inniskilling Dragoons. Alexander Copland Hutchison, Esq., Surgeon, Royal Navy, formerly Surgeon to the Naval Hospital at Deal. Alexander Cockburn, Esq., Surgeon, Royal Navy, Agent for Sick and Wounded Seaman and Marines at the Port of Leith.13 Andrew Morrison, Esq-, Surgeon, Royal Navy. Allen M'Laren, Esq., Surgeon, Royal Navy. George Ogilvy, Esq., late Superintending Surgeon at Bombay. David Boyd, Esq., Surgeon in the Honourable East India Com- pany’s Service. George Baillie, Esq., Surgeon in the Honourable East India Company’s Service. OPINION given by several Medical Officers of the Honourable East India Company's Army relative to the Lectures on Military Surgery delivered in the University of Edinburgh in 1827. We, the undersigned Medical Officers of the Honourable East India Company’s Service, do most willingly express our opinion of the great utility of the Lectures on Military Surgery delivered in the University of Edinburgh to those young men educating with a view to our service. Some of us, who have now retired from that ser- vice, have to regret that no similar source of instruction existed at the period when we were educated; and others of us, who are about returning to India, have eagerly embraced the opportunity afforded us by Dr. Ballingall, of profiting by his experience in the treatment of the diseases incident to European troops in India. (Signed) Alex. Kennedy, M. D., formerly Superijitending Surgeon, Madras Establishment. Colin Rogers, M.D., formerly Superintending Sur- geon, Madras Establishment. John Macwhirter, M. D., formerly Apothecary- General, Bengal Establishment. Wfiitelaw Ainslie, M.D., formerly Superintend- ing Surgeon of the Madras Establishment. James Hare, Jun. M. D., Surgeon, and formerly Apothecary-General, Bengal Establishment. Patrick IIalket, Surgeon, Bengal Establishment. Thos. Stewart, M.D., Bombay Establishment. Alexander Henderson, Surgeon, Bombay Esta- blishment. W. Duff, Assistant Surgeon, Bengal Establis/wnent. Thomas Ixglis, M.D., Bengal Establishment. Edinburgh, 2d January 1827.n Extracts from Reviews of Dr. Ballingall's Introductory Lectures to his course of Military Surgery. “ Upon duty in either service, the practice of medicine is the de- partment in which the army or navy surgeon is mostly called upon to exercise his professional skill, even during war, and in peace al- most entirely so. During war, however, he has not unfrequently to add to these medical duties the more serious and anxious one of the experienced operating surgeon, and in situations, too, the most un- propitious—very different, indeed, from the accommodation afford- ed in the theatre of a London or Edinburgh hospital. The military surgeon is frequently called upon to perform some of the most diffi- cult and hazardous operations on the field of battle, possibly under a scorching sun, or exposed to the utmost inclemencies of the wea- ther, to say nothing of the difficulties and danger in transporting those brave men afterwards over bad roads to considerable dis- tances. # * * * * * “ We say, unhesitatingly, of these Lectures, that they ought to be in the possession of every medical officer in the king’s service, for they embrace subjects which never before formed part of a course of surgery in this country. “ The historical notice he has given of the rise and progress of military surgery is interesting, nor are we aware that the same kind of information is to be found elsewhere ; neither ought the author’s judicious remarks on the site of camps and hospitals, and on the transport of the sick and wounded, to be passed unnoticed.”—Lon- don Medical Gazette, vol. vi. p. 950. <f We congratulate the army on the publication of these Lectures, which contain an outline of the measures which ought to be adopt- ed with the view of promoting the health and efficiency of an army. A complete code of instruction on this branch of the duty of a me- dical officer would embrace the following leading topics:—General principles of the recruiting of an army, including the period of en- gagements, &c. &c.—Minimum and maximum age of recruits ;— the qualities of recruits required for different branches of the sor-15 vice, as the infantry, cavalry, or artillery;—medical inspection of re- cruits ;—the peculiar attentions which should he devoted to the care of recruits ;—the provisioning of troops. This is a very important subject, and deserves the most careful consideration; it ought, of course, to embrace fully, and in detail, every essential fact in regard to the quantity and quality of rations suitable in different climates ; as also the hours of repast, and the best mode of dressing the rations, and cooking utensils. The clothing of soldiers, in as far as health, comfort, and convenience are concerned ; connected with this topic is personal cleanliness, a measure intimately related to health. The construction of barracks—barrack equipment—hospitals—hospital equipment—general principles of military discipline—punishments — duty—amusements—marching—means of preserving health in the field—encampments—bivouacks—the embarkation of troops— the influence of climate upon the health of soldiers, and the best means of preventing hurtful consequences—the duty of discharging soldiers on account of disabilities, and of assisting in awarding to in- dividuals a recompense in proportion to the claims they may have upon the country. “ Dr. Ballingall’s work embraces a great number of the topics which we have enumerated ; and we trust he will find an opportu- nity of further extending it, and of discussing some of the subjects, merely glanced at for the present, more in detail. Dr. Ballingall will recollect, that he fills the only chair of Military Surgery in this country, and that to him particularly the army have a right to look for instruction upon the means of preserving the health of soldiers. His talents, his industry, his success as an author, and perhaps above all, his experience of the duties of a medical officer, in a tro- pical as well as in a temperate climate, eminently qualify him for the task. His present work does him infinite credit; it is full of important facts and observations, with which not only medical, but all classes of officers of the army ought to be intimately acquainted. We are aware that some individuals, even of the medical profession, endeavour to undervalue the importance of Lectures on Military Sur- gery, and the means of preserving the health of soldiers; the best conclusions we can come to on this point is to infer, that they never had any practical acquaintance with this subject respecting which they venture to give an opinion. * * * * * “ The Doctor evinces an intimate practical acquaintance witli the subjects discussed in these Lectures, as well as with the best authors who have written upon the means of preserving the health of sol-I() diers. Our limits will not permit us to extend our remarks upon this valuable publication; we shall therefore conclude by observing, that it ought to be in the possession of every medical officer of the army, and that commanding officers should be intimately acquainted with its pages.”—United Service Journal, vol. ii. pp. 733 and 737- Extracts from Reviews of Sir George Ballingall’s “ Outlines if Military Surgery “ The idea of a school of Military Surgery appears to have oc- curred with great force to the original mind of the late Mr. John Bell of this city. Zealously devoted, for a whole lifetime, to the study of surgery, and especially to the operative department, that gentleman, with his characteristic enthusiasm and desire for im- provement, repaired to Yarmouth, in the autumn of 1797» to wit- ness, in the Naval Hospital there, the treatment of the wounded sea- men after the battle of Camperdown. It is probable that Mr. Bell saw much adventitious, as well as necessary suffering, in these men ; for he expresses himself as if he saw great room for improvement in the education of the persons intrusted with the care of the wounded. The general result of this visit was, the conviction in the mind of Mr. Bell of the necessity of the establishment of a general school of military surgery, in which officers destined for the public service in the army or navy might be taught all those principles and rules ■which might afterwards enable them to perform their duties in a manner satisfactory to themselves and useful to their country. He therefore addressed to Earl Spencer, then First Lord of the Admi- ralty, a memoir, dated from Yarmouth, 1793, in which he explains the reasons requiring the institution of one great school of military surgery, shows how beneficial it might be expected to be, and ex- plains the duties which he conceives belong to the Professor of mi- litary surgery. •x- * # * * “ Of the result of Mr. Bell’s suggestions to government we are not informed ; and several years of naval and military warlike ope- rations, with the single exception of the short-lived peace of Amiens,17 elapsed, with the usual proportion of sickliness and mortality, blood- shed and slaughter, without any other step being taken to qualify the surgeons of the army and navy for their specific duties, than what was afforded to the civil practitioner. Of these even, it may be remarked, from the limited qualifications then prescribed, with the great number of medical officers required, the supply was rather stinted and penurious. At length, in the year 1806, when Lord Grenville was in office, it was deemed expedient to institute a pro- fessorship of Military Surgery in the University of Edinburgh. * * * * # “ On the resignation of Dr. Thomson, in the year 1822, the pro- fessorship of Military Surgery was conferred on the author of the present volume, who forthwith proceeded, in the winter of 1823-4, to deliver a course of lectures. Dr. Ballingall had at first to contend with great difficulties, in consequence of a very general impression, that lectures on military surgery were superfluous, if not useless ; that all the necessary information was communicated by the teachers of surgery generally; and that even if instructions of this kind were requisite in time of war, the existence and prospect of a long period of peace held out little inducement to spend, in the acquisition of details which might never be requisite, time and money, which were urgently required for other professional studies. “ These considerations contributed to keep the chair long in the back-ground; and to a teacher of less perseverance and assiduity, might have formed insurmountable impediments. By persevering, however, in delivering annual courses of lectures,—by showing his capacity for the task—by collecting, digesting, and publishing what- ever information was pertinent to the duty of the medical officer,— and, above all, by making the course one not of military surgery, but military medicine and surgery, in the most comprehensive sense of the term, Sir George Ballingall has succeeded in obtaining for his department of professional study a degree of consideration which it probably never would have acquired by any other mode. In 1829 a favourable change of public opinion was evinced by the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, who had already prescribed two courses of surgery, allowing students to attend lectures on military surgery in place of one of these ; and last season, the heads of the medical department of the army and navy signified their desire that the course of military surgery in the University of Edinburgh should be allowed to stand for six of the twelve months’ study of surgery prescribed to candidates for admission into either of these divisions of the public service. C18 “ In this manner, it may he observed, that the chair of Military Surgery in the University of Edinburgh, which has been the earliest establishment of the kind in Europe, may at length become the model of similar establishments in different countries. War and all its demoralizing and expensive consequences, are doubtless condi- tions not to be desired; and, if it were possible to cease to cultivate the military art, it would be infinitely to the advantage both of na- tions and individuals. Such anticipations, however, it is scarcely permitted us to entertain, in the present state of the habitable globe. War is a necessary evil; and it becomes both nations and individuals to be prepared against its casualties and calamities. If one institu- tion is more necessary than any other, it is that, the object of which is to diminish the number, and mitigate the severity of the various evils necessarily attendant on those engaged in military and naval duties.”—Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, No. 117* “ Surgery has been greatly improved within a brief period by the writings of the medical officers of the army and navy; and those entering both these branches of the public service possess sources of information which had not existed even twenty years ago. So great was the demand for military and naval surgeons during the late wars, that young men were sent out as medical officers who were as incompetent as it was possible for them to be. When they commenced duty they were incapable of performing the simplest operation, venesection excepted, and their incompetence led to the most fatal consequences in numberless cases. After the peace of 1815, the senior surgeons of both army and navy made such repre- sentations to the heads of their respective departments, as led to a total change in the education of future military and naval surgeons. The course of education was so much enlarged, that the highest testimonial of competency was required for the subordinate situations of the medical department. “ Military and naval surgery was now enriched by the works of Baron Larrey, Dr. Hennen, Mr. Samuel Cooper, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Hutchison, and Mr. Hammick, and by various essays contributed by Sir James M'Grigor, Sir William Burnett, Dr. Yeitch, Sir Andrew Halliday, Mr. Bacot, Mr. Marshall, Mr. Murray, Mr. Dease, Mr. Lindsay, and many others. These writers communicat- ed a fund of the most useful information, a great part of which was new, as it never had been noticed in the best standard works on19 surgery. Cooper’s Surgical Dictionary, Hennen’s Military Surgery, Guthrie on Gun-Shot Wounds, and Hutchison’s Naval Surgery de- servedly rank as works of authority and reference. In the produc- tion before us, the author has analyzed the labours of his predeces- sors,—he has laid all under contribution. lie has collected and arranged the whole of the established facts,—he has added the re- sults of his own experience, and executed a system of military and naval surgery of inestimable value to those engaged in the practice of that branch of the healing art. ****** “ Some persons assert, that there is no difference between Civil and Military Surgery; and this must be granted so far as operations are concerned; but there is a vast deal of important information contained in the latter which is not in the former. In the works on surgery, there is no allusion to the examination of recruits, the diet, clothing, and exercise of troops, their accommodation in camp, barracks, and billets, diseases in camps, garrisons, and hospitals, transportation of the sick and wounded, diseases of troops on foreign stations, punishments, feigned and fictitious diseases, medicine chests, surgical instruments, &c. &c. The medical directors of the army and navy boards have therefore very properly recognised one course of Military Surgery as a part of the course of education of surgeons for the services over which they preside. It is a remark- able fact, that there is no Professor of Military Surgery in the nu- merous medical schools of London or Dublin.”—London Medical and Surgical Journal for October 1833.ADDITIONAL APPENDIX. No. I. SYLLABUS OF THE COURSE OF LECTURES ON MILITARY SURGERY. History and Progress of Military Surgery, with Notices of the Principal Writers on this department of Medicine General Obser- vations on the Means of Preserving the Health of Soldiers and Sea- men.—Examination of Recruits.—Accommodation of Troops in Camp, in Barracks, in Billets; Circumstances affecting their Health in these different Situations—Site, Construction, Economy, and Dis- cipline of Military Hospitals; General and Regimental Hospitals ; Advantages of the latter—Means of Transporting Sick and Wound- ed, Illustrated by Models and Plans of the Principal Contrivances for this Purpose. Surgical diseases, and accidents incident to Troops General Ob- servations on Inflammation, as connected with those Injuries to which Soldiers and Seamen are more peculiarly exposed; Causes, Symptoms, Terminations, and Treatment of inflammation.—Ulcers, Scorbutic and Common.—Burns, particularly those from Explosions of Gunpowder.—Hospital Gangrene. General Observations on Wounds.—Haemorrhage and the means of its Suppression.—Aneurism and Diseases of the Blood-vessels.— Injuries of the Nerves.—Tetanus.—Incised, Punctured, Lacerated, and Contused Wounds.—Gunshot Wounds—Wounds of the Head; of the Trunk ; of the Extremities.—Fractures, and Diseases of the Bones.—Injuries of the Joints, particularly those from Sabre and Gunshot Wounds.—Luxations—Amputation ; Comparative success of Primary and Secondary Amputations.—Comparative success of Amputations in Military and in Civil Hospitals—Different forms of operating in the Removal of Limbs, particularly at the larger Joints. Ophthalmia, particularly as it has affected the British Troops; Various sequelae of this Disease, and means of Treatment.21 Syphilis; Local and Constitutional Symptoms; Treatment.— Gonnorhcea, and its consequences; Hernia Humoralis; Strictures. Conclusion of this division of the Course, with some Remarks on Military Punishments. Diseases incident to Troops on Foreign Stations, particularly in Tropical Climates.—Diseases of the West India Islands Yellow Fever, the great source of Mortality amongst the Troops in the West Indies.—Diseases of the East Indies.—Dysentery, the prin- cipal source of Mortality amongst the European Troops in that quarter—Hepatitis. Fictitious diseases, and means of detecting them. No. II. State of the Class of Military Surgery in the University of Edin- burgh, from Session 1823-24, to Session 1838-39, inclusive. Session. Medical Officers in the Public Service, and Gratis Pupils. Other Pupils, including Apprentices. Total. 1823-24 33 4 37 1824-25 33 3 36 1825-26 26 8 34 1826-27 36 9 45 1827-28 27 10 37 1828-29 29 23 52 1829-30 26 19 45 1830-31 28 21 49 1831-32 24 25 49 1832-33 22 29 51 1833-34 21 38 59 1834-35 32 31 63 1835-36 31 63 94* 1836-37 23 37 60 1837-38 20 42 62 1838-39 23 81 104 • In a statement formerly printed the total number was stated as 76, but in consequence of the death of Mr. Turner, the late Professor of Surgery, at the commencement of this Session, an additional number of students entered to the class of Military Surgery.22 No. III. EXTRACT from the Evidence fgiven by Sir G. Ballingall, before the Royal Commissioners for Visiting the Universities of Scotland. Q. "Would you wish, to see introduced into this University, a separate Professor of Surgery, apart from the Professor of Anatomy ? A. I think it would be beneficial to the school. A branch of so much importance as surgery, should be taught separately. Having it connected with another professorship seems an anomaly. Q. Would you consider the establishment of a separate Professor- ship of Surgery as interfering with your particular department ? A. Not at all. I think there is quite room for both. According to the view I take of my subject, I confine myself to a particular course of instruction, which is not adapted to a general course of surgery. There are many subjects which come a propos to my class which are quite out of a course of general surgery; and I omit se- veral subjects, because they are not so common among military and naval men, as among the other classes of the community. EXTRACT from a Memorial submitted to the Royal Commissioners for Visiting the Universities of Scotland, by Sir G. Ballin- GALL. I am further induced, in justice to the chair which I have the honour to fill, to submit the foregoing remarks to the Royal Com- missioners, because I know that some of my colleagues are of opinion, that it would be for the interests of the Medical School that a Pro- fessorship of Surgery should be instituted in this University, apart from the Anatomical Chair; and that this might be done by con- verting the Professorship of Military Surgery into a chair of General Surgery. Now, whatever may be my sentiments as to the expedi- ency of instituting a Professorship of general Surgery in the Univer- sity, and they are certainly favourable to such an institution, I am at the same time decidedly of opinion that such a Professorship should not be formed by sacrificing the chair of Military Surgery,—23 a chair 'which, in the hands of an experienced Army Surgeon, I have ever considered capable of being rendered interesting to the Students of Medicine generally, and peculiarly important to such of them as may he educating for the public service of the state.” Edinburgh, 2cl October 1826. i EDINBURGH: Balfour & Jack, Printers, Niddry Street.i * ' * sttt* •f{.d I ' ' ’ ito r ' ' «• f ruU ::r ' ' : **ro! ! * • irj £. ,j •rt'pL .0 »' V ;s ;• o V r»> ' ^ m r z i.-: ’i " v’ ;:a " v r 1' :J ‘ .. .L 3;'. 1-j U&,Y.J}i{ 8 • ; Ml) U*- 'ill {JUl ■i N •- v> vo ‘ •• - . • .. >• r ' - * 1 * '>'a -• . : 4 *To face Page i. y0|, Wn la4 CASES OF PHTHISIS PULMONALIS. Reg. (Edema of left side, asthma. 204 206 233 234. Name. Sex. Age. Occupa- Duration of disease. tion. Brown, m. 35 Hodge, m. 30 About 3 months after fever. Oliver, f. 47 14 month in hosp. prev. not given. Stewart, f. 28 2 months in hosp. prev. not stated. M‘Queen, m. 48 1 month in hosp. Grant, f. 58 3A months. Keith, m. 4 Wheel- wright. Cougli for 2 years, agg. by hoop.cough Watt, in. 23 I month in hosp. Weir, f. 26 5 weeks. Johnston, m. 23 About 6 months. Baxter, m. 24 Upwards of 5 nonths from cold. Wood, f. 37 month, came on in hosp. Henderson, m. 33 Cough for 5 years. Cockburn, f. Servant. More than lmonths Stewart, m. 31 Winter. Cough and dysp- J noea for 16 months-1 Munro, m. 30 Mason. months. Wood, m. 32 lallad- inger. months. Cassidy, m. 36 year. Millar, m. 40 months in hosp. BeSS, f. 34 month in hospital Farquarson, m. 39 24 months. M'Dougald, m. 28 Stone- mason. months. 1 Dunsmure, f. 22 do. ' Alcorn, m. 4 ' do. Cosgrave, m. 45 M'Intosh, m. 25 0 do. Baxter, m. 63 Seaman. 1-4 years. I Bain, m. 22 Painter. weeks. s Hidley, m. 30 Wright. Cough for 3 years. Finlayson, m. 35 14 months. \ Swiney, m. 6 Cough after measles 1 3 years before. M'Millan, in. 21 [’rin ter. months. Farquar. m. 22 Suilor. , r 4 do. Tait, m. 23 Labourer I-Iieinopt. 18 month, ollowed by others. Hardie, ml 70 months. Greenshield m. Groom. Wint. cough 3 years ^ irg. symp. 3 weeks. < Davie, f. 17 months. Wright, in. 39 C 2 years. I vers, f. 22 General debility \ for 14 months. 0 Collins, f. 20 Mot stated. Graham, in. 30 Baker. 14 months. Crawftiird, f. 23 4 do. f Petrie, m. 34 Cutler. F l year. 46 Stone- 1 2 do. mason. Murray, 111. 28 Painter. 3 do. 1 Murray, f. 29 2 do. Peebles, f. 33 Servant. 7 months. Kty, m. 34 Writer. Cough for 18 years. M'Intosh, in. 23 Joiner. 11 months. 11 »t tie. f. Fcrgusson 23 Tailor. Some years. Symptoms. Affections Larynx and Trachea. ^ pid emaciation. The usual. Expectora- tion globular. Much diarrhoea and emaciation, evere diarrhoea, othe usual. Do. ’alpitations, parox. of yspnoea, voice husky. Considerable lucmopt. usual symptoms. Occasional hemoptysis others as usual. >yspeptic, followed by cough, fever, Sec. Iiemoptysis, pyrosis, omiting, others usual. rsual, cavernous rale in right. [itmopt. suberep. raleir ft, resp.puerile in right, he usual pectoril. ovt cavity. 'lie usual. Do. ery chronic, ain in epigastrium, others usual. . 130, resp. 58, little cough, resp. puerile. others usual. Bronch.gl. enlar. cont.cbeesydepos Small ulcer in left chorda vocalis. Latter red. AFRCTIONS OF THE ORGANS OF THE CHEST. Lungs. Y ellow. Tuberculation. In both, most in right, In both, dissem. in left, in right in form of a zone General over both, es- pecially left. Bronch.gl. enlar. cont. tuber, mat. ing r:\le in left, suul, tintement metal- lique over cavity. . 114, resp. 48. those of pneumonia. of blood, usual, ccasional blood i sputa, usual, omiting, purging, ■abdomen, cough, t first dyspeptic, the pectoral. noea, emaciation, ercussion clear, resp. amphoric on right. 2 days before death, loughi luemoptysis 6 months before death, :Vcre diarrhoea, Small, white in left. Numerous in both, coa- lescing in upper lobes. In upper part of both. In upper of both, and lower of left. General over both. In both. Extensive in both, es- pecially in left. Through both in va- rious stages. In both, most in left. In both, in groups over right, which crepitating. Hard through both. Through both in all stages. Throughout both, espe- cially left. Numerous and small through both. None. Grey. Of nearly all of left, gray colour. Round the Tubercles. In the upper part of both round excavations. Extensive over both. In both, especially left. Limited masses in both. None. Through both. In both, more extensive in right. In both. Clusters of opaque tub, in both. Through both in all states. Num. in both, a creta- ceous mass in upper left. In yellow-gray masses, coalescing most in lower. Numerous in both. Extensive in right, in left limited. Numerous in both,most in left. Tn both. None. In both. In right. In form of yellow irr'e- gulur masses in both. In both. In both. Numerous in both lungs In both, most on left In both, coalescing in left, in right scattered. None. In both. In both, less advanced in left. Confluent on the upper, discrete in lower. Ill both. In both. NTum. crude in right, coalescing in left. In both. In both. Through both in upperl Extensive of left. Universal of both, verv firm. In both. Partial in both, Extensive in both. Miliary dissem. through left, a few in right. Excavations. None n either. A large one in upper of left, lined, smaller from softd. tubercles in right Large in the upper part of both. Several large in upper part of both, communicating. Large one in upper of right, smaller in left. Large in upper of both. Remaining Pulmonary tissue. Adhesions. P/curce. Effusn. within Bands of lymph on left, Of both with gelatinous fluid. Of both. On the upper part of both Extensive on the right. Partial in upperof right. In both, especially left. Extensive in both. In right limited. Miliary through both, coalg. in upper of right. In both. In both. Partial of right. Small in lower of left from recently softejied tubercles. Several large in upper of right, smal- ler in the middle of do. Large in the upper of left, smaller in lower lobes. Num. commun. in upper of left, in Ser. effus. in right one a vessel pervious seen to cross, between tubercles. In both, of var. sizes, largest in left, crossed by bands, contained pus. Large and small in both, containing pus, lined. Several cavities in right, doubtful Subst. of left dark- whether from the softening of tub. red and solid. Numerous small in both, lined, con- Tissue red & infil- taining matter. trated with serum. Numerous small in upper of left, Lower of left, & two in lower of right. of rt. flor. infilt. ser. One the size of a walnut in upper Left engorged and part of lower lobe of right. hepatized. A large one in upper lobe of left, smaller in right. Numerous in upper of left, few in lower, a large one in right. Large one in upper of right, smaller in left. Small one in upper and back part of Two small hep.mas- right, containing pus. None. ; Large oi e in upper of left, nume- rous snail in right. 2 large, one in upper other in middle gilt, smaller in left, upper, small, from the softeninj ircles. small ses in the right. Tis. bet. tub. dense and load, with ser. lobe of r In both, of tub Large and small in upper of right. n left. On both around the tubercles. None. Around the tubercles in both. Extensive in the right. In left. Universal of right, li- mited in left. Miliary dissem. equally through both lungs. In right. Large in; the upper of both, smaller in other parts. Cavities of various sizes through both. A few small containing pus in both, Num. small in upper of right and lower of left, lined, and contain, mat. Numerous, irregular in upper of right, none in left. Several in left, small, and contain- ing matter. A large with thin parietes in up. of right, a smaller in upper of left. None in either. None. In both, most in right. General on left, partial on right. Extensive on left, on right partial. Through all of right, purtial in left. Miliary through both, most in left, the upper lobes of both. Large irregular in upper of right, smaller in left. Large in upper part of right. Small, containing pus in middle of right; in lower cont. putrid sanies. Large in apices of both, a clot of blood in one on left Numerous in both, small in the right, and large in left. A large one in top of left of the size of an orange. Two very large in posterior of left, from top to bottom. Numerous, superficial in right, few in left. None. Large, superficial in upper of left, in rest and in right smaller. both, especially right both. In both. Partial of both. In left. In both round the tub Extensive of both, iln both upper lobes. On righ) into c one superficial had burst leura. Numerous, irregular in upper of rightjone small in left One large in upper part of right burst by two openings, two in left. Several Superficial in left, a small one in right burst. Several irregular in uPPer °f left- Large and numerous throughout both. Several in both, most numerous in Up.lobes infilt.witli ser.hepat.betw.tub. Tis. of right betw. tub. oederaatous. Tis. very red, cond, & shed, bloody ser. In lower part of left, Both infilt.witli ser. Hep.betw.tub.mas- ses in lower lobes Several apoplectic masses in left. Partial, red & grey, hepat. on right. Hep. round tuberc. in lower of left. Much serum in in- tervals of tubercles. (Edema of lungs between tubercles. Strong in upper lobes of, both. Partial of right, exten- sive of left. Firm on the right side. Large serous in left. Bloody serum in both. Serum in right Serum in both. Bronchi. Lg. most affected. Of left enlarj contained pus- Lining memb. red & softened Leftalone do |Equally. Left. Right. lEqually. STOMAC Hypertrophy of left ven- tricle. Concent, hypert. of left vent, mitral v. carfilag. Extensive of left lunj Extensive and very firm in both. Partial on right, general on the left. General and intimate left, partial on right. General and firm on both sides. In upper part of left. General on the right. Firm on the left, partial on right. On both sides, most on left. Old and strong on right, left free. Old on right side. Oldandgeneral on right On right firm, very thick. Universal on right, par- tial on left. Extensive and firm of both. In both, limited to up- per part in left. Universal of right, par- tial in left. Partial of both. Extensive and firm on both, especially left. Universal on right, left partial. On both sides. Universal of right, left limited. General and firm of both athicklayeroflymph, General of right, left free. Cont.puriform r f matter. Right. Tubes dilated.lLeft. Serum in pericard. hy- pert. of left ventricle. Red and cont.[ purif. matter. Red and with frothy mucus. 2lb. of flabby serum in right. lib. of ser. in right, 41b. left. do Equally. Right. I Left. (Right. Left. Right. do Left. ^Equally. Red and cont.L. . mucus. l^'ght- Some of the bronchi dilat. Red and cont. muco-pur.mat. both sides. upper of right. the upper lobes. In both, larger in right. General and firm over both. Universal of left, partial of right. Extensive of left by a thick membrane. Strong and general on right, partial of left. Universal on left, right free. Universal on left, in up- per of right lung. OnrightdJe posteriorly. ^|r-iJiu}nb-r^-t Universal on both sides, Some serum ini left. Lymph and serum ini left. Pleura ofgreei col. & ragged. Strong of the upper of both. On the upper lobe of right, rest free. Universal and firm of left. Air.lym-ser.in right plea. red. Air, serum, & lym. in right. Strong and extensive of both, especially of leflu Redness of membrane. do Equally. Right. Equally, do do Left. 'Equally. do Right. Left. Right. Equally. do Right. do Equally. Right Left, do Right. Left. do Right Equally. Right do Left, do Equally, do Healthy. Hypertrophyofleft ven- tricle. Contracted, Healthy, do do Both vent, hypert. mi- tral valve corrugated, Healthy. Small, healthy. Enlarged in all its cavit. and thick in parietes. Left vcnt.thin,soft,right thick, hard .globul.veget. Heal Heal Mucous membrane thick &niamillatecl AFFECTIONS OF THE ABDOMINAL ORGANS. Liver. Healthy. Nothing Healthy. Left vent, dilated in ca- vity & thin, in parietes. Healthy. do Adhered topericardium.l Distended. All said to be Health y. Tumours in subst. Pale, with yellow spots, tatty ? Large, indurated, capsule thickened. Very bard. Large, congested. 74 lbs. in weight, cirrhosis. Weighed 5lb. cir- rhotic. thy. thy. Large. Large, hypertrophy of cellular tissue. morbid Not per Large, nutmeg. Large and granular. Large, adhering to diaphragm. healthy. Pale and granular. Small Intestines. Other Follicles enlarged, ulcers in lower part. Solitary and aggregate glands enlarged. Ulcers throughout, nu- merous near ccccum. Large Intestines. organs Small ulcers in the be- ginning. Ulcers most in arch aud Sigmoid flexure. Agminated glands en- enlarged, many ulcernt. Sol. and agg. glands en- larged and tubercular. Extensivculccrsin lower part, irregular. Round excavated ulcer near ileo-coccal valve. Mesenteric Glands. sound. Healthy. Other I organs In caput ccccum. Small ulcer near lower end. found. milled. Pcycriun glands cnlarg. No ulcc Heal Other A small ulcer in tliccce- cum. Other Organs. Serum effused into peritoneum. Kidneys granular, sound LowcrpnrtsInJded with tubercles. Healthy. jHealihy. do do do Other Healthy. All healthy. Contained a few tubercles. healthy. Large, pale. Healthy. Friable and dark- coloured. heal Many of the frauds en- larged. All ICcecum vascular, with small ulcerutioiiK. A few ulccrfl in upper part. Mcmb. red, thick, with num. deep ulcerations. An ulcer in the,up. part, Icnlarg. glundH in lower. thy. Healthy. healthy. Corf. port, of kid, pule &dimiu. in size Pcriton.ndliering in var. parts, & tuber. healthy. Others healthy. Appearance of pealrixed ulcers. (Ragged red ulcers in colon. (Distended. Other Small but healthy. Small, do Healthy. Nothing Organs. thy. Hypertrophy olj grey matter. Flabby and nut- meg. Fatty, adhering to diaphragm, | Enlarged, pale, gra- nular. I Large, pale, greaxy. Large and pale. Large, pale, waxy- morbid sound. Weighed Olb. waxy. L1 rgfi Glands enlarge! and I some ulcerated. Aggregate glands en- larged, some ulcerated. Ulcers in lower pnrt- Sevcral ulcers In lower part. Glands In lower pv* large and tuUrCU'ar‘ Num. irred"1"** ulcers in lover port. Healthy. JMS.«n,llli*°r.lowCT part, no ol«*»«>on. found- Small ulcers in colon. Ulcers in beginning. Several ulcerations in colon. A small ulcer in caput In |0Wer part numerous ulceration* Glands enlarged, ulce- rated. Bonymasscsin situation of glandH. Knlnrg. & tub. a few softened. Granular deposit in kidneys, Kidneys pale. Large, hard, yellow. Extensive ulceration through whole tract. Ulcers in the commence- mentAFFECTIONS OF THE ORGANS OF THE CHEST. CASES OF PHTHISIS PULM0NAL1S Name. 2S7 Brvce -292 CongaltOQ 293 Mitchell 296 | Campbell 29S Craig s; ■ 306 3. 3 SIS 323 331 332 344 34 3 3lo 345 339 361 373 374 376 379 380 885 386 3MI Lorage Murray Sutherland Pow Guun Elder Gunning Gun Penman Baxter Hay Bain Annandale Irving Carson Sineaton Shields Petrie Buchanan Sail Fisher Sex. Ago f. i 4$ f. I 21 m. j 52 f. | 36 2S 31 40 32 21 53 49 Occupa- tion. Duration of disease. Flax- Dresser Jeweller Image- maker Shoe- maker Jeweller Iron- founder Painter Porter Weaver Fleslier Joiner Washer- 399 403 412 117 418 419 421 439 451 462 Plank if. \ 49 Taylor 1 f. 1 S2 Rutherford I m. 1 36 arquhar f. I 24 46 4 484 494 516 517 519 529 Smith Intyre Lascelles Turnbull Hunter Johnston Harris 538 | 37 37 | m. j 58 | f. | 29 I f- 40 1 38 Hewing mason Servant Brewer Alexander f. 40 Falconer VI'Daid Kay Anderson Charles Finlay Wright Redpalh Davy 660 Ford 5C6 I Lench 21 f. f. m. I 36 m. 5 months 7 months months months IS months 2 months 5 months 3 months Cough for soru years 2i years l i years Cough for 15 months >ome years 3 weeks o months 3 months 3 months months 4 months 4 months 5 months Several years L year Not known, six months in jail 3 years Sy ’ mptoms. Affections Larynx and Trachea. Occasional haemoptysis; usual sual, p 120, resp. 60 Occasional haemoptysis; others usual Usual; pain of abdomen nausea and vomiting Usual Those of chronic latyn- gitis Nausea, vomiting, pain in epigast, others usual Usual, hemoptysis thick, rough, ulc. epiglot.destroyed partially A year nter cough S years 6 months nonths months Seyeral times in the hospital months Porter |l4 days [Hough from 3 years 'fid In 1 bad health for 5 months 6 veeks 16 days, at first __ igors Coiigh for more San a year m Usual Occasional voraitin; usual Hnemopt. at first violent, occasionally after, usual Pain of left side, much dyspnoea, p. 126 Epigast. tender, dropsy, died comatose Little expect., pain of chest, qough At first dyspeptic ; lne- mopt. others usual The usual copious lne- mopt. 2 days bef. death Dyspn. in parox. sound dull in left Usual, p. 150, bruit de pot fele at top of right Those of tabes mesen- teries, little cough Cough, diarrhoea, ah- dom. tympan. The usual Occas. hstnopt. dropsy, others usual Abdom. tumid, copious hemoptysis Insens. p. 120, dulness & crep. in upper of right Usual, much diarrhoea Much pain of left side, lalpitalions usual isy, palpita- tions \ Usual, acute pain of left, dyspn cel before death Pain in left side, lne- moptysik, oedema, Vomiting iof blood, of Sound, ocsophag. : ■- e constricted Through both both, most in left both right both both both eoalcscg. in up- per, miliary in lower both Through both both in groups both the middle of both yellow, cheesy the lower iobe of •ight both, more and larger in light both both Through whole of left and upper of right both, most in left Through left, in rami- groups in up. of rt. A few in both Hewing- mason Brass- founder Hawker ingests,main of side Usual Usual Those of i|i Asthma for some years, palpitations, dropsy Almost nocough, slight haemoptysis Usual, dittrhoea occa- sionally bloody 120, iesn. 28, no cough, much dyspnoea 40 46 Hawker Booksel- ler Bookbin- der Slatci | ro. I 25 | in. I 17 I f- | f. I 28 Pedlar Sailor ?ar after cold 6 weeks 9 months from cold 3 years, from cold 3 weeks t months 4 months Short time 4 months 4 months .Some years Usual, pain of throat Hcemopt- at first, usual Occas. hicmopt. aphonia. others usual Hicmopt.. others usual Hiemoptysls, dropsy P. 120, rejp. 72, great dyspnoea Pain of throat Acute , , The usual Ulcers in epiglot. larynx, & trachea Thicken. & ulcer- ation of lary The usual Usual, at dysentery Asthma, visual lust those Epiglottis and la- rynx ulcerated Lungs. Tuberculation. Yellow. I Grey. In upper lobes of both In left In both, most in left Very extensive in right Extensive in right Extensive in both In upper lobes of both Upper of both In upper parts of both In both dark, diffused round yellow tubercles In upper lobes of both both, most in left Throughout the right patch in left lower Through left, in starlike hard masses in right i whole right, iu form of whitish-yellow masses Throughout right, par- tial in left None In lower lobes of both Around tub. most in right In both In both Extensive in left Extensive in left In left In upper light Most extensive in left In right both Through left, none in right None Extensive in right In both ^ right, especially in lower lobe I masses anu single in both Through botll, most in left In right Tn both In both, gritty particles imbedded both Soft in right, hard in left None up. lobe of rt. light- yellow, friable; granular i both, in separate masses in right In both In both Tubercular infiltration in upper of right Through both Through whole of left anil upper of right In both Excavations. — Remaining Pulin. tissue. One large in upper of left, others smaller in rest and in right One large in upper lobe of left, ir- regular One large in upper left, with smaller in rest and in upper of right One size of orange in upper of right, smaller in rest In both, larger in the left One large in upper of right, smaller inferiorly in left Small through upper of both Large in upper of left, smaller in- feriorly and in right Large posteriorly in both, small an- teriorly Small in the apex of left Small through both, especially in upper lobes Small cavities in the tubercular de- position One large in upper of right, lined Some of the tubercles softened Large in the upper of left, slnall in n® . _ Sev. in up. left, 1 large contained a large vessel, canal pervious, l o rupt. Several ill left, two perforating pleu- ra, one in upper right Several in left, one in upper had burst In the upper of both, larger and more numerous in left One size of orange in upper of right, lined Numerous, irregular, not lined, in both Small, irregular in right None in either Hepatization in lower lobe of right Lower of right, hep. with bloody serum Lower lobe of right red and solid Tissue red, & con- tain. bloody serum Upper and lower parts of both lungs red and liepatized Lower lobe of right solidified Right loaded with serum Small, size of peas in upper of right One in right very large, fron apex to inf. edge, in rest & in lef small, Numerous in both, larger in the Mt Hepatization round tuberc. mass in left Small ecchymosed spots through light Red hepatization betw. tuberc. mass. In right around cavity Miliary, dissem. through both, some softened None Of nearly whole of left In both In both None In both Extensive in left and upper right In both In upper lobes of both Through right, and up- per of left Lower lobe of right, and part of upper left In both Infiltrated in right, cre- taceous, tub. puckering In lobular form, most in left In groups, bard in both In both, most in right In both, most in left In both In right Doubtful One large in upper of left, walls thin and perforated One large irregular in upper of left Small cavities in the upper of right One large in upper lobe of right, filled with pus Recent, from softening of the tu- bercles None One in upper and back part of left, containing pus with tuberc. matter Several in upper lobes of both, most in right In upper lobes of both, of various sizes In upper of left, one of size ot a fil- bert, round, containing cheesy matter In the upper lobes of both, one in right the size of an orange In both, largest in left Several in both, some of them gan- grenous In upper of right several small lined Large in upper lobes of right None Most in right In upper of both None Round yellow tubercles Extensive in right, in left none Most in left In apices of both None In upper of both, from size cl peas to walnuts, lined In the apices of both Numerous in the right Several in both Extensive and strong on both On the upper of both, very thick in left Universal of left, partial on right General, and firm of right Of both, extensive in upper of left On both sides At upper part in both Firm on left Strong of the upper of both Firm on both, most ex- tensive of right Extensive and firm on ;ht Partial, firm on right Of lower lobes of both On both, most extensive on left Of left strong Extensive of both, on left very thick Limited of the left Universal, and firm in left Leftinfiltratedwith bloody serum Mid. ofrighthepat. lower infiltr. serum Hepatization round the tubercles Red hepatization of lower lobes Red hepat. in lower lobe of right Red hepat. in lower lobe of right Hepat. between tu- berc. deposition Tissue between tub. red and condens. Redness of tissue between tubercles Adhesions. Pleurae. Effusn within. 3 lb. green-yel. pus in left Of air in left distending it Slb.serumwith lymph in left Serum andyel. lymph on both lb. of serum in each cavity Of pus in absc. bound by adh. Air, lymph, & serum in left Firm in upper parts of both Thick and universal on right Universal of left, right free On the posterior of right Universal on right, par- tial on left Universal and firm on -beth- irm over lower lobe of right In posterior part of right lung Universal of left, partial of right Strong of both Middle and upper of right On both sides firm Recent In both, most extensive and intimate ofleft Extensive and firm on both General of left, partial in right Tender adhesions on ight Extensive and strong on both sides Universal ofleft, confin ed to upper of right On both sides Of lymph and serum in right Air, lymph, & serum in left Of upper lobe of right Universal on right, thick and firm Old of both Partial on both Confined to upper of both Of both, most on left On both sides Universal of right Universal of left, partial of right Red and con- taining pus Reddened Tubes enlarg. and reddened -2 lb. ser. in rt, lymph in lower Of serum into both Lymph on pleura of right Lymph on low lobes of right Lymph on pleura of right Lymph pleura of right Lg. most affected. Reddened All tubes in rt. contain, blood Equally Left do Right do Equally do do do do do do Right alone Right Left do do do do Right Left Right Left Right alone Right Left Healthy do Patch of bony matter in mitral valves, otherwise healthy Large, cavities dilated, walls thickened Healthy Large globular vegeta- tions, J’oram. ovale open Right auricle and fora- men large Large, especially right adherent polypi Flaccid, 4 oz. ser. in peri- card. mit. valve indurat. Sound Distend, coats thin, internal reddened Distended Distended, coats thinned Sound Healthy Foramen ovale open, otherwise sound White spots on surface, sound Small, weighed 7 oz. Healthy — Redden eel Right alone Left do Right do Equally Right alone Left do do Right do Left do Right do , do do do Left do Right Left Healthy do do Hypertrophy with dila- tation of right side Healthy Large, mitral and aortic valves thickened Healthy Sound Healthy do do do Healthy do Large, flabby, foramen ovale open Healthy do do AFFECTIONS OF THE ABDOMINAL ORGANS. Stomach. Mottled Healthy Large, waxy Distend, coats thin, muc. at cardia soft. Large Large, dense, waxy Large scirrhous Blood ting.muc.coat ulcer in large curv. Healthy 4 ulcers in pyloric portion Softeningofmucous niemb. of cardia Red patches on mucus Distended with air Cardiac extremity softened Healthy Thinned in coats, cardiac end softened M em bi an e of cardia soft Liver. Glands (it lower part tu- bercular Enlarged glands at the lower part Ulcers in the lower part , Several ulcers in lower part Peyerian glands enlarged some ulcerated Ulcers in the lower part 3 or 4 |ulcers in lower part Nothing mor Large, pale, dark spots, fatty Firm Granular Large, pale, fatty Large, 7 lb. waxy Pole Pale, soft, greasy Large, cirrhotic cont. a few tuberc. Large, granular Small, hard, dark- yellow, granular Large, hard, mot- tled Mottled Hard and granular Large, pale 1 Small Intestines. Nothing mor bid found. Small inflamed ulcers in commencement Extensive ulceration. A perforation in coecuni Ulcers in the beginning Nothing mor bid found. Annular ulcer in ccecura bid found. Glands of lower part en- larged and ulcerated Other org All the or Large ulcs.in lower part com. in glands of Peyer Large deep ulc. corresp. patches in peritonieum Peyerian glands enlarged Glands enlarged and tu- bercular Glands enlarged com- Tiicn&fl? uicwwwn No ulce Large Intestines. do Ulcers in commence- ment ans sound, gans healthy. Extensive ulcerations in the beginning Extensive ulcers,onede- slroyed ileo-coccal valve 1 or 2 ulcers in ccecum 2 ulcers in caput ccecum One large ulcer in ccecum Glands large, a few ulce rated Ulcers in beginning of colon Mucous membrane dark congested Several ulcers in the commencement Pale, large, lace rable Large, pale, fatty Pale, greasy Pale and soft Pale, fatty Pale and fatty Others A few ulcers in lower part Glands enlarged with commencing ulceration Mesenteric Glands. Enlarged Enlarged and tubercular Enlarged and tubercular Much enlarg. Extensive ulcerations A few glands enlarged, no ulceration Glands enlarged with- out ulceration 2 ulcers on lower part, one on valve sound. Ulcers in beginning Ulcerated patches in be- ginning Some enlarged glands Numerous ulcers Small ulcers in com- mencement Small ulcers in colon Other Organs, Partial thickening of capsule of spleen r A piece of bone J of size and shape | of patella imbed- 1 ded in the spleen 2 stones in gall- bladder Pus & lymph in rt. iliac fossa & pelvis f A white hard |ar- { daccous tumour between layers of L mesocolon A few tubercles in the spleen 10 lb. of serum in peritoneal cavity Kidneys granular Several lbs. of se- rum in peritoneum Tubercles in spleen Somewhat en larged Healthy. No ulcer Glands enlarged, tuber- cular Mucousj membrane red, roughened, no ulceration Ulcerated in lower part Cicatrix of an ulcer in colon Several ulcers Same appearance as ileum Extensive in colon Kidneys pale and granulur J Omentum adhered partially tort.ovary