XVI, . Advertuements. I BEEF SOUP (Clear). Sew up loosely in a muslin bag 6 or 8 cloves, 12 allspice, and a small blade of mace. Put this with a pint or more of finely chopped vegetables of any kind available (the greater the mixture the better) into J gallon of water, and boll slowly*for an hour or more. Kemove the spice bag, and stir in 4 tablespoonfuls of Bovril, seasoning with pepper and salt to taste. Colour richly with caramel. (Thick). This soup may be thickened with little hits of butter rolled in flour. GAME SOUP. * Cut all the lean off the bones of any kind of cold game, venison, hare, partridge, pheasant, grouse, &c.,and put the bones and any trimmings into a pot with 2 or 3 carrots (sliced lengthwise), a turnip, an onion, bunch of sweet herbs, mushroom trimmings, salt, pepper, and a small bag containing 8 or 10 cloves, a teaspoonful of allspice, and a blade of mace. Upon this pour 3 quarts of water, and boil down to 2 quarts. In the meantime mince all the lein flesh (not less than 2 ibs.), pound it in a mortar. Strain off the stock, and stir in the potmded meat and 4 t iblespoonfuls of Bovril, a gill of wine, and the beaten yolks of 2 or 3 eggs. Pour into a tureen and serve with sippets, RESTORATIVE SOUP FOR INVALIDS. Boil a tablespoonful each of celery, carrots, onions, minced fine, 4 cloves and '8 peppercorns, in IJ pints of water for an hour. Strain off, and dissolve in the liquid 2 tablespoonfuls of Bovril and half a wineglassful of brandy. Adminis- tered in small quantities at frequent intervals will restore vitality with remarkable success. BOVRIL SAUCE (for Grills, Roasts, Stews, Entrees, &c.). Beat the yolk of an egg thoroughly, and stir into it a full tablespoonful of Bovril, 5 a tablespoonful of lemon juice, i a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, a teaspoonful of moist sugar, J a pint of water, salt and pepper to taste Stir this in a small pan over a quick fire until the sauce thickens. Serve hot, GRAVY FOR ROASTED MEATS (such as Beef, Lamb, Mutton, Pork and Veal) Pour the fat from the pan, leaving all the sediment you can retain. Dissolve from one to two tablespoonfuls of Bovril in 1 pint of hot water, or as much in proportion as is required for the size of the joint. Place the pan on the stove, dust in pepper and salt, and pour in the Bovril stock, stirring and rubbing to dissolve in all the sediment. Boil up and strain over the meat, or serve separately in a tureen. RAGOUT. Any meat wili serve to make up into a ragout, conditionally that a good sauce or gravy is prepared for it. Cut 2 lbs. of any kind of raw lean meat into J inch cubes, put them into a stew-pan with pints of water in which 2 tablespoonfuls of Bov'ril have been dissolved ; puton the cover and leave tills to simmer gently. Meantime put in the pan a bandlul of coarsely minced mushrooms, a wineglassful of while wine, a saltspoonful of salt and the same quantity of pepper. Make 1 tablespoonful of flour into a thin batter with water, and stir this into the ragoftt. Colouring a rich brown with caramel. When cooked this should be thick. Dress the dish with a border of mashed potatoes, and pour the ragoilt into this, and serve. Calf’s, or lamb’s, or pig’s liver makes an excellent ragout.