OBSERVATIONS ON SECTION III. OF PART II. of the Auriculo-Ventricular openings preceding those of the Semilunar Valves. Amongst the latter are-several examples of Retroversion of the Aortic Valves. Some account of this derangement of structure, which, with the exception of a very short incidental notice in the Work of Bertin, appears to have wholly escaped the observation of the Pathologists who have treated of the diseases of the Heart, was laid before the Hunterian Society, in a Letter addressed by the Editor to C. A. Key, Esq.-See Medical Gazette, 7. 3. 1829. The specimens of diseased Heart terminate with those in which the Pericardium is principally affected: and they are arranged with reference to the character of the pro- duct of inflammation, rather than with any view to the exciting cause. 1448 is a specimen in which Pericarditis led to the production of an irregular but complete bony ring round the base of the heart. In proceeding to the Arteries, the Pulmonary is taken before the Aorta and its branches. Amongst the Preparations of the Aorta, may be mentioned 1473, 1474, 1475, in which this vessel was spontaneously obliterated; and the three following, shew- ing the effect of Ligatures upon the Aorta of Dogs. The numerous cases of thickening, Ossification, and of Aneurism, do not require to be particularly pointed out. The Preparations relating to the different Arteries given off from the Aorta are placed in conformity to the order adopted in Part I. One of the most interesting specimens belonging to this part of the Section will be found on the Ground Floor, No. 9(50; and consists of a dry preparation of the right half of the Pelvis and the corresponding Thigh, and shews the state of the Anastomosing Vessels eighteen years after the obhteration of the external Iliac. It appears, from the experiments of those who have in- vestigated the effects of Ligatures applied to Arteries, that it is not merely by the dilatation of pre-existing Anasto- mosing Vessels that the interrupted circulation is main- tained ; but that there is also, at times, a production of new vessels, passing more or less directly from the upper to the