i8o AMPUTATION. formed will be for the most part anterior in position as far as regards the general aspect of the body, but superior when the patient is in the recumbent position, as during the after-treatment. The short flap, con! taamngthechief vessels and nerves, is in length one-third of the other Ihe flaps being formed, the bone sawn, and arteries tied, the long flap is folded oyer the end of the bone ; each of its free angles is then fixedVy sutures to the corresponding free angle f>f the short flap. One or two more sutures complete the transverse line of union of the flaps. At each side the short flap is united to the corresponding portion of the lonL' one by a point of suture, and one suture more unites the reflected portion of the long flap to its unreflected portion. Thus, the transverse line of i^'^^JJ^lOS™ ^^""^ ^"'^ ^ ^^^'''"^^ ^^^^ *°eles to Lister thinks this operation should be restricted to the lower part of the leg and just above the knee, when by turning to account the integu- ment over the patella, which is not used in ordinary operations, the anterior flap may be made of the requisite length without specially high division of the bone. •> s> Pirogoflf's Amputation.—" The operation is performed in the foUowing way:—An incision is earned across the sole of the foot from the tip of the external malleolus to the corresponding point on the other side, that will be^half an inch below and behind the internal malleolus. "This incision must not be made directly transverse to the foot but should incline forwards obliquely, so that the centre of the incision in the sole may be at least an inch in front of a line drawn across from the tip of one malleolus to the other. The flap thus traced is dissected for about two lines. Disarticulation of the astragalus is then eflFected in the usual way by an incision across the front of the foot. " The foot is now forcibly extended to the greatest possible extent, and a narrow amputating or a butcher's saw is applied to the upper and back part of the os calcis behind the astragalus, and the bone is cut obliquely downwards and well forwards ; the malleoli are then removed and a thin slice of the tibia, with the articular cartilage, taken off. The opposed osseous surfaces must then be accurately adjusted, the movable flap well supported by a broad strip of plaster, and the limb laid on the outer side with the knee placed so as to take off the tension of the tendo- Achillis." The advantages of the long oblique section of the os calcis over the shorter almost vertical cut originally made by Pirogoff, are, as Busk has pointed out, that a larger surface of bone is brought into contact ^vith the sawn ends of the bones of the leg, there is less tilting of the os calcis, and that the thick skin of the heel serves as the basis of support instead of the thin skin of the back of the heel. Sub-periosteal Amputation.—To prevent attenuation of the end of the bone or necrosis, Langenbeck has proposed that its divided surface should be covered with a long flap of periosteum formed in the course of the amputation. Dr. E,. Schneider holds that Langenbeck's proceeding does not always lead to such good results, and that the single flap of periosteum may slough. He recommends two short flaps of periosteum,