HEMORRHAGE. Dr. John Hunter, of the E.N., has designed three new forms of tourni- quets, which have the great advantage of allowing venous return. * Tourniquets in the hands of surgeons'have their undoubted advantages, but, at the same time, they are most dangerous in the hands of unin- structed men, who are exceedingly likely by the indiscriminate and prolonged use of them to cause gangrene of the limb. The Expedients that may be employed for the permanent arrest of Haemorrhage are—pressure, ligature, toi'sion, acupressure, flexion, cauterisation, application of cold, styptics, exposure to air, position, forci-pressure and application of hot water. Fig. 123. Torsion of Arteries, though used in former times, fell into^disuse, and was revived by Amussat and Velpeau. During the Franco-German War of 1870-71, Sir W. MacCormac appears to have used it with marked success. He says—"I twisted the vessels in a very large number of cases of amputation for gun-shot wounds. I only remember a snigle instance of secondary hajmorrhage from a twsted vessel. It was a case of amputation through the knee-joint, in which acute pyjemia supervened. Torsion," he says, "is more difficult and tedious in its application than a ligature. It is inapplicable when the arteries are diseased." It is doubtful if it is a safe expedient in the field, especially if it be necessary to transport the sufferer immediately after its application. Sir W. MacCormac used unlimited torsion for the smaller arteries. For the large vessels lying loosely in unaltered sheaths, he con.siders it better to limit the length of artery tmsted by grasping the vessel with a second forceps, otherwise the artery may be needlessly and dangerously disturbed in its relations to its sheath. He.twists until he feels the in- ternal coat giving way. Sir Spencer Wells has introduced a new kind of artery and torsion forceps, which very conveniently replace the old spring artery forceps of Listen, and the bull-dogs used for the temporary stoppage of bleeding vessels during an operation, while they are the most readily applied of any of the varieties of torsion forceps met with. The grasping and holding extremity is roughened by rather deeply-cut transverse teeth (fig. 124), so that the bleeding vessel is forcibly com- pressed and its coats almost crushed together. This is alone sufficient to stop the bleeding without any torsion, especially if the instrument be left on the vessel for a minute or more. * Lancet, July 15, 1876.