i^o WOUNDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. When spicula of bone present themselves they must be removed, ' 1 he patient must be supplied with good nourishing diet " Examination of Wound.—The condition of a fractured femur from a rifle bullet is always a matter of great obscurity, and it is therefore impossible to_ decide what steps should be adopted without making a most careful examination with a view to ascertaining the extent of injury. Long and deep incisions may have to be made, and the extent and number of them will depend upon the size and number of the splinters. It has been recommended that the wound of exit is the proper place to look for sequestra, as the baU, in passing through or traversing a limlj, naturally carries them with it. The depth of splinters in muscles is not to prevent incisions being made, nor should their proximity to large vessels or nerves interfere with a diligent search after them. It is of the most vital importance that completely detached splinters, as well as articles of clothing, the bullet itself, or other foreign bodies, should be removed, and with the least possible delay. The limb will soon swell, and become very painful, and the longer the operation is postponed the more painful is the case to the unfortunate patient, the more difficult to the surgeon, and the prospect of saving the limb more unfavourable. Much care will be required in removing small fragments in the after- treatment, and giving free vent to pus both in the neighbourhood of the wound and along the axis of the bone when abscesses form in connection with unobserved splinters. Sequestra and tlie Classification of them.—Dupuytren has divided sequestra into three classes—viz., Primary, Secondary, and Tertiary. The primary are those wholly separated; the secondary those partially adherent probably by a slight piece of tissue ; and the tertiary those which become necrosed. There are generally longitudinal sections into which the bone is split which are sometimes capable of consolidation. The wholly separated portions should be at once removed, as, if not, they soon set up irritation, abscesses, pyeemia, and the usual terrible results. Some doubts have existed as to the advisability of removing those under the class secondary or those partially adherent, from the supposed possibility of consolidation taking place; but it is now generally admitted that, in doubtful cases, or in those where the adherence of the sequestra is but slight, it is best to remove them ; the chances are so much in favour of their becoming wholly detached, and acting as foreign bodies, that the disadvantages of such a contingency are in no way counter- balanced by the fortunate circumstance of consolidation, which is remote. Guthrie, E.oux, Baudens, Legouest, and Begin were in favour of their removal, but possibly modern antiseptic treatment may not always demand this. Extension in Treatment of Gun-shot Fractures of the Femur.—In treating gun-shot fractures of the thigh-bone by conservative surgery, most competent authorities a.gree that it is best to keep up extension to a moderate degree; but, in the event of a portion of the bone being re-