PYEMIA. 228 follows a single, often very transitory infection, without the presence of a permanent local centre. Surgeon Sandford Moore, 4th Dragoon Guards, who had considerable experience when aiding the sick and wounded during the Franco-German War (lb70-71), remarks:-" Pyaemia and hospital gangrene proved as great scourges as ever in the hospitals. It seemed extraordinary how these diseases appeared in some buildings and not in others, although both apparently presented the same conditions for attracting the disease." tie also says that the diseases do not occur in hospital buildings until they have been occupied for at least ten days. He has not seen the diseases occur m a room for only one patient unless it was previously occupied by wounded, nor has he seen them occur among patients m the upper stories of a house. A room once poisoned, no disinfection or white-washing seems to be sufificient to drive away the poison imme- diately, for the remaining patients placed in the room speedily become pysemic also; and men with slight as well as severe wounds take pygemia. " The attack is usually very sudden, coming on generally between the tenth and twentieth days after receipt of injury, and is marked by severe rigor, followed by profuse perspiration, which will in all probabQity leave the patient apparently well, but will recur in a day or so, pro- ducing great depression, the pulse becoming feeble, rapid, or variable, often intermittent, and the temperature high, but is subject to consider- able fluctuation. The rigor may be preceded by secondary hsemorrhage, described as parenchymatous haemorrhage, characterised by general oozing from the surface of the wound or stump. "The sufferer maybe attacked with cough, vdth or without expec- toration, pleurisy, pneumonia, bronchitis, by peritonitis, pericarditis, or effusion in the head ; but these complications may be entirely absent, or exist separately. The appetite disappears, the tongue becomes dry and brown, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhoea supervene, the countenance becomes yellow or jaundiced, delirium sets in at night. The temper- ature is subject to considerable fluctuations of a marked character, and perspirations are still more profuse and exhausting, preceded by severe rigors ; abscesses rapidly form in the joints, or among the various tissues of the body ; these are of a widely-spread character, and very insidious, as they often occur without any local signs (the pus sometimes infiltrating the cellular tissue and muscles of a trunk to a great extent), and are most frequently met with in the axilla, in the groin, back, iliac fossa, thigh and calf of the leg, giving rise to much suffering and exhaustion, from which the patient rapidly sinks. The disease may be at first mistaken for ague, rheumatism, or typhoid fever, but the continued rigors, followed by profuse perspirations, exhaustion, and suppuration, will soon declare the true nature of the disease." The prognosis is most unfavourable. The disease is usually fatal, mild cases may recover, but when it is acute, the rigors quickly follow one another: when the pulse is unsteady, the temperature high, and the patient restless, the disease will in all probability prove rapidly fatal.