GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 59 If the wound of exit was as large as the tip of the little or index finger, it indicated that there was much comminution of bone with loose sphnters. Again, with reference to the bullets made of hardened lead enclosed m a metal covering, M. Delorme found that they could in some instances pierce a limb and shaft of a bone without undergoing any alteration of shape or breaking up, but if the leaden point of the bullet underwent any alteration of shape, from any cause, as striking a bone, &c., its casing at once stripped off, the leaden core breaking up into a number of minute pieces which were widely scattered in the disorganised and broken- up tissues. Examination of Wounds.—It is of the greatest importance that, on all occasions, strict cleanliness should be observed in the examination of wounds, especially on the battlefield, when the surgeon may inadvert- ently poison wounds by conveying dirt and blood and other septic matters on his hands. Wounds, therefore, should not be examined or fingered on the field of battle, but only interfered with in cases of haemorrhage or from some other urgent necessity. The surgeons of the first line of assistance should content themselves with applying some antiseptic covering to the wound to protect it until the i)atient can reach the dressing station or field hospital, where alone a thorough examination should be made. It must be obvious, upon the least reflection, that any interference with wounds on the field wOl be liable to render them septic. Dr. Carl Reyher, in the late Russo-Turkish campaign, insisted "that wounds were never to be examined at the front either with fingers or instruments, nor was any attempt to be made to extract the ball. The only exceptions were in the case of htemorrhage, and in cases where the IJrojectile had passed through one of the large cavities of the body, and, without wounding the contents, had remained in the wall of the cavity. Here he advised the removal of the ball at once for fear that it might, if left, fall back into the cavity implicated." "For surgeons at the front," he says, " there is only one line of treatment—to occlude the wound pro- visionally, to lay the wounded part in a suitable position on the litter, and to render it provisionally immovable. As a provisional dressing the salicylic balls recommended by Esmarch are the best." * On arrival of the patient at the field hospital, a thorough examination must be made. Here the surgeon will have all the needful appliances. If it is a case where a rifle ball has passed through the soft parts without injuring the bone, and there is no reason to susjiect that clothing or other foreign matter has been carried in ; if the edges of the wound fall fairly together, and if there has been no previous examination by fingers or probes, it would be right to abstain from any interference with the bullet track, and to be content with simply purifying the surrounding skin with a carbolic lotion, and then applying a dry antiseptic lint or pad to the wound of entrance and exit, and maintain the same by a good even bandage; accepting here Esmarch's opinion "that rifle bullets passing quickly through the clothes may not carry into the wound any * Antiseptic Surgery, by W. W. Cheyne, F.R.C.S.