EXCISION. followed by Morel. The patient being seated or laid on his back an in cision should be mac e w th a strong bistoury, commencing otmmS^ Z coracoid process and end ng about an inch behind and blithe root of the acromion. It should be semi-lunar in shape, llie extreme convexitv ,1".?^^If • r* -Vr^-"' r acromion, Ind thus tlfe Ser V deltoid will be included in this flap. The skin anndtoid b^ divided, the flap should be drawn upwards, a few touclSs of the S being sufficient to separate the loose connections of the muscles A bold sSTof tTl^ \^^'}^ t^^dons attacl^d tTthe ttbero sities of the humerus, dividing them and the capsule at the same time to such an extent as to permit the head of the bone being turned out bv a s ight twist. This part should then be laid hold of with the ifon forcepj by the surgeon or an assistant, and held steady while the saw is used to separate as much as may be necessary. If the operation is done for a shattered bone, its head cannot be thrult out Hke the end of a lever as thus directed ; and therefore the surgeon must make use of his ^Sers bp^ nf i '"'"''"'f rendering a Hmb useful after excision of the head of the humerus depends upon early passive movements, followed un by regular exercises with weight and pulley ^ Excision of the Clavicle.-It may be necessary to remove this bone whoUy or partially, and to perform the operation it is necessary to maki a free incision along its who e length ; it should then be disarticulated or sawn through at its acromial articulation, and dissected out from without inwards, the sternal end be forcibly twisted outwards, and all attach- ments carefully cut, great care being paid to the numerous small veins m this position. Excision of the Scapula (Symes Opemiion).-Make an incision from the acromion process transversely to the posterior edge of the scapula, and another from the centre of this one directly downwards to the lower angle ot the bone. The flaps formed being reflected back, separate the scapular attachment of the deltoid, and divide the connections of the acromial extremity of the clavicle. The division of the subscapular artery ^viU cause a great gush of blood, but it should be caught and secured ^vithout delay. Ihe joint and around the glenoid cavity should next be cut into and the fanger hooked under the coracoid process, so as to facihtate the division ot its muscular and ligamentous attachments ; and then, by pulimg back the bone with great force by the left hand, the remaining attachments should be divided with rapid sweeps of the knife Excision of the Elbow-joint maybe performed in three different ways —by a simple longitudinal incision, or by the |_| or The longi- tudinal incision is by far the best. It will require a cut 4 inches in lenoth having its centre opposite the tip of the olecranon. The triceps mus^cle will thus be divided into two portions, the inner one of which is the more firmly attached to the ulna, while the outer portion is continuous with the anconeous muscle, and sends some tendinous fibres to blend with the fascia of the forearm. The power of extension depends greatly upon these tendinous fibres, and every efi'ort should be made to preserve