INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 75 fracture, which usually extends from the point struck across the base of . the skull, not unfrequently running through the petrous portion of the 1 temporal bone or into the foramen magnum. This is a most serious I accident, and very commonly attended by fatal results; still, there are I instances of persons having lived for a considerable period after such injuries. Writers on this subject have endeavoured to lay down rules or particular signs and symptoms for certain seats of fracture in the base of the skull, but, unfortunately, such definite information does not help one in the treatment; it may, however, assist the surgeon in forming his diagnosis. A fissure extending through the anterior fossa may be accompanied by extravasation of blood into the orbit or eyelid, or there may be free haemorrhage from the nose. Should the middle fossa be implicated, there will very likely be fracture through the petrous portion of the temporal bone, with injury to the tympanum; there will then be a discharge of blood or serum from the ears. When the posterior fossa has been fissured, there niay be some diffi- culty in distinguishing the exact nature of the accident, unless the fracture passes through the petrous portion, and then there will be the characteristic signs of such an injury. Mr. Erichsen considers that "there are two signs, the occurrence of which, separately or together, leads to strong presumptive evidence in favour of the existence of this kind of fracture. These are, first, the escape of blood from the interior of the cranium through the ear, nose, or into the orbit; and secondly, the discharge of a serous fluid from the ears, and occasionally from other parts in connection with the base of the skull." He further says : " Bleeding from one or both ears after an injury of the head may arise from any violence by which the tympanum is ruptured, without the skull being necessarily fractured. If, however, the haemorrhage be considerable, trickling slowly out of the meatus in a continued stream, if the blood in the external ear pulsates, and more especially if the bleeding be associated witli other symptoms indicative of serious mischief within the head, and if it have been occasioned by a degree of violence sufficient to fracture the skull, we may look upon its supervention as a strong presumption that a fracture of the base of the skull, extending into the petrous portion of the temporal bone, has taken place. " Hsemorrhage into the connective tissue of the orbit and eyelid, with possibly protrusion of the eyeball itseK, accompanies fracture of the orbital plate of the frontal bone. The ecchymosis that occurs in these cases arises from the filtration of the blood from the interior of the skull, through the fracture, into the loose connective tissue contiguous to the injured bone. It dift'ers remarkably in appearance from that result- ing from a direct blow upon the eyelid—from a 'black eye.' In the latter case there is bruising of the skin, and the ecchymosis is in a great measure cutaneous of a reddish-purple colour. In the ecchymosis from fracture, the haemorrhage is entirely subcutaneous. There is probably no bruising of the eyelid, but this is tense, greatly swollen, and of a