WOUNDS OP JOINTS. 2. If a ball is impacted in the head of the bone, or if the epiphysis is much comminuted, unless there is injury to the blood-vessels and nerves, or very grave injury of the other soft parts, primaiy excision should be practised, 3. Concomitant fractures of the acromial end of the clavicle, or of the neck or processes of the scapula, or of the upper third of the shaft of the humerus, do not necessarily contra-indicate excision of the shoulder. 4. Intermediary excisions should seldom or never be practised. If, in an attempt at expectant conservative treatment, intense suppurative inflammation arises, it should be combated by free incisions, drainage, antiseptic applications, &c., and every endeavour should be made to avoid inflicting another wound upon the inflamed medullary tissue, and to await the second stage before undertaking operative interference. 5. The after-treatment of securing comparative immobility and sup- port of the limb, efficient drainage of the wound, and the ulterior after- treatment of judicious passive and active movements of the arm, are of essential importance in restoring the functions of the member. Wounds of the Elbow-Joint. Punctured and incised wounds of the elbow may usually be treated on a conservative plan, with every hope of recover}', reserving secondary excision until rendered necessary by inflammatory disorganisation. The bones forming the elbow-joint may be slightly injured by sabre cut, buUet, or fragment of shell. In the event of the external wound being slight, and the bone only partially damaged, that is, splintered about the condyles, olecranon, or radius, or if a bullet or other foreign body is lodged in the lower end of humerus or condyles, it will be neces- sary to remove all loose splinters, to extract the foreign body, to wash out the wound, and to follow a strictly antiseptic treatment. The joint will in all probability be stiff, but the patient will have the advantage of a forearm and hand; and here it is that experience may do so much in saving a wounded soldier from excision or amputation. By careful exaEpination with the finger immediately, or as soon as possible after receipt of injury, the exact condition of the joint may be ascertained, and the necessary operative measures at once carried out. Guthrie observes—" When the articulating ends of the humerus, radius, and ulna are wholly or in part injured by a musket-baU, it was formerly the custom to amputate the arm in such instances of great mischief; an operation which should be superseded by that of excision of the joint." Excision of the elbow-joint, in the hands of British military surgeons, has been attended with most happy results. Porter says he has seen some useful limbs after the operation capable of lifting weights, and unaccompanied by pain or numbness. The Period of Election for Excision of the Ulboio.—We have it on the authority of Heyfelder and other experienced surgeons that, as in amputation after shot wounds, a favourable result of the operation is so much more to be expected the earlier the resection is performed.