FOOTSORENESS. 239 " 5 Citrates, tartrates, lactates, and malates of potash should be issued in bulk, and used as drinks, or added to the food Potash shouM be selected as the base, as there is seldom any chance of the supply of soda bein- lessened. The easiest mode of issuing these salts would be to have packets containing enough for one mess of twelve men, and to instruct the men how important it is to place them m the soups or stews. Possibly they might be mixed with the salt, and issued merely as salt. " Amchurconsists of peeled mango. The green mangoes are peeled the stones removed, and the cut pulp is sun-dried. Sixty-seven^raiiis of amchur contain 19 grains of citric and mahc acids, and are, therefore, equivalent to gi of lime-juice.f , ., . , , „^ , Iron in the form of the tincture of the perchloride, m doses of 30 drops three times a day, has been recommended by Dr. Hammond for this disease. Attention should be paid to cleanliness, air, and exercise. FOOTSORENESS. Professor Parkes remarks—" Footsoreness is generally a great trouble, and frequently arises from faulty boots, undue pressure, chafing, riding of the toes from narrow soles, &c. Eubbing the feet with tallow or oil, or fat of any kind, before marching is a common remedy. A good plan is to dip the feet in very hot water before starting, for a minute or two ; wipe them quite dry, then rub them with soap (soft soap is the best) till there is a lather; then put on the stocking. At the end of the day, if the feet are sore, they should be wiped with a wet cloth, and rubbed ^yith tallow and spirits mixed in the palm of the hand (Galton). Pedestrians frequently use hot salt and water at night, and add a little alum. Some- times the soreness is owing simply to bad stockings ; this is easily remedied. Ij.tockings should^be frequently washed, then greased. Some of the German troops use no stockings, but rags folded smooth over the feet. This is a very good jjlan. " Very often soreness is owing to neglecteil corns, bunions, or ingrowing nails ; and the surgeon must not despise the little surgery necessary to remedy these things; nothing, in fact, can be called little if it conduces to efficiency. " If blisters form on the feet, the man should be directed not to open them during the march, but at the end of the time to draw a needle and thread through the blister; the fluid then gradually oozes out. " All footsore men should be ordered to reitoit themselves at once. Chafing. — " Occasionally men are much annoyed with chafing between the nates or inside of the thighs. Sometimes this is simply owing to the clothes, hnt sometimes to the actual chafing of the parts. Powders are said to be the best—flour, oxide of zinc, and above all, it is said, Fullers' earth." ♦Parkes' Manual of Practical fJygihie, p. 492. t Appendix to A. M. D. Reports^'Vi'il, p. 343.