157 AMPUTATION. present day is, when the operation is inevitable, to perform it as soon as it can be done, provided the more intense effects of the "shock, where it has supervened on the injury, have passed away. ^ • t Mr Guthrie is of opinion that when the wound of an extremity is ot so serious a nature as to preclude all hope of saving the hmbby successtul treatment, it should be amputated as soon as possible ; and, further, the advantao-eous results of primary amputations, or those done withm the first twenty-four hours, or at most forty hours, over secondary amputa- tions, or those done at the end of several days, or of three or four weeks, have been so fully and firmly established as no longer to admit of any ^^in"the present day primary amputations are discouraged at the dressing stations on the field of battle, because of the extrenie difficulty m carrying out an antiseptic line of treatment in such a situation. ■,• -j j • . Amputations in warfare have for a very long time been divided into primary and secondary. Mr. Alcock has introduced a third penod, "the intermediary," and these three have been accepted by many sur- geons to denote periods in which amputation may or may not be per- formed. He defines the three periods as follows:—Primary, or the period between the receipt of the injury and the appearance of inflammatory symptoms; intermediary, or the period when the inflammatory action has commenced, and is more or less capable of disturbing the animal economy; secondary, when the violence of the inflammatory symptoms and sympathetic fever have abated, that is, when the suppurative stage is fully established. It is now generally admitted that when amputation is necessary, it should be performed at once, the condition of the sufferer being duly considered, that is, if the shock exists to an alarming extent, it is best to delay the operation, and administer cordials, apply warmth to the extremities, and wait till reaction is established ; but if it be not very intense, the operation can be performed under the influence of chloro- form with the most satisfactory results. Macleod remarks, witli_ regard to the use of chloroform, that by its use the fear of intensifying the shock is obviated. Amputations after septic inflammatory action has set in are generally attended by most unsatisfactory results. Operations or examination of wounds should never be performed during the intermediary state or period of inflammation, when the constitution is in a most unfavourable condition for such undertakings, and all operations are likely to be attended by the most serious results. Secondary amputations are not so successful in military as in civil f)ractice, when the operation is generally performed for disease and not or injury. In warfare the cases requiring it are profuse haemorrhage, which does not admit of the ordinary measures of suppression ; gun-shot fractures, when the bones do not unite, and the patient is worn out with suppuration, irritation, necrosis, caries, and all the painful accompani- ments of a shattered and useless limb ; and cases when traumatic gan- grene has attacked a severely contused limb.