INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 79 advocated it in complicated fracture of the skull and after the Franco- German war, 1870-71, he expressed himself as follows : "I have tried to exclude entirely from military practices the use of the trephine as use- less in some, and unnecessary in other cases." He considers a state ot coma from depressed skull no more as an indication for applying tne trephine, than a comatose state in typhus as an indication to rouse the patient from it by any means except those which are in accordance witH his general state—as cold, for instance, but not stimulants. As soon as the fragments of the skuU become detached by suppuration, the comatose state ceases by itself. . . Porter says—" These are the rules which guide us m private practice, but I found in my experience in the army that they did not hold good. The injuries of the head are there so much more violent that I am inclined to thinlc non-intervention to be the safer practice. I believe I have seen more injuries of the head recover without trephining than with. Ihe opinion I have formed on this most important subject, after some ex- perience in military practice, is that when symptoms of compression exist from depression of the inner table, or both tables, with splintering or extravasation, it is necessary to remove the cause, if possible,^ by some surgical means ; and, that of the instruments in use, the trephine is the most objectionable, requiring considerable force, and consequently liable to cause additional injury to the sensitive brain and its membranes. I therefore consider the use of the elevator. Key's saw, the chisel and mallet better suited for the operation than the trephine." When surgical interference is necessary, too much care in the mani- pulation of instruments cannot be observed during the operation, but if careful antiseptic precautions are taken there is no undue risk in trephin- ing ; if, however, the operation is delayed until septic inflammation has supervened then the results are not likely to be satisfactory. There is no operation that requires greater nicety or delicacy than the removal or elevation of depressed bone or extraneous bodies from the surface or substance of the brain ; but to secure success much is required in the after-treatment, such as jjerfect quietness, cold to the head, and avoidance of any excitement. During the Indian Mutiny, 1857, at the battle of Sultanpore, a soldier of the_ 10th Foot was wounded in the head causing a depressed fracture, which rendered him insensible. The surgeon of the regiment elevated the depressed bones, and sensibility immediately returned. The sufferer was progressing satisfactorily, when the necessity for shifting camp iiroduced great dis- turbance, and brought on a train of unfortunate cerebral symptoms from which he died. Some authorities have raised a question as to the best period for using the treishine—that is, on the first or seventh day. Mr (iuthrie expresses himself in the following terms :—" I do not hesitate to say the first, believing the violence to be greater when done on parts already in a state of inflammation than when they are sound." Another eminent authority remarks on this point—"Danger does not arise from early operation, but from delay." There is no doubt that if it is necessary or advisable to use the trephine or elevate the bones, the sooner the operation is