MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. 215 Porter witnessed several cases of gangrene of the feet from exposure, both in camp and in the trenches. Those who were attacked by the disease in the trenches had their feet first wet by the mud and constant rain, when frost suddenly set in, and in consequence of the impossibility of moving about, the circulation became arrested. Those who_ were attacked in camp found their feet numb and helpless on rising in the morning, having lain down on damp ground without removing their wet socks or boots, the result frequently being loss of both feet. The treatment adopted was to control the fever of reaction, support the constitution, and allow the dead portions to separate from the living, assisting them by the means already described in gangrene from lacera- tion or braises, and subsequently detaching with great care such parts as were disorganised. This gangrene may, to a certain extent, have been brought about by a scorbutic taint, as the ulcers which remained were most difficult to heal. Acute Spreading Gangrene.*—Cheyne saysf—"All the facts point to the spread of micro-organisms in the tissues as the cause of acute spreading gangrene and phagedtena. This is a most acute and fatal form of infective inflammation, following punctured, contused, or lacerated wounds, particularly when complicated with bone or joint injuries, and where there are facihties for the retention of putrid blood and discharge in the recesses of the wound." The causes are believed to be the presence of micro-organisms which have gained access to the subcutaneous connective tissue through the wound. They spread with great rapidity, producing as they grow ptomaines or tox-albumins, which destroy the tissues by theii" direct destructive chemical action on the protoplasm of the tissue cells. The symptoms as described by Mr. Marcus Beck, are, at first, those of ordinary septic inflammation, the result of pent-up decomposing dis- charges. There is febrile disturbance of the septic type, there are pain and swelling in the wound, with a blush of redness extending for some distance on each side of it. The swelling, redness, and tension spread upwards and are speedily followed by a dusky purplish tint, by a soft doughy feeling of the part. This is accompanied by emphysematous crackling due to the presence of gases in the decomposing connective tissue. That portion of the limb which is below the gangrenous part becomes pale, cold, and oedematous. The portion which is above becomes rapidly infiltrated by serous exudation. The process has no tendency to limit itself; the oedema and peculiar discoloration extend higher along the inner side of the limb, where they always first reach the trunk. As the gangrene advances, the parts affected fall into a soft pidpy black mass. It wiU be observed that the disease extends through the con- nective tissue, the skin falling secondarily into slough. The constitutional symptoms early assume the character of acute septic poisoning, the patient sinking into a prostrate condition and the temperature falling below normal. Treatment.—It is of no use to wait for a line of demarcation. Erichsen * For report of a case see A. M. D. Report for 1886, Appendix X., page 352. t" AntUeptic Treatment of Wounds.