WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. 98 collapse or death takes place immediately. The former is usually tollowed by inflammation, oppression, dyspnoea, great appearance of distress, small pulse, and pam at the seat of injury. The wound should be closed, if large ; the sufferer kept perfectly quiet, and strict anti- septic treatment enforced. Wounds of the Heart.-When the heart is wounded, the injuries may not penetrate into the cavities. Instances have been known where loreign bodies have lodged and become encysted in the structures of the organ. 1 penetrating wounds the results have been immediately fatal from loss oi blood and shock, but sufferers have lain for several days in con- sequence of the wound closing by contraction, or by the lodgment of a coagulum preventing effusion of blood into the pericardium or pleura. J recorded that in cases which immediately prove fatal, the wounded man appears to spring off the ground, or falls dead without convulsion or apparent knowledge of being injured. If the injury does not prove fatal immediately, there will be collapse followed by great distress and oppression of breathing, anxious countenance, pulse very weak, pallid face. Subsequently there may be all the complications of inflammation of the endocardium. " The external wound should be accurately closed and all escape of blood prevented, provided, in doing so, suffocation is not induced by blood hUing the cavity of the pericardium or pleura, in which case relief may be obtained by allowing some blood to escape." Wounds^of the Diaphragm.—John Bell, in speaking of these wounds, remarks—" Though wounds of the diaphragm are not material in them- selves, yet the diaphragm can hardly be touched but in mortal wounds I.e., wounds touching both cavities—viz., of the thorax and of the abdomen, when most frequently the stomach, lungs, pericardium, or heart are either wounded or are soon inflamed, and so drawn into disease." The surgeon may recognise these wounds, first by the position of the injury in either chest or abdomen, and if there are evidences of a missile or weapon having penetrated ; also by the following symptoms—hiccough, spasmodic or jerldng breathing, pain in the top of shoulder, or loss of power in the arm. There maybe nausea or vomiting, and if the liver lias been injured, jaundice may occur. If the stomach or intestines have been wounded, blood wiU, iu all probability, appear either by vomiting or in the stools. A wound of the diaphragm may give rise to a hernia in the chest; it will, therefore, be necessary for the sufferer to remain in the upright position during the process of recovery, to avoid bending as much as possible ; _and, in the event of recovery taking place, care should be observed in eating small quantities and standing erect after meals, avoid- ing bending or straining, as a wound of the diaphragm is supposed never to close except under rare and peculiar circumstances. A patient, there- fore, once wounded through that muscle would always be liable to hernia." Hennen says— " Of the wounds of the diaphragm, I have never met one