109 WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. passing through only the peritoneal and muscular coats and never including the mucous membrane. The everted mucous membrane must be carefully inverted, and needs no further treatment. Parkes thinks that it makes no difference whatever what kind of suture is used, so that the iDrinciple of positively securing the application of two broad sur- faces of peritoneum in contact with each other is certainly carried out. Jobert's, G-ely's, and Czerny's double row of sutures were all given a fair trial, but none of them resulted as well as this modified Lembert's stitch. After the intestines have been dealt with, the peritoneal cavity will require a thorough cleansing and this, in the opinion of the most ex- perienced men, is best done by flushing. Sufficient warm water must be used until it returns quite clear. Mr. Meredith * writes "that drainage and flushing have revolutionised abdominal surgery. The employment of drainage tubes of small calibre, and duly protected against septic decomposition, had done much to render drainage safe and efficacious. The plan of flushing, combined with drainage, has proved of immense value in abdominal operations, especially when undertaken for injury to, or rupture of, the hollow viscera. The addition of antiseptics to the water used is fraught with the risk of poisoning, even the precaution of using water previously boiled is not essential to success provided a fluid was used which was not itself contaminated with septic material." All sponging should be avoided. In closing the wound the deep stitches must be passed before any are tightened. After the sides of the wound have been brought together by the deep stitches, which must embrace the whole thickness of the abdominal walls, finer stitches may be put in to bring the edges of the skin in contact. M. Pozzi, of Paris, when closing a wound made in abdominal section, stitches the different layers separately, he first sews up by continiious gut-suture the peritoneal eclges, then the aponeurotic edges, and lastly the skin and subcutaneous tissue ; by this means he thinks he gets a firmer scar. If thought necessary a drainage tube must be passed into the most dependent part of tlie cavity and brought out at the lowest angle of the wound. The dressing should consist of abundant folds of sal alembroth wool, or other dry absorbent antiseptic material retained in place by sufficient pressure ])y means of a bandage. After most abdominal operations the patient should be kept without food for from twenty-four to forty-eight hours. A small quantity of iced soda-water or barley-water may be given to allay thirst. The position of the patient is important; it should be one that admits of the abdominal muscles being relaxed. How far this practice of abdominal section for injury can be carried out in the field has yet to be decided. Here the hurry, the dirt, and confusion, the want of repose and sufficient assistance, all tend to make the operation difficult. It is not an operation that could be attempted at a dressmg station, and when the unfortunate man arrives at the field hospital it will in most cases be too late. M. Delorme of the Val de Grace writes—" When a citizen of a large town has his abdomen penetrated by a bullet either in an attempt at suicide or homicide, he . * F.^Pa"" " rresent Position of Abdominal Surgery," read before Medical Society by W. A. Meredith.—Brit. Med. Journ., April 19th, 1S90.