WOUNDS OF THE CHEST, 97 the portion of rib to be removed, then reflect the periosteum by means of an elevator from off the portion of the rib, divide the rib with cutting forceps at either end, and the piece of rib will be easily removed from its bed. Hernia of the Lung or Pneumocele.—This complication may occur immediately after receipt of injury, while the chest wound is open or when it has healed. This latter is a rare occurrence, but may take place when the intercostals have been much injured and weakened. It has been known to occur from fractured ribs -wdthout any wound, the pleura and intercostal muscles having been ruptured. This description of hernia should be treated by supports, the tumour having been pushed back. When there is an extensive wound of the chest, it may occur by violent efforts in coughing or in expiration. The tumour jDreseuts a livid appearance, and if not soon returned will become gangrenous. "Or, from exposure the prolapse shrinks, becomes dry and carnified and covered with granulations, gradually diminishes in size, and finally cicatrises over, and has been known to return spontane- ously into the cavity of the thorax. A prolapse of omentum through the walls of the chest may be mistaken for a prolapse of the lung. Such protrusions are to be discriminated from prolapse of the lung by their soft, fatty, reddish, and irregular feel and appearance and by the absence of crepitation."—Lyell* It is resonant on percussion, and if a stethoscope is applied to it a crackling or rubbing soiind will be heard. It may be returned if seen at once, provided it has not been strangulated, or it may be removed by the knife or by ligature. Mr. Guthrie recommends—"It should be allowed to remain, or be only so far returned, if it can be so managed, as to rest within the edges of the divided pleura and fill uj) the gap made by the incision, over which the integuments should be accurately drawn and retained. The ailhesion of the lung to the pleura costalis arrests the inflammation, and may prevent its progress in other parts of the cavity. "Whenever the protruded lung has been completely returned, more inflammation has followed than where it has been allowed to remain under the precautions recommended. The protruded lung, when left uncovered and uni^rotected, soon looses its natural Ijrilliancy, dies quickly, shrinks, and becomes livid without being gangrenous. In such cases, the protruded part may be removed ; but it should never be separated at its base from its attachment to the pleura costalis by which it is sur- rounded." M. Legouest recommends that the tumour be allowed to faU off, and he advises dressing it in the ordinary manner, protecting the parts from injury and preventing inflammation. Above aU, to repair the lesions which have favoiired the formation of the rupture. Wounds of the Pericardium or Heart.—These injuries may occur from severe blows on the chest, by puncture, stab, or gun-shot. The peri- cardium may be injured and the heart escape. When the pericardium is injured, the patient appears in a state of * Art. " Injuries of the Chest," Holmes- System of Surgery, vol. i. 7