139 WOUNDS OF JOINTS. of resection of joints. In his writings, he says that he has formed his opinion on the cases he has seen among the Danes who were wounded during the war between Germany and Denmark in 1864, and being one of the members of the Pension Committee he has had an opportunity of annually inspecting these cases. " In the majority of instances the patients reported to be cured were left with useless dangling limbs, and the Danish surgeons, as well as the patients, both agree that amputation would have been preferable ; for it would have saved the latter from being burdened with limbs which are not only cumbersome and power- less, but also sources of frequent pain, atrophy of the extremity in which the resection has been performed, coldness, numbness, and contrac- tions."* Professor Hannover's remarks have been reviewed, and the reviewer naturally points out that most surgeons must be familiar with some cases in Avhich not only full use of the hand and fingers has been retained after resection of one of the large joints of the upper extremity, but consider- &hle power in certain movements of the whole limb. Even one such successful instance is sufficient to annul a general condemnation of the operation itself. The late Dr. Loeffler, of the Prussian Military Medical Service, who operated in some of the cases referred to by Professor Hannover, has stated that in various instances the Professor relied upon certificates furnished by surgeons in different parts of Denmark, not for scientifio purposes, but with the object of showing the necessity for a continuance of the pension to the invalided soldiers who had been the subjects of the wounds which led to the operation of resection.f It is quite possible, as Dr. Loeffler suggests, that the same attention may not have been given to the after-treatment as in Germany, and that the climate of Denmark is not very favourable for patients after resection. Mr. Erichsen, in his valuable work on surgery, gives the following as indications for excision :— 1. Excision may be required in bad compound dislocations and frac- tures into joints, especially in gun-shot injuries, more particularly in those of the head of the humerus and of the elbow. 2. As a substitute for amputation in cases in which the joint is so extensively diseased that the patient will be worn out by the discharge, or pain, unless it be removed. Here a useful limb may be secm'ed by the sacrifice of the diseased part. 3- In some cases of articular disease, in which amputation would not be justifiable, excision may be performed in order to hasten the cure, and thus to save years of sufi'ering to the patient. 4. Excision may be performed in cases in which amputation is not practicable, as in disease of the hip-joint, or of the temporo-maxillary articulation. 5. As a substitute for other and less efficient treatment, in order to * Briiish Medical Journal, January 15, 1870. t British Medical Journal, May 28, 1870.