SERVICE IN THE FIELD. 23 i Summary to show a comparison between Wheel and Pack Transport for a Bearer Company in the Field :— Pack Transpokt. Eemarka. At 1 driver to 3 mules. At 1 driver to 2 mules. At I driver to 3 mules. a Ambulance carts have only 1 driver and 2 horses each. 6 Depends on the number of additional stretchers ordered. N.B.—Details in italics are furnished by C. and T. Corps. * One supply cart, one tent cart, and one water cart are supplied with the 12 wagons to complete the equipment when wagons are used. For ijlan of encampment see fig. 27. clothes specifying the regiment, number, rank, and name, with the nature of the injury, the treatment, &c., they will be placed in the ambulance wagons of the second line and taken to the field hospitals. The amount of attention that should be paid to the wounded at the dressing station would differ very materially according to the distance of the field hospitals ; if the latter were close at hand, little or no interference would be required, but if a considerable distance has to he traversed, and many.hours have to elapse before the field hospital coidd be reached, surgical operations of all kinds might have to be performed to bring them within the range of primary operations, that is ■within the first thirty hours, after that the operations would have to be classed as inter- mediate, and this is the period no surgeon would willingly choose. The quarter-master sergeant with two cooks, batmen, and baggage should be placed a little in rear of the dressing station, and arrange so as to have a meal ready for the men of the company after the action is over. After the engagement a close search should be made for any wounded men, or men apparently dead, and lanterns for searching in the dark form part of the equipment. The arms, ammimition, and accoutrements of a wounded man are always to be picked up and carried with him to the dressing station and field hospital, but great care should be taken to see that the rifle is not loaded before it is carried away. The Second Line of Medical Assistance consists of the Field Hospitals. Wheel Tkansport. Description ov Stores, C3 tn u m u Wagol Carts. Drive: Horse Drive 9 ivieciicai anci surgio<ii biui cb, 1 2 h 11 Baggage and reserve rations. 1 2 h h 12 Supplies, 1* 1 1 2 Tents, 1* 1 1 U Ambulance, 16 lOcr 20 kO 6 b Water, 1* 1 1 3 Spare, 1 3 Total, 12 17 27 5h 12 35