174 AMPUTATION. knee, m the middle or lower third. If the operation is too close to the knee the stump is apt to become flexed, and so become an inconrnience and if It IS in the lower third the stump is too Ion- for conveS?e In the amputation below the knee-joint 4 inches of tibi^sSd be left Antero-posterior skin flaps of equal length may be made, and the bones divided somewhat higher up ; or, again! the modified cir'cXr opeSn IS apphcable in this situation But the former method by long anterio? flaps IS grea% to be preferred to any other on account of the excellent on W;f^' f Po^*^"o^, P' being short, may be made of integument on^ without any risk of sloughing; on the other hand, the anterior flap "TS^i^^T*^^' ""^^^ ^« ^"^t'-^in a QooA deal of muscle. A difficulty in retracing the soft parts from the bones arises Fig. 103. from the intimate attachment of the muscles to the fibula, but if these are divided through an extension upward of the outer longitudinal incision, no difficulty is experienced, unless the tissues are condensed by inflammatory thickening, in effecting retraction of the remaining soft parts from the tibia. " Again, the anterior tibial artery, on which the flap depends for its nutrition, lies close to the interosseous membrane, and would be verj' liable to be punctured during the dissection if we did not follow Mr. Teale's advice in conducting it. He pointed out that, in consequence of the looseness of the cellular connections of the interosseous membrane, there is no difficulty in separating the parts in front from its surface with the finger tip, while dividing with the knife the attachments of the muscles to the bones. In this way the artery is secured from any chance of injury, "Immediately above the ankle the operation is performed as follows: — The diameter of the limb having been ascertained by spanning it, a straight longitudinal incision of that length is made at the inner side of the leg, and on the outer aspect another similar incision directly over the fibula and extending an inch higher up. The lower ends of these incisions are connected by cutting across the front of the limb in a direction trans- verse in the main but rounded off where it joins the lateral lines. The knife is next carried round the back of the limb to the bones from the