SERVICE IN THE FIELD. i Summary to show a comparison between Wheel and Pack Transport for a Field Hospital in the Field :— Deboription of Stokes. WHEliL TRANSPOHT. ■ Pack Transport. a O bo a 4 2 6 CO 1 o 8 4 1* 1* 2* 16 n > u p 8 u 1 ■1 16 cr (U n ^< O w 16 8 2 k S3 1 Drivers. Mules. Remarks. Medical and surgical stoves, Baggage and reserve rationR, Supplies, Tents (for personnel), "Water, Spare, Total, 9 7 1 6 M 38 37 30 3 18a 8 8 83 At 1 driver to 3 mules. At 1 driver to 2 mules. At 1 driver to 3 mules. a Including tents for sick. N.B.—The details shown in italics are furnished by the Commissariat and Transport Oorps. « Note.—Oue supply cart, one tent cart, anil two water carts are supplied with the six wagons complete the equipment when wagons are used. For plan of encampment sea flg. 28. When field hospitals are required the M.O. in charge will direct the quarter-master to draw the necessary stores and equipment from the Eoyal Arsenal, Woolwich, and the medical officer is responsible for the equipment of the 2'>ersonnel and accounting officer for the equipment and stores of the hospital. It is most important that the personnel and materiel should embark together, which they are now ordered to do. The transport is regulated in the same manner as for the Bearer Company, and is supplied by the A.S.C. It is directed that the transport officer or warrant officer A.S.C. will take orders from officer commanding the Bearer Company or Field Hospital, and is responsible for the horses being harnessed and hooked in at the time and jdace appointed. Four field hospitals are supplied to each Division, one is attached to each Brigade, and two in reserve for Division Corps troops if necessary. The number for an Army Corps is fourteen, including two attached to the Cavalry Brigade and Corps troops. The regulations lay down that all will be fully equipped and each supplied with transport, so as_ to be independently movable and available for any service. On the line of march they follow the bearer companies, the men of which, on request, will assist in pitching the hospital tents when a camp is formed. Each hospital is so arranged as to be capable of dividing into half hospitals for 50 iDatients. They are non-dieted, and all patients bring with them their kits, arms, and accoutrements, which have to be entered in detail in the Pack-store Book, A.F., 182. It is most important that every man's name should be at once entered in the Admission and Discharge