INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 77 * Brit. Med. Jour., Dec. 6, 1880. ' Vomiting may occur, which is generally considered a good sign as it stimulates the heart's action, and causes the blood to flow through the , vessels of the brain. As circulation is being gradually established, the I pulse becomes fuller, and the surface warmer. When the injury has j been more severe, the symptoms are more marked ; there is complete prostration, eyes glassy, pupils may be contracted or widely dilated, surface cold, and, in fact, the patient appears moribund. These symp- toms may last for hours, or merge into the severer complications of com- ( pression, and ultimately be followed by epileptic convulsions. In concussion the breathing is rarely stertorous, a symptom which, if present and continual, might be considered as one of compression. Treatment of Concussion.—lu the first stage, or that of collapse, the patient should be let alone and allowed to rally ; but if it is extreme or unusually prolonged, an endeavour should be made to revive the energies I of the nervous system and circulation by application of warmth to the j body by means of hot jars or bottles, blankets, and employment of friction j to the surface. Administer warm drinks, but no stimulants, unless reac- tion cannot be brought about without them, and then they should be ' given in very small quantities, their action being carefully observed, i The administration of an enema, containing some aromatic spirits of I ammonia, has been recommended. Reaction having talcen place, the object is to try and prevent inflammatory action. There should be perfect quietness, mentally and bodily, in a darkened room, the latter having a decided influence in preventing congestion. Cold should be applied to the head, mercurial purgatives administered, stimulants avoided, or excess in diet or excitement of any kind. Mr. Victor Horsley suggests * that in simple as well as in compound cases of laceration of the brain, if there is any depression of skuU, it should be raised ; but if not, trephine, freely open dura-mater, wash out clots, remove hopelessly- bruised brain, suture dura-mater, and return bone. By such means the remote or, even sometimes, immediate consequences of epileptic convul- sions may be prevented or entirely removed. Compression means pressure on the brain by a portion of bone, bullet, extravasation of blood, or formation of pus, or anything that may press upon, or enter into its substance, causing characteristic symptoms, some of which are as follows :—Insensibility, breathing heavy, laboured, slow, accompanied by stertor; cannot be roused ; there is a peculiar noise caused by the breath being emitted from the corner of the mouth, some- thing like a puff or whiff, caused by the velum pendulum palati hanging down in the mouth ; the pulse is usually slower than is natural, but at times irregular and occasionally quick. If the shock has been slight, the countenance is flushed ; but if it has been great, it wiU be found pale and livid. The sufferer may be convulsed and unconscious of anything about him. The pupils appear to vary according to the part of the brain injured, and are not afl'ected by the degree of injury. At first they are generally contracted, subsequently dilated, or one may be contracted and the other dilated; and as the disease advances, or becomes aggravated, they are