HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 220 surrounding mtegumenta became tumefied, of an anserine appearance, and extremely sensitive to the touch ; at about the distance of thf fourth of an inch from the base of the tumour, a distinct areola of a bluish red colour niade Its appearance, and remained visible for several days At this period circumstances rendered it necessary for him to be exposed to ivnli f "^'^^^^o considerable fatigue, and immediately afterwards to travel to a considerable distance. The inflammation, however, gradually nnS? :i stinging, accompanied by the burning sensation, still continued ; and the sore had no disposition to heal, yet it did not enlarge i^™'^^^^','^'^* disposed to burrow under the integuments Mr. Taylor, late of H. B M. 29th Regiment, experienced an epidemic at rerozepore, in India. He remarks-" First, I could tell, by the peculiar dark florid countenance of the patient, that his wound had taken on the gangrenous affection; yet I cannot say that there was in these cases any marked inflammatory fever. In many cases the disease seemed purely local; but in the great majority there was certainly much teyerish constitutional disturbance accompanying the local affection, and often preceding it." The causes of this disease are, then, associated with the growth of micrococci m the wound; consequently, it is highly contagious, and, therefore, aggravated by overcrowding of patients. Experience has shown that when once a building has been contaminated with this disease it will be dangerous to place in it any woimded men • the building- ought to be vacated. ° There is no doubt as to its highly contagious and infectious character, that it is capable of being transmitted by nurses, clothing, dressin^-s' instruments, sponges, and by atmospheric dust; that it attacks wounds m every stage and condition; that it can be inoculated ; that it is generally aggravated by overcrowding of wounded, bad ventilation, want of cleanliness, privation, intemperance, and previous exposure, but that there are occasions when it occurs in the form of an epidemic, notwith" standing the most rigid and careful sanitary regulations ; that it appears in all climates, in all seasons and weather, the wet and moist or very cold being most favourable to its production; and, finally, that there may be predisposing causes, such as patients having a scorbutic taint, an enfeebled constitution, or a nervous system depressed by the effects of a severe operation. The symptoms in every feature of the disease have been so AveU described by Hennen, Blackadder, and Taylor, in the foregoing remarks, that it is not necessary to repeat them. With regard to the treatment of this formidable disease, no specific has as yet been laid down for its cure, but each medical officer who has had the misfortune to meet with it has recommended such treatment as he found most successful. The first consideration of the surgeon will be to try and prevent a further spread of the disease, by removal of the infected jiatient from among the other wounded, and by prophylactic measures, such as the use of antiseptics, plenty of fresh air, strict sanitary arrangements in and about the hospital buildings, destruction by fire of all dressings, the