LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. 207 In these two operations the first incision should be exactly upon the margin of the stemo-mastoid, and the sheath of the artery should be opened well on the inner side to keep clear of the internal jugular vein. The Lingual Artery may be most certainly tied at the apex of the digastric triangle beneath the hyoglossus. A curved incision beginning to the right (or left) of the symphysis menti is to be carried to the level of the hyoid bone, and then nearly up to the angle of the jaw. _ This should divide the platysma and expose the submaxillary gland without injuring it. The lower border of the gland is then to be turned up and held with a hook, when a little dissection will expose the two bellies and intervening tendon of the digastric, forming two sides of a triangle, of which the 9th or hypoglossal nerve is the base. The nerve will be seen to pass beneath the posterior border of the mylo hyoid, which should be defined, and is usually accompanied by a branch of lingual vein. Both of these are to be dissected up a little, so as to bring the hyoglossus muscle, on which they lie, fully into view, and the hyoglossus is then to be divided transversely about g of an inch above the great cornu of the hyoid bone, when the lingual artery with its venre comites wiU be seen. The needle should be passed from above downwards. If the incision is carried up to or beyond the angle of the jaw, the large facial vein may be divided, and will require two ligatures. In dividing the hyoglossus, if the incision is made too deeply it vdll open the pharynx. The Facial Artery may be tied immediately in front of the masseter on the margin of the lower jaw, by an incision, 1 inch in length, parallel to the fibres of the masseter. The artery lies upon the bone immediately beneath the platysma, and the vein is to its outer side. The artery is often tortuous. The Subclavian Artery, in its third part, may be tied. In order to reach the vessel, the arm should be drawn down, and the head turned towards the opposite side. Standing at the shoulder of the patient, the operator draws the skin down upon the clavicle with the left hand, and makes a curved incision upon the bone, reaching from the sterno-mastoid to the trapezius. This incision should divide the skin, platysma, and fascia down to the bone, and with them the descending branches of the superficial cervical plexus, and possibly a vein, which should be tied at once if it bleeds. The skin being now allowed to resume its natural position, the incision will be about half an inch above the clavicle, and must be deepened by cutting carefully through the deep fascia thus exposed. The position of the external jugular vein having been ascer- tained, if it can be held on one side it should be preserved, but if it is in the middle of the incision it should be tied in two places, and divided between them. The finger introduced into the wound will be able to recognise the edge of the anterior scalenus and the first rib, with its tubercle, and possibly the artery and the cords of the brachial plexus. With the steel director aud forceps, a cautious dissection is to be made in the direction of the artery, guided by the finger, until, by tearing through a process of fascia continuous with the scalenus, the vessel is exposed. The needle may be most conveniently passed from above downwards between the last cord of the plexus and the artery. The