84 WOUNDS OF THE FACE AND ADJACENT PARTS. or two handkerchiefs, as shown in fig. 79, makes a comfortable appliance. It may be lined with soft lint or cotton wool, and should be applied with great care. If an opportunity offers of securing two fragments of bone by fastening together contiguous teeth, it should be done by means of silver wire or silk. The adjustment frequently checks haemorrhage, and prevents further mischief froni sharp-pointed spicula of bone, which from the hard nature of the lower jaw always exist in gun-shot wounds. The surgeon may not be in possession of gutta-percha, when he may substitute pastelDoard, leather, or in fact any substance that can be moulded and give support to the jaw. Mr. G. E. Hammond, while serving with an ambulance at the siege of Paris, had much success in the treatment of gun-shot fractures of the Fig. 80.—Hammond's splint for gun-shot fracture of the lower jaw. lower jaw, by means of a framework of iron wire, as represented in fig. 80. He first approximates (temporarily) the broken bones by passing a silk thread between and around two teeth on each side of the fracture ; he then talces an impression of the teeth in wax, and from it a cast in plaster of Paris. He adjusts the frame on the plaster cast, and when ready jjlaces it over the teeth, securing it on either side by wires, as shown in fig. 80. Letter T is intended to represent a tooth. The mres should be cut short, and their ends twisted in between the teeth. This contrivance renders the jaw comparatively firm, and so solid tliat the patient can bite steadily on it without pain. The jaw should now be secured at perfect rest. The patient should rinse his mouth four or five times a day with rectified spirits of wine and water, and he should sleep on his side to allow of a free discharge from the wound and mouth. Erichsen remarks : " In fractures of the body of the lower jaw by gun- shot injury, there is great comminution and splintering of the bone, followed by copious and foetid discharge, which, being swallowed, may reduce the patient to a state of extreme debility, and thus prove_ fatal. In these cases Dupuytren recommends cutting through the lower lip, the taking away of the splinters, and, if necessary, resection of the bone."