86 WOUNDS OF THE FACE AND ADJACENT PARTS. weapons perforating the thin orbital platea generally inflict such injury that they are followed by fatal results. ' Incised or lacerated wounds of the eyelid and brow should be carefully cleaned, and edges brought together as far as practicable bv means of fine sutures, and as quickly after the accident as possible Wounds of the eyeball may be divided into penetrating and non- penetratmg. ^ Treatment pi injuries to the eye which are likely to be followed bv panophthalmitis should be as follows :— All applications to the eye should be warm and soothing, such as decoction of poppy heads, or a solution of oi. of extract of beUadonna in a pint of boihng water. A solution of atrophine should be droiDped into the eye twice or thrice a day. The patient should be kept in a dark room Ihe bowels should be freely acted ui^on at the commencement and sleep should be produced and pain relieved by opium. At the com- mencement, salines and diaphoretics may be prescribed, but these must soon give way to quinine, bark, &c. The strength of the patient should be maintained by good fluid food, with a moderate allowance of wine or brandy.—Lawson. "Whenever foreign bodies are lodged in the eye they should be ex- tracted at all hazards. If it is impracticable to find them, the globe should be extirpated in order to preserve the other eye." In fractures of the bones of the orbital region, it is not judicious to remove fragments, unless they are completely detached, and are acting as foreign bodies. Injuries of the Nose.—In cases of incised wounds, the parts must be adjusted, and sutures applied in the same manner as for wounds of the ear, taking care that the skin does not curl in, which would prevent adhesion. Should the nose be broken, it is best to try and place it in its normal position; inserting in the nostrils pieces of gum elastic catheters, or plug with lint or sponge, to prevent deformity of the organ, and contraction of the nasal passages and depression of the nose. These injuries are frequently complicated with violent epistaxis, which may require plugging of the posterior nares. Wounds of the Cheeks and Forehead.—These wounds are usually the result of sword or gun-shot, and, when the parts are not completely carried away, will heal most readily if properly adjusted and secured. They have, like wounds of the scalp, the same tendency to attacks of erysipelatous inflammation; it is therefore necessary, during the treat- ment, to prevent the wound being exposed, and to observe strict dieting and temperance. No matter how small a shred may be attaching a fragment of skin to the face, an attempt should be made to readjust it. Wounds of the Parotid Duct and Gland.—Wounds of the cheek may be complicated with injuries of the parotid duct, and to prevent a salivary fistula being formed, Mr. Guthrie recommends: " If the duct of the parotid gland be implicated by an incised wound, care should be taken to divide the cheek into the mouth, if it should not have been already done; and to keej) the incised wound open until the external ppe is closed. If a salivary fistula have formed externally, from i»-