1^7 AMPUTATION. in front of the pad of the heel to its outer border, and connect this with the point of entrance of the knife in the first mcision. See that all the tissues are divided down to the bone. Take hold of the heel flap by its external border, dissect it back by cutting always on the bone to detaph it from the calcaneum, divide the tendo-AchiUis so as not to derange its connections with the integument, and uncover the whole calcaneum^ m this way. Now proceed to dissect the internal portion of the flap, keeping the edf'e of the knife close to the bone, so that the posterior tibial artery, &c niay remain intact in the soft tissues of the flap. Do this by short Fig. 106. cuts, keeping the edge of the knife always on the bone, whilst an assistant takes charge of the flap and draws it back. The upper edge of the internal malleolus being reached the joint is opened and the foot separated. Left foot.—'Reverse the order of incision. Commence at the tubercle of the scaphoid and proceed to the outer edge of the tendo-Achillis for the first incision, then from the scaphoid foUow round the plantar surface of the foot to the same point as the first incision ended in. Then proceed as above. Amputation through the Tarsus (Ghoimrt's Operation).—" In the first place, the articulation of the cuboid with the os calcis (which lies about midway between the external malleolus and the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone), and that of the navicular with the astragalus (which will be found just behind the prominence of the navicular bone in front of the inner ankle), must be sought for, and a semi-lunar incision be made across the dorsum from one to the other. The flap of the skin being turned, the internal and dorsal ligaments that connect the navi- cular to the astragalus are to be divided with the point of the bistoury, recoUecbing the convex shape of the head of the latter bone. The liga- ments connecting the os calcis and cuboid are next divided; and, lastly, a flap is to be procured from the sole of the foot." Amputation of all the Metatarsal Bones (Uey's Operation, as de- scribed by himself).—^" I made a mark across the upper part of the foot, to point out as exactly as I could the place where the metatarsal bones were joined to those of the tarsus. About half an inch from this mark, nearer the toes, I made a transverse incision through the integuments 12