viii CONTENTS. Gto-shot Wounds. How Gun-shot Wounds are Influenced—Effects of Modern Bullets—Examination of Wounds—Eeyher's Rules in Exploring for Bullets—Longmore's Rules— Ndlaton's Probe—Lecomte's Probe—Tailors Explorer—De Wilde's Explorer— Liebreicii's Explorer—Endoscopic Exploration—The Microphone—Detection of Lead and Iron—Extraction of Bullets and other Missiles—Gun-shot Wounds of Muscular Parts—Dr. Cammerer's Experiences—Experiences in German Hos- pital at Belgrade—Need of Attention to Wounds—Bayonet. Lance, Sword, and Arrow Wounds—The Use of Bandages—Washing Wounds—Poultices—Consti- tutional Treatment—Sanitary Treatment—Principles involved in the Ventilation of Buildings—Extemporised Bedsteads—Extemporised Mattresses—Extempor- ised Bed Cradles,......... 58-72 Injuries op the Head. Classification of the Injuries of the Head—Contusions of the Head—The Treatment of Simple Contusion—Severe Contusions—Contused Wounds, with Fracture of the Cranium, without Depression—Furrowing of Outer Table—Contused Wounds, with Depression—Penetrating Wounds of the Cranium—Fracture of both Tables—Fracture from Contre-Coup—Fracture of the Base of the Skull- Scalp Wounds—Sabre Wounds—Concussion—Treatment of Concussion—Com- pression—Treatment of Compression—Trephining—Suppuration within the Cranium—Treatment—Protrusion of the Brain, Fungus or Hernia Cerebri— Treatment—Application of Trephine as recommended by Sir W. Fergusson— Victor Horsley's Views, ....... 72-82 Wounds of the Face and Adjacent Paets. Wounds Implicating the Bones of the Face—Wounds of the Lower Jaw—Fracture or Fissure of the Symphysis—Wounds of the Ear—Wounds of the Orbit—Incised or Lacerated Wounds of the Eyelid and Brow—Wounds of the Eye—General Ophthalmitis—Fractures of the Bones of the Orbital Region—Injuries of the Nose—Wounds of the Cheeks and Forehead—Wounds of the Parotid Duct and Gland—Injui-y of the Lachrymal Bones—Wounds of the Tongue—Wounds of the Mouth, 82-87 ;WotJNDS of the Neck. Superficial Wounds of the Neck—Deep Wounds of the Neck—Wounds of the Larynx—Wounds of the CEsophagus, ..... 87-S9 Wounds of the Chest. Classification—Non-penetrating Wounds—Penetrating Wounds may be Compli- cated—Symptoms of Wound of Lungs—Emphysema—Treatment of Penetrating Wound—Blood in Cavity of Chest—Ecchymosis—Treatment for Haemorrhage into Cavity of Chest—Gun-shot Wounds of both Limgs—Extraneous Bodies in Superficial Chest Wounds—Extraneous Bodies in the Cavity of the Pleura- Searching for Extraneous Bodies in Chest—Emphysema—Pneumothorax— Hydrothorax—Empyema—Place of Election for Tapping the Chest: Paracentesis Thoracis—Hernia of the Lung or Pneumocele—Wounds of the Pericardium or Heart—Wounds of the Heart-Wounds of the Diaphragm—The Secondary Causes of Death, 89-99