96 WOUNDS OF THE CUEHl. Hamilton says it may be distinguished from hjemothorax in beinc' pre- ceded usually by the sign of pleuritis or of pleuro-pneumonia, in the absence of those symptoms of prostration which must necessarily accom- pany large l)leedings, and in the greater facility with which the contained Huid flows frop one point of the cavity to another on change of position it paracentesis is required, an aspirator should be used to remove the nuid. Empyema.—This condition is the result of septic inflammation of the pleura. It consists of a collection of pus mixed with lymph and blood It is to be recognised by dulness on percussion where the fluid has collected; by dyspnoea or difficulty of breathing, absence of respiratory murmur at the lower and posterior part of the chest corresponding to where the fluid has reached the pleural cavity. These symptoms are all influenced by the position of the patient. There may be cerjophony. If the effused fluid has filled one side, that side is enlarged ; the ribs are immovable and partly raised ; the intercostal spaces will be more or less filled up, and the surface of the chest will be found smooth. There will be absence of all breath or voice sounds. If the empyema is general the lung may become pressed against the spine, and, if the left pleura be filled, displacement of the heart may take place to the right side ; or, if the effusion is to the right side, the liver may be pushed down below its normal level. There may be oedema of the back, which was looked upon by the older writers as distinctive of effusion into the chest. There may be cough, but it has no characteristic feature in connection with empyema. In some instances the empyema is localised and may be situated between the lobes of the lungs; when this is the case, as the abscess increases the lung becomes com- pressed in all directions. The fluid will have to be removed by an operation. " The space between the fifth and sixth ribs, an inch to an inch and a half in front of the mid axiUary line, will probably be found the best in most cases. The interval between the ribs is mde enough here to admit a large tube readily, the covering of soft parts is not too thick, and the drainage obtained is efficient, and there is no risk of the opening be- coming obstructed either by the expanding lung or the diaphragm."— Erichsen. A grooved aspirator needle should be used, and if, after its introduc- tion, pus escapes, a bistoury may be passed along the groove and a free incision made, a drainage tube should then be inserted, and free drainage established. In introducing the point of the needle or trochar, with which the aspirator is adapted, care must be taken not to wound the intercostal artery ; it is therefore best to keep the point of the instrument nearer the lower than the upper rib, and to press it forward rather quickly, so as to avoid pushing the pleura before it. It is not advisable to remove any portion of a rib unless the case is of a very chronic nature, or when the ribs are found to be so close together as to render it impossible to insert a drainage tube. If it is necessary to remove a portion of rib, make an incision over the rib, divide the periosteum along the length of