WOUNDS. 52 from all chance of invasion of the organisms, or, if this cannot be done, as in the case of accidental injuries, the wound must be so treated by antiseptics as will interfere with and prevent their power of development. Lister, in his Berlin address (1890), says that his practice for some time past has been to wash his operation wounds with a strong solution of corrosive sublimate, and at the same time he has doubts whether either washing or irrigation was really necessary; but since he discontinued the spray he has been careful to compensate for its absence, not only by antiseptic washing and irrigation, but by surrounding the seat of opera- tion with widespread towels wrung out of an antiseptic solution. He says also that the use of carbolic acid solutions, as well as the use of strong corrosive sublimate solutions (1-500), produce inconvenient irrita- tion, and, therefore, when opening an articulation, as for suturing a transverse fracture of the patella, he abstains from washing, and, as a substitute, irrigates with a weak solution of corrosive sublimate (1-4000). Lister found that carbolic acid, when used as an antisej)tic agent, induced by its irritation such a copious effusion of bloody serum as to necessitate an opening for its exit; hence came the drainage of wounds; but, he continues, "if we can discard the application of an antiseptic to the cut surfaces, using sponges wrung out of a liquid that is aseptic but unirri- tating, such as the 1-10,000 solution of corrosive sublimate, vve may fairly hope that the use of drainage tubes may be dispensed with. _ Cotton wool sterilised by heat can only exclude septic germs when it is in a dry state. When it is soaked to its external surface with a copious discharge, it must be liable to become septic en masse ; if, therefore, the discharge is considerable, it is essential that the dressing be of a kind which will not permit the development of septic organisms in it, although it be saturated throughout; and this can, I believe, only be attained by the use of chemical substances." Lister continues : — " Our woimds being no longer subject to the con- stant irrigation of the spray, and carbolic acid having given place to the less irritating, though more efficient, solution of corrosive sublimate, serous discharge is much less than formerly, and less drainage is required. In many small wounds where we used to find drainage imperative we omit it altogether, and in those of larger extent we have greatly reduced it, and it would be a great thing if we could dispense with dramage The^best drains are those made of red india-rubber—the tube must not project beyond the surface, and a loop of silk should always be fastened into it at its orifice. It is better to use two or more smaUish tubes than one large one, because on the day after the operation one of these may be removed altogether. "No tube," says Cheyne " which one wishes to put back again, should be removed until the third day on account of the difficulty in returning it. Generally on the third day half the tube is cut off and it is reduced in length at subsequent dressings till it becomes no'longer necessary." Sinus forceps are of the greatest use m msertmg drainage tubes, and every pocket-case ought to contain a pair. There is a certain amount of reaction about the use of drainage tubes in the minds of surgeons. They are now used more sparingly than