2°o HEMORRHAGE. &eIl\tXfe'4tiL^f ^ wound and the surrounding tissue. If the vessels are softened Ld wHl not hr^l ^^ through the stump, so as to press the artery against one of the bones foy^ld hcBmorrfmge occur at a later period, when the stump is iSble nltlrt-'"'"^ to slough the surgeon may select one of the fi?e fSS alternatives:-Apply a tourniquet; open up the stump and tie the vesITs^ ligature the mam artery immediately above the stifmp; iL the vessel' ^gh up m the limb at a distance from the stump ; or, lastly ampSe Mr. Guthrie remarks on this description of hemorrhage--I^SSk and sloughmg state of stump, haemorrhages frequentlf takeplac"from the small branches, or from the main trunks of the arteries irconsequenS of ulceration; and it is not always easy to discover the bleeding S S when discovered to secure it on the face of the stump ; for as the Scera- tive process has not ceased, and the end of the artery which is to be secured IS not sound no healthy action can take place; th^Hgature ver? soon cuts Its way through, and the hemorrhage returns asSntlvS before, or some other branch gives way. Some surgeons^' he sL? nfte-''^*"''^ ""T^' PJ^efeired cutting down upon the prindpal artery t preference to performing another amputation, even when't IS practicable; and they have sometimes succeeded in restraining the hemorrhage for a sufficient ength of time to allow the stump to relume a more healthy action. This operation, although successful in some cases, will generaUy fail, and particularly if absolute rest cannot be obtamed, when amputation wall be necessary. The same objection of want of success may be made to amputation; on a due comparison of the whole attending circumstances, the operation of tying the artery in most cases IS to be preferred m the first instance, and if that prove unsuccessful then recourse IS to be had to amputation; but this practice is by no means to be followed indiscriminately." " To obviate aU doubt, the parts from which the bleeding comes should be well studied, and the shortest distance from the stump at which com- pression on the artery commands the bleeding carefully noted • at this spot the ligature should be applied, provided it be not within the sphere of the inflammation of the stump. In case the hasmorrhage should only be restrained by pressure above the origin of the profunda, and repeated attempts to secure the vessel on the surface of the stump have failed amputation is preferable to tying the artery in the groin, when the strength of the patient will bear it."