WOUNDS OF JOINTS. 138 foot-board, and the heel must never be permitted alone to sustain the weight or tlie foot. (3) Wounds of the Foot and its Bones.-The bones of the foot when mjured by rifle-ball or other missile present as a rule serious compli- cations owing to their being numerous, of soft texture, and liable to run into a state of caries from the slightest injury. There may be injury of some of the many tendons, of the vessels, nerves, and strong fascia. *u ^^^9^1* *o extract splinters or foreign bodies, and, if the injury to the bone is extensive, an attempt to save the foot is'not recommended, as the disease produced will ultimately render amputation necessary, which, if done at first, would prevent much suffering. When it is decided to interfere by operation, the foot, or part of it, should be removed as soon as possible. The importance, however, of preserving the heel either by Syme's or Pirogoff's operation cannot be exaggerated. A missile will sometimes lodge in one of the bones of the foot, doing but slight injury to the surrounding textures. An attempt should then be made to remove it, or the bone. Shot Wounds of the Os Calais. - The heel may be struck by cannon- shot or bullet, only destroying a portion of the os calcis. By due atten- tion in removing spicula of bone and making free openings for the exit of matter the limb may be preserved. Wounds of Bones of the Toes.-In wounds of the bones of the toes, only such as are extensively fractured should be amputated. Much can always be done by removal of splinters of the bone, or foreign bodies, and by strict antiseptic treatment. Wounds of the toes, however, are generally in connection with other injuries to the foot. It is of the utmost importance to preserve the big toe even when circumstances necessitate its being the only one that can be saved. WOUNDS OF JOINTS. In the treatment of gun-shot wounds of joints, much of the success will depend upon the size and description of joint, the extent of injury done, the age and constitution of the sufferer, and the time after receipt of injury that treatment has been commenced, and the available means for carrying out that treatment. Patients who have undergone excision or resection .require constant care and attention, abundant cubic space, and pure air; every facility for securing cleanliness, proper dieting, nursing, surgical skill, and most perfect rest. The suppuration as a rule is always copious, and there is therefore great susceptibility to pyaemic poisoning. It is, therefore, necessary to calculate as to the possibility of securing favourable con- ditions before resection or excision is selected in preference to amputation, this latter operation not requiring the same amount of attention in the after-treatment, or the same prolonged rest and confinement indoors. Professor Hanover, of Copenhagen, is not favourable to the oiperation