HAEMORRHAGE. 197 of the femoral below the wound should be placed a pencil thickly covered with lint, and a roller carried up over this. On the wound itself a carefully made graduated compress, over which a bandage should be carried, ending in a spica at the groin. Another compress might be placed over Poupart's ligament, to exercise a certain amount of pressure upon the epigastric and common femoral arteries. Over the compress on the wound, Skey's tourniquet should be applied and kept tight for at least some hours. Should bleeding recur, the whole arrangement should be readjusted. A Liston's long splint might be of advantage in prevent- ing the involuntary movement of the muscles. The following rules with regard to the treatment of wounded arteries are now generally adopted, for some of which;i* am indebted to Mr. C. H. Moore (see Holmes^ System of Surgery, vol i., p. 749) :— Wounded arteries which do not readily cease bleeding, and which can be conveniently secured, should be tied. Moderate haemorrhage from an artery which cannot be reached with- out enlarging the wound, should be stopped by a graduated compress, compression upon the arterial trunk above the wound may be added if it is thought advisable. Violent arterial haemorrhage requires the wound to be enlarged and the vessel tied. JVo operation should he performed with the object of securing a wounded artery unless it be actually bleeding. This rule has been specially laid down by Mr. Guthrie; nevertheless, it may be departed from when the torn extremity of a large artery is seen or felt to pulsate, and its per- manent closure by natural means appears doubtful. An artery which has recently ceased to bleed may also be cut down upon and tied in cer- tain emergencies. Such practice may be judged to be right, when delirium tremens supervenes upon the injury, or when, as in some mili- tary movements, the wounded are ordered to be transported to another position. Mr. Holmes considers this rule may be departed from in cases in which the surgeon judges, by the severity of the previous bleeding, that a large vessel has been wounded that the hsemorrhage will probably recur, and when the patient must be left at a distance from competent aid. A luounded arto'y lohen requiring a ligature should be tied in the place lohere it bleeds; nevertheless, since it is sometimes impractical)le to tie the vessel in the wound, the trunk should then be secured at the next convenient place above the bleeding orifice. Mr. Guthrie incul- cated this principle, and says:—"No operation is to be done for a wounded artery in the first instance, but on the spot injured, unless such operation not only appears to be, but is impracticable " The greater number of competent authorities of the present day agree with Mr. Guthrie in his recommendation to cut down directly upon the wounded part of the injured artery, for the following reasons :—That the ligature of the main trunk at a distance above it would only stop the direct supply of blood to the limb ; but it would not interfere with the anastomosing circulation, and blood would find its way to the distal aperture of the artery ; that it may not be possible for the surgeon to ascertain the exact artery the bleeding is coming from unless he looks * Porter.