SPLINTS. reeds, straw, brushwood, twigs (arranged as in figs, 49, oO, and ol), heather, leather straps, such as a trace or stirrup leather, or strips ot tin. There is very little difficulty in converting the many articles found about a house, farm-yard, or in fields, into temporary sphnts, but even with the best and most perfect, which will answer for use in permanent hospitals, there are some fractures in which it is almost impossible to keep the broken ends of the bones in position during transport. Bark of trees Mr. Benjamin Howard of New York has made use of with great advantage. Telegraph wire has been suggested by the author, the great difficulty with it being a means of cutting it at the exact point required. This has been obviated by constructing a file on the outside of one of the blades of the straight scissors (fig. 52) in an ordinaiy pocket- case ; this is capable of cutting a notch in the wire, and so weakening it that it may be broken -with. ease. Fig. 53 represents a splint for a leg or forearm ; the latter being considerably shorter and narrower. Fig. 54 represents a splint for the outer side of the upper arm, one end being bent over the acromion, and the other under the olecranon, as might be done with a piece of leather strap. Fig. 55 is an inner or back splint for the upper arm. Fig. 56 represents an angular splint for Fig. 52. fractures of the lower end of the humerus, or injury of the elbow. These splints may be made more splint-like by having strips of the soldier's clothing, bandage, or other soft material roUed round them, when they will be found capable of supporting any fractures. For fractures of the thigh it is only necessary to select a larger wire and prolong the splint (fig. 55). Extemporary Pads and Cushions.— The army surgeon may at times be under difficulties as regards the construction of pads or cushions ; they may, however, be made with cotton-wool, tow, oakum, chaff, shavings of cork or horn, cut straw, hair, cutpajjer, feathers, dried sea-weed, bran, dried leaves, felt, saddle cloth, articles of clothing, saw-dust which,