87 WOUNDS OF THE NECK. attention or otherwise, it must be treated according to the ordinary methods adopted in such cases. . When a wound of the gland itself becomes fistulous and weeps, which is a rare occurrence, it wiU be best treated by actual or potential cauterisation, if moderate pressure should fail" Injury of the lachrymal bones, or sac, causing the tears to run over, which misfortune may continue for life, should be treated by endeavour- iii- to remove obstructions in the duct, and so prevent the distress which must follow from want of early care and attention. _ ■ Wounds of the tongue frequently give rise to extensive hfemorrhage, which is difficult to check, if secondary, or occurring several days after receipt of injury, when the process of suppuration is going on and the ton'-ue is swollen and ])ainful. If the bleeding vessels can be dis- covered, they should be tied, a.nd to do this the tongue must be drawn well forward, or an attempt may be made to restrain the hemorrhage with styptics, or it may be necessary to tie the lingual artery. Wounds of the mouth are generally in connection with wounds ot the face ; but they may be still further complicated with injuries to the pharynx, tongue, spinal cord, jaws, and skuU. WOUNDS OF THE NECK. Superficial wounds of the neck require the same trea,tment as elsewhere, the surgeon always bearing in mind the great liability to erysipelas in these parts, with rapid diffuse inflammation and infiltra- Deep wounds of the neck, such as those produced by stabs, may be accompanied by most distressing symptoms, such as oppressed breathing, nausea, spasmodic twitching of face, paralysis of one or both arms, cough, restlessness, and hiccough. In gun-shot wounds of the neck, it is scarcely possible to have lesion of one important structure without others being implicated ; at the same time it has been generally observed that buUets and other missiles pass in and out between muscles, vessels, and nerves, and even the trachea, without causing much injiuy to any. This is accounted for by the soft and flexible condition of the structure of the neck offering no resistance. r 1 • t Wounds of the larger arteries and veins generally prove fatal immedi- ately, but in wounds of the smaller vessels, there is frequently much diffi- culty in discovering whence the haemorrhage arises, and what trunk should be tied. Mr Guthrie quotes, with great satisfaction, the opinion of M. Velpeau on this subject: "In basmorrhage from the neck, the mouth, the throat, the ear, or the skull, everything should be done to reach the branch of the carotid which has been wounded, rather than tie the carotid itself." Wounds of the Larynx.—In wounds of the larynx the parts must be adjusted and kept in contact by bandages, sutures being considered objectionable. Should a bullet or other missile get into the larynx, it