ii8 WOUNDS OF THE ORGANS OF DEFECATION. It, lie slioiUd tie it 11 If this is impossible from the torn condition of ^^^'^'^f. punctured. On the first appearance of luhltrat ion deep and free incisions are necessary P«-«irance Foreign Bodies in the Urethra.-The urethra may be obstructed bv ^Tif ^'T^ ^^/""'^ ^^"'^l by projectiles, or expelled from vlL^ 1 ; ^^fragments of bone, clothing, and'small projectile" When situated near the meatus, it is possible to remove them with a small forceps, a bent probe, or metallic loop; but should such simple would be more prudent than incurring any danger to the canal by per- sistent efforts at extraction. o j b uy per Wounds of the scrotum when uncomplicated, are not very serious and require but little interference; open wounds should be closed by sutures, and the parts dressed antiseptically and well supported It may be laid down as a general rule that all incised or lacerated wounds of the genitals should be closed by sutures, if the parts can be possibly brought together. Balls may lodge in the scrotum without doing any injury to the testes or other parts, ihey should be removed Wounds of the Testes cause intense pain extending to the lumbar resrions attended by famtness and, often, by vomiting and even collapse. I hey may be severely bruised, shattered, or detached from the cord Of w cases of this group reported as having occurred during the American War, the largest proportion consisted of lacerated wounds of one or both testes. Eelief must be afforded by the administration of opium, the organ should be well supported and cold or warm water applied. Should there be any portion of either testicle partially detached, or extensively lacer- ated it may be removed, as in all probabiUty it will become diseased. 0-uthrie removed the bruised and shattered remains of testes and epidy- climis to expedite the cure. Wounds of the Spermatic Cord are generally associated with wounds of the testes; they are of infrequent occurrence, and rarely lead to fatal consequences; it may, however, he necessary to ligature the spermatic artery in cases of violent haemorrhage from it. WOUNDS OF THE ORGANS OE DEE^CATION. Wounds of the Rectum and Anus.—Lacerated and incised wounds of these regions are rare in war, the parts being more or less protected, but shot wounds of the rectum are not infrequent. During the Crimean War and Indian Mutiny, Porter saw only ore example of this descri])tion of wound, which occurred to a soldier who, while attending to the calls of nature in an advanced trench in the squatting position, was struck with a fragment of a shell, which removed the scrotum as if it had been done by a knife, lacerated the buttocks, and divided the sphincter ani, causing violent hcemorrhage and involuntary