20$ LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. Wounds of Veins,—Unless from some large and deep-seated trunk, haemorrhage from wounded veins is seldom dangerous. If a wound of the chief vein of an extremity is complicated with a wound of its artery, the case must be looked upon as most serious, being generally followed by gangrene of the limb. If the vein wounded be of such a size that it would be dangerous to tie, the rent or tear in it may be closed by the uninterrupted or Glover's suture. Veins, if they bleed, may be tied as freely as arteries, though in ordinary cases pressure and elevation would be sufficient. LIGATURE OF ARTERIES, The instruments required for application of a ligature to an artery in its continuity are a scalpel, not too pointed, with a flat handle for pres- sing aside the tissues ; a good-sized forceps; an aneurism needle; re- tractors ; a ligature ; needles and thread. In cutting down on an artery it may be only necessary to follow up a wound, which point should always be observed, the original wound being taken advantage of. Mr. Erichsen gives such excellent instructions for cutting down on an artery, that they may be repeated here with advantage :— "In making the first incision, the skin should be put on the stretch by the fingers of the left hand, or by those of an assistant. If the artery be superficial, or if there be parts of importance in its vicinity, the incision should not penetrate deeper than the skin. But if the vessel be deeply seated and no parts of importance intervene it may be carried at once through the subcutaneous areolar tissue, until the fascia covering the artery is exposed. This must then be pinched up with the forceps, and opened by the edge of the scalpel laid horizontally. Through this open- ing a grooved director may then be passed, and the fascia incised on it, without risk to subjacent parts. The sheath of the vessel is now exposed by a little careful dissection ; and the next step of the operation is one of great delicacy. It consists in exposing the artery and separating it from its accompany- ing vein. This is done by pinching up the sheath with the forceps and applying the knife horizontally. The artery having been exposed, the surgeon seizes one edge of the sheath with the forceps, and putting it on the stretch, gently separates the artery from its accompanying vein by tearing through the areolar connections with the end of the aneurism-needle, or with a ^^S- 1-25. director, being careful not to expose it to a greater extent than is abso- lutely necessary for the passage of the ligature. The ligature should be passed between the vein and the artery, care being taken only to include the latter, and especially not to transfix and include a portion of the vein. The artery should be tied tightly with a reef-knot, which does not slip " (fig. 125).