WOUNDS AND INJURIES TO THE SPINE. iii all absorptiot] and excretion. Mr. Meredith points this out, and also explains that the rationale of giving saline purgatives in the early stage of peritonitis could only be explained by their promoting absorption and excretion. Foreign Bodies Lodged in the Cavity of the Abdomen are not of uncommon occurrence, and instances have been adduced when they have become encysted and ultimately eliminated by stool. The act of exiDloring sliot wounds of the belly for lost missiles could only be undertaken after due consideration, but now that abdominal section has been so established it would not seem more dangerous to perform it for the purpose of removing a foreign body, as a bullet, from the cavity of the abdomen than to do so for an ovariotomy or an intussuscejDtion. Colotomy.—Mr. Christopher Heath recommends the following opera- tion [British Medical Journal, December 1, 1887):—Place the patient on the right side, with a pillow under the loin, in order that the left loin may be thrown into greater prominence. Then measure a point midway between the anterior and posterior superior spines of the ilium, and from that point draw a vertical line upwards to the last rib. This line will give you the position of the bowel. Then make an incision 4 inches long, somewhat obliquely, between the crest of the ilium and the last rib, half of the incision being on each side of the vertical line marked out. It should be slightly oblique, running parallel to the last rib. In making this incision, you divide the skin, subcutaneous fat, the external oblique and latissimus dorsi muscles, thus exi^osing the internal oblique; you now expose the fascia lumborum, which you carefully divide on a director. You have now exposed the loose fat about the kidney and colon in the antei-ior part of the wound, and the edge of the quadratus behind. The bowel may be found just in front of the quadratus lumborum, and should be brought into the wound with the hooked finger ; its posterior surface should be exposed. With a large curved needle you pass a stout silk thread through the skin to one side of the ink mark across the bowel, and again through the skin at a corresponding point on the other side of the mark, repeating the proceeding at the other end of the incision. Thus, the colon is held to the margin of the wound before being opened". A transverse incision is now made into the bowel between the thi-eads' and, the finger being introduced, the two loops can be dra^vn out, and, on dividmg them, you have four threads to fix the bowel to the wound only requmng to be tied. The rest of the incision on each side of the bowel is then closed by ordinary sutures, and the operation is completed. WOUNDS AND OTHER INJURIES TO THE SPINE. Injuries of the spinal cord may be divided into concussion and com- pression, the same as injuries of the brain, to which they bear much resemblance. Concussion may occur directly or indirectly, as, for instance, from a blow, or by falhng from a height on the buttock. Mr. Alexander Shaw says, in his remarks on Concussion of the Spinal