S INTRODUCTORY GENERAL REMARKS. to present irregularities of surface, it becomes an important matter for bearers to practise the carriage of the stretchers so as to acquire a facility of keeping the stretcher level, notwithstanding that the ground is uneven. If the ground over which the conveyance has to pass presents a general ascent, and the bearers are of different heights, then the rear or No. 3 bearer should be the taller and stronger man, for his greater height_ and the greater strength of his arm will be useful in supporting and raising the stretcher up to the level of the end carried by the foremost man. The weight of the stretcher will naturally be thrown in the direction of the man on the lower level. If the ground presents a general descent the front or No. 1 bearer should be the taller and stronger, for the same reasons as those just given as regards the No. 3 bearer imder the opposite circumstances. A sick or wounded person on a stretcher should be carried, if the ground be tolerably level, with his face looking toward the direction in which the bearers walk. The front or No. 1 bearer then supports the end of the stretcher at which the patient's feet are placed; the bearer near the patient's head is the rear bearer or No. 3. If the bearers have to carry the stretcher up hill, the front bearer should support the end of the stretcher on which the patient's head is placed, excepting under the following circumstances :— If the bearers have to carry the stretcher down hill, the rear bearer, or No. 3, should support the end on which the patient's head is placed. The reverse of these positions should be assumed by the bearers, both as regards going up hill and going down hill, when the patient being carried is suffering from a recent fracture of the thigh or leg. The patient's comfort and welfare will be best consulted as a general principle by the arrangements suggested in the previous iiaragraphs. Although under all circumstances the level position should be sought for as much as possible, still, if the slope of the ground be such that it cannot be attained, it appears desirable that the inclination downwards should be towards the feet rather than towards the head of the patient. But with regard to the exceptions just named, a reverse position of the patient is directed in order to prevent the weight of his body pushing the upper end of the broken bone down upon the helpless and motionless portion of the limb below the seat of the fracture. No attempt must be made to Ccirry a helpless patient over a high fence or wall, if it can possibly be avoided ; it is always a dangerous proceeding. The danger is of course increased in proportion to the height of the wall or fence. If the fence or wall be high, either a irortion of the wall should be thrown down, or a breach in the fence made, so that the patient may be carried through on a stretcher; or the patient should be carried to a place where a gate or opening does already exist. In crossing a ditch, dyke, or hollow, the stretcher should be first laid on the ground near its edge, the first bearer then descends, the stretcher with the patient upon it is afterwards advanced, the first bearer in the ditch supporting the front of the stretcher, while its other end rests on the edge of the ground above. While thus supported, the