230 OSTEO-MYELITIS. as the micrococcus and bacillus, which have the power of t?rowinir in the mng tissues of the animal body. These organisms having glS fccess to the wound may spread until they reach the periosteum or the medulla and thus set up an acute septic periostitis or osteo-u.yelitis wiJh acute ^nnr'^'r?,^'"" T'y^""'-^' death of the bone may nJt be exlnd ui°b.t'f?;f'^ P'-'^'^r' •^"^ th^B-n^rmrative infiammatLJ may extend up beneath the periosteum or in the medulla, giving rise to acute suppurative periostitis or acute osteo-myelitis, in either case leading to S: tit. rSt aTfh" Um^e."'^ '^'^ ^^^"^ endangering^he It was remarked during the Franco-Prussian War, 1870-71, that gun- shot fractures, owing either to the nature of the missile or to the trans- port ot the patients, were attended in a most remarkable manner bv suppurative osteo-myelitis and pyaemia. The presence of the disease may be suspected when, after an operation or injury, the patient is attacked with shivering, deep-seated pain, and swelling. If It be an amputated bone, the medulla will protrude like a tungus, and the periosteum will be detached from the bone, the soft parts retoct, and the bone appear dry and discoloured. Fayrer says *—" The symptoms in this formidable disease are, in the outset said to be obscure. The local symptoms, no doubt, may be so when the affected bone is unexposed or undivided. The constitutional symptoms are those of pyemia, and, at tlie outset, may be mistaken for a mere access of fever, a rigor such as may follow any surgical operation or may occur from other causes. But as the local and constitutional symptoms progress, the doubt is soon cleared up. The symptoms, in the acute form, generally make their appearance early (within a week or ten days, or it may be earlier) after the operation, wound, or injury. Ihe stump, wound, or contusion, may have been doing well. It may, perhaps, have sloughed a little, and the sloughs have cleared away', healthy granulations having appeared. The flaps may have united almost by the first intention, or all but at a point or two, whence dis- charge continues. The pain is not necessarily acute, and the tenderness on pressure of the stump is but slightly increased. The discharge becomes more profuse, but it is not healthy, well-elaborated pus. A probe being introduced, the bone is found dry and denuded, and, if exposed, the medulla will probably be found protruding like a fungus, whilst the periosteum is stripped from the end of the bone. With all this there may have been only a quickened pulse ; or a febrile condition at some time of the day, the tempierature at others being at, or even below, the natural standard ; or rigors, as yet so slight as hardly to have attracted attention, may have occurred. Such are the early stage and symptoms, local and constitutional. These rapidly progress and develop themselves in the most marked manner. And now the critical period has arrived when it is necessary to make a thorough examination, and decide the question whether it be osteo-myelitis or not. Exploration should be made with the finger, the stump, if necessary, being sufficiently reopened to admit of doing so, and the condition of the bone should bo * Clinical Surgery in India.