AMPUTATION. i6o Mr. Bigg, regarding stumps in the view of providing for them artificial limbs also 8ays, "If possible, preserve the tread^of the foot this S^nftte great toe, with its metatarsal bone If thL cannot be done preserve the heel (Pirogoff or Syme). If this is impos- sible preserve the knee with sufficient of the lower leg to utilise it Jnd Sri °f those who bflow tT. 1 n "'-^ ^if^'i}'^* for the labouring man a hand's breadth below the knee IS the best suited for the bucket leg. Amputation ^S'SY. t^.l"""^^!-^ ^^"'''^ interferes very materially with the strength of the artificial knee, so that section through the femur iust above the condyles IS to be preferred." u juou Double Amputation. It sometimes occurs that a soldier has two limbs so severely injured that amputation of both is necessary. Porter had an opportunity during the Lrimean War, of seeing one instance of this description of injury, in which he performed amputation of one leg above the knee, while his colleague removed the other shortly afterwards. Double amputation has been performed at the same time by different surgeons, with a view to lessen the continuance of shock to the system which would result from doing two operations in succession; but, to undertake anything so serious, the surgeon must be guided by the con- dition of the patient, as, if he is greatly depressed with continuance of the shock, the performing of a double amputation might be followed by most serious consequences. Under such circumstances, it would be better to remove one limb first, and after the shock produced by the operation had passed o£f to remove the other. There is no doubt, however, that if the sufferer could bear the double operation at the same time, the prospects would be more favourable. After-treatment of Stumps, It may be necessary to transport an unfortunate sufferer with a stump or stumps only recently made. The surgeon will then have an anxious time in so arranging that the patients are not unnecessarily knocked about. The stump should be supported by a piece of thick gutta-percha or strong board being placed underneath it and secured, and the whole enveloped in folds of cotton-wool or tow. It is surprising how soldiers recently operated upon bear transport, and what very slight injury is caused by it, due attention, of course, being paid to the nature of the conveyance and efficiency of the attendants. Sir Jos. Lister says, " In the thigh, and also in the leg, great advantage is derived from bandaging upon the posterior surface of the stump outside the dressing, a trough of Gooch's splint (scored deal), on which the stump rests smoothly, being rendered independent of move- ment or irregularity of pillow."