54 WOUNDS. first punfication, 1-4,000 is the strength best suited for ward use. 1-5,000 may be used for irrigation during an operation, and 1-10,000 for washing out the abdominal and pleuritic cavities. In dressing wounds it niay be applied in lint which has been soaked in the 1-4,000 solution. It IS apt, however, to produce a troublesome eczema on some skins, and it will blister if applied in a too concentrated solution. Another dis- advantage is that albumen interferes with its antiseptic action very considerably. Woodwool owes its antiseptic properties to this drug; it is said_ to contain ยง per cent, of sublimate and 5 per cent, of glycerine, but it is not a very absorbent dressing. Sal alembroth is a double chloride of mercury and ammonium; the chloride of ammonium iu combination protects the chloride of mercury from the interfering influence of albumen ; at the same time this double salt is much less irritating and more efficacious, antiseptically, than the chloride of mercury alone. The dressings prepared with it chiefly in use are the absorbent cotton and the so-called gangee tissue, both of which are also coloured blue by means of an aniline dye, which is so incor- porated with the salt that, as the salt is washed out by the discharge, the blue colour disappears with it, the wool remaining white, and thus showing that all its antiseptic qualities have been removed. Quite recently Sir Jos. Lister * has brought forward a new preparation, which is a double salt of cyanide of mercury and zinc; this is an amorphous powder insoluble in water. It is ! highly irritating to the nostrils, and while trustworthy as an antiseptic, it is completely un- irritating to the sldn. A prepared gauze is sold. Sir Jos. Lister says : "In actual practice, a few layers of gauze placed next the wound are washed in a solution of carbolic acid (1-20). The carbohc acid soon flies off, and there is left in the application next the woimd merely the unirritating double cyanide; and under this we find that not only do wounds, the edges of which are brought accurately together, unite beautifully by first intention, but even granulating sores heal by the gradual process of cicatrisation from the edges in a way that we have never seen so satisfactorily under any other dressing. To make a quick dressing with it, take some of the cyanide powder, and stir it up with 1-4,000 sublimate solution, so as to produce an opaque liquid, and. put linen rags into it, and then place them in a folded towel to take out the excess of liquid ; you have your dressing ready, prepared then and there." Boracic add has weak germicide action. It is used in solution on prepared lints and cotton wool, and as an ointment. The ointment consists of two strengths. The strong (1-5) is adapted for dressing deep wounds, &c., and the weak is one of the best applications for all superficial and granulating sores. It is antiseptic and quite unirritating. Several folds of lint soaked in warm boracic lotion, and applied to a part when covered with oil-silk or guttapercha, forms the antiseptic poultice. A cold saturated solution contains 4 per cent, of boracic acid. Salicylic acid has a stronger germicide action than boracic acid. It is used in the same way. Cheyne says that Thiersch uses jute instead of cotton to impregnate with this acid. This jute is made from the bark of * Medical Society, London. Lancet, Nov. 9,18S9.