112 WOUNDS AND INJURIES TO THE SPINE. Cord- But certain cases of injury of the back are met with in which paraplegia has directly c.r shortly afterwards occurred, and in which upon examination of the spine after death, no fracture, displacement, extrava sated blood or anything capable of compressing the cord, can be dis- covered. 1 he explanation therefore given is, that the spinal cord had been damaged by concussion." _ The foUowimj symptoms of concussion are usually present from direct violence :-Pain at the seat of the injury, vomiting. If the phrenic nerve IS irritated hiccough, and feeling of constriction round the body wiU be present._ When the vagus nerve is irritated, there wiU be a sense of sutiocation, with probably irregular action of the heart and distressing vomiting, ihere may be loss of power over the sphincters of both bladder and anus, with incontinence or retention of urine or faeces or the bladder only may be affected. ' In concussion from indirect violence, the symptoms are sometimes insidious and protracted, and do not show themselves untQ the more apparent injuries are recovered from. For instance, after an explosion men, who have been badly burnt or otherwise obviously injured after recovery from these injuries often develop a secondary train of nervous symptoms, which quite unfits them for the performance of their duties and renders them utterly miserable and helpless. They become nervous and timid, and different from their former selves. Treatment.—In treating these injuries, absolute rest to the parts is the principal object to be arrived at. Mr. Erichseii, who appears to have made a special study of this sub- ject, says—" The importance of rest cannot be over-estimated. Without it no other treatment is of the slightest avail." He considers it of the utmost importance to insist upon absolute and entire rest, for this reason, that not infrequently patients feel for a time benefited by movement, but nothing can be more erroneous than this idea, for the patient will invari- ably be found to fall back into a worse state than had previously existed. With this rest, which should be in the prone position, he recommends chloral to procure sleep, and the bromide of potassium to aUay the irritability. Counter irritation may be applied to either side of the spine, and, if there are inflammatory symptoms present, ice may be used with advantage. Subsequently tonics in the form of iron, strychnine, and cod liver oil. Compression of the spinal cord may be induced by injuries to the vertebrse, such as fractures, dislocation, penetration by gun-shot wounds, or by extravasation of blood or pus. The symptoms produced depend much upon the position of the injury. These injuries are of the greatest importance to the patient, as much will depend, as regards the future of the sufferer, on the amount of damage inflicted. In dislocations or fractures without an external wound, the symp- toms which generally present themselves are shock to the nervous system, Iirofound collapse, pain in the seat of injury, tumefaction of injured part, unevenness or depression of projections in the process of the vertebrse, and paralysis of the body below the level of fracture.