88 WOUNDS OF THE NECK. must be removed by operation, and when extensive inflammation is set up caiising infiltration or ojdema, it may be necessary to open the trachea, and insert a tube to allow the sufferer to breathe. An interesting case is given by the Surgeon-General of the American Army, where the larynx became so obstructed after a wound, that it was necessary to open it and prolong the incision as far as the third ring of the trachea ; the proceeding was successful. Should clots of blood get into the larynx or trachea, and they are not coughed up, an endeavour must be made to remove them by sucking, or by means of an exhausting pump. Wounds in connection with the larynx or trachea, or in theu- vicinity, should not be closed till all haemorrhage has ceased, for fear of suffocating the patient. These wound- may be accompanied by emphysema, causing much distress, which should be treated by smaU punctures, if it extends ; but as a rule it wiU pass away when suppuration of the wound commences. Wounds of the (Esophagus.—For wounds of the oesophagus but little can be done, Nature performmg all that is required in healing; and it is sometimes most remarkable how quickly this is effected. Wounds of the oesophagus may render the patient unable to swallow without much dis- comfort, or m many cases not at all, when it wiU be necessary to give him nourishment by a gum-elastic tube introduced through the nose into the stomach, or by enemata of beef-tea, milk, gruel, and other nutritive fluids. During the Crimean War a complicated case of bullet-wound of the larynx and oesophagus came under Porter's immediate care, the particulars of which may be recorded here : At the assault on the great Eedan, the sufferer having mounted the parapet, and while in the act of reloading on his knees, was shot from below by one of the enemy, who was im°- mediately at the bottom of the parapet. He fell on his side, did not feel much pain, but could not speak. On arrival at the camp hospital, two wounds were found in the neck ; the ball had entered at the pomum Adami and made its exit at the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle of the right side. There was very little haemorrhage from either wound, and no displacement of the thyroid cartilage. The patient was suffering from a frequent cough with bloody expectoration, loss of voice, and nausea ; bubbles of air appeared at every expiration at the wound of entrance in the larynx ; and when he attempted to drink, some of the fluid came through the wound at the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid. the wound of exit. This latter symptom continued for five days, and then ceased altogether ; for twelve days the au- continued to pass through the upper wound and then ceased. The cough during that time was very troublesome, and the expectoration copious, which caused much loss of rest ; during the first six days there was slight emphysema about the upper wound, but it gradually disappeared. The treatment consisted at first of antiphlogistic remedies, both local and constitutional; and lint wet with cold water was kept constantly to the wound. He was fed by means of a spoon passed very far back, containing arrowroot, milk, or tea ; his diet was gradually increased after five days, he was able to swallow bread softened in tea, rice,