103 WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. the duration of the shock is of greater importance than its intensity, a small and quiet pulse, and hurried respiration, associated with acutely severe, persistent, and localised pain increased on pressure, while the temperature remains either normal or subnormal, indicates the nature of the injiiry and points to the necessity of the operation of abdominal section."* On the ground that prolonged shock is usually due to internal haemorrhage, which if not checked will certainly lead to a fatal termination. Penetrating Wounds of the Abdomen, with protrusion of the viscera, are serious, whether incised, lacerated, punctured, or gun-shot. Protrusion of the Intestine. —If the wound in the abdomen has been made by a cutting or lacerating instrument, or by a round ball or rifle bullet, it may be followed by protrusion of some portion of the contents of the alDdomen, the omentum, mesentery, or intestine being most usual. The protruded mass is always very large in comparison with the aperture from which it escapes, and is held very tightly by the lips of the wound. If left unreduced, the mass will soon become gangrenous from pressure ; it should therefore be cleansed in warm, weak antiseptic lotion, and returned into the cavity of the abdomen, after which the wound is to be closed by sutures which should include the peritoneum as well as other tissues. Mr. Erichsen suggests that the abdominal muscles should be relaxed by bending the thigh upon the abdomen, when the protrusion may be pushed back by steady pressure u]pon it, but no force should be employed. If the parts cannot be reduced, the aperture through which they have escaped must be enlarged in the direction upwards, _ In replacing them, care should be taken that they are fairly put back into the cavity of the abdomen, and not pushed into the sheath of the rectus or in front of the peritoneum. "If omentum protrudes, when it can be returned, do so after thorough purification, and then stitch the abdominal walls, including the peri- toneum, close together. Where, from adhesions or other sufficient cause, this cannot be done, or where the omentum is very dirty, it would be the safest i^ractice, especially in the case of a person with strong mus- cular parietes, to stitch the deepest part of the omentum to the deepest part of the wound, cut off the remainder, and close the skin over alV'-Cheyne.f Gangrene of Protruded Intestine.—Should the protruded part of an intestine become gangrenous from continued contraction and exposure, it should not be reduced, but an incision should be made through it, or the gangrenous part removed, so as to clear away faeces and admit of an artificial anus, by attaching the cut edges of the bowel to the wound in the abdomen. Wound of Protruded Intestine.—Protruded intestine may be punc- tured, incised, lacerated, or completely divided. Some difference of opinion amcmg surgeons has existed as to the proper method of dealing with the wounded gut. Guthrie recommends—" When the wounded bowel protrudes, or the *Oii Abdominal Section, i;ir Win. MacCormac, p. 36. f Antiseptic Surgery.