128 WOUNDS OF THE EXTREMriTES. muscles retain a tendency to retract which is increased by opposition, but which ceases by-and-by in a favourable position of the broken limb." It appears remarkable that such eminent authorities as Stromeyer and Guthrie should differ on this point; but the fact is, that Guthrie formed his opinion from experiences in the Peninsular and Crimean campaigns, where fractures of the femur were treated under circuiristances totally different from the experiences of Stromeyer, who in all probability was enabled to secure proper accommodation, food, and attendance for his wounded; whereas, during the Peninsular and Crimean Wars every discomfort and inconvenience that man could be subjected to were present with the British army, which unfortunate circumstances gave conservative treatment the disadvantage. Pirogoff, in 1849, after great mortality from thigh amputation for gun-shot fractures was induced to try conservative treatment in ten cases of bad compound fracture of the thigh, which did well not only without operation but without treatment of any kind. He was also of opinion that the application of a permanent paste bandage would render the transport of such wounded possible. Duriug the Crimean War he experienced 90 to 95 per cent, death-rate in primary thigh amputations as did the French; but in the German hospitals, during the war of 1870-1871, more than thirty cases of recovery from gun-shot fractures of the upper and middle thigh were met with ; whereas, of thigh amputation only twenty-one survivors were found, and in none of these had the operation been performed in the upper third. During the early part of the siege of Sevastopol when the wounded were subjected to every discomfort that can possibly be imagined,— when the best bed was a bundle of brushwood without blankets in a bell tent on a mud floor, the prospects of treating a compound fracture of the femur conservatively were most unfavourable, and that of amputation little better; but of the two, amputation in the middle or lower third gave the sufferer the best chance. Again, take exposure in a tropical climate, with intense heat, indifferent accommodation, and want of competent nursing, amputation would no doubt be attended with more favourable results. It is, therefore, only under certain conditions,_ such as good accommodation, food, ventilation, and attendance with suitable appliances, that conservative treatment should be attempted. Dr. G. H. B. Macleod (who closely observed these injuries in the Crimea) remarks—" It can hardly be doubted that the great straining after conservatism which influenced all the surgeons of the army was one main cause of the mortality which attended these injuries." Again he says that, "under circumstances of war similar to those which occurred in the East, we ought to try and save compound comminuted fractures of the thigh when situated in the upper third, but that immediate amputation should be had recourse to in cases of like accident occurring in the middle or lower third." Erichsen considers (though doubtless there are exceptions to this, as to all general rules in surgery) that all compound fractures of the lower third of the femur occasioned by gun-shot require amputation. Mr, Hamilton of the U.S. Army, in his remarks on gun-shot fractiures