WOUNDtS AND IN J URIELS TO THE SPINE, 113 Paralysis in Injury of Spine.—The extent of paralysis differs accord- ing to the part of the spinal column injured, as, for instance, with a fracture or dislocation in the cervico-dorsal region, all the body below seat of fracture will be paralysed, and if the injury to the cord has been above the origin of the first dorsal nerve which joins the axillary plexus, some impairment in the motion and sensation of the upper extremities will be discovered ; but the principal danger overhanging the patient is connected with his respiration. Injuries of the spinal column, above the origin of the phrenic nerve, are attended with instant death. Fracture and dislocation in the dorsal region between the fourth and tenth vertebrsB causes complete paraplegia. The bladder and rectum will be paralysed, and bed sores are sure to form. fractures or dislocation of the lower lumlar rertcbrce, there may be no paraplegia or paralysis, if the injury is below the second lumbar vertebra, in consequence of "its being below the level of the spinal cord, which terminates there. Treatment.—No attempt, it was said, should be made to reduce a fracture or dislocation of the spine. Means should simply be adopted to support nature by means of nomnshing diet, to prevent sloughing bed sores by placing the sufferer on a water bed or soft mattress, the urine should be drawn off i-egularly, and great cleanliness observed. The bowels may be moved involuntarily at first; but afterwards be consti- pated, when they should be relieved by enemata. In penetrating wounds, where the vertebriB may be driven in on the cord, splinters, articles of clothing, and muscular tissue may have to be elevated, extracted, or removed. With a view to enable the surgeon to do this, the trephine, elevator, or small saw may be had recourse to. The Trephine in Injuries of the Spine.—Sir T. Longmore, in speaking of the use of the trephine in these injuries, says—"In injuries of the vertebral column and sjjinal cord occurring in military practice, the mischief is usually so complicated and extensive, and the medulla itself so bruised, that the cases miist be very rare, indeed, in which the operation of trephining, if justifiable in any case, can offer the slightest prospect of benefit." He mentions that M. Baudens extracted by means of an elevator a ball which had lodged in the eleventh dorsal vertebra, and was causing compi-ession with complete paraplegia. The paralysis disap]3eared immediately after the extraction of the biillet; but tetanus came on four days afterwards, and proved speedily fatal. Mr. Victor Horsley writes *—"I have now trephined the spine nine- teen times with one death, that is from shock. Personally I view the operation in the majority of cases as possessing the only risk of sepsis. As regards fractures of the spine, imquestionably we ought to operate with()ut delay in all cases where displacement or crepitus indicates com- pression, and when extension directly after the accident clearly fails to reduce the deformity." The course recommended to be adopted in applying the trephine is first to make an incision in the line of the spinous process about an inch deep * Brit. Med. Jonrn.. Dec. G, 1S90. 8