WOUNDS OF JOINTS. and the sooner it is done the better, as inflammatory symptoms soon set in after such injm-ies, followed by suppuration of the joint; abscesses appear among the muscles of the thigh burrowing along the bone after depriving it of its covering; the patient rapidly becomes exhausted by hectic, when interference by amputation will be too late. I7i incised loounds of the knee-joint, if not complicated, it is best to try and save the limb by enlarging the wound if necessary, thoroughly washing out the joint with an antiseptic lotion, providing for complete drainage, enveloping it in an antiseptic dressing, and rendering the limb immovable by splints; should, however, inflammation set in and pus form, free exit must be given to the matter, and the most careful anti- septic treatment by frequent washing out with mercuric chloride, or other antiseptic lotion, must be carefully attended to. Wounds of the Patella. The patella is occasionally fractured by a bullet or other missile, and if complicated with injuries to the other bones it will be impossible to save the limb. Should, however, the patella be struck in front and only split, an attempt should be made to save the limb. If antiseptic treatment is available, the fragments may be_ wired together with the same successful results as attend the operation for ordinary fracture, but any liability of the patient to sudden or frequent moves would render the treatment difficult. In all injuries to the patella, the limb should be placed in the straight position with a well-padded splint underneath, and the heel slightly raised. Wounds of the Ankle-Joint. In these injuries much depends on the amount of damage done to guide the surgeon in the treatment. If the bones are not extensively injured, and the posterior tibial artery and nerves are intact, an attempt should be made to save the foot; but, like all injuries to joints in which the surgeon might wish to save the limb, and indeed where it might be con- sidered advisable, the circumstances as regards rest, care, attention, &c., as already described, should influence him. Stromeyer, in wounds of the tibio-tarsal articulation, recommends the expectant treatment. He is opposed to resection of this joint, which was not successful in the Franco-German war of 1870-71. His plan of treating gun-shot wounds of the ankle is simply to keep the parts per- fectly immovable, and extract the pieces of splintered bone, as they become detached. Langenbeck is in favour of resection, which operation he performed with success in the German-Danish War of 1864, and the Bohemian War of 1866. He has had nine recoveries out of eleven operations. He re- commends subperiosteal resection, and complete immobilisation of the parts after the operation. Erichsen considers that if the bones be not too extensively comminuted,