240 TREATMENT OF THE APPARENTLY DROWNED. TREATMENT OF THE APPARENTLY DROWNED. Sjf itrf Tv,^* restoration of breathing, and secondly, after breathing is restored, the promotion of warmth and circulation. rv,i;T°''!i''* "/"-f clothing and wipe the body dry, cleanse the minith and nostrils, and draw the tongue forward i^lace the patient on the ground with the face downward, and one of the arms under the forehead, turn the patient well and instantly on the side supporting the head, and excite the nostrils with snuff, salts, or tickle the throat with a feather. Rub the chest and face warm and dash cold water, or cold and hot water alternately, on them. If there be no success, instantly replace the patient on the face, raising and supportino' the chest well on a folded coat or other article of dress. Turn the body very gently on the side and a little beyond, and briskly on the face back repeating these measures cautiously, efficiently, and perseve'ringly about hfteen times in the minute, or once every four or five seconds, occasionally varying the side. On each occasion that the body is replaced on the face, make uniform but efBcient pressure with brisk movement on the back between and below the shoulder-blades, or bones on each side, removing the pressure immediately before turning the body on the side. During the whole of the operations, let one person attend solely to the movements of the head and of the arm placed under it. Should these efforts not prove successful in the course of from two to five minutes, proceed to imitate breathing by Dr. Sylvester's method, as follows:— Place the patient on the back on a flat surface inclined a little upwards from the feet, and support the head and shoulders on a small firm cushion or folded article of dress placed under the shoulder-blades. Draw the tongue forward, and keep it projecting beyond the lips ; an elastic band over the tongue and under the chin will answer this purpose, or a piece of string or tape may be tied round them, or by raising the lower jaw, the teeth may be made to retain the tongue in that position. Remove all tight clothing from about the neck and chest, especially the braces. Standing at the patient's head, grasp the arms just above the elbows, and draw the arms gently and steadily upwards for two secoads. Then turn down the patient's arms, and press them gently and firmly for two seconds against the sides. ReiDeat these measures alternately, deliberately, and perseveringly, about fifteen times in a minute, until a spontaneous effort to respire is perceived, immediately upon which cease to imitate the movements of breathing, and proceed to induce circulation and warmth by commencing to rub the limbs uiawards with pressure and energy. The friction should be continued under the blanket or over dry clothing; promote warmth of the body by the application of hot-flannels, bottles of hot water, heated bricks to the pit of the stomach, the armpits, between the thighs, and to the soles of the feet. On the restoration of life, a teaspoonful of warm water should be given,