8o INJURIES OF THE HEAD. performed the better, so that the cause of irritation may be at once removed. There are certain parts of the skull to which it is recommended not to apply the trephine ; for instance, over the venous sinuses, the anterior angle of the parietal bone, the course of the sagital suture, and near the base of the skull. Sir W. Fergusson says—" The trepan may be applied in any part of the side or upper portion of the cranium, and a knov/ledge of anatomy will indicate where the bones are thick, or the reverse, and also wher(i the meningeal artery or the sinuses are in danger. The latter, I should imagine, may always be avoided; the former, if it is uecessaiy to operate over its course, may possibly be cut across, as at the side of the cranium it often runs into a canal of bone instead of being merely in a groove. A small pin of wood in such a case would suppress the bleeding, and any escape that might happen ere this could be introduced would probably be rather an advantage than otherwise ; for, generally, those who require this operation have been in robust health previously. "The irregular thickness of the bones at different parts should be remembered, and the pressure of the teeth should be made light or heavy in proportion. At the frontal sinuses, Sir Charles Bell recommended that the inner table should be taken out with a smaller-headed trephine than that which has been first applied ; the larger external opening per- mitting the entire circumference of the cutting margm of the latter instrument being placed directly on the surface within. ^^Such an opera- tion must, however, be rarely required in this situation. Suppuration within the cranium has been divided mto subcramal, intrameningeal, and cerebral. By subcranial is understood a deposit of pus between the skuU and dura-mater. It occurs opposite the seat of iniury or part struck. It may be induced by a blow on the head, causmg separation of the dura-mater from the bone by disturbmg vascular con- nection and setting up inflammation of the pericramum with necrosis; or by the irritation of splinters of the inner table, as in depressed fracture. With intrameningeal suppuration there is an accumulation of pus m the subdural or subarachnoid spaces, or in the pia-mater. In the intra- cerebral form there is an abscess in the substance of the bram itseii, caused by direct injury, by spUnters of bone, buUets, or other missiles, or ^\?eatment^of Inflammation of the Brain and its Membranes.- The treatment should consist of most vigorous measures, local bleeding bv leeches to the temples or behind the ears, mercury and cold to the head, the hair should be shaved, hot bottles to the feet, frequent enenaata of turpentine if necessary, dark rooms, perfect quiet, and spoon diet. Suppuration may be suspected when the inflammatory symptoms are interrupted by a rigor, or accompanied by hemiplegic paralysis on the side opposite the seat of injury. The formation of a puffy swelling on the scalp over the seat of injury has been suggested as the proper position to apply the trephine, but there would be no certainty m finding pus ; the trial has, however, been attended by success. ^ . rri,- Protrusion of the Brain, Fungus or Hernia Cerebn.-This arises