153 ANESTHESIA. ruptured by over-exertion, when it will be necessary to place the limb m such a position that the muscles may be relaxed, and so approximate the divided ends. In a wound, the ends should be carefully brought together with catgut sutures, and great pains taken to obtain union by first intention. When the tendo-Achillis has been cut or ruptured, an apparatus may be constructed by placing a strap, like a dog-collar, above the knee, from which a cord is attached to a loop in the back of a shoe or shpper ; by tightening this cord the muscles are relaxed. When the extensor tendons of the fingers are divided, the hand must be placed in the straight position on a splint. ANESTHESIA. Chloroform. —When administering chloroform it is advisable to have near at hand and ready for use a battery of electricity, some ammonia, and a pair of spring forceps for drawing the tongue forward. Recently- wounded men require no preparation for its administration, but a little stimulant such as wine or brandy may be given about half an hour before the chloroform is administered. The patient should be placed in the recumbent position with the head thrown well back. There have been considerable discussions of late as to the way in which chloroform affects the vital organs; on one side, it is urged that it is the respiratory centres that are j)rimarily affected, and the heart secondarily; on the other, that chloroform has a direct effect uijon the heart itself. Surgeon-Major Laurie, I.M.S., thinks that the experimental data of the Hyderabad Commission* prove—1, that the administration of chloroform is free from risk if the breathing is perfectly regular through- out and the inhalation is stopped as soon as the patient is fully under its influence; 2, that chloroform never causes death by sudden stoppage of the heart; 3, that death from chloroform is always the result of an overdose ; 4, that the danger of overdosing is enormously increased by holding the breath, strugghng, asphyxia, or anything which causes the patient to take gasping inspirations ; and 5, that the inhibitory action of the vagus nerve, which is called into play in threatening and actual poisoning with chloroform, is a safeguard. S. M. Laurie says—" That the true art of giving chloroform, to prevent overdosing, consists not only in concentrating your attention on the breathing, but in keei^ing it absolutely regular throughout the administra- tion, and in stopping the inhalation whenever the breathing is irregular, and directly the patient is fully under the influence of the anaesthetic." No instruments should be used for the administration of chloroform, but an open cone or cup with a little cotton wool is best, and care should be taken to give it at first largely diluted with air. The administration should be guided as to the effects entirely by the respiration, if possible, the patient's chest and abdomen should be exposed during chloroform * " Report of the Second Hyderabad Chloroform Commission."—iancei, Dec, 18, 1890.