195 HEMORRHAGE. j. Aneurismal Enlargement of the vessels are very rare. Mr. Cadge has reported one case of it. k. Exfoliation of the Bone.—As little interference as possible, since in time the dead portion will be thrown of. I. Contraction of the Tendons in the neighbourhood of the stump. If causing inconvenience, and giving annoyance, the tendons may be divided. m. Maggots in Stumps have been already considered on p. 161. H^MOREHAGE. The occurrence of h?emorrhage from wounds in war may be divided into primary or immediate, intermediate, and secondary. Some writers on military surgery are of opinion that primary haemor- rhage to a dangerous extent is comparatively rare, and it is generally admitted that few cases come under the notice of surgeons on the field of battle; this, however, may be in consequence of severe injuries to large arteries proving fatal almost immediately, and the sufferers do not then come under the notice or observation of the surgeon. Mr. Hamilton, of the U.S.A., remarks—" It is one peculiar feature of gun-shot injuries that, in proportion to the number and severity of accidents, profuse arterial haemorrhage is rare. The wounds inflicted by the missiles em- ployed are generally contused and lacerated, seldom incised ; and the same general laws as to bleeding, which govern contused and lacerated wounds elsewhere and from other causes, govern here." Wounds of Arteries.—Arteries when wounded by an extremity being torn off by round shot or shell seldom bleed. Nature endeavours to establish a cure by the coats of the vessel retracting and contracting, and subsequently by adhesive inflammation. When a large vessel is only partially injured, the haemorrhage from it may prove fatal in consequence of this contraction not taking place. An artery is liable to be seriously injured by a blow or contusion; a bullet has in this manner passed between an artery and a vein without opening either, but has caused gangrene of the limb. When the principal artery of a limb is obstructed from any cause, no cold or constricting bandages or plasters should be applied to it, but a flannel bandage may be rolled round it, so as to increase its temperature and establish collateral circulation. Bullets have been known to pass between an artery and a vein, in- juring both and establishing a communication, causing what is known as an aneurismal varix. Surgical interference is not recommended in such accidents, unless a very large tumour is formed, which is likely to give way and endanger the life of the patient, when the artery sliould be cut down upon, and a ligature applied on each side of the wound. Lacerations of the innei' coats of an artei'y may be caused by consider- able violence, which may also give rise to gangrene, or at a later period to dissecting aneurism. The external or middle coats of an artery may be cut or torn throuo-h while a thin, undivided, inner portion preserves the integrity of the canal,'