i32 Wounds oP the extremities. Mr. J. T. Hodgen has invented an apparatus by means of which the limb is maintained in a straight position, while at the same time it is lifted from the bed and rendered more accessible (fig. 86). "The aiaparatus is composed of four nearly parallel bars and a foot-board; two of the bars constituting the base, and the remaining two, covered by transverse slips of cloth, being intended to receive and support the limb. " The longitudinal bars are 42 inches long, and the upper bars are elevated 4^ inches above the lower ; the space between them diminishing from the upper to the lower ends, being 12 inches at the groin, 8 at the knee, and 4 at the foot. The foot-board is 14 inches high, 4^ inches wide, and is supported by a cross-piece or foot underneath, 15 inches long. " The transverse strips of cloth, each 2J inches wide, are placed in contact, and adapted to the inequalities of the limb. "Adhesive straps are secured to the sides of the leg by a roUer,_and brought around the foot-piece ; a cord, to which is suspended a weight, is made fast to the centre of the foot-piece and passed over a pulley, and this constitutes the extension. The counter-extension is made by lifting the foot of the bed 4 or 6 inches." Mr. Hodgen has also invented a splint whereby the limb can be sus- pended, which it appears he has substituted for his own "cradle." "It is made of iron wire (size No. 2), and resembles in many points Dr, Smith's anterior splint, but its mode of application is not the same. Strips of cloth are laid across the splint from side to side, and upon these the limb is laid. The centre and upper extremity of the splint are kept asunder by strong bows of iron wire, so arranged that they can be put on or taken off without disturbing the dressings. When apphed the inside wire must be bent upwards at its upper extremity so as to make room for the pubes. Extension is made by adhesive plaster, and the whole apparatus is finally suspended to the ceiling, or to some point above, by a rope and pulley" (fig. 87). Dr. Nathan K. Smith of Baltimore has introduced a splint for fracture of the thigh, which no doubt will answer for simple or compound injuries. Fig. 86