176 °V'"'°'';,''^^*'^" "^r^.^^^ operation is completed as in the ordinary circular method."—i/s<e?-. Disarticulation of the Foot at the Ankle-joint (Svme's Am-nuf^ J-o«).-The foot being held at a right angle to Jhe leg the p^n^t^f^he knife IS introduced immediately below the malleolar projection of the fabula rather nearer its posterior than anterior edge, and then carried across the bone to the inner side of the ankle, where it terminates at the point mtly opposite its commencement. That wiU be hdow and hehind tne internal malleolus. Fig. 105. The extremities of the incision thus formed are then joined by another passing in front of the joint (fig. 105). The operator next proceeds to detach the flap from the bone, and for this purpose, having placed the fingers of his left hand over the prominence of the os calcis, and inserted the point of his thumb between the edges of the plantar incision, guides the knife between the bone and the nail of the thumb, taking great care to cut parallel with the bone, and to avoid scoring or laceration of the integuments. He then opens the joint in front, carries the knife out- wards and downwards on each side of the astragalus, so as to divide the lateral ligaments, and thus completes the disarticulation. Lastly, the knife is carried round the extremities of the tibia and fibula, so as to afford room for applying the saw by means of which the articular pro- jections are removed, together with a thin connecting slice of bone covered by cartilage. The vessels are then tied, and the edges of the wound stitched together. Staff-Surgeon Parry's modification of Syme's amputation of the foot as described by Sir Thomas Longmore, C. B.: — Eight foot.—Leg is to be held by an assistant so that the foot is on a level with the operator's chest, the foot should be inverted at first; insert the point of the knife in front of the outer border of the tendo- Achillis about one quarter of an inch above its insertion into the calcaneum, carry the incision around the outer malleolus about haK an inch below its extremity, continue it across the instep tiU it reaches the upper and inner border of the tubercle of the scaphoid which will be readily felt by the finger. Continue the incision obliquely across the plantar aspect of the foot, cutting well down to the bones, immediately