64 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. fond screw," and Luers' sharp-pointed forceps; and innumerable forceps designed to suit the fancies of military surgeons. Billroth speaks in favour of the American bullet forceps, its peculiarity being that it can be well opened even in the narrowest canals, and that it catches securely; he finds that long strong ear or nose-forceps and polypus forceps are the best. None of these can be applied without careful manipulation by the surgeon, who with his finger may be able to direct the end of the forceps towards the lodged missile, or with the hand on the outside of the limb press the bullet towards the instrument. If the wound is not very deep, the finger (especially the little one) introduced into it may, assisted by some manipulation, hook the missile with the first joint and so extract it, the wound being slightly enlarged. Bullets found near the skin, which have not had sufficient force to make an exit, require much care in removing, especially in the neigh- bourhood of a cavity, as by injudicious handling they may be pressed back into the cavity. It is, therefore, always best to fix the substance to be removed before using the knife, the incision made being free. Bullets lodged in bone, which frequently happens in the spongy ends of some without causing fracture, should be cut down upon and removed. If superficially lodged, the steel elevator will be found best suited for the purpose; or if a leaden bullet is deeply impacted, the tire-fond screw already alluded to will be found convenient, or Luers' sharp-pointed bullet forceps, which are so formed as to work into the lead and take a firm hold. In all cases of lodgment where extraction is attempted, care must be taken not to injure the great vessels and nerves, nor to cause irritation of the soft parts by extensive incisions or unnecessary violence. Gun-shot Wounds of Muscular Parts.—These wounds may be divided into four kinds :—(1) Where the missile causes no wound, but simply a contusion of the soft parts ; (2) where the missile does not enter the soft parts deeply, but carries away a portion of the skin ; (3) where the missile perforates the skin and does not escape (into this various other bodies may be carried, such as portions of uniform, pieces of cloth, buttons, pieces of leather, bone, &c.); (4) where the bullet enters at one point and escapes at another. Gun-shot wounds of muscular parts become painful, swell, and the usual symptoms of septic mfiammation set in in from twelve to twenty-four hours. The neighbourhood ot a wound m a limb may become discoloured, depending on the amount of contusion and severity of the injury. _ j • i. c t The discharge from an ordinary Septic gun-shot wound is at tirst a reddish fluid; after a day or so it becomes darker and thicker; but much will depend on the amount of sloughing likely to take place, as il the parts are much bruised or burnt, which latter condition sometunes occurs from close shots, the character of the discharge wiU be modified, and separation of the dead from the living parts wiU be longer delayed. Following the separation, there will be discharge of purulent matter, which gradually diminishes. As the wound fills with granulation, this discharge may continue for an indefinite period, m consequence of retention in the wound of some foreign body, such as a piece of clothmg