219 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. " The gangrene still advancing, fresh sloughs were rapidly formed, the increasing cup-like cavity was filled up and overtopped by them, and the erysipelatous livor and vesication of the surrounding skin gamed ground, while chains of inflamed lymphatics could be traced from the sores to the adjoining glands, these exciting inflammation and suppuration, which often furnished a new nidus for gangrene. The face of the suffereT assumed a ghastly, anxious appearance; his eyes became haggard, and deeply tinged with bile, bis tongue loaded with a brown or blackish fur, his appetite entirely failed him. and his pulse was considerably sunk m strength, and proportionally accelerated. In this stage the weakness and irritability of the patient was such, that the slightest change of pos- ture, or the most delicate examination of the sore, put him to torture, increased by his inability to steady the limb, which, if moved at all from the bed, was seized with tremors and spasmodic twitches." Mr, Hennen speaks of the torture of this disease as something terrible — "Men," he says, "who had borne amputation without a groan, shrunk at the washing of their sores, and shuddered at the sight of a dead com- rade, or even on hearing the report of his death, instantly predicting their own dissolution, and sinking into sullen despair. The third and last stage was now fast approaching. The surface of the sore was con- stantly covered with a bloody oozing, and, on lifting up the edge of the flabby slough, the probe was tinged with dark-coloured grumous blood, with which also its track became immediately filled; repeated and copious venous bleedings now came on, which rapidly sunk the patient; the sloughs, whether falling off spontaneously, or detached by art, were quickly succeeded by others, and discovered on their removal small thickly studded specks of arterial blood. At length an artery sprung, which, in the attempt to secure it, most probably burst under the ligature. Incessant retchings soon came on, and, with coma, involuntary stools, and hiccup, closed the scene. Often, however, the patient survived this acute state of the disease, and sunk under severe irritation, absorption of putrid matter, and extensive loss of substance, without any other symptoms than those of hectic fever, arising from other sources." The muscles may become extensively exposed or destroyed, leaving a cavity with tendons, vessels, and nerves stretched across from side to side. The bones sometimes become denuded of pei-iosteum, or are attacked with the disease. Blackadder, who recorded the disease as it appeared in himself, said it commenced with local symptoms. He wounded himself accidentally with a scalpel. In the course of about sixty hours the wound became inflamed, and he was occasionally attracted to it by a smart, stinging sensation, which ultimately extended a considerable way up the arm. On the fourth day the inflammation had increased, and the stinging sensation was almost constant; headache, nausea, and general indis- position followed, with frequent chills, which increased very much to- wards evening, but which, with other symptoms, were considerably relieved by the use of neutral salts, the pediluvium, and warm diluents. A vesicle, having a depression in its centre, and having a watery fluid of a livid colour, was now forming upon a hard and elevated base ; the