106 WOUNDS OP THE ABDOMEN. SopSn^?^trrt. ^^y^^^"? °^ '^"^ Much difference of X stomaoh Tf ^ ^'^^^^ of practice in punctured wounds should be £ somewhat small, it is recommended it Sdleand finl lr interrupted suture by means of a delicate or one of its Zr^l Ta^ extensive wounds, the continued suture, Tvr n nuinerous modifications, may be applied. of Koma?h h.?''= "Wherethere is a fair presumption that a wound onenfnl i^f H bas occurred, abdominal section sliould be performed, the fistula Wl Pi-eferred to attempting the formation of a gastric- nft comnlJnif?! -fri'^^^ is.on the anterior side or at all accessible, and " SoT ■ • otherwise fatal injury, it should be thus dealt with cavffv nnl''? '"i extravasation prevented, and the abdomina cavity can be cleansed and disinfected " * ' Treatment of Penetrating Abdominal Wounds.-Tn endeavourin- to frnfrJ ''^^'^Y'^ to the part injured, the surgeon will find much help from collateral evidence ; from the size of the instrument that inflicted it, the position and direction of the wound, and the character of any stains which may appear on the wound or clothing. Parkes states : " Nothing can possibly be more uncertain and erratic than the track of a bullet through the body ; any slight obstruction is sufficient to divert it from the direct line of flight. No reliable inference a^ to the course of a bullet can therefore be made from the position of the wounds of entrance and exits." And he further adds : "The wounds ot entrance and exit of the bullet should not be disturbed in any manner except to control bleeding or to remove foreign bodies when present " ±lis experiments also prove how useless it is to expect that the intestines win escape being wounded after the passage of a bullet through the abdomen. In a case, therefore, of a penetrating bullet wound, we may assume that the intestines must also be wounded; and Parkes' experi- ments prove that the haemorrhage will be severe and out of all x^roportion to the size of the vessels injured, and that it cannot be controlled Avithout an abdominal section. if the intestine has been wounded, it is absolutely certain that there will be extravasation of the contents of the bowel into the ab- dominal cavity, though there may be no sign of this externally. As these two results—viz., haemorrhage and extravasation—are the certain causes of septic peritonitis, "it will be more reasonable," saj's MacCormac, "to submit the patient to the less serious risk incurred by abdominal section than to leave him in the deadly peril, from the conse- quence of a wounded intestine or a bleeding vessel, on the mere as.sump- tion that they may possibly have escaped injury. But, although there may be uncertainty as to the extent of the lesion, it is surely better to solve the doubt by an exploratory abdominal section which may afford the only possible means of rescue. The operation is practically useless after twenty-four hours have elapsed, or when general peritonitis and great collapse have set in. A moderate amount of peritonitis, however, by no means contra-indicates the operation." * On Ahdominal Section, by Sir William MacCormac, P.E.O.S., page 30.