120 WOUNDS OF THK EXT HEM 1 TIES. into simple, compoimd, and comminuted; l)ut in consequence of the instruments or weapons which inflict then) in war, they, as a rule present pecu iarities to the army surgeon not met with in civil life, where accidents to bones generally arise from falls, kicks, or muscular action: whereas in the army, fractures are for the most part caused by direct vio ence, by spent cannon-shot, bullets, slugs, grape-shot, fragments of snell, and other missiles causing many compUcations. Simple Fractures are probably the most rare of all kinds met with on active service ; but should such occur in the field, the surgeon wdll have much to consider, as, from any want of care, or from improper adjustment ot splints, the broken ends of the bones may protrude through the soft parts and form a compound fracture. There may be great contusion of the soft parts, Avhich will interfere with the adjustment of the splints, and add to the difficulties in trans- port. Numerous plans have been invented and proposed for the transport of fractured limbs, such as plaster of Paris bandages, wire-trough splints of the Trench, and various splints made from materials which may be found at the time of the injury, as already described under the head of Extemporary Appliances" (p. 32, ct seq.) Compound Fractures are usually produced by the direct contact of a bullet or other missile with the bone, and consequently inflictmg most serious injury to the bone itself and surrounding parts, but not neces- sarily producing a comminuted fracture, as might be expected. Partial Fractures.—Sir T. Longmore describes partial fractures, which he says "can scarcely be iiroduced by any other agents besides projectiles, and which are rare accidents in civil practice. They are :— 1. liemoval of portion of a bone by the projectile making a furrow in its passage across its surface—grooving it. 2. Eemoval, splintering off, of longitudinal fragments from the external cylindrical part of a bone. 3. Removal of a part of the bone by completely punching out a portion, thus leaving a hole through the entire substance of the bone. 4. Partial fracture, by driving inwards parts of the external cylinder, and causing the fragment to lodge in the cancellated structure. This latter partial fracture is generally attended with lodgment of the projectile also. Among the complete fractures, those attended with general comminution in the neighbourhood of the part of the bone struck, with dispersion of the fragments among the surrounding soft tissues, and those which may be spoken of as ' resecting fractures,' can hardly be caused accidentallj', except by fire-arm projectiles." And lastly, " indirect fissured fractures," which he describes as a fissured or linear fracture occurring at some distance from the point of impact of the projectile, with an interval of sound bone between the seat of known fracture and the indkectly pro- duced fissure. This distinct and separate fissure in the shaft of a long bone would account for inflammation, and persistent irritation being set up in a limb at a distance from the known seat of injury. Considerations respecting the management of Simple and Com- pound Fractures in the Field. —In arranging for the management of tractures in the field, many difficulties have to be contended with—first, file transporting of patient from field to fixed hospitals, then the securing