HO WOUNDS OF JOINTS. restore the utility of a limb or joint, as in osseous anchylosis of the elbow or m faulty osseous anchylosis of the knee. ' If the injury to the joint is not of such a nature as to require amputa- tion or excision at once, it probably may be saved if free incision is made into It, all small loose fragments of bone or cartilage removed, and the cavity well washed out with a corrosive sublimate lotion (1-500), drainage tubes inserted, and the part covered with a dry absorbent dressing and rendered as immovable as is possible. In about three weeks or earlier Cheyne recommends passive motion to be begun. ' Wounds of the Shoulder-Joint. All wounds of the soft parts in the proximity of the shoulder-joint are deserving of the greatest consideration. Neudorfer specially remarks on this, and says—" It occurs that wounds which do not open the joint primarily injure the same to such an extent, that in a short time com- plete suppuration of the joint ensues." An obscure case of this group occurred in a soldier of the 23rd Regiment, who was wounded during the Ashantee expedition of 1874. A leaden slug entered the head of the left humerus without fracturing the bone, or opening the capsule of the joint, or causing much primary irritation ; five months subsequently inflamma- tion and suppuration of the joint set in, for which Porter performed excision of the head of the bone. (See Army Medical Reports fm-1873.) _ Should the joint be laid open by a sabre cut, or slightly wounded by a rifle-bullet, the soft parts not much lacerated, no large vessel or nerve wounded, and the constitution of the sufferer good, the wound ought to be well washed out, a drainage tube inserted, so that, by careful atten- tion and dressing, and keeping the limb at perfect rest, recovery may take place. Should the head of the humerus be splintered, the articulat- ing surface injured, the soft parts only slightly damaged, and no wound of great vessel or nerve, the operation of excision is advocated, which, in the hands of British surgeons, has been found most successful, and has given the sufferer a comparatively useful limb. Sir T. Longmore records, during the Crimean War, that of thirteen resections of the shoulder-joint in the English army, there was only one death ; eight of these were primary and five secondary operations ; and that, during the New Zealand campaign, several resections were per- formed with remarkably successful results. Partial Excision of the Head of the Humerus may be performed, but the results heretofore have not been altogether satisfactory. In the reports of the American War, fourteen cases of partial excision are recorded, in seven of which the arm was useless. In the same reports cases are given in which 3, 4, 5, and even 6 inches of the shaft of the humerus as well as the head were excised, some of the patients recovering with fair power of the hand and forearm, and others without any im- pairment. Mr. Otis, in analysing the treatment of 2,328 cases of wounds of the shoulder-joint, arrives at the following conclusion :— 1. That in slight shot injuries of the shoulder-joint an expectant con- servative treatment is justifiable,