29 SERVICE IN THE FIELD. drainage, they should be easy of access, near roads or railways, and all advanta4 taken of buildings that may be suitable, if none are suitable Spital mar^fees w^^^ be furnished from the Base Separate accommo- dation is always to be provided for sick and wounded officers. Ail sick transport from the field hospitals in front along the hues of communica- tion is to be provided by the General Officer Commanding lines of communication, and when parties of sick and wounded are about to be sent from the field hospitals, the P.M.O. of Divisions must ^yarn the P M 0. of lines of communication, who will then make provision tor medical inspection, attendance, and supplies on the road. With each party of sick and wounded proceeding towards the Base, a non- commissioned officer of the Medical Staff Corps will take charge of the pack-store list, kit, arms, and accoutrements of the men and should a man be left iu an hospital on the line of communication, his pack-store list, kit, arms, and accoutrements are to be left with him. Imt it a man dies on his journey to the Base, his effects are to be taken on and handed over to the Officer Commanding the military dep6t at the Base On arrival of a sick convoy at the Base, the medical certifacates and nominal rolls are to be handed over to the P.M.O., the kits are to accompany the men to hospital, but the arms, amunition, and accoutre- ments are to be handed over to the Officer Commanding the military ''^A^General Hospital at the Base, with military depot attached, is to be formed at the base for 500 patients, if inexpedient to form it on shore its place may be taken by an hospital sliip. It is to be organised ami administered in a similar manner to such hospitals in peace. Separate accommodation is to be furnished for officers. . i t 1 1 A depot of military and surgical stores at the Base will be established for the supply of hospitals and ships. The medical officer in charge will obtain his fresh supplies by requisition on the Director-General at home. First Field Dressings.—During the progress of an engagement, as well as after it is over, the Kegimental and Bearer Company Surgeons will be called upon to attend tlie wounded. At this period there \\nll not be much time for careful examination, and it will tax all their physical powers to meet the pressing claims of each wounded soldier as he may be found. It is to enable the wounded man to have some means of temporarily dressing his wound at once, that attention has been given to providing some form of first dressing that may be at hand when required. Sir T. Longraore says*—" Some of the reasons for providmg soldiers with first field dressing packets are, that it is natural to seek to cover a wounded surface; hence it is wise to provide a soldier with a suitable material; he may, when wounded, be far from any medical aid, as on outpost duty, recoiinoissances, or other mounted duty; the course of a wound depends in many cases upon its first treatment, hence the necessity of an antiseptic dressing; the quicker a wound is covered up the less the danger from infectious outside matter, pressure quickly applied is often a sufficient haemostatic." * "First Field Dressing," by Sir Thos. Longmore, C.B. Transactions of the International Medical Congress, Washington., U.S., vol. 11.