121 WOUNDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. of proper beds, ventilation, and nursing. If an attempt is made to save a limb extensively fractured, the surrounding skin should be scrupuioiisiy cleaned, the wound, if very small, should be closed by antiseptic iint or wool, and every endeavour made to form a scab, whilst splints or plaster of Paris are so applied as to ensure absolute rest to the broken bones. But if the wound in the soft parts is large, or if it has been exposed tor some time before coming under notice, the whole wound should be thoroughly washed out by a strong antiseptic lotion, such as a 1-500 sub- limate or a 1-20 carbolic solution, or by one of chloride of zmc, 40 gr.s. to the oz., or by tincture of iodine, 1 drachm to 10 oz. of water. The best way to do this is by means of a catheter and syringe, the solution used should be made to go into all the interstices of the wound, but yet must not be forced into the connective tissue around the seat of injury, a thorough drainage must be established, then the wound should be dressed with some of the absorbent and antiseptic wools or lints, as the sali- cylated, or sal alembroth wool, iodoform gauze, &c.; but if these cannot be obtained, then the best dressing would be free and frequent irrigation with some antiseptic solution, and a covering of oil-sillc immediately over the wound, protected by means of soft tenax, carbolised tow, or cotton wool. The greatest care should be taken to avoid all retention of dis- charge, counter-openings being made when necessary. Supposing the wound to keep aseptic, the blood clot in it should not be disturbed but be most carefully protected. Mechanical appliances are now so perfected that, with the exception of some fractures of the femur, there is no lesion of the bones of the ex- tremities that surgeons need have the slightest hesitation in transporting for considerable distances, prior to inflammatory symptoms setting in, care being observed as to the adaptation and application of splints. Dr. Stromeyer remarks on this important subject—"Above all things it appears to me to be necessary, that cases of gun-shot fracture of the thigh should not be transported to a distance, but should be carried on a stretcher to the nearest house, and the treatment carried out there, even at the risk that the wounded should fall into captivity." Gun-shot Fractures of the Upper Extremities are less dangerous than in the lower, circumstances being as nearly as possible alike. Gun-shot Fractures of Humerus.—Guthrie remarks—"An upper extremity should not be amputated for almost any accident which can happen to it from musket-shot; and there is scarcely an injury of the soft parts likely to occur which would authorise amputation as a primary operation." Sir T. Longmore considers that " unless the bone be extremely injured by a massive projectile, or longitudinal comminution exist to a great extent, especially if also involving a joint, or the state of the patient's health is very unfavourable, attempts should always be made to preserve the upper extremity after a gun-shot wound." The experience of the American War gives authority for conservatism in dealing with shot fractures of the humerus, except in most aggravated cases. Drs. Warren and Ohisholm in their manuals advise attempts to save the limb even when the fracture is complicated by division of the