AMPUTATION. 159 amputation by the rectangular flaps, the anterior being long and the posterior short. The disadvantages of this plan of operation consist in the necessity of sawing the bone at a higher point when one long flap is made, than when two shorter ones of equal, or nearly equal, length are fashioned. In gun-shot wounds it appears especially unsuited, as in many injuries requiring amputation good double flaps may be formed from the soft parts, and a joint may thus be saved. Take, for instance, injuries below the knee or elbow, in which, if one long anterior flap is formed, it must be at the sacrifice of the joint and the consequent increased risk to the life of the sufferer by the high amputation. In cutting skin flaps, Sir Jos. Lister particularly cautions young oper- ators against directing the edge of the knife towards the skin in raising flaps of integuments. He says,* "such a practice necessary in anatomy will, if carried into an amputation, most seriously endanger the vitality of the flap, which derives its supply of nourishment from vessels rami- fying in the fat. I am satisfied that integument designed to form a covering for the stump is often made to slough for want of scrupulous attention to this simple point." Also he says, "that the skin should always be cut perpendicular to its surface, for if it is levelled off to a thin edge it is not only unsuited in shape for adaptation with a view to primary union, but the margin may slough for lack of nutriment. Again, in transfixing a limb it is desirable that this should be done in a con- tinuous manner, for if the instrument be thrust in for a certain distance and then partially withdrawn and made to follow a new track, the punctm-ed wound first made may cause very troublesome hfemorrhage, if a considerable arterial branch happen to be divided by it. The operator should always stand so as to be able to control with his left hand the part which he removes. In tying vessels, the catgut ligature with short cut ends has none of the inconveniences of the long threads of silk or flax formerly employed; there is no objection to tying mere oozing points however numerous. The principal veins may also be tied, as the dread of exciting phlebitis by such treatment is entirely groundless." Mr. Heather Bigg, the experienced mechanician, in a recent work,t offers some valuable suggestions to surgeons. He says the amount of covering to be left over the end of a stump should not be excessive, for it is a rule never to take any bearing on an operative end of a stump if it can possibly be avoided. After a Pirogoff, a bearing can be entirely taken on the end of the stump, but in this case it is a natural surface and not an operative one. With amputation through the ankle (Syme's) or through the knee-joint, some bearing can generally be taken on the stump ends, although the entire weight of the body cannot usually be borne on them. Hence, whenever actual section of bones exist in the stump end, bearing cannot be taken, and a full and padded covering of muscle is useless. The greatest care should be taken in rounding the ends of the cut Ijone, especially in the case of tibia and bones of the forearm. * Vide Holmes' System of Surgery, vol. iii. t Artificial Limbs and Amputations.