82 woUNBS OF THE FACE AND ADJACENT PART^. ; Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 9,18S6. "In using the trejihine commonly sold, it is necessary to raise it from the groove from time to time, so as to allow the particles of bone to be brushed away ; but the blade being slit up obviates this. However, towards the latter part of the operation it is proper to remove the teeth once or twice, and examine the fissure with the point of a probe, a slip of quill, or any other convenient article, so as to make sure that the dura- mater is not in danger from the skull-cap being thicker on one side of the opening than the other." Victor Horsley says—" For brain surgery, the head should be shaved and cleansed, the scalp raised by a semilunar flap, the bone is removed by a couple of trephine holes made at the opposite extremities of the area to be removed. The section is completed by Hey's saw and the bone forceps. The dura-mater should be so incised that its edges can be subsequently united by suture." * WOUNDS OF THE FACE AND ADJACENT PARTS. Wounds of the face, like those in other parts of the body, may be incised, contused, punctured, and lacerated. The rate of mortality from these wounds is not great, but they are liable to be attended by serious disfiguration and troublesome complica- tions in lesions of the ears, nose, eyes, cheeks, forehead, tongue, jaws, teeth, and mouth, interfering with articulation, mastication, deglutition, hearing, seeing, smelling, glands, and ducts. The causes of mortality in these wounds or injuries may be classed under the heads of _ secondary haemorrhage, lodgment of bullets or other missiles in bone, poisoning the constitution from suppuration and swallowing foetid pus and decomposed tissues, inability to take food or masticate, neuralgia, and paralysis ; the sufferers in some instances, when the bone becomes permanently diseased, being most wretched and miserable from the continued foetid discharge, preventing them from joining the society of their fellow-creatures. All wounds of the face show great aptitude for heahng. It is, there- fore, best to endeavour, with the least possible delay, to cleanse and approximate the parts, bringing them together with, fine sutures, while, when a wound has been inflicted by sharp instruments and is not deep, the skin only should be included by the silk; but in the event of the cheek being divided into the mouth, the stitches should be somewhat deeper. Wounds implicating the Bones of the Face.—In the event of bones being cut into, separated, or displaced, they should be readjusted, and having been cleansed, the skin should be brought over them and stitched, as in the case of an incised wound. Professor Chisholm gives an account of the plan adopted by medical officers of the Confederate Array in the treatment of wounds of the upper jaw. There was fair result, but much deformity was left in many cases. " Unless the fragments are either completely detached or but shghtlv adherent, they should not be taken away, but shoidd be replaced with