OSTEO-MYELITIS. 231 carefully examined and ascertained. In incipient cases the medulla will be found i>rotruding like a fungus, and the bone surrounding it exposed to a greater or lesser extent. At a later period, the end of the meduUa is found already blackened and encrusted, but within it is a putrid mass of bone debris and pus—a probe readily passing down the entire length of the shaft. In the former stage you can wait and watch progress, the mischief may be limited, and a ring of bone be thrown off. But in the latter case immediate interference is necessary, and nothing less than amputation, either at or above the next joint, will suflBce. The consti- tutional symptoms will also have indicated the necessity for interference, and they are the symptoms of pycemia of a marked character." "The condition of the soft parts must not deceive. It is no uncommon thing to see the dead and putrid bone lying in the midst of perfectly healthy soft parts, and therefore the condition of the bone and the con- stitutional symptoms must be the guide as to the time and necessity for operation." M. Jules Roux, in consequence of the fatal results of amputation and resection for this disease, proposed and carried out disarticulation of the injured bone. Of twenty-two cases in which he performed secondary disarticulation of joints for osteo-myeUtis, aU recovered ; whereas every soldier died whose limb was secondarily amputated through the con- tinuity of the injured bone, after the battles of Magenta, MontebeUo, and Solferino. Fayrer urges the removal of the limb at the next joint above the affected bone. He says, in the cases of the hip and shoulder, disarticu- lation, of course, alone is practicable ; whereas, in the leg and forearm, the respective advantages of disarticulation at the elbow or knee may fairly be questioned—and he has no hesitation in siiying that, except in cases of endemic tendency to osteo-myeiitis, section of the humerus or femur, in their lower third, is as good an operation as disarticulation, if not better than the latter. The great point to be attained is the removal of the whole of the suppurating bone. Whenever there is an endemic tendency to osteo-myelitis in a hospital, this disarticulation, though, in itself, inferior as an operation to section of the bone (according to his view in the case of the elbow and knee), should be preferred to amputa- tion through the bone, as the fresh bone-wound might, under the endemic influence, give rise to a fresh attack. Operative measures should be adopted at an early period, before pysemic sj'mptoms have commenced to appear, as, once that disease has set in, amputation, disarticulation, or excision are of no avail. It is, however, a difficult point to decide how long amputation may be deferred on the chance of the mischief being limited, and the diseased part thrown off without the constitution being affected. The constitutional treatment in this disease should be improvement of the system by tonics, wine, nutriment, change of air, and strict attention to hygienic conditions.