ROYAL NAVY AND INDIAN PILOT SERVICE. 249 The space between corps should be 25 yards or 30 paces—distances in Infantry Camps are usually reckoned by yards. 5 yards = 6 paces. A square mile = 640 acres = 3,097,600 square yards. REGULATIONS AS TO DEFECTS OF VISION FOE CANDIDATES FOR COMMISSIONS IN THE ARMY.* The following will be substituted for paragraph 10136, added to the Regulations for the Army Medical Department by Clause 53, Army Circulars, 1887 :— Letters and numbers corresponding to Snellen's Metrical Test-Types (Edition 1885) will be used for testing the standard of vision. If a candidate's vision, measured by Snellen's test-types, be such that he can read the types numbered D. = 6 at 6 metres or 20 English feet, and the types numbered D. =0'6 at any distance selected by himself, with each eye separately and without glasses, he will be considered tit. If a candidate cannot read with each eye separately, without glasses, Snellen's types marked D, =36 at a distance of 6 metres or 20 English feet, i.e., if he do not possess one-sixth of Snellen's standard of normal acuteness of vision, although he may be able to read the types D. = 0'6 at some distance with each eye, he wiU be considered uniit. If a candidate can read with each eye separately Snellen's types numbered D. = 36 at a distance of 6 metres or 20 English feet, without glasses, but cannot; read them beyond that distance, i.e.. if lie just possesses one-sixth of normal acuteness of vision, and his visual deficiency is due to faulty refraction, he may be passed as fit, provided that, with the aid of correcting glasses, he can read Snellen's type D. =6 at 6 metres or 20 English feet, with one ej'-e, and at least Snellen's tj'pes D. = 12 at 6 metres or 20 English feet, with the other eye ; and, at the same time, can read Snellen's type marked D. =0 8 with one or both eyes, without the aid of glasses, at any distance the candidate may select. Squint, inability to distinguish the principal colours, or any morbid condition, subject to the risk of aggravation or recurrence in either eye, will cause the rejection of a candidate. ROYAL NAVY AND INDIAN PILOT SERVICE.f 1. A candidate is disqualified unless both eyes are emmetropic. The candidate's acuteness of vision and range of accommodation must be perfect. 2. A candidate is disqualified by any imperfection of his colour sense. 3. Strabismus, or any defective action of the exterior muscles of the eyeball, disqualifies a candidate for the Royal Navy. ♦Para. 779, Part i., Regulaiions for Medical Services. 1890. t "Regulations as to Defects of Vision for the Civil and Military Services of the Goveniment of India," by Sir J. Fayrer, K.O.G.I., F.R.S.