PYEMIA. 227 lated, with visceral congestion, subserous petechise, early and intense po>it-morlem staining, and usually a swollen and softened spleen. In some cases there is pneumonic consolidation of the luug, and there may be pleurisy, with blood-stained effusion."—Erichsen* Treatment.—Locally thorough antiseptic treatment of the wound, plenty of fresh air, and everything that could sustain and strengthen the flagging powers, as wine, brandy, quinine, &c. PYEMIA. The science of bacteriology has quite demonstrated that pyasmia can no longer be considered a specific disease. It has been shown that in pyaemic products one or more kinds of the pyogenic cocci are always present,^ thus estabhshing the direct relationship between a suppurating process in some parts of the body and the development of metastatic or pyasmic abscesses. Pyaemia, then, depends upon an e.xtension of the suppurating process from the primary seat of infection and suppuration in distant organs, by the transportation of emboli infected with pus microbes through the systemic circulation. The distant or metastatic abscesses contain the same microbes as are f(jund in the wound secre- tions, or the abscess from which the purulent infection took place. _ It also has been proved that the introduction of pus microbes into the circulation is not necessarily or even usually followed by pyaemia, if they do gain entrance their pathogenic action is prevented by an adequate resistance on the part of the tissues, and they are effectively disposed of by the leucocytes (phagocytosis). If, however, the same number of microbes are present in combination with fragments of a blood-clot or other solid materials which, after they have become impacted in the blood-vessels by embolism, produce sucli alterations in the tissues sur- rounding them as to prepare the parts for their pyogenic action. The same happens, if free pus microbes localise in a part the vitality of which has been previously diminished by a trauma, or by antecedent i)athological changes which render them weak, and unable to offer sufficient resistance to the growth and development of pathogenic micro-organisms.f Eosenbach divides the cases of pyagmia into two chief groups. The first is represented by cases which occur in connection with larger or smaller local affections, always, however, of considerable size, such as a suppurating joint or compound fracture, an abscess unopened or im- perfectly opened, &c. The main point in these cases is that the general symptoms are maintained by local deposits, whicli are continuously supplying the body with morbid materials. Here we see the patients pme away and die with hectic fever, and often without any other note- W()rthy symptom. The second group consist of cases in Which there is not necessarily anythmg worthy the name of a local centre The infec- tive material often enters through a small puncture, or scratch, or boil, &c. ihe main point in these cases is that a general pyjemic affection • Erichsen's Surgery. Eighth Edition, t Surgical Bacteriology, Seiin.