INTRODUCTORY GENERAL REMARKS. or other springy wood adapted to the width of the car, but at least 8 feet long and 2^ inches thick in the middle, and If inch at the ends. To the poles thus placed horizontally, there are attached on either side four cords [cccc) with knots [xxxx), so arranged that they may support on a level the stretchers (DD) on which the wounded men are supposed to he reclining. In order that, when the car is in motion, the stretchers with the ijatients may not sway backward and forward and strike against the sides of the car, the lower stretchers are fastened by Ig inch ropes to tlu-ee small iron hooks [zzz) screwed into the floor of the conveyance.* The " Bry " System.—Another mode and one largely adapted by the French is called the "Bry"system (after Colonel Bry, of the Engineers, who devised it). By this method each covered goods wagon is adapted to carry twelve wounded men on stretchers in a very comfortable and easy manner. Two pairs of stout wooden traverses, T T, are placed at either end of the wagon on each side of the door, one above the other, and each is suspended at either extremity to the side of the wagon by a stout steel spiral spring, E R. Each pair of traverses is intended to receive and support three stretchers, B B, which are held in position by some leather straps which confine the legs of the stretcher and thus prevent them from slipping. The steel spiral spring is short and very strong, and it is fastened to the side of the wagon by an iron plate which is firmly bolted to it. Each wagon can thus carry six loaded stretchers at either end in tiers of three and three. The spring takes all the jolts and jars, and so enables the wounded men to ride on their stretchers comfortably to their journey's end. (See figs. 22, 23, 24.) Ship's Hammocks, affording most easy and convenient conveyance, may be utilised for the transport of wounded in railway vans or wagons. The method recommended by the author (S. M. Porter) is to erect up- rights at either end inside each wagon (the walls of railway wagons are usually not sufficiently strong or thick enough to bear the weight of one or more men suspended in hammocks), which should be secured in a temporary manner to the roof and floor, at such a distance apart that the hammock may be fully stretched when hooked or lashed to them. To prevent the lateral motion or swing which takes place when the wagon is proceeding at speed, that portion of each hammock immediately imder the patient's knees should be supported by a stout stick placed horizontally, suspended at either end by cords attached to the roof and again to rings or hooks in the floor. It might be possible to make use of ship's hammocks for this purpose in the event of transporting sick or wounded from inland to a iiort of embarkation, where, no doubt, they could be obtained from the shipping. Horse litters were used during the American War in 1862, and are well adapted for frontier service, they may be constructed for one or two horses. For the former, one end is supported by a horse or mule, while the other end rests on the ground; with the "two-horse litter" both ends are supported, but as the horses or mules carrying such a contrivance should be well trained, the "oue-horse litter" is preferable and is easily made. * Report on a Plan for Transporting Wounded Soldiers by Railway. G. A. Otis, 187-5. 2