WOUNDS OF THE EXTREMiriES. 119 passing of stools. The misery and intense siaffering of this patient can scarcely be described, and as the healing process was entirely by granula- tion, he was a long time imder treatment. Intised wounds of the rectum and anus heal very readily, but from their close proximity to the bladder and peritoneum, inflammatory symptoms must be looked for and checked. The bowels should be kept i;i a state of perfect repose, and strict cleanliness of the pai-ts observed. Shot wounds of the Rectum are generally complicated with fractui-es of the pelvic bones or injury of the bladder, and most commonly prove fatal from pelvic cellulitis with diffuse suppuration, or from secondary hasmorrhage. Should a patient with such a wound survive, he will in all jirobability suffer from a stercoral or urinary fistula, kept open by discharges from carious bone or the occasional escajie of sequestra. These injuries may also give rise to paralysis with incontinence of faeces, obstinate constipation, stricture, muscular contraction, and recurrent abscesses. Dupuytren recommended a division of the sphincter in cases where the fjeces were retained and overflowed through the perforati(m in the upper l)art of the gut. This practice was adoi)ted with most satisfactory results during the American War and the Franco-Grermau War of 1870-71. Possibly forcible dilatation of the sphincter by means of both thumbs of the surgeon would suffice, as this paralyses the sphincter for a time ; the dilatation should be slowly and steadily effected by working the thumbs in opiJosite directions until the anus is perfectly flaccid. Haemorrhage of the Rectum should be promptly attended to; a bladder may be introduced and dilated \vith ice water directed from a tube attached to an inverted bottle or irrigator. In serious hasraorrhage the gut must be dilated by a speculum (fenestrated), and the bleeding vessels secured if possible. It may, however, be necessary to apply the actual cautery, galvanic current, or perchloride of iron. WOUNDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. Classification of Wounds of the Extremities.—These wounds may be divided into contusions, lacerations, incisions, or punctures of soft parts, injuries of bones or joints, all of which may be complicated with wounds of the great arteries or nerves. With regard to contusions, lacerations, incisions, or punctures, their treatment has already been remarked upon ; it is therefore unnecessary to refer to these again. Injuries of bones and joints will now be con- sidered, and. in connection with them, wounds of arteries and nerves. General Remarks on Gun-shot Fractures.—" Bones may be injured by having the ]ieriosteum contused or removed, as when a bullet is flattened against them, giving rise to periostitis, exfoliation or throwing off of scales, and frequently to disease of the medulla, or formation of deep abscesses producing great constitutional disturbance. ' Bones may be fractured—which injuries, as in civil life, are divided