WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. If it is decided to operate and explore the abdomen, every precaution of an antiseptic nature should of course be taken. The temperature of the room should be high, the bowels and bladder should be empty, the surface of the abdomen should be thoroughly cleansed, and the greatest care taken about the cleanliness of the operator's hands and instruments. Parkes says that the incision through the Uncaalba is the best method of procedure, as it at once gives command over the entire cavity ; therefore, any lesion likely to result in harm is far less liable to be overlooked ; it is the least vascular part of the walls ; incisions thereof are more easily and perfectly co-aptated than elsewhere, heal readily and soundly, and, as a consequence, the on-coming cicatrix is less likely to be followed by ventral hernia." The operation is incomplete unless the entire intestinal track be examined as well as the stomach and other viscera. The best way is to seek the caecum first and then trace the small intestine upwards for its length. All bleeding points must be secured and the clots swept away. Parkes thinks that bullet openings in the bowel not implicating the mesenteric border, may be dealt with by drawing the peritoneal surfaces together after turning in the torn edges of the wound, and thus convert- ing it into a linear wound. If several openings exist close together, it is better to resect the portion of intestine involved. When the points of injury are widely separated from each other and extensive damage done at each point, several resections of a length of the tube, just sufficient to include the injured portions, must be made. Perforations passing through the mesenteric surface of the intestine are the most diflBcult to treat, and even slight ones require a complete exci- sion. _ Parkes states that in his experiments upon dogs, immediately after division of the intestine there follows an instantaneous, regular, and considerable contraction of the calibre of the tube close up to the divided edge caused by the action of the circular muscular fibres. The diameter is often lessened more than half by this contraction ; this persists for a time, but is soon followed by an eversion of the mucous membrane which rolls out and over the constricted portion in a remarkable manner. I'his IDrotrusion of mucous membrane forms a serious obstacle to easy and close approximation of the ends of the bowel in the efforts to bring them together by sutm-e ; it is, however, never to be cut away as it gives strength and support to the sutures. In all instances in the expei'iments where a perforation was severe enough to require a resection of the wounded part it was found advan- tageous to leave, if possible, a strip of bowel near the mesenteric junction, taking out the wounded portion by means of a V-shaped incision. The part left acted as a support to the wound, avoided division of the blood- vessels at this point, opposed the action of the longitudinal fibres, and in no instance in which this plan was adopted was thei-e any ai:)pearance of separation of the wound, or any displacement of stitches. The point of attachment of the mesentery with the bowel will usually be found the most troublesome to manage in applying the sutures for restoring a comiilete division. The difficulty arises apparently from the manner in which the folds of peritoneum separate from each other before passing on