TETANUS. 235 I have effected or witnessed relief." Compare these remarks, written fifty-five years ago, with what Mr. Erichsen now says—" Nothing can be more unsatisfactory than the treatment of the acute form of traumatic tetanus. In it all medicines are useless as curative agents ; but though medicines are of no avail as means of cure, they may act as palliatives and afford relief to the patient.'' The line of treatment must be local, constitutional, and, if we believe in the microbic origin of the disease, thoroughly antiseptic. For this purpose, if there is a wound, it should be most carefully cleansed, and all extraneous substances, such as jjieces of clothing, bullets, and splinters of bone, should be removed. If matter is pent up, it must be evacuated; and, if the wound is inflamed, an endeavour should be made to bring it to a healthy state, taking care at the same time to guard against changes of temperature by suitable coverings if the nights are cold. Section of Nerve.—When tetanic symptoms have been induced by puncture or laceration of a nerve, Larrey recommended that the nerve should be divided, and was successful in the treatment. This expedient has also been adopted by others, and with satisfactory results. Professor Fayrer, of Calcutta, mentions a case of tetanus caused by a wound of the hand, and relieved by section of the median nerve. A case of tetanus having occurred, the bowels should first be relieved by a large turpentine enema, after which perfect quietness in a darkened room, free from noise or currents of air, must be insisted vipon, as the best means of preventing the ai:)proach of spasm. The use of the ice-bag along the spine, as recommended by Todd, has afforded relief in allaying the spinal irritation, but is a great depressant. Chloroform has been extensively used, but without any permanent benefit. Hamilton remarks on this remedv, that " it has been tried very largely during the past few years, and, so far as we can learn, almost universally by our army surgeons, but not with a success which, in our judgment, would warrant its continuance, or, to say the least, its substitution for opium or morphine." After enumerating the various remedies proposed, he goes on to say—"In our opinion, but few of these remedies are entitled to any special confidence ; by far the largest mass of testimony having accuumlated in favour of nutritious food, tonics, stimulants, and opiates, the latter of which, if employed at all, must be given in the most liberal and persevering manner ; in some cases both by the mouth and by the rectum, or by the endermic method." With regard to sedative and anti-spasmodic agents, Erichsen considers that they are of no use whatever in acute traumatic tetanus. " I have," he says, " seen many drugs of this kind employed without producing any effect in lessening the violence of the convulsions. In most cases, how- ever, the inhalation of chloroform, or the administration of chloral, materially lessens their severity, and gives the patient at least temporary ease." _ The Calabar bean has been used of late years with some success, but, like all other medicines, it has failed in many hands. It is a great depressant, and with it large quantities of stimulants as well as beef-tea should be given, so long as the patient can swallow them, if not, by