244 WATER. Btream, for animals below, washing lowest; sentries should be placed as soon as possible. "The distribution of water should be regulated ; streams are soon dried up, made turbid, and the water becomes undrinkable for want, perhaps, of simple management." In India, especially on board river steamers, where drinking-water is taken direct from the river, which is generally very muddy, a lump of alum is moved rapidly through it with satisfactory results, in proportion of 6 grs. to a gallon. In the Ashanti campaign of 1873, the water was purified by Surgeon- Major Gouldsbury's direction in the following way, in the absence of proper filters:—Alum was added to precipitate suspended matter—the water was passed through a rough filter, consisting of (1) sponge, (2) sand, (3) charcoal in pieces; it was then boiled, and a few drops of solution of potassium permanganate added. Water, even taken from a hole in a marsh, was innocuous after this treatment.* Maignen's filter was used by the troops in Egypt. As it is unlikely that any organic poison will resist the temperature of boiling, it is of the greatest importance that all suspicious water should be boiled before use. During epidemics, such as cholera, this is essential; it may even be advisable to try and supply the men with distilled water at such times : any sort of rough still would answer. One great advan- tage would be that impure water could not be substituted for it, as a few drops of solution of nitrate of silver would at once detect the presence of chlorides, which are present in all except distilled water. The Russian soldiers abstain from drinking water on the line of march in their Turkestan routes until the end of the day's journey, when they at once make tea^ and then assuage their thirst. In judging of water a few rough qualitative tests may be useful. 1st. Try as far as possible to get water that is clear, free from sediment, and colourless. 2nd. Test it with a little nitrate of silver solution and a few drops of dilute nitric acid ; good water should give only a faint haze. 3rd. Add a few drops of ^Nessler's solution: good water should give no colour. A yellow tinge makes the water suspicious. 4th. Add a little permanganate of potash solution: good water should remain pink for about ten or fifteen minutes ; if the colour fades rapidly or liecomes brown the water is to be suspected. 5th. Add some solution of starch, a little iodide of potassium solution, and a few drops of dilute sulphuric acid; if a blue colour appears at once, or within a minute or two, the water is suspicious. Other tests may be added, but these are generally sufficient for practical purposes, while thej' entaO. the use of no special apparatus. * Manual of Practical Bygiene, 7th edition, p. 31. Edited by Professor de Chaumont.