6i GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. in such a case, their kind and situation, have been decided by him; the exploration will then be completed by one operation, and a secona in- sertion of the finger for the purpose, which is always irritating to the patient, avoided. If the finger be not sufficiently long to reach the bottom of the wound, even when the soft parts have been approximated by pressure from an opposite direc- tion ; and when the lodgment of a projectile is still suspected, or some other point of doubt remains to be solved, such as the direction the projectile has taken in the latter part of its course, we are com- pelled to make a further exploration by other means. Generally, a long silver probe, that can be bent if required, and that can be guided into a definite direction at the will of the surgeon, will be found to be the best substitute for the finger. The probe should be used with great discretion, for, without care, it may readily be made to inflict injury on vessels and other structures which have escaped from direct contact with the ball, but have returned by their elasticity to the situation from which they had been pushed or drawn aside during its passage. "Sometimes, when the finger in the wound fails to find a lodged projectile, the particular spot in which it is lying may be detected simply by relaxing the muscular tissues, so as to give a loose and pen- dulous condition to the parts concerned, and then lightly tossing up the flesh at different points from below with the tips of the fingers. A bullet lodged among the soft parts will occasionally make its presence known under such an action by the impulse which its weight communicates to the top of one of the fingers when the parts, having been shaken upwards, return to their previous position. Sometimes a gentle kneading pressure in the neigh- bourhood of the injury, assisted by information derived from the sensation of the patient, will lead to the detection of such a foreign body; or it may be discovered by passing the palm of the hand down a limb. " Cases in which the exploration by the surgeon's finger is altogether impracticable, and in which the use of the probe is attended with so many sources of doubt as to prevent any satisfactory conclusion in respect to the lodgment or absence of foreign bodies from being arrived at, occasionally occur." Much venience will then be experienced unless the surgeon is in some of the contrivances for clearing up these doubts. ^ A F;g. G6. Fis. G7. trouble and incon- possession of