178 AMPUTATION. and muscles covermg the metatarsal bone.s. From each extremity of this y/ound i made an mcision (alon- the inner and outer side of the foot) to the toes. I removed all the toes at their junction with the metatarsal bones, and then separated the integuments and muscles forming the sole ot the toot froni the inferior part of the metatarsal bones, keeping the edge of my scalpel as near the bones as I could, that I might both expedite the operation and preserve as much muscular flesh in the flap as possible. I then separated with the scalpel the four smaller meta- tarsal bones at their junction with the tarsus, which was easily affected as the joints lie m a straight line across the foot. The projecting part .)t the first cuneiform bone which supports the great toe I was obliged to divide with a saw." To avoid the difficulties of disarticulation, Skey recommends cutting off the head of the second metatarsal with a pair of pliers. Baudens. (xuerin, and others, approve of sawing all the bones across in the line desired.* Removal of Metatarsal Bone of Great Toe.—" The point of a strong and broad bistoury should be entered on the dorsum of the foot over the interspace between the first and second metatarsal bones, as far back as possible; it should then be carried forwards upon the ball of the great toe, to a point opposite to the web between the toes, and thence made to sink into the sole of the foot in a line parallel with the outer margin of the bone ; the flap thus formed should be dissected back, its plantar aspect being kept as thick and fleshy as possible. The surgeon next passes the knife between the first and second metatarsal bones, and cuts directly forwards through the centre of the angle between the great and the second toes. In doing this, care must be taken that the edge of the Icnife is not directed too much towards the metatarsal bone of the gi-eat toe, lest it hitch against one of the sesamoid bones. The surgeon next seizes the extremity of the toe, and pressing it well inwards, passes the point of the bistoury deeply into the angle of the wound, where, by the division of some tendinous and ligamentous fibres that constitute the key of the joint, he opens the articulation, and detaches the bone hy lightly touching its ligamentous attachments. "When the bone is to be partially removed, the operation must be performed in the same way ; the incisions, however, not being carried so far backwards." + Removal of Metatarsal Bone of Little Toe.—"This is best done by entering the point of the knife just behind the tubercle of the bone, carrying it forwards and inwards in the line of its articulation, with the cuboid, to the centre of the fourth digital interspace, and thence for- wards to the web of the toe ; the knife is next carried round the plantar surface of this, the incision being continued obliquely into that which has been made on the dorsum of the foot. The small flap thus formed is well dissected down, the knife passed round the under surface of the bone, and the joint opened by the toe being forcibly drawn outwards, and its ligamentous connection lightly divided." + * Bell's Manual of Operative Surgei-i/, ^!. 70. t Erichsen's Science and Art of Siircjery, vol. i., p. Ill, 9th Edition. % Ibid, p. 112.