GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 58 obliquely over the forearm, may possibly crush the bone between itself and some hard substance against which the arm may be accidentally resting, without lesion of the interposed skin." Wounds, whether received directly or indirectly, may be complicated by the entrance of extraneous bodies, such as portions of clothing worn by the wounded, or various articles which may have been about his person. GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. How Gun-shot Wounds are Influenced.—Gun-shot wounds may be mfluenced by the shape and weight of the missile, its velocity, and the structure injured. For instance, a conical bullet will do more injury to a bone and soft parts than a round one of the same weight and fired at the same proportionate distance ; and a hollow conical bullet will cause more damage to the soft parts, periosteum, and bone than a solid one, both being fired under the same circumstances. The position a limb may be in at the time of being struck will influence the direction of the wound ; also a very slight obstacle, such as a button or a coin, and even a tendon in a state of tension has been known to turn the course of a i-ou?rd bullet. The modern bullet is elongated in form and small in diameter, '303 in., and is fired with a high charge ; it is made up of a casing or envelope containing a core of lead. Some recent experiments have shown that this kind of bullet is apt to break up when it meets with much resistence, such as a bone, for example, would offer. When this occurs, the resulting wound is most serious owing to the great destruction of soft ijarts beneath the skin, and even the bone itself may be pulverised. On the other hand, if these long narrow bullets when travelling at a high velocity strike a part of the body, they may just pierce the part and pass straight through a bone without causing any splintering, though if the force be at all spent they would then be apt to splinter it badly. M. Delorme, * Professor at the Val de Grace, carried out some experi- ments which yielded very much the same results as those above men- tioned. He wished to ascertain whether, as had been alleged by some, that small calibre bullets produced small and trifling wounds as compared with those of larger bullets, or, as stated by others, that they produced much more terrible wounds. He came to the conclusion that the size of the bullet makes but little difference, provided that the velocity with which it is driven is the same. The amount of destruction depends upon the velocity and not upon the size of the bullet. The size of the wound of entrance diminishes as the velocity falls, and increases as the velocity rises, as in short ranges. At 600 yards with the service charge the size of the wound of entrance is in diameter haK that of the bullet, the wound of exit is usually a little larger than the wound of entrance. At short ranges, such as 200 or 300 yards, he found what are termed explosive effects, the skin and muscular wounds were very large and the tissues quite disorganised. * "Communication al' Acaddmiede Mddicine," seancedu29thMai, ISSd.—Archives de Medicine, vol. xii.