92 WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. It having been pretty well ascertained that hajmorrhage is from the lung, and the symptoms being urgent, what measures should the surgeon adopt ? Many opinions have been expressed on this important and diffi- cult subject. Sir T. Longmore recommends that " haemorrhage from the lung itself must be treated on the general principles adopted in all such cases : the admmistration of cool acid drinks (iced, if ice can be obtained), perfect quiet, and the administration of opium or digitalis. _ " When blood has accumulated in any large quantity, and the patient IS so much oppressed as to threaten suffocation, all coverings must be removed, and the blood permitted to escape by wound; the wound should even be enlarged, if necessary, so as, with the assistance of proper posi- tion, to facilitate its escape. If the effused blood, from the situation of the wound, cannot be thus evacuated, and the patient be in danger of suffocation, then paracentesis must be resorted to." Dr. Macleod, who had considerable experience during the Crimean War, says that those cases did best in which early, active, and repeated bleedings were had recourse to. The Report of the Surgeon-General, American Army, on the treat- ment of chest wounds during the War of the Eebellion, is of the greatest importance; and from the vast number of cases, amounting to 20,264, the success of the treatment without venesection should be a great lesson to the army surgeon, and enable him to decide as to the proper course to be adopted in such cases. The following is an abstract of the measures used for the different descriptions of wounds :— In injuries of the thorax, whether attended or not by breach of surface, rest, a comfortable position, and a broad bandage round the chest. After stanching the bleeding, cleansing the parts, and removing foreign bodies, the further conduct of the surgeon must be governed by the ex- tent and_ nature of the lesion. All superficial wounds should be closed, with a view to early adhesion. In extensive incisions or lacerations use sutures, but in coughing or movements these are apt to be torn out. In penetrating wounds, some preferred to support the injured side with broad strips of plaster ; this was considered a secure dressing, and acceptable to the patient. The starch bandage was used, but its appli- cation was not found convenient. In profuse primary haemorrhage the bleeding was arrested, if possible, by ligature or compression, but when impossible to reach the source of the internal bleeding, it was considered best to close the wound and to promote occlusion of the bleeding vessel by general means. In the general treatment, the uncomplicated non-penetrating wounds required no exceptional measures beyond restriction of diet and the means necessary to insure rest. In penetrating wounds venesection appears to have been abandoned altogether ; hsemorrhage was treated by the application of cold, perfect rest, and the administration of opium. These measures, he says, seem to have generally proved adequate.