144 WOUNDS OF JOINTS. Professor Langenbeck* has pointed out a mode of determinint' the situation of the hip-joint "It is known that the position of the hip-ioint may be demonstrated, if we construct a triangle whose base intersects the trochanter major, while the femur and the anterior-superior spine of the Ilium form the points of an acute angle. If the entrance or exit of the shot IS within the compass of the triangle, or if the direction of the sbot canal falls withm this space, then the hip-joint will probably be implicated, ihe joint will be most directly involved when the bullet penetrates close below the anterior-inferior spinous process, or nearly If inch below the anterior-superior spinous process, and in the direction of the median line. The spongy part of the head of the femur will be injured in such a case, and, as a rule, smashed to atoms. If the entrance of the bullet be close below and external to the spine of the pubis, and if its exit be m the region behind the trochanter major of the same side, as a rule, the hip-jomt will be implicated with probable separation of the edge of the acetabulum. When the entrance and exit wounds are in front or behind the trochanter major, injury to the neck of the femur with openings of the hip-joint capsule may be assumed for certain." Conservative Treatment.—Langenbeck has also pointed out that some gun-shot wounds of the hip-joint, and even most severe cases, may be cured by conservative treatment; that the surgeon should decide after the first examination if conservative treatment be admissible, or if opera- tive interference must be resorted to ; hip-joint wounds should, therefore, be quickly recognised, or weighty difficulties offer themselves; and whatever plan of treatment is adopted, it should be carried out in a rational manner from the moment of injury. He gives 88 cases of gun- shot wounds of the hip-joint, treated conservatively during the Franco- German War of 1870-71, in which 25 were cured and 63 died, equal to 71*59 percentage of deaths, against 31 treated by resection and extraction of the head of the femur, in which 4 were cured, 26 died, and 1 was doubtful, equal to 73 "87 percentage of deaths. For conservative treatment he first selects all the lighter hip-joint injuries, in which it is impossible to determine the exact diagnosis directly after wounding. He lays great stress on the importance of con- servative treatment, even when the bladder and rectum are implicated, or complicated injuries of both organs exist. According to Langeflbeck'a way of thinking, conservative treatment should not be adopted, either for intra- or extra-capsular fractures of the neck of the femur, if the continuity of the bone is quite destroyed. As recovery from these wounds hardly ever occurs without suppuration in the joint, consolidation of the fracture must be looked upon as impos- sible, and necrosis of the head of the femur, at all events in intra-capsular gun-shot fracture, as unavoidable. We must, therefore, he says, consider that complete separation of the neck of the femur and splintering of the head and neck of that bone should be excluded from conservative treat- ment, and that resection or extraction of the head should be performed either primarily before the expiration of the first twenty-four hours, or • Surgical Observations on Gun-shot Wounds of the Hip-joint, by B. von Langenbeck. Translated by T. F. West, F.E.O.S.