EXCISION. 190 met by amputation above the knee, which would probably enable tlie patient to be Ccamed with due regard to his safety, whereas, after excision rest IS absolutely necessary, and if this could not be ensured the operation m all probability would only have a fatal result. Excision of the Ankle.-For removal of the entire joint Mr. Handcock devised the following method :-''The foot is first laid on its side, and an incision is made over the lower 3 inches of the posterior edge of the fibula. When it has reached tlie lower end of the malleobis, it forms a-i angle, and runs downwards and forwards to within about half an inch of the base of the outer metatarsal bone. The angular flap is reflected for- wards ; the fibula, about 2 inches above the malleolus, is sufficiently cleared of soft parts to allow cutting forceps to be placed over it • and the bone is then nipped in two and carefully dissected out, leaving the peroneus longus and brevis tendon uncut. The foot is now to be turned over. A similar incision is made on the inner side, the portion on the foot terminating over the projection of the inner cuneiform bone. The flap is to be turned back, and the sheaths of the flexor digitorum and posterior tibial tendons exposed, the knife being kept close to the bone avoiding the artery and nerve. The internal lateral ligament is then to be severed carefully close to the bone; and now the foot is twisted outwards, and the_ astragalus and tibia will present at the inner wound. A narrow-biaded saw, put in between the tendons into the inner wound, projects through the outer. The lower end of the tibia, then the top of astragalus, may be sawn oflt in a proper direction. The only vessel that may require tying is one of the lower branches 'of tlie peroneal artery. The wound may be closed vTith sutures, ex- cept that part opposite the breach of osseous matter, and the leg and foot placed on a splint with a footboard. Guthrie recommends the followimj method for excision of the ankle : — ■' Begin the incision behind the external malleolus, an^inch and a half aljove its lower extremity, and cany it down- wards and then forwards across the front of the ankle-joint (fig. 117), then under the internal malleolus and upwards, close behind the process, the extent of an inch and a half; this incision should merely divide the skin, and should not, on any account, wound the subjacent parts. Raise the flap thus made, and, placing the leg on its inside, detach and turn aside the peronei tendons from the groove behind the external inalleolus. Cut through the external lateral ligaments of the ankle- 117.