233 TETANUS. through the skin, or through the mucous membrane of the gastro- intestinal canal or respiratory passages. This bacillus is destroyed by a temperature of 60° C. and decomposition soon destroys it, but the sporea retain their vitality for years and are unaffected by ordinary dangers of climate or temperature. Treatment. —Charhon, being at its origin local, Bryant says, should be locally treated, and there can be no doubt that excision of the inflamed and vesiculated area is the best practice to adopt even in advanced cases. The bodies of animals which have died from splenic fever should be burnt and not buried, for Pasteur has shown that in cases where infected bodies have been buried, the pasturage over their graves has been directly infected, and thus caused fresh outbreaks of splenic fever owing to the earth worms bringing the bacilli to the surface, and spuming them in their casts over the fresh grass. M. Pas tear has also proved that sheep can be protected from the ravages of splenic fever (due to anthrax) by the vaccination of them with attenuated tox-albumins caused by the growth of these bacilli in suitable media. TETANUS. The infectious nature of tetanus was suspected for a long time, but it is only quite recently that the real microbic cause was discovered almost simultaneously by Nicolaier and Rosenbach. Nicolaier found a bacillus in earth which produced tetanus in animals bj' inoculation. Rosenbach found a similar bacillus in the jtos of a patient suffering from traumatic tetanus. The bacillus has been found in different kinds of soil and in street dust. In man it has been found in tetanic patients in the wound secretions, in the nerves leading from the seat of infection, and in the spinal cord. The question then arises, is the disease of which the bacillus is the specific cause due to the presence of the microbe, or of its products (ptomaines) in the organism? Brieger has demonstrated beyond all doubt that the ptomaines of the bacillus tetani cause tetanic convul- sions. * M. Verneuil traces the infection to horses. This view has received great credit in France. Horse dung seems especially open to suspicion, and thus it is found that ordinary dust, garden earth, and surface soil play an important part in the causation of tetanus, f There are two varieties of this disease—the idiopathic and traumatic ; the former seemingly connected with exposure to cold or damp, particu- larly if the body has been previously exposed to heat and perspiring ; and the latter to some kind of injury, in which exposure to cold may predispose to its attack, as occurred after the battles of Feroxepore and Chillianwallah, when the wounded were exposed during the cold nights, after very hard work during the day in a burning sun. It also occurred in Egypt under the same circumstances, as mentioned by Larrey; and * Surgical Bacteriology, Senn, p. 153. t Bril. Med. Join:, Oct. 25, 1890, p. 9-15.