169 AMPUTATION. pushed downwards through the ball of the thumb, transfixmg this and issuing where the incision commenced. It is next made to cut o^^twards keeping close to the metacarpal bone, which is readily twisted out, the remaining attachment being separated by a few touches of the knite In amputating the right thumb, it will be necessary for the surgeon, it He adopt the method just described, either to use his left hand or to cross his hands in an awkward manner. In order to avoid doing this he may reverse the steps of the operation with advantage ; hrst transfaxmg tne ball, and making the anterior flap, then^cutting over the dorsum, open- ing the joint, and turning out the bone." ^ ^^ X, The metacarpal bone of the thumb may be removed through an incision on its radial margin, where the surgeon may avoid cutting either the extensor or flexor tendons. The distal: extremity should hrst be detached from its connections, when the bone can be used as a lever whilst separating it from the other parts. The radial artery wi^ be endangered whilst cutting some of the fibres which bind the bone to the OS trapezium." , , , t Amputation of a whole Finger.—" If the third or fourth digits require amputation, it should be performed as follows :-An assistant holds the hand separating the fingers at each side of the one to be removed, ihe surgeon, holding the finger to be removed, enters the point of a long straight'bistoury exactly above the metacarpo-phalangeal joint and cuts from the prominence of the knuckle right into the angle of the web, then turnint^ inwards there, cuts obliquely into the palm to a point nearly opposite the one at which he set out. He then repeats this incision on the other side, makes tense the ligaments, first at cme side, and then at the other by drawing the finger to the opposite side, and cuts them. The tendons being cut, the finger is detached." Amputation through the Second Phalanx.—"If the distal phalanx be so much crushed that a flap cannot be obtained, two short semi-lunar lateral flaps may be dissected from the sides of the second phalanx, which may then be divided by the bone-pliers at the spot required." Amputation of a Distal Phalanx.—" There is no choice as to a flap, the nail preventing an anterior one; so a flap long enough to fold over must be cut from the pulp of the finger in either of two ways. 1. Hold- ing the fragment to be removed in the left hand, and bending the joint, the surgeon makes a transverse cut across the back of the finger, right into and through the joint, cutting a long palmar flap from within out- wards as he withdraws the knife. 2. Making the long flap by trans- fixion, it may be held back by an assistant, and the joint cut into." Amputation at the Hip-joint.—Numerous methods have been de- scribed for performing this operation. Sir William Fergusson recommends the foUow'mg proceedingThe table should be stoiit, of a convenient height, not so broad as to prevent the surgeon and assistants being in close contact with the patient, and a folded blanket, with a couple of pillows, should be on its upper surface. The patient's breech should be brought close to the margin of the table, and the sound limb should be fastened to one of its legs. An assistant should stand immediately behind the surgeon, whose chief duty will be