WOUNDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. 137 save the limb. Splinters should be removed, and irregularities sawn off, if necessary, Guthrie recommends that the leg should be placed in the straight position on the heel as a general rule, admitting a few exceptions. Sir T. Longmore writes—"Gun-shot fractures of the leg, when the comminution is not very extensive, when neither the knee nor the ankle- joint is opened by fissure, and the soft parts are not widely damaged, admit of conservative treatment. But when the fragments at the site of impact are dispersed and driven deeply into the surrounding tissue, when the remaining portions of the shaft are much splintered, when one of the neighbouring joints is penetrated, and especially when both bones of the leg are involved in the injuries, amputation under ordinary cir- cumstances in field practice is the only course to pursue." But here, too, the question of movement must be considered. If there is a daily march to be encountered, a gun-shot injury of the leg, that would probably do well with rest and good antiseptic treatment, may, if continually moved, entail a fatal result: whereas an amx^utation would have enabled the sufferer to have reached his home alive though mutilated. Numerous splints of different designs and composition have been invented for fractures of the leg, but all tending to the one object, that of fixture. In the field, when the sufferer may have to be moved, the plaster of Paris bandage will be found most convenient. In the sub- sequent treatment, when placed in a fixed hospital, he will derive great comfort from a common box splint with sides so arranged with hinges that they can be let down to examine the wound without disturbing the limb. If the flesh wound is not extensive, the limb may be put up with the ordinary side splints with pads and the whole placed in a " Salter's sling " apparatus. The limb may also be placed on the double-inclined plane of M'Intyre, which appliance answers on service for fractures of the thigh as well, and with a firm bed gives great ease and comfort to the sufferer. Mr. Hamilton* writes—"When both bones are broken completely asunder by a rifle-ball or other large shot, the surgeon will not often find it prudent to attempt to save the limb. In general, the com- minution is even greater than in fractures of the femur. If an attempt is made to save the limb, loose floating fragments must be removed and the limb placed in an easy position, being sustained by moderate lateral pressure. Neither extension nor counter-extension can generally be made to any purpose." ''It is impossible to lay down any absolute rules as to the position which the limb should occupy; sometimes the fragments will be found most at rest when the leg is made straight upon the thigh; but in the large majority of cases the position of moderate flexion will be required, the Hmb either resting upon its side, as recommended by Pott, or upon its posterior surface, as is most generally practised. Whatever form of apparatus may be used, the foot Avill require always the support of a * Treatise on Military Surgery, p. 414,