1 THE SUEG-EON'S POCKET-BOOK. INTRODUCTOEY GENERAL REMARKS. The duties of the Army Surgeon, at all times responsible, are more especially so in time of war, and much of the success of armies is de- pendent upon the manner in which these duties are executed. The General Officer Commanding an army in the field, owing to the pressing necessities of supreme military command, is obliged to entrust the sanitary duties to an expert officer, who should be a medical officer of high position occupying a definite recognised place upon his staff. This medical officer ought, therefore, to exercise considerable fore- thought in making suitable rules for the preservation of health, and in arranging a proper organisation for the care and treatment of the sick and wounded. It is not always possible that General Officers Command- ing troops in the field can comply with the strict rules of hygiene; the responsible or principal medical officer should, therefore, recognise such conditions and offer such suggestions only as are necessary, practicable, and really likely to conduce to the health and comfort of tlfiose under his medical charge. It is on these occasions when difficulties have to be overcome that the resources of the Army Surgeon are severely tested, and his genius and training prominently brought out. To facilitate such duties and to enable the Surgeon General of an army to relieve the General Officer Commanding of any of his responsi- bilities, it is most necessary that he should be one of the general staff, as IS the case with the Senior Officer of Royal Engineers, in order that he may be in direct communication with the General, and so learn what are likely to be the probable movements of the troops, and thus get some idea of the strategy intended. He will then be able to sketch out suit- able plans for the field ambulance ; in some cases, possibly, preventing it from blocking up and obstructing important roads, and, in others, by arranging for an early and rapid transfer of wounded men to the base, thus freemg the army from such encumbrances, and so enabling the General to make a forward movement earlier than he could otherwise have done. 10 (juote the language of a distinguished officer *—" The General ♦Camperdown Commission Question, 1558-1890.