TUBERCULOSIS. 237 experimented upon). Koch thus describes the symptoms felt by himself after the injection of 0'25 cubic centimetre ; pains in the limbs, fa,tigue, inclination to cough, difficulty of breathing, all of which speedily in- creased ; in the fifth hour he was seized with a violent fit of shivering which lasted nearly an hour, at the same time there was sickness, vomiting, and the temperature of the body rose ; after twelve hours all these symjjtoms gradually grew less, the temperature fell, and by next day was again normal. The heaviness in the limbs and the feeling of langour lasted a few days longer, and the spot where the injection had been made continued red and painful for the same length of time. A healthy human being reacts either not at all or very slightly under the injection of 0 01 cubic centimetre. But it is quite different when the patient is tuberculous, as this same dose will be followed by a strong general as well as local reaction. The local reaction can best be observed in those patients whose tuber- culous affections are visible; for instance in cases of lupus, a txiberculous affection of the skin. Here, a few hours after the injection has been made under the skin at some distant part (generally between the shoulder-blades), the lupus spots begin to swell and grow red, shivering follows; and while the fever lasts, the swelling and redness continue to increase, so that the lupus tissue becomes necrotic and of a reddish-brown colour in places. After the fever has subsided, the swelling of the lupus spots gradually decreases, and after two or three daj's they have entirely disappeared. The seat of the lupus is then covered with a crust of oozing serum which dries into a scab; this scab ultimately falls off, leaving a smooth red scar. Several injections are required to remove the lupus tissue completely. The local reactions in tuberculosis of the glands, bones, and joints are less striking, but are attended by swelling, increase of pain, and redness of the superficial parts. The reaction in the internal organs, especially in the lungs, cannot be observed, but patients with decided tuberculosis of the lungs are far more susceptible to the remedy than those suffering from surgical tubercular affections. The remedy does not kill the tubercular bacilli, but the tuberculous tissue. In some parts there is an instant destruction c/f the diseased tissue after one injection, so that it falls off like a dead mass. In other ]iai-ts there seems to ensue a disappearance or sort of melting away of the tissues, which requires repeated injections of the remedy for the com- pletion of the cure. It is only capable of inflaming living tuberculous tissue ; it produces no effect whatever on dead tissue'such as, for instance, necrotic cheesy masses, necrotic bones, all of which will need to be removed by surgical operation, to effect which every effort must be made. Phthisical patients with large cavities, who almost always suffer from other complications (arising, for instance, from the penetration of other pus-forming micro-organisms into the cavities, &c.), w^ill probably, Koch thinks, only in exceptional cases derive any lasting benefit from the use of this remedy, and he raises the question whether it might not be