WOUISTDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. Inoved, there will be a space between the broken ends; if, therefore, strong extension is made, the ends of the bone will be di'awn asunder, and continued irritation of the muscles and surrounding tissues vnR be kept up. To prevent shortening is almost an impossibility; it will, therefore, be best to allow the ends of the bone to approximate, which the muscles will do of themselves, and all that can be done is to keep the limb straight if possible. The less interference the better. Stromeyer observes—"Do not be too anxious to remove all the frag- ments of fractured and displaced bones. Do not be too eager to maintain extension of the fractured limb, and abstain from frequently lifting the fractured limb for the purpose of cleanliness." Contrivances for the Treatment of Shot Fractures of the Femur and Bones of the Leg and Foot—(1) The Femut.—While simple frac- tures of the shaft may be put up in the semi-flexed position of Pott, the straight one of Desault and Liston, or on the double-inclined plane, or by any of the numerous modifications of either, it is otherwise with the coinpound fractures resulting from gun-shot. Hence numerous contri- vances and apparatus have been invented for the more convenient treat- ment of shot fractures of the thigh-bone ; in fact, any one who has ever had to treat such an injury on service can bear testimony to the difficul- ties and dangers to be encountered. Mr. Hamilton does not recommend '' the long straight splint, with the usual means of extension and counter-extension, in any of its various forms unless in rare cases. A perineal band can rarely be borne in gun- shot fractures of the thigh, and a long broad side-splint is always very much in the way of dressings." The method he recommends is, ''laying the limb upon the mattress, or some sufficiently firm and even support, on the same or nearly the same plane with the body, making the ex- tension by a weight attached to a cord drawn over a pulley, while the counter-extension is made with the weight of the body by elevating the foot of the bed. This is the plan, more or less modified, which has been adopted in a large proiiortion of the cases which we have seen imder treatment; and, we think, with the best results. " With the straight position, the limb may rest directly upon the bed, but for the purpose of dressing the wounds, the limb may be moderately lifted or suspended by a frame and cotton bands. " When extension is applied it should be moderate and only sufficient to steady the limb, or to prevent the ends of the broken bones from pressing into the flesh. For this purpose we apply a broad band of adhesive plaster along each side of the leg from the knee downwards, and secure these in place with a roller, covering certain portions of the limb with cotton wool before applying the roller to prevent excoriation. The end of the adhesive plaster should be laid over a small block below the sole of the foot, which block must be of sufficient width to protect the malleoli from the pressure of the bands. A .small rope knotted at one end is then to be run through a hole in the centre of the block and carried over a pulley at the foot of the bed. The pulley must be so high that the extension shall lift the heel a very little from the bed."