ANAESTHESIA. 155 never be tempted to allow his interest in the surgical proceedings that may be going on to blunt his observation, or cause him to relax his vigilauce. , , • Ether is now much used, and has obtained the credit of being much safer than chloroform. It has, however, two great disadvantages, which are, that it requires a large quantity to produce anassthesia, also a bulky instrument for its administration, both of some consequence on active service. Mr. T. Pridgin Teale writes so appositely on the subject as to render it expedient to give his remarks in full. He says,* " Ormsby, of Dublin, invented the inhaler in which the exhaled warm air, charged as it is with ether, was received into an india-rubber bag and breathed over and over again, thus economising the heat of about 90 per cent, of the exhalations and reducing the waste of ether. This idea was taken up by Clover and developed into the present form of inhaler, which, as far as I know, is unapproached by any method of giving ether that has come into use. " To administer ether badly is to bring it down nearly to a level with chloroform as to safety, and to render it inferior to chloroform as to comfort to the patient. A bad etherist will cause fear, coughing, dis- tressing sense of suffocation, excitement, struggling, blueness of lips, mucous rattling in the trachea and bronchi. He will take many minutes, five to ten, in getting his patient under the anfesthetic, will use twice or thrice as much ether as is needful, will keep his patient when unconscious overcharged with ether, in a state of profound stertor, and will now and then set up a dangerous bronchitis. A good etherist will win the con- fidence of his patient, even of the most timid, by judicious encouragement, and by first applying the mouthpiece alone. As confidence becomes established he adds the reservoir and then the india-rubber bag, slowly turning on the ether as tolerance of the vapour becomes established, and unconsciousness begins to steal on. Then he more rapidly increases the proportion of ether, and the patient quicklyfalls into complete antesthesia. Such an administrator will, in nine cases out of ten, have his patient ready for operation in two or three minutes, and not infrequently in about a minute and a half, without a struggle, without coughing, often without even a transient sense of suffocation, and with the expenditure of about half an ounce of ether, and will but need about one ounce of ether for each quarter of an hour that the anesthesia is kept up. In such a case we need fear no danger at the time, nor subsequent bronchitis. " The advantages to the operator of using ether instead of chloroform are very great. In the first place, his anxiety is less, his fear of a fatal issue is less, and when obliged to trust to an inexperienced administrator, as he must do at times in sudden emergencies, he can more efficiently keep an eye on the patient's condition, and superintend the administrator, than when chloroform is used. "In the second place, there is a saving of time, a patient being brought under the influence of ether in two or three minutes, whereas chloroform, in my experience, needs eight or ten. * " Address in Surgery," by T. Pridgin Teale, F.E.C.S., F.E.S., Leeds, 1S89. BHl Med. Journ., Aug. 17, 1889.