183 EXCISION. them. Any transverse cut is therefore to be greatly deprecated In carrvin- the incision in this direction, Enchsen recommends that the edo7of the knife should always be kept against the bones, and their sfeTosities closely foUowed, so that the ulnar.nerve, ^^mg diSB^^^^^^^^ from behind the inner condyle, may escape injury If the incision be properly planned, and the knife kept in contact with the bone, the nerve ou-ht not to be exposed during the operation, more particularly as it is iSually imbedded in a quantity of plastic tissue. When the posterior Dart of the joint has been laid bare in this way, the kmfe should be carried round the tip of the olecranon, and the process removed with cutting pliers. By forcibly bending the joint pushing the forearm upwai°ds, and lightly touching the ligaments with the point of the kmte, the interior of the articulation will be fully exposed.^ By means of a small narrow saw, the articular end of the humerus is separated from the rest of the bone ; the upper end of the ulna and the head ot the radius may either be removed in the same way or by cutting pliers. Fig. 109. After the operation, the limb should be laid upon pillows nearly in the extended positicm ; or Esmarch's spbut may be applied (fig. 109). This splint, which Dr. Stromeyer designed for the more convenient treatment of excision or resection of the elbow-joint was improved upon hy Professor Esmarch ; by means of it the arm can be raised up, without the joint being disturbed. It is made from two of Stromeyer's arm splints, of which the under is uncushioned, but the upper one stuffed with wadding and covered with oilcloth, and at the region of the elbow a wedge-shaped piece is sawn out (fig. 109). The upper arm-piece of this splint is retained in position with the forearm piece by means of two hoops of strong wire. The arm rests on this splint, which can be raised by means of the wire, while the bandages and dressings are quickly removed from the lower splint, and which, after it has been cleaned and tlie wound dressed, can be replaced.