62 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. N^laton's Probe.—M. Ndlaton designed a probe for ascertaining the nature of the foreign body impacted in the bone of one of General Garibaldi's ankles. It consists of a slender rod of metal 5 or 6 inches in length, terminated at one end by a small knob of white, unglazed biscuit china. The other end of the probe is furnished with a small handle, grooved ridge-and-furrow fashion, in order that the finger and thumb may the more easily roll it between them, while the porcelain knob is being pressed at the bottom of the wound against the suspected foreign body (fig. 66). If it be a leaden bullet against which the porcelain is rubbed, a very distinct mark of lead is impressed on the latter, which is not easily obliterated. This probe of M. Ndaton's may possibly deceive the surgeon, if he supposes, because no dark mark has been produced on the biscuit china, that consequently there is no bullet, as in the event of there being anything, such as pieces of cloth, paper, linen, or membrane, between it and the probe, there will be no leaden mark. Lecomte's Probe.—Dr. Lecomte has designed an instrument (fig. 67) with a view to obviate the difficulties experienced with Nelaton's probe, which not only indicates the presence of lead, but by bringing away a small portion of anything capable of being cut into, declares what it is. He has given it the name of the "Probe Nippers" ("Stylet Pince"). It consists of two fine steel blades enclosed in a canula; each blade ter- minates in a little cup, and when both are brought together they form a small knob. These blades are in connection with a rod and handle worked by a screw. When the knob of the probe is brought into contact with the extraneous substance, it is caused to open, and then, by pressure against it and causing the little blades to close, a small portion is carried away. Several instruments have been designed for detecting lead and other metallic substances by means of electricity. Tailor's Explorer.—Mr. Tailor's electric explorer consists of two in- sulated needles. They are connected by wires with a small galvanic battery and mariner's compass. When the points of the needles touch the metallic substance the needle of the compass is deflected. De Wilde's Explorer.—Mr. De Wilde has adapted a telegraph bell to the electric apparatus, which denotes the presence of metal by the sound- ing of the bell. Liebreicb's Explorer.—Liebreich has designed an instrument some- what similar to Tailor's, except that a galvanometer is substituted for the mariner's compass, the needle of which is deflected on the electric circle being completed. Sir T. Longmore exhibits to his class (R. V. Hospital, Netley) an easily made electric instrument (fig. 68), so portable that it can be carried about the person of the surgeon. He describes it as follows:—The magnet of an ordinary pocket compass, which has had some turns of wire covered with thread wound round it as an induction coil, is em- ployed for the electric indicator, while a piece of zinc sheeting bent round a small plate of copper, but separated from it by flannel padding saturated with the usual diluted acids, forms the voltaic pile. The exploring nstrument is formed by two insulated wires bound together,