X CONl'ENTS. Wounds of the Joints. Treatment-Question of Excision—Wounds of Shoulder-Joint—Partial Excision of the Head of the Humerus—General Conclusions regarding Treatment—Wounds of the Elbow-Joint—Punctured and Incised Wounds—Excision of the Elbow- Joint—Period of Selection for Excision—Amount of Bone to be removed in Eesection—Wounds of the Wrist-Joint—Resection as a Secondary Operation— The Expectant Treatment—Gun-shot Wounds of the Hip-Joint—Langenbeck on the Situation of Hip-Joint—Conservative Treatment—Cases in which it is not Applicable—Excision of the Hip-Joint for Gun-shot Wounds—Prmart/, Intermediate, and Secondary Excision—Amputation at the Hip-Joint—Symptoms of Gun-shot Fractures of the Hip-Joint—Gun-shot Wounds of the Trochanter- Nelaton's Line—Bryant's Ilio-Femoral Triangle—Giraud-Teulon's Triangle- Wounds of the Kuee-Joint, Reyher's and Bergmann's Experiences—Question of its Excision-Incised Wounds; of the Knee-Joint —Wounds of the Patella- Wounds of the Ankle-Joint—Question of its Resection, . . . 138-152 Wounds of Nerves and Tendons. Modes of Injury—Treatment—Local Applications—Neuritis—Division of Tendons- Treatment, 152-153 An.^sthesia. Chloroform — Conclusions from Hyderabad Commission Experiments — Views against — Ether — Pridgin Teale's Method of Administering — Freezing — Cocaine, .......... 153-156 AirPUTATION. Proper Period for Performing Amputation—Opinions of Competent Authorities- Cases Demanding Amputation—Different Methods Considered—Lister's Rules— Heather Bigg s Suggestions—Double Amputation—After-Treatment of Stumps —Flies—Maggots in Stumps—Esmarch's Bloodless Operation modified by Lister—Prevention of Hsemorrhage after the Bloodless Method—Approved Methods of Amputating-Amputation at the Shoulder-Joint-At the Shoulder- Joint by TiansQxion—Amputation of the Arm (Circular)-Flap Method— Through the Elbow-Joint—Flap Method—Amputation of the Fore-arm—At the Wrist—Amputation of one or more Metacarpal Bones—Of Index or Little Finger—Of the Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb—Amputation of a Whole Finger—Through Second Phalanx—Of a Distal Phalanx—At the Hip-Joint —Methods of different Surgeons—Fergusson's, Furneaux Jordan's (modified by Lister)—Davy's Lever for Compressing Aorta—Through the Tliigh— Antero-posterior Flap Operation—Through the Knee-Joint—(Garden's at the Condyles of the Femur—Through the Leg, Double Skin Flap Upper Fourth- Through the Calf—Syme's Operation at the Ankle-Joint (Disarticulation)— Parry's Modification of Syme's Method—Chopart's Operation through;the Tarsus —Hey's Amputation of Metatarsal Bones—Removal of Metatarsal Bones of Great Toe; of Little Toe; of Distal Phalanx of Great Toe; of Lesser Toe—Teale's Amputation—Pirogoff's Sub-periosteal Amputation, . . . 156-180 Excision of Joints. Modern 'Views—Excision of Head of Humerus—Lai'rey's, Hamilton's, Guthrie's, and Fergusson's Methods—Excision of Clavicle; of Scapula (Syme's Method)—Elbow- Joint Excision—Position of Limb after Excision—Contrivances for placing the Elbow—Excision of the Wrist—Lister's Method—Special Splints to be used in the After-Treatment of his Excision—Excision of the Carpal Ends of the Bones of the Fore-arm—Excision of the Hip-Joint—Different Methods—Special Splints for After-Treatment—Surgeon-Major Porter's Stretcher and Bed—Excision of Knee-Joint—Take advantage of any existing 'Wound—Excision of the Ankle- Joint—Mr. Handcock's Method—Mr. Guthrie's Method—Professor Esmarch's Splints for After-Treatment—Excision of Os Calcis—Excision of the Astragalus —Tarsal Bones and Shafts of Long Bones—Subperiosteal Operation, . 181-193 Enucleation of the Eye, ........ 193