198 RMMOmUAGE. for it, and instancea have been known where main trunks of arteries IZl^::^, V'^i^-/^ *i! hemorrhage has been from some smaU vesse unconnected with it Stromeyer is of opinion that the plan of tying a ;?f^^^ f}''f "'""^^^ ^^^^y- '^^^'^ la'-fe-e vein accompanying the aitery has often been torn or bruised by the same bullet. After tyin- the artery at the spot, the vein often becomes totally impervious, and the haemorrhage recurs, or the limb becomes gangrenous. It may be proper, m some cases, to gain time by putting a ligature above the wounded spot; before new hsmorrhage occurs, the vein may have under- gone a tavourable change. In other cases it is better to amputate. iiie external wound should be taken as the guide for the incision, and it IS recommended that "in cutting down on a ivounded artery, a Urae probe should be passed to the bottom of the wound, and taking this as a centre, a free mcision should be made in such a direction as may best lay open the cavity with the least injury to the muscles and soft parts. Atter turning out any coagula contained in the wound, and clearing it out as well as possible, the injured vessel must be sought for." Great care should be observed in ligaturing the vessel in consequence of the altered condition of the structures, from inflammation or infiltration. 1 he operation may be greatly facilitated by the application of Esmarch's bandage, bhould the wound in the vessel not be apparent, it is only necessary to loosen the bandage, when the jet of blood will declare its position. The artery, when found, should be tied or twisted both above and below the wound in it. The necessity for tying the lower end is the greater, because it is the more frequent source of secondary hsemor- rliage. When the lower end of the vessel cannot be found, a piece of com- pressed sponge left in the wound sometimes prevents subsequent hemorrhage. It is not advisable to apply a single ligature immediately below the origin of a large branch. Intermediary or Reactionary Hsemorrhage may occur some hours after the receipt of a wound, or as soon as the patient becomes warm, and reaction is completely established. If position, cold, and the compression of a bandage does not check it, the wound must be opened out and the bleeding vessel sought for and tied. Secondary Haemorrhage is common in gun-shot wounds, due to sloughing of the parts injured, or the re-opening of a wound in which a vessel is temporarily closed. It may occur from the fifth to the twenty- fifth day after the infliction of an injury. It may be produced by local or constitutional causes, the former being any movement which may disturb the wound or increase the rapidity of the circulation; as, for instance, (a) by transporting wounded men too soon, which may be unavoidable ; {(j) by the imperfect application of a ligature; (c) by sloughing or .ulceration of a large vessel; {d) by pro- jecting spicula of bone injuring a vessel; (e) by a peculiar hcemorrhagic diathesis natural to some persons, but which on service in the field generally presents itself when the men are scorbutic and worn out by fatigue and privation. The most common cause probably is unhealthy