WOUJSDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 105 in the abdominal cavity, emphysema around the wound, a larger escape of blood than the injury to the parietes will account for, are among the symptoms which help to indicate intestinal injury. The occurrence of bloody stools is usually a late symptom." Shock, as mentioned above, accompanies all penetrating gun-shot wounds. When it becomes more and more severe with increasing exhaustion, jactitation, feeble pulse, and respiration, we may conclude internal hemorrhage is taking place, and we usually find the cavity filled with blood out of all proportion to the size of the vessels injured. Even in the case of small vessels there is a remarkable persistence in the flow of blood following their severance due to the laxity of the tissues, the absence of pressure, and the lack of the Ijeculiar influence of the atmosphere.—Parkes. Wounds of the Liver may consist of shght groovings or divisions of the peritoneal investments only ; penetrations with a single outlet; long perforations ; extended lacei'ations ; wounds complicated by the presence of splinters from ribs, of fragments of clothing, of balls, and other foreign bodies. If patients escape the early danger of haemorrhage they are liable to die of septic peritonitis. At the same time, serious injuries of the liver are not necessarily fatal. When a portion of the lacerated liver-substance protrudes at the external wound, it may be safely re- moved by ligature.* Wounds of the Kidney are frequently associated with wounds of the liver, spleen, diaphragm, stomach, intestines, or spine. Punctured and incised wounds are uncommon, though shot wounds are not very infre- quent. These wounds are very dangerous, but not necessarily mortal, imless the peritoneum is also wounded, and urine escapes into the cavity of the belly, when fatal peritonitis is almost inevitable. When the kidney has become protruded it may be removed, as evidenced by a case reported by Surgeon-Major M. Marvand of an Algerian regi- ment, in which an Algerian woman, who had been severely wounded in the lumbar region, where the kidney was drawn out of the wound, between the lips of which it remained strangulated. A silk ligature was passed around the pedicle of the extruded organ, and at the end of some weeks the kidney was separated. After two months she was dis- charged well. JSephrectomy has now been performed in many cases with successful results. Parkes remarks : Bleeding from slight lacerations of the spleen, kidney, or hver can be controlled by actual cautery lightly applied after ab- dominal section. Slight lacerations only at some point on the surface were closed by bringing together the peritoneal surfaces of the organ over the wound by means of the continued suture, but severe perforating and lacerated bullet wounds of the kidney and spleen could not be treated successfully in any other way than by an absolute removal of the injured organ. Wounds of the Stomach may be recognised by the position of the wound, its depth and direction, the escape of food or drink, vomiting of blood, pain, faintness, thirst, singultus, tympanitis, pallor, cold ex- tremities. The extravasation of the contents of the stomach is probably * The Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, Part II., vol. ii., p. 147.