8i INJURIES OF THE BEAD. in consequence of the dura-mater having been torn, or by ulceration taking place after removal of a portion of the skuU. If the dura-mater remains whole, and the wound in the cranium is small, the hernia will not take place, or if a large portion of the cranium has been removed, there will be no protrusion. Mr. Guthrie is of opinion that it is more likely to take place with a small opening than a large one. At first the protrusion may only consist of coagulated blood, appearing within one or two days after the injury, and this is generally a fatal symptom. It may occur at a later period, when it will consist of brain substance and may attain the size of a small orange. It is a very dangerous complication, terminating usually in encephalitis, followed by delirium and coma consequent on inflammatory effusion within the skull. Treatment.— The protrusion should not be shaved of, but it shoiild be dusted with tannic acid, oxide of zinc, or powdered salicylic acid, when smaU pressure should be applied, but if it should become very large, this could not be carried out. In any case, the less interference the better. Application of Trephine as recommended by Sir W. Fergusson.— " The scalp must be sufficiently opened by a an or any other incision that may be most convenient; next a perforator should be applied to malce a hole in the external table, into which the central pm of the trephine should be placed, and then by rotary motion the teeth should be carried into the bone. The external table and the diploe may be cut with bold and free movements, but caution is required when the mner plate is encountered, as also in those parts where there is no diploe and where the thickness is irregular and uncertain: the centre pm should now be drawn above the level of the serrated edge of the saw, and again by more cautious movements, the vitreous table must be divided. When the incision is supposed to be nearly completed, the instrument must be removed ; an elevator should then be introduced, so as to raise the loosened portion, and the rest of the operation may be conducted according to circumstances. When a foreign substance, blood, or matter, is sought for under the cranium, a circidar piece of bone is thus removed; but in the case of depressed fracture, only a little more tnan a semicircular portion requires to be cut; and this, be it observed by the young student, is taken from the sound portion of the bone, not that winch is depressed ; for the sole object in applying the instrument m a case of this kind is to permit the introduction of a lever to elevate the portion in fault. 6