WOUNDS OF JOINTS. 149 * Science and Art 0/Surgery, Eru lnen, 8th Edition. of which are equal to these three measurements ; tind the middle point of the line corresponding to the measurement between the tuberosity and the spine, and from that draw a line to the apex of the triangle. This line corresponds to the distance of the inner condyle from the centre of the acetabulum, and must be contrasted with a similar line obtained by measurements of the sound side. "* Wounds of the Knee-Joint. Wounds of the knee-joint are most serious. The admission of air containing germs into a large sac lined by synovial membrane, producing septic iniiammatory acticm with in all probabihty diarrhoea and hectic from septic blood-poisoning, render these injuries beyond hope of recovery without surgical interference, unless they are treated antiseptically from the first. The treatment generally hitherto admitted as being the best is that of amputation, but there are surgeons who advocate resection, or even attempts at conservation. Mr. Hennen, after his great experience, says—" In my own practice I have met with only two cases where the limb was saved after serious injury to the knee joint, and in one of them only was the perfect use of it restored." Mr. Guthrie considers that " wounds of the knee-joint from musket- balls, with fracture of the bones composing it, require immediate am- putation." Dr. Macleod, who appears to have taken a special interest in this class of wounds, visited every one he could hear of in camp while in the Crimea, and avers that he never met with one instance of recovery in which the joint was distinctly opened and the bones much injured by the ball, unless the limb was removed. Dr. Stromeyer recommends primary amputation for gun-shot injuries of the knee-joint. He is not in favour of resection, and is thus opposed to Professor Langenbeck, whose system is non-interference. Langenbeck very strongly advocates conservative treatment. Im- mediate amputation or i-esection he reserves for cases where fragments of bone are actually severed, or where shattering of the bone ends is com- plicated with considerable tearing and loss of soft parts. He uses plaster of Paris bandages, ice, and antiseptics. In 18(30, out of 18 cases, 11 were cured by conservative treatment. Dr. Carl Keyher in the last ivusso-Turkish War had a remarkable success, he divides his cases into "primary antiseptic," that is, cases which were treated aseptically from the first, and which had not been fingered or probed in any way ; "secondary antiseptic," or, cases where the wound had been examined or treated in some way opposed to aseptic principles; and "non-antiseptic" cases. He had 4(3 cases of gun-shot injury to the knee-joint, 18 were primary antiseptic cases, of which 3 died, and 15 recovered with movable knee-joints—percentage of mortality 1(3'6. Forty were secondary antiseptic, 34 died, 1 recovered -percentage