ENUCLEATION OF THE EYE. 193 and into the horizontal one. The tendon is then detached from its inser- tion, and the two lateral flaps are dissected up, the knife being kept close to the bones, from which the soft parts are well cleared. The blade is then carried over the upper and posterior part of the os calcis, the articu- lation is opened, the interosseous ligaments are divided, and then, by a few touches with the point, the bone is detached from its connection with the cuboid. This bone, together with the astragalus, must then be examined; and if any disease be met with, the gouge should be applied." Excision of the Astragalus.—"A curved incision should be made from one malleolus to the other, something like that made at the beginning of Syme's amputation. The ankle-joint is then to be laid freely open, and the whole upper part of the diseased bone exposed. Then the ligaments connecting it to the scaphoid are to be severed, and the bone is to be levered up, when the interosseous ligament connecting it with the os calcisjwill, if entire, be felt, and can be readily divided. AU that is then necessary to complete the operation is to clean the back part of the bone, which should be done with care, in order to avoid injury to the tendons and vessels which lie near it. "The bone might also, no doubt, be removed by two lateral incisions similar to those used in excision of the ankle. This would avoid the injury to the tendons and vessels incidental to the above method; but would be more laborious." Excision of other Tarsal Bones.—" No formal directions are required for excising the other tarsal hones. The soft parts are to be thrown aside by crucial incisions, radiating from the sinuses which lead to the diseased bone, and the latter removed, care being taken, in all cases where it is possible, to excise the whole bone with the articulating surface." Excision of the Shafts of Long Bones.—This operation may be partial, or it may be necessary to remove the whole bone. As far as practicable, the subperiosteal operation should be performed. An incision sufficiently long to admit of the working of the chain-saw should be made along the superficial aspect of the bone, when the perios- teum must be detached with the handle of the scalpel, raspatory, or chisel recommended by M. OUier, or other instruments suited for that purpose. A chain-saw may then be passed under the bone, the shaft divided, and the separated portion, being seized with a strong forceps, carefully detached. The Subperiosteal Operation for Excisions and Resections has been recommended by many in consequence of the bone being reproduced to some extent, and tendons and muscles detached entire from the bone. It, however, has its disadvantage in being tedious ; the periosteum, too, is liable to slough. It is doubtful if the reproduction of bone is a benefit, at least in resection of the joints, and it is frequently difficult to remove the diseased bone without detaching the periosteum from the healthy. ENUCLEATION OF THE EYE. Enucleation of the Eye.—The patient is to be fully anaesthetised. The operator to stand behind the patient's head. The instruments required 13