89 WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. and milk; and as inflammatory symptoms subsided, wine, porter, and nutritious diet were allowed. The wounds healed completely, but the voice was much impaired, being little more than a whisper. WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. Classification.—Wounds of the chest are divided into penetrating and non-penetrating. The non-penetrating may be subdivided into wounds of skin, fascia, and other soft coverings of the walls of the thorax, fracture of the clavicle, scapula, sternum, vertebrae, ribs, injury of bones or cartilages, and super- ficial vessels. The penetrating may be subdivided into those connected with wounds of pleura, lungs, heart, great vessels, nerves, oesophagus, and thoracic duct. Non-penetrating wounds may be accompanied by lesions of the internal viscera from violence, causing contusion or rupture of viscera or an im- portant blood-vessel, and, subsequently, by inflammation of the pleura or lungs, giving rise to plei;ritis or pneumonia, or both. Non-penetrating wounds of the soft parts alone differ but little from wounds elsewhere, except that they are much slower in healing, due in all_ probability to the ribs never being at rest, and consequently the lips of incised wounds cannot be kept in exact apposition. In dressing these wounds, it is recommended to apply strips of adhesive plaster in such a manner that the ribs may be supported and the wounds relieved from strain ; this is best accomplished by placing broad strips of plaster at right angles to the ribs, and a bandage round the chest with narrow strips of bandage over the shoulders, stitched to that on the chest, with a view to keeping it in position. Simple fractures of the several bones in connection with the chest, such as the clavicle, scapula, ribs, and sternum, must be treated in accordance with the special rules laid down for these injuries. In compound fractures of these bones from gun-shot, where the wounds do_ not penetrate, much trouble and anxiety may arise from depressed spicula causing inflammatory symptoms and requiring elevation or removal, or giving rise to abscesses, or diseased bone. Wounds of the external arteries of the chest, producing profuse haemorrhage, should he secured at both ends, as, from the nature of the surrounding tissues, blood is apt to be extravasated or aneurisms formed. All external wounds, at first apjiarently trivial, should be most care- fully watched for several days, as inflammatory symptoms of the lungs or pleura may arise, and should be checked with the least possible delay. Penetrativrj wounds may he complicated, in the first instance, with emphysema, pneumo-thorax, hernia of the lung, htemo-thorax, and presence of foreign bodies, and subsequently by hydro-thorax, empyema, fistulous openings, and contractions of the chest. ^ In wounds of the heart and larger vessels, the result is generally immediately fatal; at the same time instances have occurred where a pufferer with a wound of the heart has lived for several days.