20 SERVICE IN THE FIELD. fcl" }^ .appears to be admirably adapted for the nnmosp SERVICE IN THE FIELD. pe'rX1?rtoo''Zw^'°''' '""'Seon should not be ham- perea with too many things about his own person. Porter says-What I have generally found most convenient are as follows :-Sdcet-caS of instruments well furnished with silk, needles, &c., carried in the Pouch fsiTuiLlv o^ h"? 'r^^'^if' baversack'or small black^learheTCj asmausupply of Imt, two or three bandages, adhesive Dlaster tape plaister_ recommended), tourniquet, f flask of wine or LLndy a hypodermic injection syringe, with a small phial coStaSnc. f^r 3 drachms of so ution of morphia.* A clasp knife will be found most useful for cutting off clothes and shaping splints, &c. If mounted the surgeon can, of course, carry many necessaries in his hoTster wallets rotdedmamt " " rehefTo aty tionsf-^^ assistance in the field J is thus provided by the regula- (a) Medical officers attached to regiments, batteries, and corps, (o) Bearer compames. ^ (c) Field hospitals. (c^) Stationary hospitals on lines of communication (e) Base hospitals. Regimental Aid -A medical officer is attached to each regiment, battery of Royal Artillery, and company of Royal Engineers. With a regiment he is provided with one pair of field medical and surgical panniers one field companion with water bottle complete, one surreal haversack, one circular tent; but, if with a smaller unit, he is supplied only witlia field companion with water bottle and one surgical haver- sack. I his equipment the medical officer draws from the army medical stores previous to embarkation, and on taking the field, it is carried for him in the regimental transport. He replenishes his stores from the nearest field hospital. The officers commanding corps draw the field stretchers m the proportion of one for each company, and convey them in the regimental transport. The medical officer is required to enter his which a strengthening footpiece, c, is retained in its place by the foot clews of the hammock, and greater security is given to the patient by the strap and toggle d holding the sides of the hammock together. The ham-pieoe, 5 6, is tightiy secured to the hammock to prevent displacement. x- > i & j =douic * Morphia in solution is liable to spontaneous change, and is uncertain in its strength if laid up for any time. To obviate this, M. Vidal adds to the solution a quantity of choral equivalent to twice the weight of the morphia it contains.—" New Eemedies, Jan. 1S70. t Vide Appendix V. for personal equipment. 1 Abbreviations used in the text—P.M.0-, Principal Medical Officer- OSD Ordnance Store Department, , . . •,