250 THE INDIAN CIVIL SERVICE. as guards, engine-drivers, signal and pointsmen on tne Indian railways, come under the rules prescribed for the Pilot Service and Royal Navy. THE INDIAN CIVIL SERVICE, {Covenanted and Uncovenanted). 1- ^ candidate may be admitted into the Civil Service of the Govern- ment of India, if ametropic in one or both eyes, provided that with correcting lenses the acuteness of vision be not less than ^ in one eye and I in the other; there being no mocbid changes in the fundus of either eye. 2. Cases of myopia, however, with a posterior staphyloma, may be admitted into the service, provided the ametropia in either eye do not exceed 2-5 D., and no active morbid changes of choroid or retina be present. 3. A candidate who has a defect of vision arising from nebula of the cornea is disqualified, if the sight of either eye be less than ; and in such a case the acuteness of vision in the better eye must equal | with or without glasses. ' 4. Paralysis of one or more of the exterior muscles of the eyebaU dis- qualifies a candidate for the Indian Civil Service. In the case of a candidate said to have been cured of strabismus by operation, but without restoration of binocular vision, if with correcting glasses the vision reach the above standard (1), and if the movement of each eye be good, the candidate may be passed. The same rule applies to the case of unequal ametropia without binocular vision, both eyes having full acuteness of vision with glasses and good movement. Candidates for admission into the following Departments come under the rules laid down for the Civil Service :—Ecclesiastical, Education, Salt, and Opium. Candidates for the Departments of Public Works, Forest, Survey, Telegraph, Eailway, Factories, as well as Police, and various artificers, may be admitted into the service under the following rules :— 1. If myopia in one or both eyes exist, a candidate may be passed, provided the ametropia do not exceed 2'5 D., and if with coi-recting glasses, not exceeding 2 "5 D., the acuteness of vision in one eye equal %, and the other ^, there being normal range of accommodation with the glasses. 2. Myopic astigmatism does not disqualify a candidate for the service, provided the combined spherical and cylindrical glasses required to cor- rect the error of refraction do not exceed - 2 5 D. ; the acuteness of vision in one eye, when corrected, being equal to f, and in the other eye f together with normal range of accommodation with the correcting glasses there being no evidence of progressive disease in the choroid or retina. , 3, A candidate having total hypermetropia not exceeding 4 D. is not