WOUNDS OF TEE FACE AND ADJACENT PARTS. 85 At the assault on the great Eedan, 1855, an officer received a bullet wound at the ala of the right nostril. The bullet entered the mouth, smashed most of his teeth in the upper and lower jaw, broke in the hard palate, lacerated the tongue extensively, and broke the lower jaw in several places. His condition was that of extreme wretchedness ; but by adjustments of the parts as far as possible, removal of splinters, and sup]3ort by means of the gutta-percha splint, he was made comparatively comfortable. The suppuration was profuse, and the wounds remained open for a considerable pex'iod, but he so far recovered as to be able to perform the duties of a field officer, having had a false palate and several teeth adapted to his mouth. This officer was supported for several days by fluid nourishments administered through a quill passed well back in the mouth. Fracture or Fissure of the Symphysis is not difficult of detection. Sir W. Fergusson adopts the following method ior keeping the fragments moderately steady :—" I shape two narrow wedges of cork about an inch and a half long, aiad a quarter thick at the base, and sloping away to a point, one of which has been placed on each side between the teeth : and then I have affixed a wetted and softened piece of pasteboard on the chin, which has next been drawn tightly up, by means of a bandage carried from this part over the crown of the head ; as the pasteboard has got dry, a kind of mould has thus been formed on the chin, which has obstructed all future movements so long as it has been kept on. The cork wedges have insured regularity as regards the teeth, and an opening has been left between the incisors, whereby the patient has been fed uijon soups and other fluid nourishment. (Generally, however, the wedges have become loose, and in the course of ten or fifteen days the patients have become accustomed to restrain the movements of the pai'ts, and without taking particular pains about tightening the bandages after- wards, excellent cures have followed." The sufferer should be supported by fluid nourishment admini.stered by a tube passed to the back of the mouth, or by a long narrow spoon; indeed, it may sometimes be necessary to support J^ature by enemata of beef tea, wine, &c. Wounds of the Ear.—The external ear maybe cut away, or cut off with a sword, or otherwise injured. Instances have been recorded by Pard and Hildanns of the ear having been comi^letely detached, and when replaced healing without any difficulty. Measures should there- fore be adopted, on an ear being cut or injured, to replace any pieces, and secure them by means of very fine sutures, taking care to include the o\iter skin only, and not the cartilage. Wounds of the orbit include the eyelids, which may be so injured as to cause much loss of tissue, and as after-consequences eversion and inversion. The bones of the orbit may be injured, and result in inflam- mation of the brain or its membranes. Mr. Hennen records a case in which a bullet was lodged in the orbit without causing injury to the eye or the bones ; it was removed on the following day by dressing forceps, was found flattened, and had caused but little irritation to the eye.' Such escapes are not often met wdth. Bayonets and sharp-pointecj