EXCISION. bone and the hooked process of the unciform are severed from the rest of the carpus, the former with the knife, the latter with the cutting pliers. In cleaning the anterior aspect of the carpus, care must be taken not to go so far forwards as to endanger the deep jaalmar arch._ Now, the ligaments of the internal carpal bones being sufficiently divided, they ai-e to be removed with blunt bone forceps. Next, the end of the ulna is made to protrude from the incision, and is sawn off, as low down as is consistent with its condition, but in any case above its radial articulation. The end of the radius is then cleaned sufficiently to allow of, its being protruded and removed. If this can be done without disturbing the tendons from their grooves it is far better. The operator next attends to the metacarpal bones, which are pushed out from one or other incision Fig. 110. and cut off with the pliers so as to remove the whole of their cartilage- covered portions. The trapezium bone, which was left in the early stage of the operations, is now carefully dissected out, so as to avoid any injury to the tendon of the flexor carjii radialis or to the radial artery, and the articular surface of the first metacarpal bone is then exposed and removed. Lastly, the cartilaginous portion of the pisiform bone is taken away ; but the non-articular part is left behind unless it is diseased, in which case it should be removed entire. The same remark applies to the hooked process of the unciform. "In order to ensure motion, particularly in the fingers, passive move- ments should be performed from a very early period after the operation. For this purpose. Lister places the limib on a splint with the palm of the hand raised by a large wedge of cork fixed below it, so that the joints of the fingers can be moved without taking the limb off the apparatus," (fig. 110). MacCormac reports most favourably on an apparatus of Professor Esmarch for treating cases of resection of wrist-joint. " The hand and arm are placed in a prone or semi-prone position on the splint (fig. Ill), whose form is such as to leave the wrist exposed and easy to be got at for the application of dressings. The whole apparatus en fonction, con- sisting of a suspending rod, a plaster of paris or other form of bandage, and the sphnt, is represented in fig. 112, and the facility yvith. which the patient can move about in bed, or readjust the position of his arm, is at once perceived." Excision of the Carpal Ends of the Bones of the Forearm.—Mr. Skey