93 WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. Dr. Chisholm's views are given in the Surgeon-General's Eeport. He deprecates venesection in chest wounds ; even when the king is inflamed he prefers the mild antiphlogistic and expectant treatment to the spoliative. The large success in the treatment of perforating chest wounds in the Confederate hospitals, puts forth in strong light the powers of Nature to heal all wounds when least interfered with by- meddlesome surgery. Absolute rest, cooling beverages, moderate nourishment, avoiding over-stimulation, with small doses of tartar emetic, veratrum or digitalis, the liberal use of opium, and attention to internal secretions will be required in all cases ; and in most will compose the entire treatment. Among the pharmaceutical preparations employed by the American surgeons was opium, which appears to be the one on which most reliance was placed ; but care should be observed in its administration, as hcemor- rhage tends to increase its action. It quiets the nervous system, and indirectly moderates hfemorrhage. Stromeyer, in his Experiences of Gun-shot Wounds, 1866, remarks, under the head of Wounds of Thorax, that, "with the exception of a single instance of venesection, which was at his own suggestion, there was no bleeding for chest wounds." He frequently discontinued wine and coffee, which acted as stimulants, and ordered the patient to take whey, and later on, cod-liver oil. "It is only through tranquil- ity and prudent nourishment that the dangers of chest wounds can be avoided." Legoiiest objects strongly to bleeding for wounds of lungs, as being more injurious than useful. He thinks it is better to close the wound, have recoiirse to exterior stimulants, and to apply ice locally. Should hsemorrhage continue in the cavity of the chest, the wound must be opened if closed, and if too small to admit of evacuation of blood it must be enlarged; should this enfeeble the sufferer, the wound should be reclosed. The patient should lie on the affected side, with a light bandage round the chest. In former days, excessive bleeding for hsemorrhage from the lungs, the result of a wound, Avas the general and established practice ; but at the present time, and since the Crimean War, quite the opposite method has been and is most in favour ; in all probability due to the exertions of the many distinguished and thoughtful siirgeons who served in that war. The course now reconunended is to close the wound, allow the cavity of pleura to fill with blood, with a view to compression of the wound in lung, and thereby to close the vessel; but should great distress and dirticulty of In-eathing supervene, place the sufferer on the wovmded side and allow the blood to come away; and if the wound is not sufficiently large for this purpose, carefully extend it. Should there be two wounds, the uppermost should be closed. Ice, refrigerating drinks, dilute sulphuric acid and opium, acetate of lead or ergot, may be administered, the patient being placed in a cool room, with little or no food, and no stimulant whatever. Gun-shot Wounds of both Lungs.—With regard to the effects of a gun-shot wound of both lungs, many cases have been reported of