CONTENTS. Intkoductokt General Kemaekb. Aim and Scope of this Work—Position of a Principal Medical Officer mth an Army in the Field, and of Acquaintance with Intended Military Movements—Organisa- tion of Transports—Eesponsibilities of Medical Officers on Taking the Field- Surgical Instruments—The Art of Extemporising Appliances—Acquaintance with the Dress of the Soldier—Stretcher Sections—Instructions for Carnage of Sick and Wounded on Siretchers—Means of Extemporaneous Transport^Rail- way Hospital Trains—Ship's Hammocks—Horse Litters-Transport in Moun- tainous Districts—Cacolets—Ambulance Lift for Ship or Store for Embarking or Disembarking Sick or Wounded Men, ..... 1-20 Sebvice in the Field. Preparations for the Field—Accompanying Troops into Action—Medical Assistance in the Field-Aid to Begiments, &c.—First Line of Medical Assistance—Collect- ing Stations—Dressing Stations—War Establishment of a Bearer Company: Its Wheel and Pack Transport—Second Line of Medical Assistance—War Establish- ment of Field Hospitals: Their Wheel and Pack Transport—Plan of Camp for Bearer Company and for Field Hospital—Indian Regulations—Advanced UepSt of Medical Stores—Third Line of Medical Assistance—Stationary Hospitals— General Hospital at Base—First Relief to Wounded after an Engagement with the Enemy—Wounded to be Urst Relieved—First Field Dressings—Heemorrhage —Shock-The Pain of a Gun-shot Wound—Lights, . . . 20-32 GuN-SnoT Fractures. General Remarks on Gun-shot Fractures—Extemporary Appliances—Straw Mats— Fractures of the Leg—Fractures of the Arm—Fractures of the Lower End of Humerus—Fractures of the Fore-arm, ..... 32-38 Splints. Wire or Trough Splints—Wooden and Metal Gauze Splints—Duncan Splint- Iron Wire Gauze Splints—Wyatt's Splint-Extemporised Splints—Extemporary Pads and Cushions—Cautions about same—Plaster of Paris Bandages—Arm Slings, 39-18 Fat-Embolism, .... 48 Wounds. Wounds, how inflicted—Nature of Wounds—Bacteriology of Wounds—Suppuration —Treatment of Wounds—Listerian Dressings—Drainage—Sponges—Sutures- Treatment of Accidental Wounds—Antiseptics—Carbolic Acid—Corrosive Sub- limate—Cyanide of Mercury and Zinc—Boracic Acid—Salicylic Acid—Iodine— Iodoform—Salol—Sulpho-Carbolate of Zinc—Chloride of Zinc—Eucalyptus Oil —Burnt Alum—Bismuth—Alcohol—Condy's Fluid—Chlorinated Soda—Cotton— Tenax—Treatment of Foul Wounds—Incised Wounds—Punctured Wounds- Lacerated Wounds—Contused Wounds—Wind-Balls, . . . 49-58