AMPUTATION. i6i Flies. In camp and tropical hospitals, the greatest care is required to counter- act the persistent efforts of these insects to deposit their ova in wounds, and to prevent the generation of larva in them ; bvit the modern forms of dressing if carefully applied ought to quite prevent this accident. Maggots in Stumps. In warm climates maggots are very apt to infest wounds and stumps ; the carbolic spray will in all probability act as a preventive to this disgusting circumstance. Porter experienced an instance of their rapid generation in India after the battle of Sultanpore. He amputated the leg of a native in consequence of a gun-shot wound. The stump was dressed with lint moistened with cold water, and secured for transport. On the second day after the operation, a considerable journey having been performed, on proceeding to dress it, the inside presented a living mass of maggots, which were removed and the case progressed most favourably. By keeping lint saturated with turpentine on the outer dressings, no more maggots appeared. Creasote in solution, common salt, and carbolic acid solution will expel them from a wound. Bloodless Operation. Professor Esmarch introduced what is known as the " bloodless opera- tion," whereby a surgeon can remove a limb or excise a joint below the main trunk of an artery, without losing a drop of blood, and with but little assistance from others, two great advantages in w^arfare. Sir Jos. Lister has somewhat modified the method of applying the elastic bandage. He has shown that an equally good result can be obtained by raising the limb straight uji for two or three minutes, and gently rubbing the veins towards the trunk. " By this means the limb is rendered bloodless, both by emptying the veins and by contraction of the arteries, and then an elastic bandage can be bound tightly round the extremity at a suitable distance from the part about to be operated upon." The writer has invariably adopted this i)lan of late years, and in opera- tions upon bones the convenience of a bloodless operation is very great. The objections to Esmarch's method of first enveloping the limb with an elastic bandage is that, in the case of suppuration, pus and putrid septic matter may be forced into the interstices of the sound tissues. Lister also remarks that he would hesitate in applying the continuous elastic bandage to a part affected with soft cancer. Again, the thick caoutchouc tube has in the case of the arm, where the soft parts are comparatively scanty, prodiiced serious paralytic effects. Without due precautions hismorrhage is apt to occur after a bloodless operation. This, as a rule, may be checked by irrigation of the wound with iced water, by securing everything that showed a lumen, including 11