WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 99 unconnected vnth. injuries of one or both cavities which it divides, or in which symptoms of their being affected did not appear; although I have met with one instance where a musket ball passed along from the sternal to the vertebral connection of that septam, precisely following the curva- ture of the ribs. The prevention of inflammation is the leading indication of cure ; but injuries are frequently found on dissection, which were not at all indicated during life by any peculiar symptom." An operation for tiie relief of this hernia has been proposed by Guthrie, which, though formidable, he says cannot be compared as to da,nger with the incision of 12 or 14 inches long through the walls of the abdomen, which has been in some instances successfully made for the removal of diseased ovaria. The opening should be a straight incision through the wall of the abdomen, large enough to admit the hand immediately over the part where the diaphragm is supposed to be injured. It should be closed by a continuous suture throughout the skin. The secondary causes of death after lung wounds may arise from haemorrhage, pneumonia, pleuritis, bronchitis, ulceration of lung tissue, empyema, pyaemia, gangrene of the lung, tetanus. WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. Classification of Wounds of the Abdomen.—These wounds are usually divided into penetrating and non-penetrating. The dangers to be con- tended with in aU wounds of the abdomen are hjemorrhage and diffused septic peritonitis ; and, of course, the greater extent of injury, especially internal, the greater iirobability of these formidable complications. The prognosis of wounds of the abdomen is very unfavourable, the diagnosis very obscure, and the results of treatment discoui-aging. It is, therefore, most important that the question as to the penetration of the abdominal cavity should be settled as speedily as possible, and this can be most easily determined by passing a probe into the wound. Of course, due care must be taken in this, as in the case of all wounds, to introduce such instruments only as are perfectly clean and aseptic,' but if proper precautions are taken there can be no objection to this course, more especially as the information sought for is of the first im- portance. MacCormac adds*: "And if this fail to clearly establish the fact or otherwise of penetration, the wound should be enlarged and exjDlored to its termination either in the parietes or more deeply." "Abdominal section for penetrating wounds is steadily gaining adher- ents, it being admitted that the mortality has been materially decreased since its introduction, and that the intrinsic risk of an abdominal section tor exploratory purposes is, if properly performed, very slight. It must always be remembered that to wait for symptoms of perforation of intestine to appear in a case of penetrating abdominal wound is greatly to decrease the chance of recovery, and some surgeons advocate imme- diate exploration in all such cases."—Frar Book, 1890 Non-penetrating wounds, uncomplicated, without injury of the internal viscera, require no special line of treatment. If there are * Abdominal Section, by Sir W. MacCormac, F.U.C.S., 1887.