GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 66 results. Out of one hundred and fourteen gun-shot fractures (many involving the larger joints) not one required amputation, and the vs^riter strongly urges in all such injuries the use of antiseptics, with x^artial resection if required, in preference to major operations.* This experience would urge the necessity of trying to render woundH aseptic after the patients reach the field hospitals, even if the first dressings have been imperfect, as they are likely to be should the number of wounded be great, and the interval prolonged between the time of injury and arrival of the wounded at the field hospitals. Bayonet, Lance, Sword, and Arrow Wounds.—Bayonet and lance wounds come under the head of punctured wounds; sword, of incised ; and arrow wounds as a combination of lacerated and punctured. The latter only will be considered here, as the former have been already alluded to. Arrow wounds are not likely to be met with in warfare between civilised countries, but arrows are still in use among savage tribes, and as the army or naval surgeon might be called upon to exercise his skill in the treatment of such wounds, the following information may be found useful. . Mr. Hamilton describes the point of entrance of an arrow as bemg "indicated by a narrow slit, the margins of which are slightly dis- coloured, resembling very much the wound made by a small ball. The wound of exit resembles the wound of entrance, except that it is not discoloured, and is somewhat larger." He continues, " Suppuration can seldom be avoided. Profuse haemorrhage, extensive abscesses, empyema, and tetanus are among the most frequent complications of these accidents, when only the external or fleshy portions of the body are imphcated.' The great difficulty to be overcome in the treatment is to remove an arrow which has lodged without leaving its head. "If the arrow has passed nearly through, so that its point can be telt upon the opposite side, the surgeon should cut down upon it by a counter incision, and extract it by that route, as suggested by Larrey; and m order to faciUtate its removal in this direction, he may, as soon as the head of the arrow is withdrawn, and the end of the shaft to which it is attached can be seized by the forceps, cut off the opposite end of the shaft close to the skin by a pair of bone nippers ; or if he finds the head and the shaft separated, he may withdraw the shaft on the one side and the head on the other, taking care, however, that the tendinous string (a string which attaches head to shaft) is brought out with the head, other- wise it may be left in the track of the wound. The same practice may sometimes be adopted-namely, making a counter incision to reach the head, even though the head is not felt, P^^^^ded he surgeon can determine the length of the shaft, and consequently the probable ^°" iTafrow ha^ng penetrated bone, an attempt should first be made to extract it by rocldng it to and fro in a direction at right angles with the plane of the groovf which is made on the outer or feathered end of the shaft." . ^„ * InternationaV Journal of Medical Sciences, voL ii., p. 553. im>.