GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 70 available It thus differs from other stimulants, as ammonia or ether, which are not foods, and their administration must be accompanied by food and alcohol."—Fothergill. Sanitary Treatment.—The surgeon should observe strict sanitary precautions about the patient's person, bedding, and clothing, and, when it is possible, ample cubic space should be given to each person; wounded men require at least 1,200 feet each in buildings. In huts and tents the allowance may be less, but the ventilation of buildings is of the greatest importance ; it must, however, be observed that, though ventilation is necessary, a wounded soldier may have too much of it, and in the treatment of gun-shot wounds too low a temperaUtre. may be attended by most serious consequences, from depressing and hjwering the vital powers. During the Crimean campaign and the late Franco- Prussian war. the influence of temperature on suppurating wounds was most remarkable. In the Versailles hospitals many of them took an unhealthy action when the temperature of the wards became very low. It must be remembered that the virus of infective disease is an organised body, a micro-organism ; it cannot arise spontaneously, but only from a parent. These organisms have a way of attaching them- selves to solid particles of dust, &c. Dirt, overcrowding, and hunger do not generate them, but the first two may concentrate them, and the last will render the individual less able to resist them. The air should be so fresh as to dilute the infected dust it contains, and so render the chance of infection slight. Hence the reason for free ventilation and ample cubic space in dealing with wound diseases ; hence, agaLa, the importance of a rigid isolation of the first or early cases of infective disease, even if a change of site is needed. Fig. 73. Extemporised Bedsteads.—Bedsteads are most essential for the com- fort and protection of patients; they may be improvised as already shown by figs. 16 and 17, or by two rows of stakes driven into the ground, rising 14 inches above the surface, and standing 10 inches asunder (fig. 73). The width of the frame must be determined by the bedding, and the number of stakes by the necessary lengtli. Simple trestles made up of rough wood serve well to rest stretchers upon (see fig. 74), and convenient cots can be easily constructed from rough packing-case wood, &c. (vide fig. 75). i j Extemporised mattresses may be made with blankets or sheets stitched