222 ERYSIPELAS. cutaneous ; (2) the cellulo-cutaneous, or phlegmonous; and (3) the ceUuHH« or diffuse inflammation of the connective tt^sue," whS Sleisen saSf IS not erysipelas. ' ^ emeisen says The first, or cutaneous, is known by redness of the skin whiVli a:. appears momentarily on pressure, withLvere Turning or siS'pafns" and sweUing from effusion into the cellular tissue. The intensity of thp redness, which is the characteristic symptom of this disease Tl Vepend very much upon the state of health of the patient, as ik debihtated subjects It takes on more of a yellowish tint. In tSs form miW LTaSnd'crus?' 'PP'"' ''^'^^ day, when the^ The constitutional symptoms of idiopathic erysipelas, caused by the absorption into the blood of ptomaines, are thus described by Fehleilen- An initial shivering, the characteristic sharply-defined redness, the more or less rapid spreading on the surface (the so-called migration of the rose , the progress of the fever, and finally terminating in resolution and healing without suppuration or abscess, confirm the diagnosis of true erysipelas. Traumatic erysipelas is of a more serious nature and if there IS a wound or granulating surface, it takes on an unhealthy action ■ * ^'^'^^^'^^ become flabby, and covered with thin serum, instead ot Healthy pus ; granulations become pale and more or less absorbed or the wound may become dry and the edges swollen ; and when there is a tendency in a wound to unite, the adhesions give way. On the other Jiand, an attack of erysipelas has sometimes a distinct therapeutic effect upon wounds and tumours. In the second, or cellulo-cutaneous or phlegmonous, the redness is deeper, sometimes even dusky or purple ; inflammation extends deeper into the tissues, and, if neglected, will terminate in diffuse suppuration or sloughing of them, extending even to the intermuscular septa, the sfieatfis of the vessels and tendons, or the tendons themselves • the swelhng is much greater, is hard and brawny, pitting on pressure • the pam IS severe and throbbing. ' _ The constitutional symptoms, due also to absorption of ptomaines, as in the cutaneous form, but more intensified, will, however, soon assume a typhoid character if the patient is weak and has been subjected to much privation and exposure; but, if under the influence of proper treatment, and the patient is strong, the inflammation will subside and the disease will gradually disappear. In the so-called third kind, a cellulitis or diffuse inflammation, the disease affects the connective tissue primarily, and the skin seconda'rily. It is characteristic by the same local and constitutional signs and symptoms as phlegmonous erysipelas, but more intense. As the disease advances, the skin becomes mottled, livid in patches, and rapidly runs into blackish sloughs. It may extend to any distance up a limb, and even invade the trunk ; it will also affect the sheaths of the vessels and tendons, and the tendons themselves. The joints may also become involved, and bones be denuded of periosteum and become necrosed. The treatment which should be adopted in the first form must be, to clear out the stomach and bowels by an ipecacuanha emetic and