51 WOUNDS. ing their development. Metschnikoff has heen carrying on some re- searches into this circmnstance, and he describes the leucocytes of the tissues as feeding on bacteria, taking them into their protoplasmic sub- stance and digesting them, thus preventing their indefinite propagation among the tissues. The cells which exercise this devouring function he termed "phagocytes,'' and the whole process "phagocytosis." Lister, in his Berhn address, says that various objections have been urged against these views, but he thinks that Metschnikoff has met them effec- tively. He also adds that this theory explains much that has been mysterious in the relations of micro-organisms to wounds. Koch, how- ever, is disposed to think that this explanation of Metschnikoff's, that a kind of struggle occurs between the invading parasites and the phago- cytes (which are supposed to act as defenders of the body), is losing ground, and that the probability is that in this question the principal Xiart is played by chemical processes rather than that it is due to purely cellular processes alone. Suppuration is now believed to be entu'ely due to the presence of pathogenic microbes, or rather to their ptomaines or ferments, which, however, can only cause it in the tissues immediately in contact with them. Its progressive character is due to the spread of the micro- organisms within the body, and the production of ptomaines propor- tionate in amount to the number of microbes present. In one case the suppm'ation remains circumscribed as in a furuncle; in others the regional infection is more extensive, and a diffuse phlegmonous inflammation is the result; while in a third the local infection leads to a general invasion, and the patient dies of sepsis or pj^Oimia. Several observers positively deny that any mechanical, chemical, or thermal influences can produce suppuration if microbes are excluded. Cheyne asserts that for the formation of a true abscess we require the peptonising ferment produced by microbes. He describes a minute abscess as con- taining a colony of microbes, which, when fixed in the tissues, cause a litnited coagulation-necrosis of the tissues in immecUate contact with the microbes by the action of the ptomaines. A few hours later, a zone of leucocytes aggregate around the dead tissue. The products of inflam- mation also remain fluid, probably from the peptonising effect of the microbes, and thus an abscess is formed.* To sum up, micro-organisms are then the immediate cause of all foi-ms of acute suppuration and of traumatic infective disease, under wliich is included pyajmia, septicaemia, erysipelas, hospital gangrene, phagedtena, osteo-myehtis, and tetanus. The so-called burrowing of pus in unhealthy wounds IS due to their spreading in the tissues. Also the secondary hfemorrhage occurring in suppurating wounds in the second or third week IS mamly due to a softened and diseased condition of the walls of the artery, brought about by the peptonising action of the ferments found during the gro\\'th of these organisms in its neighbourhood. The causes of putrefaction and wound-infection being thus shown to l)e due to the entrance of germs into the wound, it will be evident that to prevent putrefaction of the discharges, the wound must be protected * Surgical Bacteriology, Professor Senn, Chicago.