iNJURim OF THE HEAD. 76 purple colour. The extravasation can clearly be seen not to be in the skin, but to shme through it." The discharge of serum from the nose or ear, which ia the latter welis up as quickly as it is removed, and may flow to the amount of several ounces, is generally admitted as a certain sign of fracture of the base of the skull. Scalp wounds frequently occur to artillerymen by being thrown off the gun carriage when going very fast. When such accidents occur the wound should be treated antisepticaUy. The hair should be shaved and the torn scalp should be thoroughly purified with a 1 to 20 carbolic solu- tion allowing the solution to go into all parts of the wound, whether the membranes or brain substance be exposed or not, the parts should then be brought together by wire sutures if necessary, and drainage tubes must also be inserted. The wound should now be covered wfth some dry absorbent dressing as sal alembroth wool, boric, or salicylated lint over which is put a layer of cotton wool, the whole being kept in place by a good bandage. The dressing should not be changed oftener than is absolutely required. Care should be taken to evacuate any abscesses that may form at an early period by adequate incisions. Sabre wounds on the top of the head are not by any means so dangerous as;; those on the side. Sabre cuts will generally admit of being at once replaced, and in many instances, with the aid of a few stitches and proper supporting bandage, they adhere without further trouble. With section of scalp, cranium, and even brain, from a sabre, recovery may take place. Injuries of the head affecting the brain have been divided into injuries from concussion and injuries from compression or irritation of the brain. Concussion appears to be a shock communicated to the nervous system, in consequence of some external injury or violence producing disturbance, if not positive injury, such as laceration of the substance of the brain itself. The functions of the brain may be temporarily suspended, insensibility being slight and transitory, or it may be pro- longed for several hours, or the patient may sink without recovering consciousness. The symptoms and signs of concussion are influenced by the extent of the injury to the brain. When very slight, the feelings may be only faintness, giddiness, or mental confusion ; but when the injury is severe there will he insensibility, and the surface of the body will be cold and pale ; the sufferer, when spoken to in a loud tone, may answer in an incoherent manner, falling again into a state of semi-unconsciousness ; muscular power is lost, the pulse feeble, the bladder and bowels act involuntarily, the pupils are contracted, breathing appears to have ceased, circulation has been suspended. This condition may last for a few minutes or hours, and is the first stage ; its duration depends on the severity of the shock. In the second stage stupefaction continues, though the patient may be cognisant of being moved or roughly handled. It may be possible to rouse him, which partial consciousness is in favour of there being no compression: and when the pupils are contracted (both being alike) it is also a symptom in favour of there being no compression.