202 HAEMORRHAGE. Sl^'f ^^V* ?! '^^"'^ through the main artery of the limb, and at the same time to admit of a certain amount of circulation being carried on. It was found that with wounded men having the old-fashioned twisted tlll^'' °f I f screw tourniquet, applied to a limb, and transported for any distance without surgical assistance, the tourniquet fiequently shifted or the man lont the limb from gangrene. To obviate tnis, and admit of a wounded man retaining the instrument for a con- siderable time either during transport or until the services of a surgeon might be available. Dr. A. B. Mott, U.S.A., invented one with bands or Hoops of iron or brass, which Mr. Hamilton describes as "a very ingenious field tourniquet (fig. 121), which is easily applied, and may be considered safe even in the hands of those who know nothing of the danger of ligating hmbs too tightly, since the compression is applied at only two points in the circumference of the limb." Professor Esmarch, in his work on bandaging, describes a tourniquet tor the held invented by Volckers, which he considers, on the lower part of the upper arm, can be applied with much less danger than the usual circular tourniquet. Volckers found it was easy to make the pulse above the elbow disappear, by crossing the arm with a stick at the proper angle of the axis of the bone. This apparatus (fig. 122) can be made with two little round sticks of about 8 inches in length, one for the inside, and the other for the outside of the arm, which he keeps in position by means of straps _ On the centre of the inner stick he attaches a pad, which is placed immediately over the artery, and, by tightening the straps, is brought to bear on the vessel. For pressure on the femoral artery in the upper part of the thigh, Professor Esmarch gives an illustration of an apparatus which can be easily constructed. A bandage is to be rolled on the middle of a stick at least a foot in length; then this bandage is to be placed against the artery, Fig. 122. and tightened by means of a strap and strong buckle passed behind the limb and over each end of the stick ; by this means continued pressure can be maintained (fig. 123). Several ingenious modifications have been made of the ordinary screw tourniquet, whereby the strap is carried clear of the sides of the limb to allow of venous return. These have been effected by the addition of metal wings, over which the strap is carried.