WOUNDS OF JOINTS. considered, in a better condition than if they had been subjected to amputation. Sir J. Lister has endeavoured, with most happy results, to render the operation of excision of the wrist successful, and his operation should, if practicable, be selected, being least liable to injure the important struc- tures near the joint. His recommendations for after-treatment should be attended to. 2Vie Expectant Treatment.—In selecting cases for this method of treat- ment, the surgeon must be guided by the amount of destruction of soft parts and bone, bearing in mind M. Legouest's practical hints. From the experience of the American War, injury of one of the large arteries complicating these fractures was not always regarded as an absolute counter-indication of expectant conservative treatment. In 707 cases treated on the expectant method, confined abscesses occupying sheaths, burs£E, and synovial sacs, and leading to extensive adhesions and con- tractions, were amongst the most frequent complications. The wound should be treated by the strictest antiseptic methods, and the parts should be supported without constricting bandages upon a padded splint. Free incisions shoixld be made when suppuration has taken place, and movements of the finger and hand should be commenced as early as practicable. When the wrist is so severely injured as to preclude aU hojies of saving it, amputation through the joint may be had recourse to. In applying bandages to the wrist the fingers should be left free, and occasionally moved to prevent anchylosis. Gun-shot Wounds of the Hip-Joint. These wounds are without doubt the most dangerous of all joint wounds. They are difficult to recognise, they are frequently not dis- covered through want of proper care, and the immobilisation of the joint, which is the chief requisite for successful treatment of joint wounds is more difficult to carry out than with any other joint. ' Military surgeons in former days looked upon gun-shot wounds of the hip-joint as simply hopeless, and considered that the wounded died except in very rare cases, just as much after one mode of treatment as after the other. Mr. Hennen makes these observations —" Injuries occasioned by balls lodging near or about the joint of the hip are amono-st the most serious in military surgery; the fever, the profuse dischar°e the tedious exfoh.ation, all tend to sink the patient, and are but too often fatal. In some of these the course of the ball is so obscure, and its place of lodgment so uncertain, that it can only be detected after death " Ihese remarks entirely bear out the experience of most surgeons of the ^If^"^^ mortality statistics of the Franco-German War of 1870-71, give evidence that hip-joint injuries are not absolutely hopeless and an endeavour should in consequence be made to try and brines about more happy results, either by judiciously conducted conservative treat- ment m properly selected cases, by excision of the joint, or removal of sphnters, or by amputation.