4 INTRODUCTORY GENERAL REMARKS. Before attempting to remove a badly-wounded man from the spot where he has fallen the stretcher should be brought close up to him. The wounded man should not be carried by hand further than can be avoided. In placing the stretcher for this purpose, it should be laid by the side of the patient according to present regulations, but in some systems it is directed to be placed at the head of the patient in a line with his body. The following instructions have been laid down by Sir Thos. Longmore for the proper carriage of stretchers :— The front and rear bearers of the conveyance must start with opposite feet. They must not move " in step," but, on the contrary, must march out of step, or, as the ordinary expression is, must " break step." If the man in the front steps off left foot forward, the man in the rear must step off at the same moment right foot forward, or vice versa, and this broken step must be maintained throughout the whole distance of the transport. The bearers must march with a steady but easy step, particularly avoiding that elevation of their bodies which is caused by springing from the fore part of the feet. The foot should be planted without any wavering on the ground at each step, and in moving forward it should only be raised sufficiently to clear the ordinary impediments on its surface. Some bearers, unless this rule is enforced, will make a slight spring in their movements, which spring is of course communicated to the more or less pliable conveyance they are carrying. They do so in the belief that the weight is sustained more easily in consequence of the elastic movement which is thus obtained, but they take no note of its ill effect on the person conveyed. Whether even or uneven as regards measure of time, great care must be taken that the steps of the front and rear bearers are invariably even and alike in distance. If the steps do not well and accurately agree in length, there will constantly be a hasty " catching up " of one or other by his fellow-bearer, and the stretcher and patient will be jolted on every occasion when au effort is thus made to re-adjust the distance. If the bearei's march wth an exactly cor- responding step as regards length, this source of disturbance will be avoided. When forming a stretcher detachment, as far as circumstances permit, men of nearly the same height and strength should be selected for acting together. When a stretcher is supported by men of equal height and proportion, if the ground be level, the stretcher will necessarilj^ assume a horizontal position also, and men possessed of like degrees of strength will carry the weight and move together more evenly. If the gi-ound be uneven, the bearers will have to mutually adapt the heiglit of their respective ends of the conveyance to the irregularities in oi'der to pre- serve its level condition. When slings or shoulder-straps are used to assist the bearers in carrying stretchers, care should be taken at starting that they are buckled so that the parts supporting the poles are at equal distances from the surface of the ground. A a most ground over which the woundedmen have to be carried is likely