INTRODUCTORY GENERAL REMARKS. 1 Officer should have his head full of the forward movement, and the Medical Officer should have his head full of the backward movement." It will be quite obvious to those who know anything about armies that the only way in which a Surgeon-General could render this assistance to a General Officer is by being in constant touch and communication with him as one of the staff, but if the Surgeon-(Jeneral of an Army is to be relegated to the lines of communication fir base,* he ceases to have any powers, and the authority that he should legitimately exercise will have to be usurped by a junior, as it is utterly impossible that anymilitary officer could exercise supreme command over an army in the field for any length of time without requiring constant reference to his principal medical officer upon a number of points of pressing or even vital im- portance, and as the professional advice tendered might or might not affect his [)lans, it can only be right that the medical officer so consulted should be the one to whom the country has entrusted the medical charge of the army. If, however, the piresent regulations are to con- tinue in force the Surgeon-General selected by the Secretary of State for War for the medical charge of the army wUl be miles away from the General Officer Commanding whose medical adviser must then be some junior medical officer, who will naturally give his best opinion under the circumstance but without any of the sense of responsibility that would weigh with the Surgeon-General of the Force. Organisation of Transport.—Rules and regulations exist in all civilised countries for the organisation of transport, supply of stores, comforts, medicines and surgical instruments vmder their respective departments ; but it is becoming now the recognised province of the medical staff in all European armies to take possession of the sick or wounded soldier from the time that he " falls out" at the front until he reaches the base hospitals however long the line of communication may be. It is, therefore, the nature of these executive duties that has led the medical officers in the varioiis armies to seek to have their position and status better defined. In the held the military power is paramount and everything is subordinated to it, consequently only those persons possess- ing army rank have authority. Medical officers of the army feel that if they are to accept the new responsibihties which the demands of modern warfare have of necessity thrown upon them, their position as officers in the matter of rank must be unequivocal. In the field there is too much seriousness of purpose present with every one to admit of any self- assertion, nor in the nature of things is this desirable at any time ; there- fore army surgeons seek for such recognition as wiU render them efficient in the discharge of their proper and legitimate duties without their having the least desire to trench upon the duties of their combatant brethren. It would seem only logical that the more the army medical officer is identified with and forms part of the military machine, the more efficient he will be, and consequently the greater advantage yrdl result to the army at large. The Army Surgeon ought to take considerable pains to make himself * Regulations for Medical Service.'. Part I., pora'^. 107,108. ISilO.