WOUNDS OF THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 117 surface of the exposed fat and cellular tissue, and then the point of the forefinger of the left hand should be thrust into the wound a httle m front of the anus, so as to penetrate between the accelerator urinse and the erector penis muscles—the knife being applied to any part which offers resistance ; when, with a little force to separate the tissues, the tip of the finger can be placed upon the membranous portion of the urethra, and the groove in the staff may be distinctly felt. The point of the blade, with the flat surfaces nearly horizontal, should now be carried along above the finger, made to perforate the urethra about three lines in front of the ijrostate, and then be slid along the groove until it has entered the bladder, having slit open the side of the urethra, aud notched the margin of the prostate in its course. The forefinger of the left hand should next be slipped slowly into the bladder along the staff, in such a manner as to cause dilatation of the surrounding textures, and its point should be moved about in search of the stone, which, being found, should be retained in position near the neck of the viscus; then the staff should be removed, and the forceps introduced along the upper surface of the finger, slowly withdrawing the latter as the former makes progress: this will be denoted by a gush of urine, at which instant the blades should be separated, when, on gently approximating them, the stone will in all probability be felt enclosed." WOUNDS OF THE ORGANS OF GENERATION. Wounds of the Penis, Perineum, and Urethra.—Missiles have been known to traverse the j)enis and perineum, and otherwise injure these parts. In wounds where the urethra has been laid bare, a catheter should be introduced and tied in; and, if the wound be clean, with edges in such condition that adhesion might be anticipated, they should be brought together by interrupted sutures ; but, if much lacerated, it will be necessary to wait patiently the process of healing by granulation, taking care that the urethra is kept free by the introduction of a catheter whenever the patient requires to pass water. When the laceration has been so extensive that closing by granulation is impossible, it is best to try and retain the direction and patency of the urethra as far as practic- able by freiiuently introducing a sound or catheter, and afterwards closing the wound by a plastic operation. Erections are a great hindrance to the healing of wounds of the penis, they tend to induce haiinorrhage and necessarily break up incipient adhesions, retarding union. The parts should be lightly dressed, the bed should be hard, regimen spare, and excitement avoided. Camphor and hyoscyamus may be given v/ith advantage. Retention oj urine is not uncommon with laceration of the urethra; an attempt should first be made to pass a catheter, which should be done with the greatest gentleness; the surgeon should pass the catheter as far as it will go; he should then place the patient in the lithotomy position and proceed to cut down, in the mesial line of the perineum, upon the end of the catheter, and from this opening he should endeavour to pass