INTRODUCTORY GENERAL REMARKS. 3 acquainted with the construction of all transport conveyances for the sick and wounded, and with the regulated plans of encampments for bearer-companies and tield hospitals, together with all the minutiae of their respective equipments. This knowledge can only be acquired by his having sufficient opportunities in peace time for constant practice with the units—viz., a field hospital and a bearer-company—the equip- ments for which are needed for this ptirpose in all large military centres. It is too late to attempt to learn the A B G of such things on service when every man is pi'essed for time and calls for help are being made on all sides. The time to learn about field hospitals and their equip- ment, where to find the different medicines, surgical appliances, as well as the cooking and feeding arrangements ; how to pitch and strike a camp ; how to readily divide a field hospital into its halves, each with its proper comjjlement of stores of all kinds, can only be leai-ned in the leisure time of peace, while upon a proper knowledge of such things on the part of the Medical Staff Corps will deijend the welfare and lives of sick and wounded officers and men. Surgical Instruments should be special objects for care. The French and German Armies have adopted the plan of having all their siargical knives made in piece with the handles, so that there are no scored wooden handles to hold and retain dirt. The cases in which they are packed are made of metal, and serve the double purpose of cases and of troughs for soaking the instruments before using them. When re- quired for operation the contents are taken out and the empty metal case is filled with an antiseptic lotion in which the knives are soaked ; when no longer required for this use they are emptied and dried and the knives are carefully packed away in them by means of absorbent cotton wool. The Art of Extemporising Appliances.—The extemporaneous con- struction of splints, pads, cushions, field kitchens, hospital huts, latrines, bedcots, litters, carts, &c., should engage the earnest attention of the army surgeon as he may be placed in positions when regular artificers are not available ; with knowledge on these matters, and the aid of a few orderlies, he may be able to secure shelter, properly cooked food, and comfort in a short time. On service he Avill find that, unless he is capable of supervising and directing such things, much will be left undone and those under his care must consequently suft'er; and even if the usual resources fail, or are not at hand, he should be able by extempor- aneous expedients to succour the woimded and relieve the sick. An acquaintance with tlie dress of the soldier may assist in discovering smne cause for inability to march or keep up with the others, such as tight collars, or badly-fitting boots, or wrinkles in trousers, &c. The Carriage of the Sick and Wounded on stretchers is highly im- portant, and the surgeon should be in a position to instruct those about hmi in the event of regularly trained men not being available. A stretcher section consists of four detachments, and each detachment of four men, two of whom carry the stretcher, while two act as a relief durmg the transport, and assist in placing upon the stretchers men who have met with serious fractures or other injuries.