AMPUTATION. The knife is then passed under the head of the bone from above, and as soon as the face of the instrument has fairly reached the surgical neck of the humerus, an assistant standing at the head of the patient pushes the thumbs of both hands into the wound above the knife, while the fingers remain in the axilla. He thus grasps and controls the axillary artery. The operation is completed by carrying the knife downwards close to the bone until the apex of the tegumentary wound in the axilla is reached, and then cutting almost directly outwards. Care must be taken not to sever the parts containing the artery until the knife has arrived at the lower mai'gin of the axilla. Spen^c's modHication, which Erichsen says is especially adapted for gun-shot wounds of the upper end of the humerus, consists in carrying the vertical incision farther forward, and commencing it just external to and below the tip of the coracoid process, as in excision of the shoulder- joint. The incision ought to expose the tendon of the long head of the biceps Ijang parallel to it. This may be turned on one side and the joint opened and examined; and if, from the state of the parts, it be still considered necessary to amputate, the operation is completed by making an oval incision through the skin from the end of the original cut, taking care not to go so deeply on the inner side as to Avound the vessels. The outer flap is then dissected up so as to enable the surgeon to get his knife internal to the head of the bone between it and the axillary artery. The assistant follows the knife with his hands and grasps the vessels, and the operation is finished by dividing the tissues left uncut at the inner side. Amputation of the Shoulder-Joint by Transfixion.—Lisfranc approved of this method, which Erichsen thus describes:—"A long narrow-bladed knife should be used. One assistant must have charge of the limb; another should raise the flap; and a third must follow the knife as it cuts behind the humerus and grasp the posterior flap %vith the axillary artery, so as to prevent ha3morrhage from this vessel. An assistant holding the arm away from the body, so as to relax the deltoid some- what, the knife, instead of being entered by a puncture, should make a small cross-cut, about an inch in extent, at the point at which transfixion is to be practised, so as to prevent that jagging of the integuments by the heel of the instrument which would otherwise occur. If the operation be on the right side, the surgeon staiids before the patient, and the point of the knife should be entered about an inch in front of the acromion (fig. 95), and being carried directly across the joint and capsule, should pass out at the posterior border of the axilla. If on the left side, the surgeon stands behind, and the point of the knife must be entered well behind the spine of the scapula, at the posterior border of the axilla, carried across the anterior aspect of the joint, and brought out to the inner side of the coracoid process. In either case, the large flap con- taining the deltoid muscle must then be cut with a sweep of the knife downwards, and, as soon as made, raised by another assistant. The heel of the knife is now to be laid on the head of the bone, the capsule of joint cut across, and the attachments of the muscles to the tuberosities divided. After the head of the bone has been turned out of the glenoid