56 WOUNDS. and thus allowing no dust or germ to reach the wound. Absorbent cotton IS a better preparation, as it quickly soaks up any discharge, and thus tends to promote drainage and to keep the wound's edges dry; but if it becomes soaked to its external surface by a copious discharge, it must be liable to become septic en masse.. Tenax or marine lint is harsh, and should therefore not be placed next to the wounded surface, but it forms a most useful outer covering. Suppurating Wounds.—If, when a wound comes under notice, it is already foul and suppurating, we must endeavour to destroy the causes of putrefaction which have gained admission, and to hinder the develop- ment of fresh organisms in it. This is to be accomplished by the use of one of the antiseptics, scraping away old granulation tissue by means of a Volkmann's spoon, free drainage, and in a large wound with cavities by irrigation with some antiseptic solution. Dry dressings have much to recommend them ; the surrounding skin is kept healthier and in better tone than by constant wet applications; the less watery the discharge the less danger of its putrefying. Then, again, a dressing should not be changed oftener than is absolutely necessary. If a wound has been purified by the chloride of zinc or other solution, and is rendered quite aseptic, there can be no object in changing a dressing unless discharge should have come through; but, on the other hand, if the discharge is decomposing it cannot be removed too quickly. When the wound is granulating the weak iDoracic acid ointment is one of the best dressings ; it need not be changed oftener than every two or three days. An elevated position of the part with good equable bandaging helps the healing process very considerably by favouring the weakened circulation. Poultices and water dressing favour in the highest degree the development of bacteria and consequently suppuration—they should never be used. Water, being the especial halDitat of bacteria, should not be used at any time for washing wounds. No probe, director, or, indeed, any instrument, should ever be intro- duced into any wound or sinus without first having been dipped in a solution of carbolic acid (1-20). It is a good plan to have a wide-mouthed bottle in the dressing-tray filled with this solution for this especial purpose. It is then always at hand, the use becomes a habit, and there is no unnecessary waste. Incised wounds should be thoroughly purified by the carbolic or mercuric solution ; the parts should then be brought together and maintained so by suture. If, however, the wound is very deep or extensive a drainage tube will probably be required ; the wound should then be covered with a dry absorbent antiseptic dressing, the part elevated, and a good equable bandage applied. Punctured wounds (such as maybe produced by a bayonet) of the soft parts are peculiarly liable to be the cause of septic inflammation in the neighbouring textures, followed by the formation and confinement of matter under the fascia, or to be the cause of injury to deep-seated vessels, and of subsequent haemorrhage. Should a foreign body be suspected, it should be searched for and removed, the wound should be well washed out with an antiseptic solution, a drainage tube in-