LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. 211 The Femoral Artery may be tied at the apex of Scarpa's triangle and in Hunter's canal, the former being the preferable and more usual operation. To tie the Femoral in Scarpa's triangle, the thigh is to be slightly flexed and abducted, the knee being bent, and in this position of the limb, a line drawn from about the middle of Poupart's ligament to the inner condyle of the femur, will mark the position of the upper part of the artery. An incision begun 2 inches below the groin and in the centre of the thigh, should be prolonged for 3 or 4 inches, and be carried through the fascia lata, so as to expose the sartorius crossing the lower part of the incision. A blunt hook being inserted at the inner edge of the fascia lata, the operator seeks the inner border of the sartorius, and turn the whole muscle outwards with his finger, when it is held aside by an assistant. Any small bleeding branch is now to be secured, when, if the incision has been properly made, and is not pulled out of position, the sheath of the artery will be readily seen at its lower part. The femoral sheath is to be carefully opened with knife and forceps, and especial pains taken to dissect well down to the true arterial coat on both the inner and outer sides of the vessel. The needle should be passed from within outwards. If the limb is not flexed and abducted, the incision will be made too much to the outer side. If the incision is too small, it is very difficult to displace the sartorius sufiiciently. No attempt should be made to pass the needle until the artery is thoroughly cleared, or the vein may be perforated. Should such an accident occur, the haemorrhage being controlled by pressure with the finger below the wound, the needle should be withdrawn, and separation of the vessels efl'ected higher up, when the artery being carefully tied, the haemorrhage from the vein will not recur. To tie the Femoral Artery in Hunter's Canal, the thigh is to be flexed and abducted as in the previous operation. An incision 3 to 4 inches in length is to be made in the middle third of the thigh parallel to the inner border of the limb, and about an inch from the margin of the gracilis. This incision may expose the saphenous vein which is to be avoided, and the fascia lata is to be divided so as to expose the sartorius, which will be recognised by the direction of its fibres running obliquely downwards and inwards. The outer edge of the divided fascia being held with a hook, the operator seeks the outer border of the sartorius, and turns the whole muscle inwards with his finger. The tendinous expansion thrown across the vessels from the adductors to the vastus internus must now be opened over the artery, which can generally be seen through it, and the artery carefully isolated, when the needle should be passed from without inwards, avoiding the saphenous vein. If the in- cision is below the middle third of the thigh, the canal will not be exposed, but the popliteal space will be opened. If the incision is put too far from the inner border of the thigh, the vastus internus will be exposed, and may be mistaken for the sartorius, but its fibres are coarser and run in the opposite direction. Posterior Tibial Artery in the leg may most certainly be reached when it lies between the superficial and deep muscles. The knee being