AMPUTATION. 156 'In the third place, under other return of consciousness to i)ain generally lags behind the return of mental perception, and thus anaes- thesia can easily be re-established without interrupting the operation. So marked is this fact towards the end of a prolonged operation, that sometimes the surgeon may continue to operate for ten minutes or a quarter^ of an hour without re-application of the inhaler, and even con- verse with his patient whilst stitching up a wound. This is hardly, or rarely, the case with chloroform." Local anaesthesia may be induced by freezing a part, either by the use of a freezing mixture, or by the rapid evaporation of ether from its surface. The former is managed by mixing some powdered ice and salt, and then applying it in a muslin bag until the skin is white and insensible, the latter by the use of Richardson's spray producer, which is a far more convenient form than the freezing mixture. Lately, the use of cocaine has been much recommended for producing local insensibility to jDain. Cocaine is an alkaloid obtained from the leaves of the Erythroxyton coca—its salt the hydrochlorate is soluble in water, and is used in a 4 per cent, and 2 per cent, solution. Mr. Hartridge says it is of considerable value as a local anaesthetic in disease of the cornea where photophobia is a prominent symptom, for the removal of foreign bodies from the cornea; in all operations affecting the cornea and conjunctiva only; in cases of cataract extraction where it is unde- sirable to give ether or chloroform. It is of little value in operations involving the skin unless injected into the skin itself and not under it. It has been used to produce anaesthesia of the larynx, pharynx, and other parts. In cases of supra-orbital neuralgia, a 10 or 20 per cent, solution in oil of cloves rubbed into the part, affords almost immediate relief. Its effects pass off in from 6 to 10 minutes. " It is a mydriatic and paralyzes the accommodation. Its aqueous solution is apt to grow fungi, and bad effects upon the eye have been attributed to these fungoid growths." Martindale. In some cases fainting and sickness with other toxic effects, as fixity of gaze, temporary visual defect with slight delirium, are reported as following its use for purposes of local anaesthesia; but the inhalation of nitrate of amyl quickly puts an end to them. AMPUTATION. Under this heading will first be considered the question as to the proper period for performing amputation for wounds requiring it in warfare ; secondly, cases demanding it; and, thirdly, the most approved methods of operating. Mr. Hennen remarks, in his work, 1818—"The propriety of amputation in the field being admitted, the question naturally suggests itself. What is the!proper period—instantly on receipt of the wound, or consecutively? The practical reply is, with as little delay as possible." Sir T. Longmore considers that, in respect to the particular time at which primary amputation is to be performed, the general practice of the