EXCISION. appliances may have to be extemporised, a long splint as shown in fig. 112 which IS similar to Enchsen's appliance, seems well adapted, and can be easily made. To secure rest, a certain amount of extending force, and the straightening of the limb, should be the surgeon's aim In treating a case of excision of the head of the femur at Netlev •'^'J^i^^T'^P*^'^*'^® stretcher and bed as represented in figs 114 115 The stretcher (fig. 114) consists of a substantial beech or ash fkme with handles and of such a size that, when placed on the mattress, the wood-work faUs over its sides, and does not come in the way of the patient's arms or the hands of the attendants. The canvas bottom is divided into five portions; the three centre are b or S inches wide ; these are attached to the framework on one side by means of straps and studs, and on the other by straps and buckles, by which they may be puUed tight. They are removable at will, and enable the surgeon or attendant to dress the wound when the stretcher has been Fig. 114. . raised. The canvas at the top and bottom of the stretcher may be secured by cords, or straps and buckles, so as to admit of being removed for cleaning. Two movable tressels have to be made for the stretcher to be placed upon when necessary. The advantages which this stretcher possesses are that, from the moment the patient is placed on it, he need not be disturbed, as by simply raising it, placing it on the tressels, and removing one of the strips of canvas, the wounds may be dressed and excreta removed. The patient may be carried from one room to another, or into the open air, without the least disturbance; and in the event of there being a bedsore, the stretcher may be placed on tressels for a short time, and the parts relieved from pressure. The Bed speaks for itself, as represented in fig. 115, the chief features in it being the firm foundation for the mattresses by having the bedstead boarded. The top mattress is divided into three portions, the centre one of which has a round hole 10 inches in diameter in its centre, into which the patient's nates fit. This centre piece may be removed to facilitate dressing, as represented in the illustration. Fig. 116 represents a crossbar arranged with straps and buckles at each