214 MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. v«5if- 'P?! -^^^ treatment of local traumatic gangrene resultmg solely from severe mjury, the parts should be removed so soon llSfJt unmistakable signs of its death, the point of operation being selected as near the mjured part as sound tissue can be obtained. But where the cause is due to defective power in the general circulation, con- sequent on a weak or diseased heart, with venous thrombosis, there can De no doubt that an immediate operation can be of no benefit to the patient, m as much as it can neither increase the power of the heart nor clear the obstructed vein, while the shock of the amputation and loss of . further depress the patient's vital powers." J he question of amputation from spreading traumatic gangrene the result ot inflammation is more complicated. The operation will cut off the supply of the infecting material, and the general experience of sur- geons is almost universally in favour of amputation, and if this be perlormed well above the gangrenous part as soon as the disease is recognised, and the stump protected by every antiseptic precaution against new infection, the patient will have a fair chance of recovery " * Mr. Gruthrie gives two or three examples of the practice in extreme cases :t A soldier is wounded by a musket-ball at the upper part of the middle third of the thigh, and on the third day the great toe has become of a tallowy colour, and has lost its life : what is to be done' Wait, with the hope that the mortification will not extend." "Suppose that the approaching mortification has not been observed until It has invaded the instep ; what is to be done? Wait, provided there are no constitutional symptoms ; but if they should be present, or the discoloration of the skin should appear to spread, amputation should be performed forthwith, for such cases rarely escape with life if it be not done. Where in such a case should the amputation be performed ? I formerly recommended that it should be done at the part injured in the thigh. I do not now advise it to be done there at an early period, when the foot only is implicated; but immediately below the knee, at that part where, if mortification ever stops, and the patient survives, it is usually arrested; for the knee is by this means saved, and the great danger attendant on an amputation at the upper third of the thigh is avoided. When from some cause or other amputation has not been' performed, and the mortification has stopped below the knee, it is re- commended to amputate above the knee after a line of separation has formed between the dead and the living. This should not be done. The amputation should be performed in the dead parts, just below the line of separation, in the most cautious and gentle manner possible ; the morti- fied parts which remain being allowed to separate by the efforts of nature." Gangrene from Frost-bite and Severe Burns.- Erichsen lays down the principle that there are two exceptions to the rule of amputating in traumatic gangrene before the occurrence of the line of demarcation, viz., gangrene from frost-bite, and that from severe bums. During the severe winter of 1854, when the allied armies were before Sevastopol, * Holmes' System of Surgery, voL i., Art. "Gangrene." t Guthrie's Commentaries, p. 25.