ii6 WOUNDS OF ORGANS OF MICTURITION. or hair, &c. These extraneous bodies can sometimes be extracted through the wound, and sometimes they are discharged by the natural channel; most frequently, however, they remain, become encrusted with pihos- phatic deposits, and have to be removed by operation. The only pathognomic sign of wound of the bladder is the escape of urine by the artificial opening, pain, frequent micturition, and bloody urine are uncertain signs. Urinary infiltration, followed by se])tic poison- ing, is the cause of death in a large proportion of cases ; if the urine gains access to the peritoneal cavity, diffuse peritonitis is likely to be the result; if it permeates the pelvic fascia, sloughing and diffuse suppuration will follow. Every effort should be made to prevent urinary infiltration; if the wound were from a stabbing or cutting instrument, and it was believed that the wound was of an intra-peritoneal character, an abdominal section should be undertaken with a view of suturing the vesical wound and of flushing the peritoneum with warm weak boric water. In any case the attempt should be made to restore the passage of the urine by the natural channel, to prevent distension of the injured organ, and to evacuate blood and other foreign matter accumulated in its cavity. Puncture of the Bladder.—The surgeon is sometimes called upon to l^erform this operation for retention of urine consequent on injuries of the urethra. Mr. Cock's method, per rectum, is the most simple, and is as follows—"The patient is to be placed and held in the position for lithotomy, and brought well to the edge of the bed. The operator is then to introduce the index finger of the left hand intf) the rectum with the palm upwards, and to feel for the prostate, and, if possible, for the bulging base of the tense bladder beyond it, some little pressure above the pubes may help in this attempt. The pulpy point of the index finger is then to be held in the median line, just below the spot at which the puncture is to be made. The surgeon, with his right hand, is then to take from his assistant the canula, well oiled, and fitted with the blunt pilot trochar, and introduce it into the rectum upon his left index finger, passing it well up to the point selected for puncture. He is then to steady the canula and hold it firmly in position with the thumb and three outer fingers of the left hand, and withdraw the blunt trochar. The sharp trochar is then to be introduced through the canula> and ha.vmg reached its end, the handle with the canula is to be depressed and then driven home in a direction upwards and forwards, in a bne towards the umbilicus. The trochar should then be withdrawn, and the canula pressed well home and secured. A plug may be placed in the canula to retain the urine." . ,. , i The operation of Uthotomv may be requu-ed m war tune for the removal of bullets or f)ther missiles from the bladder. The operation (lateral) is thus described by Sir W. rergusson-"The point of the blade of the scalpel should be entered about If inch in front of the anus, about a hne s breadth to the left of the raphe, pushed through the skm, and carried hy a kind of sawing motion down the left side of the perineum, about ly mcU beyond the anus, the middle of the incision being at equal distances trom the latter part and tuberosity. Next, the blade should run along the