WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. 91 If he examines the chest he will find it enlarged on the injured side, and I the intercostal spaces bulging out. There will be dulness in proportion to the amount of the cavity filled up, and no respiratory murmur, the I lung being i^ressed down. Ecchymosis is laid down as a symptom or sign of effusion of blood ! within the chest at a late period. Valentine considers it to be a pathog- I nonionic sign of effusion of blood. He says—"It is very dissimilar to that which occurs after a blow or wound, and which takes place shortly after the accident, being around the wound if there be one, and extending I from it. The patient also complains of pain when the bruised part is : pressed by the fingers. These characters are not observed in the I ecchymosis attending effusion, which always takes place near the angles : of the lower or false ribs, descending towards the loins. Its colour is identical with that which appears on the abdomen of persons some time after death—a bright violet [violet tres-tdairci). It appears about ten days after the receipt of the injury—sometimes later." Should the blood come through the external wound, the diagnosis is simple enough. Treatment of Haemorrhage into Cavity of Chest.—It now becomes a matter of serious consideration what is the best line of treatment for this form of haemorrhage ; but before taking it for granted that it is coming from the lungs, an endeavour should be made to try and discover if the intercostal or internal mammary arteries have been wounded. And as a guide to this, it has been remarked that when there is internal haemor- rhage from the latter sources, the symptoms are more gradual than if the blood comes direct from the lungs or pulmonary arteries. In the event of the haemorrhage coming from mammary or intercostal arteries, an attempt should be made to tie these vessels, or otherwise close them, for which purpose various plans have been proposed, some of which may be mentioned here :— Pass a curved needle armed with a ligature completely round the rib, and compress the wounded artery by means of a pledget placed over the orifice and included in the ligature. Sir T. Longmore describes " Desault's purse," which is a mode of compression, and is as follows :—" Place a piece of linen on that part of the chest at the wound. The middle portion of the linen is pressed by the finger into the wound, so as to form a kind of pouch. This pouch is then distended with sponge or lint pushed into it, till it arrests the bleed- ing. On stretching out the corners of this linen cloth, the pressure of the plug win be increased. The whole may be secured to the chest by a roller or l^andage." This method Porter used with the most perfect and permanent success, adding to the lmt or sponge a little of the solution of perchloride of iron. _Mr._ Guthrie considers that wounds of the intercostal arteries rarely give rise to haemorrhage so as to require a special operation for suppression- but whenever it does so happen, the wound should be enlarged, so as to show the bleeding orifice, which should be secured by one ligature if distinctly open, and by two if the vessel should only be partially divided, ihe vessel is sometimes so small as to be easily twisted, or its end suffi- ciently bruised as well as twisted, to arrest the haemorrhage.