125 WOUNDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. Shot Wounds of the Metacarpal Bones.—When the metacarpal bones are injured, that is, splintered, the wound should be enlarged and the fragments removed, taking care that the tendons are not injured or interfered with, if untouched by the missile. Generally speaking, the extensor and flexor tendons are injured, the result being stiffness of the fingers to which they belong. Guthrie recommends that, when one or more fingers are destroyed, and the metacarpal bones injured, they are to be sawn or cut off but not removed at the carpus, although an opening into the joint of the carpus will generally do well, if skin can be saved to cover it. In all cases of amputation of one or more fingers, the meta- carpal bones, if injured, should be left as long as possible, and particularly that of the index finger when the thumb remains. Shot Wounds of the Fingers.—The phalanges may be broken, when, if in a single finger, a splint composed of wood, gutta-percha, or other suitable material, should be placed on the palmar surface of the entire length of the finger, a piece of lint, cotton wool, or other soft texture being first laid against the skin. If several fingers are broken, the splint should cover the whole palmar surface, the wrist-joint being left free. Incised Wounds of the Forearm and Wrist.—The hand, wrist, and forearm are hable to sword-cuts, which frequently injure the bones or joints. It is seldom necessary to do more than close the wounds, and support the parts by suitable splints, after all divided tendons and nerves have been accurately approximated by catgut sutures. Gun-shot Fractures of the Lower Extremities are far more dangerous and serious than those of the upjjer; and as to fracture of the femur, either simple or compound, it will, on active service in the field, cause the surgeon grave anxiety, and perplex him as to the best measures he can adopt, for opinions vary much on this subject. Shot Fractures of the Femur.—An imijortant question for the con- sideration of the army surgeon is—What is best to be done for severe gun-shot fracture of the thigh with an army on the move, as transporting a sufferer with such an injury is a very serious matter? Stromeyer is of opinion that it is best to leave the sufferer in captivity. Esmarch is, doubtless, of the same opinion, as, during the Holstein War, he entrusted such wounded to the enemy, rather than allow them to suffer from transport. There are, unfortunately, occasions where it is not possible to carry out this excellent advice of Dr. Stromeyer, which in European warfare, and under the privileges of the (Geneva Convention, should be adhered to. But supposing the contest is with savage tribes, as has lately occurred with the British forces in the Soudan, that the distance is considerable to a permanent hospital, that the roads are bad, and transport indifferent, what, then, should be the course of action ? During the Ashantee expedition, 1874, a soldier of the 42nd Highlanders experienced a simple shot fracture of the right femur at Amoaful, and by means of a long side splint was safely carried to the port of embarkation; and during the Perak expedition, 1875, two soldiers of the 10th Regiment had the lower third of the right femur fractured, but without com- minution. Both were safely transported with the aid of ordinarj' splints. But a patient suffering from a severe gun-shot fracture of the middle