WOUNDS OF JOINTS. t Science and Art of Surgery, Erichsen, 8tli Kditiou. of S*hi 95-6^' W'^'^e non-antiseptic, 22 died-percentage In his primary antiseptic cases, Reyher either washed out the wound if small, with an antiseptic solution, removed any foreign body present' drained and treated it by a dry gauze dressing; if, however, the apertures were large, and splinters of bone had to be removed, he carried out Lister's treatment with all details of gauze, spray, &c. ; or, he did not wash out the wound at all, but simply contented himself with purifyin" the exterior, and applying an antiseptic dressing. The former practice was adopted when the wound was gaping, and when there was a suspicion that portion of the clothing, &c., had been carried in with the bullet: the latter practice, where the edges of the skin were lying together, and where it was thought that the buUet had not carried any extraneous matters in with it. Bergmann also got some remarkable results. He had 15 cases of fresh gun-shot wounds of the knee-joint after the storming of Telisch and Gorni-Dubnik. These were all treated by careful cleansing of the skin by a carbolic solution, and then applying masses of salicylated wool, and over all a plaster of Paris bandage. Of these 14 recovered, 2 after amputation, and 1 died. —Cheyiie* Sir T. Longmore sums up from all the experience gained regarding gun-shot wounds oi the knee-joint, that when the damage is slight, and early immobilisation and antiseptic treatment can be carried out, con- servative treatment should be adopted. When, however, these cannot be obtained, and when the patients are liable to be moved frequently, or to long distances, hurriedly and without adequate protection, and when the injury is excessive, amputation above the joint is the only remedy. " In all cases in which antiseptic treatment is impossible, conservative treatment contrasts most unfavourably with primary amputation in the lower third of the thigh. When amputation is determined on, the operation requires to be performed early, and this necessity for early amputation in penetrating bullet wounds of the knee-joint when anti- septic treatment is impossible, is recognised by all modern military sur- geons."—Erichsen. t Excision of the knee-joint is an operation which should not be at- tempted unless under the most advantageous circumstances; when every possible care and attention can be given to the after-treatment; when the patient can have good air and diet, and every appliance that the surgeon may require, together with absolute rest. These circumstances are not likely to exist in the field, though they may be available in the stationary hospitals in European warfare. If an attempt be made to save the limb without operation, the joint should be thoroughly washed out by a 1-20 carbolic, or other antiseptic lotion; thorough drainage either by tubes or fresh incisions, and the envelopment of the whole joint in salicylated or mercurialised cotton wool is required, and the limb should be immobilised on a splint. But if, from the nature of the injury, an operation is deemed necessary, the safest course to adopt is to amputate at the lower third of the thigh, * Aiiliseptic Su7'gery.