124 WOUNDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. other, and broad enough to encircle one-third of the circumference of the arm By mouldmg or otherwise fitting the upper part of the splint over the top of the shoulder, it will be prevented from becoming displaced tooTghtYy ■ ««"siders that bandages have, as a rule, been appUed Injury of the head of humerus {vide " Injury of Joints ") Shot Fractures of the Clavicle.-As in fractures of the long bones detached splmters should be immediately extracted. Excision of the clavicle for shot injury is seldom, if ever, called for Shot Fractures of the Scapula.-Bleeding should be arrested, J^orelgn bodies of detached structures should be removed, and the ijarts kept at rest by supporting the arm. Burrowing of pus in the dorsal and lumbar regions is a very common complication in these injuries, from the extension of septic inflammation. Shot Fractures of the Radius and Ulna.-The radius or ulna may receive extensive injuries from bullets or fragments of shells, the rule of treatment for such injuries being to remove fragments of bones or splmters, and place the arm on a suitable splint with a view to union taking place ; at the same time, passive motion should be adopted early to prevent the bones uniting with one another, thereby rendering pro- nation and supination imperfect. When both bones are extensively broken, the soft parts lacerated, and vessels and nerves damaged, which often occurs from a bullet passing through both bones across the arm, amputation should be performed, but every endeavour should be made to save a forearm which is well supplied with blood; mortification i.s consequently not likely to take place. In the event of amputation being necessary, the surgeon should be careful to leave as long a stump as possible, to which a mechanical contrivance can be attached. Hamilton suggests that in case both bones are broken, the patient ought to be kept in the recumbent position on the back, with the forearm resting upon a pillow supported by a board, extended and supinated. No attempt should be made to lengthen the limb by apparatus, but daily attention should be given to the position of the bones, and, as far as possible, they should be kept in line. Shot Wounds of the Hand.—In wounds of the hand, as little as possible of the injured parts should be removed, and, above all, the value of the thumb or a finger should be carefully considered in any operative measures. In extensive wounds from cannon-shot, or fragments of shell, amputation of the hand may be necessary; but wounds from buUets generally damage one or two metacarpal bones, or may pass between two, only injuring the soft parts. There may be very troublesome hemorrhage from wounds of the palm of the hand; this is best arrested by freelj^ exposing the bleeding vessel by enlarging the wound, boldly clearing away all coagula, and applying a graduated compress, this should be regularly and methodically done, and the hand well raised, but should this fail by the hand swelling and threatening to become gangrenous, the radial and ulnar arteries will have to be tied above the wrist.