221 ERYSIPELAS. total disuse of sponges, cleanliness among the patients, attendants, clothing, and bedding, evacuation of infected buildings, and fumigation of them. The sufferer will have to be considered with respect to local and con- stitutional symptoms. For the former, the careful and strict use of the most potent antiseptics such as corrosive sublimate lotion, iodoform, &c., is required, but if these should fail then all sloughs should be removed as far as possible, and an antesthetic having been administered, the parts should be thoroughly swabbed out by a caustic such as nitric acid, acid nitrate of mercury, pure carbolic acid, chloride of zinc, &c. Professor von Nussbaum, of Munich, testifies as to the great benefit to be derived from practising Lister's antiseptic dressings in the treatment of this affection. He writes—" Hospital gangrene had got the upper hand to such an extent that 80 per cent, of all wounds and ulcers were attacked, and after five years' experience he states that any recent wound treated by this method is guaranteed against pyaemia, hospital gangrene, erysipelas, &c."—Glieyne* Professor Vollonann, of HaUe, gives a similar experience, he had an unhealthy hospital, yet upon adopting Listerian dressings, infective dis- eases which were attacking every patient disappeared at once.—Cheyne. Blackadder recommends the use of Fowler's solution of arsenic as an escharotic; he found that it answered well in arresting the progress of the disease at Passages and at Antwerp, Constitutional Treatment will consist in giving whatever food and stimulants the patient can take and digest, combined with quinine, opium, ammonia, &c. ERYSIPELAS. Erysipelas belongs to the infective class of disease. It frequently attacks sick and wounded in civil and military hospitals, it is un- doubtedly contagious. Pehleisen saysf it is due to the growth of micro-organisms in the tissues which he named the streptococcus erysipela- tosus; the streptococci extend into the lymph spaces and canals of the skin, and he has produced erysipelas in man by the inoculation of the cultivated specimens of streptococci, but has never been able to discover them in the blood-vessels in true erysipelas. He denies that the strepto- coccus of erysipelas possesses pyogenic properties; but when suppuration takes place, as in phlegmonous erysipelas, it is due to the presence of another pyogenic streptococcus. Infection most frequently occurs through accidental or intentional wounds, however insignificant they may be. Experiments have shown that the time of incubation is from fifteen to sixty-one hours. Infection may also take place through a mucous surface as well as through the skin. Erysipelas has generally been arranged in three divisions—"(1) The * Antiseptic Surgery. t " Micro-Parasites in Disease," New Sydenham Society, 1886.