EXCISION. Mr. Marsh advises in disease of children a straight incision 2 or 3 inches in length to be made from the apex of the great trochanter obliquely in the direction of the fibres of the glutei, and extending down to the back of the joint. The capsule, if still present, is then opened, the situation of the neck of the femur or its remains is ascertained, the bone is divided with a saw or cutting forceps and the fragment is removed. The floor of the acetabulum is then carefully explored and any sequestra that are detected are extracted. The section of the femur should next be examined ; it may, in rare cases, be necessary to .cut away the great trochanter. Such a step, however, so largely interferes with the future usefulness of the limb that it should be if possible avoided. An interrupted long splint, or weight extension (3 lbs. or so) is employed to steady it with the aid of sand-bags.* The anterior incision of Liicke and Schede is made on the outer side of the crural nerve beginning a little below and half an inch internal to the anterior-superior spine of the ilium and passing vertically downward 4 or 5 inches. The internal border of the sartorius is first exposed, then the rectus and the outer border of the ileo-psoas muscle. The limb is now flexed, abducted, and rotated outwards, the sartorius and rectus muscles are drawn to the outer side, the psoas and iliacus muscles to the inner, and the capsule thus exposed is incised ; the subsequent steps being similar to those in other operations.—AlacCorniac. In gun-shot injuries, however, it will be necessary to vary the steps of the operation according to the peculiar features of the case; if there were a large wound behind, no surgeon would dream of operating by the anterior one of Liicke, and vice versa. It is an operation that should never be imdertaken lightly in the field hospitals on account of the extreme difficulty of the after-treatment, and it may be perhaps an open question if such an operation had not better be postponed and undertaken as a secondary one in the stationary or base hospitals. Fig. 113. Many splmts have been designed for the after-treatment of excision of the head of the femur. For permanent hospitals, Mr. Sayer's splint (wire breeches t) is perhaps the best; but for field hospitals, where * Disease of Joints, p. 322. \ Biiiinh MedicalJournal, July, 1871.