AMPUTATION. 173 * Holmes' System of Surgery^ vol. iii. flap. The former method, however, should only be chosen when the long anterior flap is impossible. The operation by means of a long anterior and a short posterior flap is thus performed :—" A long square flap rounded at the corners, is made by dissecting up the integuments and the patella from the front of the joint. The articulation is thus opened ; the ligaments are then divided, and a short posterior flap formed by cutting from within outwards. "The management of the patella is an important question. Erichsen thinks it is decidedly better to leave than to remove this bone; and to prevent it being drawn up on the anterior part of the thigh, the flap should be turned up, and the tendinous insertion of the quadriceps divided. The cartilaginous surface of the femur in these amputations may be sawn off if it is unhealthy." Garden's Amputation at the Condyles of the Femur.—"The operator standing on the right side of the limb, seizes it between;his left forefinger and thumb at the spot selected for the base of the flap, and enters the point of the knife close to his finger, bringing it round through the skin and fat below the patella to the spot pressed by his thumb ; then turning the edge downwards at a right angle with the line of the limb, he passes it through the spot where it first entered, cutting outwards through everything behind the bone. The flap is then reflected, and the re- mainder of the soft parts divided straight down to the bone ; the muscles are then slightly cleared upwards, and the saw is applied." Fio'. 102 represents the outline of the incision, and fig. 103 the stump. Mr. Garden lays great stress on the f<ill()wing points :—" Whilst tying the popliteal artery in this situation; there is a tendency to secondary haemorrhage from the vein, in consequence of its close proximity to the artery. This occurred in two cases, and on re-openiug-of the stumps the closure of the vein was found to be prevented by the stroke of the artery. The vessels should be gently separated for an inch upwards. The dressing maybe of the lightest and sim|.ilest kind, and it is of the greatest importance that they should be loosened and the stump examined early." In performing this amputation, it should be remembered that nowhere does the skin retract so much as at the back of the knee-joint, and therefore full allowance must be made for it. * "Amputation of the Leg maybe performed either just below the