SEPTICAEMIA. 226 unless the se|-)tic fluids are pent up in contact with it at some degree of pressiire. The condition necessary for its rapid absorption would be found in all recent wounds, the raw surfaces of which, before they are covered by healthy granulation tissue, form one of the most active absorbing surfaces conceivable. The poison does not multiply in the body, and, according to Koch, no organisms are found in the blood of animals suffering from septic intoxication. " This form of sepsis may be caused by any microbes, otherwise harmless, or only with slight pathogenic properties, as the bacilli of putrefaction, which cause putre- faction in any dead tissue and the symptoms arise as the ptomaines are absorbed, and are proportionate to the amount absorbed and subside with the cessation of absorption and their elimination through some of the excretory organs-"* The term septic intoxication is used to express the condition when a sufficient quantity of the poison has been absorbed within a few days of the injury or operation to endanger life. The milder effects of the same poison are classed as traumatic fever, and the continued absorption of small quantities over a long period produces the condition termed septicemia. _ Septicaemia is also applied to the condition due to septic infection, as distinct from septic poisoning. This is a true infective process, started m the organism by the introduction through a wound of some pathogenic micro-organisms which multiply in the body, and produce effects which are not directly proportional to the dose. Chej'ne writesf —'' Continued absorption of the poisonous material from wounds will keep up a feverish state, with all the symptoms of septicemia. In other cases micrococci grow in the tissues of the wounds, and pour their products or ptomaines into the blood. Here micrococci may be found in the blood, but the essential seat of disease is in the tissues. In a third form, micrococci grow in the blood, and multiplying there give rise to the symptoms. In a fourth form, organisms grow in the blood, but they belong to the class bacilli." "The symptoms of septic poisoning and septic infection are very similar, and difficult, if not impossible, to distinguish clinically, a chill or rigor on the second day, followed by feverishness, headache, loss of appetite, a quick pulse, a dry furred tongue, and delirium at night. On the third day after the injury, some disturbance of the alimentary tract sets in, vomiting is common, but diarrhoea is not frequent. In very acute cases syinptoras of collapse quickly set in, the pulse becomes rapid, feeble, and irregular, the tongue dry and brown, and the lips covered with sordes ; the temperature falls, consciousness is lost, and the patient may become comatose before death. DyspncEa is a common symptom during the last day. The skin may assume a yellowish tint and purpuric spots appear, and the body evolve a sickly odour. The urine sometimes contains albumen." "Post-mortem Appearances.--In extremely acute cases the signs of decomposition set in early, and the cutaneous veins mark the surface. Rigor mortis is often fully marked, the blood is often imperfectly coagu- * Surgical Bacteriology, Senu. u t Antiseptic Treatment of Wounds, p. 23.