i8i EXCISION. each flap being carefully retained in connection with the superjacent muscular and other soft parts. EXCISION, Cheyne remarks—*" Excision of joints is now rarely performed, for with aseptic treatment an incision into a joint and the insertion of a drainage tube is generally sufficient in cases where formerly excision, or even amputation, would have been required." Esmarch writes— " Since regeneration of a joint is generally most complete when only one articular end is removed, it is advisable, if the injury to one articular end is very extensive, only to resect this and to leave the other intact. This is particularly true of the upper extremity." The above remarks apply to excision of joints in disease for the most part of youth, but the operation has much greater risks and difficulties in the case of gun-shot injuries in the field. Excision of the Head of the Humerus.—This operation may be per- formed in several different ways ; they consist of a single vertical incision, and its modifications of p and ~|" shaped ones ; also the flap operation of shape. Larrey recommended the single long incision, extending in a line from the acromion, through the fibres of the deltoid, for about 4 or 5 inches. This operation is thus described :—"The patient lies on the side opposite to the affected or injured limb. The surgeon then enters the knife a little to the outside of the coracoid process, and carries it downwards and outwards for about 5 inches, cutting down to the bone. He then cuts across the capsule any adhesions that may exist, and the attachments of the muscles inserted into the tubercles of the humerus. The assistant, who has charge of the limb, facilitates this part of the operation by drawing it well across the chest, and pushing the head of the bone backwards and tilting it outwards, so as to cause it to project. The surgeon, carefully clearing it all round, has the soft parts well re- tracted, and then, taking the limb in liis own hands, pushes the head of the bone out of the wound, so as to admit of the easy application of the saw by which it is removed." Mr. Hamilton remarks on this subject:—*• In gun-shot or other com- minuted fractures of the head of the humerus, demanding ex section, the surgeon will find it necessary, in general, to make for himself a larger opening than the single longitudinal incision will furnish. It will be necessary, then, to make an oval or ^^-shaped incision, so as to form a flap, having its base upwards." Sir William Fergusson is of opinion that the surgeon should not limit himself to one mode of procedure, but should rather, trusting to his ana- tomical and manipulative skill, adapt his measures to the peculiarities of the case. He recommends the adoption of a plan similar to that originally * Antiseptic Surgery.