SERVICE IN THE FIELD. 31 he has time and opportunity to bring more elaborate materials to the Wounded to toe first relieved.—At the Collecting and Dressmg Stations the Surgeon will have to afford assistance to the wounded as they are brought to him, but should he be in a position to make a selection those suffering from hsemorrhage should receive his first consideration, while those otherwise wounded should have warm drinks or stimulants administered, and with consolation and a few kind words they will be in a more comfortable position and better able to bear the pain of having their wounds dressed when their turn comes. Hsemorrhage.—The expedients for arresting hsemorrhage are con- sidered under the subject heading " Hsemorrhage." Shock.—The constitutional disturbance which takes place on a man being wounded is described as shock. This differs in severity in dif- ferent subjects being influenced by moral character, intelligence, state of health, and nature of wound. It has also been stated that conical bullets from a rifle cause greater shock than round. As a rule, the greater the injury the more intensified the shock. At the same time there are examples of very severe wounds and but little shock, and vice versa. Mr. Guthrie mentions a case of a soldier at Talavera, who was strack on the head by a 12-pound shot, which drove some bone into and some brain out of his head. He was walking about complaining but little immediately after the accident, although he died sub- sequently. Porter says—"My experience is that all wounded persons suffer to a greater or lesser extent from shock, which mani- fests itself in feebleness of pulse, cold perspiration, change of colour, and dis- quietude of mind ; the more aggravated form, where large joints are injured, long bones fractured or cavities opened, being fainting, mental agony, loss of reason, convulsions, hiccup, vomiting, irregular chills, sense of weight, collapse, all of which are most unfavourable symptoms, and their continuance sufficient to cause great alarm." Th e treatment will consist in consider- ing whether any surgical proceeding is necessary with a view of checking any internal haemorrhage ; but if no such step js demanded, nor appears practicable, we can only administer con- solation or encouragement, with cordials, beef tea, wine, or brandy. In severe cases the patient should be placed in the recumbent position, with warm bottles or bricks to the feet; friction should be applied to the