AMPUTATION. as may be most convenient, the same grasp enabling him to raise the flap as soon as it is completed. The flap being raised, the Po^^*.^^ ^^f.^^^^^^^ should then be struck against the head of the bone, so as to divide the anterior part of the capsular ligament and any textures m this sitiiation which may not have been included in the flap. To facilitate this part of the operation, the knee should be forcibly depressed by the assistant who holds it; the head of the bone will thus be caused to start out of its socket and if the round ligament is not ruptured by the force, a slight touch with the edge of the knife will cause it to give way At this period, depression being no longer required, the assistant should bring the head of the femur a little forward to allow the knife to be slipped oyer and behind it; and when it is in this position, it should then be carried down- wards and backwards, so as to form a flap shorter than that in front, tiie last cut in the skin completing the separation of the limb. Mr Furneaux Jordan first divides the soft parts circularly lo\y down in the thigh, and then dissects out the bone from among the muscles and from the acetabulum through a long incision on the outer aspect of the limb, when the soft parts are comparatively thm and the blood-vessels inconsiderable, a long boneless stump being the result. Sir Jos. Lister ^ites—* "It does not seem to me necessary to push it to the extreme degree advocated by Mr. Jordan, I would advise the following as the method to be generally adopted:— , . i i. " ' Supposing the right limb operated upon, the knife is entered at the posterior part of the great trochanter and carried down longitudinally for about 8 inches (if the patient be an adult male), and then drawn across the limb in honi and behind through the skin and fat, in the form of two crescentic incisions, which meet at the inner side of the limb at a point an inch or two lower down than the extremity of the outer longitu- dinal cut. The semi-lunar flaps mapped out by the crescentic incisions are then dissected up as in a modified circular operation, the integument being raised about 2 inches higher than their angle of union at the inner side of the thigh, after which the muscles are divided when they are exposed and the head of the b(me dissected out; or the femur may be sawn off below the trochanters, and then the head seized with strong forceps and dissected out.'" " Such a mode of operating, besides the diminished danger from shock, has the great advantage of making truly aseptic treatment easy, instead of almost impossible, as it is when the copious sero-sanguineous dis- charge, which takes place from so large a wound, is poured out within a very few inches of the anus, which is the case after the ordinary operation. After the operation which I have advised, the inner end of the wound having been closely stitched, and drainage tubes introduced at its outer part, there is sufficient space for an effective antiseptic dressing, and which will often be a matter of life and death where so large an extent of irritable and absorbent surface is concerned." Mr. Marsh writes—" The advantages of the Eurneaux-Jordan opera- tion are, that haemorrhage is much more easily prevented from the offsets of the internal iliac which bleed so freely when divided in the transfixion ♦Holmes' t^yslem of Surgery, vol. iii.