21 SERVICE IN THE FIELD. transactions in Army Book, 39, and beyond this, to furnish no returns or reports unless specially called for. His duty is to see m the farst instance all men reporting sick, to afford temporary aid to sick and wounded in camp, on line of march, and in action, to prevent mahngering or accumulation of sick in front. When an action is expected,_he should obtain the services of the trained regimental stretcher-bearers in the pro- portion of two per company who are ordered to be placed at his disposal, Q.E., 1889, place a corporal in charge of the field panniers, and then afford such temporary aid to the wounded as may be within his power, but neither he nor his bearers should on any account lose touch of their corps. First line of medical assistance is formed by the Bearer Companies. The carriages of the regimental transport of a Bearer Company form a portion of its war establishment. The officer commanding is responsible for their efficiency in the same manner as for other details of his com- mand; he obtains them from the O.S.D. Woolwich Arsenal on requisi- tion. It is now ordered that, when a force proceeds to its destination by sea, the transport and stores are to accompany the troops. The officer commanding the Bearer Company is responsible to the P.M.O. at the base for the arms, accoutrements, clothing, and neces- saries of the men, and will account to the O.S.D. for the equipment and stores of the company in Field Equipment Ledger Army Book, 248. Two companies are provided for a Division, and eight for an Army Corps, so that one company will be attached to a Brigade. They are to be associated with and encamped near the field hospitals, so that they can afford every assistance to the sick and wounded, and furnish tlie necessary guards, but their organisation is to be kept quite distinct. When an action is expected, the medical officer, under direction of the P.M.O. of the Division, will arrange suitable " collecting rendezvous " and "dressing stations ;" the former should, if possible, be under shelter but as close as is convenient to the fighting line, and the latter out of fire. In action the company is divided thus : Two stretcher sections under one surgeon, each section consisting of one sergeant and sixteen privates, will be sent to succour and collect the wounded bringing them to the Collecting Station, where one sergeant will be posted with a field companion in his charge. Five corporals and five jDrivates are attached to the ambulance wagons, which, as they are loaded, should be sent off under charge of a N.C.O. or pi-ivate to the Dressing Station, and as soon as they are unladened they should return to the Collecting Station. At the Dressing Station, which should Ije marked by two red flags, or by two red lanterns at night, the senior medical officer -with another surgeon, the sergeant-major, compounder, one sergeant, one bugler, one corporal, and four privates (one cook), will be assembled with the surgical equipment, stores, and water carts. If any building is available, full use should be made of it; if not, the tent must be pitched ; beef tea, &c., should be got ready and everything put in readiness that can afford aid to the wounded coming in, and help during the pressure of work. Medical officers should be borrowed from the nearest field hospital. After the wounded are dressed, and a taUy ticket attached to each man's