Wounds of joints. only course is to excise the parts within the first twenty-four hours if possible, and, therefore, the first examination should be most carefully conducted with the finger, so that accurate knowledge may be acquired of the exact nature of the injury. Antiseptic treatment, however im- portant and valuable, will not suffice without an operation in a case of this kind if the one factor rest is wanting. Amputation at the Hip joint for gun-shot wounds, notwithstanding its great mortality, cannot be altogether discarded. Mr. Guthrie laid it down as a principle that in all cases of accident, whether from shot, shell, or railway carriage, no man should suffer amputation at the hip-joint, when the thigh bone is entire. Cases requiring it are those in which a wound of the artery is accompanied by a fracture of the femur, or in the event of the principal artery being wounded during the course of treatment, or its not being possible to saw the bone through immediately below the trochanter major, and when sufficient flaps cannot be preserved to close the wound thus made. The following rules as regards amputation at the hip-joint, which are laid down by Mr. Otis, appear highly practical—(1) When the thigh is torn off, or the upper extremity of the femur comminuted with great laceration of the soft parts, in such proximity to the trunk that amputa- tion in continuity is impracticable; (2) when a fracture of the head, neck, or trochanters of the femur is complicated with a wound of the femoral vessels ; (3) when a gun-shot fracture involving the hip is complicated by a severe compound fracture of the limb lower down, or by a wound of the knee-joint. There are two other possible contingencies under which primary or early intermediate coxofemoral amputations for injury may be admissible—(1) When, without fracture, a ball divides the femoral artery and vein near the crural arch ; (2) when a gtm-shot fracture in the trochanteric region is so complicated by extensive longitudinal fissuring as to preclude excision. Langenbeck, in referring to the dangers of ampiitation at the hip-joint, gives as a prime cause the lateness at which the operation is usually per- formed after receipt of the injury. He considers it should not be done during the period of infiltration, or after pyemic or septicjemic symptoms have appeared, but that the proper period is in the course of the first twelve to twenty-four hours. If, however, the right moment for ampu- tation is neglected, resection is admissible as the only means of saving life, with a view to amputation being performed later on, when the patient is under more favourable circumstances. Symptoms of Gun-shot Fractures of the Hip-joint.—With complete separation of the head or of the neck of the femur, the symptoms are the same as fractures of the neck of the thigh in civil practice. Discharge of synovia is represented as being absent more frequently than present; this is peculiarly remarkable in wounds that go direct into the joint from the groin, but not with those where the wound aperture lies further back ; the absence of synovia, however, does not prove that the hip joint is uninjured. Langenbeck lays do%vn as one distinct sign the swelling of the articular capsule by blood and synovia, ichor and pus, which is most plainly witnessed in the neighbourhood of the groin, where