HEMORRHAGE. 196 If such an accident be recognised, the arterial trunk should be tied above and below the injury without delay, though there be no haemorrhage Punctured Wounds of Arteries.-Guthrie recommends "that in all cases of punctured wounds, when pressure can be effectually made, and especially against a bone, it should l)e tried in a graduated manner over the part injured, in the course of the artery above and below the wound." But pressure of various kinds, as by the finger, graduated compress, &c., can only be considered as temporary expedients. The rule to be followed in all cases where the nature of the injury is clearly recognised, and the artery at all accessible, is to enlarge the wound sufficiently and tie the artery above and below the puncture, dividing its continuity between the bwo ligatures so as to allow both eads to retract. Diffused traumatic aneurism may be the result of a wounded or rup- tured artery ; the blood is poured out into the surrounding tissue, but is limited in its extent by coagulation and pressure of the neighbouring parts. There is no sac. The treatment in these cases is to lay open the tumour, remove coagula, and ligature the vessel above and below the wound in it. Circumscribed traumatic aneurism may be induced in two ways from wounds of arteries:— First: A vessel having received a puncture, the external wound heals, the blood is extravasated into the neighbouring tissue ; this becomes dense and firm, is surrounded by layers of fibrine, and from continued pulsation a sac is formed. This form of aneurism is liable to occur in punctured wound of the palmar, radial, ulnar, and temporal arteries. The treatment should be, if a small artery, to lay the tumour open, remove coagula, and ligature the artery above and below the seat of injury. It may, however, be necessary to tie the main trunk in the event of the vessel being very large, which should be done close to the sac. The second form of circumscribed aneurism may be induced from a similar wound, as above, but both external wound and woimd of artery heal, the cicatrix of the latter becomes weak and gradually dilates from the pulsations ; or it may be produced by a bullet bruising the artery and weakening its coats. A tumour is formed which may attain a consider- able size. This form of aneurism is more likely to occur in large arteries, such as the axillary, femoral, and carotid. The treatment recommended is to try and consolidate the tumour by pressure on the main trunk. If this does not succeed, the vessel may be ligatured at the tumour, or it may be necessary to ligature the main artery at a distance from the sac. Should .the sac be very large and likely to give way, or should it give way, the practice recommended is to lay it open, turn out coagula, and ligature the artery above and below the wound. Treatment of Secondary Hsemorrhage after Ligature of Femoral Artery in Continuity.*—Ligature of external iliac as a remedy is con- demned, and pressure is strongly recommended, the best method for which is as follows :—The limb should be carefully bandaged with a moderate amount of tightness from the toes to above the knee. Along the course * St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, 1874.