73 INJURIES OF TEE HEAD. sometimes difficult to distinguish from depressed fracture, ^le centre of both giving to the hand a hollow or depresssed feeling, io the inex- perienced these bloody tumours are a source of great perplexity, but they will be in general distinguished by their having a well-dehned margin or wall, and when the hand is passed over from the sound part, it w?ll fiirst feel this hard wall or margin, and then suddenly experience a soft depression in the centre of the tumour. _ In a fracture with depression there will be no defined margin or soft centre, the depression being gradual and hard to the touch ; besides, there wiU be in all probability symptoms of compression accompanying the injury. ■ , , ^ ^x. These effusions may give trouble by suppurating, but, as a rule, they become absorbed with the use of cold applications. When, however, suppuration takes place, the tumour must be incised, and free exit made for the escape of matter. Severe contusion, accompanied by an open wound, may be followed by erysipelas, abscesses, periostitis, or necrosis, as weU as inflammation of the brain and its membranes. The treatment of these contusions does not differ from similar injuries in any other part of the body; but to prevent the common complications of erysipelas, abscesses, &c.," they require the treatment to be of a most careful antiseptic character, in consequence of-the close proximity of the brain and the possibility of a septic inflammation extending to it. Contused Wounds, with Fracture of the Cranium, without Depres- sion.—These injuries but seldom occur, and, as regards the fracture, are difficult of diagnosis; a fissure through both tables may exist, without producing any alarming symptoms or external evidence. Mr. Erichsen [Lancet, Jan. 5, 187S, p. 2) mentions that in blows on the side of the head where there are symptoms of compression and bulging at the seat of injury, the result of a fissure in the cranium through which blood has come, giving rise to the projection of the temporal muscle, it is right to trephine, and that the position selected should be over the course of the middle meningeal artery, which may be discovered by taking a point an inch and a half above the zygoma and an inch and" a half behind the external angular process of the frontal bone ; where these two points meet, the artery will be found. Furrowing of Outer Table.—There may be furrowing of the outer table without injury to the inner, this being caused by the jjassage of a ball across the skull, striking in such a j)Osition that it does not enter, in fact, a graze of the bone, which, as a rule, is followed by most un- pleasant sjTiiptoms, such as inflammation, if not laceration, of the brain and its membranes, necrosis, and abscess. In the treatment the surgeon must be guided by the amount of con- stitutional disturbance and cerebral symptoms, applying local antiseptic remedies, and keeping the patient perfectly tranquil. Contused Wounds, with Depression. —These injuries are, as a rule, so connected with the consideration of compression, that it is scarcely necessary to touch on the subject here. It may, however, be stated that patients have recovered from such injuries without the depression being elevated.