65 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. or a splinter. It is, therefore, necessary at each dressing to make a most careful inspection of the wound, and remove anything which the introduction of a probe may detect. The treatment must be conducted on general principles, and the remarks made on contused and lacerated wounds have an especial bearing on these injuries. "The fate of the soldier," Nussbaum says, "is in the hands of the surgeon who first attends him." The best course for a simple bullet wound in soft parts will be as directed on p. 59. But in the case of a lacerated wound, it should be washed out with a chloride of zinc or other lotion ; all foreign matter should be removed, and a light dry absorbent antiseptic dressing, as, for instance, a few folds of iodoform gauze which had been previously dipped in a sublimate solution (1-4000), and well covered over by fokls of sal alem broth, or one of the other prepared lints or wools, should be applied and kept in position by firm but even bandaging, and as much rest given as circumstances will permit. Great attention should be given to the ready escape of discharge, and free drainage is to be considered of the first importance. Should inflammation set in, warm wet boric lint should be applied under an oU-silk or guttapercha covering. Dr. Cammerer, Surgeon-General of the German Army, has published his experiences in Eoumania during the last Eusso-Turkish war.* "The cases came from Plevna, and had been subjected to three, four, and five days' previous transport, and arrived at the Eoumanian hospitals with wounds swollen and inflamed. Yet, although an interval of seven days from the receipt of injury had occurred in most of the cases, these septic wounds were converted into aseptic ones by repeated washings out with 5 per cent, carbolic solution, and by the external application of moist jute dressings. The surface of the part injured was first washed with soap and carbolic, shaved, and again washed. All foreign bodies were removed from the wound, ill-conditioned granulation tissue scraped away, the 8 per cent, solution of chloride of zinc applied, followed by careful drainage and jute dressing externally, which was renewed at first every twenty-four houi's. "All the surgeons unite in stating that after an interval of fourteen days gun-shot injuries may be made aseptic. All the wounds of the soft parts, with few exceptions, did well under the treatment described. Three wounds which involved the knee, and two which implicated the elbow-joint, recovered like simple wounds of the soft parts ; one of the former cases was a perforation by bullet of the condyles of the femur. In six weeks the patient was able to go about with a movable joint. In a second instance, the bullet remained lodged in the bone, but the patient recovered in a month with a movable knee-joint. The third made a similar recovery after a transverse wound through the synovial pouch. The treatment consisted in making free incisions into the articulation, washing it out with strong carbolic solution and applying moist jute." In the German Military Hospital at Belgrade, in 1886, Dr. Frankel was able, by the aid of antiseptics (iodoform, corrosive sublimate, and carbolic acid), to carry out conservative treatment with most brilliant * MacCormac's Antiseptic Surgery. 5