LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. 212 flexed and the leg laid on its outer side, an incision 3 or 4 inches long is to be made in the middle third of the leg, parallel to the inner border of the tibia, and half an inch behind it. The edge of the knife should be turned towards the bone in making this incision, and the same direction maintained in the division of the muscle. The gastrocnemius will probably not be seen, but, if so, it should be drawn aside and the tendinous surface of the soleus exposed. Tliis is to be divided for the whole length of the incision, with the muscular fibres beneath it, and a deep tendon which should be recognised and carefully divided on a director if preferred. By drawing the divided soleus outwards with a spatula, the posterior tibial vessels and nerve will be seen bound down to the deep muscles by the deep fascia, which varies much in thickness. The fascia being opened with a knife, the venae comites should be separated froni the artery with a steel director, and the needle passed from without inwards. If the incision is put too far from the tibia, the gastrocnemius will be found, and may be mistaken for the soleus. In dividing the soleus, if the knife is turned away from instead of towards the tibia, a much more extensive division of muscular fibres will result. If the incision be made too close to the border of the tibia, it is difficult to distinguish the soleus, and there is great risk of getting beneath the deep muscles and down to the interosseous membrane. The Anterior Tibial Artery in the upper third. The limb being supported under the knee, so that the sole of the foot may be fiat on the table, an incision begun at a point midway between the external tubero- sity of the head of the tibia and the head of the fibula, and an inch below them, is to pass obliquely downwards and inwards from 3 to 3^ inches. The deep fascia of the leg is to be divided to the same extent, without injuring the muscles beneath, and then, with the forefinger and handle of the knife, the cellular interval between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum is to be sought, and the two muscles carefully separated. This interval can be more easily recognised with the finger than by the eye, but when opened up a muscular branch of the artery will usually be seen between the two muscles. Two broad spatulas must be employed to separate the muscles down to the interosseous membrane. The anterior tibial artery and veins will be seen lying on the interosseous membrane with the nerve to the outer side. The needle should be passed from the nerve. In itsing the finger to find the intermuscular space, it should be directed towards the tibia rather than the fibula. In the Lower Third.—The tendon of the tibialis anticus can be readily felt through the skin, lying next to the anterior border of the tibia, im- mediately above the joint. An incision 2 to 2^ inches long on the outer border of the tendon of the tibialis anticus, and immediately above the anterior annular ligament, is to be carried through the deep fascia, so as to expose the tendon. To its outer side will be seen the tendon of the extensor proprius poUicis, which is drawn outwards with a hook, when in the interval between the two, the anterior vessels and nerve will be seen lying upon the tibia.