74 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. Sir A. Cooper, Abernethy, and Dupuytren, recommended that if the depression did not produce symptoms of compression, it was best not to interfere. Sir William MacCormac remarks cm this subject: "One point, regarding which opinions vary somewhat, is respecting the treat- ment of depressed fracture unaccompanied by symptoms, and with an external wound. Where there is no wound, he would be a hardy operator who should cut down upon a depression in the skull, in the absence of any symptoms of compression. When there is a wound, however, the case is different; but even here I question much if the surgeon ought to do more than simply remove such loose fragments as can readily be got at." On the other hand, Mr. Victor Horsley, whose opinion must be received with the greatest respect, says : * "In depressed fracture of the skull, I wish to urge in the most emphatic manner the necessity of operating upon every such case, whether or not accompanied by an external wound of the soft parts or by immediate symptoms of gravity. It is just these cases when let alone, and particularly where the injury has been received early in life, that the future will almost certainly bring with it not only epilepsy, but also mental defect, persistent loss of memory, and, in fact, general deterioration." Penetrating "Wounds of tlie Cranium generally prove fatal; but instances have occurred of recovery when the bullet or other missile has been surrounded by lymph, and the brain has become accustomed to its presence. In punctured fractures of the cranium, the operation of trephining, undertaken with the object of removing the broken and displaced fragments of bone should as a rule of practice never be deviated from.-f" Fracture of botli Tables.—There may be comminuted fracture of both tables, without producing the slightest symptom of compression, the bone having been broken into such small pieces that they rest loosely on the dura mater, and cause no cerebral symptoms. Fracture from Contre-Coup.—This accident, causing a fissure of the parietal bone, or fracture at the base of the skull, where it is most common, is of rare occurrence in the army. Out of 12,980 injuries of the head during the American War of the Eebellion, there were only two cases recorded of this peculiar injury. The fracture is accounted for by a heavy blow being struck against a hard resisting part of the skuU, and the shock transmitted, causing the thinnest and most brittle portion, though at some distance, to give way. This fracture is never depressed, and is very difficult to recognise. In some instances it has been diagnosed by a sensation of crepitus being given to the hand when the head has been gently moved. The treatment should be entirely constitutional, according to gravity of symptoms, the head being placed on a soft pillow. Fracture of the Base of the Skull.—A fall from a height, or a blow on the vertex or side of the head, may produce this description of * Surgery of the Central Nervous System, by Victor Horsley. Berlin, 1890. t Bryant's Lectures, Lancet, Sept. 15,1888, p. 509.