GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 6o caixses of putrefaction." Esmarch * also writes, after reading? the reports of Keyher and Bergmann m the last Russo-Turkish War, " It is evident beyond doubt, that a much larger number of the most severe injuries of bones and jomts can be aseptically healed under the dry scab than we have ever dared to hope. Even the presence of dirty pieces of clothing m the depth of the wound appears not so very rarely to allow the aseptic process, when the air has been immediately excluded." Acting upon this experience, supposing a bullet wound to have been treated on the field as above described, and, on arrival of the patient at the held hospital, the dry dressing is found to have become agglutinated to the wound by blood, &c. Should there be no fever, pain, or other pressing symptom, this dressing should be left untouched, even sup- posing it to be a joint implicated, in the hope that it will heal asceptically under this scab; but measures should be taken to ensure rest and immo- bilisation, and the attention of the surgeon can then be given to some other wound that will obviously require examination. Eeyher is so impressed with the importance of not "fingering" a wound that he says, " even if there is known to be cloth in it, it should not be examined, but that it should be washed out and attempts made to heal it; if, subsequently, the foreign body does give rise to irritation, it is a far simpler thing to cut down aud remove it in the convenience and leisure of a stationary hospital, than to run any risk of contaminating a wound in a field hospital, as all intei-ference in the latter is apt to do." If, however,_the wound is of such a nature as to imperatively demand a digital examination, with a view to deciding upon the proper course of treatment, the sooner this operation can be performed the better. Before the finger is introduced, it is, of course, to be well washed in the carbolic or other solution. Here it may be remarked that carbolic acid in solution in no way loses its powers, though it may look dirty from repeated use, even though blood be mixed with it. It is by no means necessary that fresh solution should be poured out for each hand-washing, it would be sheer waste to do so, and no field hospital supplies would stand it. If the wound is too small to readily admit the finger, it should be enlarged, as the size of the external injury will not be any gauge as to the extent of injury inflicted upon the bone or bones. Sir T. Longmore recommends the follovidng course to be adopted when exploring with the finger :— "The finger should be inserted slowly and steadily towards the deepest part of the wound. During its passage the surgeon should carefully observe whether any foreign body appears to be pushed before it, or to be lying by the side of the track of the bullet, and should note any other peculiarities of the wound. He should also ascertain whether the end of the track is reached, and if this is found to be arrived at, a careful circular sweep of the finger-end will then usually settle if an}'-, and what, foreign bodies are lodged. The surgeon should not withdraw his finger until the course the projectile has taken, the injury it has done, the complications of the wound, such as the presence of foreign bodies, and, * liangenbach's Archiv, xxiv. April, 1879.