CONTENTS. XI Affections of Stomps. Primary and Secondary Affections-HsBmorrliage—Spasms of Muscles-Excessive Pain—Septic Inflammation—Osteo-myelitis—Inordinate Retraction ot bott Parts Exposing Bone—Necrosis—Neuralgia—Strumous Degeneration—Aneu- rismal Enlargement of Vessels-Exfoliation of Bone—Contraction of Tendons- Maggots in Stumps, . . . • • • ■ • .194 ILemokkhage. Kinds of Hffimorrhage-Wounds of Arteries—Arteritis—Lacerations—Punctured Wounds-Aneurismal Varix—Laceration of Arterial Coats—Punctured Wounds of Arteries—Diffused Traumaiic Aneurism-Circumscribed Traumatic Aneurism —Rules as to Treatment of Wounded Arteries—Treatment of Secondary Hajmorrhage after ligature of Femoral in continuity—Intermediary Heemorrhase —SecondaryHajmorrhage- Causes-Treatment of Secondary Ha;morrhage after Gun-shot Wounds—Hflsmorrhfige from Stumps—Treatment at an Early Period and at a Later Period-Intermittent Hsemorrliage-Expedients for Suppressmg Hajmorrhage—Heemorrhage on the Field of Battle—The Tourniquet—Extem- porary Tourniquets and Special Uses for Field Service—Expedients for Per- manent Arrest of Hasmorrhage-Torsion of Arteries—Mr. Spencer Wells' Artery and Torsion Forceps—Acu-Pressure—Flexion—Cauterisation—Application of Ice or Cold—Hot-water—Styptics—Medicated Astringents—Wounds of Vems— Restraint of Venous Heemorrhage, ...... 195-205 Ligature of Arteries. Mr. Erichsen's Instructions for cutting down on an Artery—Periods of Ha;morrhage after Ligature of Certain Arteries—Ligature of Common Carotid: (a) Above Omo-hyoid; (6) Below Omo-hyoid—Of Lingual Artery—Of Facial Artery- Ligature of the Subclavian Artery in its Third Stage—Of the Axillary Artery: (a) In its First Stage; (6) In its Third Stage—Of the Brachial Artery—Of the Brachial Artery at Bend of Elbow—Of the Ulnar Artery at its Origin and at the Wrist—Of the Radial Artery—Of External Iliac—Ot Femoral Artery—lii Scarpa's Space—In Mid ile of Thigh—Of Posterior Tibial Artery—In Middle of Leg—Anterior Tibial—In the Upper Third—In the Lower Third, . 205-212 Mortification or Gangrene. Traumatic Gangrene—Causes—Treatment—Distant and Spreading Gangrene— Rules of Practice—Question of Waiting for a Line of Demarcation—Gangrene from Frost-bite and Severe Burns—Acute Spreading Gangrene—Treatment— Idiopathic Gangrene-Bed Sores—Management of them—Surgeon - Major Porter's Sling for Treatment of Bed Sores-Local Applications,. . 213-217 Hospital Gangrene. Forms of the Disease—Definitions—Symptoms, Local and Constitutional—Causes due to presence of Microbes—Local Treatment—Hamilton's Suggestions— Constitutional Treatment, ....... 217-221 Erysipelas. Causes—So-called Varieties as Cutaneous—Cellulo-cutaneous—Cellulitis—Treat- ment, Local and Constitutional, ...... 221-224 Phlebitis. Idiopathic and Septic—Symptoms—Treatment, ..... 224-225