208 LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. great risk is venous haemorrhage, which is to be guarded against most carefully i he brachial plexus lies external to and behind the subclavian artery; the subclavian vein in front and below. The Axillary Artery in its First Stage.-If it is necessary to tie the axillary as m the case of a ]3unctured wound, the operation recom- mended by Guthrie is probably the best. It consists in making an incision from the centre of the clavicle directly downwards, in the course of the vessels, to the middle of the anterior fold of the axilla. In this way the skin, superficial fascia, and greater pectoral muscle must be successively divided. The lesser pectoral wiU then be exposed, and the artery may be hgatured above or below this, without further division of muscular substance, or if it be thought desirable to deligate it under this the muscle must be cautiously cut through. When this is done, a very distinct and firm fascia will come into view ; this must be picked up and carefully opened, when the artery and vein will be seen lying parallel to one another, the artery being to the outer side. The vem having been drawn inwards, the aneurism needle must be carried between it and the artery. The advantage of this operation is that the wound is open and free, and that constantly the artery can be more easily reached in any part of its course. The disadvantage is the great division of muscular substance it entails. In its Third Stage.—The axillary artery may be readily reached when the arm is at right angles to the body. The operator should sit between the arm and the trunk, and an incision 3 to 3J inches long is to be placed parallel to the anterior border of the axilla, at the junction of the anterior with the middle third of the space--i.e., one third of the whole width of the axilla behind its anterior border. Carried through the deep fascia, this wiU expose the axillary vein, which is to be drawn down by an assistant. The great cords of the brachial nerves will then be seen, and a little separation of these •wdll expose the axillary artery between them. The needle should be passed from the inner side, or away from the vein, and the ligature must not be applied close to a branch. If the incision is made in the middle of the axilla, the vein will be to its outer side, and in great danger, and it will be diflicult to expose the artery. The relation of the artery to the nerves being uncertain, it is easy to miss the vessel, or to mistake one of the cords for it. If the ligature were applied too close to the large subscapsular branch, secondary haemorrhage would be likely to occur. Brachial Artery. —This operation may be performed in any part of its course. The middle of the arm is the best point to choose. A line drawn from the middle of the axilla to the inner side of the biceps tendon at the bend of the elbow indicates its course. The arm should be held by an assistant at right angles to the body without resting upon any support, which, if employed, is apt to push up the triceps muscle and displace the vessel. The fibres of the biceps should be exposed without dividing them. The arm being abducted and rotated outwards, an incision should be made about 2g inches long on the internal margin of the biceps. " The skin, which is always thin, and the fascia should be carefully divided,