INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 72 invasion of flies, or in the adaptation of tubes for irrigation (see fig. 71), are most important as part of hospital equipment. They may be con- structed from hoops of small barrels, split bamboo, telegraph wire (fig. 76), or from metal bands, generally found in commissariat stores, having been a means of binding compressed hay. 4*0 Fig. 76. INJURIES OF THE HEAD. This important and interesting subject has engaged the attention of numerous writers. Mr, Guthrie remarks: " Injuries of the head affecting the brain are difficult of diagnosis, doubtful in their character, treacherous in their course, and for the most part fatal in their results." * The slightest injury to the head may produce effusion, encephalitis and its consequences, plugging of the sinuses by coagula, leading to coma, paralysis, pysemia, and death; while extensive injuries (their aspects at first threatening most serious results), such as fracture, depres- sion, and even permanent compression, from lodgment of bullets or other extraneous substances, have been followed by no such consequences. Classification of Injuries of the Head.—Many classifications of injuries of the head have been suggested, but for practical purposes it will be sufficient to consider them first, with regard to injuries of the containing parts, and second, with regard to the organs contained. Contusions of the Head.—These injuries generally occur in war from spent bullets, fragments of shells, or other missiles, the velocity of which has been nearly expended; or they may occTir indirectly from splinters of stone, wood, &c. Whatever their origin may have been, or no matter how slight the contusion, they should be most carefully examined and watched. Mr. Listen has remarked that "wounds of the head of the most trivial character are not to be despised, or of the most severe not to be despaired of." This maxim should always be kept in view. The treatment of simple contusion consists in the application of cold water to the part, and the administration of cathartics, light diet, no stimulants, and most perfect quietness. Severe contusions, accompanied by swelling due to blood effusion, are * Commentaries, p. 286. London, 1853.