229 OSTEO-MYELITIS. The treatment consists in giving brandy, wine, ammonia, bark, quinine, and nutritious diet : above all, hygienic measures must be strictly enforced as far as possible, which may be a difficult point to attend to, when the accommodation may be limited, the weather inclement, and no means of preventing overcrowding. The surgeon should keep in view the experience obtained during the war of 1870 71, when it was observed that pyteoiia occurred most frequently in permanent buildings ; next in frequency in huts, and least of all in tents. Pure air is of the greatest importance, and one must ever remember the remarks of Sir J. Paget, who declares that tlie feiu patients ichom he had known to recover from the disease, owed their lives to being kept in a current of fresh air. The local treatment will require that free openings of all pus collections under antiseptic precautions must be established and perfect drainage maintained, and every means used by antiseptic applications to destroy and prevent any jjutrefaction that may have been set up in the wound discharges or the tissues themselves. But the great object must be to prevent this class of disease by such treatment of wounds as has been pi'oved to be able to do so ; and at the same time to remember that, in addition to the antiseptic local treatment, the surrounding sanitary conditions are of the first imijortance. Operations during Pysemia. —The opinion given by Sir J. Paget is, that, witli acute pyaemia, in which the patient has rigors once or more in a few days, and profuse sweatings with very rapid pulse and breathing, and with delirium, and rapid wasting, or with dry tfingue and 3'ellowness of skin, or any considerable number of these symptoms, the i)robability of good is so small and of harm so great that you should refuse to operate. But if the pysemia have become chronic, attended with only wasting and sweating and the formation of abscesses here and there, and if the injured part be manifestly useless, or a source of irritation or of exhaustion, the mere existence of pyjemia in the chronic form need not deter the surgeon from the necessary operation. OSTEO-MYELITIS. Acute septic inflammation in bone is now considered to be a purulent process due to the presence of some of the pyogenic inicro-organisms, and tliat the rapid diffusion of the process is largely due to the unyielding nature of the tissues: general dissemination and metastatic foci in distant organs, or in other bones, are often observed because the microbes re-enter the circulation again, and by so doing cause thrombosis ; and subsequently intravascular growth and general dissemination from such centres of germ growth take place. In some cases, even during the earliest stages, the general symptoms are out of all proportion to the local lesion, presenting a clinical picture characteristic of intense septic intoxication.* Cheyne saysf—"The irritation may be due to organised irritants, such * Siir-yica! Baderiology, Senn. t Antiseptic Surgery.