so WOUNDS. ^ and," he continues, "the number of surgeons is constantly increasing who, when they have operated on an unbroken skin with a fair field around for the application of their dressings, if they see septic inflamma- tion occurring in the wound with its attendant dangers, know that it is their fault, or the fault of the antiseptic appHances at their disposal." Professor Senn* "divides inflammation into two classes—1, simple or plastic inflammation; 2, infective or destructive inflammation. Simple or plastic inflammation is a regenerative isrocess, in which the tissues are in an aseptic condition and the ijroducts of tissue proliferation are trans- formed into normal permanent tissue, and as no toxic ptomaines are found in simple inflammation owing to the absence of micro-organisms, septic and febrile disturbances are entirely absent. It is not a disease, but a physiological process for the repair of a wound or the regeneration of a part. " Septic or infective inflammation is caused by the presence of specific microbes, and the products of the inflammatory process do not undergo transformation into tissue of a higher type. The intensity of the in- flammation depends as well upon the nature of the microbes as their quantity." At the present time the question has arisen—Are all the ills attri- butable to microbes due merely to their presence and growth, or are they due to the action of definite chemical compounds formed during the life and growth of these organisms? Lauder Brunton + observes, "We are now beginning to look upon many of the symptoms which occur in consequence of the action of microbes as being due not to their direct action upon the tissues, but to their indirect action in forming poisons;" he asks, " do the microbes break up the albuminous substances or hydro- carbons which they attack in the fermentative and putrefactive processes by means of their actual protoplasmic structure, or do they, like the higher animals, secrete organic ferments or ' enzymes,' by means of which the disintegration is actually carried on?" Again, Cheyne remarks, "Except in the case of wounds the chemical substances which aid in enabling the bacteria to gain a foothold are the products of the organisms themselves. That various bacterial products are highly poisonous is now well known, and in the case of putrefactive and pyogenic organisms, these products are able not only to cause local trouble as wound inflam- mation, suppuration, and tissue-necrosis (gangrene), but also to set up fever, to depress the vitality of the patient, or, it may be, even to cause death. With regard to these general effects of bacteria, we find in books of surgery, in addition to septicaemia and pyaemia, a third group of general septic diseases due to the action of these products described under the title of septic intoxication or saprsmia." It has long been known that the healthy tissues were unsuitable ground for the development of micro-organisms, and that, while dead matter in a wound (as blood-serum, &c.) offered a most suitable pabulum for their growth and development, yet the living tissues m the wound had a power of protecting themselves against their attack and ot ciieck- * Surgical Bacteriology, by Professor Senn, Chicago, t The Cvoonian Lectures, 1889, by T. Lauder Brunton, M.D., B.K.b.