WOUNDS. 55 various species of corchorus grown in Bengal, and is cheaper than cotton wool, and, at the same time, more absorbent. Iodine has a great antiseptic power, and is a good application to wounds to check any putrefactive action ; it is best used m solution ot 3ij to one pint of water. To obtain perfect hsemostasis after operations, Mr. Bryant recommends the appHcabion of a sponge wrung out of lodme water at 130°F. , • t^- Iodoform acts well, owing to its readily parting with iodine, it is used dry in the precipitated and crystalline forms, and m preparations as iodoform wool, gauze, and ointment. Dr. Oppler mixes iodoform with finely powdered coffee, and maintains that its peculiar odour is thereby lost. It produces in some cases poisonous effects, the chief symptoms of which are a "high temperature (104°F.), loss of appetite, emaciation, patient complains that everything smells and tastes of iodoform, there is a quick pulse, violent delirium in some cases, drowsi- ness in others."—jE^ric/isert. , . Salol, salicylate of phenol, is vidthout taste, and insoluble m water. It is said to be as active as iodoform, as well as cheaper, non-poisonous, and without smell. . Sulpho-carbolate of zinc is highly recommended as an antiseptic by Dr. Bottini, of Pavia. It is readily applied in solution, and is a good injection in gonorrhoea. Chloride of zinc is a reliable antiseptic for the common bacterium of putrefaction, though it does not destroy anthrax spores. It is used in solution of 40 grs. to the ounce of water, and is said to have the property of preventing putrefaction in a wound for some time after its application, and is especially useful in all wounds communicating with the mouth, rectum, or bladder. It is most useful for all wounds when there has been any foul condition of the surface, or in sinuses. Sir Wm. Burnett's solution contains 300 grs. to the ounce—sol ounce diluted with 65 ozs. of water will make a solution which would contain 40 grs. in the ounce. Eucalyptus oil is a very powerful germicide. It is used in solution in olive oil (1-10), also in gauze, and as an ointment. It is most useful in all foul wounds near the anus, perineum, scrotum, &c. Burnt Alum and Bismuth have both been recommended as good hasmostatics and as applications to wounds. A Icohol is a good antiseptic. It has been much recommended by Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson, who uses as a dressing to his operation wounds a lotion composed of 6 parts of absolute alcohol, a half part of Liquor Plumbi, and 16 parts of distilled water—compresses of lint are soaked in this and kept damp with it during the day. Condy^s Fluid has active powers as a germicide, and is a good wash when diluted for foul sores. Chlorinated Soda solution, 5s3 to the ounce of water, is said by Dr. Cabot to stand next to the 1-20 carbolic solution in rapidity of action on bacteria. It is a good application to wounds when there is much fcetor. The balsams, as Tine. Benzoin Co., &c., are most useful appli- cations to old, indolent, and septic wounds. Cotton toool is a good covering for wounds ; it acts by filtering the air,