lOI WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. Complicated non-penetrating wounds, the result of contusion, may- be accompanied by extensive injuries to some of the viscera or bones, and are generally the result of wind-balls, explosions, blows, falls, kicks from men or horses, or the passage of the wheel of au artillery-wagon or gun-carriage over the body. Death may result in a very short time from shock, or haemori-hage, or peritonitis, or subsequently from slough- ing or abscesses in the abdominal waUs. The shock in these cases is of the severest description, amounting in some instances to prolonged collapse, and is probably connected with an internal haemorrhage that is going on. Porter saw an instance of an artilleryman being thrown from the limber while in rapid motion, a wheel passing obliquely over the abdomen and x^flvis ; he was immediately attacked by prolonged collapse, vomiting, pains, bloody urine, and great restlessness, froni which he never rallied, and expired in a few hours. The jMst-vborU'W examination gave evidence of extensive hsemorrhage into the peritoneal cavity, it being full of large clots. There was a fracture of the left ramus of the ischium and pubes. There was no external wound of any consequence, the skin being only a little congested where the wheel had passed over it. Ruptures of the liver are by no means speedily or even necessarily fatal; they may be and usually are so from great extmvasation of blood or bile, but the patient may live for a considerable pei'iod, though he may eventually succumb to septic peritonitis. Pain, collapse, htemorrhage, dulness on percussion, bilious vomiting, followed by peritonitis, white stools, jaundice, and saccharine diabetes, are the symptoms usuallj' ascribed to rupture of the liver; only the three latter are characteristic. Rupture of the Gall Bladder is always fatal. The best guide to the position of the gall bladder is the outer border of the right rectus muscle as it approaches the end of the tenth rib. An incision, 2 inches or 3 inches long, from this pt)int directly downwards is that most usually resorted to to expose the viscus.—Barker. Rupture of the Spleen.—Next to the liver, this viscus is represented as the most frequently lacerated of the abdominal oi'gans, but such cases are by no means always fatal. Extended lacerations are followed by profuse internal htemorrhage, severe shock to the system, coldness of the surface, great anxiety, X)aiu in the seat of injury, and death. In India this accident often follows blows over an enlarged spleen. Rupture of the Kidney, though well protected by its position in the loins, is not an infrequent accident. The symptoms usually present are, excessive collapse, pain referred to the lumbar region, retraction of testicle, and very likely pain in the testicle itself and low down in the abdomen; numbness in the upper part of thigh, bloody urine, frequent desire to pass water, and (should the patient survive) there will, in all probability, be iutiltration or extravasation into the subserous connective tissue, which is more likely to occur in injuries to the posterior surface, and peritonitis in injuries of anterior surface. Infiltration is soon followed by septic inflammation, which will be recognised by rigors, fever, dry brown tongue, and osdema of the parts in the neighbourhood of the