SEPTICEMIA. 225 seated thrombosis, when the vein cannot be felt, and may be the first symptom noticed. "The oedema may give rise to a hard, white, and tense condition of the limb, which pits on pressure, though in some cases the hardness is too great for this." These symptoms may be relieved by the clot becoming absorbed under suitable treatment; but should the disease become septic, there will be high fever, shivering, and the usual symptoms denoting that suppuration has taken place, or is about to do so. The treatment of the idiopathic variety will consist in most perfect rest; warm ai)plications, such as fomentations, &c., and when the patient can bear it, the administration of saline purgatives. Erichsen highly praises the application of extract of belladonna and glycerine in equal parts, covered by a thick layer of cotton wool and a bandage, but care should be taken not to disturb, irritate, or break the thrombosis. If there is depression, it will be necessary to administer ammonia, bark, and stimulants. In suppurative phlebitis local abscesses may form, which run their course like other abscesses, and are bound and limited by inflammation, so preventing their contents entering the vessels, and mingling with the current of the blood; they should be opened under antiseptic precautions, and the patient will require all the sustaining that is possible by food, wme, and medicine. It is generally pysemic in character, and commences as an_ ordinary case of inflammation of the veins, but soon takes on alarmmg symptoms, characterised by extreme prostration, dry brown tongue, fluttering pulse, sordes on the teeth and mouth, diarrhoea, dehrram, and death. Such a case would require the same line of treatment as that recom- mended for erysipelas of the worst form, or pyaemia. SEPTICEMIA. True sepsis is looked upon as a general infection from some local source, unattended by any gross pathological changes. Septicjemia is used to express a condition that may arise from two dififerent causes— (1) irue progressive septicemia, caused by the introduction of microbes into the_ tissues, where they multiply, and later reach the blood. (2) baprtemia, putrid intoxication, in which few or no microbes are found ptomaines * ^^'^^^^ ^^'^^^ entirely to the presence of Septic Intoxication or Saprgemia is a condition which may occur when- ever the discharges from a wound are allowed to accumulate in sufficient quantity and to decompose. It is now thought that the fever accom- panying large recent \younds, in which decomposing matter is in contact with the raw surface, is in great part or entirely due to the absorption of the poisonous chemical products, tox-alhumim, of the putrefaction, and that this fever continues until the surface becomes covered by healthy granulation tissue, which is believed to prevent further absorption, * Surgical Bactei-iology, Senn. 15