114 INJURIES TO AND WOUNDS OF THE PELVIS. and 6 inches in length, or according to the extent of the injury, through the skin and muscles, which should be cleared away on either side of the spnie, and the bony structure exposed to admit of the trephine being applied. Before using the instrument, loose pieces of bone should l)e elevated and removed, care being taken not to push any spicula into the S23inal cord. Key's saw and cutting pliers will be found most useful in dividin'''' processes or arches. ° Mr. Shaw considers that, "in injuries of the spine, except in those cases of fracture high iu the spine, in which respiration has been inter- rupted, the paralysis is not the direct cause of the fatal termination." In cases of fracture generally, "the chief dangers to life arise froui extensive and exhausting sloughs and bed sores, morl;)id conditions of the bladder and urinary organs generally, and in a certain degree derange- ment of the bowels. These are indirect effects of the paralysis. But if they be overcome, the mere loss of motion and sensation in the limbs, and inability to control the action of the bladder and rectum, will destroy life, or be inconsistent with the patient enjoying good health. INJURIES TO AND WOUNDS OF THE PELVIS. Classification of Injuries to and Wounds of the Pelvis —Under this heading will be considered shot fractures of the innominate bones and sacrum, and wounds of the contained parts, namely, of the bladder and rectum, and wounds of the genital organs. As compared with penetrating wounds of the abdomen, wounds of the pelvis are far less fatal. In wounds of the abdomen, hemorrhage and diffuse septic peritonitis are the chief sources of danger; in wounds of the pelvis, cellulitis with gangrene, urinary infiltration, necrosis with exfoliation and protracted suppuration, paralysis and pyemia are the more common causes of death. Contusions of the Pelvis.—Contusions of a slight form require no difference in their treatment from similar injuries in other parts of the body ; but they may be of a severe nature, as from a spent cannon-shot or fragment of shell, producing great extravasation of blood under the integuments or gluteal fascia. These swellings will, as a rule, disappear after repose and local application of stimulating lotions. Fractures, Dislocations, and Gun-shot Injuries.—In striking the pelvis, large solid shots occasion such frightful disorders that death ensues Ijefore inflammation has time to set in, the soft parts are lacerated or pulpified and the bones comminuted. Eifle bullets cause a very great vai'iety of comminutions, even slight shot fractures of the pelvis are long in healing. Much of the gravity in shot perforations of the pelvis will depend upon whether the missile fractures the bone on entering and so dlives the splinters inwards, or fractures the bone on emerging and so d 'ives the splinters outwards. Pr. Stromeyer has pointed out the liability of wounds of the pehis to