WOUNDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. 127 they do not communicate with the knee-joint, an attempt ought always to be made to save the limb. Mr. Alcock remarks on this subject—"! do not aj^ree with Mr. Guthrie ;" and though he admits his experience is more limited, still he is of opinion that the expediency on service of ever delaying the removal of the limb with a complete fracture of the femur lower third from gun-shot wound appears to him doubtful. This only refers to soldiers ; with officers the results are less unfavourable. During the Crimean War, the treatment of this injury afforded a subject of great interest. Sir T. Longmore informs us that the practice of conservative measures, as a means of preventing amputation, was not encouraging. Of the three modes of treatment, resection was the most fatal, conservative treatment next, and amputation least fatal. The fii-st was uniformly fatal; the deaths among cases treated without operation were 82 per cent. ; the deaths among those treated by amputa- tion, almost hopeless cases included, were 65'2 per cent. In the official history of the Crimean campaign, the recoveries after amputation in the upper third were 12 9, in the middle third 40, in the lower third 4.3 "3 per cent, of the cases treated ; but the distinction is not made in regard to the recoveries without amputation. Stromeyer, who has had great experience, has favoured us with the following opinion:—"I differed from (iuthrie in one essential point- that of his preferring amputation for gun-shot fractures of the thigh to conservative treatment. Guthrie puts too much stress upon the imj^er- fections of conservative treatment, the result of which is often a very disabled limb, whose possession does not make the patient very com- fortable. But these imperfections admit of improvement, while a liU/li ampidation gives no profipect of better chances; it will always remain a very dangerous operation. Our first object is to save a man's life, and the sec(md to make him comfoi-table, but not in his grave. My results of conservative treatment in gun-shot fractured thigh during the first three campaigns of 1849, 1850, and 186G, did not go beyond 50 per cent, healed. I saw the reasons of our failures, tried to avoid them, and went on with conservative treatment. In the two campaigns in Schleswig- HoLstein (1849 and 1850), the ]iatients had to be carried to considerable distances. After the battle of Lanzensolza, in 18(i(), I was unable to prevent.many cases from being spoiled by an injudicious use of plaster bandage. It was in FLnng, near Sedan, where we succeeded in saving 77 per cent., twenty-seven amongst thirty-hve patients, who had been carried to no great distance, and were treated loithoiit putting much re-draini on their shattered limbs." " According to my opinion, the great principles to be followed in compound fractures in general are :—(1) Dressing the wounds without hftnig the hmb ; (2) avoiding constriction; and (3) not irritating the muscles in straining them by mechanical contrivances. A gun-shot fractured thigh permits a weight to be suspended to it sufficient to keep the hmb a little at rest, though perhaps not sufficient to give the limb its proper length, except in very few cases." " The most common case is, that for some time after the accident the