CONTENTS. ix "WotniDS OP THE Abdomen. nURRifleation of Wounds of the Abdomen-General Eemarks—Non-penetrating Wounds! UncompKcated-Complicated Non-penetrating Wounds-Ruptures of the Liver-Rupture of the Gall Bladder-Rupture of the Spleen-Rup ure of the Kidney—Rupture of the Stomach-Rupture of the Intestmes-Rupture ot the Bladder-Treatment-Penetrating Wounds of the Abdomen with and without Visceral Injury-Protrusion of the Intestine-Gangrene of Protruded Intestine-Wound of Protruded Inteatine-Penetratmg Wounds of Abdomen without Protrusion-Wounds of Liver—Wounds of.Kidney—Wounds of Stomach —Treatment of Penetrating Abdominal Wounds—Results of Parkes lixpen- ments—Chief Dangers—Mode of Operating-Steps regarding Wound m Intes- tines—Method of Stitching Wounded Intestines—Applicabihty to the 1? lel'i— Peritonitis—Foreign Bodies lodged in Abdominal Cavity—Oolotomy, . 9J-111 WOUKDS AND OTHEE INJURIES OF THE SpIKE. Concussion-Symptoms and Treatment—Compression of Spinal Cord—Dislocations or Fractures without an External Wound—Pai-alysis in Injury of the Spme— Fracture and Dislocation in the Cervical, Dorsal, and Lower Lumbar Regions- Treatment—Victor Horsley's Views—The Use of the Trephine in Injuries of the Spine, 111-1^* Injifeies to and WotniDS of the Pelvis. Classification of such Injuries—Contusions—Fractures, Dislocations, and Gun-shot Injuries—Shot Fractures of the Ilium—Shot Fractures of the Pubis—Shot Fractures of the Ischium—Shot Fractures of the Sacrum—Necrosis and Caries 114-115 Wounds of Organs of Mictttrition. Wounds of the Bladder—Symptoms—Bullets or other Foreign Bodies in the Bladder —Puncture of the Bladder—The Operation of Lithotomy, . . 115-117 Wounds of the Organs of Generation. Wounds of the Penis, the Perineum, and Urethra—Erections—Retention of Urine- Foreign Bodies in the Urethra—Wounds of the Scrotum—Wounds of the Testes —Wounds of the Spermatic Cord, ...... 117-118 Wounds of the Organs of Defjecation. Wounds of the Rectum and Anus—Incised Wounds—Shot Wounds—Haemorrhage of the Rectum, 118-119 Wounds of the Extremities. Classiflcation—General Eemarks on Gun-shot Fractures—Simple Fractures- Compound Fractures—Partial Fractures—Management of Simple and Com- pound Fractures in the Field—Gun-shot Fractures of the Upper ^Extremities; of the Humerus—Stromeyer's Cushion—Shot Fractures of the Clavicle, Scapula, Radius, and Ulna; of the Hand; of the Metacarpal Bones and Fingers- Incised Wounds of the Fore-arm and Wrist—Gun-shot Fractures of the Lower Exremities; of the Femur—Treatment of Gun-shot Fractures of the Femur— Question of Amputation or not according to Situation—Various Opinions—Rules for proceeding, and not proceeding, to Amputate at once—Examination of Wound—Sequestra, their Classiflcation—Extension in Treatment of Gun-shot Fractures of the Femur-Contrivances for the Treatment of Shot Fractures of the Femur and Bones of the Leg and Foot—Shot Wounds of the Foot and Toes, 119-138