SPLINTS. 45 " It exercises a uniform circular pressure throughout the entire length of the Ihnb, thereby paralysing the attacked muscles ; it secures immo- bihty to the broken fragments; and it keeps up continuous extension to a certain extent when put on and aUowed to harden while the limb s extended. The firm unyielding capsule formed by this bandage when it embraces the joints above and below the wound prevents the further approximation or riding of the broken ends, and keeps the hmb on the constant stretch. Finally the fenestra m the bandage must be so arranged that the fixity of the bandage must not be lessened., Surgeon-Major Moffitt, who has made several experiments in connection with the employment of plaster of Paris as a means of forming splints or supports to facihtate the transport of men suffering from gun-shot fractures, recommends the following mode of application =— "Plaster of Paris in a proper state, water, spermaceti ointment, a small basin and a spoon being in readiness, a piece of flannel is to be cut, of shape and size fitted to envelope the limb, with the exception of a longitudinal space of about half-an-inch in breadth between its edges, it for the leg, it should be of the shape shown by the dotted hne m the illustration (fig. 58). . . j. j ti, " The limb should then be greased with spermaceti omtment, and tne hairs smoothed down to the skin, or what will be found to answer as well, if not better, a calico roller may be wound spirally round the limb, and divided at a later period, after the plaster covering is applied, along the vacant interval between its edges. The calico will not only prevent the hairs from sticking to the plaster, but will also form a neat hnmg for the sphnts. Either of these steps having been taken, equal parts of plaster of Paris and water should be quickly and thoroughly blended together by stirring, and in this mixture should be immersed, with the hands, the' piece of flannel about to be used. When the flannel is well saturated, and its surface completely covered with plaster, it should be withdrawn from the basin, the folds and creases stretched out of it, and it should then be applied and pressed to the limb so as to fit it accurately, without, however, permitting its edges to join each other ; the object of this last precaution being to leave a narrow open space up the whole length of the limb, to allow for the occurrence of swelling. In this position it should be held steadily untU the plaster has set, which will generally not occupy longer than five minutes. The illustration shows the splint appUed to the leg. Should the splint, however, after the plaster is set, be considered not to have strength and firmness enough, another layer may be applied over it exactly in the same way. A roUer may now be applied lightly over the whole. " The quantity of plaster requisite for a leg is about eight ounces ; for the thigh and arm in proportion. " Should it be desired, however, to make the plaster more secure, or to continue its appUcation as a permanent spUnt, this may be done with great facility by the addition of a little dextrine. This will be best accomplished by taking a piece of flamiel of the dimensions similar to that used for the plaster of Paris, coating one side of it over with a thick * Medical Times and Gazette, August, 1S73.