HEMORRHAGE. 199 eptic inflammation and suppuration in the neighbourhood of the artery Under these influences its coats soften and yield in places to the blood pressure, when some spot may ultimately give way, and haemorrhage be the result. If the ends of the arteries are embedded in healthy granula- tion tissue, there will be no secondary hfemorrhage. Treatment of Secondary Haemorrhage after Gun-shot Wounds.— When severe the surgeon will have to cut down on the wounded artery and tie or twist both ends, or tie it in its continuity leading to the seat of the bleeding. Some authorities advocate dealing with the main trunk. Stromeyer and MacCormac are opposed to this practice, such operations having been uniformly unfavourable in their experience ; they are more in favour of amputation in cases of secondary haemorrhage. When not severe, it will probably be restrained by pressure and the elevation of the part. Pres.sure, when selected, should be applied directly on the bleeding point, by graduated compresses and bandages, and it will be of advantage, too, if it be put on the main artery or arteries leading to the aperture._ Nothing can be more disheartening than searching for a bleeding point in a suppurating unhealthy wound. If it is found, in all pro- bability it will not hold a ligature; but it is more than likely that it wiU not be found. Should, then, the main artery be tied higher up, or should amputation be performed ? In the experience of the writer at Suez f in 1884, several severe cases of secondary hsemorrhage, resulting from deep spear wounds, were controlled by ligature of the main artery of the limb. In one case deligation of the superficial femoral failed to check the bleeding, but tying the external iliac controlled it, and the man made a good recovexy. It would seem, therefore, advisable in cases of this kind to tie the artery, if practicable, higher up first before proceeding to the graver operation of amputation. The true treatment is such antiseptic management of the wound from the first as will prevent septic inflamma- tion and suppuration. Hsemorrhage occurring from stumps may be primary, intermediate or reactionary, and secondary. Primary hemorrhage would be dealt with at the time of operation. Intermediate or reactionary may occur from reaction, or from disease of the arterial coats, which may give a certain amount of warning by general oozing; or, in flap operations, where an oval opening having been made in an artery, the whole lumen of the vessel has not been included in the ligature. Secondary, at a later period, when it may be from causes interfering with the formation of the coagula, or producing ulceration of the coats of the artery, or from septic causes as described above (vide p. 51). The treatment of hasmorrhage from a stump at an early period must be promiDt; the maxim that holds good in primary hemorrhage, not to interfere with a vessel unless it bleeds, will not answer here. Bleeding having occurred more than once, active measures must be adopted. After having tried elevation of the stump, the application of tourniquet, pressure by means of bandaging the stump so as to press the flaps together, and the application of cold to the wound and the adjoining parts, without * Proceedings of Pathological Society, 4th Dec, 1883. t A.M.D. Reports for 1883. Vide Appendix III.