146 WOUNDS OF JOINTS. th^'p^Snf * *^ree periods for performing the operation of excision of _ These periods he defines thus -.—Prhnary, those performed in the interval between the reception of the injury and the commencement of tne inflammatory symptoms, a period rarely exceeding in duration twenty-four hours, but it may be prolonged to thirty-six or forty-ei^ht hours. Intermediate, those performed during the persistence of the inflammatory stage, a period extending over two or three months Secondary, those performed after inflammation has subsided, when the local lesions have become analagous to those resulting from chronic CLlS6clS6» He writes—A study of the history of over 20,000 major amputations and ot more than 4,000 excisions of the larger joints definitely teaches that, in operations for traumatic causes, there is a wide difference in the results of those performed immediately after the reception of the injury those performed during the existence of inflammatory action, and those done after the symptomatic fever and inflammatory symptoms have abated." Mr. Otis says-"122 cases comprise the greater number of gun-shot fractures of the upper extremity of the femur, involving the hip-joint and treated on the expectant plan, which were uncomplicated by lesions of the pelvis, or of the great vessels or nerves. Of these, 114 proved fatal, and the average duration of life after the reception of the injury was thirty-one days." "I continue," he vmtes, "to share the conviction of Guthrie and the elder authors as to the uniform fatality of such injuries when abandoned to the resources of nature. I am fortified in this opinion by the fact that none of the officers of the regular staff have ever observed an unequivocal instance of recovery under such circumstances, by the testimony also of a majority of the surgeons of the volunteer staff, and the concurrent testimony of a large number of those regimental surgeons who acted as chiefs of divisions, who aver that they have never seen a recovery from an undoubted gun-shot injury of the hip-joint treated on the expectant plan. Expectant treatment is to be condemned in all cases in which the diagnosis of direct injury to the joint can be clearly established. Experience teaches that considerable portions of the shaft may be with propriety removed with the head, neck, and trochanters in cases in which splintering extends below the trochanter minor. The necessity of accurate diagnosis cannot be insisted upon too strongl}"-, since there can be little dpubt that gun-shot fractures of the upper third of the femur not involving the articulation are best treated by conservative measures. In fractures or excisions of the upper extremity of the femur, no apparatus or dressing yet devised ensures entire rest under such cir- cumstances. " All experience thus points out the necessity of excising the head and neck of the femur when completely fractured by a l)ullet. To attempt to carry out an expectant treatment unless the patient can be promised absolute rest for some time afterwards is to insure a fatal residt. The ♦Circular 2—A Eeport upon Excision of the Head of the Femur. War Depart- ment, "Washington, U.S., 1S60.