WOUNDS OF JOINTS. t48 the articular capsule is superficial. The large vessels are forcibly lifted by the continually swelling capsule, so that the femoral artery seems to beat close under the skin. Oun-shot wounds of the. trochanter, and injuries of the soft parts near the hip-joint require the greatest care, even when there is no evidence of the joint being injured, because the subsequent inflammation and suppuration may ultimately extend to it. The trochanter major, re- marks Professor Langenbeck, as the projecting point in the outline of the thigh shows the centre of the hip-joint, so the bullet may lodge in the joint if it is projected in that direction. The dilatable bone sub- stance allows the buUet to press forward into the joint without leaving behind a shot canal that will fairly admit the probe, and one is too easily led to believe that the ball has passed through, or fallen out of the apparent shot canal. It is now considered good practice in gun-shot wounds of the upper part of the femur, when the fracture does not extend beyond the trochanter or is in the trochanter itself, to simply remove the splinters and secure absolute rest for the patient. The exact position of the trochanter is often of the greatest importance, hence these measurements have great diagnostic value. " N61aton's Line consists of a line draw n from the anterior-superior spine of the ilium to the tuber ischii. If the trochanter be at its proper level, this line ought to touch its upper border when the limb is straight. The importance of this line is, that when the head of the femur is in its normal situation, it touches the summit of the trochanter in every degree of flexion or extension of the limb. If the trochanter be displaced in any direction a corresponding change in its revolution to this line will ensue. There is, however, the fallacy that abduction raises the trochanter above the line and adduction brings it below the line." " Bryant's Ilio-Femoral Triangle is formed by placing the patient in the recumbent position ; then drawing a line from the anterior-superior spine of the ilium directly backwards, another line also from the anterior- superior spine to the summit of the trochanter, and a third, or base line, directly upward from this to the first line, a triangle will thus be formed. The oblique line corresponds to the first part of Nelaton's line and may be taken, just as Nelaton's, as the diagnostic line for dislocations of the head backwards ; whilst Bryant's base line is the test line for all cases in which the neck of the femur is shortened, or the head of the bone thrown upwards. In this method of measuring there is the same fallacy as in Nelaton's." " Giraud-Teulon's method, although somewhat compHcated, appears to be free from all sources of error. It is founded upon the fact that the middle of Nelaton's line corresponds to the centre of the acetabulum. Any shortening of the femur by fracture, or any dislocation, ^vill neces- sarily alter the distance between the lower end of the femur and this point. The measurement is thus carried out. Find the distance from the anterior-superior spine of ilium to the tuberosity of the ischium, and from the same point to the inner condyle, and from the tuberosity to the inner condyle. Then draw a triangle on a sheet of paper, the three sides