HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 217 by Porter and used with advantage in cases where the sacrum and nates were severely implicated ; it may be applied in camp or in permanent hospitals. The sling consists of a strip of West of England canvas, 18 by 24 inches. At either end it is stitched on two pieces of strong wood about the dia- meter of the common office-ruler, which keeps the canvas expanded when under the patient, and forms a means of fastening the stays, which are spliced together and attached to 3-inch blocks. These blocks have i-opes passing through them and through blocks of the same size attached to jjoles or uprights (fig. 126), by which means the shng can be raised or Fig. 126. lowered. A piece of canvas, round in shape, and 4 inches in diameter, is removed from the centre of the sling, through which the sores can be dressed or cleaned. In appljring the sling, it is necessary to place a mat- tress doubled at one end under the patient's shoulders, the thin end extending to the loins. A pillow should be placed under the knees, and, except for dressing the sores, the patient should not be raised more than 1 inch off the bed. For local application, numerous remedies have been recommended. Cleanhness shoiild be the first consideration, and the removal of sloughs if any exist. Equal parts of castor-oil and balsam copaiba may be applied. Balsam of Peru, either pure or diluted witli the yolk of egg, spread on lint, or spirits and glycerine, are useful. Salicylic or boric acid ointment have been found useful sjDread on very thin linen, and warm astringent applications, such as the tincture of catechu, mjo-rh, iodine, and the resin ointment, l\ave been spoken highly of. The health of the patient must be carefully attended to, as, -without improvement in it, the sores will not heal. HOSPITAL GANGRENE. "Putrid Ulcer," "Phagedfena Gangrenosa," "Sloughing Phagedc-ena," "Pourritured'Hdpital." =00, Forms of Hospital Gangrene.—Delpech describes three forms, the ulcerative, the pulpous, and the gangrenous.