241 COOKING-PLACES. and then, if the power of swallowing have returned, small quantities of wine, warm brandy and water, or coffee should be administered. The patient should be kept in bed and a disposition to sleep encouraged. COOKING-PLACES. " The simplest kitchen consists of a trench dug in the direction that the wind is blowing, of such width that the kettle, when placed on it, should not rest above an inch on each side. When the width is 9 inches, its depth should be 12 at the end from which the wind is blowing, and continue that depth for 4 feet, decreasing then gradually to 3 inches at the opposite end, where a space must be left equal to the breadth of the trench, to serve for a chimney. The fire is lit at the end where the trench is deep ; it should not extend beycmd 3 or 4 feet up the trench. The kettles are placed touching one another along this trench ; dry sods should be used to stop up the chinks made by the roundness of the kettles, so that the space under them may form a flue. It is advisable to pile up sods, or, with stones and earth, to erect a chimney of at least 1 foot in height at the end away from the fire. All grass round the fire- places should be cut to prevent accidents from fire. "These kitchens are susceptible of great imi3rovement. The chimney can be made of mud, or wattle and daub, and the draught may be increased by using short pieces of hoop-iron, as bars stretched across the trench to support a filling-in of clay round each kettle, or in other words, to make a regular place for the kettle, into which ib will fit exactly, so that its position may be frequently changed, to prevent the contents of one being cooked before the other. As the day following the wind may change to an exactly opposite direction, a similar trench must be dug in continuation of the former one, the same chimney being used. In this manner the same chimney will serve for trenches cut to suit the wind blowing from all four quarters. The openings from these trenches into the chimney must all be closed with a sod, except the one to be used when the fire is lit. In some places, where bricks or stones suitable to the purpose are to be had, it is better to construct these kitchens on the ground instead of below its surface. " In well-wooded countries, like America, two logs rolled together in the direction of the wind, the fire being kindled between them, make a good kitchen. In such places fuel is no object, so the construction of chimneys can be dispensed with, and the kettles hung from a stick resting at each end on a forked upright. Field Ovena.—"The simplest method of making them is as follows :— Take any barrel (the more iron hoops on it the better), the head being out; lay it on its side, having scraped away the ground a little in the centre to make a bed for it; or, if there is a bank near, excavate a place for it, taking care that the end of the barrel does not reach within 6 inches of the edge of the bank; cover it over with a coating of about 6 or 8 inches of wet earth or thick mud, except at the open end, which IS to be the mouth of the oven. Pile up some sand or earth to a thick- 16