192 EXCISION. an apparatus for resection of the elbow-joint, and in consequence appUed It consists of a strong piece of iron wire placed in front of the limb extending from the toes to the groin, and bent at convenient angles U> suit the front of the ankle and the knee, taking care that an arch is formed with it immediately above the seat of operation. Hooks should be formed with the wire at either end, and two or three loose ones attached for the purpose of suspension (fig. 118). Underneath the limb should be placed a wooden splmt, hollowed out and cut to an angle to correspond with the bend of the knee. Firmly secured to this is a foot-board, placed at nght angles, which gives support to the foot, and forms a base for the plaster of Paris bandage (fig. 119). In using the apparatus, the wooden splint should be most carefully cushioned and applied, especially about the heel and foot, where any undue pressure may be attended by most serious consequences. The plaster of Paris bandage should then be applied in the usual manner, an opening being left at the seat of the wound for the purpose of applying dressings. Pig. 120 represents the splint applied and suspended. Professor Esmarch says he has applied this apparatus in cases of re- section of the ankle-joint for six or seven weeks, and that the patients have never once had to complain of aches or pains, and that the advan- tages of these suspension splints are so great that he recommends them most earnestly for war service, as well as in time of peace. Excision of the Os Calcis.—"The patient lying on his face, a horse-shoe incision is carried from a little in front of the calcaneo-cuboid articula- tion round the heel, along the side of the foot, to a corresponding point on the opposite side. The elliptic flap thus formed is dissected .up, the knife being carried close to the bone, and the whole under-surface of the OS calcis exposed. A perpendicular incision, about 2 inches in length, is then made behind the heel, through the tendo-Achillis, in the mid-line