MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. 213 * Antiseptic Treatment of Wounds, p. 22. MOETIFICATION, OR GANGRENE, Traumatic Gangrene. — Oheyne thus sums i;p the pathology of gangrene after operations and injuries''—"First, it may result from direct destruction of the tissue at the time of injury, from injury to large blood-vessels, &c. Second, it may occur as the result of inflammation in a weak part. In this case the inflambaation is set up by the growth of micro-organisms in the discharge or tissues of the wound, or by tension in the wound. Third, it occurs as the result of growth of bacteria in the tissues seen in phagedaena and traumatic gangrene." In traumatic gangrene, or that induced by local causes, the parts may be so injured that they are killed outright, or their vitality may be so weakened that they cannot recover themselves, as in the case of severe bruises, laceration, wound of the main artery or vein of a limb inter- fering with the circulation, which frequently happens in gun - shot fractures when splinters of bone or the missile wound the artery, or in punctured or incised wounds of a large vessel allowing of extravasation. It has also happened from a bandage being applied too tightly. The parts killed outright by the force of the injury, or so weakened thereby as to have their vitality seriously impaired, are, if exposed to septic influences, readily preyed upon by micro-organisms of a sapro- phytic or pathogenic character; if the parasitic bodies are of the former class, possibly only those parts originally killed outright mortify or undergo putrefactive fermentation ; whereas, if the laarasites include the latter class, the gangrenous process will show a disposition to sjoread among the damaged tissues. Treatment.—in cases of injury the extent of the gangrene can be most materially modified by cax'eful antiseptic treatment from the first. For it should be remembered that the cause of the gangrenous process is a living agency; therefore the treatment should consist of such chemical applications as are known to prevent or limit its growth [e.g., corrosive sublimate lotion, iodoform, &c.), whereas poultices and water-dressing encourage and foster the morbific agencj^ and so, of course, tend to increase and spread the gangrene. In doubtful cases, or in cases of gangrene resulting from a wound of the main vessels, from compound fracture, or fi-om any local cause, such as obstruction of the artery or vein {distant gangrene), the rule laid down by the older surgeons was to wait for the line of separation before the parts 'were removed by ampu- tation, but whilst acting on this rule we should be doing all in our power to bmit the gangrene as much as possible. The result of amputation for traumatic gangrene is, on the whole, unfavourable, the disease fre- quently recurring in the stump ; in those cases where the tissues are already infiltrated or disorganised the prospects from amputation are still more unfavourable. The strength of the patient should be main- tained by nutritious diet, wine, tonics of mineral acids, quinine, &c. aided by opium. '