95 WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. or by wounds of the lung or bronchi, where air passes from the lung into cavity of chest and is forced into the external wound ; but to secure its taking place in this latter description of injury, it is necessary that the external woTind and wound of lung should not exactly correspond, but have an oblique direction. It may also be caused by air entering the chest on inspiration through an external wound, and finding some obstruction on being forced out again at expiration, diffusing itself into the cellular tissue. _ . Mr. Hennen's experience of this complication was that it occurred m about one in fifty cases of wounds in the chest, and that it is more fre- quent ia confined punctured wounds than in those which are free and open. Mr. Guthrie is of opinion that it is not so frequent an occurrence as was at one time supposed. He says—" An opening made by a musket- ball rarely admits of emphysema. A slanting wound made by a pistol- baU may sometimes give rise to it. After a long tortuous_ wound made by swords or lances, it is seen more frequently, but then it takes place shortly after receipt of injury." Legouest considers it one of the most frequent accompaniments of piercing wounds of the chest. Emphysema appears in some slight injuries—as, for instance, in the case of a fractured rib, when a small spiculum of bone may penetrate the lung, and cause emphysema in the immediate neighbourhood of the wound; the air will in all probability be soon absorbed by the application of a bandage, or wide strips of plaster round the chest. While serving in India, Porter was called upon to visit a brother officer who had been thrown from his horse and fractured three ribs. He was scarcely able to breathe; there was great pain and considerable emphysema in the immediate vicinity of the broken ribs. A bandage was applied pretty firmly round the chest, when distress in breathing disappeared, and the emphysema subsided in a few days. Bandaging and strapping must be regulated by the sensation of the patient; and, should either cause distress, it must be at once removed. Should the swelling extend, so as to interfere with respiration, the external wound, if there be one, should be opened, and punctures or scarification made in the cellular tissue. If emphysema is produced by the air being drawn into the cavity of the chest through a wound, and then forced into the cellular tissue, the wound should be closed. Pneumothorax, or an accumulation of air in the cavitj' of the pleura, gives rise to the following symptoms :—Dyspncea, tympanitic resonance of chest, amphoric respiratit)n, metallic tinkling on auscultation, affected side dilated. The patient feels relief by Ijdng on his back or affected side, seldom on the sound side. Relief must be given by reopening the wound in the chest, if one exists, or removing the air by trochar and canula. Hydrotliorctx may occur as the result of pleurisy following gun-shot wounds. It may require surgical interference, by the operation of paracentesis thoracis. Its presence is recognised by those general signs which indicate the presence of fluid in the cavities of the pleura.