78 INJURIES OF TEE HEAD. imniovable. The lips are usually compressed, and if an attempt is made to give fluids they run out at the corners. There may be paralysis of one side, or of one side of the face ; paraplegia or hemiplegia. At first the secretions are retained, subsequently they pass involuntarily. If the injuries have existed for a day or so, it maybe necessary to diagnose between compression from extravasation, from depressed bone or from inflammatory effusion within the skull. In cases of depressed fracture the symptoms are uninterrupted, and on careful examination the existence of an injured bone will in all probability be discovered. In cases of effusion from pus, lymph, or serum, the result of inflamma- tion causing pressure on the brain, symptoms of cerebral inflammation will precede the symptoms of compression. Treatment of Compression.—In the case of a wounded soldier suffer- ing from symptoms of compression, the first consideration wUl be, what is the cause of it ? and, if that can be ascertained, what shall be done to relieve him ? In cases arising from causes apparent to the surgeon, such as depres- sion of the inner table of the skull, or depression of both tables, with lodgment of bullet or other missile, the treatment is a matter which will require the most grave consideration. The wounded soldier should be most carefully examined, with a view of discovering the source of compression, and should the most rigid treatment not relieve the cerebral symptoms, it will be necessary to con- sider the advisability or otherwise of using the trephine, elevator, or saw ; but on this point numerous and adverse opinions have been expressed by some of the most eminent civil and military surgeons. Mr. Hennen considers that all extraneous matters should be removed ; that fractured portions of bone, if loose, should be extracted ; and that depressed portions should be elevated when it can be done without the infliction of additional violence, but to keep in view the tendency of the brain and its membranes to inflammation. Mr. Guthrie remarks Avith reference to the question—What is to be done where there is breaking down and splintering of the inner table with depression ? There can be no hesitation in answering that in all such cases the trephine should be applied, although no symptoms should exist, with a view of anticipating them. He considers that the danger resulting from the application of the trephine in such cases bears no proportion to the risk incurred by leaving the broken portion of the bone as a constant cause of irritation. Sir T. Longmore says that when irregular edges, points of pieces of bone, or foreign subistances are forced down, and eNadently jjenetrate, not merely press upon the cerebral substance, or where abscesses manifestly exist in any known site, and relief cannot be afforded by simpler mean.s at the wound itself, trejjhining is a proper operation to be resorted to for effecting the necessary relief ; but in all other cases harm wUl probably be avoided by abstaining from trephining, while benefit will be effected by simply resorting to long-continued constitutional treatment. Dr. Strom eyer, of the German Army, abandoned the practice of tre- phining in 1849, though in the early part of his professional career he