WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. 94 recovery when both lungs have been penetrated, and dissection has proved that sufferers: have Hved for several days; but; the probabil- ity is, that health will never be permanently restored'after such an accident. Extraneous bodies in superficial chest wounds should be carefully re- moved, and splinters and spicula of bone elevated or removed, if detached, in the event of a ball passing through or round the chest, but not having sufficient velocity to make an exit at the opposite side, being possibly impacted between two ribs, or fracturing a rib, and presenting itself as a small tumour under the skin, it will be necessary to observe great caution in attempting to remove it, as by want of care it may be forced back and fall into the cavity of the pleura, complicating matters very considerably; but, if it is not causing distress, it is better not to interfere, as the missile may become encysted. The operation should be performed during inspiration. When round bullets were used, it was not an uncommon circumstance for a ball to strike a rib and pass half way round the chest, but with the conoidal bullet this can rarely happen. Searching for Extraneous Bodies in Chest.—Authorities differ as to the advisability or otherwise of searching for extraneous bodies in the cavity of the chest. Bell, writing in 1800, says—" As for a ball itself, if it be lost in the thorax, it is irrecoverably lost, and no method that we can contrive will enable us either to find it or extract it." M, Legouest, in speaking of the use of the probe, remarks—"The only inconvenience to which one is exposed in probing a gun-shot wound of the chest, supposing a foreign body to be in it, is not to find that for which one is searching. In fact, when the lung is free from adhesions, it recedes with the pressure of the probe and escapes injury; or if the lung adheres to the pleura costalis, and the internal wound is in relation with, the outer, in this case a chest probe or large gum-elastic probe might be introduced into the course of the wounded lung without running the risk of causing more inflammation than the presence of the ball, splinters, clothing, or other extraneous matters." He agrees with Ledran that, if one is fortunate enough to find the extraneous matter in the lung, one must dilate sufficiently the exterior wound, in order to seize it with pincers and extract without obstruction. Erichsen remarks on the subject of foreign bodies in the chest—"If any extraneous body, such as a bullet, a piece of wadding, or of clothing, have penetrated too deeply into the chest to be readUy extracted through the external opening, it would not be safe to nmke incisions or exploratory researches Avith a view to extracting it, for though its presence would increase the patient's danger, yet attempts at ex- traction would not only add to this, but would in all probability be fatal. In many cases, bodies so lodged become surrounded by an abscess, are loosened, and eventually are sjjat up, or appear at the external wound." Emjjhysema, or the infiltration of air into the cellular tissue, is not an unusual accompaniment of wounds of the chest. It may be caused by a spiculum of a broken rib penetrating the pleura and wounding the lung,