Wounds of joints. oJ^lT^Ki! ^1 rewioz^ed in liesection.-By the experience re- Z^rL l' ""'P^'l the American War, complete resections were thought to give more favourable results, both in preserving life and utility than partial ones. The removal of the head of the radius or of one of the condyles or the upper extremity of the ulna, seemed more liable to be fo lowed by inflammation, extensive and prolonged suppura- 1 ^ anchylosis, than the removal of the entire joint. Considerable doubt, however, exists as to the correctness of this opinion; when, for instance, the elbow-jomt is exposed, the ligaments torn, and the injury to bone conhned to the lower end of the humerus, would it be safer to remove the articular ends of the radius and ulna? or, again, if the articular ends ot the bones of the forearm were injured, ought the condyles of the humerus to be also removed ? The fact of depriving an uninjured bone of Its articular end would be a sufficient argument against such a course, in disease Mr. Syme recommended the removal of the articular extremities. In operations for injury, Mr. Otis appears to consider a prion that there is not the same need of inflicting additional injury by a section of healthy bone, and the deduction seems to be sustained by facts, excellent results having been obtained when the joint ends of either the upper or forearm have been removed after complete exposure of the joint, and the uninjured portions of the articulation have been unmolested. interesting and instructive case is recorded by Sir W. MacCormac (British Medical Journal, January 22, 1876), in which a soldier during the Franco-German War received an injury of the shoulder and elbow on the same side, in which he excised both jomts with most satisfactory results. Wounds of the Wrist-Joint. The wrist being a complicated joint, gun-shot injuries to it are liable to be followed by most serious results, and, as the structures are so superficial, resection as a primary operation is not likely to be successful. Its close connection with flexor and extensor tendons renders them liable to consolidation with their sheaths, and thus to cause stiffness of the joint. Sword cuts opening into the joint if seen early should be cleaned, the soft parts and all tendons brought together by means of sutures, and the hand and forearm supported on a splint, until firm union has taken place, when flexion and extension should be exercised to try and avoid a stiff joint. M. Legouest makes the following important observations regarding recent wounds of the wrist:—Shot fractures of the wrist, where the region is traversed in its long diameter, and is the seat of much shattering [delahrements), require amputation in the forearm. Where the joint is perforated from before backwards without great damage, by extracting splinters the limb may be preserved. Of six complete excisions of the wrist during the American War, one proved fatal after recourse had been had to amputation. The five others recovered with the functions of the hand much impaired, but, all things