WOUNDS. 57 serted, and the wound dressed with some dry absorbent apphcation. Should no foreign body be suspected, and the lips of the wound fall together, no examination should be made, but the wound should be covered with a dry dressing and the parts gently but evenly supported by a bandage. In the event of the wound becoming inflamed the greatest attention must be paid to prevent the retention of discharge, free drain- age should be estabhshed, and the wound surface dressed with wet boric lint under an oil-silk or guttapercha covering. Lacerated wounds are such as are inflicted by blunt obtuse, bodies de- stroying to a certain extent the vitality and organisation of the textures. There is usually little haemorrhage, but the pain may be very severe. If the wound has been made by a canon shot, the parts wiU present a very ragged surface, the skin being stripped away, the tendons in aU probabihty hanging out, bellies of torn muscles protruding, and the vessels exposed, but no hsemorrhage. These wounds are very slow in healing, in consequence of the superficial parts being so disorganised. In no class of wounds is the effect of antiseptic treatment more marked than in these injuries. In the experience of the writer, sloughing and suppuration is greatly lessened, and tissues that appear quite destroyed recover themselves in a wonderful manner. The injured part should be thoroughly cleansed and purified by one of the stronger solutions,^ as the chloride of zinc 40 grs. to 1 oz. of water, or the 1-20 carbolic solution, or 1-500 mercuric chloride. The torn tissues should then be replaced in their proper positions, tendons and nerves, if divided, should be united by suture (chromic gut), and the whole covered with folds of the sal alem- broth or other antiseptic wool. These dressings should not be removed iinless discharge comes through, or some signs of putrefaction show them- selves. The writer always inclines to dry absorbent dressings instead of wet if possible. Wind Balls.—Extensive injuries to internal viscera have been inflicted without any sign of an external lesion ; bones have been broken, and yet no sign on the external skin of contact with any missile. These injuries are produced by what are known as wind balls, which many authorities on gun-shot wounds have endeavoured to explain. Sir T. Longmore considers that " the true explanation of the appearance presented in those cases which were formerly called wind contusions, appears to rest in the peculiar direction, the degree of obliquity with which the missile has happened to impinge against the elastic skin to- gether with the relative situation of the internal organ injured to the missile, and to other hard substances in the neighbourhood. The surface itself is not directly torn or cut into, because the impact of the pi'ojectile has not been sufficiently direct to effect an opening ; but the parts be- neath are crushed by the pressure to which they have been subjected between the combined influence of the weight and the momentum of the ball or shot on one side, and of some hard resisting substance on the other. Thus on a cannon ball passing across the abdomen, the elasticity and ready mobihty of the skin may enable that structure to yield to the strain to which it is exposed, while viscera are ruptured by th€ projectile forcing them against the vertebral column. So the weight of a ball passing