LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. 209 and the deep fascia exposed. This is next to be laid open, but with care, for the basilic vein lies immediately below it, on the inner side of the brachial artery. The ulnar nerve will be found on the inner side of the vein, and the median in front of the artery, but there is no regularity in these relations ; much care is consequently required in finding the vessel." When in doubt as to the recognition of ulnar or median nei've—the former in the middle of the arm will be found passing downwards and backwards. The Bracliial Artery at the Bend of the Elbow.—The position of the median-basilic vein having been ascertained if possible^ a 2-incli incision, beginning at the level of the internal condyle, is to be placed parallel to, and usually above, the vein on the inner side of the tendon of the biceps, which is always to be readily felt, if not seen. The incision may be con- veniently made from above downwards on both sides of the body, the operator being between the arm and the trunk on the left side. The bicipital fascia, varying much in thickness, will be exposed by the first incision, and on dividing it with the knife and forceps, or, if preferred, upon a director slipped l^eneath it, the artery with its two veins will be found between the median nerve and the tendon of the biceps. The needle to be passed from the nerve. The Ulnar Artery, in the middle of the forearm, corresponds with a line drawn from the tip of the inner condyle to the radial side of the pisiform bone. This line marks the outer edge of the flexor carpi ulnaris. An incision 2| to 3 inches long in the middle third of this line should be made to expose the deep fascia, through which the white tendinous margin of the flexor carpi ulnaris can be perceived. An incision carried along this will allow the handle of the scalpel to separate the flexor ulnaris from the palmaris longus, or the flexor sublimis digitorum, until the ulnar nerve is exposed at the bottom of the wound. To the radial border of the iilnar nerve, the ulnar artery will be found with its two veins. The needle shoxild be passed from the nerve. If the incision is too much in front, the interval between the palmaris longus and flexor sublimis may be selected in error. The Ulnar Artery at the Wrist.—An incision 1^ to 2 inches in length is to be made along the radial border of the flexor carpi ulnaris imme- diately above the annular ligament. The first incision is to go through the fascia of the forearm, and expose the white border of the tendon. This being drawn inwards, another process of fascia ynM be seen binding down the ulnar artery, veins, and nerve to the flexors of the fingers. This fascia is to be picked up and opened directly over the artery, and, the veins having been separated, the needle is passed from the nerve, which is to the ulnar side of the vessels. The position of the pisiform must be correctly ascertained. The Radial Artery in the middle of the Forearm corresponds with a line drawn from the middle of the hollow in front of the elbow to the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. An incision, 2 to 2^ inches m length, should be made in the middle of the forearm, and should be carried at once through the deep fascia. In thin persons the incision will expose the border of the supinator longus, but in a fleshy arm that muscle 14