WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. 90 Symptoms of Wound of Lungs.—A penetrating wound of the chest may be accompanied by the following symptoms, which, taken as a whole or in connection with one another, may satisfy the surgeon that the lung has been wounded ; but they are not proof positive that such is the all may be present, and yet no wound of the lung :—Shock, sudden collapse, or fainting from haemorrhage, internally or externally ; the escape of blood and air through external wound of pale red colour and frothy ; continued issue of blood mixed with mucus from mouth during efforts of coughing; emphysema; deeply-fixed pain in the chest; irritation of larynx and spasmodic cough; difficulty of breathing. Shock, sudden collapse, or fainting, may occur with any severe wound. The escape of blood and air through the external wound may take place, in consequence of a wound of the intercostal or mammary artery, by air having been drawn into the cavity of the thorax during each expiration, expelled during inspiration, and so mingling with the blood. The issue of blood from the mouth, mixed with air, is looked upon as satisfactory evidence of wound of the lung; but it may arise from_other causes unconnected with the wound, and may therefore exist without a lung wound. Emphysema, which was considered by older surgeons to be proof positive of a wound of the lung, is now looked upon as a complication which may be caused by the admission of air into the chest through the external wound, and not finding ready egress during respiration, passes into the cellular tissue in the immediate neighbourhood of the external wound, and therefore cannot be considered as a diagnostic symptom of any value. The pain in the chest, cough, irritation of larynx, and difficulty of breathing with the continuance of blood in the mouth, or blood a?icZ especially mucus from the wound, may be considered the most reliable symptoms. . , ■ • When the wounds occur in civil life, the weapon causmg the mjury might be procured, and a certain amount of assistance afforded by examining it, and judging of its extent by the stains of blood on it; but in war there is no such help. v ■, . i It has been recommended to test the wound by holdmg a lighted candle opposite to it, and direct the patient to take a deep mspiration, when, if the candle is blown upon, it is a proof that the lung has been wounded. ^ „ . . -j.! Treatment of Penetrating Wound.—On first seemg a patient with a penetrating wound of the chest, an endeavour should be made to restore animation by the administration of beef-tea and cordials. Should reaction take place, distressing symptoms will cease ; haemorrhage may have been checked, and with a suitable bandage round the thorax, it is possible no bad symptoms wiU follow ; but blood may continue to be poured out in the cavity of the chest, causing pressure on the lungs, and consequent symptoms of distress, or it may come through the external wound, flooding the sufferer. j • t. v, Blood in Cavity of Chest.—If the blood is being poured mt9 the cavity of the chest, the surgeon will be warned by the cold perspiration the palHd countenance, faintings, the weak pulse, and distress m breathing.