ERYSIPELAS. 223 mercurial purge. Then the condition of the patient as regards con- stitution, age, and previous habits will be the best guide. Should he be young and robust, spare diet and diaphoretics, with the local application of warm carbolised or mercurial lotions, wiU be sufficient; but in men who have loeen exposed to privations, or who may be debilitated from any cause, when the disease assumes a lower tjqDe, ammonia, bark, camphor, tincture of the sesquichloride of iron, wine, and nutritious diet should he administered. The tincture of iron and also of quinine have been found most beneficial, acting speedily. In the milder forms, nothing cold should be applied. The part may be dusted with flour, starch-powder or peat-powder, and then covered up with cotton wool. Often hot fomentations of chamomile or poppy-heads will soothe the irritation that exists. Erichsen says—"At University College Hospital, the treatment recommended by Valette, of Lyons, has been tried in several cases with very good results. A 30 per cent._ solu- tion of perchloride of iron is pre^Dared (roughly gi of solid perchloride to §iv of water), forty minims of this solution may be given internally every two or three hours, and externally the pure solution is applied to the inflamed area. Valette insists that this must be done thoroughly, the solution must not merely be painted on, it must be rubbed in with a piece of lint or cotton wool. The application is repeated twice a day as long as it is necessary." Dr. Behrend, of Sarga, recommends washing the parts afltected with absolute alcohol three times a day. He says the progress of the disease is at once arrested. * Dr. Ebstein, of Breslau, advocates inunction with a 5 per cent, carbolic vaseline. * In the ceUulo-cutaneous form, the object is to prevent the inflamma- tion running into a state of gangrene ; for this purpose purgatives and diaphoretics should be administered in the first instance. If the disease advance to supjjuration or gangrene, it will be necessary to support the patient by tonics, stimulants, and generous diet. The parts should be kept at rest and elevated. Fomentations, with chamomile or poppy- head applications, may soothe the disease, but if it become brawny, indurated, and tense, and likely to advance to suppuration and gangrene, incisions should be made to relieve the tension—several small ones being preferable to one long one. The wounds should be dressed antiseptically with warm wet antiseptic lint covered with w^aterproof. The parts having first been sprinkled with iodoform, the limb should he. raised, and a smooth bandage applied firmly but evenly to assist the circulation in the weakened tissues, but iodoform cannot be relied upon alone, carbolic or sublimate lotion should be used in addition. _ Burrowing of pus under the skin must be prevented by following up sinuses and dividing unhealthy vascular connections. Tissues in a state of slough or gangrene will have to be gently removed, as their presence may produce most serious consequences by their decomposed condition. In the treatment of cellulitis, support may be required from the first. The local treatment is the same as in phlegmonous erysipelas. * Year Book, 1890.