53 WOUNDS. formerly, and their use is dispensed with at the earliest date possible. If not positively necessary, they no doubt keep up irritation and prevent healing. . i j. • " Sponges should be well washed after an operation, and then kept in a jar containing 1-20 carbohc solution; during an operation they are washed in a 1-40 solution. Sponges after use often become filled with fibrin, and thus rendered useless. Lister, therefore, after an operation places the sponges in a tank containing water, putrefaction of the fibrin occurs, and after some days the sponges can be easily cleaned. They are then placed in a 1-20 carbohc solution."—CAe^jie. In stitching up the wound, the edges of the wound should be brought closely and accurately together by silver wire or gut sutures rather deeply placed at regular intervals, and between these the edges of the skin should be correctly approximated by wire or catgut sutures. In the case of large or deep wounds made accidentally, or by gun- shot, where, perhaps, some hours have elapsed before the case comes under the surgeon's attention, the practice is somewhat different. Here septic germs may have gained access to the wound ; it is, therefore, most important to try and destroy them, and prevent others from gaining entrance. This would be best accomplished by thoroughly washing out the woimd or joint with a 1-20 carbolic solution, or 1-500* mercurial solution, by means of a syi-inge and catheter, taking care that the solution is brought in contact with every part, this will cause the wound to discharge freely for a while; a drainage tube should, therefore, be inserted, and the edges of the wound brought together by sutures, and the wound dressed with an antiseptic dressing so arranged as to be kept close to the surrounding sldn, and thus prevent the direct access of the air. The antiseptics chiefly in use are :— Carholic acid, which is used in a 1-40 and 1-20 solution in water, in a 1-5 solution with rectified spirit, also with oil or glycerine as 1-10 and 1-20; we also have carbolised cotton wool and tow. It is a powerful germicide, but it is extremely iri'itating, and interferes with healing by destroying granulation tissue. Healthy granulations are non-absorbent; if, however, the superficial layer of granulation tissue is destroyed, a weak spot is produced in which iDyogenic cocci can develoj), and through which they may enter the body; hence Cheyne doubts if it is well to wash out septic wounds so often as is done at j)resent, though of course it is right to remove decomposing discharge. Therefore, except in the first instance, to purify a wound, carbolic acid, if used at all, should never be aUowed to come in contact with the wound surface. It is l^oisonous and very volatile. Corrosive subiiinnte, or mercurial chloride, is a most powerful germi- cide. It is used in sohition, and in specially preisared dry absorbent dressings. The solution 1-500 may be used for all purposes that the 1-5 spirit solution of carbolic acid, or the 1-20 watery solution, would be applicable—i.e., for the thorough purification of accidental wounds or gun-shot injuries when first brought before the surgeon ; but after the * Vide formulee at the end of the book.