49 WOUNDS. bring about fat-embolism is a crushing violence to the bones, so that the cancellous texture is much broken up, and the medullary fat thus set free. The symptoms are apt to be taken as those of shock, occurrmg as they do in the first two or three days after the injury. Its onset is marked by transient attacks of dyspnoea, with irregular action of the heart, slight htemoptysis, and at first shallow breathing, at times in- terrupted by deep sighing inspirations, subsequently the peculiar form of breathing known as " Cheyne-Stokes" manifests itself. Collapse with marked pallor of skin and mucous membrane soon ensues ; fat has been detected in the urine. Czerny thinks this condition in a very slight degree is a constant attendant upon cases of fra.ctuTe.—Ena/clopcedia_of Surgery by Ashhurst. It has been observed as a result of other injuries besides fractures. WOUNDS, Wounds, how inflicted.—Wounds inflicted in war may be produced by missiles projected by some explosive material, such as bullets, gun shot, shrapnel, shells, grape and cannister shot, and slugs, which come under the head of gun-shot wounds. There are other wounds produced by sabre, bayonet, or lance, and indirectly by fragments of substances struck by bullets, shot, or shell, such as stones, wood, metal, and even by fragments of the bones of comrades, or by explosion of the engines of war above and below water. Arrow wounds are occasionally met with. Nature of Wounds.—From the depth to which wounds extend they are denominated superficial, muscular, and 2ifnetratmg : and from the nature of the weapon with which they have been inflicted they are characterised as incised, punctured, lacerated, and contused. Tliey may also be classified according to the region of the body, as, for instance, wounds of the head, face, thorax, abdomen, and extremities. Before describing the actual treatment of wounds it is necessary to say something about bacteriology which has (juite revolutionised surgical pathology, and consequently wound-treatment. Unless, indeed, these new facts are grasped by the surgeon, all modern treatment will be to him meaningless, and it will be impossible for him to take the pains, care, and time requisite for the proper and intelligent application of the dressings, consequently they are likely to be delegated to some nurse or attendant, and then astonishment may be ex^Dressed at the bad results. In a recent address* Sir J. Lister says—" The germ theory of septic diseases is indeed now happily established incontrovertibly. All now admit that septic mischief in our wounds depends upon the development of micro-organisms in them derived from without." Again, " For the successful antiseptic treatment of wounds two essential points are, of course, necessary. In the first place, we should 'proceed so as to leave nothing septic in the wound before we apply the dressing; and in the second place, we should put on such a dressing as we can thoroughly trust to keep out septic mischief until that dressing shall be changed; *"An Address on a new Antiseptic Dressing," by Sir Jos. Lister. Lancet, 9th Nov., 1899. 4