WOUNDS OF JOINTS. US directly after the expiration of the infiltration period, and before sup- puration commences. To carry out conservative treatment vi^ith the possibility of success, Langenbeck considers that the first and most important task is the immobilisation of the joint, and the suitable position of the patient. The wounded should therefore be left in the nearest field hospital, the first immovable bandage should be applied on the battlefield, and be so arranged that the probable unavoidable further transport to tbe first station of the army hospital, perhaps on a railway ambulance wagon, may be under- taken vvithimt great injury to the wound. A plaster of Paris bandage well put on, surrounding the pelvis and the entire extremity, would best answer these requirements, but as they are troublesome of application, and require much time and too many ex- perienced hands, Langenbeck does not recommend them during a great battle, but suggests flat hollow splints, fitting round the back of the pelvis and of the entire wounded extremity, leaving the fore part of the hip-joint free. He also speaks in favour of the " zinc tablets " suggested by Dr. Schon of the Austrian army. Permanent extension by means of a weight is of the greatest import- ance. Active probing of the shot canal is objectionable, especially when it has been decided to ti-eat tbe wound conservatively, as it must impair the chance of a favourable healing. With regard to extraction of the bullet, he is of opinion that if it is perceived in the neighbourhood of the joint, its extraction is necessary. Bone sphnters, if they lie quite loose in the wound, may be extracted, especially if they are likely to interfere with the shot canal, or prevent the discharge of secretions from the wound. Eepeated vigorous attempts to take bone splinters out of fresh wounds are altogether inadmissible. Free incisions are of the greatest im- portance for letting out blood which may be retained in the joint, or for collections of matter. Ice is recommended in Germany in the treatment of all recent joint wounds. Excision of the Hip-joint for gun-shot woimds was performed in the Crimea, in the Schleswig-Holstein campaigns, during the American War of the KebelUon, and during the Franco-German War of 1870-71, but the result with few exceptions was far from satisfactory, due in many instances to the want of proper means for carrying out the after-treat- ment. Yet, till Professor Langenbeck published his experiences, excision was advocated for certain wounds in preference to conservative treat- ment, and with suitable means for the after-treatment, one cannot but tlnnk it Mould be preferable, seeing the splendid results which the opera- tion sometimes affords in civil life. Excision was first recommended by Mi-. Guthrie as a substitute for amputation at the hip-joint; he limited the operation to injuries of the head and neck of the bone, or with little extension bej'ond these parts. Mr. Hamilton, U.S.A., considers that when a ball has entered the head, neck, or trochanteric portion of the femur, if any surgical operation is demanded in these cases, it is excision. 10