WOUNDS OF THE EXTREMITIES. 129 of the thigh, says- " We have not in our possession full statistics of the present war, but sufficient facts have come to our knowledge to indicate that there has been, on the part of our surgeons, a large amount oi conservatism, especially in reference to the treatment of gun-shot injuries to the thigh. Our own impression is that in those injuries conservatism has ruled too much, and that amputations have been too little practised." To guide the surgeon as to when he ought not to attempt to save the limb, but proceed to amputation at the thigh after a gun-shot fracture, he lays down certain rules, which are as follows :— " When a patient has to be carried far over rough roads, and without adequate support to the limbs. " When the bones are greatly comminuted. "When the patient suffers great pain, or violent spasms continue in spite of opiates and rest. '' When the soft parts have suffered great contusion, as in the case of a fracture from solid shot or shell. '' When there is very extensive laceration of the soft parts. " When the principal arteries or nerves are involved in the injuries. " When the fracture implicates the knee-joint, or even when it is near the knee-joint." " Under the following circumstances we would not, as a rule, resort to amputation:— " When the ball has entered the head, neck, or trochanteric portion of the femur; if any surgical operation is demanded in these cases, it is usually ex-section. " When the fracture is just below the trochanters; experience having shown that very few recover after these amputations. " When the fracture of the femur is caused by a pistol-ball, by a round musket-ball, or by any missile whose force is nearly spent. " It wiU be understood that the last observation has reference solely to the less degree of comminution which these missiles usually occasion. " The following conditions miist be added as essential to the success of conservative measures:— " All pieces of bone which are only slightly attached to the soft parts must be removed. " All foreign bodies, such as fragments of balls or other missiles, pieces of cloth, wadding, &c., must be carefully taken away. Whatever binds or obstructs the external opening, and prevents the free escape of blood or of pus, must be divided or removed. "The limb must be placed in a position of absolute rest, and must remain at rest. It must not be confined by tight bandages, or forcibly extended by apparatus. " If the knee-joint be implicated, it must be laid freely open and placed at perfect rest, without adhesive straps, bandages, or other means of compression. " During the whole treatment, the limb must be handled with great care and not lifted rouglily or carelessly. When sinuses form, the matter must be let out by direct or counter-openings, and not by violent pushing and thumbing. 9