THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 194 chronic inflammation is being opened up, the possibility of finding a seques- trum should not be lost sight of. As will be mentioned immediately, circumscribed abscess sometimes occurs under these circumstances and in the same way a piece of dead bone may, though very rarely, be found; if found it must be removed and then there is usually comparatively little trouble in obtaining ready healing. If a deep cavity be left in the bone, bone-grafts may be at once introduced; or it may be left to heal by blood- clot. In any case the wound must be stitched up closely with a continuous suture. PHOSPHORUS NECROSIS. Phosphorus as a cause of necrosis requires special mention; the parti- cular form which produces necrosis is the yellow phosphorus, not the red, and practically the lower jaw is always the bone affected. The disease is probably purely local; the phosphorus comes into contact with the bone through the medium of carious teeth. The gums become ulcerated and the inflammatory affection spreads to the periosteum and thus leads to the formation of spongy outgrowths from the bone. The gum becomes separated from the alveoli, foetid pus is constantly poured out, and a large area of the jaw becomes affected. Indeed, the entire bone may in this way lose its vitality. The phosphorus sequestrum, therefore, is not merely normal bone that has died, but consists of the original bone with large spongy osteophytic growths on the surface. Recent researches ^ seem to show that the condition is really a tuber- culous one, and that the phosphorus merely predisposes the tissues to tuberculous infection. Treatment.—Prophylaxis.—The first essential is to see that the patient works only in red or amorphous phosphorus and not in the yellow form. Further, the most scrupulous care should be taken to wash the hands thoroughly before meals, because it is probable that much of the mischief is due to particles of phosphorus coming into contact with the food, rather than to the actual phosphorus vapour. Another point of the first im- portance in prophylaxis is that the gums and teeth should be carefully watched while the patient is at work, and at the first sign of ulceration the work should be given up and antiseptic washes, such as sanitas or Condy's fluid, used until the ulceration is cured; any carious teeth should receive appropriate treatment. When the disease is established.—Working in phosphorus should be abandoned at once. There are two alternatives in treatment, viz., either to wait for the separation of the necrosed fragment, or to excise the affected portion of the jaw at once, leaving the osteo- genetic layer of the periosteum intact as far as possible. The separation of the sequestrum in these cases is extremely slow, and a very long time ^See Prof. Ralph Stockman, Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. 7, 1899.