CHAPTER V. FRACTURES OF THE PELVIS. These injuries are generally of a very serious character on account of the lesions of various important organs that may accompany them. They may best be considered under the heads of fractures of the pelvic ring as a whole, and fractures of the individual bones of the pelvis. FRACTURES OF THE PELVIS AS A WHOLE. SEATS.—Fracture of the pelvic girdle may be produced in a variety of ways ; it is commonly caused by the passage of a heavy body, such as a cart, over the pelvis, so that the latter is crushed between it and the ground. The fracture is not uncommonly bilateral; it may be situated on either side of the symphysis, or just outside the symphysis on one side and close to the sacro-iliac synchondrosis on the other. The fracture outside the symphysis generally passes through the horizontal ramus of the pubes and the ascending ramus of the ischium, these two points being the weakest in the pelvic girdle. COMPLICATIONS.—When fracture occurs, one portion of the broken pelvis is often driven inwards and damages the parts immediately beneath. Various structures may be injured in this way; the one most commonly involved is the urethra, the condition of which must always be investigated in all fractures of the pelvis. The existence of a laceration is indicated by bleeding from the meatus; the laceration is generally in the mem- branous portion and the urethra may be completely or partially torn across. This injury is dangerous, as it may be followed by extravasation of urine, and it is therefore of the very highest importance to ascertain its presence and to adopt appropriate treatment immediately. The bladder is the structure next most frequently injured ; this is especially likely to happen if it be di.stended at the time of the accident. The rectum, the vagina, the femoral or the iliac vessels may also be lacerated. TREATMENT.—When the pelvic girdle is fractured, the first points requiring attention are the collapse, which is always present and is generally