257 AMPUTATION THROUGH THE FORE-ARM. low one of these points and is made to trace a short anterior flap terminating at a corresponding point on the opposite side. When this is done, a similar posterior flap is marked out (see Fig. 82). The two flaps combined should be equal to slightly more than the diameter of the limb at the point at which the bones are to be divided, the additional length being required to allow for shrinking of the flap from retraction of the muscles. These latter are divided by a series of circular sweeps, the periosteum divided on the same level as the muscles and peeled up by a raspatory to the point at which the saw is to be applied (see p. 227). In sawing the bones care must be taken to avoid splintering, and they should therefore be held quite horizontal and the saw made to cut each bone to the same depth. When the division is nearly complete, however, the section of the radius should be finished off first as it is the more moveable bone and the ulnar can be better steadied. The vessels requiring ligature are the radial, the ulnar, and the interosseous arteries, of which only the latter are at all difificult to secure : they lie close upon the interosseous membrane and retract when they are cut. After the vessels have been secured, the tube of periosteum is pulled down over the ends of the bones and the wound is stitched up, a small drainage tube being inserted at one angle. The object of peeling up the periosteum i.s to guard against a fusion of the cut ends of the bones; this would involve loss of pronation and supination. The arm is placed upon an internal rectangular splint with the fore-arm midway between pronation and supination. After about ten days the wound should have healed, the stitches may be taken out and the splint left off In all cases the limb should be put up in the above position, so that, should fusion of the ends of the bones occur, the limb is in the most advantageous position for the application of an artificial extremity. Fig. 82.—MoniFiED Circular Amputa- tion THROUGH THE Fore-arm. The flaps are antero-posterior and of equal length. The dotted line marks the point of section of the bones. AMPUTATION THROUGH THE ELBOW JOINT. This is not nearly so frequently done as is amputation above or below the articulation; chiefly because the large size of the lower end of the humerus necessitates comparatively long flaps, and therefore the operation can only be done when the soft parts at the disposal of the surgeon are. comparatively abundant. It should however be performed wherever possible, as of course the increased length of the stump is of advantage, and the expanded end of the bone gives a better point of support for an artificial limb. The operation is usually done for a tumour affecting one f'T. III. R