258 AMPUTATIONS. or both of the bones of the fore-arm and sometimes for crushes of the latter; it can be but rarely performed for elbow-joint disease. In many cases it is found necessary to make irregular flaps, but wherever it is possible, it is best to make a long antero-internal and a short postero-external flap. It is important in providing a covering for the lower end of the humerus to bear in mind the large size and irregular shape of the bone, and also the exact position of the elbow joint. It is hardly necessary to remark that the line of the latter does not correspond to the tip of the olecranon. The best guide is the head of the radius, the position of which is easily found by placing the thumb immediately beneath the external condyle and pronating and supinating the fore-arm. The upper limit of the radial head usually lies about half an inch below the most prominent part of the condyle, and may be taken as a good guide to the line of the joint. By a large antero-internal flap. An elastic bandage is placed around the upper third of the arm, the elbow is flexed to an angle of 135°, and the antero-internal flap marked out. This commences at the centre of the bend of the elbow, and is carried down parallel with the long axis of the humerus for about three inches; with the arm at the angle above mentioned, the lower limit of the incision should meet the inner border of the fore-arm at about this point. The incision is then curved backwards and upwards to the base of the olecranon. After this flap has been marked out, a somewhat similar one is cut from the external surface, but this should only be about an inch in length (see Fig. 83). When these flaps are retracted, the soft structures are taken up right down to the bone. Disarticulation is performed by forcibly flexing the elbow, cutting the triceps through at its attachment to the olecranon and then dividing first the lateral and then the anterior ligaments. It is recommended by some authors that the base of the olecranon should be sawn through and left in situ so as to preserve the attachment of the triceps ; this however is not of any real advantage. The large antero-internal flap will be found to fold completely over the lower end of the humerus, and to cover up the prominent internal condyle without any risk of exposure of that structure even should the flaps The vessels requiring ligature are the brachial itself, which of course should be secured before the Esmarch's bandage is taken off", and a few smaller vessels, such as the terminations of the superior and inferior profunda arteries and some of the anastomotic branches about the joint. A drainage tube should be inserted at the upper angle of the flaps Fig. 83. - Amputa- tion THROUGH THE Elbow Joint by a Long Internal Flap. The incision for the large internal flap is carried up to a corre- sponding point behind the joint. The relative length of the flaps may be varied to suit the circumstances of the case. retract somewhat.