RICKETS. 209 of milk. If the mother be unable to suckle her child, a wet nurse is the best substitute, and failing this the child should be fed on cow's milk which is at first diluted with double the amount of water or barley water, and to which a little sugar of milk is added; later on, cow's milk may be given pure. When the child is about nine months old, some farinaceous food, such as oatmeal, may be mixed with the milk, but it should be given in small quantity; the bulk of the diet should consist of milk. The patent foods and biscuits that are so commonly used should not be administered at all until the child is nearly a year old, and then only sparingly. When the child is about a year old, the addition of meat to the diet should be made. At first an egg once or twice a week, and on other days a little gravy and potato, or gravy and bread is sufficient; the child should not take solid animal food until towards the end of the second year. The child should be placed under good hygienic conditions, should be out in the open air as much as possible, should take advantage of the sunshine to the utmost, and if possible should be sent to the sea-side or to the country; the clothing should be of flannel. The following regulations are in use at the Children's Hospital, Paddington Green, and may be taken as a type of regulations suitable for outpatient cases; they may easily be adapted for use in private practice. FEEDING. 1. Between 9 and 12 months. Give cow's milk warmed and slightly sweetened. Not Swiss or any form of condensed milk. If diarrhoea or sickness comes on, or curds appear in the motions, boil the milk and add one part of lime, barley, or rice-water to two parts of milk. Give twice a day a meal of milk, thickened with Robb's biscuit or wheat flour, or Mellin's, Ridge's or Savory and Moore's Food. Nestle's Food, which does not require milk, may also be given. All infants' foods should be given in small quantities at first. 2. At 12 months. Besides milk, thickened as above, eggs with milk, gravy with bread-crumb, or well-mashed potato may be given ; also rice, sago, arrowroot, semolina with milk ; gruel and oatmeal porridge. 3- At 18 months. Give once a day a little fresh fish, such as plaice, or in addition, finely minced mutton. Food should still be almost entirely milk and all things made with milk. Do not give cheese, pastry, shellfish, salt fish, unripe fruit, nuts, sweets, tea, wine, beer or spirits. Feed al regular limes—rxoi every time the child cries. 4. Between 9 and 15 months. Feed, by day, every three hours, and once during the night. Give one and a half to two pints of milk daily—plain, thickened and in puddings. S- After that age feed every four hours by day, and give one pint of milk to drink during the day. Do not feed at night. On no account keep the child at the breast after it is nine months old. Mother's milk is useless to the child after that age : and suckling is most injurious to the mother. It is a mistake to suppose that suckling after this time prevents pregnancy. PT. III. O