130 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. likely to form, and a stiff joint not infrequently follows the injury to the knee or to the soft structures in its neighbourhood. Hodgen's spli?it.—It is quite clear that the lower fragment cannot be brought into a line with the upper by horizontal traction. Therefore the fracture must be put up with the knee and the thigh flexed, and extension will also be required to pull the lower fragment downwards. For this purpose a Hodgen's .suspension splint with the wire frame bent almost to a right angle at the knee may be employed. Before applying it, the patient should be put under an anaesthetic, extension applied, and the fragment manipulated into position. Maclntyre's splint.—After three or four weeks the Hodgen's splint may be given up and a Maclntyre's, bent at a considerable angle, substituted for it; this should be continued until consolidation has taken place, which will be in from about six to eight weeks. Fractures in this region are essentially those in wliich careful massage and passive movement are desirable. They should be employed from the commencement on account of the great tendency to stiff knee. For a description of the method, see p. 30. If the knee joint has been punctured by the upper fragment, there will almost certainly be ^dhesions; if these be allowed to become firm, the treatment will be much more difficult, as they can only be overcome at a late stage by forcible movement followed by massage and passive motion. Operation.—Even with the greatest care, however, these fractures are apt to give very unsatisfactory results, and in some cases the best treat- ment is undoubtedly operative. It may be taken as a good rule that at the end of the first week a skiagram should be taken, and, should this show that the bones are not in proper position, the fracture should be cut down upon. The incision should be made at the outer side of the limb, and care should be taken to avoid opening the knee joint if possible by keeping well to the side. When the fracture is exposed, the broken ends are manipulated into position, while an assistant makes extension ; the ends are then pegged or screwed together if the fracture be oblique, or wired if it be transverse. The wound is sewn up without a drainage tube, cyanide dressings are applied, and the limb is placed on a Maclntyre's splint without any further extension, the knee being flexed rather beyond a right angle. The dressings should be changed in a week, the stitches taken out, and a collodion dressing applied ; massage and passive move- ment may then be begun with a view of preventing adhesions, care being taken to fix the fragments with both hands while the movements are being carried out. Compound fracture. — When these supra-condyloid fractures are compound great care must be taken to thoroughly disinfect the parts, and special investigation must be made in- order to see whether the knee joint is wounded. The wound should be laid freely open, the usual methods for disinfection employed, and the fragments wired or screwed together. If the joint be wounded, the opening into it should be enlarged