AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE LEG. and extending about an inch higher up. The lower ends of these incisions are connected by cutting across the front of the limb in a direction transverse in the main, but rounded off where it joins the lateral lines. The knife is next carried round the back of the limb to the bone, from the upper end of the internal incision to a point exactly opposite on the outer side, which will be about an inch below the upper end of the outer incision; the instrument being carried in a line slightly convex downwards so as to form a very short posterior flap. The anterior flap is then raised in the manner above mentioned (by peeling up the tissues with the thumb) including everything in front of the bones and interosseous membrane; after which the tibia and fibula are cleared as high as the level of the upper end of the outer incision, the finger-tip being still used in detaching the parts anterior to the interosseous membrane. In order to avoid splintering the fibula, it is best to saw both bones at the same time, and to finish the fibula before the tibia. The sharp angle of the spine of the tibia being apt to cause ulceration of the skin over it, should be removed; and the most con- venient way of doing this is to commence with sawing obliquely for a short distance from a point about half an inch above the place where the bones are to be divided transversely (see Fig. 73, B). " Supposing effectual antiseptic treatment em- ployed, the cutaneous margins of the flaps may be stitched very closely, except at the upper end of the outer incision, which is left open for the drain, and serves admirably for the purpose, as it leads directly from the cut surfaces of the bones and is dependent in position, from the circumstance that the limb reposes on its outer side. Accurate stitching is desirable elsewhere in consequence of the disproportion of the sizes of the two flaps, which, however, is diminished by making a short posterior flap as advised." .In raising the anterior flap, special care must be taken to avoid damage to the anterior interosseous artery which lies immediately upon the front of the interosseous membrane. Therefore, in this situation the knife must not be used more than is absolutely necessary, and the tissues should be peeled off the membrane by means of the fingers or the handle of the knife. Before sawing the bones the interosseous membrane is divided with the knife. If the end of the tibia be rounded off, as is directed above, the stump very soon becomes able to bear considerable pressure, as the skin over the ends of the bones becomes thickened and closely resembles that upon Fig. 94. — Lister's Amputa- tion THROUGH THE LeG. The vertical incision over the fibula extends about an inch higher up the limb than the corresponding one on the inner side. The ampu- tation is shown unduly high up the limb.