FRACTURES OF THE FIBULA ALONE. afterwards the apparatus is reapplied, and any bandages that require it may be tightened up. The case demands careful watching to see that the bandages do not stretch and allow the eversion to recur. After about ten days—when the swelling will have gone down and there will no longer be the same tendency to eversion of the foot—the limb should be put up in a Croft's splint, with the foot at right angles as already described; the later treatment, passive movements, etc., will be same as before. In some cases there is very marked displacement of the heel backwards; this occurs chiefly when the fracture has been caused by a fall in which the violence is applied to the ankle in the outward and backward direction. This backward displacement is much more difficult to overcome than the eversion so commonly met with in the ordinary Pott's fracture; in order to rectify it the splint known as Svme's horseshoe splint was introduced. Fig. 62.—Svme's Hokse-Shoe Splint. The sling embracing the lieel may be made . of elastic webbing. The smaller figure shows the method of rolling up lint to make tile padding. The splint is very commonly supplied with two holes bored in its upper end. It is then secured to the upper part of the leg in a manner very similar to that shown in Fig. 61, A. This is a wooden splint about the breadth of the leg, extending from the tubercle of the tibia to the instep, where it is hollowed out so that it ends in two prongs which pass down, one on either side of the foot, and project beyond the sole. This splint is applied to the front of the leg and is used to bring the heel forward; the important point to remember in using it is that pressure on the crest of the tibia must be carefully avoided, for, unless the padding be carefully arranged, a pressure sore may occur along its whole length. This is best avoided by arranging the padding in the follow- ing manner (see Fig. 62). /V sheet of boracic lint of sufficient length and of width corresponding to the length of the splint is taken, and its two ends are rolled up from each side so as to meet in the middle, in the same way as a double roller bandage. The lint is then applied so that one roll lies on either side of the crest of the tibia, that over the inner side of the tibia being somewhat thicker than that on the outer; the pad thus made should be sufficiently thick to prevent the splint touching the