124 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. pegs. This is an unnecessary disturbance of parts, because in recent frac- tures tliere is usually nothing between the. fragments requiring removal, and all that is necessary is to expose the surface of the bone sufficiently, get the fragments into position, and then to insert a couple of square ivory pegs or suitable screws; this operation has already been described (see p. 51). During and after this mechanical fixation the limb must of course be most carefully steadied; the immobilisation must be main- tained while the wound is stitched up, the dressings applied, and the splints put on. The best splints to use for this purpose are four short Gooch's splints, which can be folded accurately round the limb; if preferred, a Croft's plaster case may be employed. At the same time a long outside splint should be put on, and it is well to employ a certain amount of extension for the first week or ten days so as to steady the muscles and hinder them from loosening the screws; four or five pounds is usually quite sufficient. These fractures require from eight to ten weeks for thorough union. Fig. 47.—Vertical Extension for Fractured Femur in Children. The affected limb is vertical, while the sound one is merely looped up to the bar in order to keep it well off the bed. No splints are required. In children.—In very young children it is extremely difficult to treat these fractures satisfactorily with the limb in the horizontal position. The chief objection is that any apparatus rapidly gets soiled and requires changing. The smallness of the limb also renders it very difficult to secure a splint properly, and therefore the fracture does not remain at rest. Even plaster of Paris and silicate casings are open to the same objection, for, although they fix the limb fairly well, they readily get soiled, and become soft and useless, while the skin is irritated and may ulcerate. Vertical extension.—In all children under five years of age it is best