THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. i68 the astragalus. The results as regards movement of the foot after extracting the astragalus are remarkably good, whereas if the piece of broken bone were left in the ankle it can hardly be imagined that a satisfactor)- result could be obtained. Some information as to the exact condition of the bone might be obtained by a skiagram. FRACTURE OF THE OS CALCIS.—The most common fracture of the bones of the foot is fracture of the os calcis, which may occur from falls from a height upon the heel or from the foot being run over by a heavy waggon. The result is often complete comminution of the upper part of the os calcis, or the posterior portion to which the tendo Achillis is attached may be broken off. Treatment.—-We shall refer to the treatment of two conditions, namely, that in which there is an extensive comminuted fracture, and that in which the posterior portion is detached. When there is an extensive co7nminuted fracture of the OS calcis the heel feels like a bag of bones and it is a difificult matter to bring the parts into good position. The best plan under these circumstances is to hold the heel in position while the patient is under an anaesthetic and to put on a plaster of Paris casing so moulded as to bring the heel and the os calcis to a proper shape ; this is held whilst it sets, and the foot can then be slung with the knee bent so as to relax the calf muscles. In these cases any resulting disability will be in connection with the trans- verse tarsal joint, not with the ankle joint, and the apparatus should therefore be taken down from time to time for the performance of passive movement, especially in the direction of adduction and abduction of the transverse tarsal joint. Special care should be taken to prevent the occurrence of a valgus condition. In compoutid fracture of the os calcis the treatment must of course be on the ordinary lines for the treatment of compound fracture, but if the bone be hopelessly broken up or if the chance of getting the part aseptic be very slight, it is perhaps as well simply to excise all the loose fragments ; the parts that are intact with periosteum covering them may be left and will help to form a new os calcis. The results of excision of the OS calcis under these conditions are so very satisfactory that it is hardly worth while running any serious risk in order to preserve a quantity of loose pieces of bone which are very apt to become septic. When there is fracture of the posterior part of the os calcis, and when the fragment is tilted or drawn upwards by the tendo Achillis, the best procedure is to turn down a flap with its convexity upwards and peg or tack the fragment of bone into position ; the flap should reach high enough up the back of the ankle to escape friction from the hard part of the boot. Unless this be done, a projecting piece of bone will be left which will cause much pain when a boot is worn and will have to be chipped off later. Fractures of the other tarsal bones are comparatively rare except as a result of a general smash of the foot: as they are usually compound