THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 64 TREATMENT.—In fractures of the body of the scapula the im- portant point is to keep the bone at rest until union has taken place. With this object the elbow, supported by an assistant, is held slightly away from the side, and a thick layer of cotton wool is applied over the back of the scapula and firmly secured in position by a firm broad bandage or by strips of strapping applied around the side of the thorax, so as to bind the bone to the chest wall. After powdering the axilla with boracic powder, the fore-arm is put in a sling which supports the elbow, the arm is brought to the side, a ring-pad inserted between the internal condyle of the humerus and the ribs, and the arm bandaged firmly to the chest. Some starch solution is then rubbed into the bandages to prevent them from slipping. This apparatus should be kept on until the end of the third week, when the patient may be encouraged to move the arm freely. Fracture of the acromion process is a much more difficult matter to treat. The ideal treatment, no doubt, is to place the patient in bed in the horizontal position, with the arm stretched out at right angles to the side of the chest, so as to fully relax the deltoid, and thus to prevent it from pulling the fragment downwards. But this position is most irksome, and will hardly ever be tolerated ; the best alternative is to push up the head of the humerus against the under surface of the acromion, and to fix it there, with the object of keeping the fragment as nearly as possible in its normal position. No pad should be inserted in the axilla, as other- wise the head of the humerus will not act properly on the acromion; a small pad should be placed between the internal condyle and the ribs, and the fore-arm should be flexed across the chest. Then both the arm and the fore-arm are firmly bound to the side by a bandage or by strapping. It is well to keep the arm in this position for a month at least, but in many cases a certain amount of deformity persists, the point of the acromion being somewhat tilted downwards. This, however, gives rise to no real disability. Fracture of the neck of the scapula is readily reduced by pushing up the elbow, which should be kept in that position until union occurs. The axilla should be powdered and a pad placed in it; the arm is then supported by a large elbow-sling and is bound to the side by a handker- chief or bandages. If bandages be employed, they should not only encircle the chest and arm, but should also pass diagonally below the elbow on the affected side and over the opposite shoulder, so as to give additional support to the arm. This apparatus must be kept on for at least four or five weeks; if removed earlier, the deformity is almost certain to recur. As, however, stiffness of the shoulder joint is very liable to result from the presence of adhesions within the capsule, it will be necessary after the lapse of about a week to commence passive motion, taking care to fix the fragment with one hand in the axilla while the arm is moved by the other or by an assistant. This passive movement should at first be very gentle