125 FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. to suspend the fractured limb in the vertical position at right angles to the trunk, as proposed by Mr. Bryant; all discharges then pass backwards, there is no possibility of the apparatus becoming soiled, and it is quite easy to keep up efficient extension. A stirrup is applied to the affected limb extending as high as the lower part of the thigh, and to this a cord is fastened which is attached to a bar arranged above the cot or bed, directly over the pelvis, and running between two uprights, one at either end of the bed, of sufficient height to allow of the limb being extended (see Fig. 47). The affected limb should be drawn up so that the buttocks are just clear of the bed, and it is well also to suspend the sound limb to the bar, so that it is impossible for the child to put it on the bed ; otherwise he might support the weight of the pelvis upon the sound limb and so nullify the extension. The sound limb should however only be raised sufficiently for this purpose, and no actual extension should be applied to it. Under no circumstances should both limbs be fastened to the same back splint, and vertical extension then be applied, as is sometimes recommended. In this method the weight of the pelvis acts as a constantly extending force ; there is no necessity to apply any splint, as the child keeps still, and the result is all that could be wished for. Bryant's double splint.—In children over the age of five the best splint is perhaps that known as Bryant's. It consists of two long parallel outside splints with bracketted interruptions opposite the trochanter, and connected above and below by adjustable metal bars, which allow for the a Fig. 48.—The Douhi.e Splint for Fracture of the Feimur. A shows the form originally suggested by Mr. Bryant. The lateral splints can be .appro.ximated or separated by the metal bars at a and The sound limb is fastened to the footpiece on the side tr, while the fractured one is secured to d, upon which the extension acts ; c and ./ are inter- ruptions in the splint opposite the trochanter to allow the limbs to be kept paiallel. In B is shown the detail of the lower part of one side splint in which e.\lension is made by means of a stirrup which is attached to the piece of wood ^. This gives more effectual extension, as it cannot jam, as does the footpiece running in a slot. separation or approximation of the splints according to the size of the patient. The sound limb is fastened firmly to the splint by strapping or bandages, while to the injured limb extension is applied, preferably by means of a