292 AMPUTATIONS. also to add an additional one behind, and to carry the tubing twice round the thigh and pelvis. Various other methods of preventing the htemorrhage are employed, the next most satisfactory to the one described being the application of Esmarch's tubing around the abdomen so as to compress the abdominal aorta; but the objection to this plan is that it rather increases the shock owing to the pressure upon the nerves of the abdomen. Should it be decided to employ this method, it is best done by taking a piece of wood about three inches wide, and about four inches longer than the transverse diameter of the trunk opposite the umbilicus, and placing it, padded with a thick folded towel, transversely beneath the patient opposite the last lumbar vertebra. A large pad of boracic lint or a Fig. 99.—Abdominal Tourniquet for use in Amputations at the Hip Joint. A thick folded towel should be interposed between the spine and the transverse board. small folded tovvel, is then placed over the abdominal aorta, and, the patient being raised, the elastic tubing is passed transversely around the body across the front of the abdomen over the pad and around the ends of the wooden bar (see Fig. 99). The object of this is to compress the vessels satisfactorily whilst at the same time avoiding undue lateral com- pression of the abdominal walls. Among other contrivances we may mention Lister's tourniquet, which was one of the first employed for arresting haemorrhage in amputation at the hip joint. Another instrument was introduced by Mr. Davy and is known as " Davy's lever." This consists of a rod which is passed up the rectum and compresses the common iliac artery through the rectal wall against the sacro-iliac synchondrosis. Neither of these plans how- ever is to be recommended. Lister's tourniquet, by its firm unyielding compression, is "apt to do considerable damage to the contents of the abdomen, whilst with Davy's lever it has happened more than once that the point has been pushed through the wall of the rectum and the patient