25 FRACTURES : GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. malleoli and just above and below the knee, and then put on a bandage outside this. No doubt this prevents the strapping from slipping more effectually than does the bandage alone, but as the strapping slips it pulls on the circular bands, and is therefore apt to lead to constriction of the limb. A small square of wood, a little wider than the transverse diameter of the ankle and with a hole through the middle of it, is then attached to the free lower ends of the strapping. This is readily done by splitting these ends for about half an inch, and fixing them over the under surface of the piece of wood. The slit in each piece lies over the central hole in the wood, and through this hole is passed the cord from the weight extension ; on the upper surface of the wood it is tied into a large knot so that it will not slip out. The fixation of the wood in the strapping is completed by narrow strips passing transversely around the broader pieces (see Fig. 13, b). This wooden foot-piece should be absolutely at right angles to the axis of the limb, and should not touch the sole anywhere. The free end of the cord is then passed over the pulley and the weights are attached to it, the pulley being so arranged that the cord and weights swing free of the Fig. 14.—Wei(;ii i Kxtknsion appi.ieu to thk Lower LiiMD. The limb, with tlie stirrup apphed as shown in Fig. 13, is extended by means of a cord p.assing over the pulley shown m Fig. 12. The foot of the bed is raised on blocks to provide counter- cxten.sion. bed. The weight employed depends upon the muscularity of the limb and the degree of contraction of the muscles; it usually varies from four to eight pounds. The apparatus should be carefully examined from time to time to see that it does not slip; it generally requires to be renewed every ten days or so. It is also important to see that the toes do not become pointed. The metatarsal bones should be supported by a sling, the ends of which are pinned to the bandage around the leg, and the pressure of the bed-clothes should be avoided by using a cradle. Tnirther, it is im-