2IO THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. CLOTHING. They should always wear flannel next the skin. By Nigh.t I A long flannel night-gown, fastened below the feet and at the wrists and throat. Let them sleep in cots by themselves—never in a draught, or between the window or fireplace and the door. "Bed-clothes should be warm and light. Keep the window open all night in warm weather. Keep a small fire burning all night in cold weather. By Day (a) a flannel vest fitting closely round the neck—loosely elsewhere. All other clothing about the chest should be loose and warm. {d) A well-fitting flannel binder round the belly reaching from just below the hips to the lowest part of the breast bone. (f) Flannel Drawers should always be worn. They may be buttoned on to the binder, to which shoulder-straps should be added. The binder will then not slip up or down. {d) In cold weather warm stockings or woollen gaiters reaching to the top of the legs should be worn. All under-clothing as well as bed-clothes should be well aired before use. GENERAL DIRECTIONS. 1. Keep them out of doors most of the day in fine weather. Do not let them be carried by other children not much bigger than themselves. Get a perambulator in which they can lie down. Wrap them up well, and use as a foot-warmer in cold weather a strong wine- bottle filled with hot water and placed in a thick stocking. 2. Keep them clean. Wash them all over night and morning with soap and warm water. Dry carefully with a soft warm towel. Then with the open hand chafe and rub the limbs from below upwards until the skin is rogy. The limbs should be rubbed one by one, the rest kept covered meanwhile. The back, if weak, should also be rubbed. Children will not take cold if they are carefully dried, especially the head and ears, and are well warmed after the bath. 3. Children with bow legs or knock knees should not be allowed to stand, walk, or crawl. If their backs are growing out, they should be kept lying on their backs. The only drugs which seem to be of any special service are cod-liver oil and phosphorus. Cod-liver oil should always be given in rickets, even Avhen the children seem to be well nourished. The best way to administer it is in one of the practically tasteless emulsions; the dose is a teaspoonful three or four times a day after food, and fortunately children rather like it than otherwise, so that there is usually no difficulty in getting them to take it. Phosphorus is also a very useful drug in doses of a hundredth of a grain, which is best given mixed with the cod-liver oil. The compound syrup of phosphates (Parrish's food), and syrupus ferri phosphatis are also good, but pure phosphorus is better. Iron may be of use in pale anjemic children, and the best form is probably the tinct. ferri perchlor., given