246 AMPUTATIONS. down towards the tip of the finger. When the flap is of sufficient length, the cutting edge of the knife is turned at right angles to the skin which is then divided (see Fig. 76, B). Very few vessels require ligature, generally none at all, as only the terminations of the digital arteries are divided. In this way a long rectangular palmar flap is made which can be turned up over the head of the second phalanx and united to the skin on the dorsum. A mistake often made is to cut the flap of a pointed or triangular shape, either from carelessness in not making the knife follow the anterior aspect of the bone closely, or from continuing the knife in the horizontal direction until it cuts its way out, instead of turning it at right angles to the skin when finishing off the flap. In order to cut the flap satisfactorily it is necessary to have a knife with a narrow blade which is of equal breadth throughout,— in other words, a bistoury and not a scalpel. The situation of the inter-phalangeal joint can almost always be determined by the guide given above; if not, it may be remembered that the line of the joint is a little below the prominence formed by the head of the second phalanx when the joint is fully flexed. Should the surgeon not happen to have a suitable narrow bistoury at hand, he can first of all cut the palmar flap from without inwards, and then proceed with the rest of the amputation as described above. In aseptic cases, where there is no disorganisation of the joint, it is unnecessary to do anything to the head of the second phalanx; its cartilage may be left behind and gives no trouble. When, however, the operation is performed for septic affections, such as whitlow, or when there has been a bad crush or lacerated wound of the tip of the finger, the articular cartilage should be removed from the head of the second phalanx as it would otherwise be almost certain to necrose; it is well also under these circumstances to sponge over the surface of the wound with undiluted carbolic acid so as to destroy any organisms which may have gained access to it. In these cases it is well to introduce a fine drainage tube at one angle of the flap for two or three days after the operation ; in other cases no drainage is required. After-treattnent.—The usual antiseptic dressings are applied and an an- terior splint which extends into the palm should be put on ; the one made of block-tin and used for fracture of the fingers (see p. 102) is as good as any. When the wound is aseptic, the dressing need not be changed for about ten days; healing will then be complete and the stitches may be taken out. When the wound is septic, the after-treatment will be that already described for a septic wound (see Part I., p. 186). In these cases the splint must be carefully re-applied until the wound has soundly healed, as otherwise the flap is very likely to fall forward and to leave the head of the middle phalanx exposed. AMPUTATION THROUG.H THE SECOND PHALANX.-The operation just described is also applicable to amputations through the middle phalanx, the palmar flap being cut from without inwards and the bone being divided by a fine saw or a pair of cutting pliers. When the