GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. raised upon an inclined plane or on pillows. The latter generally suffice in amputation through the leg, and the limb may be fastened to the pillows by means of bandages. In the thigh it is well to use an inclined plane of wood, and to fasten the splint to this by strips of bandage. This inclined plane should be so planned that it can be weighted either by a heavy .sandbag or by leaden weights, so as to prevent it from being affected by the jerking movements of the limb. After-treatment.—^The dressings should be changed on the day follow- ing the operation, as there is always a considerable amount of blood poured ■out during the first twenty-four hours. The frequency with which the dressings will require changing subsequently will depend upon the amount of discharge. The drainage tube can generally be left out about the fourth day, except when there has been free bleeding from the wound and con- siderable accumulation of blood-clot between the flaps; in these cases it should be retained for two or three days longer. Occasionally, however, particularly in drunkards, the blood poured out between the flaps does not coagulate properly and a considerable quantity of tarry blood may be squeezed out for several days after the operation; in these cases the drainage tube should not be discontinued until this has entirely ceased. The continuous suture can generally be removed at any time after the first fortnight, but in the more important amputations at any rate, it is well to leave the interrupted sutures referred to above (see p. 238) in position for a week or so longer so as to guard against any separation of the flaps from accidental damage. Support to the stump.—When the wound has nearly healed, it is often necessary to employ some special method of bandaging the stump. In many cases no doubt this is not necessary, but it may be called for when the flaps have been cut a little too short and there is consequently consider- able tension upon them. The bandage is applied here with the object of pushing down the muscles over the end of the bone and preventing the retraction of the flap, and therefore the stump must be bandaged from above downwards. A special stump bandage is also called for when a large, heavy posterior flap has been turned forwards, which if unsupported would tend to drag the scar backwards over the end of the bone; a typical example of this is seen in Syme's amputation. Gauze atid collodion bandage.—Before applying this bandage, consider- able support may be given to the flaps by applying the gauze and collodion arrangement shown in Fig. 74. A piece of dry gauze, one or two layers fliick and about the width of the transverse diameter of the limb, is fastened by collodion to the skin for a considerable distance above the divided end of the bone. When the collodion is dry, an assistant, grasping the limb above, pushes the tissues well down over the bone, and the free end of the gauze is then pulled upon and folded down over the end of the stump and fastened to the posterior surface of the limb by more collodion, the soft parts being held in position until the collodion is quite dry. Bandaging tlu stump.—Outside this a bandage may be aj)[)lied to reinforce