115 FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. may require renewal from time to time and should be worn for three or four months; it may then be abandoned and a Thomas's splint substituted for another two or three months. Fairly firm union may be obtained by this method. Operative.—The question of operative interference in these cases has been a good deal discussed. The patient is usually too old and feeble to undergo what must necessarily be a fairly severe operation, and, in addition to this, the bone is generally so much atrophied that the chances of getting a good result are somewhat small. When, however, the fracture occurs in a patient who is comparatively young (45-55) and still vigorous, operation may be justifiable. In one case of this kind where the fracture was, as far as could be judged, essentially intra-capsular, we have operated with very considerable success ; the description of this operation may be taken as a model for those under similar conditions. Extension by weight and pulley wa^ made upon the limb under an anaesthetic until the two limbs were of the same length. The femur was then rotated firmly inwards and the parts manipulated until the fragments seemed in position. A vertical incision was then made over the outer surface of the great trochanter right down to the bone and a drill driven through the trochanter and along the neck of the bone until it penetrated well into the head of the femur. The distance the drill was made to penetrate was guided by measurements on the sound side. The drill was then withdrawn and a square ivory peg fitting the hole exactly was driven in, cut short, and the wound closed. A long Liston's splint was then put on and weight extension applied. After-treatment.—The wound healed by first intention, the splint was left off in six weeks and for the next month the patient was encouraged to move the hip as she lay in bed without being allowed to bear weight upon it. The result was a perfectly useful limb, the only fault to be found with it being a shortening of about half an inch. Probably the peg had allowed the trochanter to be drawn up, and if we had to do a similar operation again we should be inclined to put in two pegs at a little distance from each other. EXTRACAPSULAR FRACTURE. — By the term extracapsular fracture of the neck of the femur is understood one in which the line of fracture is, partly at any rate, outside the capsule. As a rule, the so-called extra-capsular fracture is intra-capsular in front and extra-capsular behind, owing to the fact that the capsule in front is attached to the lowest limit of the neck. Causes.—This injury is caused by more severe violence than that producing the intra-capsular fracture, and is generally due to a heavy fall on the great trochanter; impaction very frequently occurs, the neck of the femur being driven outwards into the trochanter, which it often splits uj) considerably. The injury may also occur from indirect violence, such as falls from a height upon the feet or knees, but in these cases the shaft of