THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 132 be introduced through an opening into the joint so as to ascertain that the two condyles are accurately in position. At the same time all blood- clot is washed out of the cavity of the joint and any small loose fragments present taken away. After the condyles have been united to each other the articular end of the bone is secured to the shaft by means of pegs running obliquely upwards from the base of the condyle into the shaft, one on either side. After-treatment.—In spite of early operation and the most accurate adaptation of the fractured surfaces, the prognosis as regards restoration of function in the knee joint is not very good; this is owing to the severe damage inflicted upon the structures in the neighbourhood of the joint and the adhesions that are likely to result from it. In the after-treatment of these cases (which is practically the same as that described for the other fractures in this region) special attention must therefore be paid to the efficient performance of massage and passive motion from an early stage in the case, while at the same time all movement about the fracture is avoided (see p. 130). SEPARATION OF THE LOWER EPIPHYSIS.—This is a com- paratively rare occurrence; the injury always necessarily involves a wound of the knee joint and is often associated with defective development of the bone afterwards. It generally occurs from forcible over-extension of the knee and consequently the epiphysis is carried forward in front of the lower end of the diaphysis, which is pressed backward, and may exert dangerous pressure upon the popliteal artery. The injury is often compound. Treatment.—Recent researches, particularly those of Hutchinson and Barnard,^ seem to show that this particular injury is best treated by full flexion of the knee without the use of any splint. Their description of the method is as follows :—" Under complete anaesthesia an assistant makes steady but strong traction upon the tibia in the line of the limb. This overcomes the upward pull of the quadriceps extensor and brings the epiphysis down to the line of separation. The operator then clasps his hands beneath the lower part of the thigh, and draws it steadily upwards, gradually flexing completely the knee and hip joint, whilst the assistant still keeps up the traction on the leg. It will be seen that this manoeuvre causes the epiphysis to move back upon the fractured surface of the diaphysis until it has reached its normal position, and further movement is prevented by the periosteum coming into tight contact with the anterior surface of the femur. "A bandage is then applied around the thigh and ankle, fixing the knee at about an angle of 60°. Complete flexion—i.e. heel on buttock—we have found to be unnecessary, and the wider angle is more comfortable. The limb is laid upon its outer side on a pillow, and an ice-bag can conveniently rest upon the front of the knee to limit the effusion." In about a fortnight's time the limb is moved, preferably under anfes- thesia, and then put up in a Croft's splint at an angle of 30°. Careful ^Lancet, May 13th, 1899.