FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 73 to encourage the surgeon to run the risk of getting a stiff joint. Therefore, the chief attention should be given to passive movement from a com- paratively early period. The retentive apparatus in these cases will be very much the same as that described for fracture of the surgical neck (see p. 67), except that it is hardly necessary to use an axillary pad ; if there be much tendency to inward displacement, a small one may, however, be called for. The elbow should not be supported, only a narrow wrist-sling being employed. The shoulder-cap should be used and the arm should not be fastened to the side. AVhen the head of the bone is loose in the glenoid cavity—a condition that a skiagram will make evident—and where it is therefore certain that no union will take place, the best treatment is no doubt to cut down and remove the head of the bone. A freely move- able joint may be thus obtained, and a much better result is insured than if the case were treated without operation. Of separation of the great tuberosity.—In this fracture the continuity of the head of the bone with the shaft is, of course, unimpaired. The fragment is seldom completely detached, and is often held fairly well in position by untorn bands of periosteum. The position most favourable for good union is to carry the arm out from the side nearly to a right angle, and to rotate it well outwards ; and this is the position frequently recommended. A wedge-shaped pad, the upper angle of which is a right angle, or a well-padded splint of a similar shape, is placed in the axilla with its apex upwards in order to keep the arm in this position ; a thick flat pad is placed over the great tuberosity, and the whole fixed in position by a bandage. This position is a most irksome one, and as there may also be difficulty in getting the fragment into position, the only really satisfactory method of treatment is to turn up a flap containing the deltoid —which is divided near its insertion into the bone—and by means of screws or pegs to fix the detached tuberosity in its place. This form of injury is however very rare, and the force which produces the fracture is generally so severe that other injuries in the vicinity are likely to be present and may therefore modify the treatment. Of separation of the upper epiphysis.—This injury resembles fracture of ■ the surgical neck so closely both in its appearance and its treatment that what has already been said with regard to the one may be taken as applying in all respects to the other. This particular injury of course possesses an added gravity in that there may be an arrest of development in the humerus as a result of the damage to the epiphyseal line, and, as a considerable proportion of the growth in the bone takes place at the upper epiphysis, this arrest of development may lead to very considerable shortening. COMBINED FRACTURE AND DISLOCATION.—Before leaving these fractures about the upper end of the humerus, it will be well to refer to cases occasionally met with, in which dislocation of the shoulder is com- bined with fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus.