THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 96 Mal-union in fractures of both bones.-—When the bones have become fused together by callus so that pronation and supination are lost, it may be necessary to expose the seat of fracture and chisel away the uniting medium; this will free the bones and permit restoration of their movements. The best route to the bones is through an anterior oblique incision in a line.from the internal condyle of the humerus to the styloid process of the radius over the situation of the fracture; this will enable the surgeon to pull the pronator upwards and the flexor muscles of the wrist and hand downwards and inwards. The incision must be free, and the muscles on the front of the fore-arm should be fully relaxed by flexing the elbow, the wrist, and the finger joints. When the superficial muscles have been pulled out of the way, the callus will be easily defined, and may be carefully cleared by a rugine from the middle line outwards, and thus the seat of fracture is exposed. The redundant callus is then chiselled away, and it may be possible to do this without dividing the union between the fragments of the individual bones if the fracture has united in good position ; should there be angular deformity, however, the union must be cut through and the position rectified. This may perhaps be done through the original incision, but it may be necessary to make one or more additional incisions directly over the lateral aspect of the fractures, in order to get proper access to it. After the wound has healed, passive motion should be commenced at once; as the fracture will have already united previous to operation, there is no necessity for keeping the limb in splints. In badly united fractures with marked deformity and loss of usefulness of the hand it may also be necessary to expose the fracture and divide the union with a chisel. Two incisions must be made, one over each side of the limb. As it is often very difficult to get union after the operation, it is well to divide the bones very obliquely so as to have large cut surfaces in apposition. These can then be secured together either by wires, applied as in Fig. i8, or by means of a couple of fine screws (see p. 51). When the patient is young and the bones are small, wires are probably better, because screws are apt to split the ends of the bone, whereas a wire inserted as already described (see p. 52) will hold them very satisfactorily. Ununited fracture.—To secure union in ununited fractures of the fore- arm an operation is necessary, and the best access to the bones may be got through longitudinal incisions over the outer and the inner borders of the fore-arm. ^\^hen the bone has been ununited for some time, a quarter or half an inch of the dwindled ends must be removed. When one bone only has been broken, the removal of this amount will cause a gap between the ends because of the unyielding sound bone; it will therefore be necessary to divide the latter at a corresponding spot, and to remove enough of it to enable the fragments of the fractured bone to come into position. The treatment of the divided bone will be the same as that just described for mal-united fractures.