REMOVAL OF THE ENTIRE UPPER EXTREMITY. 267 scapular artery has not been secured in the early steps of the operation, and this region is the one to which attention should be first directed after the extremity has been removed. The best plan is to pack a large number of sponges over the whole raw area immediately the extremity is severed, and to have pressure exerted upon them by an assistant; one sponge after another is then removed and the vessels picked up. Usually the amount of bleeding is not at all excessive. Before the wound is stitched up, careful search should be made for any diseased glands that may have been left behind, and these should be carefully removed. A large drainage tube is inserted at the lower angle of the wound, the usual antiseptic dressings are applied, and fixed in position by a broad sheet of muslin passing around the trunk. This should have an aperture on the opposite side through which the sound arm is passed; it is then firmly pinned around the thorax. The wound heals rapidly ; the drainage tube may be left out about the fourth or fifth day and the stitches taken out about the tenth. REMOVAL OF THE SCAPULA. It may sometimes be possible to remove the scapula alone and to leave the extremity intact; in this way a very useful arm may be left. In some cases, although very rarely, partial removal of the scapula may practised, but, as the operation is usually done for malignant tumours of the bone, it is as a rule not advisable to attempt to leave behind any portion, except possibly some part of the acromion process. This structure is of importance, as its retention materially increases the usefulness of the limb. The removal of the scapula alone is considerably more difficult than removal of the entire upper extremity, the points of greatest difficulty being the severing of the muscles attached to the coracoid process and the free haemorrhage which is apt to result from the sub-scapular artery ** or its dorsalis scapulas branch. In order to overcome these difficulties we have recommended ^ that the operation should be commenced by making a separate incision into the axilla designed to detach the muscles from the coracoid process and to ligature the sub-scapular artery; this should be done before the ordinaiy incisions for the removal of the bone are made. This procedure has the further advantage that when the growth projects forward into the axilla, as it did in the case which led us to employ it, the disease may involve the vessels or the nerves, or, if it does not actually involve them, it may so displace them forwards that there would be some risk of dividing them towards the end of the operation. Through the agency of the axillary incision however these important structures can be thoroughly separated from all connection with the scapula or the tumour, and can be kept out of the way by an assistant throughout the remainder of the operation. 'See Clitiical Society^ s Tranmctioiis, vol. .x.wiii., p. 2S4.