RICKETS. 211 in four or five-minim doses twice or three times a day; the syrup of the iodide of iron in half-drachm doses is also usefial. The child should be sent to the country, and if possible to the seaside, and, while there, sea-ivater baths or, if they cannot be obtained, baths con- taining sea-salt are very valuable. The baths should be tepid, and after them friction to the limbs and abdomen should be employed for fifteen or twenty minutes until the skin is in a good glow. The main surgical point to consider in rickets is the treatment of the deformities of the limbs which are so apt to occur. When the disease is progressing, the child should not be allowed to stand or run about, as otherwise deformity of the lower limbs and the pelvis will almost cer- tainly result. The child should be kept in bed or lying on a mattrass, and should be taken out whenever there is sunshine; in some places the treatment of rickets consists essentially in allowing the child to lie or play on a heap of sand exposed to the full glare of the sun with only a night-dress on. When the deformity of the limbs is only slight, the probability is that, if prevented from standing and walking, the child will outgrow it; friction of the affected limbs and manipulation of the deformity in such a way as to gradually unbend the curve are powerful adjuncts to success and must not be neglected. It is remarkable how quickly a curve will disappear in a young child when carefully treated in this way. When however the curve is marked before the patient comes under notice, the question of splints or of osteotomy has to be considered. These two methods each have their place. While the rickets is progressing and the bones are still soft, the application of apparatus is the proper treatment. Operation in progressive cases only leads to disappointment, as the de- formity almost certainly recurs when the child begins to walk about; 'in some cases operation may result in non-union. When, on the other hand, the rickets has passed off, and the dense deformed bone is left, apparatus cannot be expected to exercise any effect, and operation must be considered. The employment of apparatus for the different deformities of rickets has already been discussed in full (see Part II.). The method consists essentially in the application of splints along the concavity of the curve, pressure being brought to bear on the point of greatest curvature by means of an elastic bandage. Care must of course be taken not to use too great pressure upon the tender skin of a child, as otherwise sloughing may occur opposite either end of the splint, or at the point where the elastic band is applied. As a matter of fact no great pressure is required in these cases. Before operating for rickets, the surgeon should wait until the acute stage has passed off, and the deformity has ceased to be progressive; usually operation is not advisable until the child is five or six years of age. The whole question of operative treatment for the various deformities resulting from rickets has already been fully discussed (see Part II.).