282 AMPUTATIONS. the sole of the foot. The cicatrix is pulled well up out of the way behind by the contraction of the posterior muscles. Amputation at the "seat of election."—Here the bones are usually divided about a hand's-breadth below the tubercle of the tibia. Various operations have been described, the one that we prefer being by means of a " hooded flap " fashioned somewhat after the manner of Stephen Smith's flaps for amputation at the knee joint (see p. 284). The operation is performed as follows : The surgeon, standing upon the patient's right side, places the thumb of his left hand upon the crest of the tibia at the spot at which he desires to divide the bones, whilst the forefinger is placed in the centre of the calf about three inches higher up. Bending over the limb, he introduces the knife in the middle line of the calf just below the spot marked by his forefinger, and carries an incision almost vertically down- wards, or with a very slight divergence to the side of the limb opposite to that on which he stands, to about two inches below the spot at which the bone is to be divided. The incision is then carried almost transversely across the front of the Hmb to a correspond- ing spot on the other side, whence it ultimately passes upwards to join the vertical incision in the calf (see Fig. 95); to enable the surgeon to mark out the last part of the incision the limb must be raised almost to the vertical. It is well, as a practical point, to have the flap somewhat longer on the inner side of the limb than on the outer. In this way a somewhat racket-shaped or oblique flap is fashioned, the lower end of which is about two inches below the point of bone section. This flap is then raised, the muscle being taken up with it, and also, should it be healthy, the perios- teum, and the bones are sawn at the point previously determined, and the crest of the tibia bevelled off".- The result is that a hood of skin and muscle is formed which falls over the end of the bone, whilst the cicatrix lies vertically just behind the bone; as the contraction incidental to healing takes place, the scar becomes pulled up well behind the bone and out of harm's way. Amputation at this situation may also be done by means of lateral flaps; but these are not to be recommended, because the cicatrix falls over the ends of the bones. This method should only be employed when amputation is performed high up and when the old bucket stump is to Fig. 95. — Ami'utation of the Leg at the "Seat of Election" BV the "Hooded Flap." The dotted line across the tibia shows the level at which the bones are divided. It will be seen that the incision shown above is notched in front, and does not run transversely across the limb as described in the text. The notching facilitates the raising of the flaps, and may be used when a bucket stump is to be worn.