TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF BONE. 201 be done. 'For example, when there is an abscess in connection with a tuberculous deposit in one condyle of the femur, a curved incision should be made over it, the flap thrown back, and the abscess wall dissected out as far as possible. After removing this, the hole in the condyle is searched for, the bone chipped away all round it, and the deposit re- moved in the manner already described (see p. 199). When the abscess is very large, or when from its connections it cannot be dissected out, it should be laid very freely open, as much of the abscess wall as possible removed with scissors and forceps, and any por- tions left behind thoroughly scraped. The diseased bone is then exposed and removed. In the case of the rib it is of course clipped off very readily by forceps beyond the carious part; in the case of bones like the end of the femur, it is chiselled away. After this, if good access has been obtained to the abscess wall, and the diseased bone removed, the wound can generally be stitched up, and healing by first intention secured without any further trouble. When the complete removal of the tuberculous tissue is doubtful, it is well to leave the wound open, sponge it out with undiluted carbolic acid, and stuff it with cyanide gauze sprinkled with iodoform. In strumous dactylitis, which may be taken as representing tuberculous osteo-myelitis in the shafts of bones, similar treatment should be employed. It is often tempting to amputate the finger or the toe, but this is not usually necessary. If the abscess wall be thoroughly removed, and the medulla well scraped out, the wound will usually heal without trouble. In abscesses connected with deep-seated bones, such as the spine or pelvis, the operation must be conducted on the lines already laid down for chronic abscess (see Part I., p. 249). The abscess is opened, the wall thoroughly scraped out, the cavity washed out so as to get rid of all the flakes and cheesy material, and then the 10 per cent, emulsion of iodoform and glycerine is injected and the wound closed. In some cases the whole deposit may be scraped out and a satisfactory result obtained, but as a rule this is only likely in cases of tuberculous periostitis; when there is a tuberculous sequestrum or a soft deposit in the bone, the abscess is very apt to re-form and the final result is doubtful. (3) Of cases in which there are septic sinuses.—Here the treatment should be operative, because there is but little tendency to heal- ing, and suppuration may go on for a very long time. Excision of sinuses.—The sinuses should be excised, the area of bone from which they originated should be freely exposed and the focus of disease in it removed, if possible. Every attempt should be made to render the wound aseptic. The skin should be thoroughly disinfected, and the granulations at the orifice of the sinuses should be scraped away. A small piece of sponge saturated with undiluted carbolic acid should then be introduced into the sinus, care being taken, by placing sponges around the orifice, that the acid does not run over the skin, as