AMPUTATIONS. 232 of the racket, instead of starting abruptly from the lower end of the vertical incision or handle, begins to diverge almost from the very com- mencement of the latter, so that practically there is no vertical incision at all, the flap being a single long oblique one (see Fig. T2,b). Anterior oblique flaps made in this way in the lower extremity fall over the end of the bone and produce a more or less vertical cicatrix situated well behind the bone. This form of flap is often spoken of as the " hooded flap" and is one of which we are particularly fond in amputations of the lower extremity. Besides these general types, there are a large number of specially devised amputations for use in particular situations. For example, there is a most admirable amputation known as Syme's, for use at the ankle, in which the skin of the heel is utilized to form the flap covering the ends of the tibia and fibula. IRREGULAR AMPUTATIONS.—While, however, it is well to be intimately acquainted with all the typical methods of amputation suitable for different situations, it is of extreme practical importance for the surgeon to remember that he can modify any of these to meet the varying circum- stances of any individual case, and that he may use lateral, oblique or irregular flaps according to the nature of the case with which he is dealing, so long as he is thereby enabled to provide a satisfactory stump without sacrificing more of the limb than is absolutely necessary. While no doubt the set operations may be of use in cases of disease, the patient's interests are nearly always better served, in the majority of cases in which the surgeon is nowadays called upon to amputate, by some irregular form of amputation than by one on old-fashioned lines. METHOD OF PERFORMING A TYPICAL AMPUTATION. We shall now describe a typical form of amputation, for example one by the flap method, • and its after-treatment, so as to call attention to various details. Preliminary steps.—Certain preliminaries require to be attended to before the actual performance of the amputation. These consist on the one hand in thorough disinfection of the skin and avoidance of all risk of infec- tion of the stump, and on the other in taking measures to minimize the loss of blood during the operation. Disinfection.—We have already dealt with this point very fully in Part I., p. 161. The skin for a considerable distance around the proposed area of operation should be first shaved, then rubbed over with turpentine to remove all grease, and thoroughly and systematically scrubbed with soap and strong mixture, some hours before the operation if possible; a gauze dressing is put on, and the disinfection is again repeated when the patient is under the anassthetic. When there are septic sinuses in the immediate vicinity of the amputation, these should be scraped out