179 ACUTE INFLAMMATION OF BONE. patient (for example, from an amputated limb), because of the possibility of transmitting disease thereby. (3) Of Acute Epiphysitis.—As has already been said, acute osteo- myelitis occurs especially near the epiphyseal ends of bones, and in young children it is often entirely limited to the region of the epiphyseal line, —when it goes by the name of acute epiphysitis. Under these circum- stances the epiphyseal cartilage is very apt to be completely destroyed, and after recovery takes place, no further growth of that end of the bone occurs. Hence very material shortening of the limb may result when the epiphysis affected is the one from which the main growth of the bone is derived. In the treatment of the acute stage of acute epiphysitis, we have nothing to add to what has already been said with regard to acute osteo-myelitis in general. Free incisions must be made down to the part as soon as possible, the periosteum divided, and the bone gouged away on the diaphyseal side of the epiphysis so as to open it up thoroughly. The further treatment, and the treatment of complications, is the same as that already described. Treatment of the resulting arrest of development.—The only point to which we need refer in connection with acute epiphysitis is the deficient growth of the bone afterwards; this condition is not only very serious from the general shortening of the limb it gives rise to, but is particularly troublesome when one of two parallel bones is affected. For example, if the tibia or the radius be the'seat of acute epiphysitis, and the epiphyseal cartilage be completely destroyed, the unaffected bone {i.e. the fibula or the ulna) continues to grow, and may cause great deformity of the foot or hand. We may take as an example a case in which the epiphysis of the lower end of the radius is destroyed; further increase in the length of the radius only occurs to a very slight extent, and the ulna continuing to grow, gradually pushes the hand over towards the radial side. When the disease occurs in early infancy complete uselessness of the hand may eventually result. Destruction of the healthy epiphyseal cartilage.—With the view of prevent- ing this, some surgeons have proposed to destroy the epiphyseal cartilage of the healthy bone. The great objection to this in the early stage of the disease is, however, that it is impossible at first to be quite sure that the cartilage of the bone affected is really destroyed; it sometimes happens that growth occurs in cases in which it has been supposed that complete destruction of the cartilage had taken place. Hence this suggestion is not really applicable during the early stage ; but when two or three years have elapsed, and it is evident that no growth is taking place, it is well worth considering. When, for example, the lower epiphysis of the tibia has been destroyed, it would be well to destroy the epiphysis of the lower end of the fibula two or three years after the epiphysitis, if deformity is occurring In the fore-arm, however, the lower epiphysis of the ulna has very little to do with the growth of the bone and this method can hardly be employed.