FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. the fractured edge than in a recent case. The approximation of the fragments will be facilitated by elevating the leg and thus relaxing the quadriceps; in very bad cases it is only by so doing that one can bring the fragments together even after division of the muscle. After-treatment.—^When the bleeding has been arrested and the wound stitched up, the limb must be placed in a well-padded Croft or Gooch's splint, and laid upon a high inclined plane for a few days; after two or three days the height of the latter is diminished, and in about ten days or a fortnight the limb can be allowed to lie flat on the bed. The dressing is taken off in a week, the stitches removed, a collodion dressing applied and the splint left off. It is impossible in these cases to begin passive movement as early as is done in recent fractures on account of the division of the muscle, which requires at least three weeks for proper union. In the meantime, however, the patient should, by gently moving the knee in bed, keep up a certain amount of movement; at the end of three weeks massage and passive motion may be begun. A fairly satisfactory result will generally be thus obtained; the patient cannot as a rule get movement beyond a right angle, even if he gets as much as that; but still, with a firm limb and such a considerable range of move- ment, he is in a very much better condition than he was before. Apparatus.—In cases of old-standing fracture of the patella where no operation is permitted, all that can be done is to fix on a suitable knee-cap, which keeps down the upper fragment, holds the knee stiff, and so gives the patient fairly firm support. COMMINUTED FRACTURE.—When fracture has resulted from direct violence, such as a blow upon the knee, the line of fracture is usually starred or comminuted, and there is not the same tendency to separation as in the ordinary transverse fracture due to muscular action. It is not uncommon to find the periosteum more or less intact, and the fragments are thus held together by it. Treatment.—If the Hmb be put at rest for some three or four weeks on a splint, and massage and careful passive motion employed for another three or four, bony union and good movement are the general result. If, however, the fragments be separated, or if they do not lie at the same level, it is well to cut down on them and bring them accurately together by silver wire, after removing any fibrous tissue which may have got in between the fragments. In such a case thin wire may be used; in fact it is absolutely necessary when the fragments are small, and its use is also especially called for when the fracture is a vertical one, as it then bears comparatively slight strain when approximating the fragments. Except when it has been possible to pass a stout wire from the upper fragment to the lower, a splint should be applied and kept on for about a fortnight; the patient should be kept in bed for another two or three weeks, the limb being massaged in bed and gentle passive motion being practised.