FRACTURES OF THE CARPAL BONES. lOI FRACTURES OF THE BONES dF THE HAND. FRACTURES OF THE CARPAL BONES. CAUSES.—Any of the bones of the hand may be fractured by direct violence. Fractures of the carpal bones generally result from severe crushes; the injury is then usually a comple.x one and is very often compound. TREATMENT.—This will be the ordinary treatment of a compound fracture and of a wound of a joint. Any dirt or foreign body must be carefully removed and the question of amputation will of course have to be decided. This will depend upon the amount of injury and on the risk of sepsis, etc. Cases of simple fracture of the carpal bones may very easily escape notice, but if the lesion be recognised, the wrist joint must be fixed on an anterior splint with the metacarpus thrown somewhat backwards, and cold applied to diminish the swelling. Adhesions, of course, will be very apt to form in these cases, and they must be treated on the ordinary lines. « FRACTURES OF THE METACARPAL BONES. CAUSES.—Generally these are the result of direct violence, but some- times they may be due to indirect violence, as in a fall upon the closed fist. DISPLACEMENT.—The first, second, or fifth metacarpal bones are most commonly broken; sometimes there is very little deformity, some- times there is some overlapping of the fragments. When the third or fourth metacarpal is fractured the displacement is very slight, because the adjacent bones act as splints and keep the fragments in position. TREATMENT.—If there be any tendency to over-riding, the fracture should be reduced by extension of the corresponding finger; it then usually suffices to place a large ball of wool or worsted in the hand and forcibly flex •the fingers over it, fixing them in this position with a stump bandage. A dorsal splint may also be put on to fix the wrist joint, but it is seldom necessary unless there be some deformity over which it is desired to apply a certain amount of pressure. There is a tendency for the extensor tendon to adhere to the bone in the region of the fracture, and, with a view of avoiding this, the fingers should be released at any rate once a day so as to allow the patient to extend the finger. At the end of a fortnight the apparatus may be discontinued unless the case be one of very oblique fracture of one of the outer metacarpals, when it should be kept on for a week or so longer. After the splint has been discontinued, the patient should carry the arm in a sling for another week or two and should be encouraged to move the fingers both actively and passively. Massage is also beneficial