49 FRACTURES : GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. immobilisation of the limb during repair. (2) Undue separation of the fragments, either from over-lapping or from retraction of the ends, as in fracture of the patella. (3) The presence of foreign material between the ends of the bones, such as a piece of muscle, fibrous tissue or tendon, or even, as in comminuted fractures, a piece of loose bone. (4) Imperfect blood supply to the lower fragment when the fracture is situated near the nutrient artery of the bone; perhaps the best example of this is when there are two fractures in a long bone, the upper of which involves the nutrient artery. The upper fracture will probably unite satisfactorily, the lower may not. Constitutional.—Among the constitutional causes of non-union may be mentioned: (i) Specific fevers occurring during the progress of the case; these are especially apt to lead to non-union, if they commence about the time of the injury. (2) Alcoholism, apart from the occurrence of delirium tremens and the resulting disturbance of the fracture, may of itself distinctly retard union after fracture; this is more likely to be the case when there are degenerative changes in the kidneys. (3) In rickets there is often abundant callus thrown out, but normal ossification does not take place and the seat of fracture remains yielding. Other causes, such as scurvy, gout, anasmia, general debility, old age, paralysis, etc., are described. Treatment.—In determining the question of treatment, it is first of all necessary to be absolutely certain that the case is one of non-union and not one in which union is merely delayed. As we have already pointed out, union may sometimes be a very slow process. Hence when there is no evident cause for the occurrence of non-union, such as a piece of muscle between the ends of the bone, separation of the fragments, etc., a fracture should not be considered an ununited one until at least twelve or eighteen months have elapsed, and during that time the limb should be put up in a suitable apparatus, such as a silicate or plaster of Paris casing renewed from time to time, until it is certain that union will not occur. The patient should not be confined to bed, but may be allowed to get about upon crutches or to be wheeled about in a bath-chair so long as his move- ments do not interfere with the absolute immobility of the fractured bones. Massage to the limb and to the body generally, with the administration of tonics, nourishing diet, stimulants, thyroid tabloids, etc., should be em- ployed. Massage is a very important element in the treatment. While it is being employed care should be taken not to disturb the fracture. When it is certain that the fracture will not unite, some treatment with a view to bringing about union must be adopted; this may be both local and general. General.—The general treatment consists in administering a light, easily digestible and nutritious diet, securing fresh air and good hygiene generally and adopting the appropriate medical measures for any constitutional defect such as gout, scurvy, syphilis, ana;mia, etc. Local.—The local treatment is essentially directed towards irritating the ends of the bones so as to lead to fresh exudation from them, and PT. III. D