FRACTURES OF THE FIBULA ALONE. fractures largely by the employment of careful massage finds its most useful application in cases of Pott's fracture, and should always be em- ployed. Owing to the readiness with which displacement recurs, the greatest care has to be taken to fix the fracture while the joint is moved; even after some time displacement may still occur from want of attention to this point, or from mere looseness of the splint due to shrinking of the limb or alteration of the padding. After-treatment.—The splint can usually be left off entirely in three weeks, but the patient should not be allowed to bear weight on the foot for some seven or eight weeks ; the weight of the body may easily produce a valgus condition while the union is still soft. So long as massage and passive movement are thoroughly practised, there is no fear of stiffness in the joints, and there is therefore no need to bear weight on the foot too early when this treatment is adopted. The patient may get about on crutches, with the knee flexed and the leg suspended by a bandage round the neck or supported in a knee rest. When however there is severe oedema on allowing the limb to hang down, as is likely to occur when it has had a prolonged rest in splints, it is better to keep the patient recumbent with the leg elevated, because swelling is apt to occur inside the splint and to interfere with the nutrition of the limb. When eversion is very marked and difficult to overcome and especially when there is much swelling, a Dupuytren's splint is the best in the first instance ; when there is considerable backward displacement, Syme's splint either alone or in conjunction with Dupuytren's is of service. Dupuytren's splint is a Liston's long splint in miniature, and extends from the internal tuberosity of the tibia to three or four inches beyond the sole of the foot. It has two holes side by side at the upper end and ends below in three prongs; its breadth is equal to the antero-posterior diameter of the leg. This splint is designed to pull the foot forcibly inwards; the inversion thus effected is provided for by separating the ankle from the splint by a large pad just above the base of the internal malleolus; opposite the malleolus itself there should be no padding, an interval of about a couple of inches intervening between the lower end of the splint and the inner side of the foot. It is usual to employ a large wedge-shaped pad, the length of the splint, with its base opposite the malleolus. The upper end of the splint is first fastened so as to prevent it from slipping upwards; the best way to do this is to fold a handkerchief until it forms a band about three inches in breadth, to place the centre of this band over the inner tuberosity of the tibia, pass the two ends of the handkerchief around the outside of the leg, bring them forward again and pass them through the holes in the upper end of the splint and tie them tightly (see Fig. 61, A). By taking a grasp of the upper end of the tibia in this way the splint cannot slip up, but care must be taken that its upper end is carefully padded so as not to press unduly against the bone.