AMPUTATION THROUGH THE ELBOW JOINT. 259 behind, and the arm placed upon a trough of Gooch's splint, laid upon a pillow and treated in the usual manner. Various other flaps may be employed to cover in the lower end of the humerus according to the circumstances of the case with which the surgeon has to deal. A large variety of operations have been described, such as amputa- tion by a long anterior and a short posterior flap, by an external skin flap, by the circular method, and so on. It is probable that in the majority of cases the operation that we have described may not be feasible owing to the lack of sufficient soft parts, and in these the modified circular method will probably have to be adopted. The obliquity of the condyles must be re- membered ; the flaps must extend further downwards on the inner than on the outer side. For a description of the modified circular method see p. 225. AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE ARM. Amputation in this situation may be required for extensive injuries to the fore-arm, for tumour, or for tuberculous or other disease of the elbow joint not suitable for excision. It is important to retain as much of the humerus as possible so as to give sufficient leverage for an artificial limb, and therefore the section of the bone must be made on as low a level as is consistent with the entire removal of the disease. Modified circular method.—This is practically the operation of choice for amputation in the upper arm, since in it there is the least sacrifice of bone. The exact position of the flaps, whether antero-posterior, lateral or irregular, is not a matter of great consequence; probably antero- posterior ones are on the whole the best. The old operations by transfixion and the formation of long flaps necessitated the removal of an undue length of bone, and have therefore nothing whatever to recommend them. For a description of the modified circular method see p. 225. In amputating through the upper arm the vessels requiring ligature are quite few. The brachial artery, its superior and inferior profunda branches, with possibly a few muscular twigs, are all that will give any trouble. When the amputation has to be done high up, it may be somewhat difficult to arrest the circulation through the limb preparatory to the operation. As a rule this is best done by placing a sufficiently firm pad in the axilla and applying over it a piece of stout indiarubber tubing in a figure-of-eight, around the axilla, crossing over the outer end of the clavicle, the two ends being finally tied beneath the other axilla. There may possibly be a tendency for the tubing thus applied to slip if it encroaches upon the field of operation, and the following is the best plan to avoid this. Two strips of sterilised bandage should be passed beneath the tubing opposite the front and back of the shoulder so as to form loops around it (see Fig. 84). After the tubing has been fastened in position, these two loops of bandage are entrusted to an assistant who pulls upon them and thus keeps them in position and prevents them from slipping down over the flaps when the bone