177 ACUTE INFLAMMATION OF BONE. dangerous when the patient is in this serious condition, but it is practi- cally the only way of thoroughly and satisfactorily removing the septic clots. When the process is apparently more in the nature of a septiccemia, amputation is not to be recommended because the infection is probably then no longer local, and the amputation would so weaken the patient as to prevent the body maintaining a successful struggle against the organisms. All that can be done is to see that the local conditions are made as favourable as possible, and to conduct the rest of the treatment on the lines already laid down in speaking of Septicaemia (see Part I., p. 210). Amputation.—Apart from pyaemia, amputation may be the best treat- ment in other cases, such for example as acute osteo-myelitis in old people. We have known this condition to arise in old people after a simple fracture when an acute abscess was present in the limb, or even elsewhere in the body; should it occur we are bound to conclude that immediate amputation is the best practice when we consider the age of the patient, the diminution in his resisting power, the length of time that will elapse before the separation of the sequestrum, the consequently prolonged suppuration, the serious operation that may be required for the removal of the sequestrum, and the length of time required for healing, which indeed may never occur. Amputation is also often necessary in cases of long-standing necrosis in old people, but this is a point that will be specially referred to in the following chapter. Resection of the entire diaphysis.—The periosteum of the entire diaphysis may be completely separated from the bone, when the whole shaft, detached at both epiphyseal lines, dies. This condition does not however necessarily require amputation, for very good results have been obtained by removing the dead diaphysis; for example, in the tibia, this can easily be done through a skin incision extending from one end of the bone to the other, and little more is required than to lift out the dead fragment. If at any part the periosteum be still adherent to the bone, it should not be peeled off, but a thin layer of the surface of the bone should be removed by a chisel and hammer, and left adhering to the periosteum ; this gives a better chance of securing the formation of new bone, although even when the periosteum is separated by the inflammation, the deeper osteogenetic layer is often separated along with it. Wherever the diaphysis is still adherent to the epiphysis, a piece of the adherent diaphysis should be left, in the hope that a portion of the epiphyseal cartilage may remain undestroyed. After the dead shaft has thus been removed, the greater part of the wound should be stitched up and drainage tubes inserted at various points. Sometimes there may be almost complete reproduction of the shaft, especially if the precaution just mentioned, as to chipping away a layer of the surface of the bone, be attended to. In some cases, however, this does not happen, either because the osteogenetic layer has been destroyed by the inflammation or has not been peeled off along with the periosteum, and then it becomes PT. III. M