200 • THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. In tuberculous disease of the small cancellous bones such as those of the tarsus, it is often best, even in the early stage, to excise the bone without making any attempt to merely remove the deposit. The removal of such a bone as one of the cuneiforms, for example, does not seriously affect the after condition of the patient, and if done in the early stage it gives a most satisfactory result both in the way of cutting short the disease—which otherwise would be apt to spread to and infect the tarsal joints—and in its functional result. This subject will, however, be considered in connection with diseases of joints, especially those of the tarsus. (2) Of cases in which there is an unopened abscess.—The ab- scess may originate either in connection with tuberculous periostitis or with deposits in the interior of a bone which have made their way to the surface. Wherever possible, the best treatment is to excise the abscess as if it were a cyst, and at the same time to remove the diseased periosteum along with the superficial layer of the bone, and clear out any deposit that may be present in it. Excision of a bone abscess.—Let us take, for example, tuberculous disease of a rib with abscess; in the ribs the great majority of cases com- mence in the periosteum, and are examples of tuberculous periostitis. When the abscess is large it is not always possible to be sure at first which rib is affected. A free incision is made over the abscess, the direction of the incision being planned according to the part affected; as a rule it should be in the course of the muscular fibres. The skin and sub- cutaneous tissues are then turned aside, and the muscular fibres are separated from the abscess wall. This, however, is not always possible, for in many cases the muscle is involved in, or at any rate adherent to, the abscess wall. In the latter case the muscular fibres are divided, and the abscess is carefully defined until it is ascertained which rib it is attached to, care being taken to avoid accidental puncture of its wall ; then the rib beyond the point of attachment of the abscess is exposed, the periosteum divided, and the rib cut across by cutting pliers on each side of the abscess. The intervening diseased portion of the rib can then be re- moved along with the abscess over it. As a rule, when the rib is lifted out, a cavity is found beneath it containing tuberculous material, for the pus usually surrounds the rib. This part of the wall cannot be dissected away, but should be very thoroughly scraped, care being taken not to puncture the pleura. The whole wound is then washed out, so as to get rid of any tuberculous material that may have lodged in it, and is stitched up and the usual antiseptic dressings applied. If the whole of the tuber- culous material has been removed, healing by first intention occurs, and the patient is well in ten days; whfereas if the abscess were merely opened, scraped out and glycerine and iodoform injected, the disease might go on for many months, and spread into inaccessible portions of the rib, or from one rib to another. When similar treatment can be adopted in other bones this should