221 TUMOURS OF BONE. Unfortunately, metastatic deposits occur very early, and most usually affect the lungs. Spindle-celled sarcoma is also common in connection with the perios- teum of bones, and in this case amputation through the joint or bone above is also necessary. Round-celled sarcoma also occurs in connection with bones. This growth is often found in the interior of the bone, its most common seat being perhaps the head of the humerus. It is very malignant, but curiously enough, the tumours which commence in the interior of the bone do not spread widely throughout it, so that if the lower end of a bone, such as the femur be affected, amputation below the trochanters may be done in preference to enucleation of the entire bone ; the medulla must be examined carefully to see that no disease has spread up it. If the growth be in its most common situation, at the head of the humerus, the amputation must be through the shoulder joint, taking care to remove all the ligaments and muscles around. V Myeloid sarcomata practically only occur in connection with bone. They are chiefly met with in the lower end of the femur, the lower end of the tibia, and the lower jaw. They are the least malignant of all the sarco- mata ; in fact it is an open question whether they give rise to secondary deposits, and therefore the treatment need not be so drastic as that of the other forms. A good many cases "are now on record where the disease has not recurred after the growth has been thoroughly scooped out of the bone, but in doing this it is necessary to be quite sure that all the soft tissue has been removed. Sometimes this is not feasible when the myeloid sarcoma has *been in existence for some time, because, after the growth is scooped out, no bone is left behind; in these cases it is well to amputate, but the operation need only be done through the bone at a short distance above the tumour. Of secondary tumours.—As a rule there is no object in operating upon the secondary malignant tumours of bones, such as epithehomata or carcinomata, for their occurrence implies such general infection of the body that it is not worth while subjecting the patient to the risk of operation ; as a rule, therefore, the treatment in these cases consists in applying proper apparatus with the view of steadying the part should fracture have occurred, and of relieving the pain.