AMPUTATIONS. 268 Preliminary incision.—The operation, as thus modified, is begun by making an incision similar in direction to that for ligature of the third part of the axillary artery (see Part II., p. 337) but of considerably greater length. It should be about six inches long, commencing below at the junction of the axillary artery with the brachial, and should run up in the line of the former vessel so that the axilla is fully opened throughout its whole extent. The anterior fold of the axilla is raised so as to expose the coracoid process, the muscles attached to which—namely, the pectoralis minor, the coraco- brachialis, and the short head of the biceps—;g,re then divided by a knife or scissors kept close to the bone. This fully exposes the axillary artery, and its sub-scapular branch is at once identified and ligatured. The large vessels and nerves are then raised by the hand passed beneath them Fig. 87.—Amputation of the Scapula. A. The most suitable incisions when the deltoid and latissimiis dorsi muscles are not involved in the growth. £. Incisions useful when these muscles are so involved. The vertical incision in these cases often has to be made an elliptical one. [The preliminary axillary incision recommended in the text is not shown.) and separated from any adhesion to the growth. Should the latter encroach at all upon them, a broad copper spatula may be passed between them and it'and left in position during the rest of the operation. Incision for flaps.—The patient is now turned over almost upon the face, and incisions are made for the removal of the scapula. When the growth does not involve the muscles over the back of the bone, a convenient incision is one beginning over the acromion process and carried downwards and backwards along the spine of the scapula to about a couple of inches beyond the vertebral border. From the centre of this incision a second is made running vertically downwards to the inferior angle (see Fig. 87, A). When however the tumour involves the muscles upon the back of the bone, this incision will have to be modified according to circumstances. In many cases a portion of the skin over the tumour will have to be included in