129 FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. Compound fractures.—In compound fractures of the shaft of the femur an attempt should ahvays be made to save the Hmb; the treatment will be the same as that already given for compound frac- tures elsewhere (see p. 31). The wound should be thoroughly opened up, the skin and soft parts disinfected, special attention being paid to the cleansing of the ends of the bones, and at the same time the oppor- tunity should be taken to fix the ends of the bones together by screws (see p. 51). In these cases also union is slower than in simple fractures, and consequently a longer period of immobilisation will be necessary. FRACTURES OF THE LOWER END OF THE FEMUR. Fractures in this situation closely resemble those occurring at the lower end of the humerus. The chief ones are supra-condyloid fracture, which occurs at a little distance above the condyles; fracture of either condyle separately; T-shaped fracture into the joint; and separation of the epiphysis. With the exception of the supra-condyloid form all these fractures necessarily involve the joint cavity. SUPRA-CONDYLOID FRACTURE.—This fracture is due either to direct or indirect violence; in the former case the line of fracture is usually more or less transverse, but after indirect violence, such as falls upon the knee, its direction is generally oblique. Displacement.—Fracture usually occurs from one and a half to two and a half inches above the epiphyseal line and the direction of the fracture is oblique from above downwards and forwards. The consequence is that the lower fragment is always behind the upper, and as the gastroc- nemius and the popliteus muscles are attached to the lower fragment, the latter is tilted back so that its fractured surface looks more or less back- wards into the popliteal space. In some cases this projection is so great that serious pressure on the contents of the popliteal space occurs; indeed the popliteal artery may be punctured by a sharp fragment, or may be entirely torn across. When the artery has been injured there may also be a diffuse aneurysm or so great an extravasation of blood into the ham as to lead to occlusion of the vessel from pressure. Apart> however, from rupture of the artery, the pressure upon it may be so severe as to lead to gangrene of the limb below, especially if, from want of proper reduction of the fracture, the pressure be at all long continued. The upper fragment lies in front of the lower and its lower end is usually directed towards the inner side of the knee, and it is not uncommon for its sharp lower end to perforate the synovial membrane of the knee joint, and tc lead to effusion of blood into the articular cavity. Treatment.—It is difficult to obtain a thoroughly satisfactory result after this injury; the backward rotation of the lower fragment renders it difficult to get the broken ends into proper position, while adhesions are PT. III. I