FRACTURES OF THE LOWER THIRD OF THE FORE-ARM. gg After-treatment.—At the end of the first week the splints should be taken off daily, and passive movement of the wrist, combined with prona- tion and supination, carried out, care being taken at the same time to avoid displacement of the fragments by grasping the lower end of the fore-arm with one hand and making pressure forwards over the lower fragment with the thumb, and backwards over the lower end of the upper fragment with the fingers ; the fracture is thus quite immobilised. At the same time the splints may be shortened a little, the anterior one being cut away so that it ends opposite to the radio-carpal joint. The posterior splint should be continued and the hand bandaged to it; this bandage may be removed twice a day to allow of active and passive movement of the wrist, while the anterior splint need not be disturbed as it does not inter- fere much with flexion. During this time the fore-arm should be carried in a sling. At the expiration of three weeks the splints should be left off, the patient en- couraged to practise active and passive movements of the fingers and wrist, and massage should be begun. The arm should be carried in a sling for another fortnight during the day, but at night the splint should be re-applied. Considerable oedema often remains for some time after these fractures, but the steady use of careful massage will very soon over- come it. Various special splints have been introduced for the treatment of this fracture, but nothing will be found better than that we have just recom- mended. Carr's splint (see Fig. 36) is one that is very popular; it consists of an anterior por- tion terminating in an obliquely placed bar which is grasped by the hand, and a narrow pos- terior one, which is applied along the dorsal surface of the radius, from its upper end to just beyond the wrist joint. The outer or radial border of the anterior .splint is thicker than the inner, and is hollowed out below for the reception of the lower fragment. The oblique bar at the lower end is grasped by the hand, which it brings into a position of adduc- tion. The old " pistol splint" has nothing whatever to recommend it. Mal-union.—^Non-union is practically never met with in this fracture, but there may be considerable mal-union, either because the fracture has never been reduced or because reduction has been imperfect; the hand is thereby much disabled. We have in two such instances succeeded in removing the deformity and restoring movement by operation. This is best done through a long incision over the lower end of the radius ; the line of union is then chiselled through with the same obliquity as the fracture usually has {i.e. obliquely from behind downwards and forwards). Fig. 36.—Carr's Splint for Colles's Fracture. The splint illustrated is for the left limb. The oblique bar at the end of the anterior splint A is grasped in the hand. The radial border of the splint is considerably thicker than the ulnar. There is a depression in the radial side of the splint just behind the oblique bar into which the lower fragment is pressed by the posterior splint B.