254 AMPUTATIONS. removal of the bone. The best incision for this purpose is a racket-shaped one, commencing just above the articulation of the bone with the trapezium and carried down on the dorsal surface to a point short of the head of the metacarpal, and then diverging laterally to the web (see Fig. 80, C). The parts are dissected off the bone on either side, the metacarpal bone removed and the large thenar pad' of muscles is left uninjured. This procedure is of course not always possible, because the disease or the injury may affect the structures higher up or may involve the thenar pad itself, but the principle should be borne in mind and applied wherever possible. In disarticulating the metacarpal bone from the trapezium, the articulation is best opened from behind, the thumb being bent downwards into the palm, and the ligaments rendered tense and divided by the point of the knife. The internal lateral ligament may next be divided, great care being taken to keep the knife close to the metacarpal bone. After that the external lateral ligament can be cut through, and then, by twisting the bone round, the anterior ligaments can be got at and divided without any trouble; the bleeding is comparatively slight. The radial artery does not require ligature and in fact should not be seen; only some of its digital branches near the end of the flap require ligature. AMPUTATION AT THE WRIST JOINT. This is an amputation which can be very rarely called for; it is generally limited to bad crushes of the hand, and to some cases of malignant disease. In tuberculous disease of the wrist joint amputation, when required, has to be performed through the bones of the fore-arm. Amputation through the wrist joint gives a very useful stump, because the fore-arm retains its power of pronation and supination, while the expanded lower ends of the bones of the fore-arm give a fair point of fixation for an artificial hand. The operation should therefore be done wherever it is practicable. General considerations.—The shape of the flaps depends upon the amount of skin obtainable. The best flap is obtained from the palm, but this is not always available; in many cases the best result is obtained by means of the modified circular method with equal dorsal and palmar flaps. In some cases the tissues in the palm may be entirely destroyed and a single dorsal flap may have to be employed. No portion of the bones of the fore-arm should ever be removed unless it is absolutely necessar)-; even the styloid processes of the radius and ulnar should be preserved. Above all things it is necessary not to interfere with the radio-ulnar articulation. Modified circular method.—In doing the modified circular operation comparatively short flaps will suffice, but these must extend a little lower upon the radial than upon the ulnar side so as to compensate for the lower position of the styloid process of the radius. The following are the steps of the amputation which will most usually be performed under