283 AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE LEG. be used. Under these circumstances there will be no pressure upon the ends of the bones, and the position of the cicatrix therefore is unobjection- able. In fashioning the lateral flaps it must be remembered that the one on the inner side must always be longer than the outer to allow for the greater width of the tibia. In other cases the operation may have to be performed by means of a long anterior and short posterior flap^ but when the surgeon has the choice we greatly prefer the hooded flap above described. Other methods.—It used to be the fashion to amputate the leg by a transfixion operation and to provide a long posterior and a short anterior flap, the former being the length of the diameter of the limb where the bones were divided, while the anterior flap was about one-third as long. The great objection to this plan is that the weight of the posterior flap drags upon the line of suture, and the union either gives way or the scar is pulled down till it comes to lie over the ends of the bones. The latter objection was no great disadvantage when amputation was performed at the " seat of election," because no pressure was borne upon the end of the stump; but at the present time it is quite unsuitable, and should not be performed except where, owing to destruction of the skin on the front of the limb, it is necessary to make a long posterior flap in order to save the movements of the knee joint. Even when performed under these circumstances, it is better to cut the posterior flap from without inwards rather than by transfixion, and to take up only a comparatively small amount of muscle in it. Another form of amputation was at one time a good deal employed and is always mentioned in detail in the text-books. This is the one introduced by Mr. Teale of Leeds, consisting of a long anterior rect- angular flap and a similar short posterior one; the anterior flap corresponds in length to half the circumference of the limb at the spot where the bone is to be divided, and contains all the soft parts down to the bone; the posterior flap is about one-third the length of the anterior. This operation does not present any advantage nowadays over those already mentioned, and it can only be performed where there is an abundance of soft parts available, as otherwise it necessitates an unduly high section of the bone. We shall therefore not describe it. AMPUTATION ABOUT THE KNEE-JOINT. This form of amputation is most frequently required for malignant disease of the tibia, for injuries in which the condition of the parts does not allow of an amputation through the leg, and for gangrene of the foot when the tibial arteries are blocked. Whenever it is possible to obtain sufficient soft parts to cover in the condyles of the femur, dis- articulation is always preferable to amputation through the lower end of the bone, because the broad smooth condylar surfaces are most admirably adapted for bearing pressure. Instrument makers rather object to amputa-