92 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. formation of adhesions. The diagnosis of a loose piece of bone in the elbow is materially facilitated by the use of skiagraphy. Treatment.—It is well to cut down upon the detached fragment and remove it as soon as possible. The best method of gaining access to the head of the radius is by an incision on the posterior and outer surface of the elbow joint close behind the outer condyle of the humerus. It should commence just above the external condyle and run downwards and a little backwards towards the posterior border of the ulna for about three inches. This incision should lie between the triceps and the radial extensors of the fore-arm above and over the interval between the extensor carpi ulnaris and the anconeus below. When these two latter muscles are separated, the capsule of the head of the radius with the orbicular ligament are exposed. The capsule is opened by a horizontal incision, the parts are held aside and the head of the radius is snipped off with a pair of cutting pliers. If a considerable portion of the articular surface of the radius be intact there is no need to take this away; the detached portion should merely be removed and the wound in the joint sutured. If however the portion remaining attached to the shaft be very small, it is best to clip it away and thus to excise the head of the radius. The slight shortening that occurs does not in any way interfere with the movement of the arm. The incision in the capsule is sutured with fine catgut, and the skin wound stitched up without a drainage tube. After-treatme7it.—The after-treatment will be the same as that already described for fracture of the olecranon (see p. 87); passive movements must be resorted to early and maintained persistently. When the epiphysis has been separated the arm should be put up in the position of full supination upon an anterior angular splint \ a posterior straight splint should be also applied along the back of the fore-arm and passive movement should be carried out after the first ten or fourteen days. FRACTURES OF THE MIDDLE OF THE FORE-ARM. Either bone of the fore-arm may be fractured separately, or fracture of both bones may occur at the same time. FRACTURE OF THE ULNA ALONE. DISPLACEMENT.—This is a comparatively rare injury and is generally due to direct violence. The displacement depends to a great extent on the direction of the force and the situation of the fracture, and may not be at all marked. The upper fragment is often tilted forwards by the brachialis anticus, while the lower one is pulled outwards towards the radius by the pronator quadratus. The subcutaneous position of the bone allows the displacement to be readily made out by manipulation. Fracture of the ulna may be complicated with dislocation of the head of the radius. When this happens the usual condition is a fracture of the