THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 44 also occur in fractured spine high up in the dorsal region, and it is here one of the most frequent causes of death. It is due partly to the want of expansion of the lung as the result of paralysis of the intercostal muscles, and partly also to some trophic influence upon the nutrition of the lung itself. Its onset is often very rapid and it quickly ends fatally. QEdema of the lung in old people confined to bed in consequence of a fracture is induced by the want of proper expansion of the bases of the lungs ; the oedema usually commences about the end of the first fortnight after the receipt of the injury. If not treated immediately, it is apt to spread rapidly and bring about a fatal result, the bronchial tubes becoming choked with mucus, and the patient dying practically of asphyxia. Treatment.—The great danger of this form of pneumonia after fracture of the lower extremity in old people should be borne in mind; it occurs most commonly after fractures of the neck of the femur, when it is necessary to subordinate attempts to obtain union of the fracture to treatment directed to avoiding this lung complication. Hence, even before any signs of congestion of the lungs occur, care should be taken to place the patient in such a position that the lungs may expand as..freely as possible. Splints, if employed, should be so arranged that the patient may be propped up in bed almost in the sitting position; in fractures of the neck of the femur usually all that can be done in the first instance is to employ light extension, as any really efiicient splint would prevent the patient being propped up. If the patient be simply raised on pillows he will sHp down in the bed, and in a short time become almost horizontal; hence, in addition to a proper bed-rest, a foot-rest should be fixed opposite the sound limb so as to prevent this. At the same time the chest should be enveloped in layers of cotton wool, and nourishing food and stimulants administered. If symptoms of pneumonia arise, it is well to surround the bed with a curtain or tent and to place a steam-kettle inside it, so that the patient shall breathe moist air. A tent can readily be improvised by means of screens roofed in by a sheet. Diffusible stimulants, such as ammonia combined with expectorants should be given, and brandy may be admin- istered in doses of half an ounce every three hours or oftener as necessity arises. The following prescription may be used with advantage. 5. Ammon. carbonatis, . . . - gr.v. Spirit, cetheris nitrosi, . - . . gss. Vini ipecac, TTlx. Tinct. scilloi, ------ TTtxv. Aq. Menth. pip., ad 5j' Misce. Ft. mist. Every four hours. If the lung trouble increases, a large jacket poultice of linseed meal renewed every three or four hours should be substituted for the cotton wool, and when there is much cyanosis, oxygen inhalations (see Part I , p. 196) should be employed. When, however, the affection reaches this advanced