I06 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. limb. Then, by means of the finger in the rectum, the fragments may be manipulated into proper position. The limb must be put up with extension applied in two directions; this should be partly in the long axis of the Umb and partly at right angles to the upper part of the thigh, so as to keep the head of the bone as far away from the bottom of the acetabulum as possible (see Fig. 38). Passive movement should be begun after the Fig. 38.—Extension applied for Fracture of the Acetauulum. In addition to the ordinary weight extension from the foot, there is a second extension at right angles to the long axis of the limb through the agency of a sling passed transversely around the upper part of the thigh. Counter-extension is made by a broad towel around the pelvis fastened to the side of the bed opposite to that on which the pulley is. The foot of 'the bed is raised on blocks. end of the first week, with the view of minimising the resulting stiffness of the hip joint; it is, however, very rare that an entirely useful joint is obtained after an injury of this kind. FRACTURES OF THE SACRUM. CAUSES-—On account of its great strength and its comparatively sheltered position the sacrum generally escapes injury, but fracture may occur from direct violence, such as kicks or blows, or a run-over accident when the patient is lying upon the face; as a rule the fracture takes place just above the sacro-coccygeal joint. COMPLICATIONS.—This fracture is generally compound, communi- cating either with the skin or the rectum. In the latter case the injury is very grave, as septic infection is almost certain, and may lead to pelvic cellulitis of a very severe type. Damage to the sacral nerves may also occur, and may lead to paralysis of the sphincter ani and incontinence of faeces. DISPLACEMENT.—The lower fragment, with the coccyx attached to it, is generally displaced forwards, and, even when there is no displacement immediately after the accident, the lower end tends to be tilted forward subsequently by the pull of the muscles attached to it. The fracture may unite in this bad position, and will then cause serious pressure upon the lower end of the rectum, interfering with the passage of its contents, and