GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 231 the limb should be grasped, whilst the lateral diameter is estimated when lateral flaps are to be cut. Having done this, the thumb should be kept stationary whilst the rest of the hand is rotated upon it, without altering the distance between the thumb and the forefinger, so as to bring the latter vertically below the former (see Fig. 71). The distance thus marked off will roughly indicate the length of the anterior flap, and a third of it that of the posterior. Sometimes of course it may be advisable to have an anterior flap only, in which case the span thus marked out will require lengthening by about a third in order to give the right measurement. THE RACKET METHOD.—Various other amputation methods are employed, the one most in favour being the so-called "racket incision." In amputations of the fingers at the metacarpo-phalangeal joints, for instance, this is a very useful method and is done as follows. A straight incision is commenced about an inch above the joint and is carried vertically down . Fig. 72.—Various Tyi'ks of Racket-Shahed Incisions. In the upper figure a are seen the primary types, the simple circular incision with the vertical handle. In the leg the incision is transverse to the long axis of the limb, in the thigh it is oblique. The lower figure i shows the evolution of the "hooded flap" (in the leg) and the "oblique lanceolate" incision of Kocher(in the thigh) by sloping the incision gradually from the greatest transverse diameter of the racket to the upper limit of the handle. over the knuckle; when this has almost reached the level of the web, it is carried around the base of the finger and back again to the point at which it diverged from the vertical incision. This racket-shaped incision is really a combination of an oval with a vertical incision, the advantage of the latter being that the bone can be cleared at a point considerably higher up than the base of the flap (see Fig. 72, a). Other modifications.—This method, or some modification of it, is applicable to a large number of cases. A very useful adaptation has been introduced for amputations in the lower extremity. In this the oval