220 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. the neighbourhood of the epiphyseal lines. The spongy exostoses may be multiple, and may interfere with the movements of the joints or muscles in their neighbourhood; whenever a patient has an exostosis which is causing him any inconvenience there should be no hesitation in removing it unless it be in some inaccessible region. The removal of an ordinary spongy exostosis is a comparatively easy matter because ossification generally commences very early at the point of junction of the exostosis with the bone, and growth only proceeds in connection with the layer of cartilage which covers its surface; hence an exostosis of large size may have a very narrow neck. An incision is made down to the tumour, the neck is cleared, and chiselled off or clipped through with bone forceps, after which the growth is shelled out of its capsule and the soft tissues. The operation must be per- formed strictly aseptically; before the antiseptic period even this slight damage to the bone was often followed by severe sepsis, and many patients died of pyaemia; at the present time, however, they are perfectly simple and safe. The treatment of ivory exostoses is not so easy; they usually occur on the bones of the skull, and seldom attain any great size; as a rule they do not cause any trouble beyond possibly a little deformity. They are sessile and very dense, and a widespread fissured fracture of the skull may be produced in chiselling them away; .therefore, unless special circumstances, such as pressure on nerves or important structures such as the eye, call for their removal, they are better left alone (see also Part I., p. 260). Of Chondroma.—The chondromata are commonly met with in bones; they occur most frequently in connection with the phalanges and meta- tarsal or metacarpal bones. They are usually multiple, and grow either from the outside or in the interior of the bone. They are usually benign, and as a rule it is sufificient to cut down on them, remove the projecting portion and then thoroughly chisel or gouge away any deposits of cartilage which may be present in the neighbourhood. If growing in the interior of the bone, the outer layers of the bone must be chiselled through, and then the soft chondromatous material scooped out. Sometimes, no doubt, recurrence takes, place after these operations, but they can be repealed without risk, if the operation be done aseptically. In some cases these enchondromata do not appear to be quite simple, and where there is any suspicion of malignancy, it is better to amputate if possible. Of Sarcoma.—The sarcomata of bone may be of various kinds. Perhaps the most common is the osteosarcoma., or periosteal- sarcojna, beginning in the periosteum and spreading along it. These tumours usually show im- perfect ossification, and the secondary tumours are similar; they are very malignant, and the chances of curing the patient are very small. Amputa- tion wide of the disease affords the only chance of success, and no attempt should be made to save any portion of the affected bone; the operation must be performed through or above the neighbouring joint.