THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 1/2 between fourteen and eighteen years of age; very rarely after twenty. It is more frequent in boys than in girls. The disease generally begins in the medulla of the parts of the bones which are growing most rapidly, especially in the neighbourhood of the epiphyseal line ; its commonest seats are the lower end of the femur, the upper end of the tibia and the humerus and the lower end of the radius. Of the short bones the os calcis is perhaps the one most frequently affected. The traumatic form may occur at any age, and its situation will of course be determined by that of the injury. Pathological Changes.—It is rare for the disease to begin beneath the periosteum, most of the cases of suppurative periostitis being secondary to osteo-myelitis. The affected area of the medulla becomes greatly congested, the effusion fills up the Haversian canals and the medullary spaces, and accumulates beneath the periosteum; the disease is therefore practically always a combination of acute periostitis and acute osteo- myelitis. Suppuration takes place rapidly, the medulla becomes infiltrated, the periosteum thickened and swollen, and pus forms in both situations, sometimes after a communication has been established between the two, but often before any hole has been formed in the dense bone. In young children the disease may remain localised to the neighbourhood of the epiphyseal cartilage, and is then termed acute epiphysitis; this condition may very quickly end in destruction of the epiphyseal cartilage, or at any rate in solution of continuity between it and the shaft. More commonly, however, some portion of the latter becomes involved. If no surgical treatment be adopted and the patient survives, necrosis of a portion of the bone almost always results; hence the term acute necrosis is often applied to this disease. The bone that dies is prin- cipally the dense shaft; the necrosis may involve the whole length of the diaphysis, or it may be limited to a small area in the vicinity of the epiphysis. It may also involve the entire circumference of the shaft, or only a part of the central or peripheral portion. The sequestrum generally consists mainly of the outer portion ; at some part the whole thickness of the shaft may be involved, but seldom the whole circumference. The abscess bursts externally, and numerous openings through the skin may form later on, leaving sinuses leading down to the sequestrum which persist as long as the dead bone remains. When the abscess bursts, the severity of the inflammation usually subsides rapidly, and separation of the dead bone commences. The length of time required for the separation of a sequestrum depends very much on the bone affected. When a large dense bone like the femur is attacked, the necrosed fragment may not be quite loose for several months—six or more—whereas if a smaller long bone, such as a phalanx, be the seat of the disease, separation may take place within six weeks. While the dead bone is being separated, the periosteum becomes thick- ened, and new bone is formed from its deeper surface, so that by the time