VIII PREFACE. Only those plans are described which our experience has led us to believe are the best, but with regard to these we have endeavoured to state exactly and in detail what we ourselves should do under given circumstances. In some cases no doubt several methods of treatment are of equal value, and while we have only discussed at length that which we have ourselves been led to adopt, we have referred shortly to the others. AVe have not mentioned all the exceptional conditions that may be met with, but we have endeavoured to include all the circumstances with which the surgeon is most commonly called upon to deal. The task has been one of some difificulty, the more so as we have had, to a certain extent, to break new ground. This must serve as our excuse for the many shortcomings in the work. PREFACE TO PART III. It was originally intended to include the Surgical Affections of the Joints in this Part; it has however been necessary, owing to considerations of space, to relegate them to the succeeding one (Part IV.). It will also be found that Fractures of the Skull, the Spine, the Jaw, the Hyoid Bone and the Ribs have not been included among those described in this volume. We felt that they would be better treated of later on when the more strictly regional part of the work is reached, as much repetition concerning the treatment of complications will thereby be saved. It may be objected that we have not even mentioned many well-recognised methods of treating various fractures. The subject is so extensive that we have had to confine ourselves strictly to the principle of the work, namely, only to recommend those methods that have proved best in our hands; a mere enumeration of methods would be of no value for our purpose. We have received much help from Dr. Lambert Lack in seeing the volume through the press. We are indebted to the courtesy of the Council of the New Sydenham Society for permission to copy Fig. 52 from Prof. Helferich's well-known work on Fractures and Dislocatiofis^ while Messrs. Down Bros, have again been good enough to allow us to draw freely upon their illustrations of surgical instruments. With the above exceptions the illustrations have been made by Mr. T. P. Collings, from photographs or original sketches; to him we offer our best thanks. London, April, igoo.