142 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. culty, and there is always a liability to stretching of the fibrous union after a time. The results are in no way equal to those in which the fragments of the patella are united by bone. Contra-iniicatiofis.—These are very few in number. Even when the patient is fairly advanced in years there is no reason whatever why the operation should not be done; an old patient suffers almost more than a young one from the loss of exercise which is likely to result from the treatment of these fractures by the expectant plan, while the operation is not accompanied by shock and there is no difficulty in obtaining firm union. Of course when patients are in ill-health with heart disease, advanced albuminuria, diabetes and so forth, the operation is naturally contra-indicated, but in an ordinary healthy person there is no real objection to the operation, even though he be 70 years of age or more. Palliative.—In the palliative treatment, the first point is to place the limb on a splint with the knee fully extended and to flex the thigh as far as possible, so as to relax the quadriceps extensor muscle. This is best done by using a back splint with a foot-piece at right angles well raised on an inclined plane. The next point is to bring the fragments as close together as possible, and the chief obstacle to this is the effusion into the joint. Free bleeding occurs into the joint as a result of the injury, and later on synovitis with effusion takes place; until this has been to some extent subdued,- the fragments cannot be satisfactorily approximated. Reduction of the effusion.—In the first place, therefore, after placing the limb upon a splint and elevating it, evaporating lotions, lead and opium lotion, or, if the swelling be great, an ice-bag, should be applied until the effusion has become absorbed. It will often be a week or ten days before any serious attempt can be made to bring the fragments" into apposition. If the effusion be considerable, matters may be hastened by aspirating the joitit; this must of course be done with all antiseptic precautions, the skin being purified, and the fluid drawn off with a fairly large aseptic aspirating needle introduced into the joint cavity. The result of aspiration is however seldom satisfactory. It is difficult to completely empty the joint, as a great part of the effusion consists of blood-clot which not only cannot be withdrawn but which is very apt to choke the needle, so that the actual fluid portion is only imperfectly drawn off. At the same time, however, the removal of a small amount of fluid will increase the rapidity of absorption very considerably by relieving the tension. In introducing the needle, care should be taken not to push it too far back into the joint, as otherwise it will be thrust into blood-clot, and will get blocked; it should be pushed downwards beneath the front part of the capsule where the fluid has collected. The small puncture is dressed with a piece of gauze fixed on with collodion; as soon as this has healed, and the swelling is subsiding, steps may be taken to bring the fragments together. Approximation of the fragments.—The first point is to fix the lower fragment so that it is not tilted or pushed aside. The knee is shaved,