145 FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. sions of the patella to the femur, or to adhesions within the capsule of the joint and rigidity of the articular tissues generally; in these cases surgeons are agreed that operation is advisable. But here, although operation is advisable, the results are not nearly so satisfactory as when it is under- taken immediately after the injury; the time and trouble required to obtain even a fairly satisfactory result are very great. Secondary suture of the patella.—An incision is made similar to that already described, except that the convexity of the flap should extend further up the thigh, so as to expose the lower part of the belly of the (luadriceps muscle and not merely the junction of its tendon with the patella. After the flap has been turned down until the ligamentum patellae is exposed, the fibrous tissue between the fragments is divided and removed, and the fractured surfaces are refreshed by means of a saw, a chisel, or bone forceps. Great care should be taken to see that the direction of the two raw surfaces corresponds; if one be oblique the other must be made oblique in the opposite direction. All the steps of the operation should be carried out under an irrigation with 1-6000 sublimate solution. The next point is to get rid of the adhesions already existing. When the patella is bound down to the femur, the adhesions may be divided with a knife. Any other adhesions in the supra-patellar pouch which pre- vent the upper fragment from coming down, should also be divided by means of a probe-pointed knife passed into the pouch; the knee should then be forcibly bent, so as to break down any remaining adhesions. Before bending the limb it is well to replace the.flap to some extent and to cover the wound with two or three large flat sponges, as otherwise a quantity of unfiltered air would be worked into the joint cavity. It is important to remember that the adhesions should not be broken down until the fibrous tissue connecting the two fragments has been removed. We have seen cases in which violent flexion was employed before the fibrous tissue had been taken away; the result was that the upper fragment of the patella was broken up, owing to the soft atrophied bone being so firmly attached to the femur that it was unable to withstand the pull of the firm fibrous union upon it. The limb is now fully extended, and the next step is to see whether the upper fragment can be pulled down into contact with the lower. It is necessary that the fragments should be closely approximated without any great tension, as otherwise the wire readily cuts its way through the bone, which in these old-standing cases is apt to be very soft. If the structures be too short to allow the upper fragment to come down pro- perly, it is better to divide the muscle at its junction with the tendon than to make a series of lateral incisions through the capsule on each side above the patella, as this would very materially interfere with the vascular supply to the upper fragment. If the tendon itself be divided it is apt to unite badly, because it is a non-vascular structure ; its division might also interfere with the blood-supply of the bone. If, however, the muscle PT. III. K