THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. no Displacement.—The shaft of the femur with the outer part of the neck is generally drawn upwards, partly as a result of the force and partly by muscular contraction, and consequently there is always more or less shortening of the limb. In true intra-capsular fracture this shortening is usually slight, and rarely exceeds three-quarters of an inch at first. Later on, ^nless means be taken to prevent it, the shortening may become much more pronounced, owing to the contraction of the muscles and the gradual stretching of the capsule of the hip joint, which at first is the principal agent in preventing the bone from being drawn upwards to any extent. The shaft of the femur with the lower extremity is rotated markedly outwards, so that the foot is everted and lies with its outer border almost horizontal; in unimpacted fractures this is mainly due to the weight of the limb, but it is also probably due in part to the fact that more extensive crushing of the bone takes place on the posterior aspect of the neck than on the anterior, because the same eversion occurs in impacted fractures and in them of course the weight of the limb cannot produce much effect as long as the impaction holds. Treatment.—Two important points must be borne in mind. The first is that the fracture, if it occurs in old people as it usually does, often fails to unite by bone, although this is not always the case if prolonged treatment be carried out. The second is that in old people a long period of recumbency after any injury may prove serious and indeed often fatal from the occurrence of hypostatic pneumonia. Tf the patient be comparatively young and strong, it may be worth while making an attempt to obtain either bony or at least firm fibrous union be- tween the fragments ; if, on the other hand, the patient be advanced in years, the chances of being able safely to keep him recumbent long enough are comparatively slight, and it is not worth while running the risk of the onset of pneumonia by persevering in attempts to obtain bony union. This question of union will also be further affected by whether or not the fracture be impacted ; if it is, the surgeon will be much more inclined to persevere in attempts to obtain bony union than if it is not. (a) In young' adults.—In unimpacted fractures.—When there is a fracture without impaction in a comparatively young and vigorous subject the best treatment is as follows. The patient must be placed flat upon the back in bed with fracture boards beneath the mattrass, and the latter should be so arranged that there is the least possible disturbance involved in the action of the bowels, etc. ; the divided mattrass (see p. 104) may be usefully employed for this purpose. ^Vhen, after prolonged confinement to bed, the skin shows a tendency to become the seat of bed-sore, a suit- able ring-pad or water-pillow should be placed beneath the pelvis, but this is best avoided in the earlier stages of the treatment, as the body is kept steadier without it. All the ordinary precautions against bed-sore must be rigorously observed (see Part I., p. 66). Extension.—Traction should be made upon the fractured limb until