199 TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF BONE. open the joint, because it is important to avoid infecting it with the tuberculous material. The incision should expose the bone where the thickening is most marked; if a tender spot can be detected it should always be cut down upon, because that will probably be the spot at which the deposit is nearest to the surface of the bone. A flap, consisting of skin and subcutaneous tissues, is turned aside and the bone exposed; if the periosteum be still intact and unaffected that may also be peeled off, and then the surface of the bone is removed with a gouge and hammer. If a caseous deposit be present, unduly soft bone is soon encountered; if, on the other hand, there be a sequestrum, it will be extremely dense. For a caseating deposit.—In the case of a soft deposit, all the tuber- culous material should be scooped out with a sharp spoon until a cavity with fairly firm walls is left, and then a thin layer of the denser bone which forms the wall of the cavity should be taken away by a stronger spoon or a gouge. For this purpose Barker's flushing gouges are very useful. Microscopical examination shows that the disease seldom extends any distance into the bone—not more than about an eighth of an inch beyond the actual soft deposit—so that only a thin layer need be removed. It is however very important to remove this as otherwise tuberculous disease may be left behind. For a sequestrum.—If a tuberculous sequestrum be met with, it must be taken away. The characteristics of a tuberculous sequestrum are that it consists of thickened bone and is thus heavier and harder than the normal bone, but at the same time it is not generally very firm, and usually crumbles under the fingers. A second point with regard to tuberculous sequestra is that they are very slow in separating, and months or years may elapse before a small sequestrum is completely loose. The sequestrum, therefore, cannot be lifted out as can those that follow acute osteo-myelitis, but must be torn out of its bed with forceps. The wall of the cavity from which the sequestrum has been removed is also tuberculous, and must be scooped and gouged away in the manner just described for the soft deposits. We need hardly remark that in these cases strict asepsis is essential, as otherwise very serious suppuration rnay occur, and further, if any tuberculous tissue be left behind, it is likely to grow more rapidly afterwards. If the whole of the tuberculous tissue has been got rid of, it will sufifice to stitch up the wound, leaving the cavity to fill with blood-clot which subsequently becomes organised, but if there be any doubt about the complete removal of the tuberculous deposit, it is better to apply undiluted carbolic acid to the part, sprinkle the wound with iodoform, and stuff it with cyanide gauze impregnated with iodoformf On the following day the external dressing is removed, but unless the stufflng be loose it need not be disturbed for three or four days. Subsequently the wound is stuffed with iodoform gauze until it has completely filled with granulations, and then the stuffing may be given up and gauze and salicylic wool applied until healing is complete.