SCURVY-RICKETS. 213 mentary canal, and the disease not infrequently comes on after a specific fever. It is far more common in the first two years of life than at any other period. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—The only morbid changes that con- cern us from the point of view of treatment are those occurring in the bones. Whereas in adults spongy, bleeding gums are the most frequent signs of scurvy, in infants the disease mainly manifests its presence by sub- periosteal heemorrhages in the long bones. At some point along the course of the bone a firm swelling develops, which gradually increases in extent, and may spread along the entire length of the shaft. This swelling consists of more or less fluid blood extravasated beneath the periosteum, and also,- to a lesser extent, among the deeper muscles. As a rule, fluctuation is diflicult to make out. The femur is the bone most frequently affected, and the bones of the lower extremities are usually attacked before those of the upper. Fractures, either spontaneous or following very slight manipulation, are very apt to occur in bones thus affected, and union does not take place until the disease is arrested. In cases of scurvy pure and simple, these fractures are commonest in the shafts of the long bones, vi'hile in the cases of scurvy associated with rickets, separation of one or both epiphyses of the bone affected is more likely to be met with. Spongy and bleeding gums are not very noticeable in these cases. If the child has no teeth, there is but little alteration in the gum. The older the child is, however, the more prominent this symptom becomes, while the lesions in the long bones are proportionately less severe. SYMPTOMS.—A child affected with scurvy becomes listless and anaemic, sallow in colour, and irritable if disturbed. There may be the characteristic bleeding and spongy gums or haemorrhages frorri the bowel or into the subcutaneous tissues. Later on there are extravasations of blood beneath the periosteum of various bones, chiefly those of the extremities, and with these there is inability to use the aff'ected limbs and intense pain when they are handled. If the case be left untreated, the hemorrhages increase, and the child dies from exhaustion or some intercurrent affection. TREATMENT.—Prophylaxis.—No child who is brought up upon a suitable diet can develop this condition. There is no known case of the disease among infants brought up on breast-milk during the ordinary lactation period ; after that time it is said that the milk undergoes changes which rob it to a certain extent of its anti-scorbutic powers. Should the breast milk fail, its place must be taken by pure fresh cow's milk, and it is most important to remember that no artificial food or prepared milk—otherwise than by scalding, boiling, or Pasteurising—should be given during this period unless as a temporary measure because the child is unable to digest fresh milk. Even then it will be well to administer orange-, grape- or lemon-juice in teaspoonful doses twice a day.