215 SCURVY-RICKETS. If Ihe cow's milk does not seem to agree, consult a doctor, not the chemist. Never give babies, at any ag,-, sweets, pastry, fruit, cheese, salt meat, salt or fried fish, tea, wine, beer, or spirits. Behi'cen 9 and 12 months: beside one to one and a half pints of cow's milk, the child may be given—not oftener than once in the day—any plain milk-pudding, porridge made with milk, or bread and milk made as follows: put a slice of stale bread without crust to soak in a basin of cold water for two hours ; then pour off the water, beat up the bread, and pour over it a quarter of a pini of boiling milk. Sweeten with loaf sugar. This should be freshly made for each meal. Between 12 and 15 vtonths: add to the above, potato and gravy, or half an egg once daily. After 18 vtonths: finely minced or shredded mutton and fresh fish may be added, but cow's milk should still be the principal food. Feed only at meal times. Never between meals, "Just to keep them quiet." Babies often cry, not because they are hungry, but because they are thirsty. A little pure water or barley water flavoured with orange juice will satisfy them. The bottle should have a nipple, but no tube. Scald it out both before and after use and cleanse with a brush. Prepare only enough milk for one meal. Never give what is left over in the bottle for the next meal. Taste the milk before feeding, and be sure it is not sour or smoked. GENERAL DIRECTIONS. I. —Sleeping. The child should sleep in a cot or basket alone. Many babies are overlaid every year from sleeping with their parents. If they kick off the bedclothes, put them in long flannel night-gowns, fastened below the feet and at the wrists and throat. They must not lie between window and door, or fireplace and door. Keep the window open all night in hot weather. Keep a small fire burning all night in cold weather. II. —Clothing. Should be loose round the chest and close round the belly. Do not let them go about with nothing on below the armpits but petticoats. A flannel binder round the belly and warm drawers should always be worn. III. —Washing. Wash them all over with soap and warm water night and morning. Dirty children are always delicate. They will not take cold if carefully dried, especially about the head and ears, after the bath. It is a good plan to put them to bed between the blankets for half an hour after the morning bath. Fresh air and sunlight are nearly as important as food to children. Take them out every day in fine weather. Curative.—General.—When the disease is established, the effect of proper treatment is generally most marked. All artificial foods should at once be cut off and the child put upon a diet of fresh scalded cow's milk, properly diluted according to the age of the patient. With this many authorities recommend the administration of fresh meat juice. More important than either of these, however, is the addition of fresh fruit and vegetables to the dietary. The most useful fruits are oranges, lemons, and grapes; the vegetables may be dressed in the ordinary manner or given as soups. The drug treatment does not call for much notice. There is no specific drug for the disease, and all that is necessary is to treat on ordinary medical