THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 2l6 ines any complications that may arise. The child must be placed under the best possible hygienic conditions, and if rickets be present that must, of course, receive appropriate treatment (see p. 208). Local.—The treatment of the affected bones is of importance. Absolute rest in bed must be insisted upon, both on account of the liability to fracture, and because the child is very apt to suffer from severe attacks of syncope. For the first of these reasons also the greatest care must be taken in handling the child while performing the ordinary nursing function.s. The limb affected should be put at perfect rest upon a suitable splint, and any fracture that may occur must be put up in suitable apparatus. Sandbags will, however, often be found better for fixing the limb than splints, as the tenderness is extreme. A sheet or towel is placed over the limb and sandbags of suitable size rolled up in each end. As the disease subsides, splints may be applied, and union will occur satisfactorily. The subperiosteal extravasation usually becomes absorbed as the child improves under treatment; rest will facilitate this. Sometimes, especially when there is some pyrexia and much tenderness, it may be impossible to be sure whether or not there is suppuration going on beneath the periosteum. The question can easily be cleared up by the use of the trochar and cannula or a large aspirating needle. Should the extravasation be excessive, however, absorption will be very slow, and under these circumstances, provided that the child is otherwise improving, it may be advisable in exceptional cases, when absorption has almost come to a standstill, to cut down upon the swelling, incise the periosteum, and turn out all the clots. We have operated with great advantage in this manner. A sufficiently free longitudinal incision is made into the swelling and the clots removed partly by the finger, partly by gentle irrigation with 1-8000 sublimate solution, and partly by compres- sing the limb. When as much of the clot has been removed as possible, the wound is sewn up without a drainage tube, and the usual cyanide dressings are applied. It is well to put on a large mass of wool outside this, and to fasten it firmly on so as to exert some compression on the limb and prevent re-accumulation of blood. Slight oozing only takes place beneath the periosteum after the operation, and this is rapidly absorbed if the limb be kept at rest on a suitable splint. By treating these cases in this way the absorption of the effusion will be hastened, the adhesions between muscles, etc., lessened, and the course of the case shortened. The operation is of course only permissible under the strictest antiseptic precautions; septic infection would entail widespread necrosis at the very least, as the periosteum in these bad cases is separated from the bone throughout the entire diaphysis.