122 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. Hodgen's splint acts by producing extension upon the thigh in the semi-flexed position, the extending force being the weight of the limb. It is only necessary to raise the limb sufficiently for it to be well clear of the bed. If increased extension be required, it is not made by pulling the limb up higher but by adding weight to the metal frame and so increasing the weight of the limb. This splint gives very good results, and is much more comfortable than any other; the patient can to a certain extent move about in bed, as the splint follows any movement of the body, and he is able to raise himself into the semi-recumbent position without unduly disturbing the fracture. It is the splint most particularly adapted for fractures immediately below the lesser trochanter. It should be kept on for about six or eight weeks, when the patient should have a plaster of Paris spica applied and may be allowed to get about on crutches (see p. 114): at the end of three or four weeks longer he will probably be able to manage with two sticks. Of fracture near the centre of the shaft.—In adults,— In an adult with strong muscles as much as twelve, or fourteen pounds is some- times necessary to maintain extension, after reduction ; the following is a good arrangement. The limb is placed in the horizontal position upon the bed and a stirrup is applied, the strapping extending from above the knee to a little distance above the ankle (see p. 24); from the stirrup a cord passe^ over a pulley. Counter-extension is then provided for by a well-padded perineal band fastened to the head of the bed, the foot of which is raised on blocks, and a weight of seven or eight pounds is attached to the cord. In the course of two or three days this may be increased if necessary up to twelve or fourteen pounds; sometimes even more than this is required. The limb should be kept parallel with the middle line and eversion of the foot must be corrected, because in these cases the upper fragment is not markedly abducted or rotated outwards. Eversion is best prevented by the means recommended on page 117. The question of abduction or rotation outwards of the upper fragment is easily determined by noting the direction of the outer surface of the great trochanter; the position of the lower fragment must be arranged accordingly. Sometimes cases are met with in which there is marked tilting forwards of the upper fragment; this may be overcome by means of a shield of plaster of Paris applied over the front of the limb so as to press the fragment back into position. It is made on the principle of a Croft's splint, an anterior piece only, broad enough to cover the whole of the front of the limb, being used. This splint is plentifully smeared with plaster so as to increase its weight, and if necessary the pressure on the fragment may be increased by moulding sheet lead to the shape of the splint, over which it is applied (see Fig. 46). When combined with extension this is often very efficacious. If the patient be very restless, it may be necessary in addition to put on a long Liston's splint, so as to prevent undue move-