AMPUTATIONS. 238 flaps are brought into position and stitched up by a continuous silk suture. The easiest method of ensuring that the flaps shall be stitched up accurately is to introduce one or two interrupted sutures before employing the continuous one, as they serve to keep the flaps temporarily in position. One of these may be introduced through the centre of the flaps and one on either side. Drainage.—It is well in all cases to employ a drainage tube, which should be kept in for four or five days; otherwise the stump is apt to fill with blood, which is chiefly due to the oozing following the application of the tourniquet. This may cause delay in healing from the accumulation of serum within the flap or, when the skin is thin and somewhat wanting in vitality, even sloughing of the flaps may occur from the pressure exerted by the blood distending them. A drainage tube is all the more necessary because it must be remembered that it is impossible in amputation wounds to apply sufficient pressure to stop capillary oozing, because of the danger of sloughing of the flaps from the pressure thus applied. The drainage tube should be of good size—generally about No. i6—and should be intro- duced at one of the angles of the wound, the one chosen being the angle furthest away from any possible source of septic infection,—a point of great importance in amputation in the upper third of the thigh or through the hip joint. It is advisable of course that the point chosen should also be the most dependent one, but where this would bring the tube too near to some source of infection it must be abandoned in favour of the one furthest away from this; for after all the dependent position of the opening is a matter of comparatively slight consequence. Dressings.—The ordinary cyanide gauze dressings should be applied, and care must be taken to have a sufficiently large amount, because otherwise the dressing is apt to slip off owing to the movements of the patient. It is not uncommon for the stump to jerk about very freely after amputation, and this may loosen and detach the dressing to such an extent that if only a small quantity be put on the wound, the stump may be found next morning without any dressing at all. In order to obviate this jerking of the stump, a splint should always be applied. Splint.—The simplest form of splint for amputations of the lower extremity is a trough of (iooch's splinting, which is made to encircle rather more than half the circumference of the limb. The splint is covered first of all with a piece of mackintosh or jaconet upon which is laid a large mass of salicylic wool. The stump is then placed upon the splint, and suitable padding is applied so as to afford it equal support in all directions; the bandage which fixes the splint must be applied from the extremity upwards, and special care must be taken to see that the upper turns of the bandage do not exert any constriction upon the limb; if they do, the venous return will be interfered with and increased oozing will ensue. When the amputation is through the thigh, the bandages fixing both the dressings and the splint must always be carried up around the pelvis, as otherv.'ise they will slip off. After the splint has been applied, the limb should be