FRACTURES OF THE FIBULA ALONE. bring it down. The patient should be put under an anaesthetic and the leg fixed by an assistant with the knee bent almost at right angles, while the surgeon makes firm extension on the foot and at the same time presses together the malleoli and inverts the foot. The whole point in the treat- ment is that the fracture should be satisfactorily reduced as soon as its nature is recognised. As a rule displacement does not recur if the foot be kept firmly inverted so that the upward pressure tells not against the tibio-fibular articulation but against the articular surface of the lower end of the tibia. After the fracture has been reduced, the leg should be fixed at first in a Dupuytren's and later in a Croft's splint. It will, however, rarely be found necessary to employ continued extension to prevent the recurrence of displacement so long as care is taken to see that the foot is well inverted. The subsequent treatment by massage, passive movement, etc., is the same as after a Pott's fracture (see p. 157). FRACTURE OF BOTH BONES OF THE LEG. Causes.—These are among the commonest fractures in the body and, apart from the difficulties which not infrequently arise in their treatment, they are very important because a considerable number are compound; according to some authors, as many as one in three or four are compound fractures. They may occur from direct violence such as run-over injuries, kicks, and so forth, in which case the tibia is not infrequently comminuted, the line of fracture more or less transverse, and the fracture compound ; more often however they result from indirect violence, when the fracture takes place at the weakest part of the tibia—a short distance above the malleolus—whilst the fracture in the fibula generally occurs higher up, often quite near its upper end. The line of fracture is then generally oblique from below upwards and backwards in both bones. When these fractures are compound it is generally due to perforation of the skin by the sharp upper fragment of the tibia. A variety of other fractures of the tibia, such as spiral fractures, T-shaped fractures, longitudinal fractures and so forth, are described, but the oblique and the transverse comminuted fractures are the two common forms. Displacement.—In a fracture from direct violence there is not neces- sarily any displacement at first; when the leg is lifted, however, the weight of the foot of course carries the lower fragment backwards. In an oblique fracture from indirect violence the lower fragment is pulled upwards and somewhat backwards, so that the upper fragment of the tibia projects beneath the skin and is apt to perforate it either at the time of the accident or subsequently if the limb be not fixed in proper position. There is some tendency also for the lower fragment to rotate outwards from the weight of the foot; this is especially the case when the fracture is fairly high up the bone. Treatment.—Simple fracture.—In treating a simple fracture of the