243 GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. fresh amputation and fashioning new flaps than by simply opening up the wound and resecting a portion of the bone. If such a partial operation be done, the nerves are still left implicated in the cicatrix, and fresh adhesion between the latter and the bone is very apt to occur. Hence, in all cases, except possibly in those in which a re-amputation would involve the loss of a joint,— as for example when the first amputation has been performed in the upper third of the leg,—it is better to fashion fresh flaps which do not contain any cicatricial tissue. Where however an important joint, such as the knee-joint, may have to be sacrificed if fresh flaps are to be made, it may be worth while trying to see whether the removal of a portion of the bone after opening up the old cicatrix will suffice. If it does not, recourse can still be had to amputation above the joint. From conical stump. — The so-called conical stump may result from three causes. In the first place the flaps may be so badly planned at the time of the operation that they can only be made to meet with difficulty over the end of the bone, the result being that, as the muscles waste, the skin becomes more and more tightly stretched over the end of the bone, and the stump therefore becomes conical. Secondly, the condition may result from excessive wasting and contraction of the muscles after an amputation in which the flaps have been accurately fashioned at the time of the operation ; this generally occurs in very muscular subjects in whom healing by first intention has failed, the resulting suppuration and granulation leading to considerable wasting and contraction. Lastly, it not infrequently happens that in young subjects, in whom a perfectly successful amputation has been performed through bones in a condition of active growth, the stump gradually becomes more and more conical as time goes on; this condition appears to depend on want of proper relation between the development of the soft parts generally, and the growth of the bone; the latter structure growing out of all proportion to the former. Treatment.—It is generally sufficient to open the wound, and to remove as much bone as may be necessary to make a satisfactory stump. When the conical condition is produced by excessive growth of the bone it may be necessary to have recourse to this more than once, for the stump may again become conical as growth goes on. Hence in operating on a case of conical stump for the first time it is well to excise what might at first sight appear to be an unnecessary amount of bone, with a view of obviating the necessity for a second operation for the same condition. The amount of bone removed must of course vary with the age of the patient; when he is approaching the period at which growth is complete it will not be necessary to remove as much as when he is young, and when the hone may therefore be expected to grow considerably.