191 NECROSIS. first twenty-four hours ; when the oozing is slight, a drainage tube is un- necessary. The result of this in an aseptic wound is that healing occurs by first intention, and the blood-clot between the fragments of bone becomes gradu- ally penetrated with cells which find their way also into the decalcified bone, so that ultimately the place of the blood-clot and the bone is taken by young tissue which gradually organizes into fibrous tissue. This method of treatment is much the most rapid and satisfactory, but it is rarely effectual unless the wound be quite aseptic. In some cases organisation may occur even though a little suppuration takes place, but this is com- paratively rare; as a rule, if sepsis occurs the whole thing breaks down, the fragments of decalcified bone and blood-clot must be removed and the wound treated as if it were a septic cavity. After-treatment.—The further treatment consists in placing the limb on a splint which should be kept on for two or three weeks after the operation. At the end of that time however, the question of movement has to be taken into serious consideration, for not only are the movements of the neighbouring joints apt to be impeded by the occurrence of some synovitis, but the muscles are especially likely to become adherent to the edges of the cavity in the bone and to prove a permanent obstacle to the action of the joint below. The splint should therefore be left off at the end of about three weeks, and the patient allowed to move the limb a little in bed ; too much movement must not be permitted at first, as otherwise the organisation of the grafts will be interfered with. As much movement as the patient cares to do in bed will not usually do any harm, while it will prevent the muscles becoming firmly adherent. As time goes on, more movement can be carried out; passive motion should also be made by the surgeon daily, until, at the end of about eight weeks, the patient may be allowed to get about. Even then, the limb should not be allowed to hang down for any lengthened period. After the lapse of about three months massage may be begun if it be necessary to increase the power of the muscles; generally, however, massage will not be necessary and, if not absolutely required, it is better to avoid it, because the new material is still very tender and might break down from very slight violence. The treatment in cases where one is content with the blood-clot alone, or where sponge-grafts or pieces of catgut are placed in the cavity, is essentially the same. (b) In a septic wound.—When however the wound is septic, there is no possibility of obtaining any organisation of blood-clot or of any of the other grafts which have been referred to, and the surgeon is therefore face to face with a difficult problem. After operations in which only a small opening has been made into the bone through which the sequestrum has been broken up and removed this becomes a very serious problem indeed, because the opening soon contracts and becomes so small that the discharge cannot escape properly. When this condition is once established, the cavity