127 FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. provided for by a perineal band fastened to a hook in the wall or the head of the table. As the exten.sion is made, the tissues in the region of the fracture become very tense and should be divided one by one as they are put on the stretch, so long of course as they are merely periosteal, fibrous or muscular; it is important to see that no large vessel or nerve is divided. After steady extension has been thus applied for some time, sufl^cient elongation of the limb can be obtained to b.ing the fractured ends into proper apposition. Then the cords of the pulley are fastened so as to maintain extension, whilst any projecting portions of bone are removed by a chisel, and a well-fitting fresh bony surface is prepared on each fragment; it is a very good plan to so shape the ends of the bones that when fastened together they will more or less interlock and so resist the tendency of the muscles to displace them (see Fig. 50). The bones are then firmly fixed together by means of two plated screws of suitable size (see p. 51). The wound is sewn up without a drainage tube, cyanide dressings applied and the thigh surrounded by four short Gooch's splints. Outside these a long Liston's splint may be fixed temporarily so as to immobilise the limb while the patient is being moved back to bed. The pulley is then removed, the patient put back to bed, and the limb steadied between sandbags, while an exten- sion of three or four pounds is applied to counterbalance the traction of the muscles for the first ten days. Non-union.—In cases of ununited fracture of the femur, the procedure is essentially the same. The incision should be made if possible over the outer side of the thigh so as to expose the line of fracture; care is taken not to peel off the periosteum to a greater extent than is absolutely necessary, and the line of fracture is refreshed by chiselling. Extension is then made by pulleys as before, tight bands are divided, and the fractured ends secured by screws. After-treatment.—It must be remembered that union after operation in both these cases is slow, and that the normal period of six weeks is not by any means sufficient for the union of a fracture after operation. At least double that time will be required before consolidation can be expected to be complete, and in many cases it may be as much as six months or even longer before firm union occurs. Hence great care must be taken to keep the parts completely at rest for a sufficiently long period. This immobilisation should be carried out in the first place, as we have already said, by means of an apparatus similar to that in use for simple fractures. The extension required however is only slight, three Fig. 50.—Methods of cutting the Femur for Ununited Fracture. Two methods are illustrated, but others mny be employed. Either involves some slight shortening of the limb, but this is compensated for as there is much less tendency for the fragments to be separated afterwards by muscular action.