FRACTURES: GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. S aseptic compound fractures or in aseptic operations for ununited or badly united fractures, may be to some extent due to the want of this temporary supporting material. The treatment of fractures may best be considered under the headings of Simple, Compound, and Complicated fractures. TREATMENT OF SIMPLE FRACTURES. There are four important indications to attend to in the treatment of any case of fracture: 1. To bring the ends of the bone level with each other,—or Reduction. 2. To get the ends into accurate apposition,—or Coaptation. (These two manipulations are included under the popular term of " setting the fracture.") 3. To maintain the ends of the bones in apposition until union has satisfactorily taken place,—or Immobilisation. 4. To promote the nutrition of the part, and to prevent adhesions in neighbouring joints and muscles. REDUCTION AND COAPTATION.—These two processes may be considered together. Their object is to bring the ends of the fractured bone together, and to place them in accurate apposition, so that union may take place with the least possible deformity. Reduction and coaptation of a fracture are neces.sary whenever there is any displacement. Sometimes, as in fractures of the metacarpus or the jaw, this may be done by simple manipulation with the fingers, aided, if necessary, by the administration of an anaesthetic; but in the great majority of fractures affecting the long bones, mere manipulation will not suffice. The fractured ends generally overlap to a varying extent, and the muscles are contracted and offer considerable resistance to the necessary manipulations. Hence it is neces- sary to employ extension of the limb by traction, in order to bring the ends of the bone to the same level before the manipulations requisite for the proper coaptation of the broken ends can be practised. Extension and counter-extension.—For the proper reduction of a fracture in a long bone it is very desirable to have some assistance, and, if the patient be very muscular, two assistants, if available, will be more satisfactory. If only one be at hand, he should exert counter-extension, that is to say, he opposes the extending force; it is not necessary to have a skilled assistant for this purpose. Where no assistant at all is available, counter-extension may be obtained by fixing the body of the patient to the bed, whilst the surgeon makes the necessary extension and manipulations. The lower fragment should be firmly seized with one hand well below the seat of the fracture; the other is left free to grasp the region of the fracture, and to manipulate the bones into proper position when the lower fragment has been pulled down sufficiently. If two a.ssistants be present, one may be employed to make extension, whilst the other looks after the counter-