CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF BONE. 183 successfully removed, but where a sufficient exit for the escape of the discharge from the cavity has not been maintained. SYMPTOMS.—-The periostitis or osteo-myelitis gives rise to thickening of the bone, to tenderness over the inflamed part, and often to a great deal of pain. The characteristic in both cases is that the pain is worse when the limb becomes warm, especially at night when the patient is in' bed. Tenderness is usually more marked in chronic periostitis than in chronic osteo-myelitis; while in the latter, on the other hand, pain is more marked than tenderness, and the former is of a neuralgic character. In both diseases the symptoms may for a time subside, but the affection is liable to exacerbations ; this is more particularly the case in the chronic abscess of bone where the patient may be comparatively free from pain for months and may then suffer from another severe attack. TREATMENT.—The treatment of these conditions is either palliative or operative. As a patient will seldom submit to operation in the first instance, we shall mention the palliative treatment first. Palliative.—This consists firstly in rest; secondly, in elevation of the limb so as to improve the circulation; thirdly, in the employment of counter- irritation, either in the form of blisters or the actual cautery, especially in the form of Corrigan's cautery (see Part I., p. 19), and fourthly, in the adminis- tration of drugs, of which the chief are iodide of potassium and salicin or salicylate of soda. Apart from the cases of possible syphilitic origin, large doses of iodide of potassium in some instances relieve the pain very markedly ; doses commencing with ten grains three times a day, but rapidly going up to twenty or twenty-five grains should be given. The result of this palliative treatment is almost always merely tem- porary. It is but seldom that a cure results, even though the treatment be carried out for many months. As a rule, the condition improves for a time and then relapses, for reasons that are not quite clear. Even in cases on which iodide of potassium exerts considerable influence, the large doses must be continued for a long time, as the disease is very apt to recur as soon as the drug is left off. Operative.—In young subjects.—If, after a trial of these measures, it be found that the disease persists, it is advisable to have recourse to operative procedures. The operation consists in cutting down on the inflamed area, removing the periosteum, gouging away the thickened bone, and making an opening into its interior. It does not matter whether the disease be essentially periostitis or osteo-myelitis, the operative treatment is practically the same. The plan of simply making a free incision through the periosteum down to the bone, while it relieves the pain for a time, seldom cures the disease; usually after the wound has healed the pain recurs, and in most cases something much more radical is required. Removal of periosteum and gouging of bone.—In a typical case it is best to cut down upon the periosteum over the whole area of thickening, and to divide it throughout its whole length, from normal periosteum above