Il6 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. the femur is more likely to give way. The fracture occurs in younger people than does the former variety and it generally unites by bone; on account of the age of the patient there is less liability to lung compli- cations than there is in the intra-capsular fractures. Displacement.—There is generally shortening, even when the fracture is impacted; as much as from two and a half to three inches may be met with. The limb is strongly everted whether impaction be present or not. In impacted cases there is very marked broadening of the trochanter—a point of considerable importance in the diagnosis. Treatment.—With one or two points of difference the treatment closely resembles that for intra-capsular fracture. In the first place, the^^aim in all these cases is to obtain bony union, and therefore a much more Fig. 42.—Extension Apparatus for Fracture of the Neck of the Femur. The leg is fixed to a back splint which slides in the iron frame shown above. This ser\'es to prevent rotation while securing extension with very slight friction. prolonged treatment is advisable; this is usually well borne, since the patients are younger and more vigorous and do not run the same risk of either bed-sore or pneumonia as do the victims of intra-capsular fracture. In the second place, greater extension is required to bring the fractured ends into position, because there is nothing to oppose the upward pull of the muscles. The treatment will vary according as the fracture is or is not impacted. Of unimpacted fracture.—The limb should be shaved and exten- sion strapping applied from the middle of the thigh to about the middle of the leg (see p. 24); the bandage securing it should not extend as low as the malleoli, becau.se heavy weights have to be employed which may cause the strapping to slip and produce a sore about the ankle. After the strapping has been applied, the patient should be anaesthetised and, while an assistant makes counter-extension, the limb is dragged down into position by traction upon the foot and ankle; it is kept in position by