240 AMPUTATIONS. the action of the gauze. The bandage should be wetted, partly because it adheres better when wet, and partly because it shrinks as it dries and thus obtains a firmer hold upon the limb. An assistant should push the soft parts down over the end of the bone, and the bandage is commenced Fk;. 7.).—Gauze and Collodion Bandage for an Amputation Stumi'. When the collodion is dry, the soft parts are pushed well down, and the gauze is then folded down over the end of ihe stump, applied to the posterior surface of the thigh and secured with collodion to it, being held firm until the collodion is quiie dry. eight inches or more above the end of the stump, which it is made to encircle, and from this point, either by the figure of eight method or by revers- ing, it is made to compress the limb evenly from above downwards so as to push down and fix the skin and the muscles and thus to relieve the tension on the stump. When the free end of the stump is reached the bandage is finished off as a typical stump bandage, apphed as follows. The last circular turn is fixed by the thumb at the centre of the limb in front, and the bandage is then brought vertically downwards over the centre of the free end of the stump, and carried up to a corresponding point on the centre of the limb behind, where it is caught and fixed by the forefinger; from this point the bandage is aga^ brought over the free end of the stump, slightly to the opposite side of the middle line, up to the thumb, beneath which it is again caught, and then a series of similar turns are carried backwards and forwards to alternate sides of the middle line, each turn overlapping its predecessor by about two-thirds of its width until the whole of the end of the stump is covered (see Fig. 75). Finally these vertical turns are caught and fastened beneath a few turns of the bandage carried circularly around the limb, which is then fastened off, leaving the whole stump well covered in and firmly supported. In applying this stump bandage it is important to remember that the turns which pass over the end of the stump should always commence in the