THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 78 such that very sHght irregularity of the joint surfaces is sufficient to largely prevent movement. (4) Fractures of the condyles.—Fractures of either the external or the internal condyle of the humerus may also occur. The line of fracture starts above the condyle and runs obliquely downwards into the elbow joint, terminating between the condyles. Here also there is generally a considerable displacement of the broken fragment which it is very difficult to overcome satisfactorily ; serious interference with the movements of the joint is very likely to result. (5) Fracture of the internal epicondyle.—The internal epicondyle may be broken off as the result of direct violence, and the detached fragment is usually pulled forwards and downwards by the action of the muscles attached to it. The resulting disability is not very great because the di.s- placement is usually only slight, but if the separation be considerable there may be more or less marked loss of power. TREATMENT.—The important points in the treatment of these fractures about the elbow are to secure accurate adaptation of the broken surfaces, to maintain the fragments in position whilst consolidation is occur- ring and at the same time to prevent the occurrence of adhesions, which, if unchecked, might render it impossible to obtain a moveable joint. The difficulty is much increased by the small size of the fragments and the im- possibility of bringing proper pressure to bear on them to maintain them in position. (1) Of supra-condyloid fracture.—This fracture should always be reduced under full anaesthesia. Although reduction is fairly easily effected by flexing the elbow to a right angle and then making extension with one hand whilst the fragments are manipulated into position with the other, recurrence of the deformity is very apt to occur, owing to the obliquity of the fracture. Evidence obtained by means of skiagraphy is steadily accumulating to show that the fully flexed position is the only one that is likely to maintain the fragments in good position. After the fracture has been reduced, the elbow should be flexed as far as the swelling will permit, and, if necessary, a pad may be placed in the bend of the elbow over the lower end of the upper fragment, and another behind over the point of the olecranon ; these pads are secured by a figure-of-eight bandage. The point of the elbow will thus be pulled forward, and the lower end of the upper fragment pushed backwards. In order to main- tain the flexed position, a Croft's splint, consisting of an anterior and posterior portion reaching from the upper third of the arm to the lower third of the fore-arm, should be put on (see Fig. 8), and if necessary this may be strengthened opposite the elbow by pieces of block tin or strands of tow impregnated with plaster incorporated in the splint; this splint is better than one of guttapercha or poroplastic material. The elbow and fore-arm should be supported by a large sling and fastened to the side. It is very important to ascertain by means of a skiagram, after the