174 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. the shaft; not infrequently other small independent sequestra are found at a higher level, especially in the central part of the bone. Treatment,—In speaking of the treatment of acute suppurative inflam- mation of bone, we shall find it most convenient to consider it under the following heads, viz., the treatment of (i) acute suppurative periostitis, (2) acute suppurative osteo-myelitis, (3) acute epiphysitis, (4) those forms accom-. panied with suppuration in the neighbouring joints, (5) acute periostitis and osteo-myelitis following injury to bone, and (6) acute suppurative osteitis of the flat bones ; further, in all these forms, we have to consider the question of the removal of the dead portions or sequestra at a later period in the disease. (1) Of Acute Suppurative Periostitis.—It has been already .said that it is rare for the periosteum to be primarily affected with suppurative inflammation and that it is usually secondary to an acute osteo-myelitis. But cases of acute suppurative periostitis without any implication of the medulla undoubtedly do occur. The general symptoms are then usually somewhat less severe than in acute ostdo-myelitis, and the swelling of the part and the redness of the skin appear sooner. Incision.—As soon as the diagnosis is made, the affected part of the bone should be cut down upon, the periosteum divided, and the pus evacuated. When there is a considerable collection of pus beneath the periosteum three or four days after the commencement of symptoms, the case is probably one of primary periosteal inflammation, and the medulla need not be opened up at once. Were the healthy medulla opened, it might readily become infected and produce a still more serious condition; the whole of the bone from which the periosteum is separated should however be examined for a soft spot leading to the medulla and indicating a point of perforation from within. The incision should always be free enough to expose the whole of the affected area ; a small incision is quite useless. The incision must, of course, be planned in accordance with the anatomy of the part. After-treatment.—After the operation the wound may be lightly stuffed with gauze to keep the skin edges apart, but it must not be packed so tightly as to interfere with the escape of discharge; one or two large drainage tubes should be pushed down to the bottom of the wound among the packing unless the affected bone be quite superficial. If the operation be done with all antiseptic precautions it is remarkable how little bone may die—sometimes none at all. It is not improbable that if, in the first instance, only a thin scale of bone is deprived of its vitality, this will be gradually absorbed without separating as a sequestrum, whereas this would not be the case if fresh infection were allowed to enter from without. If, however, after twenty-four hours, the constitutional symptoms still continue as severe as they were before the operation, the presumption is that there is osteo-myelitis present as well, and therefore the stuffing should be removed, the edges of the wound held apart, and the medulla opened and treated in the manner to be immediately described (see p. 175); if, on the