FRACTURES OF THE FIBULA ALONE. I6l porated with the dressing; they should be so cut that the foot is at right angles to the leg. The advantage of these wire splints is that, although tjuite light, they are nevertheless very strong, and they can be removed one at a time when the limb is dressed, without disturbing the fracture which is held steady in the splint on the opposite side ; when the dressing on that side is applied, the splint is replaced, the one on the other side removed and the dressing applied to it. Owing to their structure also, these splints allow the discharges to soak into the dressings applied outside them, and thus they may be applied quite close to the skin with only sufficient dressing between them and it to form a padding; they can therefore be moulded most accurately to the limb and made to obtain an excellent hold upon it. When the fracture is put up, care should be taken to see that the foot is fully inverted ; when the wound has healed, the ordinary treatment—by a Croft's splint, massage, passive movement and so forth—may be reverted to. (c) Of mal-union.—Cases are sometimes met with in which reduction has been imperfect or has not been attempted. The result is more or less permanent disablement, so that the patient limps considerably, and often has agonising pain on attempting to walk; it may be necessary to have recourse to surgical intervention to render walking possible. Two pro- cedures suggest themselves for this purpose, one being to divide both bones of the leg and then to forcibly invert the foot, whilst the other consists in reproducing the original injury and then bringing the parts into proper position. Cases have been recorded where the former method of treatment has been employed and the foot brought into position, but the results are not as a rule satisfactory. The astragalus is not in its normal position with regard to the articular surfaces of the tibia and fibula, the ankle remains as stiff as ever and the pain on walking continues. We ourselves have operated by the second method in two cases in whicli the fracture had not been reduced, and in both the results were fairly good. A vertical incision, extending from well above the seat of fracture to below the external malleolus, was made over the front of the fibula, and the seat of fracture was divided somewhat obliquely downwards and inwards. A longitudinal incision was next made over the inner border of the tibia, extending nearly into the sole of the foot, and deepened until the lower end of the tibia, the inner side X)f the joint and the tissues in the neighbourhood were completely exposed. When the joint was opened it was found in both the cases that the internal malleolus had been broken off and had become adherent to the articular surface of the tibia, so that there was no possibility of bringing the astragalus inwards to its proper position on account of this mass of bone and callus. The remains of the internal malleolus were therefore removed completely, and the proper curve of the articular surface was reproduced with a chisel and_ gouge. The articular cartilage still remained intact over the lower end of the tibia PT. Ill, I,