FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. sufficiently to enable it to be washed out, at first with 1-20 carbolic lotion, and afterwards with a weak sublimate solution—1-8000—so as to remove the stronger lotion and avoid subsequent irritation. A drainage tube should be inserted for the first two or three days. The limb is then put up in a Maclntyre's splint and the after-treatment already described carried out (see p. 130) . if no septic infection occurs. Should sepsis occur, the question of amputation must be carefully weighed, and if the condition of affairs be serious, there should be no delay in resorting to it, because there will be here not only septic osteo-myelitis but acute suppurative arthritis also. FRACTURE OF EITHER CONDYLE.—Either condyle may be detached by a fracture which passes obliquely downwards and inwards or outwards according to the condyle affected. Treatment.—The greatest care must be taken to see that the fragments are got into proper position ; in the great majority of cases this is best done by immediate operation. If this be not feasible, reduction should be attempted by manipulation under an anaesthetic and the limb should be fixed on a suitable splint. If there be any backward tilting of the detached condyle, a Maclntyre's splint is best, but if not, the limb may be placed in the extended position in a Croft's splint. A skiagram should be taken in two or three days' time so as to see whether the joint surfaces are in proper alignment; if they are not, it is absolutely necessary that the fracture should be cut down upon and the ends fixed. The incision should be made at the side of the joint, the synovial cavity if possible avoided, and after the fragment has been got into accurate position it is fixed by one or more pegs of sufficient length driven through the condyle ; in this case screws may not be long enough. If there be much synovial effusion, it is well to make an incision into the joint, wash out the clots with a 1-8000 sublimate solution, and then to close the incision without a drainage tube. These operations should be performed within two or three days of the injury, as otherwise it will be found extremely difficult to get the fragments into proper position. After-treatment.—The after-treatment is much the same as that which we have already described more than once. The limb should be put in a Croft's splint; massage and passive movement are begun after about ten days and the splint is kept on for at least four or five weeks. T-SHAPED FRACTURE OF THE LOWER END OF THE FEMUR.—^This form of fracture requires very little description, being essentially a severer form of the preceding injury and corresponding in every respect to a T-shaped fracture of the lower end of the humerus. Treatment.—There is of course an increased risk of an imperfect result and it is scarcely possible to obtain satisfactory movement of the knee in these cases without operation. An incision should be made on each side of the joint, the condyles exposed, manipulated into position, and pegged to one another by means of ivory pegs of suitable length (see p. 52). Before drilling the condyles for this purpose, the finger should