284 AMPUTATIONS. tions through the joint because it brings the new knee-joint in the artificial limb to a somewhat lower level than on the opposite side, but as a compensation for this we have a stump upon which the full weight of the patient can be borne without any trouble. Stephen Smith's amputation.—In our opinion the best amputation at the knee-joint, whenever it can be performed, is that introduced by Stephen Smith, and often called the method by "hooded flaps." It is performed as follows : The patient lies upon his back with the sound leg flexed at the knee, and tied to the leg of the table so as to be out of the way of the surgeon, and with the limb on the affected side projecting well beyond the edge. The leg is fully extended and is held horizontal by an assistant, whilst the surgeon standing on the patient's right, first defines with the thumb and forefinger of his left hand the tubercle of the tibia in front, and a spot upon the middle of the popliteal space behind vvhich corresponds to the posterior surface of the knee-joint. The assistant then rotates the limb somewhat towards the surgeon, who bends over and enters the knife behind at the spot fixed in the popliteal space, and carries an incision obliquely downwards for about a couple of inches, and then gradually sweeps round the side of the limb furthest away from him, cutting a rounded flap with its convexity downwards and crossing the middle line at a spot from one to two inches below the tubercle of the tibia. The knife is then made to start from the same point in the popliteal space as before, and is carried vertically downwards and across the opposite side of the limb until it joins the first incision over the crest of the tibia (see Fig. 96, A). The whole incision may, if preferred, be made in one sweep by raising the limb to the vertical position after the crest of the tibia has been passed and cutting upwards to the starting-point in the centre of the calf; this is on the whole perhaps the simpler method. It is well, instead of bringing the incision across the limb absolutely trans- versely, to make it run somewhat obliquely, so that the flap on the inner side is rather longer than that upon the outer; this is advisable on account of the larger size of the internal condyle of the femur. It is also well in most cases to notch the flap in front by carrying the incision almost up to the tubercle of the tibia and down again to its original level on the opposite side (see Fig. 96, A). This is not essential, but it gives a neater stump, which is also easier to suture afterwards. The assistant now flexes the knee whilst the surgeon proceeds to raise the flap, which for the first inch should consist only of skin and subcutaneous tissues. After this, all the tissues down to the bone should be taken up. When the ligamentum patellte is exposed, it should be divided immediately above the tubercle of the tibia and the dissection is then carried upwards all around the bone until the upper margin of the tibia is reached. The knife is now introduced between this bone and the semilunar cartilages so as to leave the latter in contact with the condyles of the femur. At the same time the tendons and ligaments