74 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. Treatment.—The general rule of treatment up to the pre.sent time has been that if the head of the bone cannot readily be got into position by manipulation under an anaesthetic with the hand in the axilla, the fracture should be put up with the lower fragment in a line with the dis- placed head and upper fragment, and that when consolidation has occurred, a second attempt should be made to reduce the dislocation. But, as will be seen when we speak of dislocation of the shoulder joint, it is a matter of common experience that it is not only difficult but very dangerous to reduce a dislocation after the lapse of even a few weeks from the injury. Certainly, by the time that the fracture has united firmly enough to permit of sufficient force being applied to reduce the dislocation, reduction would be impossible, on account of the changes that have taken place in the capsule and the adhesions that have occurred between the head of the bone and the surrounding structures. Hence it is far better practice to cut down, replace the head of the bone at once and suture the rent in the capsule, and then to secure the fractured ends together. The steps of the operation for reduction of the dislocation will be described when we discuss dislocations (see Part IV.). FRACTURES OF THE SHAFT OF THE HUMERUS. CAUSES.—The shaft of the humerus is most commonly broken just below the insertion of the deltoid, but fracture may occur at any part; it may be due either to direct or indirect violence. The most common cause is a direct blow upon the arm, but the fracture may also result from falls on the hand or elbow. DISPLACEMENT.—The displacement varies according to the obliquity and situation of the fracture and the nature of the force producing it. If the bone be broken just above the insertion of the deltoid, the upper fragment is usually drawn inwards and forwards by the pectoral and other muscles, whilst the lower is pulled upwards and outwards, and the elbow is directed away from the side, so that there is a marked depression just above the insertion of the deltoid. ^Vhen the fracture takes place below the insertion of the deltoid the upper fragment is usually abducted and somewhat rotated outwards, whilst the lower fragment is drawn upwards to the inner side of the upper. COMPLICATIONS.—These fractures are usually unaccompanied by any complication, but sometimes the musculo-spiral nerve may be injured. This may occur at the time of the fracture from direct injury to the nerve as it lies in the musculo-spiral groove, but it more commonly becomes involved subsequently in the callus; the result of the pressure thus exerted upon the nerve is paralysis of the extensors of the hand. Fortunately, however, this is not of common occurrence. TREATMENT.—These fractures demand special care because there is a marked tendency to the occurrence of ununited fracture in this