AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER JOINT. 261 humerus rotated outwards, with a broad straight bistoury, I cut down upon the inner aspect of the head of the humerus, immediately external to the coracoid process, and carry the incision down through the clavi- cular fibres of the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles till I reach the humeral attachment of the latter muscle which I divide. I then with a gentle curve carry my incision across and fairly through the lower fibres of the deltoid towards but not through the posterior border of the axilla. Unless the textures be much torn, I next mark out the line of the lower part of the inner section by carrying an incision through the skin and fat only from the point where my straight incision terminated across the inside of the arm to meet the incision at the outer part. This insures accuracy in the line of union, but is not essential. If the fibres of the deltoid have been thoroughly di\dded in the line of incision the flap so marked out C Fig. 85.—Methods of Amputating at the Shoulder Joint. A. Spence's .-imputation. B. Amputation by a long deltoid flap. The incision for this flap is carried up to a corresponding point on (he back of the shoulder. C. Furneaux Jordan's method applied to the shoulder. The transverse incision is a circular amputation with the edges iust rounded ofl' where the vertical incision meets it. The dotted line denotes the point of section of the bone. The upper end of the latter is subsequently enucleated. along with the posterior circumflex trunk which enters its deep surface can be easily separated from the bone and joint, and drawn upwards and backwards so as to expose the head and the tuberosities by the point of the finger without further use of the knife. The tendinous insertions of the capsular muscles, the long head of the biceps and the capsule are next divided by cutting directly on the tuberosities and head of the bone, and. the broad sub-scapular tendon especially being very freely ex- posed by the incision, can be much more readily and completely divided than in the double-flap method. By keeping the edge of the posterior flap out of the way by a broad copper spatula or the fingers of an assistant,