THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. lOO and the fragment is completely detached and forced into position. No wire or pegs are required, as the surfaces are broad and union will readily occur. After the wound has been stitched up, splints are applied as just described (see p. 98). In these cases the splints should be kept on some- what longer than in a simple fracture, but equal care must be taken to carry out active and passive movements of the fingers and wrist. It is as well to keep the splints on for about five weeks, shortening them as already described. Passive motion of the fingers should always be begun from the very first, and of the wrist after about ten days. SEPARATION OF THE LOWER EPIPHYSIS OF THE RADIUS. CAUSES.—Separation of the lower epiphysis of the radius sometimes occurs in young subjects and is more often due to direct than to indirect violence. If any of the epiphyses give way in the latter form of violence, it is usually that of the lower end of the humerus. The line of separa- tion is more transverse, the displacement is more directly backwards, and chere is not the characteristic rotation of the lower fragment, nor do the fragments over-ride as in cases of Colles's fracture. RESULTS.—Bad results not uncommonly follow this accident from arrest of development of the radius; this may be very considerable and may necessitate the removal of a portion of the lower end of the ulna at a later period, in order to keep the articular surfaces in their proper relative positions and to prevent deviation of the hand to the radial side. TREATMENT.—This is essentially the same as that of Colles's fracture (see p. 98). FRACTURE OF THE STYLOID PROCESS OF THE ULNA. This may occur in connection with Colles's fracture, but it may some- times be met with as the result of a direct blow over the inner side of the wrist, as for example by a stick. TREATMENT.—The treatment consists in putting up the limb with the hand in the adducted position so as to relax all tension upon the internal lateral ligament of the wrist joint. Union most often occurs by fibrous tissue. FRACTURES OF BOTH BONES. Fracture of both bones at the lower end of the fore-arm is not common, and usually results from severe direct violence. The treatment is prac- tically the same as that for Colles's fracture (see p. 98).