THE SURGICAL AFPECTIONS OF BONES. 54 plate to the two fragments (see Fig. 19, J). If the bone be cyHndrical, a single piece of aluminium encircling about three-fourths of its circum- ference should be employed ; otherwise it is better to use two narrow plates, one on either side of the bone (see Fig. 19, B). Complete fixation can be obtained by this plan, which is of great value when there is a marked tendency to rotation of the lower fragment. It is well not to detach the periosteum from the ends of the bone; no doubt there is less risk of bleeding if it be detached, but it is possible that the delay in union is to some extent increased by this detachment, and the aluminium plates can be fixed quite as firmly outside the periosteum as beneath it. Bone-grafting.—When the ends of the bone are atrophied, or when there is a considerable interval between them, bone-grafts may be employed with advantage. These are best obtained from the ends of the bones themselves. Portions of the bone along with the periosteum are chipped off by a chisel and wedged in between the fragments; naturally, wiring or pegging the bones cannot be attempted here. This method of introducing bone-grafts between the fragments is sometimes extremely successful; in a case which we had not long ago, where several unsuccessful operations on the ununited fracture had been carried out, union was obtained by simply removing the soft tissue between the bones, chipping off a piece of bone from one surface and driving it like a wedge between the two fragments. PF/icn the non-union affects a part, such as the leg or fore-arm, iti zvhich there are tivo parallel bones, care must be taken that the ends of both bones come into apposition. This is usually easy if both bones be ununited, but, when the non-union affects one bone alone, it will be found, on refreshing the fractured ends, that they do not come into proper apposition on account of the rigidity of the other bone ; the best plan here is to divide the sound bone and remove enough of it to correspond with the interval left between the fragments of the one ununited. It is well also to wire each of the bones so as to prevent lateral displacement of the ends. When however the interval is very small, we would recommend the insertion of bone-grafts between the fragments, in cases where only one bone is affected, as pre- ferable to the division of both bones, because the sound bone acts as a very efficient splint and much better fixation of the fragments is obtained than if both be divided. After-treatme?it.—When the ends of the bone have been fixed together, the wound should be stitched up and steps taken to immobilise the limb. The best plan is first of all to incorporate in the dressing splints of block tin or wire-netting rendered aseptic by boiling and moulded round the limb so as to fix the neighbouring joints in the manner already described for compound fracture (see p. 33). Outside these splints further fixation -apparatus may be employed if necessary. Unless much saturated with blood, the dressing need not be changed for about six weeks. If it be necessary to change it soon after the operation, it is well to give the patient an anaesthetic and to change everything, washing the splints with a 1-20