FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 119 impacted fracture, where the impaction has not been reduced, that bony prominences interfering with subsequent movement are chiefly met with, and in these cases therefore the surgeon may find it necessary to cut down and chisel away the obstructing portions of bone. FRACTURES OF THE GREAT TROCHANTER.—The great trochanter is sometimes broken off without any solution of continuity occurring between the shaft of the femur and the neck; this accident however, is of great rarity. Displacement.—The detached portion is carried upwards and back- wards by fhe muscles attached to it, and if the fibrous structures be entirely torn through, the separation may be marked; it may then be very difficult to bring the fragment into position by any means short of an operation. Treatment.—The most satisfactory method is to make a curved incision of suitable size with its convexity forwards over the great tro- chanter, and thus to raise a flap which is thrown backwards and exposes the fractured process; this is pulled into position, the limb fully abducted so as to relax the glutei, and the fragment secured in position by one or two screws or pegs (see p. 51). The wound is closed and the limb put up in a position of abduction; it can be retained in position by sandbags, whilst a long splint is applied to the sound side so as to prevent movement of the trunk. The sandbags may be discarded when the wound has healed, and the limb is then put up in a firm plaster of Paris spica in the abducted position. The patient should be kept horizontal for about six weeks and may then be allowed to bear weight upon the limb. There is usually no difficulty in obtaining a perfectly useful limb. FRACTURES OF THE SHAFT OF THE FEMUR. Causes.—-The shaft of the bone may be fractured in any situation, the most common being just above the centre; fracture may be due either to direct or indirect violence. When due to direct injury the line of fracture is generally more or less transverse, whilst that resulting from indirect violence, such as a fall upon the knee or the foot, is generally oblique or somewhat spiral. Displacement.—The displacement varies according to the situation and obliquity of the fracture. In fractures just below the lesser trochanter.—In fractures situated high up in the shaft, just below the lesser trochanter, the upper fragment is generally tilted forward, and at the same time rotated outwards and somewhat abducted by the pull of the psoas and iliacus. The lower fragment is drawn upwards behind the upper fragment and usually also slightly inwards by the adductors ; it is markedly rotated outwards owing to the weight nf thj limb.