192 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. will suppurate interminably, just as if a sequestrum were present in it. This is one reason why such great stress has been laid on the free opening up of the cavity in the bone; if that be done, there is not the same tendency for the aperture in the bone to become too small before the cavity fills with granulation tissue. The objections to stuffing the wound until healing has taken place have already been referred to, and while they do not apply to the same extent in superficial bones such as the tibia, they are so weighty in the case of deep-seated bones like the femur that this plan should not be adopted. In superficial bones such as the tibia, some surgeons adopt the plan of undermining the skin for a considerable distance, pulling it over the wound and pressing it into the cavity in the bone, so as to get it to adhere to its sides; frequently however these flaps slough and frequently also adhesion fails to take place, so that this is not a method which we should recommend. Probably the best plan is, when on the fourth or fifth day it is found that sepsis has occurred, to withdraw the plugs, introduce a large drainage tube at the lower angle of the wound, or still better, to make a separate hole for the drainage tube in the skin at a little distance from the wound and then to stitch up the whole line of incision. Healing can thus be got over the cavity, so that there is not that drawing-in of the skin and the formation of a gutter which is so great an obstacle to proper healing when stuffing is resorted to. At the same time, the drainage tube ensures free escape for the pus, and if the opening in the bone has been made large enough, and more especially if the periosteum has been removed, there is not the same risk of the opening in the superficial structures closing before the cavity in the bone has filled up. After-treatme7it.—The limb should be placed on a splint for a week or two, but it need not be kept so rigidly at rest as in the other cases, because the filling-up of the cavity will not be so materially interfered with by movement. Great care should be taken here, even more than in the case of bone-grafting, to keep the neighbouring joints free and to prevent adhesions of the muscles to the margin of the cavity, because here, much more than in the former case, adhesions are extremely apt to occur. The splints should therefore be left off as soon as the wound in the skin has healed, and the patient encouraged to move the limb in bed, while at the same time pas.sive motion should be practised. It is well, however, not to allow the patient to hang the leg down or to walk until the wound has healed, especially .when the tibia is affected; in the case of the upper extremity, of course, the patient need not be in bed after he has recovered from the operation. These patients have usually been pulled down very much by the previous acute illness and by the prolonged suppuration that has followed it, and steps must therefore be taken to improve their nutrition and to keep up their strength. They should be placed on the most generous