ACUTE INFLAMMATION OF BONE. contrary, the s)'mptoms subside in two or three days, the stuffing may be removed and the wound stitched up again except at the lower end where a drainage tube should be retained and kept in position until it is gradually pushed out by the granulations. If there be no sequestrum present, the wound will heal readily enough; if one is going to form it will be evidenced partly by the presence of a sinus and partly by the presence of bare bone which can be felt with a probe. But it must not necessarily be assumed that a sequestrum will of necessity separate in cases of acute periostitis because bare bone is felt for two or three weeks after the abscess is opened. If the bone continues bare for six weeks or a couple of months, then no doubt the great probability is that a sequestrum will have to be removed later on. (2) Of Acute Osteo-myelitis.—Here the danger mainly arises from the confinement of the pus under pressure within the medulla, and the patient's safety depends to a very great extent on the pus finding an exit either naturally or artificially at an early period. Osteotomy.—Directly the diagnosis of acute osteo-myelitis is made, no time should be lost in trying palliative measures; a free incision should be at once made down to the bone. By a free incision is meant not merely one through which the finger can be introduced, but an incision extending over the whole of the affected part of the bone. The periosteum should be incised, and the hard shell of the bone should be cut away so as to expose the medulla. This may be done by means of two or three large trephine holes afterwards joined together by a chisel and hammer, or the whole part may be laid open by a chisel or gouge and hammer. The medulla will be found very vascular, and generally infiltrated with pus ; usually a drop or two of pus exudes as soon as it is opened. All this soft inflamed and infiltrated tissue should be thoroughly scraped away and the cavity sponged out with undiluted carbolic acid. Although a very free opening should be made into the medulla, it is not necessary to lay it open from top to bottom when a large extent of bone is involved; it suffices to make two or three large openings into the bone and through them to scrape out and disinfect the whole of the medullary cavity. Although in the patient's depressed condition it is inadvisable to perform a more severe operation than is absolutely necessary, still there must be no hesitation in getting very free access to the medulla. In all probability the bone exposed by the first incision will in any case die; and it is possible by cutting it away freely to actually remove the whole portion which would have died, and so to ensure a proportionately rapid recovery. Drainage.—After the medulla has been thus opened up and disinfected, drainage tubes should be introduced into it, and pieces of iodoform gauze may be put in between the tubes to keep the skin edges apart. This gauze packing should not extend into the depth of the wound; if the latter be stuffed tightly, as is sometimes done, the pus may be confined