THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 46 ferably in both ways. It is sometimes a good plan, if there be an intense craving for stimulants, to spice the food with cayenne or other condiments in order to gratify the desire for stimulation of the palate. When the case does not go on well and the pulse becomes feeble, rapid, and com- pressible, the administration of alcohol is called for. An ounce of brandy may be given every three or four hours ; some recommend the use of port wine in doses of an ounce every hour. (7) Bed-sores.—In many cases of fracture, particularly in elderly people, the prevention of bed-sores is of the highest importance. The prophylaxis and treatment of bed-sores have been already referred to in detail (see Part I., p. 66). (8) Necrosis.—This is a very common complication of compound fractures in which asepsis has not been obtained, and suppuration has taken place; it results from the occurrence of periostitis and osteo- myelitis. The treatment of these complications will be fully dealt with under diseases of bones (see Section II.). (9) Mal-union.—By the term mal-union is meant the union of a fracture with the fragments in faulty position. There may be either -shorten- ing from overlapping of the fragments or some angular deformity. In most cases the mal-union does not give rise to any marked disability, but in others the limb may be crippled ; this is most likely to be the case if the mal-union has occurred in the neighbourhood of a joint, in which case the movements of the latter may be more or less completely interfered with. Causes.—Mal-union may be due to (i) imperfect reduction and co- aptation of the fracture in the first instance; (2) the fracture may be put up in perfect position, but, owing to imperfect apparatus or the occur- rence of spasm of the muscles, etc., deformity may subsequently recur; (3) it may result from the yielding of the callus that has formed during the consolidation of the fracture; this may be either the result of too early removal of the splints (in which case the patient bears weight upon the limb before it is strong enough), or from some constitutional condition which prevents the formation of sufficiently firm bone. Treatment.—It is obvious that this mal-union is preventible in the majority of cases. When it results in interference with the usefulness of the limb, an attempt must be made to rectify the faulty position. An angular deformity detected before consolidation is complete can gener- ally be easily remedied by splints properly adjusted along the concavity of the limb, combined with elastic pressure exerted over the seat of fracture. Care must of course be taken not to employ too great a pressure, as otherwise ulceration beneath the elastic band will occur; when, the union is pretty firm, it is best to administer an anaesthetic first of all,, and to bend the soft callus so as to straighten the limb before applying retentive apparatus. The exact form of apparatus employed must be devised to suit the individual case and it is impossible to lay down