52 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. thread is wide, the shank long, and the head small, while the whole screw only tapers very slightly; they are first coppered, and then plated with silver. Ordinary screws can be quite safely used if they are thoroughly disinfected by boiling before use, but the screws usually met with are too large in the head and shank and taper too rapidly, and so are more likely to split the bone than those illustrated above. The size of the screws and the number inserted will, of course, vary with size of the bone operated upon. Ivory pegs may also be used, but they very soon become loose and allow a certain amount of movement. This may be to some extent avoided by using pegs square in section and fitting the drill hole tightly. They are much more easily driven in than if they were round, and get a firmer hold, while the intervals left between the round hole and the square peg permit of the escape of lymph or blood. The pegs are usually made 3 inches in length, but it is well to have them quite 6 inches long, as they are then driven in by the mallet much more conveniently and with less danger of bruising the soft parts. When in position, the projecting end is cut off flush with the surface of the bone by cutting pliers. FiG. ij.—Peters's Forcefs. As shown in the diagram, the fragments can beheld firmly in apposition while the bone is being drilled. These forceps are provided with an extra blade which can be made to replace the one shown uppermost in the figure. The one here represented is the larger, and is employed when screws are to be used; the smaller one is designed for use when wires are to be inserted. Wires are also sometimes used for oblique fractures, but they are seldom so satisfactory as the other methods just mentioned ; if used, they should be inserted as follows. Two holes are bored side by side through each of the fragments ; the corresponding holes in each fragment should come opposite each other, and are best made by one insertion of the drill through the entire bone, the fragments being held in exact apposition while they are drilled. A special pair of forceps for holding the fragments together during wiring or screwing is shown in Fig. 17. The end of a stout piece of wire^ is then passed through the corresponding holes in each ' The size of the wire will of course vary with the bone operated upon ; the sizes generally employed are Nos. 5, 6, and 7 French gauge, i.e. 5, 6, and 7 mm. in cir- cumference.