263 AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER JOINT. of the limb, while, on the other hand, if an assistant be employed to make digital compression, he is very apt to become tired and to relax his pressure upon the artery. The safest plan in all cases is to secure and divide the artery in the axilla between two ligatures at the commencement of the operation. The incision for this purpose may often be so planned as to mark out one of the flaps. Incision.—The operation is done by carrying an incision from the tip of the coracoid process downwards as far as the insertion of the deltoid, if the state of the tissues permits, or, if it does not, as far down as possible upon the outer side of the arm. From this point it is carried backwards and upwards to the root of the acromion. When this flap is dissected up it should consist for the first inch or two of skin, subcutaneous tissue and deep fascia; then, should the deltoid be free from disease, this may also be raised as the flap is further dissected up. It is generally easy to expose the axillary artery in the incision before proceeding to dissect up the flap; the vessel should be divided between two ligatures, the upper part being stripped up out of the way, so that it shall not run any risk of damage during the later stages of the operation. Disarticulation.—After the deltoid flap has been raised, the two ends of the incision are united by another incision on the inner side of the arm which forms a flap of sufficient length with its convexity downwards. The length of this must of course vary with that of the deltoid flap. Where it is possible to cut the latter the full length the internal flap need only be extremely short. A longer one will be called for if from any cause the deltoid flap has to be made shorter than usual. The deltoid flap is held well up and disarticulation is effected; the external rotator muscles are divided close to their insertion into the great tuberosity, the capsule is opened and the knife is slipped round the head of the bone and made to divide the tissues forming the deeper part of the internal flap. Removal of the joint entire.—When the amputation is done for malignant disease of the upper end of the humerus, it is as well to remove the glenoid cavity and the whole of the capsule of the joint, lest the disease should have infected this structure; in these cases the division of the rotators should be effected not immediately over the tuberosities, as is done in excision, but at some little distance from the joint; then, if the condition of the parts permits, the neck of the glenoid cavity should be cleared without opening the capsule at all and should be snipped off with powerful cutting pliers or divided by a chisel, and the whole of the glenoid cavity with the capsule of the joint intact should be removed in one piece without opening the joint at all. In some ca.ses of course the anatomical condition of the parts will prevent this. By lateral flaps.—Another amputation recommended in this situation that recjuires mention is that by lateral flaps. The incisions for this operation commence just below and external to the tip of the coracoid process and curve downwards and to either side until they meet at a