9 FRACTURES: GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. In this connection it may be mentioned that, in spite of proper attention to position, the muscular contraction may sometimes be so great as to keep up the displacement, and it may therefore be advisable to divide tendons in order to neutralise the pull of the muscles. This is sometimes necessary in fractures about the ankle, where, in spite of flexion of the knee, the gastrocnemius pulls back the lower fragment. Retentive apparatus.—After reduction of the fracture, measures must be taken to keep the fragments at rest until consolidation has occurred. Of course, in such fractures as those of the skull and the upper jaw, in which there is no likelihood of a recurrence after any displacement present has been reduced, these measures are not necessary. The following are the chief methods in use: (i) Bandages and strapping; (2) splints of various kinds, including immovable apparatus made of plaster of Paris, etc.; (3) extension in its various forms; and (4) operative interference designed to mechanically fasten- the fragments together. 1. Bandag'es and strapping.—These are chiefly employed in frac- tures involving the trunk, and are only very rarely used for those affecting the extremities. In fractures of the clavicle, for example, and in certain fractures of the jaw, no splints are required, bandages or strapping being sufficient to secure proper coaptation and immobilisation. In fractures of the ribs also, strapping applied to the chest, in the manner to be described later on, suffices to ensure a sufficient amount of immobilisation. In fractures of the extremities this is rarely sufficient, although in certain instances it may be all that is required; such are fractures of one meta- carpal or metatarsal bone, where the neighbouring bones act as efficient splints. Here a bandage to keep the parts at rest is all that is necessary. The exact manner in which bandages and strapping should be applied will be dealt with when we describe the particular fractures for which they are employed; we may mention here that it should be a cardinal rule in most cases (the chief exception being fracture of the ribs) that the bandages or strapping should not be put over the actual seat of fracture. This is important for two reasons : in the first place, the pressure upon the line of fracture causes pain to the patient, and may actually bring about a recurrence of the displacement, while, in the second place, considerable irritation of the soft parts over the fractured ends will occur, and this will result in inflammation and possibly ulceration of the skin. Indeed, simple fractures have thus become converted into compound ones in the course of a few days. 2. Splints of various kinds.—In speaking of splints we shall confine our remarks chiefly to fractures of the extremities, and here it will be well to lay down certain general rules which are applicable to the treatment of the majority of these fractures. {a) It is important to immobilise any joint acted upon by muscles attached to one or other of the fragments. Hence, in almost all cases, the joints above and below the fracture should be included in the splints.