291 AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE HIP JOINT. trunks, and also in a large degree to the septic infection of the wound which so frequently occurred afterwards. At the present time these dangers have much decreased, owing partly to improvements in the methods of operation and partly to the profound alteration in the treatment of wounds; the result is that in cases of amputation at the hip, except when done as a primary amputation for injury, the mortality is extremely slight if the patient be in good health when the operation is performed. The bleed- ing can be controlled quite satisfactorily, and the loss of blood rendered extremely slight. Further, when there is plenty of room, the soft structures may first be divided comparatively low down in the thigh and the head of the bone subsequently dissected out. In this way the large nerve trunks are divided at a much lower level than formerly, and the shock is thereby much diminished. Besides this, the flaps can be so planned that the line of incision is at a considerable distance from all sources of sepsis, which, combined with the improved antiseptic arrangements now in vogue, renders the avoidance of septic infection fairly certain. Amputation at the hip joint has to be performed under two different sets of conditions. In the one case the nature of the disease permits of the formation of long flaps and of a preliminary division of the bone below the trochanters, whilst in the other the flaps have to be short, and disarticu- lation at the hip joint must be carried out at once without any preliminary division of the shaft of the bone. We shall describe operations suitable for each of these two main indications. The operation is generally required for tumours of the femur, but it may also be necessary in some cases of bad crushes of the limb, especially when the thigh is torn off; it may be called for in some rare cases of bone disease, such as widespread necrosis or extensive tuberculous disease of the femur, while some surgeons perform it for bad hip-joint disease where the trouble has extended on to the ilium or where there is lardaceous disease —in some instances with considerable benefit. (a) Cases in which the nature and situation of the disease do not call for disarticulation in the early stagres of the operation.— Here the control of haemorrhage, the diminution of shock, and the arrangements for avoiding sepsis are much more satisfactory, and the mortality is comparative slight. Fumeaux Jordan's amputation.—The most suitable operation in these circumstances is that devised by Furneaux Jordan or some modification of his operation. It consists essentially of a more or less circular amputation of the limb' well below the trochanters, and subsequent enucleation of the upper end of the bone. The nerves are divided low down and the angle of the wound is at a considerable distance from any possible source of contamination. Control of the circulation.—In this operation the bleeding can be controlled without any difficulty by a band applied as a spica around the hip joint (see Fig. 98). The vertical strips of bandage along the inner and outer sides should be employed as shown there, and it is well PT. III. T 2