AMPUTATIONS. 278 original points are connected by an incision carried directly across the front of the ankle from one point to the other by the shortest route, so that there is no dorsal flap. The next step is to dissect up the heel flap from the os calcis. The assistant should raise the limb until it is on a convenient level for the surgeon, and should point the toes so as to relax the structures over the heel while the flap is being raised. This is done by pressing back the edge of the flap with the thumb o£ the left hand whilst everything is dissected up down to th£ periosteum. As the flap is raised, the thumb pulls it back and prevents it from being damaged by the knife, the edge of which should be kept strictly in contact with the bone. The greatest difficulty is met with as the prominence of the heel is reached; at this point special care must be taken not to nick the posterior tibial artery on the inner side of the flap, as such an accident would dangerously imperil the nutri- tion of the flap. As soon as the prominence of the heel has been passed, the difficulty of the operation is over. The assistant then puts the tendo Achillis on the stretch and the surgeon divides this structure and continues to peel up the flap gradually from the posterior surface of the ankle joint. When the heel flap has been raised to the level of the ankle joint the surgeon takes charge of the foot himself, bends the toes forcibly down- wards and proceeds to disarticulate from the front. This is done by deepening the original incision across the front of the instep, dividing the tendons and opening the joint. The lateral ligaments are next divided and finally the posterior ligament; the posterior tibial artery must be guarded from damage during the manipulations on the inner side. After the foot has been removed, the soft parts are cleared from the lower end of the bones as far up as the level of the articular surface; in doing this, great care must be taken not to damage the posterior tibial artery and also not to buttonhole the posterior flap, as is sometimes done by careless operators who double it up against the skin of the leg and forget that it is so doubled. While the leg is held horizontal the saw is applied at right angles to its long axis just above the articular surface of the tibia. It is not necessary to remove the whole of the articular cartilage unless it be diseased; all that is requisite is to saw off" the malleoli. The vessels requiring ligature are the anterior tibial in the centre of the dorsal flap, the posterior tibial, or more probably its internal and external plantar branches towards the inner edge of the heel flap, and one or two small vessels on the outer side. A small counter opening is made in the centre of the heel flap behind for the insertion of a fine drainage tube; this is very necessary, as otherwise the flap is certain to fill with blood, and healing may be considerably interfered with. The wound is next stitched up, and in doing this it is well to employ several stout interrupted fixation stitches inserted at some little distance from the cut edges so as to prevent any chance of the heavy heel flap falling backwards and becoming