NECROSIS. flat bones, such as the skull, the production of new bone is not nearly so marked, and there is very seldom anything like complete enclosure of the dead fragment in a bony cavity. The result of this is that the necrosed bone can rarely be got rid of without operation. Sometimes small fragments become broken off, and gradually work their way to the surface, being pushed out by the granulation tissue, but the main mass still remains, and nothing but an operation will suffice to get rid of it. As long as the sequestrum is present, suppuration persists, and the inflammatory condition of the bone around continues, so that there is steadily increasing condensation of the bone, and fistute are formed in the skin, along which a probe can be passed through the cloacae and made to impinge on the sequestrum. It is often impossible to make out whether the latter is loose or not, because the cavity in which it lies is too small to permit of movement, or because the sequestrum is large, or because it is convex and represents a great part of the surface of the bone; but we know that in any case if six months have elapsed since the acute attack the dead fragment will be loose. TREATMENT.—The treatment consists in removing the dead bone as soon as it is loose. Until then, the application of antiseptic ointments, such as the full strength boracic ointment, and boracic lint, over the sinuses is all that is necessary. There is no object in operating until the dead hone has become loose, and in many cases the time for operating must be determined by the time that has elapsed from the commencement of the trouble rather than by the mobility of the sequestrum. One is often urged to operate on patients with necrosis within a few weeks from the commencement of the disease and very soon after the acute symptoms have subsided, but the dead fragment cannot then be loose, and it would be quite impossible to be sure how much is dead and how much therefore ought to be removed. Sequestrotomy.—In performing the operation it is best, where possible, ■ to control the circulation by an Esmarch's bandage, partly because in a prolonged operation a good deal of blood is lost, and partly because it is difficult to disinfect the part thoroughly if oozing of blood is going on. In some cases high up in the limb it is not possible to apply the bandage satisfactorily and the increased after-bleeding may also be an objection to its use. Nevertheless it is best to employ it whenever possible; the after-bleeding may be checked by plugging the wound very firmly before the bandage is removed. The incision must of course be planned so as to avoid injury to important structures, more especially nerves, while at the same time it must afford the most complete access to the part, and must be enlarged if necessary during the course of the operation. It need not necessarily be in the vicinity of the sinuses ; in fact if better access can be obtained from the opposite side of the limb, the sinuses should be disregarded altogether. The skin and the tissues, including the