AMPUTATIONS OF THE FINGERS. 249 the stretch and divided. The base of the phalanx is cleared by two or three sweeps of the knife and the metacarpo-phalangeal joint is reached and opened from the palmar surface. This is best done by hyper-extending the finger and putting the anterior ligament upon the stretch; it can then be nicked with the point of the knife, the lateral ligaments divided in a similar way and the finger removed. The only vessels requiring ligature are the digital branches of the palmar arch which will be found on either side of the head of the metacarpal bone slightly towards its anterior aspect and close to the bone. The flaps should come into perfect apposition on approximating the fingers, and should form a good covering for the head of the metacarpal. In most cases the incision should run transversely across the palmar aspect of the finger as we have just described, and should not extend at all upwards into the palm. Sometimes, however, particularly in labouring men in whom the skin of the palm is very thick, an unsightly projection of skin may be left at the palmar end of the incision when the flaps are brought together. This can be readily removed by taking out a V-shaped portion there, when the projection will disappear (see Fig. 77, B). This should be done after the amputation has been completed rather than by carrying the original incision up into the palm ; the surgeon is better able to see exactly how much skin can be taken away after the finger has been removed. Unless the case be septic, a drainage tube is quite unnecessary. The cartilage over the head of the bone may also be left, and there is no necessity for any interference with the tendons or the tendon sheaths. Should the case be septic ho-v^ever, the cartilage should be removed, the tendon sheath sewn up with fine catgut and the \Yound sponged over with undiluted carbolic acid. After-treatment.—The usual antiseptic dressings are applied, and the hand is placed upon an anterior splint extending some distance up the fore-arm, so as to fix the wrist joint. The fingers next the seat of amputation on either side should be fastened together by strips of gauze so as to avoid all tension upon the stitches. In a week or ten days the wound should be healed, when the stitches may be removed and the splint discarded. REMOVAL OF THE HEAD OF THE METACARPAL BONE.— Should it be desired, for the sake of appearances or on account of disease, to remove the head of the metacarpal bone at the same time, this may be readily done by simply prolonging the vertical dorsal incision somewhat upwards. The head of the bone is then freed from the surrounding parts by a periosteum detacher and the point of the knife, and may be cut off by cutting pliers or by a special metacarpal saw. The incision through the bone should be made obliquely from behind downwards and forwards (see P'ig. 77, C). AMPUTATION OF THE INDEX AND LITTLE FINGERS.— These amputations may be effected through very similar incisions. In