FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. 143 and the lower fragment is pushed firmly upwards so as to put the liga- mentum patellfe on the stretch; the bone is then fixed in this position by a piece of strapping which has its centre over the ligamentum patella; and the lower fragment, while its ends pass obliquely upwards on either side to be fixed to the edges of the splint. Care must be taken to see that when the strapping is applied the fragment is in proper position, as the object is not only to fix it, but also to prevent the tilting forward which is so marked a feature, and which might result in the cartilaginous surface of the lower fragment being in contact with the bony surface of the upper one. After the lower fragment has thus been fixed, the upper one must be brought down into contact with it; this is usually done by applying a Fig. 58.—Fracture of the Patella treated bv Splints. The lower fragment is fixed by oblique strips of strapping fastened to the splint, and the upper one is pulled down by the elastic apparatus shown above, and attached to the horse-shoe shaped plaster bandaged firmly to the thigh. broad piece of strapping, or " elephant plaster," over the front of the lower part of the thigh, extending from six or eight inches above the upper edge of the patella downwards as far as the line of fracture; it should be cut away over the patella, so that the edge of the bone is surrounded by a horse-shoe shaped piece of plaster. The strapping is then bandaged to the limb, and tapes are fixed to the free lower ends of the plaster on each side; to these are attached pieces of elastic tubing which are fastened to hooks in the footpiece of the splint (see Fig. 58). It is well also, especially in muscular or irritable subjects, to immobilise the quadriceps exten.sor as much as possible by surrounding the thigh with strapping applied obliquely from above downwards. If suflicient extension be applied, the upper fragment of the patella is brought down into contact with the lower.