31 FRACTURES : GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. upon a firm flat pillow. The rubbing and the passive movements can now be carried out more vigorously than before; they may be repeated in sittings lasting from twenty to twenty-five minutes at a time, twice a day. After a week or two of this treatment—by which time the fracture will be about three weeks old—a fair amount of union will have taken place between the fractured ends, and some shorter form of splint, preferably a poroplastic one which does not embrace the joint below, may be substituted for the more rigid apparatus. If the fracture be in the lower extremity, the patient may get about on crutches with a patten on the sound foot; he should be encouraged to move the ankle as much as possible, although of course he must not bear any weight upon it. Massage and passive movement of the ordinary type should still be persevered with as before, until the consolidation is sufficient to allow the weight to be borne upon the limb, when the patient will regain practically complete use of the limb without any loss of time. It is scarcely necessary to say that this form of treatment requires to be carried out with the greatest care, and by a trained masseur if the surgeon be unable to do it himself. In the cases for which it is specially valu- able, namely, fractures in the vicinity of joints, such as Pott's fracture, Colles's fracture, or fractures in the vicinity of the elbow-joint, the treat- ment is if possible still more difficult to carry out satisfactorily than in the more ordinary forms, and demands greater care in preventing undue mobility of the fragments when the passive movements of the joints are carried out. This method, which is the one we are accustomed to employ, seems to us the best, as it strikes a mean between the somewhat rash disregard of the use of splints, advocated by some of the French surgeons on the one hand, and the undoubtedly unsatisfactory method of their prolonged use on the other. TREATMENT OF COMPOUND FRACTURES. In compound fractures the first and absolutely essential point is to secure asepsis of the wound. In former days compound fractures were amongst the most dangerous of injuries, and it was in connection with their treatment that Lister began his antiseptic work. Unless the wound be rendered aseptic, it becomes the seat of septic inflammatory troubles, and the medulla of the bone being exposed, the most grave results very frequently arise. The septic inflammation does not remain limited to the soft parts, but may spread to the medulla and extend upwards as a violent septic osteomyelitis, which in many cases leads to a fatal pyaemia ; or, if the patient survive after a prolonged and dangerous illness, necrosis of the bone results and perhaps after all amputation becomes necessary. Indeed, so dangerous was compound fracture in former times that many surgeons looked on amputation as the best routine practice in the great