GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 233 immediately before the operation and purified by introducing into them small pieces of sponge impregnated with undiluted carbolic acid. The skin in the neighbourhood of the sinu,ses should be covered with a wet cyanide dressing wrung out of a 1-20 carbolic acid or a 1-500 sublimate solution'(it does not matter which). This dressing should extend almost up to the lowest limit of the flaps and should be firmly bandaged on with a wet aseptic bandage so as to prevent the discharge from the sinuses finding its way into the region of the amputation wound during the operation. This is necessary whether we have to deal with sinuses or with larger open sores. Quite apart from the presence of sinuses, it is always well to wrap up the whole of the limb to be removed in a towel soaked in a 1-20 carbolic acid solution. It is difficult to asepticize the whole limb satisfactorily, and the assistant to whom the task of holding it is entrusted might readily infect the wound. This he cannot do if, instead of grasping the skin, he holds the limb encased in an aseptic towel. Wherever it is possible, however, the best plan is to place the limb in charge of an assistant who will hav^ nothing to do with the rest of the operation. Arrest of hsemorrhag'e.—The next preliminary point is to arrange for the arrest of haemorrhage during the amputation. This was formerly done by digital compression of the main vessel, but although this may be necessary even now in some operations, such as those about the shoulder joint, it is a comparatively ineffectual method. The blood supply of the stump is generally derived from more than one large vessel, and the compression of the main arterial trunk does not by any means arrest all the bleeding; moreover, when digital compression is employed, the assistant is apt to get tired, and may relax the pressure at an inconvenient moment. The best plan, whenever there is room to permit of it, is to encircle the limb by elastic tubing or by an elastic bandage—the so-called Esmarch's bandage. Esmarch's method.—In Esmarch's complete method the limb is band- aged spirally with a firm elastic bandage from the extremity to a point w^ell above the region of amputation. At the upper limit of this bandage a length of india-rubber tubing is stretched and wound horizontally around the limb, and when this is fastened in position the bandage is removed. By this mean.s, no doubt, nearly all the blood in the limb is forced into the general circulation and thus is saved to the patient. There are, however, two important conditions in which there are such great objections to the method as to practically render it inapplicable. Should the amputation be done for malignant tumour, the result of compressing the latter by the elastic bandage may very well be to force portions of tumour substance into the circulation, and thus to give rise to secondary deposits elsewhere. Again, should septic conditions be present, as for example septic sinuses or cellulitis, pus may be forced by the bandage through the interstices of the tissues and may lead to general infection. Lister's method.—A plan that is equally efficacious in rendering the limb bloodless is that advocated by Lister, who elevates the limb fbr three or