41 FRACTURES : GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. the accident. The first symptoms are the occurrence of dyspnosa, which is generally very severe, accompanied by pain in the chest, cyanosis, and cough with frothy blood-stained expectoration. If the patient recover from this, signs of pneumonia develop. When the fatty emboli occur in the brain, the symptoms are as a rule much more grave, and are essentially those of delirium, with coma later on. The pulse is small, rapid, and irregular, and the coma gradually deepens until death ensues; in some cases, however, the coma slowly passes off and recovery takes place. The symptoms are rarely severe when the emboli are in the kidtieys; at the most they may cause a certain amount of strangury and hsematuria, but usually they manifest themselves only by large quantities of oil in the urine. Treatment.—In all cases of fatty embolism the first thing obviously is to prevent as far as possible the further entrance of fat into the circulation. With this object the fracture must be reduced immediately and completely immobilised. When the patient is restless or inclined to be delirious, a Croft's splint (see p. 14) is the best apparatus to employ. In the treatment of the embolism itself nothing specific can be done; all that is possible is to treat the symptoms as they arise. Stimulants are naturally strongly indicated, and they are best given by the mouth in the form of brandy, or in the more severe cases, when the brain is affected, in the form of subcutaneous injections of ether or brandy. When the emboli are in the hmgs, a very useful procedure is to cup the sides and back of the chest (see Part I., p. 6); later on, the applica- tion of a mustard leaf or mustard poultices (see Part I., p. 17) will help to relieve the dyspncea. The patient should be kept warm and have plenty of fresh air. Inhalations of oxygen (see Part I., p. 196) should be em- ployed if there be much cyanosis, and, later on, large poultices or fomenta- tions may be applied to the chest. The bowels should be kept thoroughly open and the patient's strength supported by food, stimulants, and tonics. COMPLICATIONS OCCURRING DURING THE PROGRESS OF THE CASE.—Various complications which require a brief notice may occur during the progress of a fracture. The following are the chief: (i) CEdema of the part, pruritus and the formation of vesicles; (2) phlebitis and thrombosis; (3) gangrene ; (4) the various septic complications, such as suppuration, erysipelas, cellulitis, tetanus, etc.; (5) oedema of the lungs and hypostatic pneumonia; (6) delirium tremens; (7) bed sores; (8) necrosis; (9) mal-union; (10) non-union; (11) inclusion of nerves in the , callus; and (12) adhesion of muscles or tendons to the fractured ends. (1) (Edema, pruritus, and vesication.—The occurrence of oedema and the formation of vesicles over the region of the fracture are chiefly met with where the injury is due to direct violence, and where there has been much extravasation of blood. The conditions will of course be predisposed to by undue mobility of the fractured ends and by any pressure of splints or bandages.