141 FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. hooks are used by some, and a subcutaneous operation much upon the Hnes of that devised by Mr. Barker is employed by others. But the objection to them all is that the essential lesions which tend to prevent bony union are not remedied; that is to say, even if they succeed in securing perfect adaptation of the fragments, which is doubtful, the torn portions of periosteum and fibrous- tissue are still left interposed between the fragments and offer a bar to proper union. If the surgeon be an adept at aseptic surgery there is no more danger in the open operation than in the others, whilst the result obtained is very much more satisfactory. Advantages of operative method.—Sometimes the patient is disinclined to submit to an operation and the decision does not lie with the surgeon. Before however the patient is allowed to decide, he should have clearly explained to him the result of treatment in the two cases. With an operation the result is practically perfect restoration of the functions of the limb within a very short time; we have frequently had patients able to go about their business within five weeks after the injury without even using a stick and who have subsequently regained absolutely perfect use of the limb. The result of course entirely depends on the asepsis of the wound; if that can be assured, there is really no risk in the matter. On the other hand, progress is extremely slow in cases not treated by operation, and it is often a matter of six months or more before the patient can bear any weight at all upon the limb or can do without some form of apparatus for keeping the fragments together; it is still longer before he can dispense with the aid of crutches or a stick. During this time the muscles of the limb atrophy, so that there is a still further loss of power and' it takes a considerable time, even when the fracture is fairly well consolidated, before the patient can get about at all satisfactorily At first the movements are feeble, slow and uncertain, partly from the weakness of the limb, partly from want of confidence, and very often from actual stiffness in the joint. A not uncommon result of fractures treated by the expectant method is a more or less stiff knee from adhesions which follow upon inflammation and the long rest necessary to obtain close fibrous union. These adhesions when extensive are all the more difficult to get rid of, because the force required to break them down may seriously imperil the ligamentous union. Besides this, the union that occurs between the fragments is never bony, and although at first the fibrous tissue may be short, broad and firm, and the fragments closely approximated, the uniting medium gradually stretches with movement and the strain put upon it, so that ultimately there may be a very considerable gap bridged across by an elongated thin fibrous band. It is true that cases are recorded and shown where the patient gets along very well after treatment by splints, but it must be remembered that such a result is not the rule, that it is only obtained after very prolonged treat- ment and is never absolutely perfect. The limb is never quite sound, the patient as a rule cannot go upstairs without dragging his leg behind him, he cannot kick, he cannot go down an incline without considerable diffi-