36 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. cases of bad compound fracture to a successful termination, especially when the bone is comminuted, is a primary amputation. But with the exception of these cases an attempt should always be made to save the limb whenever the surgeon feels that by careful purification and the establishment of satisfactory drainage he will probably be able to obviate the occurrence of septic infection and will therefore possibly be able to preserve a limb that will be useful to its owner. As will presently be mentioned, the mere rupture of the main vessels or nerves of the limb in addition to a compound fracture does not necessarily call for primary amputation. When the vessels are divided the case should be watched to see whether gangrene occurs, and amputation can be performed if it be found that within the first twenty-four or forty-eight hours this is inevitable. When the nerves are ruptured they should be sutured in the manner recommended for injuries of nerves (see Part II., p. 250) at the same time that the wound is purified. It should also be mentioned that union is often considerably delayed in compound fractures, and it is not an uncommon thing to find that at the end of six or eight weeks the fragments still move upon one another. Indeed it may almost be said that this is the rule rather than the exception and that something like three or four months is necessary to obtain satisfactory union in the majority of compound fractures. It is somewhat difficult to understand why this should be, but probably it is due to the absence of the external callus, which plays a considerable part in the repair of simple fractures. TREATMENT OF COMPLICATED FRACTURES. The complications incidental to fractures may be divided into two groups—(i) Those that occur at the time of the injury and are due directly to it, and (2) those that occur during the subsequent progress of the case. IMMEDIATE COMPLICATIONS.—The following are the chief com- plications occurring at the time of the accident, {a) The skin may be divided or torn in the vicinity of the fracture without, however, any communication with the fracture itself being established, {b) There may be an injury to the main artery of the limb, {c) Injury to the main vein, (d) Injury to the nerves, {e) Injury to a neighbouring viscus. (/) Injuries to joints, {g) Dislocation complicating the fracture, {h) Fatty embolism. There are other complications, but these are the most important. (a) Wounds of the skin not communicating with the fracture. The treatment of a complication of this kind is simply that of a wound of the soft parts; the skin and the wound must be purified and the appropriate treatment for a lacerated wound must be adopted (see Part I., p. 191). (b) Injury to the main artery of the limb.—In some cases the main artery of the limb may be completely torn across and profuse haemor- rhage may occur into the tissues. If the vessel be large and the tissues lax,