THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. So addition; through this a drill is passed while the bones are held in accurate apposition and is made to perforate the two condyles transversely from side to side. When lateral incisions are used, the drill is passed through one of them. Into the drill hole is driven either a plated steel pin, the end of which projects from the opening to permit of its subsequent removal, or a square ivory peg, which may be cut short and left in. Through the posterior incision the condyles, thus united to one another, should be fastened to the shaft of the bone by suitable pegs or screws if the obliquity of the fracture allows ; if not, a wire must be employed. Generally the antero-posterior diameter of the bone at the seat of fracture will be so small that the use of the smallest screws or pegs is out of the question, and a wire or wires must be inserted. The steps of the operation must, however, vary according to the circumstances of each individual case, and cannot be described in fuller detail. Sometimes the course of the line of fracture is such that the best hold will be obtained by merely screwing each condyle separately to the shaft without joining them to each other first. The wound is sewn up without a drainage tube after all the bleeding has been arrested, and the limb is put up in a Croft's splint in the fully flexed position. The operation must of course be done with strict atten- tion to antiseptic precautions, and the wound should heal by first intention. The subsequent treatment is the same as where no operation has been performed, namely, the use of massage and passive movement. If a metal pin has been inserted it may generally be removed about the end of the third week, but there is no reason why movements and massage should not be carried out without reference to it, provided that a piece of gauze soaked in a 1-2000 sublimate solution be carefully wrapped around the end of the pin and the wound in the skin during the per- formance of massage. (3) Of fractures of either condyle alone.—The joint is here of course necessarily involved, and the surgeon has the choice of two procedures, either to put the patient under an anjesthetic, manipulate the fragments into proper position and then put up the limb much in the same position as that recommended for supra-condyloid fracture, applying a pad over the front of the fractured condyle to keep it in place, or to cut down and secure the fragments accurately in position. The latter is undoubtedly the better method, for, as has already been pointed out, a very slight irregularity in the joint surfaces will lead to serious disability. We therefore recommend that operation under strict aseptic precautions should be undertaken without loss of time. A f^ap with its convexity forwards should be raised over the fractured condyle and turned back until the latter is exposed. The soft parts over the condyle are separated Trom it to the necessary extent at the upper part by a periosteum detacher and retracted, the elbow being flexed whilst this is done. The line of