13 FRACTURES: GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. hours generally gets a number of splints ready for use by placing cotton wool or tow over the splint and keeping this in place by means of a piece of linen which is sewn over the back of the splint. Splints so padded are quite useless, because they are made without any reference to the shape or peculiarity of the limb to which they are to be applied. The surgeon should pad the splints himself immediately before he puts them on. This is best done by arranging tow or wool over the splint, making it thicker where hollows are present. Over this is placed a piece of folded linen which overlaps the splint in all directions; when the splint is to be left on for some time, it is well to place a layer of boracic lint between the linen and the skin so as to absorb the sweat and prevent its decomposition. In addition to padding of this kind, small pads made of wool or tow sewn up in muslin should be at hand and these may be arranged between the limb and the splint wherever it is required to avoid pressure upon bony prominences. Methods of fastening splints.—Splints may be fastened to the limb by straps or bandages. It is a common custom to fix the splints by means of strips of strapping applied around them in two or three places, and no doubt, as a method of preventing them from slipping, this is a good plan. It is only necessary however where flat wooden spHnts are employed and it has the disadvantage that, as the strapping is unyielding, constriction will be caused and the oedema below will be increased if the limb swells. In most cases .splints may be perfectly well fastened on with bandages, and this is certainly the most comfortable and convenient method. In a few days the original bandages may be removed and fresh ones applied, or a fresh bandage can be put on outside the first if the latter be getting loose; this may be done without disturbing the fracture in the least. There is not the same risk of oedema of the limb below when bandages are used as there is when strapping is employed. When splints are applied to each side of the Hmb they may be most conveniently fixed by strips of webbing and buckles applied in three places —top, bottom and middle of the splints. If these be not at hand, strips of bandage tied in slip knots may be substituted; outside this an ordinar)- bandage may be put on. The advantage of this plan is that the outside bandage can be taken off and the line of fracture inspected as often as may be necessary without loosening or disturbing the splints in any way ; if the slip knots become stretched they can be easily tightened up one at a time without causing any disturbance at all. Plaster of Paris splints.—A very useful form of splint which is applicable to a large number of fractures may be made with plaster of Paris. This may either take the form of an immovable casing completely surrounding the limb and destined to remain on for some time, or of lateral or antero-posterior splints hinged so that either or both can be easily removed to permit of inspection of the limb. The latter form of apparatus is that generally known by the name of Croft's modification of the Bavarian splint, and is of such general utility that we shall describe its application in detail.