FRACTURES OF THE' MIDDLE OF THE FORE-ARM. In both ununited and badly united fracture it is as well after operation to fix the elbow joint as well as the hand, and a Croft's splint is the best method of doing this. The splint should extend as high as the axilla; if it does not the elbow joint will not be properly fixed. As soon as the wound has healed, the arm should be put up in a silicate casing which extends as high as the axilla, fixes the elbow at a right angle and keeps the fore-arm midway between pronation and supination ; the wrist joint should also be fixed, with the hand extended upon the fore-arm and the fingers left free. This apparatus should not be left off until union is complete. It must however be confessed that it is extremely difficult to get firm union after an op'eration for an ununited fracture of the fore-arm. FRACTURES OF THE LOWER THH-ID OF THE FORE-ARM. The following injuries may be met with in this situation. Fracture of both bones a little distance above the wrist; separation of the epiphysis of the radius; fracture of the radius near its lower end—CoUes's fracture; and fracture of the styloid process of the ulna. COLLES'S FRACTURE. This is by far the most important fracture in this region ; it occurs at the lower end of the radius, usually from three quarters to one and a half inches above the articular surface. It is accompanied by a characteristic displacement of the lower fragment and the hand, and is often complicated by rupture of the internal lateral ligament, or by fracture of the tip of the styloid process of the ulna. CAUSES.—The fracture is fairly common and is more frequently met with in old people than in young; it is much more frequent in women than in men. The usual cause is a fall upon the palm of the outstretched hand when the elbow is somewhat flexed; this accident in younger subjects is more likely to produce an injury about the elbow or shoulder joints, but, as life advances and the lower end of the radius becomes more brittle, it usually gives rise to a Colles's fracture. DISPLACEMENT.—In falls upon the palm the force is transmitted from the thenar eminence to the radius, and the bone breaks at its weakest part; at the same time the lower end of the radius is driven backwards and upwards, and is also somewhat rotated, so that the articular surface looks downwards, backwards and somewhat outwards instead of directly downwards. The fracture is usually but not invariably impacted. When impaction occurs, the upper fragment is driven into the lower and it is not uncommon to find the latter considerably split up, the fracture often extending into the joint. The line of fracture is usually more or less transverse from side to side, but is oblique from below upwards and back- wards. There is frequently rupture of the internal lateral ligament of the wrist joint and in some cases the attachment of the triangular fibro-cartilage to the ulna is also torn through. PT. III. G