THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. external to this spot, and it was also unimpaired over the greater part of the astragalus. A carefully disinfected skein of worsted was next passed around the heel and across the instep and attached to pulleys, by which firm extension was made (see Fig. 49); at the same time the lower end of the tibia was pushed outwards, so that the foot was extended and inverted simul- taneously ; an assistant also pressed the external malleolus forcibly inwards. Before the latter could be displaced inwards sufficiently, it was necessary to remove some soft tissues between the tibia and fibula, but after a little trouble the parts were completely loosened, the astragalus could then be pushed into proper relation with the lower end of the tibia, and the deformity entirely disappeared. The wounds were stitched up, and dressings were applied in which were incorporated wire splints that kept the foot inverted and prevented the heel from being pulled backwards. Passive movement was begun early with a view to preventing bony union between the articular surfaces. The results were satisfactory; a considerable amount of movement was obtained, while the trouble of which the patients had previously complained, namely, the impossibility of walking, owing to the great pain on the outer side of the foot, entirely disappeared. FRACTURE OF THE LOWER END WITHOUT DISLOCA- TION.—The displacement typical of Pott's fracture does not always occur in connection with fractures of the fibula above the malleolus. Thus the injury may force the foot inwards instead of outwards, the result being that the strain is thrown on the external lateral ligament which is usually strong enough to stand the strain, while the fibula gives way at its weakest part, namely, just above the malleolus. There is little or no displacement of the foot in this form, and therefore the condition is not the ordinary Pott's fracture. Treatment.—The simplest and most efficacious method is to apply a Croft's splint when the case is first seen. The later treatment will be on the lines already laid down for Pott's fracture (see p. 157). DUPUYTREN'S FRACTURE.—Another but much rarer fracture is that known as Dupuytren's. This generally occurs when the patient falls from a height and alights flat upon the sole; the astragalus is driven upwards between the tibia and the fibula, the inferior tibio-fibular ligaments are torn, and the fibula is fractured near the lower end of the shaft, usually a little higher up than in Pott's fracture. This rare fracture is generally produced by very severe violence, and it may be accompanied by fracture of the astragalus or os calcis. The diagnosis is much facilitated by the marked broadening of the ankle that is always present, while at the same time there is not as much eversion as in ordinary Pott's fracture. A skiagram of course will clear up any doubts that may exist. Treatment.—This is often a matter of great difficulty. The astragalus is driven up between the bones of the leg and extension is required to