ACUTE INFLAMMATION OF HONE. I8l were saved, it would be stiff, undeveloped, and useless afterwards. The acute arthritis usually occurs in conjunction with acute osteo-myelitis in the neighbourhood of the epiphysis, that is to say, acute epiphysitis, and therefore if the patient recovers, the surgeon will be confronted not only with a disorganized joint but also with a limb in which there is arrest of growth; the two conditions combined will ultimately render the limb useless, especially if the patient be young at the period of onset of the disease. Osteotomy and Arthrotomy.—In some cases however the symptoms are not so severe and it may suffice to make free incisions into the joint in addition to opening up the medulla as described above. This arthrotomy should thoroughly expose and evacuate every recess, and drainage tubes and, if necessary, continuous irrigation should be employed; it will be best to place the limb in a bath (see Part I., p. 30). Unless however the symptoms rapidly improve under this treatment, it should be given up and amputation performed; if a too prolonged attempt be made to save the limb the patient's life may be endangered. (5) Of acute suppurative osteo-myelitis and periostitis after an open wound.—The foregoing descriptions refer onl)' to these diseases as they occur spontaneously, that is to say, without an external wound; sometimes they follow an external wound, for example, an amputation, an excision, or a compound fracture. Here the organisms spread into and along the medulla and under the periosteum with great rapidity and lead almost certainly to necrosis of the whole thickness of the lower end of the bone, and very often to the formation of sequestra reaching for some distance upwards. The condition is very likely to be accompanied by pyaemia. Amputation.—The best procedure in cases of acute necrosis following amputation wounds seems to be re-amputation of the limb. In compound fractures also, unless the osteo-myelitis be very limited, amputation should be done. The re-amputation should be performed through the neigh- bouring joint or the bone above. It would be useless to attempt to amputate through the same bone, partly because there is generally not enough of it left to be of any value, and partly because it would be impossible to be sure of getting above the disease. Waiting for the separation of the sequestra in these cases is a procedure of very doubtful value. (6) Of acute suppurative osteitis of the flat bones.—So far we have been speaking of the acute suppurative osteitis as it affects the long bones; in some cases it may attack either the short or the flat bones. It is not very uncommon in the skull, the scapula, or the bones of the foot; in most of these instances, however, it occurs after an open wound. When there is an acute osteo-myelitis of the skull, the chances of recovery are extremely small. The treatment must be on the same lines as those already laid down. The diploe must be opened by a trephine