83 FRACTURES OF THE OLECRANON. hampered by the presence of firm adhesions in the joint. Hence it is of importance to obtain bony union if possible, for in the majority of cases treated by apparatus, union occurs only by fibrous tissue, which is apt to stretch afterwards, until in the long run the case is practically one of ununited fracture. TREATMENT.—In recent cases—The best treatment is to cut down on the fracture, to remove any structures interposed between the fragments, and then to fix the olecranon in place by a silver wire capable of standing considerable strain. Operative.—As soon as possible after the fracture is diagnosed, the patient should be put under an anaesthetic, the parts disinfected in the usual manner, and the fracture fully exposed. The elbow joint is semi- flexed and the forearm is carried across the chest, while the surgeon stands upon the affected side. The limb may be ex- tended while the flap is being marked out, but access to the joint in the subsequent stages is facilitated by the semiflexion. The incision should be curved, with its con- vexity downwards; a straight one does not give such free access to the fracture, and it has the further disadvantage that the wire is apt after- wards to penetrate the thin scar which then lies directly over it, and, should refracture occur, the scar is liable to give way and to lead to a com- pound fracture. The incision should begin on one side of the olecranon just below the line of fracture, and should run upwards across the back of the elbow to about an inch above the tip of the olecranon, and then downwards on the opposite side to a point corresponding to that from which it started 1 (see Fig. 31). The flap thus marked out should consist of skin and fascia only, and is turned down so as to give free access to the parts; when the fracture is reached, the torn fascia and the gap between the fragments are at once evident. The rent in the fascia should then be examined ; if it be incomplete, it is well to enlarge it. The torn edges of the fascia will be found ' It is not a matter of much importance whether the incision be made as above and a flap thrown down, or whether a flap be turned up by making an incision with its convexity downwards on the fore-arm reaching well below the line of fracture. In recent cases the one described above is perhaps preferable, as the cicatrix does not lie over a subcutaneous bone surface anywhere. In long standing cases, however, where there is great separation, it may sometimes be advisable to turn the flap upwards because it is then easy to prolong the ends of the incision up along the back of the arm if it should be necessary to lengthen the triceps (see p. 88). Fig. 31.—Incision kor wiring THE OLECRANON. Thedottedlines indicate the outline of the bones.