212 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. SCURVY-RICKETS. DEFINITION.—By the term "scurvy-rickets" is understood a condition that is really a true scurvy occurring in infantile life. The name is some- what misleading as it seems to infer that a ricketty condition is an integral part of the affection, whereas, although both scurvy and rickets are not at all infrequently found associated together, the latter disease has no causal relation to the scurvy, which is of the same type as that found in adult life, and which, moreover, may occur in infants without any ricketty change whatever. ETIOLOGY.—As is the case in adults, scurvy in infants is due to defective feeding, and is primarily caused by a lack of fresh animal and vegetable food. That this should occur among the children in large cities is at first sight somewhat difficult to explain, but an explanation has been suggested by Dr. Sutherland^ and others who draw attention also to the fact that the disease has become decidedly more prevalent during the last fifteen or twenty years. According to these authors it has been found that, while healthy breast milk and fresh cow's milk—even when the latter has been just raised to the boiling-point and allowed to cool—are perfect foods for infants from an anti-scorbutic point of view, the same cannot be said of either the "sterilised" milks or many of th'e artificial infants' foods upon the market. With regard to the "sterilised" milks, it may be remarked that while "Pasteurisation"—i.e. subjecting the milk for 20-30 minutes to a tempera- ture of 160° F.—does not affect its anti-scorbutic properties, true "sterilisa- tion," by keeping it at or above the boiling-point for 20 minutes or more, does so in a very marked degree. The same is true of the various infants' foods prepared artificially, whether they take the form of preserved milks or starchy foods, or a mixture of the two; the treatment they have to undergo destroys their anti-scorbutic powers, and therefore they cannot be relied upon as the sole article of diet. Even meat or meat-juice cannot be depended upon entirely to prevent scurvy; possibly it might do so were meat eaten quite freshly killed, but this is rarely the case, and scurvy has been known to occur where meat has formed part of the diet. Fruit and vegetables, of course, possess high anti-scorbutic properties. It does not absolutely follow, however, that a child brought up for a long time on a diet of preserved milk or patent foods will develop scurvy; it is only safe to say that a child so brought up is not proof against the affection. There is often a history of some preceding trouble in the ali- ^Dr. G. A. Sutherland, Clinical Joiininl, 1897. The reader desirous of further infor- mation on this subject may with advantage consult this paper, from which many of the above points are taken.