THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 1/6 and its free escape from the medulla of the bone prevented, 'i'he only object of putting in stuffing is to. hinder the edges of the skin and the separated muscles from coming together; which would prevent healing from the bottom. The wound must be kept completely open for a few days and afterwards drained thoroughly. If a long trough has been made in the bone, it is a very good plan to stitch up the greater part" of the wound as soon as the acute stage of the disease has passed off or to deal with it in the way to be presently mentioned in spqaking of the removal of the sequestra. After-treatment.—The limb must be put on a splint, the joints above and below the affected bone fixed in the position in which they will be most useful afterwards, and the case treated antiseptically, the general health being well attended to. This fixation should not be continued too long; provided the joints be healthy, daily passive movements ought to be begun as soon as the acute stage has passed off. The joints not uncommonly become stiff from the inflammatory swelling of the tissues around, quite apart from any actual infection. Moreover, they may not move properly afterwards because the muscles in the vicinity of the affected bone may become adherent to it, or their individual muscular bundles may be matted together. For these various reasons movement of the joints is desirable as soon as the acute inflammation has subsided; at the same time the healing of the wound might be very materially interfered with if the patient were allowed to move the joint himself, especially if he were to walk about, and therefore only passive movement should be carried out at first. As healing progresses, however, the patient may be allowed to perform some movements himself, but in any case the part should be kept elevated; in the case of the lower extremity the recumbent position should be maintained until the wound has healed. Should any portion of the bone die, healing will, of course, not occur until the sequestrum has been removed; this subject will be treated of presently. Complicatio7is. — Among the chief risks of acute osteo-myelitis are septicaemia and pysemia, and, in spite of free and early operation, the patient may still succumb to these diseases. If symptoms of pycemia, such as rigors, etc., occur, the state of the main veins of the limb should be examined to see whether any of them are thrombosed, and if so, whether the affected portion can be cut off from the general circulation (see Part I., p. 214). In many cases, however, and especially in the deep-seated bones, this cannot be clearly ascertained, because the veins leading from the bone are deeply seated, and the thrombosis may not have extended to the larger vessels. Under such circumstances, amputa- tion through the joint or bone above should be at once performed, as it offers almost the only chance of recovery. If a thrombosed vein be found in the amputation stump it should be dissected out well beyond the thrombosed region and removed. Amputation is no doubt very