205 SYPHILIS OF BONE. carbolic acid, stuffed with iodoform gauze and made to heal from the bottom. At the same time the constitutional treatment should be vigorously pursued. As a rule very satisfactory results will be obtained in this way, whereas tertiary syphilis of bone is very often very rebellious to internal antisyphilitic remedies alone, more especially when there is an external ulcer. IN HEREDITARY SYPHILIS.—The changes in the bones in ^here- ditary syphilis are of great interest; one of the earliest is inflammation of the ends of the long bones,'particularly those of the tibia, the humerus, the femur and the ulna. This affection is often symmetrical, and usually affects the diaphysis in the immediate neighbourhood of the epiphyseal line, the condition often going by the name of " osteo-chondritis." It generally occurs at a very early period of life; the bone becomes very much thickened in the neighbourhood of the epiphyseal line, and a tender swelling occurs which forms a collar around the end of the bone, and is due to very marked enlargement and periosteal deposit. In some cases the condition may go on to separation of the epiphysis and destruction of the epiphyseal line. The changes which are produced in this situation very much resemble those of rickets. During the first year of life also there is a tendency to the production of bosses of spongy bone on the skull, especially near the sutures; four bosses are often found around the anterior fontanelle, giving rise to the natiform skull. At a later period there may be gummatous changes in the bone similar to those which occur in adults, and there may be destruction of the nasal bones, of the palate, and of other bones in an exactly similar manner. Treatment.—In the earlier stage of hereditary syphilis of bone, mer- curial treatment (see Part I., p. 236) is the best. No special local application beyond the use of mercurial ointment is necessary except when there is much tenderness about the epiphysis, in which case it is well to fix the part. In the later stages iodide of potassium, combined with mercury, is the proper treatment (see Part I., p. 237). RHEUMATIC PERIOSTITIS AND OSTEITIS. Osteitis may also occur as the result of rheumatism, which affects bones as well as joints. Rheumatism chiefly gives rise to periostitis, with con- densing osteitis beneath ; in some cases the whole thickness of the bone may be involved. Treatment—Medicinal.—In the early stages the treatment of rheumatic osteitis consists in the use of salicylates, iodide of potassium, re^t and counter-irritation. The affected limb should be put on a splint, blisters applied over the inflamed bone, or Corrigan's cautery used (see Part I., p. 20); internally 10 to 30-grain doses of iodide of potassium, or lo-grain doses of salicylate of soda should be given three times a day.