THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 24 by which the extension is made Hes in the long axis of the Hmb. The weight is connected with the limb by means of strapping applied in the following manner; we shall take as an example a fracture of the shaft of the femur. The whole limb is first shaved so as to avoid the inconvenience that the adhesion of the strapping to the hairs would entail upon the patient. Two pieces of strapping are then taken, one for each side of the limb, and long enough to reach from about six inches beyond the sole to a point about four or five inches above the seat of the fracture. They should be broad enough to almost entirely cover the lateral surface of the limb on each side, and hence they will be wider in the thigh than in the leg, and will gradually taper as they approach the ankle. Fig. 13.—Stirrup for Weight Extension. The lower figure A shows the shape of the lateral pieces of strapping applied to the limb by a bandage, and the manner in which the upper end is turned down and the bandage carried downwards over it. The pad above the malleoli is also shown. The upper figure B shows how the lower ends of the two lateral pieces of strapping are fi.\ed to the footpiece. The end of one piece overlaps that of the other, the holes through the wood and the two pieces of strapping are superposed and narrow strips of strapping applied at right angles to the ends of the long ones bind them firmly to the wood. The strapping is applied to each side of the limb so that the lower ends project six inches beyond the sole, whilst the upper end reaches to about four or five inches above the seat of the fracture. As ulceration is apt to occur over the malleoli from the pressure of the strapping, a. pad of boracic lint should be interposed between the latter and the skin over the base of each malleolus, so as to ensure that the strapping .shall pass clear over these prominences without touching them. A bandage is then applied firmly and smoothly from below upwards, and carried up to just below the seat of fracture. The free upper ends of the strapping are then turned down, and the bandage is continued downwards over them until they are completely covered (see Fig. 13, a). Some surgeons fix the lateral pieces by two or three circular strips of strapping applied above the