AMPUTATIONS. 234 four minutes before the horizontal elastic tubing is applied. The effect of elevating the limb is to empty the veins by gravity and to cause the arteries to contract reflexly, so that on the one hand all the venous blood rapidly runs out of the limb, while on the other comparatively little arterial blood finds its way into it. The limb is kept elevated for about three minutes, and the elastic tubing is then applied horizontally in the desired posi- tion, as high above the seat of amputation as the anatomical conditions of the parts allow ; it will then be found that practically as little blood is lost as when Esmarch's complete method is adopted. It is important how- ever to remember that the limb should not be kept elevated too long, as otherwise the arteries will recover and dilate, and more blood will flow into the limb. Seat of tourniquet—In applying the tourniquet, it is important to put it on as far away as possible from the amputation wound ; if it be applied too near to the seat of operation the tubing may offer a serious barrier to the retraction of the muscles, because it binds them firmly to the bone, so that they cannot well be pulled up. Another disadvantage is that the band is very apt to slip off over the flaps when the bone is sawn. Material for tourniquet.—AMien the amputation is being performed in the lower extremity, a band of stout india-rubber tubing is the best material to employ; the muscles are numerous and fleshy, and con- siderable force is required to arrest the circulation satisfactorily. In the upper extremity, however, the use of stout tubing of this kind is apt to be accompanied by undue pressure upon the nerves, which may give rise to more or less temporary paralysis. A better plan is to substitute for it a broad elastic bandage wound several times horizontally around the limb ; this exerts more equable and evenly diffused pressure. In certain special cases, such as amputations at the hip joint, etc., modifications of this method will be required; they will be referred to subsequently. In any case the tourniquet, either india-rubber or elastic bandage, should be disin- fected by soaking for some hours before use in 1-20 carbolic acid solution. After the elastic tourniquet is removed there is no doubt unduly free and persistent oozing from the stump. In most amputations however it is un- necessary to keep the tourniquet in position long enough to produce any marked or lasting paralysis of the vessels, and therefore there is not the same objection to the use of the bandage in them as there is in various other more prolonged operations. Prevention of shock.—In the more important amputations, and particularly in feeble subjects, the prevention of shock is a matter of the highest importance. The various measures both for the prophylaxis and treatment of shock have already been dealt with in detail in Part I., p. 139. The more important of these are performing the operation upon a warm table, preliminary injections of strychnine, and rectal enemata of brandy and beef-tea. As a rule, however, there is but very little shock, even in such amputations as those through the thigh, except in cases of primary