FRACTURES OF THE FIBULA ALONE. 155 Sometimes the internal malleolus is broken off by direct violence, such as a kick, without any fracture of the shaft. Treatment.—In the latter case there will be no displacement of the foot and but little of the malleolus ; it suffices to put the leg up in a Croft's splint and to keep it in this for about a fortnight. It must be taken down daily from the first for passive movement and massage. Union usually takes place readily. FRACTURES OF THE FIBULA ALONE. FRACTURE OF THE SHAFT.—Apart from Pott's and Dupuytren's fractures, the shaft of the fibula is very rarely fractured alone on account of its deep situation; should fracture occur, the displacement is usually slight, as the tibia forms an excellent splint. Treatment.—All that is necessary is to apply a Croft's splint and keep the limb in it for two or three weeks, opening it daily from the first for the employment of massage and passive movement of the ankle. After three weeks the splint may be left off entirely, the massage and passive movement being continued; the patient may be allowed to walk in four or five weeks' time. It is essential to see that there is no mal-position of the foot. ^ POTT'S FRACTURE.-Definition.-This is a fracture of the lower end of the fibula accompanied by an outward displacement of the foot. The fracture of the fibula is frequently associated with fracture of the internal malleolus; sometimes, however, the internal lateral ligament of the ankle gives way and the malleolus either remains intact or a mere shell of bone is torn from it. The essential features of the injury are the fracture of the fibula and the dislocation of the foot. Displacement.—The fibula is fractured from an inch to an inch and a half above the base of the malleolus. The typical Pott's fracture is always due to indirect violence; fracture may occur in this situation from direct injuries such as kicks, but it is then unaccompanied by the dis- placement of the foot and cannot therefore be looked upon as a Pott's fracture. In most cases of Pott's fracture there is a tendency to dis- placement backwards as well as outwards; in cases which result from catching the heel, the backward displacement is very marked and has to be specially counteracted. As the fibula breaks, the internal malleolus usually gives way and there is more or less tearing of the anterior and posterior tibio-fibular ligaments. The fracture is usually transverse and there is some angular displacement. This injury is of very great import- ance, because marked disability will result if the displacement of the foot be not properly remedied; when the fracture has been allowed to go untreated, the patient is hardly able to walk at all. Complications.—A variety of complications may be met with in Pott's fracture, of which the following are the principal: (i) The fracture always communicates with the joint, and therefore there may be great difficulty