THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 112 one apparatus is to employ a long Liston's splint which in these cases is used without any perineal band. The splint is most comfortably applied in the following manner. A sheet is taken and folded so that its width is equal to the distance from the perineum to the heel. A second sheet or piece of stout flannel of a width equal to the distance from the axilla to the iliac crest is also taken. The long splint is laid upon one end of each of these folded sheets, which are arranged so that they will be in proper position when the splint is applied, and the latter is rolled up in them for three or four turns so as to fix them firmly (see Fig. 39); the free end of the upper sheet is then passed beneath the trunk and that of the lower one around the lower extremity. The limb is brought into the corrected position by traction and slight abduction, and the splint,— which should reach from the axilla to well below the sole of the foot,—is then applied, pads being inserted between the splint and the limb where necessary. The upper sheet is now brought around the chest and fastened to the Fig. 40.—Liston's Long Splint. The splint applied. After the splint has been put in position the free end of the upper sheet is brought around the thorax and pinned to the portion rolled up around the splint as shown above. The lower sheet is brought around the extremity and similarly fastened. The slot for preventing rotation is shown at the lower end of the splint, and the extension apparatus is also indicated. The lower ex- tremity is slightly abducted. splint by means of long blanket pins, while the lower one is wound around the lower extremity and the splint so as to fasten the two firmly together, and is similarly pinned to the splint. In addition to this it is necessary to adopt some means to prevent recurrence of the eversion; the best plan is to take a flat piece of wood which rests upon the mattrass and upon which are fixed two rectangular iron brackets, one on either side, forming a slot into which the lower end of the splint is received, and in which it is free to slide horizontally, but is unable to rotate (see Fig. 40). After-treatment.-—^When an attempt is to be made to obtain bony union, this apparatus should be kept on for ten or twelve weeks; the period of six weeks for which a fracture is usually kept up is much too short for intra-capsular cases. During this prolonged treatment it is necessary to see that bed-sores do not occur, that the patient is kept absolutely quiet, and that there is no irritation or ulceration of the skin from the extension apparatus.