FRA(JTURES OF THE TIBIA ALONE. 153 As these fractures are at some distance from the joints, there is no risk of stiffness either at the ankle or the knee; but it is well to keep the foot at right angles to the leg, so that, should anchylosis occur, the patient can put the sole of the foot flat on the ground ; this is also the best position from which to commence passive movement afterwards. Compound Fracture.—The occurrence of a wound is very common in the fractures due to direct injury ; this wound may not communicate with the fracture, but it often does so. Treatment.—This is sometimes very difificult. The treatment of com- pound fractures in general has already been described (see p. 31), and we would refer the reader to the methods of disinfection of the skin, and the treatment of the wound described there; the point of greatest difficulty in the management of the case is how to provide on the one hand for the due immobilisation of the fracture, and on the other for the proper care of the wound. If the fracture be comminuted it should be carefully e.xamined with the fingers, and any fragments absolutely detached should be removed; only those that retain any connection with the tissues around should be left, after being manipulated carefully into position. Any incision made by the surgeon for the examination of the wound should be stitched up, while the original wound is left open. It is useless to attempt to bring the contused edges together, because they will not unite by first intention, and besides this it is necessary to provide for drainage should sepsis occur. The best splint is that known as Maclntyre's, and consists of two metal troughs, moulded to receive the thigh and leg, hinged together opposite the knee joint, and capable of being flexed to any degree b)- means of a screw at the back. The limb should be put up with the knee bent nearly to a right angle. The splint is provided with a foot-piece which can be inclined at an angle. The heel must be properly sup- ported ; this may be done by passing a broad bandage across opposite the heel through the slots in which the foot-piece moves and tying it behind the splint. By tightening this sufficiently the heel can be raised or lowered to the requisite degree. The splint is padded with a folded sheet, over which is placed a piece of jaconet or mackintosh sponged over with 1-20 carbolic acid solution, so as to prevent the sheet being soaked by discharges from the wound. Upon the splint thus prepared is placed, first, a thick layer of salicylic wool, and then pieces of cyanide gauze reaching from the ankle to the knee; these should be arranged like a many-tailed bandage, so that when the leg is in position upon the gauze the ends can be folded over in front. ^Vhen this has been done, salicylic wool is applied over the dress- ing in front, and the leg firmly bandaged to the splint. In arranging the padding the leg must be kept carefully in position and there must be no pressure on any bony point. The usual rule for ascertaining whether the limb is in proper position is to see that the inner condyle of the femur, •the ball of the great toe and the internal malleolus are all in the same