FRACTURES : GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 51 (5) Care should be taken when cutting the bone to do so in such a manner that, when the two refreshed surfaces are applied to one another, the limb shall be in the correct position as regards rotation. In these ununited fractures the lower fragment is very apt to be rotated in the wrong direction—generally outwards, and if the bone surfaces are cut so that, when applied to each other, the position of the lower fragment remains as before, the limb may be in a faulty position. This is a point to be very carefully attended to. (6) After having refreshed the ends of the bone in this manner and brought them into proper position, it is well in all these cases to use some mechanical means to retain them in that position. Ununited fractures unite very slowly after operation, and, apart from the increased security from the fixation of the bony surfaces by means of wires, pegs, etc., the presence of these foreign bodies assists union by keeping up a certain amount of irritation at the seat of fracture. Fig. 16. —Screws and Dkill foi« Fixation of Fractuues.— A shows the form of screw (n.Ttiiral size) recommended by Mr. Arbuthnot Lane for these oper.itions. The screw is practically the same width throughout its whole length, — ' e. it doss not taper at all—and has only a very small head, so that very little counter- sinking is required for its reception. These screws are first coppered and then plated with silver. B. " Reamer " or drill for enlarging the hole in the bone to fit the shank of tlie screw. These drills should correspond in size to the screw used. Fixation methods.—Various methods are employed for fixing the bones together. When the fracture is very oblique, the use of screivs, as sug- gested by Mr. Arbuthnot Lane, answers very well, but care must be taken not to drill the screw holes too near the edge of the fracture, as otherwise the bone is apt to split when they are inserted. The bone is first bored with an awl of suitable size ; it is very important to have a series of awls corresponding to the various sizes of screws, and the one selected should be a trifle smaller than the screws that are to be used. If a fine awl be used for boring for the reception of a stout screw, there will be great risk of splitting the bone. This risk of splitting is still further guarded against by broaching out that portion of the drill hole that will receive the shank of the screw by means of the "reamer" illustrated in Fig. 16. A counter- sink should also be used to provide for the reception of the head; should no such instrument be available, its place may be supplied by a small gouge The best form of screw is that shown above (see Fig.. 16) ; the