32 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. majority of instances, even when there was no injury to vessels, nerves, etc. We now know that wounds exposing a bone or its medulla, if aseptic, are not more serious than wounds of the soft parts, and therefore there is no reason for amputation on account of the fractured bone alone, provided only that the wound can be rendered aseptic. In compound fractures, however, the wound has not been inflicted by the surgeon and is therefore usually soiled, and the problem is, not to prevent the entrance of micro- organisms, but to destroy those which have already gained admission; it will of necessity happen that in a certain, though fortunately only a very small, number of cases, the attempt to render the wound aseptic fails. WHEN THE WOUND IS CONSIDERABLE.—Treatment of the wound in the soft parts.—We have already referred to these points (see Part I., p. 184) in considering the treatment of wounds inflicted accidentally, but it may be well to recapitulate them here. In the first place it will be necessary in all these cases to administer an anaesthetic, and a tourniquet should be applied. The disinfection of the skin for a considerable area around the wound is then undertaken; in the case of a fracture, say in the middle of the leg, the whole leg should be efficiently purified. With this object it is soaked with turpentine to remove fatty matter, and then thoroughly scrubbed with soap and strong mixture (see Part I., p. 46); the whole limb must now be shaved and again treated with turpentine and afterwards with soap and strong mixture and a nail brush. The edges of the skin around the opening which leads to the fracture should in most cases be cut away; they are certain to be soiled and, as they are contused, rapid healing is not likely to occur. The wound should be enlarged as much as may be necessary to obtain thorough access to the injured parts. There need be no hesitation in making a very large incision if necessary in order to see the condition of the deeper parts. All blood-clots should be carefully sponged out and all foreign matter or dirt removed ; any contused tissue should be clipped away and the whole wound thoroughly scrubbed out with strong mixture. Treatment of the fractured ends.—^The ends of the bone should next be examined, and any loose pieces removed; if the fractured ends be very dirty, a thin layer should be sawn or gouged off them. In any case they should be carefully swabbed with undiluted carbolic acid. All parts of the wound also, except the incisions made by the surgeon, should be carefully sponged with the pure acid. It is of course necessary to see that the carbolic acid does not run over the edges of the skin, as otherwise union might be interfered with. After having thus made certain that the whole of the wound and all its recesses have been carefully investigated and cleaned out, the tourniquet may be removed and any bleeding points tied. The tourniquet is employed in these cases to arrest the oozing which, if allowed to go on, would wash off the pure carbolic acid as soon as it was applied and would therefore interfere with its germicidal action. The position of the ends of