AMPUTATIONS OF THE FINGERS. 253 AMPUTATION OF THE THUMB.—The operations for amputation of the thumb are praetically the same as those for removal of the fingers, but the larger size of the bones of the thumb must be remembered and proportionately longer and larger flaps must be cut. What has been said as to the importance of leaving portions of the fingers behind applies still more strongly to the case of the thumb; every additional inch or fraction of an inch that can be preserved is of immense value to the patient, and in practice the operations necessary for the removal of the thumb will nearly always be some form of partial amputation rather than the complete and typical operations described in the text-books. The terminal phalanx of the thumb may be removed in a manner exactly similar to that described for removal of the tip of the finger (see Fig. 80, A). Fig. 80.—Amputations of the Thumb. A. Incisions for amputation of the terminal phalanx. B. Incision for amputation at the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. C. Incision for removal of the thumb along with its metacarpal bone. Ampiitatio7i at the metacarpo-phalangeal joint is best done by a racket- shaped incision which must be carried well down beyond the head of the metacarpal so as to insure plenty of covering for the large head of the bone. In order to avoid pressure on the scar and also to avoid damage to the tendons, it is well to carry the handle of the racket upwards on the outer or radial side of the thumb rather than over the dorsal surface; the oval part of the racket should reach as far down as the middle of the first phalanx (see Fig. 80, B). The scar is thus made to lie to the outer side and is therefore more out of the way of pressure than if the in- ci.sion were made in a position similar to that for amputating the fingers. In this amputation care must be taken to attach the tendons to the end of the stump (see p. 247). When the first metacarpal bone is to he retnoved, it is important to preserve the short muscles of the thenar eminence intact, as they form a fleshy pad which will be of considerable use in aiding the grasp of the hand after