AMPUTATIONS. 286 the flap. It is found in practice that the result is much more satisfactory when the cartilages are left behind than when they are taken away. Various other amputations are performed in this situation in which the amputation goes through the condyles of the femur. This may be necessary, for example, when malignant disease of the tibia extends so high up that it is impossible to get sufficient covering after disarticulation, or when there is disease of the knee-joint itself; it may also be called for in severe injuries or septic troubles, such as extensive necrosis of the leg. Lister's amputation.—Garden's amputation is most generally per- formed at the present day, but in our opinion it is advisable to adopt the modification suggested by Lord Lister in the System of Surgery, Vol. IIL, p. 718. The disadvantage of Garden's original operation is that sloughing may occur in a portion of the long anterior .flap, and it is evident that this risk will be diminished if the flaps be made shorter by not carrying the horns of the incision so high up the limb on each side. Lister's amputation is performed as follows : "The surgeon first cuts transversely across the front of the limb from side to side at the level of the anterior tuberosity of the tibia, and joins the horns of this incision posteriorly by carrying the knife at an angle of 45° to the axis of the leg through the skin and fat (see Fig 96, B). The limb being elevated, he dissects up the posterior skin flap, and then proceeds to raise the ring of integument as in a circular operation, taking due care to avoid scoring the subcutaneous tissue; and, dividing the ham- strings as soon as they are exposed, and bending the knee, he finds no difficulty in exposing the upper border of the patella. He then sinks his knife through the insertion of the quadriceps extensor, and having cleared the bone immediately above the articular cartilage, and holding the limb horizontal, he applies the saw vertically and at the same time transversely to the axis of the limb (not of the bone), so as to insure a horizontal sur- face for the patient to rest on. The popliteal artery and vein are then secured, and any articular or other small branches that may require it. When the soft parts are thickened and condensed by inflammation, the integument cannot well be reflected above the patella with such in- cisions of the skin. But the difficulty may be got over by cutting into the joint as soon as the ligamentum patellse is exposed, and at once removing the leg by dividing the ligaments and hamstrings; after which the soft parts can be retracted from the femur sufficiently to permit the appHcation of the saw. The arteries having then been secured, the patella is dissected out at leisure." As thus performed, the amputation takes a little more time and trouble than when the large anterior flap is formed; but any extra trouble is amply repaid by the good covering to the bone, the small external wound, and the perfect security against sloughing. Garden's amputation.—In Garden's original amputation a long anterior flap is formed by cutting downwards from the point at which the condyles