269 REMOVAL OF THE SCAPULA. an oval incision and removed. In other cases an l-shaped incision gives the best result. This incision, commencing at the acromion process, runs along the upper border of the scapula to its vertebral angle ; from the centre of this a vertical incision is carried down to the inferior angle, and at the lower end of this a second transverse incision is made. This gives two flaps which are turned outwards and inwards, and which will consist simply of skin and subcutaneous tissue (see Fig. 87, B). When however the first incision described can be employed it is of considerable advantage, as the attachments of the trapezius and the deltoid can afterwards be stitched together and thus the movements of the arm may be more satisfactorily preserved. The incision is deepened and the attachments of the trapezius to the upper border of the spine and of the deltoid to its lower edge are divided. The flaps with the muscles are turned aside. An assistant then forcibly pulls the arm forwards and downwards and thus puts the rhomboidei on the stretch so that they are easily divided. The finger is then passed beneath the posterior border of the bone and the serratus magnus is pulled forward and rapidly cut through. If the acromion is to be left behind it should now be snipped across with bone forceps, or if it is to be taken away it should be disarticulated from the clavicle. The teres major should next be divided, and after that the rotator muscles of the humerus are cut across close to the scapula if they be free of the disease, or close to the humerus if they be involved in it. The scapula is now freed except for the attachment of the levator anguli scapute, the omo-hyoid and the supra- scapular vessels and nerves. When they are divided, disarticulation at the shoulder joint is performed and there is nothing to prevent the removal of the bone, as the structures attached to the coracoid process have already been divided. The arteries requiring ligature are the posterior and the supra-scapular. These can often be tied or clamped before division. The posterior scapular is seen immediately after the division of the rhomboidei and the levator anguli scapute, whilst the supra-scapular is not divided until just before the bone is removed, and it can easily be seen' above the supra-scapular notch ; the sub-scapular has of course been already secured through the preliminary anterior incision. After the bleeding has been arrested, the trapezius and the deltoid muscles which have been detached from the spine of the scapula (when the condition of the parts allows this to be done) are sewn together by catgut in the manner recommended for suture of muscles (see Part II., p. 199). As we have already remarked, the union of these two muscles is of great importance to the subsequent usefulness of the arm. If the rotators of the humerus have been divided close to the scapula they may be stitched to the serratus magnus in the same manner; but this is not a matter of so much consequence, because they readily form adhesions to the scar, which gives them a more or less fixed point to act from.