CHAPTER II. FRACTURES OF THE CLAVICLE AND SCAPULA. FRACTURES OF THE CLAVICLE. The clavicle is more often fractured than any other bone in the body. This is of course due to the fact that the whole weight of the body is transmitted to it in falls upon the hand or elbow; it would probably be much more frequently fractured than it is but for its particular shape and its comparatively free mobility. Fracture is most common in infancy and childhood and in the male sex, but it occurs frequently at any age, and in both sexes. The fracture may occur at almost any point in the bone, but its usual situation is at the junction of the two curves near the centre of the bone, and, far less frequently, at the acromial or the sternal extremity. All these fractures may be due either to direct or indirect violence; they may be simple, compound, greenstick or comminuted. DISPLACEMENT.—In the ordinary form.—In the common fracture at the junction of the two curves—which is generally due to indirect violence— there is a characteristic displacement of the fragments. The shoulder, and with it the outer fragment, is depressed, rotated forwards and drawn inwards towards the middle line. The inner fragment retains more or less completely its normal position, as it is held by the unbroken rhomboid ligament. In some cases it is said to be drawn slightly upwards from the pull of the sterno-mastoid muscle; this is however very doubtful. In fracture of the acromial end.—In fractures between the conoid and trapezoid ligaments there may or may not be displacement from the first. In any case the displacement downwards and inwards characteristic of the ordinary fracture is absent; the only one that occurs is rotation forwards of the shoulder, which may be some days before it becomes very marked. This point is important to remember, because, owing to the absence of displacement, the accident may at first be overlooked, and the diagnosis may not be made until deformity becomes evident^ In fracture of the sternal end.—^Vhen the fracture is internal to the