104 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. very marked, and the condition of the structures which are liable to damage. The collapse may be treated on the Hnes laid down in Part I., p. 141 ; in connection with this point it is worth remembering that stimulants should be withheld until steps have been taken to ascertain whether or not the large vessels are damaged. Directly he is seen, the patient should be warned not to pass water; extravasation of urine from rupture of the urethra, which is an avoidable occurrence, can thus be prevented. A patient whose urethra or bladder is damaged feels a marked desire to pass water and will do so unless he be warned to the contrary. The condi- tion of the urethra and the bladder should be ascertained as soon as possible, and if damaged they should be treated appropriately; this will be described among injuries of the bladder and urethra. The patient should be put upon a firm mattrass over fracture boards, and the knees should be flexed over pillows. If it can be managed, it is as well to use a mattrass so arranged that it is not necessary to disturb the patient for the purpose of defsecation ; with this object either a perforated mattrass or one provided with a removable segment is very useful. A broad bandage of unbleached calico should be applied firmly around the pelvis in order to prevent the falling apart of the sides of the pelvic girdle; if there be displacement it sho'uld if possible be remedied whilst the bandage is being put on. There may be considerable deformity, the rectification of which in a female is a matter of some importance ; permanent pelvic narrowing which would interfere with child-birth might otherwise result. The most severe deformity results from depression of the symphysis pubis ; this is readily enough reduced in the female by means of the finger in the vagina. To enable the proper manipulations for reduction of the deformity to be carried out effectually an anaesthetic is desirable. During the first fortnight it is necessary to avoid distension of the abdomen, as this is calculated to pull upon the fragments through the agency of the abdominal muscles, and thus to give rise to considerable pain; suitable laxatives must therefore be administered. Three or four weeks must elapse before sufficient union has occurred to enable the patient to be moved without pain, and it will be about eight weeks alto- gether before he can be allowed to sit up; after another two or three weeks he may be allowed to get about, at first with crutches, and later on with two sticks. FRACTURES OF THE INDIVIDUAL BONES OF THE PELVIS. THE ILIUM.—The ate of the ilium are not uncommonly fractured by severe and localised direct violence; the fracture is generally limited to the false pelvis. Treatment.—The patient should be placed in bed with the knees flexed and fastened over a pillow ; it is not advisable here to apply a bandage as in the cases just described, because its pressure is apt to drive the