88 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. applied with their centre above the fragment (over which is placed a small pad of boracic lint) and the ends are brought obliquely downwards to the sides of the splint below the elbow; it is well to make a small notch in the splint on either side to prevent the strapping slipping up. By this means the two fragments may be kept in apposition for a time if there is not much separation. The strapping will require daily inspection and frequent renewal. If there be much effusion into the joint—as is very apt to happen in cases not operated upon—an ice-bag or Leiter's coils may be applied over the point of the elbow. After-treatment.—The chance of bony union is, however, comparatively slight because the torn fascia is turned in over the broken surfaces and prevents accurate apposition. The fracture will have to be kept in this position for something like six weeks; the limb must of course be taken off the splint from time to time, so as to allow of the employment of passive movements. When these are carried out, the upper fragment must be very carefully fixed and pressed downwards in contact with the lower whilst the elbow is being bent. Even in spite of passive movement there is often a considerable amount of stiffness left, and this is partly due to adhesions in the joint and partly apparently to some irregularity in the car- tilaginous surfaces of the bone, or to some comparatively trifling contraction of the triceps muscle. It may be necessary to employ- an anaesthetic to break down these adhesions; the greatest care must be exercised to avoid the risk there always is of tearing through the weak ligamentous union between the fragments. In old cases.—Besides these, cases treated by apparatus are met with in which the fibrous tissue has become so stretched that there is no effective union between the fragments at all; these may be looked upon as ununited fractures. As a result, the patient sometimes suffers a considerable dis- ability ; this is more likely to be the case if he has to earn his living by manual labour. These patients not infrequently apply for relief, especially when the right arm is affected. The only effectual treatment is that afforded by operation, but favourable results are much more difficult to obtain than in recent fractures. Operation.—In operating in these cases a flap should be raised by the curved incision already described (see p. 83); this may have to extend up the arm some considerable distance before the loose upper fragment with the tendinous and muscular tissues inserted into it is thoroughly exposed. The fibrous material intervening between the fractured surfaces is first cut away and the ends of the bones are refreshed by removing a thin slice from each surface with a saw or chisel, until the whole area of the fracture shows normal bone. An attempt is then made to approximate the fragments ; as a rule it is extremely difficult to bring down the upper fragment into contact with the lower and in some cases it is quite impossible to do so without dividing the triceps. LengtJiening the Triceps.—If the muscle be divided transversely the