293 AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE HIP JOINT. has died of septic peritonitis; short of this, considerable rectal ulceration may be caused by it. Still another plan, namely, the introduction of a skewer behind the femoral vessels and the application of an elastic band in a figure-of-eight over it has been employed; this, however, apart from the uncertainty attaching to the passage of the skewer, is open to the great objection that it can only control the femoral artery itself, and therefore does not command the entire blood supply of the limb. The choice really lies between the spica around the groin or the Esmarch's tubing passed around the abdomen; in most cases the former is quite satisfactory. The operation.—After the circulation has been controlled, towels are arranged so as to cover the whole of the lower part of the abdomen, the buttocks, and the perineum, and the most scrupulous care is taken to purify the limb, especially about the folds of the perineum. The point at which the bone is to be divided is determined upon, and a circular incision, somewhat notched at the inner side, is made around the thigh about an inch below this point (see Fig. 100, A). This notch on the inner side is made to enable the flaps to be raised with greater ease and to be more satisfactorily sutured afterwards. The incision goes through the skin, fat, and fascia, which are now dissected up for about two inches. The muscles are next divided circularly down to the bone, retracted care- fully and the bone is sawn. The next step in the operation is to secure the principal vessels, and then a vertical incision is carried up over the outer side of the femur to about two inches above the top of the great trochanter and deepened down to the bone from which the soft parts are readily dissected off. It is quite safe to remove the tourniquet at the end of the circular amputation after the principal vessels have been found and clamped. There is little fear of bleeding in the later stages of the operation, any large vessels divided being clamped at once. It is usual, when the circumstances of the case allow it, to carry the incision right down through the periosteum, which is stripped off from the bone along with the soft parts. The sides of the vertical incision are then held well apart and the head of the bone is seized in lion forceps, rapidly dissected out, disarticulated, and removed. Some surgeons do not saw the bone after the muscles have been divided in the circular amputation, but make use of the intact femur to aid the manipulations necessary for disarticulation. It is immaterial which method is employed. When all bleeding has been arrested, a large drainage tube leading down to the acetabulum is inserted at the upper and outer part of the wound ■and the rest of the incision is sewn up. The usual antisej^c dressings are applied, and, in order to prevent them slipping, it is well to fasten the inner side to the perineum by means of a layer of dry gauze and collodion, and it is also very important to cover the inner aspect of the dressing with mackintosh in order to prevent it from being soiled. The best way