THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 50 also to remove any local cause which may be interfering with union. It is well in all cases to precede the operative measures by a course of mas.sage and galvanism with a view to improving the circulation and the muscular tone of the limb ; in some cases it will be found that during this treatment consolidation takes place. In former times a variety of methods were employed for producing irritation at the seat of fracture. These were the introduction of a seton, which is naturally a most dangerous proceeding; rubbing the ends of the bones forcibly togther with a view to tearing up the fibrous tissue and producing a raw surface—a method which we have seen in two cases followed by fatal results from fatty embolism ; and the injection of various irritating substances. Of these plans the only one that we shall refer to is the last. Injections.—This is sometimes efficacious when there is little separation between the fractured ends. A syringe fitted with a needle of suitable length is employed for the purpose, and the needle is introduced through the skin and thrust between the ends of the bones. From 20 to 30 minims of tincture of iodine are then injected at various points around the seat of fracture. The limb is put up in proper retentive apparatus, and in some cases it will be found that the amount of irritation thus produced is sufficient to lead to proper consolidation of the fracture. Operative measures.—If this plan fails or is unsuitable, operative measures must be had recourse to. These consist essentially in cutting down on the seat of fracture, and removing all the soft material between the fractured ends along with a thin layer of bone, so as to obtain a fresh surface. When this is done, the fragments are brought into apposition and secured there. W/ien there is only a single bone, e.g. the femur or the humerus, the chief steps in the procedure are as follows: (1) The operation must be carried out with the strictest antiseptic precautions ; the skin should be thoroughly disinfected, and all the other steps described in Part I., p. 161, should be taken. (2) The surgeon makes a free incision over the fracture at a point wher6 he will gain the most satisfactory access to the bone. Considerable help in planning the incision may sometimes be gained by the use of skiagraphy. The incision should be a very free one, so as to enable him to see exactly what he is doing, and it should be made in the long axis of the limb. The soft parts are separated until the fracture is reached, and the region of the fracture is then exposed without at first detaching the periosteum. (3) Then with a chisel and hammer a thin layer of bone is chiselled off each fractured surface, and the slices of bone, with the intervening fibrous tissue, are removed. (4) If the fractured ends are overlapping, extension must be made either by an assistant or by means of pulleys, and any tense bands which interfere with the proper reduction of the fracture carefully divided, provided they do not contain structures of importance.