33 FRACTURES GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. the bones should next be carefully ascertained ; in most cases it will be found well to fix them together either by wires, pegs or screws (see p. 51). The greater part of the wound may then be stitched up, but a large drainage tube should be inserted at the most dependent part and, if necessary, a counter-opening should be made. This drainage is necessary lest the attempt made to purify the wound should fail. Ordinary cyanide gauze and salicylic wool dressings are applied and wherever possible it is well to use a splint of perforated block tin or wire netting (see p. 11) which has been thoroughly purified. The purification is best carried out by boiling, as the grease often present on the metal may somewhat interfere with the action of ordinary antiseptics. The splint should be carefully moulded to the part and should be incorporated with the dressings ; in this way the fracture will be kept at perfect rest. Another splint may be applied outside the dressings if additional security be desired, and the limb should be put in the position best calculated to obtain relaxation of the muscles. WHEN THE W.OUND IS VERY SMALL.—When the wound is extremely small, the surgeon is frequently tempted to simply disinfect the skin and syringe out the wound, and then to apply an antiseptic dressing. No doubt in some cases these measures suffice, particularly when the skin wound has been caused by the protrusion of a sharp bony fragment which has receded immediately afterwards; it is most likely to be effectual in parts that are not covered by clothes. At the same time it is impossible to be certain of the result if this treatment be. adopted, and in the majority of cases it is better, even though the wound be very small, to enlarge it sufficiently to enable the whole of the interior and the ends of the bones to be sponged over either with strong mixture or with undiluted carbolic acid. The wound made by the surgeon can be stitched up again, and no delay in healing will take place. Should, however, the surgeon yield to the temptation to simply disinfect the skin and syringe out the wound, some care must be taken in carrying out the method. In the first place it is necessary to be sure that the lotion comes freely into contact with and washes away the clots from the ends of the bones, and secondly, it must be able to escape freely, and must not be driven along the various planes of cellular tissue. It is well, therefore, to attach a gum-elastic catheter to the syringe, to introduce its point through the wound, and, by inserting it in various directions, especially deep down in the neighbourhood of the bones, to see that the lotion comes thoroughly into contact with all the parts. The lotion should not be forcibly driven into the wound, and if the latter be small it will be necessary to enlarge it somewhat in order to allow of the free escape of the fluid. A good plan to ensure that the fluid is not driven into the tissues under pressure is to use for the purposes of the irrigation a catheter connected with a glass funnel by a few inches of indiarubber tubing. After-treatment.—If the attempt at securing asepsis be successful, the course of events will be the same as after ordinary operations on bone. PT. III. c