37 FRACTURES: GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. the patient may actually bleed to death. Failing this, a large blood swelling occurs, accompanied by loss of the pulse in the limb below and coldness and numbness of the extremity. In other cases the artery may be occluded by the pressure exerted upon it by one of the displaced fragments; or again, it may be punctured by a spicule of bone, with the result that haemorrhage occurs from the aperture and a false or traumatic aneurysm ensues. Treatment.—The treatment of these injuries is fully dealt with under injuries and disease of the arteries (see Part II., p. 293). In the case of a torn vessel it is very important to cut down upon and secure the divided ends or re-unite them as soon as possible. Delay will only render the operation more difficult owing to the infiltration of the tissues with blood and lymph; in addition, if the bleeding be allowed to continue, the in- terference with the circulation in the limb below the fracture will steadily increase and may, should the patient not succumb to the loss of blood, lead to gangrene from pressure upon the collateral circulation. As soon therefore as the diagnosis is made, the skin should be thoroughly purified and the circulation controlled by an Esmarch's elastic tourniquet. A free incision is then made over the vessel, the clots turned out and the ends of the artery searched for and tied; if the latter be torn quite cleanly across, an attempt may be made to unite the divided ends (see Part II., p. 293). If the cavity formed by the extravasated blood be large, it is well to insert a drainage tube for the first two or three days. The treatment of the fracture itself will follow the ordinary lines already indicated. If the fracture be oblique or if there be any difficulty in keeping the ends in position, it is well to take advantage of the incision already made and to fix the fragments together. After the wound has been stitched up, the limb should be put on a splint, the foot of which is slightly elevated. In the second class of accident, where the circulation is interrupted by the pressure exerted upon the vessel by the displaced fragment—an accident which is indicated by loss of pulsation and by coldness of the limb below without the occurrence of any swelling at the seat of fracture —it is possible that, on effecting accurate coaptation of the fractured ends, the pressure will be removed and the circulation re-established. Should this not be the case, the limb below should be disinfected and wrapped up in salicylic wool, as described in the treatment of impending gangrene (see Part I, p. 64), and carefully watched to see whether the circulation returns or whether gangrene occurs. In putting the limb on a splint under these circumstances it is very important that no undue pressure should be exercised on any part, as otherwise, although the collateral circulation may be restored in the limb as a whole, sloughing readily occurs at any point where even slight pressure is exerted. Should gangrene occur, immediate amputation should be resorted to as soon as its extent can be gauged; as a rule it is well to amputate at or just above the .seat of fracture. (c) False aneurysm.—The treatment of false aneurysm has been