273 AMPUTATIONS OF THE FOOT. performed. A point of practical importance for the practitioner to remember is that, just as in the hand, it is' very necessary to leave behind as much of the foot as possible, and that therefore irregular amputations will be far more frequently of use than the set operations described in the text-books on operative surgery. General considerations.—There are one or two practical points common to the various operations on the foot which it may be well to mention here. In selecting flaps, the skin from the plantar surface will form the best material, and should be utilised wherever possible. No scar should be allowed on the plantar surface or upon either side of the foot, as it would be exposed to considerable pressure; it should lie either over the end of the stump, to which there is no particular objection, or some- what on the dorsal surface; if possible it should lie just over the dorsal aspect of the end of the stump. If it comes too high up upon the instep it may be subjected to friction from the boot. So great is the value of even a small portion of the foot—even though only enough be retained simply to preserve the action of the ankle joint—that it is in some cases quite allowable to make flaps that are too short to meet accurately, and to skin-graft the gaps left between them. This however should only be done when the interval so grafted lies upon the dorsum, for a skin-grafted patch upon the sole would interfere considerably with the patient's walking. We have, however, in more than one instance, in bad burns of the foot where the sore would not heal, done a partial amputation through the ulcerating surface so as to loosen the scar, and then skin-grafted the remainder of the wound with highly satisfactory results. Lisfranc's operation.—Several set operations are described for amputation of the foot, but as they are practically never performed we shall not go into them in detail. The first of these is Lisfranc's in which disarticulation is effected through the tarso-metatarsal joints, and the stump is covered in by a long plantar flap which is made to fold upwards over the end of the tarsus. On account of the difficulties experienced in disarticulating the base of the second metatarsal bone, this operation was modified by Hey, who sawed the base of the bone across. It can very readily be understood that in cases requiring amputation in this situation it is extremely seldom that a plantar flap of the requisite length will be obtainable. Should the case be one of severe crush of the toes, some much more partial operation will probably suffice; should the damage involve the metatarsal bones, it is practically certain that the tissues in the sole of the foot will be as seriously injured as those upon the dorsum. In cases of gangrene also, amputation is quite impracticable so near to the gangrenous part, and should the case be one of tumour, the amputation will of course have to be performed at a higher level. Therefore, the operation is practically only performed upon the dead subject. Choparfs amputation.—Similar remarks apply equally to the amputation known as Chopart's, which is frequently performed upon the dead subject PT. III. s