AMPUTATIONS. as the operation is over, the patient should be wrapped in warm blankets and put to bed surrounded by carefully covered hot-bottles. If these pre- cautions be taken it is remarkable how slight the shock often is. By antero-external and postero-internal flaps.—The opera- tion which we prefer in all cases where choice is possible consists in making a flap on the anterior surface of the limb which shall be slightly antero-external rather than directly anterior; this flap should be about seven-eighths of the diaineter of the limb at the point where the bone is to be divided. The object of having the flap somewhat external is to prevent the angle of union of the flaps lying over the femur, which is very liable to be the case when the flaps are anterior and posterior. The posterior flap should be about a third as long as the anterior one and both should consist merely of skin, subcutaneous tissue and deep fascia for the first two or three inches; then a gradually increasing thickness of muscular tissue should be taken up as they are raised, as has already been described for the flap method (see p. 228). While sawing the femur, great care must be taken to keep the limb horizontal and perfectly steady, and the bone should be divided at right angles to its long axis. Special care must be taken when finishing the division of the linea aspera, for, if the assistant does not keep the limb steady, the saw is very apt to become locked, or else the bone may be fractured before it is completely sawn through. Should the latter event happen, the sharp edge of the linea aspera must be snipped off with bone forceps or rounded off with a saw (see Fig. 73, B). A good sized drainage tube should be inserted at the outer angle of the wound, whilst the usual cyanide dressings are appHed and the limb laid in a trough of Gooch's splinting supported upon an inclined plane; both the dressings and the splint should be fastened round the pelvis by a spica bandage. It is very essential to elevate the limb in order to relax the quadriceps extensor muscle, which would otherwise pull injuriously upon the anterior flap. This method of amputation by means of long anterior and short posterior flaps, or by antero-external and postero-internal ones, is applicable to almost any part of the thigh, and the exact position and length of the flaps can be varied according to the circumstances of the case. But irregular operations should always be performed in preference to removing an un- necessary amount of bone. Almost the only amputation which is unsuited for the thigh is that by means of a long posterior flap. » AMPUTATIONS THROUCH THE HIP JOINT. Amputation in this situation was formerly one of the most fatal and unsatisfactory operations which the surgeon was called upon to perform. The danger was due partly to the loss of blood at the time, partly to the profound shock occasioned by the division of large and important nerve