39 FRACTURES : GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. (g) Wounds of joints.—When a fracture is in close proximity to a joint, the articulation may be seriously injured. In simple fractures this may occur from the line of fracture itself running into the joint. For example, in fractures of the patella or the olecranon, the joint is, of course, necessarily implicated; this is also the case in fractures of the articular ends of bones, such as the condyles of the femur, the humerus, etc. The difficulties that occur in these cases—with the exception of fractures of the patella and the olecranon, which will be subsequently referred to in detail—are not so much in promoting repair, as in preventing the occur- rence of deformity and limitation of movement, which almost invariably result when these fractures are put up on splints in the ordinary manner. This is due to the fact that it is almost impossible, on the one hand, to get the fragments into proper position, and, on the other hand, to maintain them there when once they have been properly reduced. A very slight irregularity of the articular surface may lead to marked im- pairrnent of the movements of the joint; indeed, in many cases the resulting limb is so stiff and useless that the surgeon has subsequently to interfere and possibly to excise the joint. Hence when, on a careful examination under an anaesthetic of a fracture into a joint, it is evident that the fragments will not remain in accurate apposition after reduction, it is best to cut down upon the bones immediately, with rigid antiseptic precautions, and fix the fractured ends in position by means of wires, pegs, or screws. Operation in these cases has the further advantage that the wires or pegs so introduced firmly fix the bones in proper position, and thus enable the surgeon to commence passive movements of the joint at a much tiarlier period than would otherwise be feasible. This prevents the occur- rence of adhesions, which, apart from the displacement of the bony surfaces, is a very common cause of the subsequent disability of the limb. Fractures may also be complicated by an injury to the joint in other ways; for example, a lacerated wound of the skin may extend into the joint, although the fracture itself does not. These cases must be treated on the lines appropriate for the treatment of wounds of joints, the fracture itself being put up and immobilised in the ordinary manner. When, how- ever, in addition to the wound of the joint, we have a fracture also extend- ing into it, the broken ends of the bones should invariably be fastened together when the joint is cleaned out, and in these cases free drainage must be provided, because there will always be a risk that the cleansing of the joint may not have been effectual. (h) Dislocation complicating: fracture.—This complication may be met with in two forms. In the first, the fracture may not be situated in the immediate vicinity of the dislocated joint, and under these circum- stances the treatment is obviously to reduce the dislocation first and then to set the fracture and employ suitable retentive apparatus afterwards. Passive movement must here be begun at a very early period ; if the limb