164 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. tibia and fibula in this region the surgeon has to bear in mind the liability that there is for the fracture to become compound; the tendency to shortening and the outward rotation of the foot must be borne in mind. In a simple fracUire due to direct violetice the bones should be brought into accurate position; the two fragments should be in the same straight line, and there should be no rotation of the foot and the lower fragment. In these cases it is well to take a skiagram in the course of a few days before the parts become consolidated and see if the fractured ends are in good position. If there be much bruising of the skin it is well to disinfect it and to apply a cyanide gauze dressing, lest ulceration or gangrene take place. When this is done, the limb may be put up in a Croft's splint, which should extend from the lower third of the thigh to he root of the toes ; care must be taken to see that the foot is at right angles to the leg. After-treatment.—The Croft's spHnt should be kept on for at least six weeks, but after three or four weeks' confinement to bed the patient may be allowed to get about on crutches, still wearing the plaster of Paris casing, the limb being supported by means of a long sling passing around the neck and beneath the sole. The splint may be left off any time between six and eight weeks, but great care must be taken before this is done to be sure that union has occurred. If the fracture be at all low down, this is sometimes a somewhat difficult matter to be sure of, as, when attempts are made to move the fragments in the antero-posterior direction, the move- ment of the ankle joint may simulate movement of the fracture. The best direction in which to test the movement is the lateral one; this should never he omitted, because, if the union be only imperfect, the result when the patient comes to bear weight upon the limb will be to markedly increase the mobility. In the oblique fractures of the leg the immediate application of a Croft's splint before the swelling occurs is the best procedure ; even if marked swelling has taken place, the proper fixation of the part in this way will often both prevent further swelling and aid the absorption of any that has already taken place. In these cases, of course, the toes must be very closely watched, and the sensations of the patient as regards pain ascertained lest any undue pressure upon the seat of fracture should ensue; if there be any sign of that, the splint should be undone at once. Screwing.—In oblique fractures of the leg there is often great difficulty in keeping the fragments in position and in preventing a certain amount of over-riding. If this be the case, and if it be ascertained by means of a skiagram or otherwise that there is recurrence of the over-riding after it has been once corrected, it is best to cut down upon the fragments and screw them together. The fracture in the tibia is superficial, no important structures are divided in exposing it, and the result is superior to that obtained by splints, whilst the after-treatment gives no trouble. The best incision is a curved one over the inner surface of the bone with its con-