FRACTURES OF THE MIDDLE OF THE FORE-ARM. ulna at the junction of the upper with the middle third and a forward dislocation of the head of the radius. TREATMENT.—Of a simple fracture.—The treatment should be directed first to bringing the fractured ends into apposition by manipula- tion, which is best accomplished under an anjEsthetic. The arm is then put up on an internal angular splint with the elbow at right angles and the fore-arui midway between pronation and supination. More comfortable than the ordinary wooden splint is a moulded one of poroplastic material which partly encircles the arm and holds the fore-arm in proper position; the fingers should be left out and should be actively exercised. This splint should be kept on for four or five weeks, after which time the patient may be allowed to use the arm. When there is also dislocation of the head of the radius.—In recent cases reduction of the dislocation is very readily effected under chloroform, provided that the lesion be recognised; any doubt as to the exact nature of the case may easily be cleared up by a skiagram. The head of the radius is pulled into place by simple extension, and at the same time the fracture is reduced. The fractured ends are then manipulated into position, a pad is placed in front of the head of the radius to prevent recurrence of the dislocation, and splints are applied. The fore-arm should be put up more nearly in the supinated than in the pronated position, with the elbow at a right angle. For this purpose a moulded splint is much more efficacious than the flat internal or external angular splint. Passive move- ments, especially those of rotation, should be begun within the first fortnight. I7i long-standi?ig cases, where an unreduced dislocation of the radius exists, it is usually necessary not only to cut down and divide the fracture of the ulna, but to remove the head of the radius. It is sometimes possible to get the head of the radius into proper position after dividing the fractured ulna, but, if not, the loss of the head of the radius does not materially affect the movement of the elbow joint. For the method of exposing the head of the radius, see p. 92. Access to the fracture of the ulna will be got by cutting down directly on it over the subcutaneous surface. FRACTURE OF THE RADIUS ALONE. CAUSES.—This generally occurs from indirect violence, such as a fall u[)on the hand, and is far commoner than fracture of the ulna alone. DISPLACEMENT.—The displacement varies according as the fracture is above or below the insertion of the pronator radii teres muscle. In the former variety the upper fragment will be in a position of complete supin- ation ; this is due to the action of the bicep.s and the supinator brevis muscles. It is also somewhat flexed by the action of the former. The lower fragment, on the other hand, will be pronated by the two pronator muscles, and it will also be drawn somewhat inwards towards the ulna. ■On the other hand, if the fracture be below the insertion of the pronator