280 AMPUTATIONS. are cleared and the malleoli sawn off just as in Syme's amputation. The cicatrix lies along the outer side of the stump, and the patient walks upon skin that is partly derived from the sole and partly from the inner side of the foot. In cases of tuberculous disease of the ankle this operation has the great advantage that the synovial membrane is much more easily removed along with the foot, and there is therefore not the same risk of recurrence in the stump. Fig. 93.—Amputation at the Ankle Joint by an Internal Flap. The thick continuous line shows the incision upon the inner aspect of the foot, that on the outer being denoted by the thick dotted line. The thin dotted line on the bone shows the level of the bone section if the cartilage be healthy ; otherwise it is well above this level. AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE LEG, The general rule that the greatest possible amount of bone should be left in the stump, applies to amputations through the leg as to amputations else- where. Formerly the custom was to divide the bone at what was termed the "seat of election," namely, about a hand's-breadth below the tubercle of the tibia. The reason for this was that pressure was borne upon the bent knee which was received into what was termed a bucket stump, and the bones of the leg were therefore intentionally cut short so that there should be no undue projection behind. Of late years, however, the fitting of artificial limbs has been much improved and the natural movements of the knee joint are utilised; hence the longer the limb the better is the leverage that the patient can bring to bear upon the artificial limb. , Lister's amputation.—The best amputation through the lower third of the leg is that described by Lord Lister in Holmes' System of Surgery, Vol. IIL, p. 717 (see Fig. 94). His description is as follows: "The diameter of the limb having been ascertained by spanning it, a straight longitudinal incision of that length is made at the inner side of the leg, and on the outer aspect another similar incision directly over the fibula