AMPUTATIONS. 274 and in examinations, but is extremely rarely done for the living. The opera- tion consists of a disarticulation at the medio-tarsal joint, the covering being obtained by a long plantar flap which extends forwards to the balls of the toes. In disease of the tarsus this operation is inadvisable, because the disease is sure to extend to one of the articular surfaces of the astragalus or the os calcis, and it is not easy to remove all the diseased synovial membrane. In cases of injury a long plantar flap will be unattain- able, and in cases of gangrene the front part of the plantar surface will probably be involved in the gangrenous process. Quite apart from these drawbacks to the operation itself, the after results are not all good. The tendo Achillis always draws up the heel and therefore depresses the front of the stump. Even if tenotomy be performed at the time of the operation, this tilting of the stump recurs at a later period when the tendon has united. The result is that the patient bears pressure upon the end of the stump and there is considerable pain and ulceration. In our opinion these operations might with great advantage be left out of text-books on operative surgery. Sub-astragaloid amputation.—One of the set operations upon the tarsus however, namely, the sub-astragaloid method, is very valuable and well worthy of trial. The operation consists in removing the whole of the tarsus below the astragalus leaving the latter behind with the ankle joint Fig. 89.—Farabeuf's Sub-astragaloid Amputation of the Foot. The shaded portions of the foot are those removed. The deeply shaded bones, on the other hand, are those left behind. The thick continuous line is the incision on the side looked at, the interrupted one that on the opposite side. unimpaired. This has the great advantage that the natural ankle-joint move- ment can be communicated to the artificial foot. The best method is perhaps that recommended by Farabeuf, who makes a large internal plantar flap (see Figs. 89, 90). The patient lies upon the back with the foot projecting well beyond the