FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 79 lapse of two or three days, whether the bones are in good position. If this be the case, the spHnts may be removed at the end of a week, and passive movement and massage begun. This should be carried out daily from that time forward, the lower end of the humerus being grasped so as to fix the fragments, and the splint being re-applied after each sitting. For details as to the method of carrying out massage and passive movement the reader should refer to the section dealing with the treat- ment of fractures by massage (see p. 29). This fracture is one in which the massage treatment there detailed is likely to prove exceedingly valuable. Union generally occurs rapidly, and with reasonable care there is no danger of disturbing the fragments.; if the splints be reapplied each time after the massage and passive movement no displacement is likely to occur. In about a fortnight the arm may be brought down to a right angle, and after a short time longer the angle may be gradually in- creased ; the back splint, which must be put on afresh after each change in position, should however be worn for something like four weeks after the injury, at the end of which time the arm may be kept in a sling and the patient encouraged to move it. Usually a prolonged period of massage and passive movement is required, as not only do adhesions occur in the joint, but a considerable mass of callus is thrown out, which for a time interferes mechanically with movement, but which gradually becomes absorbed. (2) Of X-shaped fracture.—The dilficulty in treatment is here much increased, and, in fact, it is so great that it is almost hopeless to attempt to obtain a useful moveable joint by treating the fracture merely by splinting and massage; the only probability of getting a really good result is by operative interference. This consists in cutting down upon the fracture and securing the broken ends in proper position. Before proceeding to operate, the fullest information possible regarding the size, shape, and position of the fragments should be obtained by means of a series of skiagrams. The parts are best reached by free lateral incisions, one over each condyle, but care must be taken not to detach the tissues too freely from either condyle, as otherwise the nutrition of the fragments might be interfered with ; when one or both fragments are small it will be better to cut down in the middle line behind, split the triceps, peel it off to a slight extent from the olecranon without cutting it across, and so to gain access to the fracture without unduly denuding the condyles. The skin is purified in the ordinary manner, but after the joint is opened it is well to use a weak sublimate solution (1-8000) for the further steps of the operation, .so as to avoid irritation of the joint surfaces. Any small loose fragments are removed, and all blood-clot sponged or irrigated out of the articular cavity. The two fractured condyles are then pegged together. In order to do this, it is best, when a median vertical incision is employed, to make a smaller lateral incision over one condyle in