14 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. Croft's Splint.—With some slight modification this method may be employed for moulded removable splints in almost any case of fracture. There are two ways of making this apparatus; in one the splints are lateral, in the other' they are antero-posterior. The usual form of Croffs splitit, as employed for fractures of the lower extremities, is made as follows. A pattern for the lateral portions of the splint is first cut out from a piece of thoroughly shrunk house-flannel. The shaping of this pattern is of considerable importance in the proper application of the splint; the simpler but less accurate method is to take a stocking which fits the patient's sound limb, and lay it flat, with the foot at right angles, upon the house-flannel from which the pattern is then cut, making due allowance for any swelling that there may be in the region of the fracture. Another and more accurate way is that depicted in the diagram (see Fig. 3). In the first place, a series of measurements Fio. 3.—Croft's Splint. Metlwd of cutting out the lateral portions. The pieces of white paper in the lower figure are equal to half the circumference of the limb in the upper at the corresponding marks, with the exception of the right hand one which is equal to the distance from the point of the heel to the mark at the root of the toes. of the injured limb are taken in the following manner. The distance between the upper limit of the splint and the sole of the foot is first ascertained ; then a series of marks are made with ink or an aniline pencil upon the skin at certain measured distances down the limb. The points usually chosen are opposite the extreme upper limit of the splint, over the front of the knee joint, opposite the centre of the calf, and just above the ankle; all the marks are made in the middle line in front. The circum- ference of the limb at each of these points is then ascertained, and a series of strips of bandage or plain white paper corresponding in length to half these diameters is prepared. A piece of house-flannel, eighteen inches wide, and the length of the intended splint, is then laid upon the table, and the strips of paper or bandage are laid upon the flannel in due order, as ascertained by measurement with a tape, commencing at its upper