252 AMPUTATIONS. In cases of tumour of the metacarpal bone the operation is of course rendered more difficult by the presence of the growth, and it is well especially in cases of sarcoma, to take .the neighbouring metacarpal on one or both sides so as to avoid a risk of leaving disease behind. This method of procedure is better, even in cases of tumour, than amputation of the hand. When more than one metacarpal bone is removed, however, it is well to take away at least one finger in order to preserve the full use of the hand. Unless this be done the fingers are apt to be crowded together as the wound contracts, and considerable interference with their usefulness may ensue. The results of the operation are fairly satisfactory. This operation is one of the many new procedures which has resulted from the introduction of antiseptics; if it be done with full antiseptic precautions the patient runs no risk from the opening of the carpo-metacarpal articulation. Without them the operation would of course be quite unjustifiable on account of the almost certain occurrence of suppuration in the wrist joint and all its attendant evils. PARTIAL AMPUTATIONS OF THE HAND.—Besides the opera- tion just described there are many partial amputations which may be -performed on the hand, for which it is almost impossible to give directions, as they may be varied widely to meet the circumstances of the different cases. The essential points to bear in mind are that even the smallest portion of a hand is of the greatest value to the patient, and its place can never be properly taken by any sort of artificial substitute; consequently no considerations such as opening joints, or tendon sheaths, or partial removals of bone should be allowed to stand in the way of operations of this kind, provided always that strict asepsis can be maintained, and provided that the case be not one of suppuration. The majority or the whole of the fingers may be removed, large portions of the metacarpal bones, and even of the carpus may be taken away, but, so long as the smallest portion of the bony structures of the hand or wrist can be left behind, this should be done. Of course the flaps to cover the bone remaining must be fashioned according to the circumstances of the case; wherever possible they should be taken mainly from the palmar aspect, as those structures are more vascular than those on the dorsum, and are therefore less likely to slough. Moreover the long flexor tendons can then be retained in the flap, and will help to increase the usefulness of the wrist very considerably. It should always be remembered that the flexor tendons in these partial amputations should be seized when the flap is raised, cut as long as possible and stitched to the end of the stump in order to retain the power of flexion; if this be omitted, the object of the operation will be largely defeated, as the tendons will retract up their sheath and movement may be almost entirely lost, even though a considerable portion of the bony structures of the hand be left. The same remark applies in a lesser degree to the extensor tendons