FRACTURES: GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. which has the advantage of being strong, light, cheap and easily obtainable; it has however the disadvantage that the splint cannot be made to fit the limb closely, and therefore, in many cases, its place is with advantage taken by materials which may be made to more or less encircle the limb. To a certain extent this may be done by a wooden splint if the form known as GoocKs splint be employed. This consists of a thin lath of deal, to the under surface of which is glued a piece of American cloth or canvas. When this has thoroughly dried, the upper surface of the deal is scored by a series of longi- tudinal cuts about three-quarters of an inch apart reaching down to the canvas on the under surface (see Fig. i); this splint is particularly useful when, as in fractures of the upper arm or thigh, it is required to surround the limb more or less completely. B Fk;. I.—Gooch's Splinting. A. The roll of splinting before it is cut. The scored surface is uppermost in the figure, the one covered with American cloth being undermost. B. The splint cut ready for application to the right lower limb. An aperature c has been cut for the heel, while the upper end of the splint ab has been cut obliquely from the inner side a upwards and outwards to b. The dotted lines indicated upon the splint show the manner in which it is sometimes still further cut away when it is desired to leave the knee exposed. Block tin is an extremely useful article for splints. It is especially good after operations and in compound fractures, as it can be cut to any pattern with plaster of Paris shears, bent round the limb easily, and so moulded as to fit it closely. For operation cases it has the advantage that it can be readily sterilised by boiling and, owing to the facility with which it is moulded, it can be incorporated in the substance of dressings. A specially valuable material for this latter purpose is the ordinary ivire netting used for fences. This can be got of suitable stoutne.s.s, sterilised and moulded to fit the limb; it has the great advantage that, if incorporated with the dressing, it does not interfere with the proper absorption of the discharges (see Fig. 2). Other materials from which moulded splints are conveniently made are guttapercha, poroplastic material, and leather. Splints made of these materials