I50 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. will generally suffice, and about three to four pounds will be sufficient. Should there be any tendency to outward rotation of the leg, a' back splint may be put as high as the knee to steady the leg, and extension made from that. Evaporating lotions (see Part I., p. 8) will be required for the first ten days to subdue the effusion in and around the joint. After the lapse of a fortnight, massage and passive movement should be begun, and in about three weeks a Croffs splint may be applied, while the massage and passive movement are continued once or twice daily. The fracture is of course followed by marked effusion into the joint; this at first consists of blood and afterwards of synovial fluid, and hence massage and passive movement are absolutely necessary if a movable joint is to be obtained. When the spine of the tibia is broken off, the diagnosis is extremely difficult, and is usually only made after the joint has been opened on account of symptoms resembling a loose body in the joint, or of a so-called internal derangement. The detached spine of the tibia should either be pegged into place or, if the fractured portion be only small, it should be removed entirely. Skiagraphy should always be employed when there is any suspicion that the case is one of this nature. In transverse fracture just below the tubercle, or separation of the epiphysis, all that is necessary, after having manipulated the fractured ends into position under an anaesthetic, is to apply a Croffs splint (see p. 14), which, after being opened on the following day, can be afterwards transformed into an immovable casing. The position of the knee does not much matter ; the splint extends from about half way up the thigh down to the ankle. When the fracture is oblique there is a tendency for the upper fragment to be pulled forwards; this is readily overcome by placing the limb in the fully extended position and then applying a Croft's splint from the foot to the middle of the thigh. FRACTURES OF THE SHAFT OF THE TIBIA.-These are much more common than fractures of the upper end of the bone, and usually occur in the lower third. The cause is generally direct violence, such as a run-over injury, but it may also result from indirect violence. When due to direct violence, the fracture is often comminuted and not infrequently compound, but is generally transverse in direction ; when it is due to indirect violence there is often considerable obliquity of the line of fracture from below upwards and backwards. In a fracture from direct violence there is only slight displacement, unless the fracture be com- minuted ; the upper fragment is tilted somewhat forwards while the lower is carried backwards by the weight of the foot. There is usually a good deal of bruising of the skin, which is very apt to slough if the pressure of the apparatus be at all severe; this point must be carefully attended to in putting up the fracture. Simple fracture.—AVhen the lower fragment is brought into line with