2 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. transverse or comminuted, and the injury is usually not confined to the bone alone; the soft parts in the neighbourhood may be considerably damaged. Fractures from indirect violence may occur in several ways ; it is very common for the ends of the bone to be compressed between two opposing forces, and for fracture to take place at some intermediate point. Here the fracture is essentially due to a bending of the bone which is carried beyond its limit of elasticity; in the long bones the resulting fracture usually occurs at the weakest part of the bone, namely, at the junction of the expanded articular end with the comparatively narrow shaft. In other cases, fractures from indirect violence may be brought about by muscular action alone; this is generally due to unduly forcible or irregular muscular contraction, or to muscular contraction of normal strength in those who suffer from some pathological condition of the bones. As an example of fracture resulting from irregular and forcible contraction may be mentioned fracture of the patella from violent contraction of the quadriceps extensor when the knee is bent, while fracture of the neck of the femur in old and debilitated persons may be quoted as an example of fracture from the latter cause. Predisposing" causes.—There are numerous pathological conditions which produce a liability to fracture, and so act as predisposing causes. It will suffice to enumerate the most important. Amongst these are the senile changes which occur in the structure of the bones, fragilitas ossium, moUities ossium, scurvy rickets, insanity, locomotor ataxia, atrophy of bone, new growths in bones, and various inflammatory conditions, such as those which lead to extensive necrosis or rarefying osteitis. It is always important to bear in mind the predisposing causes in the treatment of a case of fracture; when a fracture has been produced by comparatively slight violence, one of these causes should be carefully searched for, and, if found, appropriately treated. CLASSIFICATION.—Fractures are variously classified; for our pur- poses they may be divided into three great classes : Simple, Compound, and CompHcated. A Simple fracture is one which does not communicate with the ex- terior and which is uncomplicated by injury to important structures in its neighbourhood. This form of fracture is not liable to septic complications, and, with few exceptions, heals with very little trouble. A Compound fracture is one which communicates with the exterior through one of the cutaneous or mucous surfaces. These fractures may be compound from the first; communication with the exterior may occur simultaneously with the fracture, either as a result of the soft parts being divided down to the bone, or from the broken ends of the bone tearing through the tissues and projecting through the skin or mucous membrane. On the other hand, a fracture may be simple at first, and may afterwards become compound, either from the bone working its way through the