FRACTURES : GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 27 In a considerable number of cases, moreover, notwithstanding the greatest care and ingenuity in fixing the fragments, true bony union may fail, or if it occurs there may be so much shortening and deformity as to seriously interfere with the usefulness of the limb. Formerly the danger of com- pound fractures was so great that both surgeon and patient contented themselves with the best results they could obtain without operation, but since the introduction of antiseptic surgery our views on the matter have undergone considerable expansion, and most surgeons at the present time do not consider it justifiable to leave the patient with an ununited or badly united fracture, if, by means of an operation, the fragments can be brought into and kept in proper position. Hence, in a large and increasing number of fractures, operative interference is being employed to obtain the best possible result. This is more especially the case in fractures accompanied by wide separation of the fragments, .as, for example, those of the patella or the olecranon, and those in which the line of fracture is very oblique and the fragments over-ride considerably and are accom- panied by so much deformity that a really good result cannot otherwise be obtained. Operative measures are also particularly necessary in fractures about joints—notably the elbow—where the displacement of the fragments interferes with movement, and where satisfactory re-position and retention of the fragments by manipulation and the application of splints cannot be obtained. When operative interference is called for, it should be undertaken imme- diately after the accident; if it be delayed in the hope that a fairly good result may be obtained by non-operative measures, the most favourable time will have passed and it will be found a matter of great difficulty to rectify the displacement. Where the fragments are separated, as in old fractures of the patella, the muscles become shortened, and it is extremely difficult to get the fragments together again unless the muscle be partially divided; at the same time the fragments become so thinned and atrophied that they do not offer at all a good hold for the wires. If operation be delayed in oblique fractures with much overlapping or displacement, it will be necessary to saw through the union, and there will be great trouble in bringing the fragments into position, whilst it will be most difficult to exert enough traction upon the limb to overcome the shortening. And lastly, if opera- tion be delayed in fractures into joints—for example, the elbow—it will be almost impossible to obtain a good result without chipping away portions of the articular surfaces or even excising the joint. All these difficulties can be avoided if operative interference be carried out soon after the fracture has occurred and before any consolidation has taken place—in fact, as soon as the surgeon sees that he cannot obtain a good result in any other way. While in most cases—as, for example, where there is separation of the fragments—there need be no hesitation in operating at once, the surgeon may in others—as in oblique fractures—-be tempted to wait. In the