Il8 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. The splint is put on the sound side so that it shall not interfere with extension of the fractured limb; undue pressure over the damaged tro- chanter is also thereby avoided. When the patient is not restless, the same result may be obtained by simply using a broad sheet over the thorax kept in position by heavy sandbags rolled up into the edge of the sheet at either side. After-treatment.—The patient should be kept absolutely at rest in the horizontal position for at least six weeks. The fracture should then be examined, and if a fair amount of union has occurred the best plan is to apply a Thomas's hip splint, which may be fastened on with plaster of Paris bandages; the patient may then be allowed to get up and go about on crutches. The Thomas's splint should be worn for another six weeks, when the fracture will in all probability be quite firm. After these fractures have united there is often considerable difficulty in obtaining free movement of the hip joint. This is due either to adhesions in the capsule or to masses of bone or callus thrown out around the fracture as a result of the damage to the trochanter. The adhesions in the joint may be overcome by massage and active and passive movements, but if the movement be interfered with by bony outgrowths, it may be necessary to cut down over the trochanter and chisel away any portions of bone that interfere with the free mobility of the joint. Pegging.—In some cases of extra-capsular fracture it may be advisable to peg the fragments together in the manner described in dealing with intra- capsular fracture. We have not ourselves carried _ out this method of treatment, but when there is difficulty in keeping the patient quiet, when the fragments cannot be properly kept in position, or when the skin is so tender that it will not bear efficient weight-extension, the operation would undoubtedly be called for, and a couple of pegs driven in through the trochanter would in all probability fix the fragments in excellent position and ensure good union. Certainly the method is one which it is well to bear in mind; the steps of the operation would be those already described for intra-capsular fracture (see p. 115)- Of impacted fracture.—When the fracture is impacted it is not advisable to break up the impaction unless there be great deformity. All that is necessary is to keep the limb at rest until bony union occurs; this generally takes place rapidly. Breaking up the impaction is a matter of difficulty, and it does not necessarily follow that there would be less deformity than if the case had been left alone, while it might result in mere fibrous union. In impacted fractures it is unnecessary to employ extension; the impaction is generally very firm, the neck of the femur being wedged into the great trochanter, and the parts can be efficiently immobilised by a long Liston's splint applied in the manner already described, without a perineal band. The patient should be kept at rest for six or eight weeks, and for three or four weeks afterwards should not be allowed to bear weight upon the limb. It is in jthese cases 'of