THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 76 The splints should be kept on for about four or five weeks because of the liability to non-union already mentioned, but they should be removed daily after the first fortnight, so as to carry out passive movements of the elbow and shoulder joints, during which the fracture should be carefully steadied with one hand. If the fracture be oblique, there is a great tendency for the fragments to over-ride, and it is well to have a skiagram taken (which can be done without removing the splints) after two or three days, so as to see whether the ends of the bones are in proper position. If there be any serious over-riding, the fracture should be cut down upon and the bones fastened together. The spot chosen for the incision will depend very much upon the position of the fracture and the direction of the obliquity. The best plan, wherever possible, is to expose, not the line of fracture, but the face of one of the fragments, as it is thus much easier to intro- duce pegs or screws. The incision will generally be a vertical one; if preferred, a flap may be raised on the outer side of the arm. After the soft parts have been divided, the triceps is separated from the brachialis anticus and the deltoid by the finger, and the fractured ends are exposed. In doing this, care must be taken to avoid damage to the musculo-spiral nerve when the fracture is low down. When the fractured ends have been got into proper position, they may be pegged or screwed as may be necessary. After the wound has been sewn up and the usual dressings applied, the method of fixing the limb will be the same as that employed for cases of simple fracture. Injury to the musculo-spiral nerve.—When there is evidence of injury to the musculo-spiral nerve at the time of the accident, and when no sign of recovery is apparent in the course of a few days, the fracture should be exposed and the condition of the nerve ascertained. If the latter be torn across, the divided ends should be brought together and sutured (see Part II., p. 251) ; if it be merely bruised and the sheath distended with blood, the latter should be evacuated by a vertical slit in the sheath. The after- treatment will be that for contusion of nerves (see Part II., p. 248). When the fracture has to be exposed for this purpose, the surgeon will naturally take the opportunity of fastening the fragments together. When the nerve becomes involved in the callus at a later period, it will also be necessary to cut down upon it without delay, as otherwise extensive and permanent degeneration may occur. The incision should be a vertical one on the outer side of the arm (for the steps of the operation see Part II., p. 273); the nerve is exposed, traced to the seat of fracture and its relation to this ascertained. Any mass of callus surrounding the nerve should be carefully chipped away, the greatest care being taken to avoid damaging the latter in the process. If the nerve be simply stretched over a mass of callus, enough should be chiselled away to remove all chance of pressure.