219 ACTINOMYCOSIS. ACTINOMYCOSIS. This disease is due to a fungus called the actinomyces, which is com- mon in cattle. It may affect either the soft tissues or the bones, and it has three main seats—the mouth and its neighbourhood, especially the bones, the respiratory, and the abdominal organs. We need here only refer very shortly to the disease as it affects the bones. Of these the lower jaw is the one most commonly attacked, and the affection begins as a hard tumour, generally about the angle of the jaw. This tumour increases slowly in size until suppuration occurs, and an abscess forms and bursts, either into the mouth or externally. The disease goes on spreading, and destroying the bone which becomes worm-eaten and exca- vated, and the pus which escapes contains yellow granules. If a few drops of pus be received in a watch-glass, spread out and held up to the light, these yellow grains can usually be seen very distinctly ; if put under the microscope, they are found to be composed of clumps of actinomyces. The disease, when once established in the bone, may lead to metastatic deposits elsewhere, sometimes in the glands, sometimes in other bones. There is usually no fever accompanying the affection, which varies very much in its virulence, sometimes being quite mild, and in other cases being almost beyond the reach of treatment. Treatment.—As soon as the disease is evident, the affected bone should be cut down upon; if only a small portion be affected, the diseased area should be completely excised; if it be too extensive for this, the swelling must be thoroughly opened and scraped away until as far as one can judge the whole disease has been removed. Very satisfactory results are obtained in this way; the disease is at first quite local, and does not recur if only the operation be done thoroughly enough. Iodide of potassium in large doses (gr. xxv.-xxxv.) three times a day is also useful. TUMOURS OF BONE. Many tumours occur in bones, developing either as primary growths, as secondary deposits in connection with tumours in distant parts, or from extension of tumours commencing in the soft parts in the neighbourhood. The primary tumours of bone are chiefly exostoses, chondromata and various forms of sarcomata. Secondary tumours are sarcomata or carcino- mata, arising either by metastasis or by extension from neighbouring parts. Hydatid cysts also occur. TREATMENT.—Of primary tumours.—The treatment of tumours of bone has already been referred to under the treatment of tumours in general (see Part. I., Chapter XV.). Of Exostosis.—The exostoses occur in two forms, the ivory sessile variety found .chiefly on the skull, and the spongy pedunculated form in