NECROSIS. on the splint. This dressing may be changed again on the following day or it may be left for two or three days, according to the amount of discharge and the general symptoms. In three or four days it will be evident whether or not sepsis has been eradicated. In the latter case a little pus will begin to form, and the stuffing can then readily be removed, at any rate from the greater part of the cavity, because it will have become separated from the tissues by a layer of pus. If, on the other hand, the woufid be aseptic, there will be no sign of suppuration, and it will be a matter of considerable difficulty to remove all the stuffing. About this time, viz., about the fourth or the fifth day, the treatment of the cavity must be decided upon. The process of healing from the bottom in deep-seated bones takes a very long time—often many months—and sometimes it does not occur at all. The dense bone surrounding the cavity has to form granulations, which have to grow up and fill the whole cavity before the healing process is complete; and in the meantime healing goes on rapidly in the soft tissues over the orifice. The result is that the external opening steadily diminishes in size and is very likely ultimately to become too small for the escape of the discharge from the deeper parts; besides this, the skin becomes drawn in on each side of the opening, so that there is a deep sulcus, at the bottom of which are sinuses leading into the cavity in the bone. In fact, in some cases sinuses remain for a very long time, and indeed may never close. Methods of obtaining obliteration of the cavity in the bone.—Hence the general opinion now is that it is inadvisable to let these wounds heal from the bottom by the growth of granulation tissue, except in the case of superficial bones, such as the tibia; steps should be taken to obtain a more rapid filling up of the cavity and to obviate this drawing-in of the skin. Exactly what should be done will depend very much on whether or not sepsis has been completely eradicated; should the case be aseptic, one of the following procedures should be adopted about the fourth or fifth day. (a) In an aseptic wound.—^(i) The skin' may be loosened at the edges and stitched together over the cavity, which then fills with blood-clot, in which organisation takes place later. With this plan the difficulty is that if there be much clot—in other words, if the cavity be large—organisation is apt to be imperfect, and portions of the clot may break down before it has occurred. Hence, this method is not usually satisfactory. (2) In order to entangle the blood, and to form a network in which it can lie, it has been proposed to fill up the cavity with threads of catgut : these threads give greater solidity to the blood-clot, and thus aid organisation. (3) Instead of catgut it has been proposed to fill up the cavity with pieces of sponge, kept in a disinfectant solution before being introduced. (4) A more useful material than either of these for the same purpose is decalcified bone. The bone is cut up into small pieces, decalcified in a