i8 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. Precautions.—There are several small precautions necessary in order to put on this splint successfully. The plaster should be perfectly dry and of good quality and it is well to spread it out before a fire previous to use. In cutting out the splint, allowance should be made for the slight shrinking of the flannel that occurs when it is impregnated with the plaster. The best plan is to*make the lateral pieces large enough to meet in the middle line front and back. When they are impregnated with the plaster of Paris they will shrink sufficiently to leave a slight gap down the middle line in front while they are in contact behind. Care should also be taken in applying the splint to see that the lateral halves do not overlap behind and that they hang evenly without creases along the side of the limb, so that when the bandage is applied they are moulded smoothly to its surface. The bed- clothes and carpets or floor of the room should be protected from the plaster by means of mackintoshes, sheets or newspaper, and the surgeon should wear a large apron to protect his own clothes. He will find it well to oil his hands before mixing the plaster, as this facilitates its removal subsequently; this is still further aided by the use of common brown sugar rubbed well over the hands as they are washed. Advantages.—This method is a very valuable one, and in many cases has great advantages over any other plan. It is perfectly simple, the materials are readily obtainable, the splint can be applied with extreme rapidity, and, as it takes its purchase from the bony prominences of the limb, to which it fits perfectly, the fracture is absolutely immobilised and there is no undue pressure anywhere. It has, moreover, the merit of being extremely comfortable, and during the drying of the plaster not only is the sense of cold produced very agreeable to the patient, but the slight contraction that takes place tends to restrain the eff'usion. It is pre-eminently suited for fractures of the leg; in the thigh it is not so much to be recommended as, owing to the difficulty of getting proper purchase upon the bony prominences of the trunk, the same amount of immobility is not produced. It may be used for many compound fractures as well as simple ones, as it is quite easy to apply and re-apply dressings beneath it, the limb being held firmly by an assistant in one half of the splint whilst the other is turned back and the dressing changed. In those cases of compound fracture however where, owing to the amount of discharge, large quantities of dressing are necessary, it is perhaps better to employ some other method (see p. 34). Objections.—An objection sometimes urged against Croft's splint, is that if there be much swelling when it is. first applied, the casing may become too large for the Umb when the swelling subsides. This can be easily met in any case in which the swelling is pronounced by allowing a larger interval than usual in the middle line in front between the opposite edges of the splints ; then, when the swelling subsides, all that is neces- sary is to bandage the splints more closely together. A danger that is sometimes urged against this method, namely, that there is a risk of gangrene