47 FRACTURES : GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. definite rules upon the point. Usually the employment of an antesthetic and forcible bending of the bone are necessary if more than a month has elapsed since the fracture; before that, elastic pressure will probably suffice to reduce the deformity. When complete consolidation has occurred with angular deformity, the bone must be re-fractured before it can be got into proper position ; this may be done with or without a cutting operation. In adults, when the fracture is situated about the centre of the shaft of the bone, it is some- times possible, by means of a sufficiently powerful arrangement (such as that known as Butcher's osteoclast), to re-fracture the bone, but this method is uncertain. It is apt to cause serious bruising of the soft parts, the fracture it produces may be comminuted, and in children, especially if the fracture be near the articular end of the bone, the epiphysis may separate before the union gives way. It may be laid down as a good general rule that, whenever the union is strong enough to resist re-fracture by means of the hands alone, the fracture should be cut down upon and the union divided either by a chisel or a saw, preferably the former. In an oblique fracture with one end overlapping the other an operation of this kind is absolutely essential. Definite rules for operations of this nature cannot be formulated, because everything depends upon the nature of the deformity and the bone affected, but the following points should be borne in mind. (1) Every operation must be done with strict antiseptic precautions, as otherwise most disastrous results may follow. (2) The division of the bone should be effected with as little disturb- ance of the parts as possible ; it can usually be best effected by means of a chisel and hammer. If done in this way, the bone need not, except in oblique fractures, where pegging is necessary, be lifted out of its bed. (3) In oblique fractures it is generally necessary to divide all the soft tissues connected with the bone in the neighbourhood of the fracture. The great difficulty in these cases is the shrinking of the soft parts, and, after the fracture has been divided, it will be necessary to exert as much extension as possible, either by the help of an assistant or by means of pulleys, and then to cautiously divide all tight bands which interfere with the proper reduction of the fracture, taking care of course not to divide important structures, such as large vessels or nerves. (4) In all cases, whether the fracture was originally oblique or not, it is advi.sable to divide the bone obliquely, so as to have a larger surface for union and less chance of displacement. (5) In all oblique fractures, and in any case where there may be difficulty in keeping the bone ends in proper apposition, pegs, screws, or wires should be employed to fix them. (6) Very free incisions should always be made, so that the surgeon is enabled to see exactly what he is doing, and is not hampered by want of room.