43 FRACTURES: GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. from which detachment of the clot may result. The patient should be confined to bed or to a couch for a full fortnight after the spread of the thrombus has ceased. (3) Gangrene.—This complication may arise as a result of the damage done to the main vessels at the time of the injury, or it may occur later from the injudicious application of splints or bandages. Some patients are particularly insensitive to pain, and if they have any, merely look upon it as a necessary consequence of the injury, and cases have occurred where fractures of the upper arm have been put up without any apparent tightness, and where subsequently oedema and gangrene of the hand have occurred without the patient complaining, until too late to obviate the mischief. Treatment.—If this complication should occur from either of these causes the gangrene will be of the moist variety; its treatment is detailed elsewhere (see Part I., Chap. IV.). When the circulation is evidently imperfect, the limb should be disinfected immediately after the occurrence of the injury, and a gauze dressing applied; outside this a mass of salicylic wool is put on, and the limb raised on suitable pillows. If it be evident, after doing this, that gangrene will occur, amputation should be performed. There is no object in waiting, for it is obvious where the injury to the vessels has occurred, and in the course of two or three days at most it will be quite clear whether recovery will result. If amputation be necessary it should be performed at or about the seat of injury to the vessels, which will be at the seat of fracture. (4) Septic complications.—These are of course much more likely to follow a compound than a simple fracture, but they may occur in simple fractures complicated by injuries of the skin, even when the latter are mere abrasions. When they do occur, even though they be mild in type, they naturally complicate the case to a marked degree, because the dressings must be repeatedly changed, and a considerable disturbance of the limb must result. Hence in all cases of fracture it is of great im- portance to examine the skin carefully for the presence of abrasions ; if any be found, the wound in the skin should be thoroughly disinfected, an antiseptic dressing applied, and the limb afterwards put up in a proper retentive apparatus. Treatment.—The treatment of these complications has already been dealt with elsewhere (see Part I.). (5) (Edema of the lungs and hypostatic pneumonia. - Con- gestion of the bases of the lungs ending in a low form of pneumonia is a very troublesome and dangerous complication, especially in old people who are the subjects of a fracture of the lower extremity which confines them to bed in the horizontal position. Apart from this, pneumonia may also be caused by direct injury to the lung in cases of fractured ribs, but this form is usually only slight, limited and transient, and a fatal result seldom occurs from it except when the chest wall has been so extensively injured that respiration cannot be properly carried on. Pneumonia may