FRACTURES OF BOTH BONES OF THE LEG. 167 ment, inclusion of portions of muscles, or, not uncommonly, a loose piece of bone, between the fractured ends, or apparently some constitutional defect. In every case, the ununited fracture will have to be treated by operation, and the best plan is to cut down on the fracture. The other methods of treating ununited fracture which have been mentioned (see p. 49) are very unsatisfactory compared with free exposure; there is no call to employ the other methods in this situation, because the bone is quite superficial, and no important structures need be divided. The operation is in all respects similar to that described for ununited fracture of the tibia alone (seep. 154); a portion of the fibula should be removed if the ends of the tibia will not otherwise come together. For this purpose an incision must be made over the outer side of the leg on the same level as the defect in the tibia, the fibula exposed and sufficient removed to ensure that, when the ends of the tibia are brought together, the ends of the fibula will just meet also. Any obliquity of the fractured surfaces should be main- tained and if necessary increased, because it is much easier to fix the ends when the surface is oblique than when it is transverse. If the fracture be oblique, pegs or screws should be used to fix the parts together and the fibula need not be divided, for, as the two ends lie together, they will unite without any trouble. In tran.sverse fractures, screwing or pegging cannot be employed; the best plan is to pass a wire right through the whole substance of the bone below the fracture, and bring it out again through the whole thickness of the bone above the fracture (see Fig. 64). FRACTURES OK THE BONES OF THE FOOT. These injuries are not common and may be dismissed in a very few words. FRACTURE OF THE ASTRAGALUS.—Fracture of this bone alone is an injury of extreme rarity; we ourselves have never come across a ca.se. The fracture results from falls from a height upon the foot; the bone may then fracture instead of becoming dislocated. Usually the anterior part is displaced forwards, the fracture being frequently through the neck of the bone. Treatment.—The treatment must be a difficult matter and will depend essentially on the condition of the astragalus; in any case it would probably be advisable to cut down and find out the condition of the bone, and in the majority of instances it would seem desirable to completely excise FiG. 64. — Method OF Wiring a Trans- verse Fracture of THE 'I'lBiA. For the sake of clearness the fragments have not heen approximated. In the figure the line of fracture is somewhat oblique; it should be transverse.