THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 98 TREATMENT.—The following are the chief points requiring attention in the treatment of these fractures. i. The fracture is commonly impacted and its reduction requires considerable force; it is most essential that reduction should be complete. Care must also be taken to see that the wrist joint moves freely and that the movements of pronation and supination are restored. 2. There is always a great tendency to subsequent stiffness of the wrist and fingers because of the close connection of the tendon sheaths with the lower end of the radius in the neighbourhood of the fracture. Teno-synovitis is a more or less constant result, and is frequently followed by adhesion of the tendons to their sheaths. The tendons in front of the wrist are most liable to be thus affected, and the greatest care must be taken to avoid it. 3. Adhesions will generally occur in the synovial mem- branes of the wri.st. Reduction.—This is the first point of importance; reduction -often calls for the exercise of considerable force and it is therefore advisable to place the patient under an anaesthetic, when it is easy to reduce the fracture by simple extension. If no anaesthetic be given, reduction may be effected by grasping the limb and placing it palm downwards across the front of the knee with the styloid process of the ulna in contact with the patella, and then, by partly flexing and partly adducting the hand, the impaction may be broken up. Care must be taken to see that the displace- ment of the articular surface is completely overcome; the best guide to this is to make sure that the styloid processes of the radius on the two sides occupy the same relative level. After the fracture has been reduced, the fragments can readily be kept in place by grasping the lower end of the bone between the thumb and fingers ; the thumb is placed on the back of the wrist and presses forward the lower fractured end, whilst the fingers press backwards the lower end of the upper fragment. Splints.—The simplest and best that can be employed are anterior and posterior splints about the width of the fore-arm. There is here no fear of pressing the ends of the bone together, as in the last form of fracture described, and better fixation is obtained with splints the same breadth as the fore-arm. They should extend along the front and back of the fore-arm from the elbow to the metacarpo-phalangeal joints, that is to say, to the knuckles behind, and almost to the transverse crease of the palm in front. They should be cut to the shape of the arm (see p. 95), and the anterior splint should be hollowed out or cut away opposite the thenar eminence, so that the thumb can hang down in a position of more or less opposition. A pad of boracic lint should be placed over the posterior surface of the lower fragment, and a somewhat longer narrow pad should be placed along the front of the upper fragment reaching down to its lower end; the splints are then fixed on firmly. The fingers should be left out, and the patient should be encouraged to move them himself from the day following the accident; the surgeon should also move them freely every day, so as to avoid the risk of immediate adhesion of the tendons to their sheaths.