FRACTURES : GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 7 the seat of fracture, and either remove the loose fragments or fix them properly in position according to their size or situation. If an attempt be made to get union with a loose fragment in bad position, the result will be that either non-union will occur, or the consolidation of the fracture will be accompanied by deformity and functional impairment of the limb; this will probably require for its rectification an operation at a later date and under much less favourable conditions. The treatment of individual cases of this kind will be referred to later, when we describe the special fractures. 4. Portions of muscle, tendon, or fascia may be interposed between the fragments, and, if allowed to remain, will cause union either to fail entirely, or to be very imperfect and accompanied by considerable deformity. Here again, if after thorough manipulation under an aneesthetic it be found that the interposed structures cannot be satisfactorily pushed aside, it is best to cut down upon the fracture, disentangle the ends of the bones, and then to bring them into proper apposition and secure them there. Time for effecting reduction.—The reduction and coaptation of fractures should always be effected as soon as possible after the accident has happened, before any marked effusion has occurred; the surgeon is then able to ascertain satisfactorily whether he has brought the ends of the bones into accurate apposition. Moreover, as the effusion to a great extent is due to the hsemorrhage resulting from laceration of the tissues by the broken ends of the bone, the sooner these are immo- bilised the less effusion will there be. Lastly, it is easier to perform reduction immediately after the occurrence of the fracture, and there is less necessity to employ an anaesthetic then than if some time be allowed to elapse, because in the early period the patient is suffering from a certain amount of shock; the muscles are considerably relaxed, and hence there is less rigidity and less difficulty in bringing the ends of the bone into apposition, while at the same time the patient does not appreciate the pain as much as he does after the shock has passed off. Many authors describe cases in which immediate reduction is not to be attempted, and where some time should be allowed to elapse before the fracture is reduced ; they are those in which there is great swelling about the fracture, or exces- sive spasm (as in those suffering from incipient delirium tremens). The same line of treatment is recommended when a considerable interval has elapsed since the occurrence of the fracture. But in all these cases we have no doubt that there would be less trouble in reducing the fracture, less pain caused to the patient, and less likelihood of the occurrence of local troubles if the broken ends were brought into position at once. Fresh swelling will not then occur, because the ends of the bones are at rest; spasm can • be readily overcome by an anaesthetic, and the limb can be so put up that the fracture cannot be subsequently displaced, even by the most violent movements. The longer the time allowed to elapse between the «