144 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. After-treatment.—It is necessary to keep on this apparatus for six or eight weeks; the plaster must be renewed as often as it slips, and care must be taken to avoid a pressure-sore around the margin of the patella; the best way to prevent this is to insert a pad of boracic lint between the margin of the bone and the edge of the plaster. At the end of about eight weeks, the strapping may be removed, when it is generally found that a certain amount of fibrous union has occurred which will not yield so long as the patient does not involuntarily contract the extensor muscles. The best plan now is to employ massage to the quadriceps in the downward direction so as not to separate the fragments. At the same time it is well to carry out careful movements of the patella designed to prevent adhesions, taking care meanwhile to keep the two fragments in apposition; moreover, a certain amount of passive motion of the knee joint may be effected if care be taken to fix the fragments with one hand. A tightly-fitting knee-cap, to control the fragments and allow the patient to get about, should then be applied, the limb being massaged twice daily and the patient allowed to walk with crutches. After five or six weeks, weight may be borne upon the foot, but the patient should use crutches for a couple of months longer, and then take to two sticks; it will generally be nearly a year before these can be entirely dispensed with. Owing to the great muscular atrophy which is apt to follow prolonged rest in the treatment by splints, and owing also to the great risk of stiffness from adhesions occurring within the articulation or between the upper fragment of the patella and the femur, some surgeons advocate the immediate employment of massage with an idea of promoting the nutri- tion of the muscle and the movement of the joint without regard to the question of firm union; it is held that in this way a considerable pro- portion of the cases will recover with a fairly satisfactory limb, although there may be considerable separation between the fragments. This, although to some extent true, seems to be a somewhat exaggerated view, and while, on the one hand, it is probably a mistake to keep up the limb for six months without paying attention to the condition of the muscles or the joint, it nevertheless seems very unsatisfactory to give up the chance of close union. Hence, of the two plans, we prefer the former, where operation is not possible or permitted. Treatment of long-standing cases.—Cases of ununited fracture of the patella not infrequently come under observation at a late period, because the patient desires to have something done to enable him to again become a useful member of society. The complaint generally is that the separa- tion between the fragments is so excessive that there is no proper control over the limb, that it is weak, and that, while walking upon the level is possible, there is little power when walking up or down hill or up and down stairs. Causes of disability.—This condition may be due either to absence of union between the fragments, to a thin elongated fibrous union, to adhe-