lO THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. and in some cases, such as fractures of the lower end of the humerus, the joints further away—i.e. those of the wrist and fingers—must also be fixed. It is to neglect of this precaution that the occurrence of faulty union or non-union after fractures of the long bones is often to be attributed. ip) All undue pressure upon any bony prominence over which splints are applied must be carefully avoided. Unless this be done there will be much pain, the muscles will be irritated and in a state of spasmodic contraction, and sloughs and sores will be very apt to form. This, besides leading to further difficulty in applying the splints, will also expose the patient to the risks of septic absorption. It is still more important that all pressure over the seat of the fracture should be avoided, as otherwise a simple fracture may be converted into a compound one. Any splint that is used must be carefully and uniformly padded, so as to minimise the pressure exerted by the hard material of which it is made. {c) The splints must not be bandaged on too tightly. Quite apart from the pain, and the tendency to the production of pressure sores over bony promiiiences resulting from too tight bandaging, oedema of the limb below and actual gangrene may ensue from it. Besides this, no bandage should be put on beneath the splint unless it be required to secure a dressing. It is recommended by many authors that, in a fracture of the upper arm, the limb should be bandaged from the fingers upwards to the seat of the fracture before the splints are applied, so as to prevent the occurrence of oedema. We do not ourselves advise this; if it be done, it is impossible to see what is happening when the splints have been applied, and oedema may occur in spite of the bandages, and there may be great constriction and even gangrene of the limb. If a bandage be employed at all, it should not reach higher than the lower end of the splint. ((5?) While the splints are being secured to the limb, care must be taken not to relax the traction upon the fragments, or to alter their direction until the splints have been finally and firmly applied; displacement is otherwise liable to recur. The choice of fixation apparatus is large, and varies according to the part affected; in selecting any particular form of splint, attention should be paid to the following points : (i) The splint should be as light as possible, consistent with the work which it has to perform ; (2) it should be more or less porous, so as to permit of evaporation, otherwise decomposition of the sweat is apt to occur and lead to irritation of the skin beneath; (3) it should take its purchase only from bony points, and should not anywhere press unduly upon the limb ; (4) it should be removable, so as to permit of massage and movements of the muscles and neighbouring joints from time to time. Materials for splints.—^The materials of which fixation apparatus may be made are very numerous. They may be wood, various kinds of metal, wire, guttapercha, pasteboard, felt, plaster of Paris, silicate of soda, etc. The material of which the majority of wooden splints is made is ordinary deal.