i6 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. which should be of the very best quality, and quite free from hard lumps or masses; in mixing it, cold water only should be used, as, if hot water be employed, the plaster is very likely to set before there is time to bandage the splint on. The best method of mixing plaster of Paris is to put a sufficienc)' of cold water into sc basin, ajjd then to dust the plaster into it by hand without attempting to stir it until the plaster ceases to sink in the water. The first plaster dusted in sinks at once, and this will continue until the water has become saturated, when the plaster floats upon the surface ; this may be taken as an indication that enough has been added to the water to enable it to solidify into a firm mass which will not crack and will not set too rapidly. When the saturation point is reached, the plaster should be thoroughly stirred up with the hand, so as to break up any lumps; when mixed it will be of the consistency of thin cream. The outer layer of each of the lateral splints is rapidly immersed in this and thoroughly impregnated with it; as this is done each piece is raised from the plaster in the vertical position, and any excess upon its surface removed by passing the hands down it (see Fig. 4). As each layer is prepared, it is laid down in position upon the unplastered portion which remains on the table. This finishes the preparation of the splints ; the next step is to bandage them on. Each lateral splint (consisting of the inner unplastered and the outer plastered layer) is raised and applied to its respective side of the limb, and, while this is being done, the surgeon sets the fracture and Fig. 5.—Croft's Si-lixt. Baiidniing on the lateral portions. The surgeon holds the fracture in good position and the foot at right angles, an assistant keeps the lateral por- tions in position at their upper end, while a second assistant applies the muslin bandage. holds the limb in position, taking care to see that the foot is at right angles with the leg. As he does this, he grasps the foot-piece of the two lateral splints, whilst an assistant holds them together at the upper part of the thigh ; a second assistant rapidly bandages them in place (see Fig. 5). The bandages used for this purpose are of ordinary book-muslin, about two and a half inches wide and of sufficient length. They are not impreg- nated with plaster at all, but are merely steeped in hot water. They should be applied smoothly, evenly, and without any compression. The plaster shrinks ^lightly as it dries, and therefore if the splints were at all