CHAPTER XVI. « AMPUTATIONS IN THE UPPER EXTREMITY. AMPUTATIONS OF THE FINGERS. General considerations.—The chief point for consideration in amputating the fingers is whether it is advisable to save a phalanx or a portion of a phalarjx, or whether the amputation should be performed at the metacarpo phalangeal joint, and the finger thus entirely removed. As a matter of fact, in most of the fingers,—and particularly in the index and little fingers,—the retention of even a very small portion of a phalanx is of great value, provided always that the flexor and extensor tendons can be made to act upon it. Some surgeons consider it useless to save any portion of the phalanges when the amputation is done above the centre of the middle phalanx^ because the tendons retract and their action upon the remaining portion of the finger is therefore lost. This view has been strengthened by the commonly re- commended practice of stitching up the divided end of the tendon sheath, so as to prevent the passage of pus along it into the palm. There is however no necessity whatever to stitch up the tendon sheath, provided that the operation be done aseptically, and there is no objection to securing the end of the divided tendon either to the orifice of the sheath or to the periosteum in its vicinity, so as to enable it to act Upon the portion of finger remaining. AMPUTATION OF THE TERMINAL PHALANX.—When only the last phalanx is diseased there is no dispute as to the advisability of retaining the rest of the finger, since the insertions of the flexor and extensor tendons are not completely divided in the amputation, and the movement of the inter-phalangeal joint is therefore not interfered with. By a long palmar flap.—The best method of amputating the terminal phalanx is by means of a long anterior flap; this is in fact the only plan by which sufficient skin can be obtained to cover the head of the second ^ The terms above and belmu are used in the upper extremity in a sense synonymous with the adjectives proximal and distal respectively. Thus "above the centre of the middle phalanx" means "on the proximal side of the centre" etc.