214 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. After the age of nine months, vegetables and fruit should be added to the diet, which will still be mainly milk. It may be well here to append the table of instructions issued to mothers at Paddington Green Children's Hospital, which may be made to serve as a model either for private or hospital practice : HOAV TO BRING UP BABIES. FEEDING. I. If the mother is perfectly healthy and has plenty of milk, breas: milk alone should be given until the infant is 8 months old. Suckle every two hours by day and twice by night until the child is 3 months old ; then suckle every three hours by day and once only by night. Too frequent suckling makes the milk poor and does not satisfy the baby. The mother's nipples should be bathed with warm water both before and after suckling. Also wash the inside of the child's mouth with a small piece of clean linen and warm water each time after the breast is taken. This will prevent "Thrush." Begin to wean at 8 months and wean completely at 9 months. Between the 8th and 9th month let the child have three times a day a mixture of two parts of cow's milk and one part of barley water, sweetened with one lump of sugar or one-third of a teaspoonful of Extract of Malt (not Fluid) to each bottle. The cow's milk should be just brought to the boil. The barley water should be made as follows : wash one tablespoonful of pearl barley and put it in a sauce- pan with one pint of cold water. Let it come to the boil and simmer beside the fire for half an hour. Strain and use as required : should be prepared fresh twice daily. n. If the mother has only a little milk, the child should still have it; give also one part of cow's milk and two parts barley water (made and sweetened as above). There is no harm in mixing the milks. It is better to get ordinary dairy milk than milk from one cow. Should diarrhoea or vomiting come on, give equal parts of milk, lime water, and barley water. in. If for any reason the breast cannot be given, feed as follows: Up to months: one part of cow's milk and two parts of barley water— prepared and sweetened as above—every two hours by day and twice by night, in quantities of about six tablespoonfuls at each feed. Beliucen 3 and 6 months: equal parts of cow's milk and barley water may be given—one and a half to two pints a day. One-third of a teaspoonful of butter, or a teaspoonful of cream may be given twice daily. Bet'iveen 6 and 9 months : two parts of cow's milk to one part of barley water. Then add gradually more milk and less barley water until at 9 months the child is taking plain milk, heated as above. On no accotmt give any infant's food, condensed milk, bread, biscuits, or tops and bottoms until the child is 9 months old except by doctor's orders.