197 TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF BONE. its way to the surface, the periosteum in the vicinity is becoming thickened, and new bone is being deposited, so that the bone usually becomes very considerably enlarged.. Tuberculous sequestra.—In the case of tuberculous sequestra the further progress is the same; the disease either makes its way gradually to the joint, or to the free surface of the bone. An abscess may then form outside and burst. When the abscess is opened or bursts spontaneously, a probe passes down into the interior of the bone and comes in contact with a dense tuberculous sequestrum. (3) Tuberculous osteo-myelitis.—Here the medullary tissue is infiltrated with tuberculous material. This especially affects the shorter of the long bones such as the phalanges and metacarpal bones; it may end in the formation either of a soft caseating mass, or of sequestra as well. In the fingers it is known as " strumous dactylitis." At first the disease is con- fined to the interior of the bone ; during this time the periosteum around becomes thickened, and when the bone is a short one, like a phalanx, it assumes a fusiform shape. As the disease progresses, however, the hard shell of the bone is broken through at some point, and then infection of the periosteum occurs; subsequently a chronic abscess forms which, when opened, is found to lead into the interior through a hole in the bone. (4) Tuberculous periostitis.—In this form the tuberculous material is deposited beneath the periosteum; it occurs especially frequently in the ribs and the vertebr3e. The disease spreads partly into the bone and partly into the soft tissues around, and the result is that an abscess very frequently forms; at the same time the surface of the bone becomes eroded and carious, and small sequestra may also be formed. In the ribs actual fracture may occur. CLINICAL STAGES.—Hence, tuberculous deposits in bone may be met with in various clinical stages. In the first place, the tuber- culous deposit may be still confined to the interior of the bone, and no external disease may have as yet occurred. Secondly, the deposit may have reached the surface of the bone and have caused a chronic abscess over it; and thirdly, this chronic abscess may have burst, and septic sinuses leading down to a tuberculous deposit in the bone may be present. In tuberculous osteo-myelitis the condition may also be similar; in some cases the bone is enlarged but still intact; in others there may be abscesses in connection with the enlarged bone, and in a third class there may be sinuses leading down to an aperture of communication with the medulla. In tuberculous periostitis there will be some thickening about the periosteum in the early stages, but in exposed bones, such as the ribs, there may be a chronic abscess in connection with disease of the surface of the bone quite early in the case. In other cases again the abscess may have burst before it comes under notice, and there are then sinuses leading down to carious bone. The results in the cases where the