228 AMPUTATIONS. periosteum should be stripped off the bone together or the vitahty of the latter will be endangered. Retractors.—In the circular method the retraction of the muscles is often difficult, especially in a conical limb like the thigh, and there is some danger of wounding the assistant's fingers unless mechanical means of retracting the muscles be employed. A very simple form of retractor which can easily be extemporized is made from a broad piece of bandage or muslin which has been carefully disinfected. I'his is split longitudinally down the centre for about half its length (see Fig. 68, A), and then the two tails thus formed are applied one on either- side of the bone, and an assistant, seizing the two tails with one hand and the undivided end with the other, firmly retracts the soft parts (see Fig. 68, C). A similar retractor can be made by taking two pieces of ordinary bandage and laying one on either side of the bone, crossing the ends and making traction upon them. When amputation is being performed in a lirnb with two parallel bones, such as the fore-arm, the retractor may conveniently take the form shown in Fig. 68, where a piece of muslin is split into three tails, the centre one being passed between the two bones, and the lateral ones outside them. Another form of retractor, suitable for limbs in which there is either a single bone or two parallel ones, is shown in Fig. 69. Cases suitable for this method. — The modified circular method is still performed in certain situations, such as in the upper ex- tremity. Here it is no drawback to have the cicatrix lying directly over the ends of the bone; on the contrary, this may, as we shall presently mention, be actually desirable. In the lower extremity, however, the method is generally modified, by making one of the flaps longer than the other; as a rule the anterior flap is made considerably longer than the posterior, so that the former can be folded over the end of the stump, and the cicatrix made to lie well behind the cut end of the bone. During the healing process, the cicatrix becomes still more markedly pulled up on the posterior surface of the limb. THE FLAP METHOD.—In the so-called "flap method" the cir- cular division of the muscles is also abandoned. Two flaps are made, generally of unequal length, the commonest form being that with a long anterior and a short posterior flap. The first two inches or so of the longer flap should consist merely of skin, subcutaneous tissue and deep fascia, but as it is dissected upwards above this point, the knife is gradually made to take up some of the muscle in the flap; a steadily increasing thickness of muscular substance is then taken up as the flap is Fig. 69.—Metal Retractor for Amputations. By sliding one half of the retractor over the other the size of the ceniral hole can be varied to fit either a single or two parallel bones.