8 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. injury and the reduction of the fracture, the greater will be the difficulty in effecting it, because of the rapid consolidation of the effusion that has been poured out, and the difficulty, therefore, of stretching the parts sufficiently to allow the ends of the bone to come into apposition. When a fracture is reduced, it should be done once and. for all, and the surgeon should then immediately proceed to apply some form of retentive apparatus designed to immobilise the parts. Should suitable fixation apparatus not be at hand when the surgeon first sees the case, he should content himself with applying some form of temporary fixation to the fragments, without making any attempt to bring them into apposi- tion, and he should then, as soon as possible, complete his arrangements for the reduction of the fracture and the permanent maintenance of the broken ends in position. To attempt a partial reduction, in the first instance, and apply a temporary splint, and then to come back again and repeat the reduction before applying a permanent one is to lacerate the tissues twice instead of once, and to lead to the production of a much greater amount of effusion than would be the case if the advice we have just given were followed. MAINTENANCE OF REDUCTION.—In maintaining the fragments in position after reduction, two points must be borne in mind. In the first place, the limb should be placed in a position that will minimise the action of all the muscles that can pull upon the fragment and so repro- duce the displacement; in the second place, some suitable form of apparatus must be employed to fix the bones immovably in proper position. Position of the limb.—One of the first points of importance in putting up a fracture permanently is to place the limb in such a position that the muscles which pull upon the broken fragments, and which may therefore reproduce the displacement, are relaxed as much as possible. This is better than attempting to control muscular action by the applica- tion of powerful splints and tight bandages. In determining the position which a limb should be made to assume when the bone is broken near either extremity, it should be remembered that it is more difficult to act upon the short fragment than upon the long one, and the shorter the fragment the more difficult it is to keep it in proper position. Hence, a good axiom, and one that applies more especially to fractures of the lower extremity, is that the position of the limb during repair should be so arranged that the long fragment is brought into a line with the short one, and not vice versa. For example, in a fracture of the femur below the lesser trochanter, the short upper fragment is tilted forwards, and rotated outwards, and it is quite impossible with any form of apparatus to maintain the short fragment in the horizontal position and prevent its outwards rotation. Hence, in putting up the fracture, the long axis of the lower fragment, that is to say, the thigh and leg, must be made to * coincide with the short one—in other words, the thigh must be flexed and rotated outwards.