THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 30 or in CoUes's fracture, the trouble in the treatment is not so much in the reduction of the deformity and the promotion of coaptation, as in restoring to the patient a useful functional limb; the after-treatment has to be carried out with the greatest care and assiduity for a period often measured by months. It is claimed, and, as far as our own experience goes, we are inclined to think with some show of truth, that by using massage early, freely, and repeatedly, dispensing with splints and employing passive movement as soon as possible in the course of the case, the result is that union takes place as readily as when the case is treated by splints alone, and that, moreover, when union has occurred there are no difficulties such as stiff joints, muscles, or tendons to be treated. This method, of course, necessitates more attention, occupies more time, and calls for the iapplica- tion of more skill than does the ordinary method of reducing the fracture, putting it up in position, and maintaining the splints in place until satis- factory union has occurred; moreover, of course, it is not applicable to every case. The typical cases for which it is used are those in which the fracture is simple, is free from ordinary complications, is easily reduced and maintained in position by means of some simple splinting or retentive apparatus. We shall therefore describe the steps of the treatment in detail. In putting up the limb it is well to choose some form of splint in which the strapping or bandages can be so applied as to leave the seat of fracture and the parts in its neighbourhood as thoroughly exposed as possible. In the first place, simple rubbing of the limb in an upward direction with the palm of the hand should be employed for about ten minutes at a time, once daily. This may be begun from the very first, and is frequently extremely soothing to the patient; after the first few days it may be done twice daily, and each sitting slightly increased in length. It is well also to flex and extend the toes in fractures of the leg, or the fingers in fractures of the forearm, at least once a day; this can be done without disturbing the fracture. The effect of the rubbing will be to rapidly bring about a diminution of the pain and swelling, and by the end of the first week it will be possible to remove the bandages from the extremity of the limb, so as to leave the ankle and foot, or the wrist and the fingers, free. In 'addition to the performance of simple rubbing, which should be carried on as before, passive movements of the joints should now be performed once or twice daily. This is a matter of great importance, and calls for. considerable care. The seat of fracture should be carefully steadied by one hand, whilst the joint is moved with the other. Great care must be taken to extend the range of the move- ments only very gradually, and it is often found at first that there is some pain in its performance; this, however, soon subsides. This movement should be carried out until about the tenth to the fourteenth day after the injury; during this time, of course, the limb is not taken off the splint. The next step is to carefully lift the limb off the splint and lay it