AMPUTATIONS. 242 the flap and upwards on to the anterior surface, and then back again and so on. In Syme's amputation, it is well to apply, in addition, a pad of lint behind the posterior flap so as to still further push it forward. In all cases where it is necessary to support the stump by bandages or strapping in this manner, the limb should be put on the splint in such a position that the utmost possible relaxation of the long flap is obtained. When the amputation becomes septic. — This accident may happen either from some error in the management of the case or as the result of an amputation carried out through the region of septic sinuses. The treatment will be that of a septic wound (see Part I., p. 185). The most important point is the establishment of free drainage of all recesses of the wound. When the septic condition has subsided and granulation is estab- lished, the chief attention will be directed to preventing the retraction of the flaps. This is best done by the gauze and collodion dressing just referred to, which may be put on next the skin; and also by the stump bandage which is applied outside the dressings in the manner just described. Here also special care has to be taken to keep the limb on the splint in such a position as to relax the long flap as much as possible until the wound has healed. Faulty stumps.—Apart from the question of sepsis in amputation wounds, which of course very seldom occurs at the present day, a stump may be faulty from either of two conditions already referred to : namely, adhesion of the cicatrix to the end of the bone, with possibly the involvement of nerves in the scar, or from the formation of what is known as a conical stump. From adherent cicatrix.—The condition of adherent cicatrix has already been referred to ; it usually results from septic infection of the wound and subsequent healing by granulation, which is followed by adhesion of the flaps and the scar to the bone. It may however result, even after a perfectly aseptic operation, from faulty planning of the flaps. Should the cicatrix become adherent to the bone, there is often very great pain on pressure. This may occur even although the larger nerves have been cut short as recommended above, and is then due to the implication in the cicatrix of the smaller nerve branches, which may become bulbous and give rise to excessive pain. Quite apart from the neuralgic condition of a stump in which the cicatrix is adherent, there is very apt to be persistent and often spreading ulceration in the scar, owing to the low vitality of the cicatricial tissue which readily breaks down upon the slightest pressure. This may leave an ulcer in which it is very difificult to obtain cicatrization. In stumps of this kind the nutrition of the entire end of the stump is apt to be very defective; it is cold and livid in colour, and is very liable to be affected by low forms of inflammation and obstinate ulceration. Treatment.—In all these cases of adherent cicatrix the best plan is to re-amputate, and a far better result is obtained by performing an entirely