FRACTURES OF THE SACRUM. lO; often causing great pain and discomfort to the patient on sitting or walking —a condition generally spoken of as coccydynia. TREATMENT.—The chief point in the treatment is to reduce the fragments, so that there shall be no tilting forwards of the lower end, and also to arrange that the bowels shall be kept quite quiet for some days. In the first place, therefore, it is well to wash out the rectum thoroughly with an enema. The finger is then introduced into the rectum, the lower fragment is grasped between it and the thumb externally, and by this means it may be manipulated properly into position. An enema of 20 minims of laudanum in half an ounce of starch is next administered, so as to prevent any further action of the bowels for four or five days. The patient should be instructed to assume the lateral or the prone position and not on any account to lie upon the back. Union usually occurs very satisfactorily if the fracture be simple, and at the end of about three weeks the patient may be allowed to get up; he should not be allowed to sit down until nearly six weeks have elapsed. When the fracture is complicated by a wound of the skin and there is difficulty in preventing the tilting of the lower fragment, the ordinary treat- ment for compound fracture should be carried out, and it may be well to wire the two portions in position. These cases, however, often suppurate owing to the proximity of the wound to the anus, and it may be necessary to remove the wire after a time. The treatment of cases in which the rectum is wounded will be dealt with when we come to speak of injuries of that organ. FRACTURES OF THE COCCYX. CAUSES-—Fracture of the coccyx may occur from direct violence, such as falls in the sitting position, kicks or blows, etc. It sometimes occurs during parturition and closely resembles fracture of the sacrum. The bone may be broken at any part; usually the fracture is in the vicinity of the sacro-coccygeal joint. The fragment is always displaced forwards, and presses more or less upon the rectum, giving rise to a good deal of pain on sitting or standing—the condition known as coccydynia. This fracture is very often overlooked and the displacement is therefore not reduced, so that the fractured ends unite in faulty position and much pain and trouble result. TREATMENT.—The treatment is much the same as that for fracture of the .sacrum. The rectum should be emptied, an attempt made to bring the fragment into position by means of the finger in the rectum, and an enema of starch and laudanum given. Here, however, the tendency of the fragment to become displaced forwards is almost uncon- trollable, and should it be found after replacing the bone several times that the fragment will not remain in position, it is best to cut down and either fix the coccyx by a wire, or, when only a small portion is