26 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. portant to see that there is no outward rotation of the limb unless that should seem desirable in order to bring the lower fragment into the axis of the upper. Counter-extension is provided for by raising the foot of the bed on blocks so that the patient lies upon an inclined plane; the trunk tends to slide down towards the head of the bed and produces satisfactory counter-extension (see Fig. 14). Vertical extension.—Vertical extension of the limb, as recommended by Mr. Bryant, may be employed for fractures of the femur in young children. The stirrup is here applied as before, but instead of being attached to a weight extension at the foot of the bed, it is fastened by a cord to a transverse bar above the cot. The limb is drawn up" into the vertical position, and the cord tied to the bar so that the buttocks are lifted just free of the bed. The sound limb should also be tied up to the bar above the cot so that the child cannot relax the extension upon the fracture by putting the sound limb upon the bed and raising himself upon it. This method will be referred to in more detail under fractures of the femur (see Chap. VI.). Splint extension.—In other cases the extension may be made by traction from one end of a fixed splint. The best example of this is known as Liston's long splint, and has the advantage over simple weight extension that it steadies the limb and can be made to prevent rotation; at the same time, however, the extension is apt to cause irritation and ulceration about the perineum. As this is essentially a splint for fractures of the femur it will be-described when we come to deal with fractures of that bone (see Chap. VI.). Whatever method of extension be employed, a point of great importance is that the patient's bed should be so arranged that it is impossible for the trunk to sink down into the mattrass, as otherwise the fragments would be displaced and the traction which the extension has to overcome would be increased. To prevent this, the so-called " fracture boards" are made use of. They are firm, fairly stout planks of wood of a length corresponding to the width of the bed, and about a foot in breadth; they are placed trans- versely upon the frame of the bed immediately beneath the mattrass, which should be firm and of medium thickness. If there be likelihood of bed- sores forming, a water-pillow should be placed under the lower part of the spine. A cradle should be placed over the affected limb to prevent the friction of the bedclothes and the pointing of the toes, which is very apt to occur from their pressure. A single blanket can be arranged over the limb so as to keep it warm, while the cradle supports the chief weight of the bedclothes. 4. Mechanical fixation of the fractured ends.—While the methods above described are generally satisfactory in the majority of cases, they nevertheless fail in some instances to keep the fractured ends in accurate apposition, and something further must be done to effect this.