185 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF BONE. from the time of the operation, as otherwise the delicate clot which fills up the cavity is apt to break clown. For the same reason, when the lower extremity is affected, the patient should not be allowed to walk ufitil at any rate a couple of months have elapsed. In superficial bones such as the tibia, which is the one most commonly affected, there is no tendency for the muscles to adhere to the bone, because the gouged part is generally the subcutaneous inner surface. These operations should of course be conducted strictly aseptically; were sepsis to occur, the results might be very grave; acute suppurative osteo-myelitis or periostitis might ensue and place the patient in the greatest danger. In old subjects.—This treatment is the best in all cases in which the inflammation is limited to a portion of the bone and occurs in young people. AVhen the inflammation affects the whole length of the bone, the results are not so satisfactory. A very extensive operation must be done, as a groove must be made throughout the whole bone, and much periosteum must be taken away; in old people it is a question whether this is allowable or will suffice. AVhen the whole of a bone is involved the periosteum can only be removed from one side and there is no guarantee against a recurrence of the trouble after operation, because a large portion of the bone will not have been touched. Although the pain as a rule is relieved and there is no further recurrence, still there is no certainty of this and the patient must be exposed to a very serious operation. Nevertheless cases occur in which the pain is so excessive and long continued, and leads to so much agony and loss of sleep, that the patient will submit to anything rather than allow it to go on. In old people it then becomes a question whether amputation will not give a better result when a very large area of bone is involved. Amputation will certainly cure the disease,-—unless neuritis has been set up,—and there will be complete relief of pain, and absence of recurrence after an operation which in old and feeble patients is less dangerous and is followed by a much more rapid recovery than that which we have just described.