FRACTURES: GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 45 degree, the chances of recovery are very slight indeed. It is very im- portant to get all these old people up as soon as possible, as they may be attacked by this complication at any time; in speaking of fractures of the neck of the femur we shall refer to forms of apparatus that may be employed with this object. (6) Delirium tremens.—This is a very common complication of fractures in subjects who are addicted to alcoholic excess. The attack often comes on within a few hours of the receipt of the injury, and at first manifests itself by extreme restlessness, marked loquacity and disinclin- ation to remain in bed. This is followed by the well-known symptoms of delirium tremens, such as hallucinations of vision, muscular tremors, etc. It is noticeable that in these cases the patient constantly tries to move the fractured limb, and apparently these attempts do not cause any pain. One risk of this constant disturbance of the fracture, namely fatty embolism, has already been referred to. Non-union is also prone to occur, and of course a simple fracture may readily be made compound. As a rule the affection runs a course of three or four days and spontaneously subsides: In bad cases, however, especially in elderly people who are the subjects of habitual intemperance and in whom the kidneys are diseased, the gravity of the condition goes on steadily increasing, until the patient falls into a comatose, typhoid state, and dies unconscious. Treatment.—A most essential point in the treatment is to thoroughly immobilise the limb as soon as possible, and for this purpose there is nothing so efficacious as a Croft's splint, applied as soon as the fracture is seen or as soon as the first symptoms of delirium tremens set in. In the latter case it is usually necessary to administer an anesthetic to keep the parts at rest until the plaster has properly set. If this be done, the limb can then be fastened down to the bed, and the patient's restlessness restrained by an attendant. The medical treatment consists essentially in supporting the strength by nutritious food, and in trying to induce sleep. The patient should be isolated and kept in a dark room ; a strong attendant should be present to restrain his attempts to get out of bed. Narcotics should be given with the view of obtaining sleep, and probably the best is chloral in doses of 25 grains by mouth or double that quantity by the rectum ; this may be repeated if necessary every three hours until it takes effect. Morphia as a rule should be avoided; in some cases, however, in persons who are extremely restless, who do not respond to the use of chloral, and in whom the kidneys are healthy, opium given by mouth may sometimes act extremely beneficially. Every effort should be made to make the patient take as much nourishing food as possible; this should be con- centrated and highly nitrogenous, beef-tea, strong soups, milk, egg and brandy, and underdone meat or raw meat juice being administered from time to time. If the patient refuse to take nouri.shment properly, it must be administered either by the rectum or by the stomach tube, pre-