THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. in preserving free movement of the ankle; defective movement may be due to imperfect reduction of the fracture, to union of the fractured surfaces in bad position, or to adhesions in the joint. Imperfect reduction may result either from inability to restore the internal malleolus to its proper position, or, much more rarely, from the interposition of tendon, fascia or ligament between the articular surfaces of the tibia and the astragalus. The tendon that is most likely to give trouble is that of the flexor longus hallucis. (2) These fractures are very prone to become compound; indeed they are not uncommonly compound from the first, the lower end of the tibia piercing the skin over it at the base of the malleolus and protruding on the inner side. Even when the fracture is not compound at first, it is very apt to become so secondarily, either from laceration of the skin before reduction, or from gangrene or ulceration afterwards. Treatment, (a) Of simple fractures.—The first point is accurate reduction of the deformity, and the second, careful fixation of the part so that dislocation shall not recur. As a rule it is best to administer an anfesthetic; no doubt reduction can be effected without it, but the pain and the contraction of the muscles render it difficult, and the difficulty is still further increased when there is also backward displacement of the foot, as the calf muscles tend to prevent the heel coming properly forward. Before the patient is pul under an anaesthetic all the necessary arrange- ments for fixing the limb must of course be made. When the muscles are fully relaxed, the knee is flexed, and the upper part of the leg is fixed by an assistant, while the surgeon grasps the foot with one hand and the leg with the other and manipulates the foot into position. After reduction has been effected, the foot should be well inverted, so that the internal malleolus falls into its proper position and the deformity in the fibula is obliterated. It is important to be sure that there is no obstruction to the movements of the ankle, that the internal malleolus is not caught between the astragalus and the lower end of the tibia, and that there is no tendon or fascia interposed between the articular surfaces; this is readily ascertained when reduction has been effected. When the surgeon is satisfied that the joint is in good position, and that nothing interferes with its movements, the limb should be fixed with the foot firmly inverted. Splints.—^zx\ovi?> splints are employed; if there be no marked swelling or difficulty in reduction, the simplest plan is to put on a Croft's splint (see p. 14), extending from above the knee to the ball of the toes; if there be much spasm of the muscles, it is well to make the splint extend up only to the tubercle of the tibia and then to flex the knee fully upon an inclined plane. The foot is held in position until the splint dries, and the greatest care is taken to keep it at right angles and fully inverted. In this particular fracture it is essential to adopt treatment to obviate the possibility of stiffness of the ankle, and this must be begun from the first. Indeed the method already described in detail (see p. 30) of treating