FRACTURES OF THE OLECRANON. 87 dressings are applied. A considerable mass of dressing should be put on, so that when it is secured by the bandage, the movements of the joint will be considerably hampered; it is well to put on the dressings and bandage with the elbow flexed almost to a right angle. The wire of course will prevent any separation of the fragments, and the rectangular position is better than the straight as far as the subsequent movement is concerned; no splint is necessary. The arm is placed in a sling, and if the patient moves the elbow joint a little inside the bandage he cannot do so enough to interfere in any way with the healing of the wound. After-treatment.—'YMn dressing should be kept on for about a week, and when it is taken down the wound will have healed; the stitches are then removed and a collodion dressing is applied. The arm is replaced in the sling, but before doing so it is well to employ a little passive movement; as a general rule, no adhesions of any consequence will be found. After the lapse of another t\vo or three days, in all about ten days after the operation, the patient may be allowed to dress, to put the arm into a sleeve, to move it for purposes of feeding and so forth, and, while he is enjoined not to lift or move heavy weights, no marked restriction need be placed on its use; in two or three weeks after the injury the arm is generally found to be quite as useful as it was before. Of course at this time there is no bony union, but if a sufficiently strong wire be used and firmly tightened it does not yield at all, and normal bony union occurs in spite of the movement of the joint. In this way adhesions are avoided, and there is no necessity for the employment of forcible movements and massage later on. Choice of cases for operation.—As a rule it is best to wire all cases of transverse fracture of the olecranon. It is certainly quite necessary to wire fractures of the tip of the process and fractures in the ordinary situations with marked separation. But it is also well to wire even fractures lower down with little separation, because, although there is no separation when the arm is straight, it occurs during flexion, and unless wiring be done the limb has to be kept on a splint for several weeks in the extended position to prevent union with angular deformity- This interferes with the due performance of passive movement, the result being that there are often very considerable adhesions and more or less permanent stiffness. Palliative.—When there is some grave constitutional disease, such as diabetes, which prohibits the use of antesthetics or operative interference, or when the patient is very old or declines an operation, some form of apparatus must be used. Should skiagraphy show that the fracture is starred or comminuted, as it sometimes is, it will also be better to employ apparatus. The simplest is a .straight splint along the front of the upper and fore-arm, with a pad in the bend of the elbow, so that the arm is not absolutely straight; otherwise the position becomes so irksome and painful that the patient insists on discarding the apparatus. An attempt should also be made to bring the upper fragment into contact with the lower by strapping. The arm is abducted to a right angle, and narrow strips of strapping are