FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 123 meat* of the fragments : this should never be resorted to, however, unless it be absolutely necessary, as it materially interferes with the extension, and heavier weights must be employed if it be used. It is well to take a skiagram a day or two after the injury, in order to see the position of the fragments, and the amount of shortening should be ascertained by careful measurement. Some little shortening is almost inevit- able, but should it exceed half an inch, the weight extension must be increased. When heavy weights have to be employed, the strapping applied to the thigh often slips and may give rise to troublesome ulceration; the best plan to obviate this is to put up the leg and foot in lateral poroplastic or Croft's splints reaching above the knee, and then to attach the extension to this. A still simpler method is to fasten the extension to a boot; very powerful extension indeed can be then applied without fear of its slipping or causing ulceration. Of course, if the weight necessary to produce effectual extension be so great as to cause pain from undue stretching of the ligaments of the knee, this method is useless ; an attempt may then be Fig. 46.—Metal Shlint for Fracture of the Shaft of the Femur. This splint may usefully be employed to press down the upper fragment in place of, or in .nddition to, the plaster of Paris shield, which it closely resembles in shape. Extra weight can easily be added by moulding a sheet of lead outside the splint. This splint is used in addition to the weight-extension. made to keep the fragments in position by means of a Hodgen's splint, and if that fails it may be necessary to have recourse to operative inter- ference. Operative methods.—If after a few days there be marked shortening, and if a skiagram shows considerable displacement of the fragments, the best plan undoubtedly is to cut down and fix the fracture. This is rarely required, but it may be necessary when the patient is unable to bear extension, or when there is such extreme restlessness that it is impossible to keep the fragments in apposition in any other way. The incision should generally be made rather to the outer side of the limb: this, however, is not an invariable rule, the essential point being not to cut down upon the line of fracture, but to expose the front of one of the fragments, usually the upper one. If the line of fracture only be exposed it will be necessary to detach the soft parts very widely in order to get round to the front of the fragment and to insert screws or