57 FRACTURES OF THE CLAVICLE. rhomboid ligament there is little or no displacement, but there is a slight projection forward of the inner fragment which practically consists of the articular portion of the sternal end of the clavicle. COMPLICATIONS.—Complications are rare and usually only occur when the fracture results from very severe violence. The most frequent is injury to or pressure upon the brachial plexus, leading to severe neuralgia of the upper extremity and, in bad cases, to actual paralysis. Paralysis due to this cause is present before the fracture is reduced; when it occurs after reduction it is generally due to an unduly large pad in the axilla exerting pressure upon the nerves there. When the fractured ends are much comminuted from severe direct violence, there may be a wotmd of the subclavian artery, which may lead to immediate death from haemorrhage, to the occurrence of a large hasmatoma, or to the formation of a false aneurysm. True aneurysm has also followed a fracture of the clavicle as a result of bruising of the coats of the artery. Wounds of the pleura and even of the lung have also been described in connection with these fractures, but they are of great rarity and generally occur when there is also fracture of the first rib. TREATMENT.—Of the ordinary form,—Bearing in mind the triple de- formity in fracture of the clavicle in the common situation, the treatment must be directed towards correcting it, that is to say, the outer fragment must be carried outwards, upwards and backwards. As a rule the results of treatment are by no means perfect as regards appearance, but the fracture always unites quite readily and the functional result is almost invariably good. Recu7nbency.—In the case of ladies, to whom the question of evening dress is important, it may be very desirable to avoid any deformity at all; this can be done by placing the patient in bed in the absolutely recumbent position on a hard flat mattrass with a small narrow hard pillow or pad between the shoulder blades and another supporting the head only. The width of the pillow beneath the spine must be such that the edges of the scapulae do not rest upon it; the weight of the shoulder thus carries the outer fragment backwards much more completely than could be done in any other way. A small pad should also be placed in the axilla, and the elbow raised and fastened at the side. This position must be kept up for two to three weeks; it is naturally very irksome, and few patients will submit to it. In some cases however it may be imperative, as for example when both clavicles are fractured, and there is therefore no sound shoulder from which to support the elbow on the affected side. The Handkerchief method.—Probably the next best method of avoiding deformity is the old plan of pulling back the shoulders by means of handker- chiefs. Two handkerchiefs are taken and folded to the centre until each is about three inches wide. In order to avoid the possibility of chafing, it is well to fold them over a roll of cotton wool which should be about a foot long and should occupy the centre of the handkerchief: in fact the