19 FRACTURES GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. of the limb or sloughing of the parts over the fracture from an increase of effusion beneath the unyielding case, can be entirely obviated by the most ordinary care. It should be a cardinal rule in all cases in which a Croft's splint is applied, that the splint should be opened up in the manner above described directly any symptoms of pressure are manifest; of these the condition of the toes is the most reliable guide. Should they become livid in colour or should there be tinglings or numbness of them, it must be taken as an indication to open the splint immediately. If there be great and steadily increasing pain referred to the seat of fracture, the splint should also be opened at once and the pressure relieved. In any case the splint should, as a matter of routine, be cut up at the end of twenty-four hours, and re-bandaged, after the fracture has been inspected. The second form of CrofCs splmt consists of a somewhat trough- shaped posterior splint and a narrow anterior piece, and has the merit that it requires less nicety in application whilst it has the disadvantage that, composed as it is of an anterior and posterior portion, it is not so suitable for those recent fractures in which it is necessary to have more than the anterior part of the limb easily accessible to inspection. It is perhaps most useful for fractures in which a certain amount of consolidation has taken place; it is also very useful for fixing the limb in various cases of joint disease. It is made of house-flannel as before, and each anterior and posterior portion consists of two layers, both of which are saturated with plaster. The shape of the two portions of the splint is shown in Fig. 7. No accurate measurements are needed for either portion. The I.; .. . ■■ . ■ ■: ..:/ FiCi. 7.—Croft's Splint. Shape of the anterior and posterior foriions. The upper one is the narrower anterior piece. The relative width of the two portions can be varied at will to suit the needs of any particular case. posterior layer should embrace two-thirds of the circumference of the limb, the anterior a little less than one-third. When the flannel has been cut out, the two layers of the posterior portion are impregnated with plaster of Paris, mixed as above (see p. 16), held in position along the back of the limb, and bandaged on either with an ordinary muslin bandage or one of the book-muslin bandages used in the first method of applying Croft's .splint. The two layers of the anterior portion are next similarly impreg-