198 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. deposits open into joints will be best considered under Diseases of the Joints (Part IV.). TREATMENT.—Of course in any given case the actual details of the treatment depend to a considerable extent on the bones or parts of the bones involved; here we can only deal generally with the subject, taking one or two of the cases as examples. It will be unnecessary to treat of tuberculous deposits, tuberculous osteo-myelitis, and tuberculous periostitis separately; it will be suflficient if we take the three clinical divisions : (i) tuberculous disease of bone without abscess; (2) tuberculous disease of bone with abscess; and (3) tuberculous disease of bone with septic sinuses. (1) Of cases unaccompanied by chronic abscess.—Here the great difficulty is to diagnose the existence of tuberculous disease at all. The surgeon must be guided to a great extent by the history of the case, by a previous or hereditary history of tuberculosis, by enlargement of the bone without any marked symptoms, by the general character of the enlargement and by the fact that the part affected is a common seat of tuberculosis. In certain cases, such as strumous dactyHtis, there need be very little hesitation, the only other possibility being syphilitic disease. Skiagraphy will probably be of considerable value in these cases, as by its means alterations in the structure of the bone can be identified and sequestra demonstrated. Palliative measures.—When the diagnosis of tuberculous disease of the bone has been made, the question lies between palliative and radical measures. By palliative measures we mean rest to the part, counter-irritation, pressure and good hygienic conditions, such as country air, cod-liver oil, syrup of iodide of iron, etc. These have already been referred to in speaking of tuberculous disease in general (see Part I., p. 254), and will be again referred to under Diseases of Joints; we need not there- fore go further into the matter here. Sometimes these measures suffice to arrest the disease, and, in strumous dactylitis particularly, little else may be necessary. In the latter affection some salicylic wool should be applied firmly round.the affected part by means of a bandage, and the whole finger and hand put up in plaster of Paris. This should be renewed every two or three weeks. When the hand is very small, a moulded poroplastic splint may be easier to apply. A good many cases recover if this treatment be steadily pursued for a long time—several months-—and it is seldom that an operation is necessary or advisable, unless an abscess forms. In the case of other bones, counter-irritation, especially by means of the actual cautery (see Part I., p. 19), is often very useful. Radical measures.—When, however, the deposit is in the articular end of a bone it is very liable to open into the joint and produce disease there, and therefore it is advisable to get rid of it as soon as possible. The best treatment is to cut down without delay and remove the deposit. The incision should be so planned that it does not