204 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. IN TERTIARY SYPHILIS.—In the tertiary stage are found gummata ^ of bone and syphilitic osteitis with great thickening. The gummata of bone may occur sub-periosteally or in the medulla, and there may be either a circumscribed gummatous mass or a diffuse infiltration of the whole bone with gummatous material. The circumscribed gummata are most frequent on the skull, where they may begin either under the periosteum or in the diploe. They also occur frequently in the vomer, the nasal bones, the palate, the clavicle, the tibia, and the epiphyseal ends of other bones. The gummatous material spreads from the deeper layer of the periosteum into and along the Haversian canals, and leads to rarefying osteitis in its vicinity, while condensation of the bone beyond takes place, so that a bone which has been the seat of syphilitic gum- matous disease presents an eroded and worm-eaten surface, due to the great size of the Haversian canals, with very dense bone around. This condition is sometimes spoken of as syphilitic caries, and considerable destruction of bone may result from it. In other cases, portions of the condensed bone may die, and thus a syphilitic sequestrum is formed, the characteristic of which is that it is much denser and heavier than normal bone, because before dying it has been the seat of condensing osteitis; its surface is worm-eaten from the spread of the gummatous material along the Haversian canals. These sequestra, like those of tuberculous origin, often take a long time to separate. There is not the same stalactitic new formation of bone from the periosteum in connection with these sequestra as there is in ordinary necrosis, although sometimes, when the sequestrum is central, it may be more or less surrounded by bone. In gummatous disease of bone there is often a good deal of pain, which is generally more intense than in the syphilitic node, of a boring character and worse at night; when gummata occur in superficial bones, they spread in the soft tissues and involve the skin, and a syphilitic ulcer forms, at the bottom of which there is bare bone, soft on the surface but very dense underneath, so that a probe cannot be pushed for any distance into it. Treatment.—The treatment of gummatous disease of bone is that of tertiary syphilis and consists essentially in the administration of large doses of iodide of potassium together with mercury. The patient should begin with fifteen grain doses of the iodide three times a day, and very quickly increase them to thirty or forty grains; it is well to combine this with mercury (see Part I., p. 235). Operative.—Gummatous bone disease is one of the forms of tertiary syphilis in which surgical intervention materially shortens the course of the case, and may lead to permanent cure. The operation consists in opening up the affected area, scraping away the diseased tissue, and chiselling away some of the dense bone. If a sequestrum be present, it should of course be removed. After removing the diseased and thickened bone, the whole surface should be thoroughly sponged with undiluted