FRACTURES OF THE MIDDLE OF THE FORE-ARM. ensures their keeping in place until the splints have been applied. The next important point is the determination of the position in which the fore-arm ^hall be put up; this depends upon the situation of the fracture in the radius. When the fracture is above the insertion of the pronator radii teres, the fore-arm must be in the position of full supination, and an anterior angular and a posterior straight splint should be applied. When the fracture is below this point, the Hmb should be midway between pronation and supination, and either the moulded splint or internal angular and external straight wooden splints should be employed. In other words, the lirrtb is put up as if for a fracture of the radius alone (see p. 94). The width of these splints should be somewhat greater than the transverse diameter of the fore-arm, so that the bandage fixing them cannot exert any lateral pressure upon the bones ; at the same time the splints must not be too broad, as otherwise the arm might slip about from side to side if the bandages become loose, and thus the deformity could readily recur. Whenever wooden splints are employed they should be cut to the shape of the fore-arm, and should be wide enough to project about half an inch beyond it everywhere; hence they must be much broader above opposite the bellies of the muscles than about the wrist. The ordinary splint as supplied by instrument makers is not at all suitable ; if used, it must be cut to fit the arm. It is very often recommended that a pad should be applied between the bones along the middle of the fore-arm in front, so as to prevent union of one bone to the other; this is quite useless, for no pad which does not exert injurious pressure on the circulation could separate the bone ends. The surgeon must rely for success upon proper reduction and immobiHsation of the fracture. After-treatment.—In putting up these fractures, the pressure of the splints must not be so severe as to cause a risk of gangrene; the fingers must always be left out of the splint, which should not extend further down than the transverse crease of the palm, so as to allow of active and passive movement of the fingers being practised from an early stage. The fore-arm should be placed in a sling supporting both the elbow and the hand. The splints may be left undisturbed for about three weeks, at the end of which time they should be taken off in order to practise active and passive move- ments of the wrist and elbow joints. The splints must not be altogether discarded until about the fifth or sixth week, and not then unless the union be firm. This is a point of considerable importance, as there is not the same risk of stiffness in the joints or about the tendon sheaths as in the fractures lower down, whilst the risk of non-union is very considerable. Green-stick fracture. —This is of common occurrence in children; the treatment is practically the same as in the fracture just described. The bones must be forcibly straightened before the limb is put up, and this is best done under an ansesthetic. The splint need only be kept on for three weeks; after that the arm should be worn in a sling for another ten days.