ACUTE INP-LAMMATION OF BONE. 171 inflammation of the bone itself or osteitis, and inflammation of the medulla of the bone or osteo-myelitis. When the periosteum is inflamed the bone beneath is affected also, and when the medulla is inflamed the bone and the periosteum are also attacked; so that it must be remembered that all three forms are included under each head, the individual name given to the particular affection varying according to which of the three tissues is the principal seat of the disease. Inflammation of bone may be acute or chronic; acute osteitis may be suppurative or non-suppurative, while the chronic inflammations of bone may be divided into the simple, the tuberculous, and the syphilitic. ACUTE NON-SUPPURATIVE OSTEITIS.—It is doubtful whether inflammation of bone, unaccompanied by suppuration and deserving the name "acute," does really occur, and in any case it is a very rare con- dition ; indeed, it is a matter of much doubt whether even a truly acute periostitis can occur without a pyogenic infection. A form of acute periostitis has been described by Oilier under the name of "albuminous periostitis," in which exudation of a serous or albuminous nature occurs beneath the periosteum, but this is probably only a mild form of the suppurative variety; it has been said also to be due to pyogenic cocci. Inflammation of the periosteum sometimes occurs during typhoid fever, but in most instances this ends in suppuration, and is either due to the typhoid bacillus itself or else to an infection by the pyogenic organisms. Treatment.—The affection does not call for extended notice. If it were to occur, the treatment would clearly be to cut down upon and freely divide the periosteum at once. As this is the best treatment in the early stages of the suppurative form, the remarks that follow will apply to this affection. ACUTE SUPPURATIVE OSTEITIS. — This disease is usually spoken of as acute osteo-myelitis, because the inflammation almost always begins in the medulla of the bone, although in a few cases, no doubt, the deeper layer of the periosteum is the primary seat of the inflammation. Causes.—Acute suppurative osteo-myelitis is an acute inflammation of the medulla, ending in suppuration, which occurs especially in young .subjects, and which may be followed by a general pytemic infection. The disease may begin spontaneously or may follow an injury, such as a compound fracture; it is due to the pyogenic organisms, generally the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, sometimes the albus, very rarely the streptococcus pyogenes. In the spontaneous form these organisms are deposited from the blood, whence they are derived from some preceding inflammatory condition, such as a boil. The disease is not uncommonly preceded by digestive disturbance and diarrhoea, and in these cases the organisms probably gain entrance from the intestinal tract. Very often some local injury, such as a slight blow, a sprain, pressure, or exposure to cold, determines the localisation of the disease in a particular part. The spon- ianeous form appears during the period of growth, most commonly