42 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. Treatment.—The treatment consists in immediate reduction of the fracture and immobilisation of the limb in a slightly elevated position to favour the return of blood. If there be much tension of the skin and tendency to vesication, the splint should be so arranged that the affected part is accessible, and evaporating lotions, such as the ordinary spirit lotion or lead and opium lotion (see Part I., p. 8), should be applied. An ice-bag is often used, but great care must be taken in employing it on account of the depressing effect of the cold upon the already damaged soft parts, which may very readily undergo gangrene, and thus a simple fracture may be converted into a compound one. If used at all, it should only be in vigorous healthy subjects; some lint should be interposed between the skin and the ice-bag, and the condition of the parts fre- quently inspected. If the itching be very troublesome, the skin should be dusted over with boracic powder, either alone or mixed with an equal quantity of starch, and the vesicles as they form should be pricked and the fluid let out; care should be taken that the epithelial covering of the vesicle is not removed. If the skin over the area of the fracture become eczematous, one of the best applications is diachylon ointment, or some simple oint- ment such as the quarter-strength boracic, or a dusting powder consisting of equal parts of oxide of zinc and boracic acid may be used. Sometimes the tension is so great as to threaten gangrene of the skin ; this is shown by increasing duskiness of the part, coldness, and anaesthesia. Under these circumstances gangrene may sometimes be avoided if the limb be thoroughly purified and free incisions be made through the skin into the subcutaneous tissues, so as to let out the blood and the inflammatory effusion and so to relieve the tension. If incisions be made in this way, the simple fracture will probably be converted into a compound one, and great care must therefore be taken to secure complete asepsis. The sub- sequent treatment will be that of compound fracture. (2) Thrombosis.—This is a not uncommon complication, and is often unavoidable. It may occur either at the time of the accident, from injury to the veins, or may ensue later on as a result of the pressure of the effusion upon the veins of the part, and the occurrence of a slight amount of phlebitis. As a rule it is of little importance; at most it leads to some oedema of the limb below the seat of fracture. In some very rare cases, however, portions of clot may be detached and give rise to embolism elsewhere. Treatment.—All that is necessary in the immediate treatment of this , condition is to elevate the limb so as to favour the return of blood, to avoid tight bandages above the seat of fracture, and to keep the patient perfectly quiet so as to avoid the risk of detachment of portions of the clot. Care must afterwards be taken not to allow the patient out of bed too soon, as it is not at all uncommon in these cases to find that the result of getting the patient even on to the sofa is an extension of the thrombosis