l6o THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. crest of the tibia anywhere. The spUnt is laid upon the padding and fastened above by a folded handkerchief, the centre of which is placed just below the tubercle of the tibia, while its ends are passed round behind the limb, brought forward, threaded through the holes in the top of the splint and tied. After the upper end is fixed, the splint is bandaged to the limb and a handkerchief is passed behind the point of the heel and the latter dragged well forward, the ends of the handkerchief being passed around the prongs of the splint, then back again beneath the heel and fastened there. When there is much backward displacement of the foot it is well to arrange an extra mass of wool between the lower end of the splint and the front of the leg, so as to serve as a fulcrum to enable the heel to be pulled well forward. When there is both displacement outwards and backwards, a Dupuytren's splint may be applied first, and then a Syme's splint. The heel bandage should be made to drag forward the heel before the bandage to invert the foot is tightened; by this combination of Dupuytren's and Syme's splints the displacement is satisfactorily overcome. The splint must be watched with great care for pressure sores both over the crest of the tibia and the front of the instep; should any signs of these be present, the splint should be abandoned at once. After about ten days a Croft's splint can be applied and the limb slung in a cradle. (b) Of compound fractures.—A compound Pott's fracture is a very serious condition, and the greatest care must be taken in the disinfection, as the case is one of compound fracture communicating with a joint. Fortu- nately the wound generally results from the end of the tibia being driven through the skin, so that there is no primary infection of the joint; any dirt or foreign matter present is generally in contact with the end of the bone and does not often find its way into the joint, so long as the surgeon takes care not to replace the protruding bone until thorough disinfection has been carried out. Cases of compound fracture of this kind seen before the materials for proper disinfection are at hand should be put on a splint and steadied there without any attempt to reduce the fracture until the necessary arrangements can be made; the very greatest care should be taken to prevent premature reduction. The further treatment is that already described for compound fracture (see p. 31); the end of the bone is most carefully disinfected with pure carbolic acid, the whole of the malleolus being thoroughly protruded and the skin wound enlarged if necessary; the .skin is also disinfected and the joint is washed out, first with 1-20 carbolic lotion and then with 1-8000 sublimate solution. If a considerable portion of the internal malleolus be detached, advantage may be taken of the free exposure of the parts to fasten it in position by plated tin tacks or ivory pegs. A drainage tube is next inserted at the back of the joint, the fracture reduced and cyanide dressings applied, and the leg and foot put up in lateral wire splints (see Fig. 2), which .should be sterilised, moulded accurately to the limb and incor-