THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 90 be in contact if the incision has been properly planned. The adjacent sides of the serrations above and below are stitched to each other, so that two blunt cones are formed, one above and the other below the line of division of the muscle; the apices of these blunt cones are then stitched together by the muscle suture described in Part II., p. 199. The incision is best made in the lower part of the muscle, so that the apices of the upper serrations include some portion of the tendinous expansion ; the best union is obtained if muscular fibres be included in the incisions instead of making them entirely through the tendon. When the fragment has been brought down by these means, holes must be drilled in it and the wire passed in the manner already described (see p. 84). It is generally found that the bone, especially the detached fragment, is much softer than in recent fractures, and the holes must be bored as far away as possible from the fractured surfaces, so as to get a sufficiently firm hold, for otherwise the wires are apt to cut out. Before the wires are inserted it is well to flex the elbow thoroughly so as to break down all adhesions. After-treatment.—The subsequent treatment is much the same as that already described for recent fractures, but greater care must be taken in carrying out movement, because of the softness of the bone ; it is also well to put on a splint for a few days. At first the limb should be put up almost straight, but every two or three days a slight increase in the flexion should be made. As soon as the arm has been brought to a right angle, the splint may be abandoned and a sling substituted for it. In about a fortnight after the operation the patient may be allowed to move the arm to some extent; flexion beyond a right angle should be delayed until bony union has occurred, as otherwise the wire may cut its way through the soft bone. The difficulty in getting a useful arm in cases of ununited fracture serves to emphasize the necessity for immediate operation in recent cases, provided always that the surgeon can trust his antiseptic precautions to prevent suppuration in the joint; should such an accident occur the result is likely to be disastrous. All that can then be done is to remove most of the stitches, insert a drainage tube, take out the wire and thoroughly drain the joint cavity. Unless, however, the surgeon feels practically certain that suppuration will not occur he should not undertake the operation. FRACTURE OF THE CORONOID PROCESS. CAUSES.—Fractures of the coronoid process are of very rare occurrence and practically only occur in connection with dislocation of both bones of the forearm backwards. The point that leads to the diagnosis of this con- dition in backward dislocation of both bones is that, while the dislocation is easily reduced, the bones of the forearm tend to slip back again unless steps are taken to prevent it. In addition to this, in some cases the loose fragment of the coronoid may interfere with full flexion of the limb.