154 '^^^ SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. UN* plane. The best plan is, however, to expose the other leg and to compare the two sides. After-treatment.—At first the dressing must be changed every day; this may be done with the least possible disturbance by having a second Maclntyre's splint at hand arranged in an exactly similar manner. 'I'he original dressing is then turned aside without disturbing the leg, the wounds are washed, and an assistant supports the thigh, while the surgeon gently lifts the leg, grasping it firmly at the ankle and above the fracture. The splint and dressing are then taken away, an assistant washes the back of the leg with 1-2000 sublimate solution, the fresh splint is placed in position, the leg laid down on it, and the dressing arranged as before It is of course only during the first week or ten days that frequent dressings are necessary; later on it will not be necessary to lift the leg out of the splint at all; it will suffice to turn aside the dressing, pack in a little gauze along the side of the leg, and then apply a fresh piece of dressing in front, so that for several days the back of the leg need not be disturbed. As soon as healing has occurred, the leg may be placed in a Croft's splint and kept at absolute rest. As only the tibia is fractured and the fibula remains intact there is not much danger of unduly disturbing the fracture when the limb is trans- ferred from one splint to another, as we have recommended above. Should it be found, however, that it is impossible to carry this out without risk, the interrupted plaster splint (see Fig. 15) should be em- ployed instead. Ununited fracture.—Ununited fracture occurs frequently from imperfect fixation of the foot. If prolonged rest in a plaster of Paris casing fails to secure union, operation may become necessary. When the fracture is transverse it may suffice to remove the fibrous tissue between the ends of the bone and to refresh the latter ; union will occur even though there be some little interval between the fragments, provided that no soft parts are interposed. In one case of non-union in which the interval between the fragments, after removal of the intervening fibrous tissue, was not more than a quarter of an inch, we chiselled off a thin shaving of the tibia above the seat of fracture and hammered it firmly in between the two fragments so as to wedge them together; perfect union resulted. If, however, the interval be considerable, the fibula must also be exposed and enough of it removed to allow the two ends of the tibia to come together. The former method is always preferable if it can be adopted ; if the fibula be resected there may be greater delay in the union on account of the greater mobility of the limb. It is very rarely, however, in this form of fracture that the gap between the fragments will be of any size, owing to the fact that the fibula is intact throughout and therefore resection of it will hardly ever be called for. FRACTURES OF THE LOWER END OF THE TIBIA.—Fracture in this region is extremely rare and need not be referred to at length.