FRACTURES : GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 3 tissues as a result of movement, or from the occurrence of inflammation and suppuration or gangrene of the parts over the broken ends. A Complicated fracture is one that is compHcated with some other injury; this may be a wound in the skin which does not, however, com- municate with the bone, or wounds of vessels, nerves, joints, etc. Fractures are still further subdivided according to the peculiarities about the line of fracture. According to the direction of the line of fracture, they are classified as transverse, oblique, and spiral fractures. ^\'hen the bone at the seat of fracture is broken up into a number of small pieces, the term coirmiitiuted fracture is usually applied. Multiple fractures are those in which there is either more than one fracture in an individual bone, or more than one bone broken. An impacted fracture is one in which one end of the broken bone is driven into and, to a certain extent, splits up the other fragment. A greenstick fracture is one in which, owing to the softness of the bone, the fracture is incomplete, some of the fibres being torn while others are merely bent. Besides these forms of true fracture, there is a separation of the epiphysis from its junction with the shaft; this occurs only in subjects under the age of twenty-five, and in many cases the line of separation runs partly through the epiphyseal cartilage and partly through the shaft of the bone. Various other forms of fracture are described, but they are of very little importance from the point of view of treatment; most of them occur in the flat bones, more particularly those of the skull, and will be discussed later on. Amongst these may be mentioned fissures, indentations, starred and depressed fractures. DISPLACEMENT.—Varieties.—When a bone is fractured, the frac- tured ends are, as a general rule, more or less displaced as regards each other; it is comparatively rare for a fracture to be unaccompanied by any displacement. The chief displacements which may be met with are angular displacements, where the fragments are inclined at an angle to each other, as is seen especially in greenstick fracture; lateral displacements, where the fractured ends remain to some extent in apposition, but are displaced t(; the side; ridi?ig or overlapping of the fragments, which is especially common in oblique fractures, the lower end being pushed up in front of or behind the other; rotation of one fragment around its vertical axis; and separation of the fragments, which is most often seen in fractures of the patella and the olecranon. Causes.—The displacement in fractures is due to the force which produces the injury, to the contraction of muscles inserted into the frag- ments, or to the weight of the limb. In most cases the primary displacement is determined by the direction and force of the injury producing the fracture. There is comparatively very slight displacement in fractures due to direct violence, whilst it is very marked in those produced by indirect violence. This shows that it is not due, primarily at any rate, so much to