THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 38 already fully described (see Part II., p. 297). Unless the aneurysm be rapidly increasing, it need not be operated upon until the fracture has undergone consolidation, for the occurrence of an aneurysm of this kind does not necessarily interfere with union, whilst the operation required for its cure might possibly do so. (d) Injury to the main vein.— Injuries to the main vein occurring as complications of fracture do not materially aggravate the severity of the case. Repair and recovery usually take place uninterruptedly; all that is necessary is to facilitate the return of blood from the parts below by raising the limb slightly above the level of the trunk; at the same time the former should be enveloped in salicylic wool, so as to promote warmth. When both the main artery and vein are damaged simultaneously, the danger of gangrene is of course far greater than when the injury is limited to only one of these vessels, but usually, if proper care be taken to wrap the limb up in salicylic wool, to elevate it well, and to see that there is no undue pressure anywhere, recovery will occur. (e) Injury to the main nerve.—The main nerves are sometimes torn by the fractured ends, and this accident is evidenced by the loss of sensation and motion in the part supplied by the nerves injured. When it is clear, on careful examination, that an accident of this kind has happened, the nerve ends should be sutured without loss of time (see Part II., p. 250). It must, however, be remembered that it is not always easy in a case of simple fracture to be quite certain that the loss of sen- sation in the parts below is due to actual rupture of the nerve and not to bruising or compression; if any doubt exists, it is well to set the fracture first and then to wait for a few days, or even as long as a week or two, to see whether recovery will take place. If at the end of this time no improvement occurs, it is probable that the nerve has been divided, and it will be well to cut down upon it at the seat of fracture without further delay. If it be found undivided, no harm will be done, whereas, if it has been torn, a long delay would only diminish the chances of a satisfactory issue. Here, again, in putting up the fracture, it is very important to avoid undue pressure by the splint or other restraining apparatus, because parts which are imperfectly innervated are more prone to slough from pressure than are healthy tissues. (f) Injury to a neighbouring* viseus.—The treatment of a com- plication of this kind will, of course, be the treatment appropriate to the injury of the viscus affected, rather than anything specially directed to the fracture. The viscera which are most commonly injured are the lungs in fractures of the true ribs, the kidneys and spleen in fractures of the lower ribs, and the bladder and rectum in fractures of the pelvis. It is sufficient here to call attention to the fact that these injuries may occur; their treatment will be dealt with in the sections dealing with the injuries of these organs.