GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 229 raised, so that, when the point is reached at which it is proposed to divide the bone, the muscle is divided right down to that structure (see Fig. 70). In the posterior flap it is well to take up only skin, subcutaneous tissue, and deep fascia for the first two inches or more, and then to complete the flap by cutting through the muscles more or less directly down to the bone. There is no need to take up the muscle gradually as in the other flap on account of the greater contraction of the muscles on the posterior aspect of the limb. AVhen the flaps have been retracted, the bone is divided at a slightly higher level than the base of the flaps. Here again, as in the circular method, a collar of periosteum may be raised in a similar manner and with a similar object. No retractors are required to keep the muscles out of the way of the saw in this form of amputation. The flaps are folded back and the soft parts are then well out of the way of harm. Fig. 70.—Flap Method of Amputation. The flaps—long anterior^and short posterior—are cut from without inwards. The steps of the operation are fully described in the te.\t. The advantage of fashioning the lower end of the flaps from the skin and subcutaneous tissues only is that they can be brought together more easily and with less tension than can flaps cut by transfixion, or those in which the muscle is taken up from the first. Either of these procedures renders it exceedingly difificult to tuck in the large protruding muscular mass met with when the wound is being stitched up ; owing to its elasticity, the skin retracts considerably, while the muscles on the other hand protrude beyond it. After transfixion operations it was not infre- quently necessary to cut away a quantity of muscle before the flaps could be sewn up without tension. The length of the flaps.—It is important to remember that the skin is a very elastic structure and will retract considerably after it has been divided; the skin flap therefore undergoes considerable shortening after it is rai.sed. Similarly the muscles retract and not only become shorter themselves but pull the skin up along with them. Although the skin can be again stretched to its original length when the wound is stitched up, there is a certain risk of interfering with its vascular supply in