THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. are very common; they must be treated on the lines already laid down for compound fractures in general, the wound if necessary being enlarged and the part thoroughly disinfected in the manner already described (see p. 31). If loose fragments be present between the ends of the bones they should be removed, and if the line of fracture be oblique the fragments should be screwed together; a drainage tube should be inserted and the ordinary gauze dressings applied. It is best to use strong sterilised wire splints incorporated with the dressing as they get a more complete grasp of the limb than any other form of splint; their advantages have already been referred to (see p. 161). Like all compound fractures treated aseptically these cases are much slower in uniting than simple fractures, and very often a prolonged course of rest is necessary in order to obtain firm union. When the wound is at the back of the leg—which is however rarely the case—the limb is best immobilised by an anterior splint of malleable Fig. 63.—Anterior Suspension Bar for Compound Fracture of the Leg. The limb is fixed firmly to the bar by plaster of Paris bandages about the knee and ankle. Between these points is seen ihe bandage securing the dressing. iron or two parallel splints, one running down on each side of the crest of the tibia reaching from the lower third of the thigh to the dorsum of the foot, and fastened by plaster of Paris bandages round the upper part of the leg and thigh on the one hand and to the foot and lower part of the leg on the other. A sufficient interval is thus left for dressing the wound, and the splint may be slung in a cradle and the wound got at without dis- turbing the parts (see Fig. 63). As however there is likely to be some displacement of the ends of the bones, it may be necessary to screw or wire the fracture first and then to sling the limb as above. Ununited fracture.—Ununited fracture of the tibia is fairly often met with; in the fibula the condition is rare. It is more common in fractures due to indirect violence than in those due to direct violence, and it is also common in compound fractures. The causes may be excessive move-