34 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. If blood comes through the dressing during the first twenty-four hours, the bandage and the outer layers of wool should be thoroughly soaked with 1-20 carbolic lotion, and a fresh gauze and wool dressing applied outside. In any case the wound should be dressed in four or five days and the drainage tube removed. The limb is put up again with a wire splint incorporated in the dressings as before, and it need not then be disturbed for several weeks. When the wound becomes septic.—Should it be found, however, that the attempt to obtain asepsis has failed, the case must be treated as a septic wound. If a high temperature and signs of osteo-myelitis supervene, the question of amputation will arise, and this will probably prove Ihe safest practice where, the patient is getting progressively worse, more especially if there be rigors; the amputation will be performed through or above the joint next above the fracture. It is however generally found that, even should the case become septic after the thorough treatment just described, the free drainage provided renders infection of the medulla to any extent comparatively rare, and the limb may still be saved. Under these circumstances it becomes a question whether the wire or pegs employed for fixing the bones together should be removed or not. This will be decided by ascertaining whether much irritation is resulting from their presence ; should there be very little, they may be left in situ for some weeks, because they tend to steady the bones ; but if irritation is caused they must be removed. In these septic cases frequent changes of dressings are of course necessary, and means must be taken to fix the parts so that they shall be disturbed as little as possible during the dressing; unless this be done, non-union will inevitably result. This end cannot be attained simply by trusting to an assistant to steady the limb. When lateral splints are used, it is sometimes possible to keep the parts sufficiently steady by removing one splint while the assistant holds the limb firmly in contact with the one on the opposite side; the dressing is applied to the side thus exposed, and then, after re-applying the splint on that side and having the limb firmly held in contact with it, the opposite splint is removed and the change of dressing carried out there also (see Fig. 6). This is, however, sometimes a matter of difficulty when the wound in the soft parts is at all extensive, and under these circumstances the following arrangement will be found more satisfactory. Two or three rods of malleable iron are taken and are bent outwards into a semicircle over an area corresponding to the region of the wound. The two extremities of these iron bars are then bound firmly to the limb by being incorporated in a plaster of Paris bandage (see Fig. 15). A bandage of boracic lint is first applied to the limb above and below the wound; over this a few turns of plaster of Paris bandage are put on, and then the metal bars are adjusted and their ends are covered in by fresh turns of the plaster bandage. An interruption is thus formed of sufficient size to allow of free access to the wound. In this way a firm splint, taking its.