178 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. a question whether anything short of amputation is Hicely to be of use. Of course, as the epiphyseal cartilage is destroyed in these cases, no further growth will take place, and therefore if the patient be a young child it is an open question whether anything but amputation is likely to give a good result; the answer must depend upon the circumstances of the case and upon the particular bone affected. Bone-grafting.—Of the various plans designed to obtain a firm limb under these circumstances bone-grafting has yielded the best results. Before this can be done, the part must be aseptic and, therefore, it is quite useless to introduce pieces of bone into a wound in which sinuses are still present ; before anything of this kind can be attempted the wound must have soundly healed. The operation consists in opening up the soft tissues along the line of the deficient bone down to the periosteum and splitting this in two if it can be recognised, and then introducing pieces of bone from some other patient or from one of the lower animals. Perhaps the most convenient animal to use is a young dog. The following ave the steps of the operation. After the skin has been thoroughly purified, a free incision is made over the deficient bone. The thickened remains of the periosteum are incised, and a bed is made for the new bone. The wound is then stuffed with sponges to arrest the bleeding, and covered with gauze dipped in a I-2000 sublimate solution. It is better not to use a tourniquet, because it gives rise to prolonged after-bleeding, which is apt to separate the bone- grafts from the tissues; the oozing should be allowed to stop before the grafts are inserted. The animal selected is then killed by an assistant and rapidly skinned, the carcase douched with 1-2000 sublimate solution and placed on an aseptic board or tray covered with a carbolised towel. With a fresh sterilised knife and forceps the muscles are rapidly peeled off the bone—the best one for the purpose is the humerus—the periosteum being left undisturbed, and a portion is removed by cutting pliers. The length of the individual grafts is not a matter of much importance ; they can be as long as the wound, but they must not be too thick or too broad, and it is well therefore to split the bone longitudinally into fragments with a stout knife. A series of these fragments are laid in the wound after removal of the sponges, until a sufficient amount has been introduced. The skin wound is then closed without a drainage tube, an antiseptic dressing applied, and the part put on a splint, on which it is kept at rest sufficiently long for consolidation to occur. If the operation be done aseptically, no infection of the part will take place, and the pieces of bone do not separate; they gradually become welded together and united with the surrounding tissues, and to some extent they lead to the formation of new bone. Unfortunately, in a good many cases absorption goes on to such an extent that the limb becomes weak again, but in some instances very satisfactory results have been obtained. It is better to use bone from one of the lower animals than from another