GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 223 The increasing favour of irregular flaps.—A third very noticeable fact is that nowadays amputations are rarely carried out on the hard and fast lines formerly laid down for the surgeon's guidance. The employment of irregular flaps and the use of irregular amputations is coming more and more into vogue; in fact, the particular method of amputation that is adopted in any given case now depends, not upon the surgeon's predilection for any one form of incision or kind of flap, but upon the actual conditions of the part. Thus, in amputating for injury, the main idea present in the surgeon's mind is how to insure the patient a stump that shall be as useful as possible, and he will therefore often shape his flaps in an irregular manner, so as to obtain a longer or more useful stump. To describe the various irregular amputations that are constantly being done would be quite impossible, while it is safe to say that many of the set amputations found in text-books are only performed upon the cadaver. A factor which has greatly assisted in this direction is the introduction of antiseptics. By their means the chances of inflammation in the stump have been greatly diminished, the risk of sloughing of partially-injured flaps has been reduced to a minimum, while the danger of secondary heemorrhage has practically disappeared. Thanks to asepsis, we are now enabled even to fashion the flaps from tissues that have been bruised by the injury, so long as their vitality has not been markedly interfered with and the circulation in them remains good after they have been cut; in the formation of flaps, tissues which would formerly have been removed are nowadays utilized without the least hesitation. Predominance of the skin-flap,—Another noticeable feature in present- day methods is the increasingly frequent use of skin-flaps, and the diminution in the amount of muscle employed to cover the bone. This depends also upon the fact that inflammation is absent from aseptic wounds, and that the swelling and consequent sloughing of the skin-flaps which led to their rejection in former times is therefore not likely to occur. THE ESSENTIALS OF A GOOD AMPUTATION. There are three essential points in all cases of amputation. In the first place the bone must be satisfactorily covered ; in the second, the diseased or injured parts must be completely removed; and in the third place, the limb remaining must be as useful as possible. Where sufficient covering has been provided for the bone, the end of the stump will be rounded and supple, but firm enough to bear considerable pressure without pain. Position of the cicatrix.—When the end of the stump is required to bear pressure, the cicatrix must not be in such a position that it will be exposed to any pressure from the divided end of the bone; it is also most important that the flap shall not be adherent to the bone, and that the cicatrix shall be painless. These requirements can generally be easily arranged for with a little care. In amputating in the lower extremity the