THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 94 radii teres, the upper fragment remains in a position midway between pronation and supination, while the lower is completely pronated and drawn inwards towards the ulna. TREATMENT. — Of fracture above the insertion of the pronator teres.—The elbow must be flexed to a right angle and the fore-arm put in the position of complete supination. This can be done by an anterior rect- angular splint and a posterior straight one reaching from the olecranon to the back of the hand. A pad should be placed over the lower end of the upper fragment, so as to keep it back in position, and the elbow and fore-arm should be supported by a large sling. These splints should be kept on for about four weeks, when passive motion may be commenced; it is well not to discard the anterior splint altogether until about six weeks have elapsed from the time of the injury. Of fracture below the insertion of the pronator teres.—The fore-arm should be put up at right angles in a position midway between pronation and supination. The best splint is an external angular poroplastic one, moulded to the arm and fore-arm, and made to surround the limb more or less com- pletely ; it is moulded to the limb while the latter is held in proper position. It should extend almost up to the axilla above, and below it should fix the hand, but the fingers should be left free. A Croft's plaster of Paris external splint may also be used, or faihng either of these, an ordinary wooden internal angular splint with an external straight splint over the posterior surface of the fore-arm. FRACTURES OF BOTH BONES OF THE FORE-ARM. CAUSES.—This is not an uncommon form of injury and may occur either from indirect violence, as in a fall upon the out-stretched hand, or from direct injury. DISPLACEMENT.—This is generally only slight and is influenced largely by the force producing the fracture. The fracture of the radius is often oblique, and there may in some cases be a good deal of over-riding of the fragments. TREATMENT.—There are two important points in the treatment of these fractures in the middle of the fore-arm. In the first place, it is in this situation that ununited fracture of the radius is fairly common, and this no doubt results from want of proper fixation of the elbow; the movements of pronation and supination are insufficiently guarded against. In the second place, there is a tendency for the four fractured surfaces to be drawn towards one another, and union may actually take place between them, and thus there may be complete loss of pronation and supination. Non-union is avoided by fixing the elbow joint so that pronation and supination are impossible. Fusion of the fractured ends may be prevented by avoiding all lateral pressure on the bones after proper coaptation. In all these cases it is well to give an antesthetic before reducing the fracture. This enables the fragments to be got into better position and