I40 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. tinuous silk suture and the usual cyanide dressings are applied; no drainage tube is necessary. A considerable mass of dressing should be used and firmly bandaged around the knee; this will keep the joint sufficiently still without the help of any splint. The patient is then put back to bed and the limb slightly elevated upon a pillow. After-treatment.—The great point in the after-treatment is to restore the movements of the joint as soon as possible, so as to avoid the occur- rence of adhesions; with that end in view we think it well that no splint at all should be employed. Formerly we used to employ splints for about six weeks, but we then found that there was great stiffness which required a considerable amount of patience to overcome; subsequently they were used for only two or three weeks, and latterly we have not employed them at all, and are much better satisfied with the results obtained. The wound heals by first intention, and at the end of a week the dressings are removed, the stitches taken out, and a thin layer of gauze laid along the line of the incision and fixed on with collodion. The leg is then left perfectly free and the pillow removed, while the patient is encouraged to move the limb as he chooses. No restriction is placed on the amount of movement which he may carry out in bed. At the end of a fortnight he is permitted to get up and to stand with the aid of a couple of sticks and from time to time to bend the knee. At the end of three weeks he is allowed to get about with the aid of two sticks, and by the end of six weeks he is usually able to walk without support, and has perfect movement of the joint. There is no reason whatever why the patient should not be allowed to walk about early, relying on the silver wire alone; if it be strong enough and has sufficient hold, it may be trusted to keep the parts properly in apposition until bony union has taken place. The wire gives no trouble afterwards if the flap operation be employed. Formerly, when a vertical incision was employed, the wire sometimes caused a good deal of irritation to the scar and had to be removed. If it be necessary to remove the wire, a small incision should be made over it rather to one side, the wire divided by cutting pliers close to the bone, and then the long end pulled upon until it is extracted. When a very thick wire is used this is sometimes difficult to effect, and in these cases it is best to make a rather longer incision over the wire, cut it just to one side of the twist, and then seizing the ends with a necrosis forceps to straighten the ends as much as possible. Then after cutting off one end close to the bone and applying traction to the other, it can be drawn through without difficulty. The wire should not be ex- tracted until some months after the operation, when it is quite certain that consolidation is complete. Other operations.—Other operative measures have been introduced with the idea that they offer greater safety to the patient; none of them are in our opinion nearly so satisfactory as the one just described. Malgaigne's