THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 202 it would cause a sore. It is well to leave the piece of sponge in the orifice of the sinus, and to insinuate past it a probe which is held in position against the bone. A large incision is then made, diverging on each side of the orifice of the sinus so as to enclose it, and the parts are carefully divided in the direction indicated by the probe, the sinus being included in the dissection, and its whole length removed. ^Vhen the bone is reached, the sinus should not be cut away, but the healthy bone on each side of it is exposed and chiselled through, so that the diseased portion can be removed entire; then, in the case of the rib, any tuberculous material between it and the pleura should be thoroughly scraped, and undiluted carbolic acid applied to it. In the case of sinuses leading down to bones such as a condyle of the femur, the diseased area should be gouged and chiselled away in the manner already described (see p. 199). It is best to stuff the wound with cyanide gauze impregnated with iodoform and allow it to heal from the bottom, or at any rate to wait until the whole surface is covered with healthy granulations and then to bring the edges of the skin together, leaving in a drainage tube for a few days. The part should be kept at rest, and when the disease affects the lower extremity, the pelvis, or the spine, the patient should remain in bed or on a couch which can be wheeled out into the open air. "While healing is taking place, the greatest attention should be paid to good hygiene; plenty of fresh air, nourishing food, and the use of cod- liver oil, are the principal points. Amputation.—We have already referred to the fact that in strumous dactylitis, at any rate without sinuses, amputation can very often be avoided; and as a matter of fact it seldom comes into consideration except in cases where there is joint disease complicating the bone trouble. But it may have to be considered in extensive bone disease with numerous sinuses, where it is impossible to get proper access to the part, and where at the same time the patient is suffering from phthisis or albuminuria, or where the general health is bad. The indications for amputation however will be considered more appropriately in connection with joint disease (see Part IV.).