FRACTURES OF THE SCAPULA. 63 FRACTURES OF THK SCAPULA. VARIETIES.—Fracture of the scapula may be met with in four situations, namely, the body, the neck, the acromion or the coracoid process. Fracture of the body.—The body of the scapula is very rarely fractured, owing no doubt to its extreme mobility and to the protection afforded by the muscles over it. AVhen it does occur it is generally due to direct violence, such as a severe blow upon the back in buffer accidents and the like. It is very commonly complicated by other fractures in the vicinity, such as fracture of the ribs beneath. Fractures of the body of the scapula are not uncommonly comminuted and they occur more frequently in the infra-spinous than in the supra-spinous fossa. Fracture of tte surgical neck.—-This form of fracture is generally produced by a fall upon the out-stretched hand, but is sometimes due to a fall directly upon the point of the shoulder. Fracture of the acromion.—Here the cause is generally direct violence, such as a fall or a downward blow upon the point of the shoulder. Fracture of the coracoid process.—The coracoid process is also some- times detached, but, as it is deeply seated and well protected, this is usually merely an accompaniment of other injuries, such as fracture of the clavicle or the upper ribs, or dislocation of the humerus, and is due to direct injury. SYMPTOMS.—Fracture of the body of the scapula is characterised by extreme pain, and inability to move the shoulder. There is also generally considerable swelling, and crepitus is sometimes felt when the hand is placed over the shoulder and the arm freely moved. In fracture of the acromion process there is inability to raise the arm from the side and the shoulder presents a slightly flattened appearance. The fractured portion is pulled downwards chiefly by the deltoid muscle. In fracture of the coracoid process the detached fragment is often drawn downwards and inwards by the three muscles attached to it; but in some cases where the ligaments between the coracoid process and the clavicle remain intact, little or no deformity is met with. Fracture of the neck of the scapula is one of the injuries which has to be distinguished from dislocation of the shoulder. It is generally accompanied by some flattening of the shoulder, but the arm is lengthened instead of being shortened. The contour of the shoulder is readily restored by pushing up the elbow, and crepitus generally occurs at the same time; as soon as the elbow is again allowed to hang, the deformity is reproduced. When the fracture runs through the surgical neck, the coracoid process also descends with the arm. In some cases, but extremely rarely, fracture takes place through the anatomical neck of the scapula and the coracoid process remains connected with the rest of the bone.