THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. days or a fortnight, sometimes as long as three weeks, and the same arrange- ment as that already described, namely, extension and the use of the long splint (see p. tii), should be employed. Thomases hip splint.—In the meanwhile the greatest care must be taken to ascertain the condition of the circulatory and respiratory organs, and, as soon as it is seen that the patient is beginning to suffer from the effects of the prolonged recumbency, the apparatus must be given up and the patient allowed to resume the erect position and if possible to get about. Two forms of apparatus may be used with this object. In women especially a Thomas's splint will answer the purpose satisfactorily. An ordinar)' Thomas's hip splint with the vertical bar along the back of the limb will prevent friction and its accompanying pain and will enable the patient to get about on crutches or at any rate to stand or to assume the reclining or semi-recumbent position. Plaster spica.—In men the plaster of Paris spica bandage is useful; it is put; on as follows. The patient stands on the sound limb upon a block high enough to raise the affected limb well off the floor. After the perineum and the groins have been thoroughly powdered, a spica of boracic lint or ordinary flannel is applied to the affected limb, reaching from the upper third of the leg to well above the crest of the ilium. Over this the plaster of Paris bandages are applied; for the methods of preparing these see p. 22. The bandages should be 4 inches wide and are immersed in cold water; when thoroughly soaked they are applied loosely and evenly from below upwards. The bandage may be strengthened from time to time by smearing a quantity of the plaster over it with the hand. The weak point in this bandage is always opposite the fold of the groin; this should be strengthened by incorporating in the dressing strips of block tin or thin malleable iron placed across the fold of the groin at right angles to Poupart's- ligament and in a corresponding situation behind. If these be not at hand, strands of tow teased out and steeped in plaster may be used in a similar manner. The apparatus should be sufficiently firm not to crack when weight is borne upon it and as light as is consistent with this. It must be allowed to dry thoroughly before any weight is borne upon it; with this object the patient may lie in the horizontal position before a fire for some hours. It is much more satisfactory to apply the apparatus when the patient is erect, as the weight of the limb then acts as an extending force; if however it has to be put on while the patient lies in bed, extension by weight and pulley or by an assistant must be maintained. When the plaster has set, a boot with a high heel or a patten (see Fig. 41, j9) is worn upon the sound limb and the patient is allowed to get about on crutches, the toes of the affected limb being slung by a long strip of bandage passing round the neck and beneath the instep. The plaster spica is an especially useful splint because it allows the patient to bend the lumbar spine and so he can be propped up well in bed; the risk of lung complications is thus minimised. The casing