4 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. the muscular contraction as to the direction of the force. On the other hand, however, the displacement is kept up in most cases by the cofttraction of the fnusdes, whilst in others it is increased, and may even be entirely caused, by the muscular contraction; this may be the case even when there is little or no displacement at first. The weight of the limb is also an important factor in the production of displacement. This is more especially marked in fractures of the lower extremity, where, if proper support be not given to the foot, the latter rotates outwards, carrying with it the limb below the fracture, and outward rotation of the lower fragment is thus produced. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—AVhen a bone is broken, there is always a certain amount of bruising or tearing of the soft parts about it. The periosteum is almost invariably torn through, although in children it may occasionally remain intact to a large extent; usually, however, it gives way either immediately above or below the actual seat of fracture. This is an important point to remember, because the free ends of the torn periosteum may become interposed between the fractured surfaces, and non- union may result. The muscles attached to the bone in the immediate neighbourhood of the fracture are torn, and, if there be much displace- ment, the fractured ends still further tear up the tissues in the immediate vicinity. The result is a considerable effusion of blood, which coagulates; the ends of the bone, when brought into apposition, are therefore to some extent separated by a layer of clot, whilst they are surrounded by a mass of coagulated blood, in which are entangled torn portions of the periosteum, the muscles, and other soft tissues. In a simple fracture this clot remains, and forms a mould in which the processes of repair take place. REPAIR.—It is unnecessary here to specify the precise steps seen iti a simple fracture undergoing repair. It is sufficient to mention that they consist of the formation of a temporary callus and ossification between the ends of the bones, and subsequent absorption of this callus. In septic cotnpound fractures the process is different; the fractured surfaces and the tissues around become converted into granulation tissue, so that, provided no necrosis or osteo-myelitis occurs, the opposing surfaces of the bone are soon covered by granulations. These granulations coalesce, and ossification takes place in them; the union is thus an example of ossification in membrane. Opinions differ as to the exact process when union takes place ifi aseptic compound fractures. By some it is considered that the process is one of ossification in cartilage, similar to that occurring in simple fractures, whilst others look upon it as an ossification in membrane, as in suppurating compound fractures. The important point of distinction between the repair in simple and compound fractures, however, is that in the latter the external callus, which apparently plays a very important part in fixing the ends of the bones together whilst union is occurring between the broken surfaces, is absent, or, at any rate, is much less marked, and it is highly probable that the delay in union, which is so very common in