136 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. We are therefore strongly of opinion that the operation should be per- formed as soon after the injury as possible. Incision.—After the skin has been purified with especial care,—owing to the coarseness of its structure, which makes it a favourite seat of micro- organisms,-—a flap should be turned down over the / front of the patella. The incision begins about one / inch to one side of this bone, a little below the level of the fracture, and is then carried upwards and curved across the front of the knee about an inch above the upper margin of the patella, and is finally brought down on the opposite side to a point opposite its commencement (see Fig. 53). This flap of skin and superficial fascia is turned down until the lower fragment and the ligamentum patelte are thoroughly exposed. The advantage of this incision over the usual vertical one is great. If a vertical incision be used, the wire employed to unite the fracture will lie immediately beneath the scar, which it is very apt to perforate, or at any rate to irritate consider- ably, when the patient kneels; and, should refracture occur, a vertical scar is apt to give way and result in compound fracture. On the other hand, if a flap be employed, the wire, lying underneath healthy skin, seldom causes any trouble, and, should refracture occur, there is no more reason why the fracture should be compound on the second occasion than on the first. Further, it is well to have the convexity of the flap upwards instead of downwards, because if made down- wards the scar will lie over the tubercle of the tibia, which is the point exposed to pressure when the patient kneels. Clearing the fracture.—During the operation it is Fig. 53.—Incision FOR ^yell to have a constant Stream of weak sublimate Wiring the Patella. solution (1-6000) running over the wound. This is used partly to wash away blood-clot from the joint and partly to make sure that no septic organisms gain access to it. As the flap is turned down and the line of fracture is reached, the rent in the capsule on each side of the bone will be seen, and blood and clots will be pressed out from the joint. After the two fragments have been thoroughly exposed, the fractured surfaces are everted and inspected, and the periosteal layer which is curled over the surface of the fragments (see Fig. 52) is carefully peeled back; it need not be cut away, because it is well afterwards to stitch it over the line of fracture, but it must be carefully removed from contact with the fractured surfaces. Any adherent blood-clot should also be taken away, and if any small loose fragment of bone be present it is also removed.