6 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. extension; the surgeon is thus able to devote all his attention to the proper coaptation of the fractured ends. The extension should be made in the long axis of the bone, and should be steady and gradual. No sudden, jerky movements are allow- able, as they only lead to contractions of the muscles that oppose the reduction; if slowly and steadily stretched, these muscles gradually become tired out, and their resistance ceases. If there be much pain or spasm associated with the attempt at reduction, or if the patient be very muscular, it is well to administer an anaesthetic; the muscular contraction will then be completely overcome, and the fractured ends can be brought into accurate apposition, while the apparatus necessary for maintaining them in position can be carefully and methodically applied before the patient is allowed to come round. With few exceptions, therefore, the administration of an anaesthetic should be insisted upon. It is most im- portant to see that the limb is securely immobilised during the actual administration of the anaesthetic, and special attention must be directed to seeing that no involuntary movements of the Hmb occur; considerable damage may be done to the soft parts, and a simple fracture may be easily converted into a compound one from a neglect of this precaution. This danger must be particularly guarded against in alcoholic subjects; an assistant should be specially told off to fix the limb during the preliminary stages of the administration of the ancesthetic. Obstacles to reduction.—There are various obstacles to reduction which must be borne in mind. The chief are: 1. Spasm of the muscles, which has just been alluded to, and which is readily overcome by the administration of an anaesthetic. 2. The presence of impaction, where one fragment is driven into the other. It may be a matter of considerable difficulty to disentangle the ends, and to bring them into proper position, but in most cases this should be done. There are a few instances, however, in which impaction is of great advantage, and should not be interfered vnth, e.g., in fracture of the neck of the femur in old people. On the other hand, in such frac- tures as Colles's fracture, it is abolutely essential that the impaction should be undone as soon after the injury as possible, because if it be allowed to persist, the bones become welded together very quickly, and the hand is permanently disabled by a bony deformity and a dis- placement of the articular surface that cannot then be remedied without operation. 3. The presence of loose fragments about the fracture may give rise to much difficulty in effecting accurate coaptation. This is particularly the case in fractures in the immediate vicinity of joints; in them the greatest care must be taken to so manipulate the loose fragments, while the patient is under the anaesthetic, as to secure proper coaptation. If this be found impossible—as is particularly likely in fractures in the neigh- bourhood of the elbow joint—the surgeon should not hesitate to expose