264 AMPUTATIONS. corresponding point in the axilla. The flaps should be of equal length and should measure from 4 to 5 inches. It is quite easy to secure the a.xillary artery in the inner flap as the incision is being deepened, and thus no compression of the vessel is required. The Furneaux Jordan method.—Another amputation which may sometimes be performed is similar to Furneaux Jordan's amputation at the hip joint. This may be applicable to cases of long-standing bone disease, especially extensive osteo-myelitis or necrosis. In it the arm is amputated by the circular method at about the level of the insertion of the deltoid, the flaps being made somewhat antero-external and postero- internal ; an incision is then carried vertically upwards upon the inner side of the arm from the junction of the flaps towards the tip of the coracoid process. This incision is deepened down to the bone, the periosteum is peeled off" and the upper extremity of the bone is extracted (see Fig. 85, C). The merit of this operation is that a certain amount of new bone may form from the periosteum left behind ; failing that, there will be a firm fibrous centre to the stump which should be of considerable value in giving support to an artificial limb. There is a possibility of subsequently laying open this bed of periosteum and inserting bone-grafts into it. The cases however in which an operation of this kind can be done are extremely few nowadays as amputation for necrosis is of the greatest rarity; even should it be necessary to open up the whole length of the bone in order to remove the sequestrum, this is preferable to amputation. In acute necrosis moreover it is very questionable whether it is safe to leave the peri- osteum. Therefore, Spence's method is the best where it is practicable, and, failing it, the methods by the deltoid or lateral flaps are those that seem to offer the best prospects of success. REMOVAL OF THE ENTIRE UPPER EXTREMITY. Indications.—In some cases, although very rarely, it becomes necessary to remove the entire upper extremity, that is to say, the upper limb together with the scapula. The cases calling for this severe operation are essentially those of malignant disease of the upper end of the humerus where the scapula has become involved, or malignant disease of the scapula which has spread to the shoulder joint or the parts in the region of the shoulder to such an extent that it is impossible to leave the arm behind. The operation has also been done for extensive recurrence in the axilla and structures about the shoulder after cancer of the breast; but we are strongly of opinion that when breast cancer has advanced so far as to necessitate an operation of this kind the case is hopeless and operation does not offer the least prospect of prolonging life. There are several methods of doing the operation; that described by Berger or some modification of it is perhaps the best. Position.—The patient should be drawn as far as possible to the