CHAPTER X. NECROSIS: PHOSPHORUS NECROSIS. Necrosis of bone follows acute suppurative osteo-myelitis and periostitis, and may also result from tuberculous disease, syphilis, or the action of phosphorus ; the sequestra in these various cases differ in character, as will be presently mentioned. We shall only consider here the necrosis which follows acute osteomyelitis and the form resulting from the action of phosphorus. Characters of a sequestrum. — A sequestrum presents the char- acters of normal bone which has died before any alteration has taken place in it as the result of the inflammation. The part of the bone that dies is usually the compact tissue, and the sequestrum may consist of the whole thickness or only part of this. At first the outer surface is smooth, but if a piece of dead bone remains for a long time in the body, it becomes to a certain extent eroded by the granulation cells. It is po.ssible that the greater part if not the whole of the dead bone might be thus absorbed in cases where septic organisms have never been present, or have died out; in ordinary septic cases, however, the absorption that occurs is quite trivial. Separation of the sequestrum.—Under ordinary circumstances a piece of dead bone must become separated from the living portion, and the process of separation varies in rapidity according to the bone affected, the time required ranging, as has already been said, from six weeks to six months from the commencement of the disease. While separation is going on, condensation of the bone around takes place, and formation of new bone from the periosteum proceeds actively. In the long bones in young persons this new formation of bone may go on to such an extent that the dead portion is enclosed in a shell of bone of great thickness before complete separation has taken place, o^Denings (called " cloacae") leading down to the sequestrum being however left here and there in the new bone. In old people there is rather a stalactitic formation , around the necrosed fragment than a true enclosure by bone. In the