NECROSIS. diet and should be given iron—preferably in the form of Blaud's capsules, " 10. grains three times a day—and if possible they should be sent to the country. If unable to walk they should be wheeled out in the open air as much as possible. In all cases of long continued suppuration after necrosis it is well to examine the urine frequently for albumen; when once the necrosed fragment has been removed, the albuminuria, which is usually due to a certain amount of amyloid degeneration, will commonly pass off as the wound heals. Amputation.—The foregoing refers to the treatment of sequestra in young people. In old people, say over fifty or sixty, whether the sequestrum be the result of a compound fracture, of an amputation, or of some acute disease in early life, the problem is somewhat different, because the chances are that proper obliteration of the cavity will not occur after removal of the sequestrum ; it is very important for the old to get well as soon as possible. Hence it seems to us that in people of the age we have mentioned it is best to amputate the limb when the necrosis is extensive or affects the lower extremity. Attempts to get the cavity to fill up after removal of the sequestrum are extremely liable to end in disappointment; and it must not be forgotten that the operation of sequestrotomy is often accompanied by considerable shock, and—when a tourniquet is not used—by considerable loss of blood. In people of an advanced age this may lead to very serious consequences. The shock and the after-effects of the operation are certainly more severe after chiselling the bone to remove a sequestrum than' after amputation, so that, both from the point of view of rapid healing and of the safety of the patient, amputation is the better practice. A further point of importance is the condition of the kidneys. In prolonged suppuration from an old sequestrum which has remained iti situ for many years, severe albuminuria is often present, and in such cases it is safer to amputate than to remove the sequestrum. QUIET NECROSIS.—Sir James Paget described a condition under the name of " quiet necrosis," in which death of portions of bone occurs without any violent inflammation and without the presence of sinuses. These cases are extremely rare and it is probable that a good many of them are really cases of tuberculous disease of the bone; nevertheless we have met with a case where on chiselling away the thickened bone, a sequestrum was found lying in the middle of it, without any suppuration around. The history given was that there had been an inflammatory attack in front of the elbow joint, over the upper end of the radius, and that after the abscess healed, the radius began to enlarge and had attained a great size when the operation was performed. The bone was opened up on the view that the case was simply chronic osteo-myelitis, but, in doing so, a sequestrum was found lying in the midst of granulation tissue. Treatment.—The only interest in the condition from the point of view of treatment is to remember that when thickened bone resulting from PT. III. N