GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 235 amputation done for injury where profound shock is present before the operation is done. In these cases, in amputations through the hip joint, and in those who are extremely feeble as the result of long standing disease, however, shock must be carefully guarded against. The amputating knife.—The choice of the amputating knife is of some importance. It should not be too long, as otherwise it is difficult to mark out the flaps and to dissect them up firmly and accurately. When the amputation is to be done by cutting the flaps from without inwards, as is done nowadays, the knife chosen should not be more than six inches long. This gives the surgeon sufficient control over the blade, while at the same time it enables him to divide the muscles by broad sweeps of the knife. Should however the amputation be performed by a circular division of the muscle, or by flaps cut by transfixion, it will be necessary to employ a knife which is nearly a quarter as long again as the diameter of the limb at the point of division of the bone. Cutting the flaps.—In amputating, the surgeon should stand on the patient's right of the limb to be removed, and the first points for decision are the spot at which the bone is to be divided and the length and position of the flaps. The directions for ascertaining the length of the flaps have already been given (see p. 230). It is well to cut the flaps from without inwards rather than to employ the transfixion method, which was formerly much in vogue on account of its greater rapidity. The great advantage of cutting the flaps from without inwards is that the surgeon is thereby enabled to gauge the relative amount of skin and muscle divided much more easily and accurately; the extra time con- sumed in the operation is trivial and of no practical importance. Shape, of the flaps.—The shape of the flaps is of great importance ; they should be practically square, with merely the corners rounded off". The common fault with beginners is to make the flaps too pointed; that is to say, the line of incision is made to approach the middle line almost from the starting-point, whereas in order to get a satisfactory covering for the 'stump, it is necessary to carry the incision almost vertically down, parallel to the long axis of the limb, almost to the lower border of the flap. About an inch from this point it should curve slightly towards the middle line and then run transversely across the limb to a corre- sponding point on the opposite side, when after a slight curve upwards it should be carried almost vertically up to a point opposite to that from which it started. In order to prevent mistakes at a later stage it is well, especially for a beginner, to proceed to mark out the posterior flap before proceeding to dissect up the anterior one. This flap should be in most cases about a third the length of the anterior one, and is made by drawing the knife transversely across the back of the limb, just rounding off the flap slightly where this incision joins the lateral vertical ones. Raising the flaps. -In cutting the flaps the edge of the knife must always be held strictly at right angles to the surface of the skin, as