77 FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. FRACTURES OF THE LOWER END OF THE HUMERUS. VARIETIES.—Fractures in this situation are fairly common and are generally produced by indirect violence, such as falls upon the out-stretched hand. They may also occur from direct violence and then usually result from falls upon the elbow. These injuries are of great importance, chiefly because they are extremely likely to lead to considerable interference with the movements of the elbow joint, and it depends largely on the method of treatment adopted whether the patient be left with a stiff elbow or a useful one. The following are the chief fractures which occur in this region : (1) Supra-condyloid fracture.—This is perhaps the most common of the fractures about the lower end of the bone. The fracture runs across the humerus just above the joint; its line may be somewhat irregular but it is always more or less oblique, usually from above downwards and forwards. The fore-arm and elbow are carried upwards and backwards as the result of the force, and the lower fragment goes with them, being drawn up behind so that the lower end of the shaft of the humerus comes to lie in front of the elbow, generally more or less closely in contact with the ulna. The lower fragment is also bent somewhat forwards. The result is that the fracture cannot be properly reduced by traction on the fore-arm owing to the flexion of the lower fragment, and unless reduction be eff"ected, the movements of the elbow joint are greatly interfered with; some power of extension may be retained, but flexion beyond or even up to a right angle is practically lost. (2) Separation of the lower epiphysis.—In young subjects this may take the place of the fracture just described. These cases are rarely simple separations of the epiphysis, as usually the line of fracture, like the one just mentioned, extends obliquely upwards and backwards. The dis- placement is practically the same as that of the supra-condyloid fracture. (3) T-shaped fracture into the joint.—It sometimes happens after severe injuries that, in addition to the supra-condyloid fracture just described, there is also a vertical fracture of the lower fragment into the joint,—an addition generally spoken of as a T-shaped fracture of the lower end of. the humerus. The direction of this vertical fracture varies; sometimes it is more or less oblique but usually it enters the joint between the two condyles. This fracture is of the highest practical importance, because in it we ■ have to do with a comminuted fracture of the lower end of the humerus, and in it there is not only backward displacement of the fragments as a whole, l)ut the two portions into which the lower fragment is split up are displaced on one another and the consequence is that little or no movement in the elbow joint is likely to result, except where the most perfect reduction has been obtained and maintained. The conformation of the elbow joint is