190 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. weak solution of hydrochloric acid, and placed in 1-20 carbolic acid till it is required for use. When it can be got, decalcified cancellous bone is better than the compact tissue; it is lighter and more porous, and thus forms a better supporting medium. (5) Some surgeons have filled up the cavity with plaster of Paris, and report successful results from its use. The cavity must, of course, first be rendered aseptic, and the plaster of Paris should be baked at a high tem- perature, so as to destroy any organisms in it, and should be mixed with I-20 or 1-40 carbolic acid solution instead of with water. The cavity is then filled up with the liquid plaster. We have only tried this plan in one case, but unfortunately we did not there succeed in getting rid of the sepsis, so that the plaster of Paris had to be removed. Although success- ful cases are reported, it must be remembered that new tissue cannot spread into the plaster, which must therefore remain as a hard foreign body for the rest of the patient's life. With the other methods of treatment already mentioned, organisation occurs in the material filling up the cavity and new tissue is formed in place of it. We cannot therefore recommend this plan in preference to the others. The decalcified bone method.—Of the methods mentioned above probably the best is to fill up the cavity with decalcified bone; we shall therefore describe this method in detail, the description being of course applicable to the other methods, such as the use of catgut, sponge or blood-clot alone. The first essential is that the wound should be aseptic, and we have already described the method employed with this object; the success or failure of this will be quite evident on the fourth or fifth day after the operation. An anaesthetic is hardly necessary unless it be for the purpose of putting in the stitches, but until this point is reached it is unnecessary to administer one, and cocaine will serve for the stitches. The dressing is removed, the skin again thoroughly purified in case any organisms should have found their way under the dressing, and the stuffing is taken out. As the stuffing adheres firmly to the tissues and the bone in aseptic cases, some oozing of blood occurs ; this, on the whole, is very desirable, because it is required to fill up the interstices between the bone intro- duced and the walls of the cavity. Indeed, if there be no bleeding, it may be necessary to promote it by scarifying the soft parts. The decalcified bone is then taken out of the 1-40 carbolic solution and placed in the cavity in small fragments pretty close together, until the entire cavity is filled up to the level of the periosteum. After sufficient blood has been poured out, the periosteum is brought together by catgut sutures, as close as it will come over the cavity; as a rule, there is little difficulty in this, as the periosteum is easily recognisable after so short a time as four or five days. It is well also to introduce two or three catgut stitches between the muscles if the wound be deep; the skin is closed with a continuous silk suture. If there be very free oozing of blood, it is well to insert a small drainage tube at the lower end of the wound for the