230 AMPUTATIONS. doing this, and, therefore, whenever the flap method is employed, the flaps should always be cut longer than is necessary to just cover the ends of the bone. If no retraction had to be taken into considera- tion, it is obvious that the combined length of the two flaps should be equal to the diameter of the limb at the point of section of the bone, but as a matter of practice it is found that if the flaps be made this length they will provide insufficient covering on account of the retraction we have just alluded to. In order to allow for this therefore they should be cut at least one-third longer than the diameter of the limb at the point of section of the bone. It was formerly the custom to fashion the flaps even longer than this, with the object of avoiding even the slightest tension upon the stitches; at the present time, however, when we are sure of obtaining union by first intention, a slight amount Fig. 71.—How to Estimate the Length of the Flaps in Ami'UTAting. The transverse diameter of the limb at the point where the bone is to be sawn is ascertained. This is position n. Keeping the thumb in its original position, and maintaining the same distance between it and the forefinger, the hand is rotated into position i, which thus enables the length of the diameter of the limb to be marked along the thigh. This is for an amputation by lateral flaps, and the length of each flap would therefore be two- thirds of this measurement. of Stretching of the skin flap is of no consequence, while on the other hand it is important to avoid a long dependent bag of skin at the end of the stump, in which blood and serum may easily accumulate and interfere with union. Another point of great importance nowadays is that unduly long flaps entail an unnecessarily high division of bone. At the same time, if the beginner be in any doubt as to the length of his flaps, it is better to cut them too long than too short. It is a perfectly simple matter to cut them down afterwards, and this is far better than the fault so often committed of cutting the'flaps too short and of being obliged therefore to take away more bone in order to enable them to come together. The point of bone section should always be the fixed point. I/ozv to estimate the length of the flaps.—The length of the flap may be roughly estimated by grasping the limb at the point where it is pro- posed to divide the bone without compressing the soft parts at all ; if antero-posterior flaps are to be made, the antero-posterior diameter of