237 GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. otherwise be left beneath tlie skin flap, to saw the projecting portion off obliquely so as to round off the cut end (see Fig. 73). Securing the vessels.—\Vhen the limb has been removed, the flaps are drawn down in position to see roughly if they are of sufficient length, and if this inspection be satisfactory the surgeon proceeds at once to pick up the main vessels. The larger of these are of course readily recognized both by their anatomical situation and by their appearance. The large veins should be picked up and ligatured as well as the arteries. The best material for ligature is catgut sufficiently strong to allow the knot to be firmly tightened, but not too coarse. After the main vessels have been tied, the surgeon may clamp a few of the others before the tourniquet is removed. The larger of these are usually found amongst the muscles, and their situation can often be determined by squeezing the latter and thus causing a drop of blood to exude from the cut end of the vessel. When this has been done, an assistant should be told off to compress the main artery of the limb whilst the tourniquet is removed, and it is a good plan to fold one of the flaps firmly over a large hot Fig. 73.—Methods of Rounding Off the End of the Bone in Amputations. A shows the direction of the saw-cut .ind the appearance of the bone-end after the sharp tibial crest has been s.iwn off. B shows the result after treating the linea aspera of the femur in a similar manner. sponge SO as to stop the oozing in it whilst the bleeding points are being picked up in the other flap. Should it be found that there are several largish vessels bleeding, the assistant can readily compress the main vessel from time to time, and by proceeding in this way very little blood indeed need be lost. While the vessels are being picked up, the limb should be raised into the vertical position. It is well to tie all the clamped vessels with fine catgut. No doubt many of them would stop oozing after having been clamped for a little while, but on the whole considerable time is saved by tying them all and there is less ri.sk of the flaps subsequently becoming separated by blood-clot. After the vessels have been tied, the main nerves should be identified, seized with forceps, pulled down and cut short, and the same may be done with any tendons present in the stump. Stitching- up the flaps.—After the bleeding has been arrested, the