FRACTURES OF BOTH BONES OF THE LEG. 165 vexity backwards, extending well beyond the inner border of the tibia. This flap should be turned forwards until the whole breadth of the inner surface of the tibia is displayed. AVhen the seat of fracture has thus been exposed, it should be carefully examined, and all blood-clot, small fragments of bone, or portions of periosteum or muscle that may have got in between the fractured ends, should be removed. The broken ends are then united by means of two plated screws introduced, one vertically above the other (see p. 51). To facilitate the introduction of these screws, a special form of forceps which holds the fractured ends in accurate apposition whilst the bone is being bored and the screws introduced has been devised (see Fig. 17). The fracture of the fibula does not require any attention. The wound is then stitched up and dressings applied with wire splints incor- porated in them, the foot being fixed at right angles and the knee being also enclosed in the splint. The further treatment is the same as that after any operation for fracture. When the wound has healed, the dressing is removed and a Croft's splint applied, which must not be left off until union has occurred. As in most cases of operation after fracture, it will be necessary to allow a somewhat long period to elapse before the patient is permitted to bear weight on the foot, as union is somewhat slower than in fractures not operated upon. Massage should be employed after the first three weeks so as to prevent as far as possible the oedema which is otherwise likely to occur when the patient is allowed to walk. Apart from the question of the displacement of the fragments, it may be necessary in some of these cases to cut down upon the fracture when the surgeon cannot satisfy himself that the bony surfaces are properly in contact. It is not uncommon for the ends of the bones, especially the upper end of the lower fragment, to perforate the muscle and become entangled in it and thus a certain amount of muscular tissue is interposed between the ends of the bones, and proper union is prevented. In other cases the fracture may be somewhat comminuted, and a detached portion of bone may become so displaced between the fragments that they are prevented from coming into proper apposition. If when reducing the fracture therefore, no proper crepitus be found (which would show that there is something interposed between the ends of the bone), or if it be impossible to reduce the fracture properly, there is sufficient reason for cutting down upon the fragments and removing the obstacle; of course if this be done, it is well to take advantage of the opportunity to fix the fragments firmly together by pegs, screws or wires, as the occasion may seem to demand. When the injury has resulted from direct violence it is not usuall}- necessary to operate, for the displacement is not so marked; operation will only be called for when the bone is comminuted and some detached portion prevents the fracture being properly set. In all these cases a skiagram will be of great assistance. Compound fracture.—Compound fractures of both bones of the leg *