236 AMPUTATIONS. otherwise the end of the flap will be bevelled, and an imperfectly nourished edge will be left which may lose its vitality. The incisions marking out the flaps should extend through the skin, subcutaneous tissue and deep fascia; the latter must always be taken up with the skin as it contains the main blood supply of Ihe superficial structures. The skin flap is then gradually raised from its free edge. For the first two inches nothing but the deep fascia and the structures above it are raised, but after that the knife is made to gradually and obliquely divide the muscles so that more and more of this structure is taken up as the flap progresses, until as its base is reached everything is being peeled off right down to the bone (see Fig. 70). When the raising of the anterior flap is complete, it is held out of the way by an assistant whilst the limb is elevated and the • posterior flap is raised from without inwards in a similar manner. Some authorities recommend that the latter should be cut by transfixion. This is no doubt more rapidly and more easily done, but it has the objection that there is no projecting margin of skin beyond the muscles, and that therefore there may be some difficulty in stitching up the stump. The only situation in which transfixion may be advantageously employed is in regions such as the lower third of the thigh or the fore-arm, where the structures divided by transfixion are mainly tendinous. As a general rule it may be said that a far neater and more satisfactory stump is obtained by the slightly slower but much more careful method of cutting both flaps from without inwards. Sawing the bone.—After the flaps have been raised down to the bone they are firmly retracted by an assistant, and a succession of circular sweeps is made around the bone dividing the periosteum. A cuff of periosteum (see p. 227) may now be raised if the operator desires; as a rule this is unnecessary. The knife is then laid aside, the heel of the saw—which should have fine teeth—is pressed firmly over the bone and a groove cut by drawing the saw towards the operator from the heel to the point. The saw may be steadied while the groove is being cut by pressing the tip of the left thumb or forefinger upon the bone just above the proposed line of section; the blade of the saw is then pressed . against this fixed point and cannot slip upwards. The bone is sawn through by light and rapid sweeps, the assistant taking special care to hold the limb absolutely horizontal. This is a somewhat difficult task ; the assistant is apt on the one hand to push the limb up, in w'hich case the saw becomes locked, while on the other, if reproved for doing this, he is apt to unduly depress it, so that after the saw has divided the greater part of the bone the remainder snaps off. To assist in maintaining the horizontal position of the limb, the operator should grasp the bone just above the point of division. Any sharp spicules of bone left should be removed by a pair of cutting pliers applied with the flat side against the portion of the bone remaining. It is very useful also in some cases,—as in the tibia,—where the bone is subcutaneous and a sharp edge would