AMPUTATIONS OF THE FOOT. 279 detached; the union is completed by an ordinary continuous suture. The usual antiseptic dressings are then applied, the limb is placed upon a posterior straight splint with a special pad behind the heel flap so as to support it and press it forwards. When the case is aseptic the drainage tube may be removed in three or four days. After-treatment.—In this amputation the treatment does not by any means cease when the wound has healed, because owing to the weight of the flap there is a considerable tendency for it to drag backwards and to bring the scar over the front of the lower end of the bones; this would lead to a tender scar interfering greatly with walking. The stump must therefore be carefully bandaged as already described (see p. 240) so as to pull forward and. fix the heel flap; it is well after healing is complete to impregnate the bandage thus applied with starch so that it shall not slip, and to carry it well up the leg so as to enclose the stump in a stiff unyielding case. The patient can usually begin to bear weight upon the stump in from six to eight weeks; before that time he can get about wearing a peg-leg. Pirogoff's amputation.Syme'?, amputation has been modified by Pirogofl", who saws obliquely through the os calcis; the posterior portion of the bone and the skin over it are left behind. The operation is however unsuitable for any but a few rare cases. It is very troublesome to perform, and, as a matter of fact, the results it yields are not materially better than those obtained from Syme's amputation, whilst instrument makers rather object to it on account of the greater difficulty experienced in fitting the artificial foot. We shall therefore not describe the operation. Amputation throug'h the ankle by an internal flap.—In some cases—particularly of tuberculous disease of the ankle joint—Syme's amputation may with advantage be abandoned in favour of a somewhat similar one in which the posterior is replaced by an internal flap On the whole, this operation is inferior to Syme's, because the skin in this situation is not so fitted for bearing pressure as is that over the back of the heel; nevertheless it gives a very good result, as the skin after a time becomes thickened and capable of bearing pressure. The incision com- mences at the tip of the external malleolus and runs across the front of the ankle with a slight downward curve until it reaches the astragalo-scaphoid joint; from this point it passes straight on to about the centre of the sole, whence it turns backwards, passing over the centre of the heel to the level of the upper surface of the os calcis; it is then carried round the outer side of the ankle to join the commencement of the incision beneath the external malleolus (see Fig. 93). This large internal flap is raised care- fully from the bone with which the edge of the knife is kept in contact throughout. The raising of the flap has to be effected with the greatest circumspection, as its nutrition is essentially derived from the posterior tibial artery, and therefore any injury to that vessel higher up than the point of section in the incision will materially damage it. When the ankle joint has been exposed, the foot is disarticulated and the lower ends of the tibia and fibula