AMPUTATIONS. 2k6 and all the soft parts are turned up from the front of the carpus. The two upper extremities of the palmar flap are then joined across the back of the wrist by a slightly curved incision with its convexity downwards. This gives a short skin flap which is raised and turned back, and the ligaments of the wrist joint are then divided and the wrist and hand re- moved. The palmar flap when turned up forms a fleshy and sensitive pad covering the ends of the bones of the fore-arm. A drainage tube is generally required for the cases in which a long anterior flap has been made; as a rule it is not called for in the modified circular form. The limb should be placed upon an internal rectangular splint with the fore-arm in a position midway between pronation and supination. The splint will require careful padding to keep the stump free from pressure, and after a fortnight the wound will be found healed and the splints and dressings may be left off. AMPUTATION THROUGH THE FORE-ARM. This is the form of amputation that is perhaps most commonly required for tuberculous disease of the wrist joint. In this affection it may sometimes be possible to save more of the arm by amputating through the joint itself and then sawing off or gouging out the surfaces of the radio-ulnar articulation; but as a rule it is advisable to divide the bones above the joint. Modified circular method.—In the fore-arm the best amputation is the modified circular form with equal anterior and posterior flaps. The scar lies directly over the end of the bones, which is the point of least pressure, because the pressure exerted by an artificial limb upon the stump must necessarily fall either upon its anterior or its posterior aspect and not upon the end of it, as is the case in the lower extremity. A further advantage of this modified circular operation is that the bones may be divided on a lower level than by any other operation; the flaps being antero-posterior and of equal length seldom have to be more than an inch or an inch and a half long, and thus the amputation can be performed close to the seat of disease and yet a sufficient covering for the bones can be obtained. This gives the patient the longest possible stump—a point of great importance in the adaptation of an artificial limb. In some cases of injury it may be possible by employing either a long anterior or a long posterior flap or irregular flaps, to divide the bone on a lower level than would be necessary for equal antero- posterior flaps. If this be the case the latter method should be abandoned in order to secure a longer stump. Every inch that can be saved is of the greatest value. The modified circular amputation has already been described (see p. 225). The limb should be abducted and fully supinated and the surgeon, standing to the patient's right of the limb, marks the proposed point of division of the bones by placing the forefinger and thumb of his left hand upon them, one on either side of the limb. The knife is then entered about half an inch be-