REMOV'AL OF THE ENTIRE UPPER EXTREMITY. 265 edge of the table, so that the shoulder on the affected side projects beyond its edge, and the thorax should be well raised by sandbags. The first step in the operation consists in dividing the clavicle and ligaturing the subclavian vessels. Preliminary incision for ligature of subclavian vessels.—An incision is made along the upper border of the clavicle, commencing at the posterior edge of the sterno-mastoid, and terminating at the outer end of the bone. The incision is carried down to the bone and if the periosteum be healthy, it may be separated by a rugine; the bone is then carefully cleared below and divided at the junction of the two curves either with a saw or with cutting pliers. The outer end of the clavicle is seized and raised by lion forceps, whilst the periosteum and tissues beneath it are stripped off. The outer end of the bone can then either be disarticulated from the scapula—which is probably the best, plan—or it may be snipped across with cutting pliers just short of the articulation. This exposes the axillary vessels and the brachial plexus, which are only covered by the subclavius muscle, several layers of the fascia, and the peri- osteum of the clavicle. These structures are divided and separated until the artery and vein are seen lying over the first rib. Both vessels are then tied separately in two places and divided between the ligatures. It is well to ligature and divide the artery before the vein is similarly treated, as by. doing so the blood in the limb may be to some extent preserved if the extremity be raised after division of the artery so as to allow the blood to flow back through the vein. This has the additional advantage that the vein will then cease to be distended with blood and will therefore be smaller, more easily manipulated, and not so likely to get torn. However in some cases the vein may be very large and may overlap the artery to such an extent that it may be necessary to tie it first. The divided ends of both vessels are separated upwards and downwards by the handle of the knife, and then the various portions of the brachial plexus should also be divided and the lower ends stripped downwards. Before completing this stage of the operation it is well to insert the handle of the knife or the finger beneath the deep fascia of the neck and to separate the tissues to a moderate extent, lifting them up and searching for and if possible ligaturing the supra-scapular and the posterior scapular arteries; the former is usually readily found and can be ligatured at once; the latter may also be identified, but it is not worth while spending time in the search. Baising the anterior flap.—The next step is to mark out the incisions for the removal of the extremity ; these form practically an oval incision including the shoulder and part of the scapula. An assistant abducts the arm to a right angle and pulls the trunk well over so that the shoulder projects free of the table and then the front portion of the incision is marked out. From the centre of the incision over the clavicle the knife should be carried downwards with an outward curve over the coracoid process to the junction of the anterior fold of the axilla with the arm. It