i88 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. periosteum, are divided freely right down to the bone, and then the periosteum is' peeled off with a rugine as freely as may be necessary. If the opening in the bone be exposed in the wound, the new bone is chipped away with a gouge and hammer, beginning at this opening, but no attempt should be made to remove the sequestrum until it has been exposed throughout its whole length. If an attempt be made to take it away through a small opening, it is sure to break, and then fragments are apt to be left behin'd; if this happens the pieces may be difficult to find afterwards, and if left behind they will prevent the wound from healing. If, on account of the anatomical relations of the part, the area of bone exposed be not that in which the cloacae are present, the exposed portion should nevertheless be chiselled away until the cavity in which the sequestrum is lying is reached, and then the opening should be enlarged to whatever extent may be necessary. The most difficult cases are those in which the necrosis has involved a considerable segment of the bone and the sequestra are curved in shape, so that a single opening in the bone will not suffice for their removal. It may then be necessary to make an incision on the opposite side of the limb and chip away bone there, and then possibly to break the sequestrum in two and remove part through the one incision and part through the other. In any case the important points are not to make too small an opening in the bone, to obtain free access to the cavity, and to remove the sequestrum in one piece if possible. After the sequestrum and the chips of bone which have resulted from the chiselling have been removed, the granulation tissue in the interior of the cavity is thoroughly scraped away. In doing this, care must be taken to ascertain that no other sequestrum is present, and that the whole area has been completely cleared out. As these cases are septic, it is advisable afterwards to sponge out the whole cavity thoroughly with undiluted carbolic acid, and to excise any sinus in the soft parts. It is well after- wards to stuff the hole in the bone with cyanide gauze sprinkled with iodoform; this should be done before the elastic bandage is removed, and firmly enough to stop the oozing. The ordinary cyanide gauze dressings and salicylic wool are then applied outside, and the limb placed on a splint which fixes the neighbouring joints. After-treatment.—The further treatment of the cavity left after removal of the sequestrum depends to a great extent on whetl\er or not the surgeon has been able to thoroughly disinfect the cavity. In any case the stuffing should be left in for two or three days. As there will generally be considerable oozing, it is well to change the outer layers of the dressing on the day after the operation ; but it is not necessary on this occasion to attempt to remove any of the stuffing unless there be signs of sepsis. It suffices to wash the wound and the surface of the packing with 1-2000 sublimate solution, and then to apply another antiseptic dressing of cyanide gauze and salicylic wool; the limb is of course replaced