THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 12 are very comfortable and may be adjusted to any particular case rapidly and satisfactorily. In preparing them, a pattern should first of all be cut out in brown paper and upon this the material employed should be shaped. Gtttta- percha may be readily cut with stout scissors after softening in warm Fk;. 2.—Wire-Netting Si-lint. The illustration shows the method ofincorpor.-iting these splints with the dressing. A few layers of gauze are placed directly over the wound, and then a large sheet of the gauze is wrapped around the limb ; outside this the wire-netting is moulded to the limb, and when this has been done, the gauze is turned down over the free edges of the splint, and more dressing is added over the region of the wound outside the netting. In the figure above, two lateral splinls of this netting are being applied. water. ^Vhen cut to the pattern, the splint is immersed in boiling water; before applying it to the limb, the latter should be covered by a layer of wool or a thick folded bath-towel, as otherwise the patient might be burnt. The guttapercha is taken out of the boiling water with a pair of forceps, laid on a warm dry towel, another towel is placed over it and the excess of moisture thus removed as quickly as possible, and then the soft gutta- percha is rapidly applied to the part, moulded round the limb and secured by a quickly applied bandage. The splint will harden in a few minutes and it and the temporary padding can then be removed and the permanent padding carefully arranged so that the splint does not exercise undue pres- sure anywhere, while at the same time it gets a thoroughly good hold. Poroplastic material may be cut with a sharp knife with ease if the latter be held obliquely at about an angle of 45°; if the knife be held at right angles it will be found extremely difficult to cut. When cut out, the splint is best softened by holding it before a fierce fire or by putting it in a steam steriliser for a short time. The material softened in this way does not set so quickly and gives more time for its careful adaptation to the limb. Leather can be softened by immersion in vinegar or a solution of acetic acid. Splints made of guttapercha or of leather should be perforated with holes, which should be punched from within outwards, in order to allow of the escape of perspiration from beneath. Padding of splints.—As has already been said, the most careful attention must be paid to the padding of splints. In hospitals, the nurse in her leisure