AMPUTATION ABOUT THE KNEE-JOINT. 287 of the femur are to be divided on the one side of the joint, carrying the incision with its convexity downwards to a point well below the patella, bringing it across the front of the limb and up to a corresponding point upon the opposite side (see Fig. 96, C); this flap when raised should contain the patella. After it has been reflected to the point of section of the condyles, a transfixion knife is passed through behind, close to the bone at that spot, and by a steady sweeping cut the soft parts and skin are divided at right angles to the long axis of the bone, so that no posterior flap is made. The bone is then cleared at the proposed point of division, and the condyles removed by the saw applied at right angles to the long axis of the limb. The Stokes-Gritti amputation.—The object of sawing the femur through the condyles is to furnish the patient with a broad flat surface upon which pressure may be borne. For the better accomplishment of this object it has been proposed to saw off the cartilaginous surface of the patella and to apply the cut surface thus formed directly to the cut surfaces of the femoral condyles. This procedure is known by the name of the Stokes-Gritti operation, but it does not present any advantages which counterbalance the increased time and patience required for its proper performance. It is a matter of considerable difficulty to cut off the cartilaginous surface of the patella completely and to apply it accurately to the sawn surface of the femur, and it is often very difficult, after this has been done satisfactorily, to secure it accurately in position, and to prevent it being tilted away from the bone by the pull of the quadriceps extensor muscle. For these reasons we cannot recommend the operation and shall therefore not describe it. Its results are in no way better than those of the amputations already described. AMPUTATIONS THROUGH THE SHAFT OF THE FEiMUR. Amputation may be practised anywhere through the shaft of the femur; the usual situation is either at or below the middle of the bone, amputa- tion in the lower third being especially suitable for tuberculous disease of the knee-joint. In this situation the best operation is by means of antero-posterior flaps, but lateral flaps may be employed when the circumstances of the case are such that there is not sufficient sound skin available for an anterior one. A very good result may also be obtained by antero-external and postero-mternal flaps. It should be remembered in amputating through the femur that it is not necessary to sacrifice bone in order to insure the cicatrix being out of the way of its divided end, because very little weight, if any, is borne upon the end of the stump when an artificial Hmb is fitted, as this takes its support mainly from the pelvis. The length of the femur left is of the greatest importance; the function of the stump is not to carry weight but merely to form a lever to work the artificial limb, and there-