247 AMPUTATIONS OF THE FINGERS. amputation is done above the middle of the phalanx a long posterior flap with a short anterior one will usually give a better result. It is in amputa- tions above the middle of the second phalanx that the stump left is likely to be useless unless special care be taken to preserve the action of the tendons,—especially the flexors,—upon it. Fixation of tendons to the stump.—After the amputation has been completed, the flexor tendons should be stitched to the cut end of the sheath, or failing that, to the periosteum; in order to facilitate this, care should be taken to divide the flexor tendons on a somewhat lower level than that of the. bone section. They can as a general rule be secured by catch forceps before they are divided; should they escape and retract up their sheath, they can be protruded by flexing all the fingers and squeezing the palm downwards. They should be stitched with fine catgut either to the edge of the sheath or to the periosteum on the front of the bone. The tendons thus acquire an intimate connection with the bone, and flexion of the stump of the finger is preserved. It is as a rule not so easy to stitch the extensor tendon in a similar manner, but in order to get the best possible result it is well to do so. AMPUTATION THROUGH THE FIRST PHALANX.—If the tendons be sutured in this manner, even a small portion of the first phalanx may be retained with advantage to the patient. Certainly when the entire phalanx can be saved, this should be done, instead of sacrificing it by amputating at the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation as used to be recom- mended. In the index and little fingers it is of great importance to save even the smallest portion of the first phalanx. AMPUTATION AT THE METACARPO-PHALANGEAL JOINT. —This operation is more frequently performed than is amputation through the finger itself, and is required for severe cases of whitlow, for bad crushes of the finger and particularly for tuberculous disease either in the form of strumous dactylitis or tuberculous joint mischief. Importance of retaining the metacarpal bone.—In amputating in this situation it is always well, if the circumstances of the case permit, to avoid interfering with the head of the metacarpal bone. It is true that the removal of a finger, particularly if it be the ring or middle finger, leaves a somewhat unsightly gap in the hand, but nevertheless the limb thus left is much more useful than when the head of the metacarpal is removed. At the same time the latter procedure no doubt gives a better appearance to the hand and leaves little trace of the operation, but the power of the grasp and the general utility of the hand are considerably diminished. Certainly in men, and particularly in those who have to earn their living by manual labour, the metacarpal bone even of the index or the little finger should be left untouched. In those however who are not so situated and to whom the sightliness of the hand is of more importance than its strength, the head of the metacarpal bone may be removed, so as to avoid attracting attention to the gap between the fingers.