i8o THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. Resection of portions of the miaffected bone.—An alternative procedure is to allow the bone to grow and the deformity to take its course, and then to excise portions of the growing bone, so as to bring the foot or hand straight again. In the example just mentioned, enough bone might be taken from the ulna after growth was complete to enable the hand to come into proper position. The choice between these procedures will be decided essentially by the age of the patient when first attacked by the disease, that is, it depends upon the amount of growth which has yet to take place and therefore upon the degree of deformity likely to ensue. If, for example, several years must elapse between the occurrence of the disease and the completion of growth, the chances of getting a useful limb by taking out portions of the unaffected bone are comparative slight if operation be delayed until growth is complete, because by that time the joint surfaces will have so altered and accommodated themselves to their new positions that they cannot be readily righted, and further, the tendons, muscles, and other structures will all have become altered in accordance with the deformity. Hence, if this second method be preferred, it should be employed long before the bone has attained its full growth, and should be repeated if necessary. This plan is most likely to be of use in the lower end of the fore-arm ; the lower epiphysis of the ulna has but little share in the growth of the bone, and it is therefore no advantage to destroy it. The surgeon must therefore content himself with excising a portion of the ulna com- paratively early (within two or three years after the occurrence of the disease), so as to allow the hand to come straight; should vicious growth again occur, the operation may be repeated. The bone section should be oblique and the cut surfaces should be wired together; otherwise the hand is apt to resume its vicious position and an interval will be left between the bones which will lead to non-union. Amputation.—When the disease occurs in very young children, the question of amputation may have to be considered; it must depend upon the prospects of obtaining a useful limb, which, in its turn, will depend upon the amount of destruction of the epiphyseal cartilage, and the share that the latter plays in the growth of the particular bone. (4) Of acute suppurative osteitis accompanied by joint sup- puration. —This is a very grave condition which often ends fatally; it is a combination of two very serious affections—osteo-myelitis and acute suppurative arthritis. Amputation.—In the majority of these cases the first thing to be con- sidered is the advisability of amputation, and if the patient be seen before he has passed into the septiccemic stage and the case has thus become hopeless, amputation immediately above the affected joint is the best treatment. Unless the osteo-myelitis has spread into the bone above, there is no need to amputate at any great distance beyond the joint affected. Amputation is very often the best treatment, because, even if the limb