CHAPTER VII. FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. Fracture of the patella is an injury of common occurrence and of great importance. The line of fracture may be either transverse, longitudinal, or starred; the most frequent form is the tra?isverse fracture, which usually results from violent muscular action, as when an attempt is made to recover the balance. The knee is bent and the quadriceps extensor is thrown into such violent contraction that the patella is snapped across the con- dyles of the femur. The fracture is generally transverse, but in some cases it may be oblique from below upwards and backwards, and it usually occurs nearer the lower than the upper end of the bone; sometimes only a small fragment of bone is left attached to the ligamentum patellae. Fractures produced by direct blows upon the patella are very often starred, the bone being broken up into several pieces. Sometime however they are longitudinal, the patella being divided into two more or less unequal lateral portions. In neither of these cases is the separation of the frag- ments so marked as in the transverse fracture. TRANSVERSE FRACTURE.—There are three points of importance to be remembered in connection with this fracture. In the first place, there is some separation of the fragments, the exact amount depending upon the tearing of the periosteum and the capsule of the joint at the sides of the bone; the separation is generally sufficiently marked to allow the finger to be introduced between the fragments when the knee is flexed. Unless measures be taken to prevent it, the upper fragment becomes more and more drawn up as time goes on, until there may be a gap of several inches between the two fragments. The second and perhaps most im- portant point of all is that the periosteum is not torn across on a level with the line of fracture; the periosteal rent is usually below the fracture, with the result that a piece of periosteum projects for half an inch or more beyond the lower edge of the upper fragment, and curls round and lies over the fractured surface (see Fig. 52). Hence, when the two fragments are approximated, this layer of periosteum is interposed between