28 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. latter case the decision may be greatly facilitated by skiagraphy, and all cases of oblique fracture should be examined by means of the Rontgen rays within two or three days of the accident; this can be done without removing the splints. If it be found that the position is bad, operative measures can be undertaken before much consolidation has taken place. In performing these operations the first and most absolute essential is that strict antiseptic precautions should be employed; without them, of course, operation would be quite unjustifiable. The procedure consists in cutting down upon the fracture, clearing away all the blood-clot that is between and around the ends of the bone, removing any soft tissues that may have become interposed between the fractured ends, and then bringing the latter into accurate apposition. As a rule, the mere getting the broken ends into position is not sufficient, and means must be taken to fix them firmly together until consolidation has occurred. This may be done by wiring them, by fastening them together with ivory pegs which are cut short and left in, with steel pins introduced temporarily and removed after some weeks, or with screws, as advocated by Mr. Arbuthnot Lane. When there is separation of the fragments—such as occurs in fractures of the patella or the olecranon—it is sufficient to bring the fragments together and to pass a wire from one to the other in the manner which will be described later on. In fractures of the shaft of a long bone, however, particularly when they are oblique, wiring is not the best method. The wire to a certain extent no doubt keeps the ends of the bone together, but it is not sufficient to prevent movement between the ends, and besides, after a few days, the wire tends to cut through the bone, and shortening may subsequently recur. Hence in oblique fractures and those in the neighbourhood of joints, or where it is necessary to fix a small piece, pinning, pegging, or screwing the fragments together is the better plan. These methods will be referred to in greater detail when we discuss the operations for ununited fracture. THE PREVENTION OF ADHESIONS IN JOINTS AND MUSCLES and the promotion of the nutrition of the parts. This important indication in treatment may be considered under two heads— (a) the after-treatment in cases of fracture where splints are chiefly relied upon, and (l>) the after-treatment in cases where massage is chiefly employed. (a) In cases where splints are employed.—Two important points still remain to be considered—namely, how long should absolute rest of the part be maintained, and how long should the use of splints be continued. The length of time which fractured bones require for bony union to occur varies considerably, but usually in the case of the upper arm displacement is not likely to recur after the lapse of four weeks, and in the case of the leg after about six weeks, and it is the practice with many surgeons to retain the splints for this length of time. After they are left off, a considerable time often elapses before the patient regains