FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. measurements show that it is the same length as the sound one; this extension should be kept up by means of a weight and pulley applied in the usual manner, the strapping being carried quite half-way up the thigh so as to prevent undue traction upon the ligaments of the knee joint. The foot of the bed is raised upon blocks so as to provide counter- extension, and a weight of from four to eight pounds is emp\.0yed. The exact weight is determined by measurements of the limb and by itie patient's sensation; some patients cannot bear'a heavy weight, and in addition to this, the skin may be so tender that ulceration easily occurs from the traction upon the strapping. The point of importance is that only such a weight should be employed as is necessary to make the two limbs of equal length. The measurements should be taken from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to either the tubercle of the tibia or the internal malleolus, and it is well to mark these spots upon the skin with an aniline pencil or nitrate of silver at the commencement of the treatment so as to be sure of always taking the measurements from the same points. Care must be taken to place a small pillow beneath the leg just above the heel to prevent the possibility of a pressure sore where the heel would otherwise rest upon the mattrass. Liston's long splint.—Two points still remain to be attended to in the treatment. The first is to overcome the eversion of the foot and prevent Fig. 39.—Liston's Long Splint. Method of aJ>/>licalion. The splint is first rolled up for a few turns in one end of e.ich of tlie broad bandages or sheets. The latter are then arranged as in the figure, the upper one beneath the Iriink and pelvis, which keeps it_ steady, m\A the lower beneath the affected limb, where it is held firm by an assistant. The splint is then further rolled up in the band.nges until it lies against the side of ilie body, when pads are inserted and it is secured as shown in the following figure. For the cases referred to in the text a stirrup should be applied to the affected limb before the procedures depicted above are carried out. its recurrence, and the second is to keep the patient in the strictly horizontal position. A common method of effecting both these objects by