FRACTURES : GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 29 the full use of the limb, partly because the muscles have shrunk from disuse and partly as a result of the haemorrhage into them, while at the points where the muscles and other soft tissues pass over the fracture adhesions are apt to occur which are only got rid of with considerable difficulty. This is especially marked in fractures in the immediate vicinity of joints. In these cases, if the part be kept at rest during the whole time required for bony union, at least temporary stiffness of the joint is certain to occur, and, unless vigorous measures be taken, more or less permanent stiffness will' ensue, notwithstanding that the fracture may have united in good position. Hence the tendency among surgeons now is to shorten the length of time during which splints are kept on, as far as is compatible with safety, or at any rate to take measures during the course of the treatment to prevent the occurrence of these adhesions. We shall indicate immediately the various steps of the procedure we are accustomed to employ to attain this end. (b) In cases where massage is mainly relied upon.—A plan has lately come into vogue, chiefly among French surgeons, by which a case of fracture is treated from the first by massage, to the almost entire exclusion of the use of splints. In some cases, indeed, splints are practically not employed at all, whilst in most they are merely put on as a restraining apparatus in the intervals between the massage, the limb being quite free of them during that process. The massage is, of course, applied with the objects already detailed (see Part I., p. 22), namely, to produce absorption of the effused blood and inflammatory products, to ensure free movement of the neighbouring joints, tendons, and muscles, and to prevent the occurrence of adhesions or to break down any that may have formed; it is considered that the slight movement necessarily imparted to the fractured ends when these processes are employed is not prejudicial to the proper union of the fracture. While we ourselves are not prepared to entirely discard splints, we are inclined to think that the use of massage and carefully regulated passive movement may be associated with their use to a far greater extent than has heretofore been the case, not only without any risk to the union, but actually with great advantage to the patient; it is thus comparatively easy to put the limb into a condition in which the patient is able to commence using it freely as soon as the surgeon has ascertained that the broken bone is sufficiently firmly united to bear the weight of the body. This is, as everybody knows, not the case as a rule when fractures are treated by splints alone for a long period. When the splints are discarded, the limb is generally very much crippled, both from the occurrence of oedema, which is often very extensive and recurs every time the limb is in the dependent position for any length of time, and also from adhesions of the torn muscles to the tissues near the seat of the fracture; when the fracture is near an articular end, there are not uncommonly considerable ^adhesions in neighbouring joints. For example, in cases of Pott's fracture,