105 FRACTURES OF THE PELVIS. fragments inwards. A thick sandbag on either side of the pelvis with a sheet stretched over the abdomen will be sufficient to keep the parts properly at rest. In about three weeks the patient may get up, using crutches at first, and afterwards getting about with the aid of a stick. THE ISCHIUM.—The tuberosities of the ischium may be fractured, and the separated portion of bone is sometimes drawn downwards by the muscles attached to it. Often, however, there is little or no separation owing to the fact that the ligamentous structures in the neighbourhood are untorn. Treatment.—If there be very little separation, an attempt may be made to obtain union by relaxing the muscles attached to the ischium ; for this purpose the patient should lie on the opposite side with the thigh fully extended upon the pelvis and the knee flexed. As a rule, since union will be by fibrous tissue in these cases, it is better to cut down and expose the fracture and then to fix it with pegs or screws; this is certainly neces- sary in all those in which there is much separation. THE ACETABULUM.—Either the lip of the acetabulum may be broken off, or the fracture may run through the centre of the cavity; it may sometimes be so extensive that the head of the femur passes in between the broken fragments and projects into the pelvis'. The accident may result from a fall on the knee, and this form of violence generally leads to detachment of a portion of the upper and back part of the rim of the acetabulum ; the result is that the head of the bone has a constant tendency to escape from the acetabulum and to slide upwards and backwards on to the dorsum of the ilium. Sometimes, however, it is due to a severe fall or blow upon the trochanter, which drives the head of the bone forcibly inwards against the bottom of the acetabulum, and then fracture takes place in that situation. Treatment.— IVhen the rim of the acetabulum is chipped off, extension (see p. 23) should be employed after the head of the bone has been mani- pulated into position; in adults a weight of six or eight pounds will generally suffice. It should be kept up for at least six weeks, while passive motion should be begun after about a fortnight and repeated daily. In these fractures extension by means of a long splint is seldom sufficient to prevent the head of the bone slipping out of position again. Fractures of the acetabular cavity are very rare, and, being usually the result of very severe violence, are often complicated by fracture of the neck or the head of the femur, injury to the pelvis elsewhere, or damage to the pelvic organs. The exact condition of affairs is difficult to make out and a skiagram will often materially aid the diagnosis. With the patient under an antesthetic, an attempt should be made to disengage the head of the bone from the acetabulum ; the upper end of the femur is pulled outwards by a band passed horizontally around the upper part of the thigh, and extension is also made in the long axis of the