THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 2l8 aching in the bone ; it generally starts in the tibia, spreads to the femur, and gradually affects the chief bones of the skeleton. The bones become enlarged and heavy, but they also bend, so that the femur and tibia become bowed forward, and walking is difficult from the increased weight, deformity, and muscular weakness. The spinal column becomes bent, rigid and thickened. There is loss of height, the hands hang lower than usual, the chin is raised and the chest is sunk on the pelvis. The changes consist of absorption of the bone trabeculae and rare- fying osteitis, in parts resulting in the formation of large and irregular Haversian canals, while in other parts formative changes are going on. The cause of the trouble is not known. The disease usually progresses steadily, and the patient ultimately dies of exhaustion, though in some cases bone tumours may appear, and death not infrequently results from them. ■ Treatment.—Practically nothing can be done. The patient is generally put on a milk diet under the best hygienic conditions, alkalies are given, and tabloids of bone marrow or thyroid extract may be ad- ministered. Massage is employed with the view of keeping the muscles in action, but nothing seems to have any power in arresting the disease. LEONTIASIS OSSIUM. This disease is characterised by large bony outgrowths affecting the upper jaw and sometimes the skull. They form masses of spongy bone, which may fill up the antrum, the nasal cavity or the orbit, and press against the base of the skull, causing blindness from pressure upon the optic nerve, and ultimately death from intra-cranial pressure. Here also there is no remedy. In some cases the bosses on the upper jaw may be chiselled away if they project into the orbit, so as to save the * eye, but as a rule the disease recurs almost immediately. ACROMEGALY. This is another disease for which there is also little to be done. It generally commences between the ages of fifteen and thirty-five, and consists in enlargement of the hands and forearms, the feet, the jaw, and sometimes of other bones. It is accompanied by mental slowness and often imbecility, wasting of muscles, exaggeration or loss of reflexes, and increasing weakness. The bones are more porous than usual. The cause is unknown; the pituitary body has been found enlarged in several cases. Many giants are acromegalic. Tabloids of thyroid extract or of pituitary body are usually prescribed, but treatment is absolutely futile.