22 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. thoroughly dried, the limb is taken down from the cradle, the superfluous flannel cut away, the stitches removed and the splint taken off" by bending it open (see Fig. ii); the edges are then trimmed up and bound with leather, punched with eyelet holes, and the splint re-applied and laced firmly in position. Plaster casing.—Plaster of Paris is also frequently used as a permanent immovable casing. For this purpose specially prepared bandages are re- quisite ; they are made of crinoline muslin about four inches in width into the meshes of which plaster of Paris is rubbed. The limb is first enveloped in a bandage of boracic lint; a sufficiency of plaster is mixed in a basin as already directed, and the plaster bandages, which should have previously been immersed in enough cold water to cover them, are then rapidly applied to the limb, from below upwards. They should be applied evenly and not at all tightly. During the application of the bandage the surgeon from time to time smooths it out and adds liquid plaster wherever necessary. If the bandage require extra strengthening this may be supplied by means of block tin or tow saturated with plaster as already described (see p. 2i). Some surgeons employ this method from the first; it has, however, the great disadvantage that, besides being cumbrous and heavy, it takes a considerable time to remove, and it is generally necessary to employ either special shears or a saw for the purpose.^ It is best, however, to confine the use of this form of casing to fractures in which sufficient time has elapsed for the risk of complications to have passed. Cases have occurred in which, in recent fractures, swelling has taken place beneath the plaster, and gangrene of the extremity has resulted. Another disadvantage is that, if it be put on a swollen limb, the splint becomes loose when the swelling subsides, and there is no means of remedying this, short of removal of the splint and the application of a fresh one. This is objection- able because, apart from the difficulty of removing the splint, it entails considerable disturbance of the fracture. The Silicate bandage—A still lighter and more satisfactory material, which is very useful in the upper extremity or in fractures occurring in children, is the silicate bandage. In employing this, the limb is first enveloped in a bandage of boracic lint, and bandages of crinoline muslin, thoroughly soaked in a solution of silicate of potash, are then applied outside and left to dry. As a rule three or four thicknesses of bandage are sufficient to ensure a light and fairly firm casing. This splint has the disadvantage that it does not thoroughly set for at least four and twenty hours, and ^ The easiest and most expeditious way of removing plaster of Paris casings of all kinds is by means of Gigli's wire saw. When the casing is applied, a piece of stout string is laid along the limb immediately outside the boracic bandage, between it and the plaster, and left there. When the plaster is to be removed, one end of the wire saw is attached to one end of the string, the other end of the latter is pulled upon, and the string is thus withdrawn, leaving the saw in its place beneath the plaster. The handles are then hooked on to the saw, and the casing may be cut through by it in a few seconds.