48 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. (7) The wound should be stitched up without any drainage, and a large mass of antiseptic dressing applied. The limb should be left undisturbed for several weeks; if, however, much blood oozes through at first, one dressing at most is all that need as a rule be done, and the greatest care must be taken not to disturb the fracture. (8) It should be borne in mind that, after all these aseptic operations for mal-union or non-union, union is usually delayed, and it is seldom sufficiently firm after the ordinary period of six weeks to justify the patient in leaving off apparatus. Unless the surgeon be absolutely certain that firm union has occurred, a further period of five or six weeks should be allowed to elapse before the limb is again disturbed for examination. (9) After union is complete, massage should be employed to increase the strength and nutrition of the muscles and to loosen any adhesions that may have occurred between them and the bone. (10) Non-union of fractures.—By this is meant the want of proper consolidation between the broken ends of the bone; the term is applied to a large group of cases, in some of which there is inefficient union, while in others no attempt at repair has taken place at all. Patholog'ical changes.—The following are the most common con- ditions found : (1) The union may be merely delayed; when the part is examined at the end of six or eight weeks, little or no union may be present, but as time goes on the fracture gradually consolidates. This is really a case of delayed rather than non-union, and it is important to bear in mind the fact that want of union at the end of six or eight weeks, or even three months, does not necessarily imply the establishment of an ununited fracture. (2) The callus which forms after the accident may be normal in amount and of the usual structure, but instead of going on to ossification it may remain soft, and consolidation may not occur. (3) The callus may become converted into fibrous tissue, so that the union between the ends of the bones consists of fibrous or ligamentous material, which varies in extent and in strength according to the position of the fracture and the condition of the patient. (4) In some cases there is the formation of an actual false joint between the ends of the bones. The adjacent ends become firmly bound together by a strong fibrous capsule, in the interior of which there is a cavity into which the broken ends project, and this cavity may actually contain synovial fluid. (5) Cases are met with where there is no real attempt at union whatever, and where the ends of the bone become thin, pointed, and atrophied. Causes.—The causes of non-union are variable, and may be divided into local conditions interfering with union, and general constitutional states of the patient. Local.—The local causes may be classified as follows—(i) Imperfect