AMPUTATIONS. 262 and taking care to keep the edge of the knife close to the bone, as in excision, the trunk of the posterior circumflex is protected. The only vessel which bleeds is the anterior circumflex divided in the first incision, and if necessary a pair of catch forceps may be placed on it at once. With regard to the axillary vessels they can either be compressed by an assistant before completing the division of the soft parts on the axillary aspect, or to avoid all risk the axillary artery may be exposed, tied and divided between two ligatures so as to allow it to retract before dividing the other textures. In cases where the limb is very muscular I dissect up the skin flap from the deltoid at the lower part and then divide the muscular fibres higher up by a second incision, so as to avoid redundancy of muscular tissue. The advantages I claim for this plan are, first, the fulness and better form of the stump left after healing; second, the pos- terior circumflex artery is not divided except in its small terminal branches in front, whereas both in the large deltoid flap and the double methods the trunk of this vessel is divided in the early stages of the operation, and retracting often gives rise to embarrassing haemorrhage. In the case of the deltoid single-flap method the vitality of the flap must be seriously compromised as it depends chiefly on that vessel for its arterial supply. Third, the great ease with which disarticulation can be accomplished." The above operation will chiefly be called for in cases of tumour or disease of the upper end of the humerus, or for tuberculous disease of the shoulder joint itself; in the latter case the operation must of course be ex- tended by removing the glenoid cavity, which can be cut away with bone pliers after the limb has been removed; in addition, all the synovial mem- brane must be carefully dissected out, as well as the bursa beneath the deltoid if that should happen to be affected. Operation by a deltoid flap.—In cases of tumour occupying the head of the humerus, Spence's operation is not applicable, and in these either the deltoid flap method or some more irregular form of amputation based upon it will be the best (see Fig. 85, B). Means of controllhtg bleeding.—It will be necessary here to take pre- cautions to control the circulation before cutting the flaps. A variety of plans for this purpose have been proposed, that most commonly employed being either digital or instrumental compression of the subclavian artery as it crosses the first rib. In order to do this at all eflSciently it is necessary to make an incision through the skin and deep fascia just over the clavicle as for ligature of the third part of the vessel, and through this to introduce the thumb or a special instrument called a ' key' ^ to compress the vessel. The objection to this method is that in the first place it is necessary to make a second wound; and in the second place the compression is apt to be very uncertain since, if a ' key' be used, the instrument is very liable to become displaced during the manipulations attendant upon the removal This consists of a J.-shaped piece of wood, Ihe cross-piece being short and covered with indiariiliber. The instrument should be sterilised by boiling before use.