FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 67 behind the upper fragment. In the large majority of cases it passes up in front, and is felt below the coracoid process, forming a projection beneath the anterior fold of the axilla. Below the projection formed by the lower end of the upper fragment there is a depression corresponding to the insertion of the deltoid, and the elbow is directed somewhat away from the side. This accident is sometimes complicated with dislocation of the head of the bone ; it is probable that the dislocation occurs first and that the fracture takes place subsequently. Fracture of the anatomical neck.—This is an injury of some rarity; it is more frequently met with in old people and corresponds in them to fracture of the neck of the femur. The line of fracture follows more or less completely that of the anatomical neck of the humerus and is therefore wholly or mainly within the capsule. The injury usually results from severe direct violence, such as falls or blows upon the point of the shoulder, and the resulting deformity is comparatively slight. The head of the bone not uncommonly remains connected with the tuberosity by bands of untorn periosteum. Sometimes, however, it is completely separated and may be actually completely rotated, so that its cartilaginous surface is in contact with the fractured end of the lower fragment, in which case of course there is no prospect of union. The shoulder is slightly flattened. The lower fragment is drawn somewhat upwards under the acromion, and the head of the bone may be driven into the tuberosity. Separation of the upper epiphysis.—This occurs in young sub- jects before the age of 20, and corresponds very closely in its characters to fracture of the surgical neck. Separation of the great tuberosity.—As the result of severe violence the great tuberosity may sometimes be detached without any loss of continuity in the shaft of the bone. There is then considerable broadening of the shoulder, the fragment being drawn upwards and backwards by the muscles attached to it. TREATMENT.—Of fracture of the surgical neck.-The treat- ment employed for fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus (which is the most conmion form of fracture in this situation) is in the main the one most suitable for the other fractures about the upper end of the bone. Reduction.—It is necessary in the first place to reduce the fracture carefully, and, in order to accomplish this satisfactorily, the patient should be put under an anaesthetic. The scapula and shoulder are fixed by an assistant whilst the surgeon proceeds to reduce the fracture by making sufficient extension to bring the lower fragment down to its proper position ; the latter is then manipulated outwards and backwards by the left hand in the axilla, until it has been brought accurately into line with the upper fragment, the extension being meanwhile steadily maintained. When the line of fracture is transverse, there is no great tendency to a recurrence of the displacement after reduction has been properly effected; when