AMPUTATIONS. 2/6 far down as the central point of the inner border of the foot. From, the centre of the sole the incision passes across to the outer border of the foot, sloping gradually back as it does so until it passes on to the outer surface just behind the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone. It now follows the outer border of the foot until the outer tuberosity of the os calcis is reached, when it passes upwards over the back of the heel to join the first part of the incision which has been prolonged horizontally backwards from the malleolus to the insertion of the tendo Achillis. ^\'hile the last part of the incision is being made the foot must be elevated and flexed. This incision is carried right down to the bone and the flap thus formed is dissected up, while the leg is rotated inwards and the foot held at right angles to it with its outer surface uppermost. As the flap is raised, the articulations between the os calcis and the astragalus on the one hand, and the astragalus and the scaphoid on the other are exposed. If the dorsal part of the flap be dissected well back and held out of the way, the joint between the astragalus and scaphoid can easily be opened, and then, by depressing and pulling the point of the foot inwards the knife can be passed between the astragalus and the os calcis and the strong interosseous ligament divided. The insertion of the tendo Achillis is now divided and the soft structures carefully detached from the rest of the OS calcis, in doing which great care must be taken to keep the edge of the knife close to the bone for fear of injuring the flap. The anterior and posterior tibial nerves should be pulled out and cut off as high up as possible. When the edges of the flap are brought together, the line of union is on the anterior and outer aspect of the stump and the patient walks on the thick skin normally forming part of the sole. It is well to insert a drainage tube at the posterior angle of the wound; this may be left in for three or four days. It will generally be found that in about three or four weeks the stump is firm enough to allow the patient to bear weight upon it. In the interval, the ankle joint should be exercised passively, so as to keep up movement and prevent adhesions. Syme's amputation.—This is one of the most useful amputations about the foot and is applicable to a large number of cases. It may be employed for gangrene which is limited to the toes, so long as the tibial arteries are unobstructed; it is useful for many cases of tumour of the foot, and for tuberculous disease and severe crushes of the tarsus. It has also been employed for tuberculous disease of the ankle joint itself, but it is very difficult to remove the disease thoroughly without running the risk of damaging the vitality of the flap, and it cannot therefore be recommended for these cases; we should much prefer to cut a lateral flap in preference to the heel one described by Syme. In all the other cases, however, Syrne's amputation provides an excellent stump