lS4 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. to normal periosteum below. "J'he soft parts should be turned aside from the thickened periosteum, and the whole of the latter dissected away. The new periosteal bone is next gouged away over the same region, and then, towards the centre of the inflamed portion, a groove is cut in the bone, until the medullary cavity is opened. In this way the bone is thoroughly opened up, and, should the case be one of osteo-myelitis with abscess, the latter can hardly fail to be opened. How the gouging of the inflamed bone leads to such remarkable relief of pain and often to complete cure is a matter which is difficult to understand seeing that all the inflamed part is not removed, but we would emphasise the fact again, that if a cure is to be obtained, it can only be reckoned on after a very free removal of the thickened periosteum and the gouging away of the inflamed bone; small trephine holes will not produce such results. It has been proposed to bore holes with a bradawl, to make small holes with a trephine and so forth, but as compared with the free removal of bone with chisel and hammer and gouge these methods have nothing to recommend them and with them one is very apt to overlook an abscess cavity. Drainage of an abscess.—When an abscess cavity is exposed, it should be opened thoroughly so that there is no recess left, and the superficial opening in the bone* should be quite as large, if not larger, than the abscess cavity itself; the whole lining membrane of the abscess should be thoroughly scraped away, and in fact it is well also to remove some of the condensed bone which forms the wall. If a sequestrum be present it should be removed, the granulation tissue in which it lies scraped away, and some of the surrounding bone removed with a gouge. There is no necessity to stuff the wound or apply any antiseptic after having thoroughly opened up the inflamed bone in this manner, because even in the case of chronic abscess of bone it is questionable whether the organisms causing the abscess are alive. When the bleeding has been arrested, the soft parts can be brought together and the skin stitched up completely; if however free oozing be still going on, it is as well to introduce a small drainage tube at the lower part of the incision, but this should be removed in a day or two. The whole cavity in the bone becomes filled with blood and healing occurs by organisation of clot. In order to obtain as vigorous a clot as possible, it is well not to pour lotions of any kind into the wound after the operation has been completed ; it is well also not to make a vertical incision over the part, but to employ the flap method. In the tibia, for instance, a large flap with the convexity backwards may be turned forwards so as to expose the whole bone; the incision will then lie nowhere over the gouged cavity in the bone, which will be all the more likely to heal readily on that account. After-treatment.— After the operation has been completed and an antiseptic dressing applied, the limb should be placed on a splint and movement should not be begun until three or four weeks have elapsed