FRACTURES OF THE HEAD AND NECK OF THE RADIUS. 91 TREATMENT.—The treatment is very difficult, for union practically always takes place by fibrous tissue. The best plan is to flex the joint fully after completely correcting the backward displacement; the brachialis anticus is thus relaxed and the broken surfaces brought as nearly as possible into contact. A pad is applied over the olecranon to prevent the bones of the fore-arm slipping backwards and then a back splint of poroplastic material should be moulded on while the limb is in the flexed position. As the union is by fibrous tissue, there is no need to keep the parts at rest too long, and passive motion should be begun within the first fortnight and kept up daily for about four or five weeks, when all apparatus may be left off. This injury does not usually give rise to any marked disability except when much callus is thrown out; this may form an obstacle to flexion. Occasionally ossification seems to extend upwards in the tendon of the brachialis anticus, and a spurlike process is formed which greatly hampers .movement, and may necessitate removal of the offending portion of bone. The best access to the bone is then obtained by lateral incisions, one on either side of the joint, just over or slightly in front of the condyles of the humerus. Care must of course be taken not to injure either the median or the musculo-spiral nerve in dissecting down. The muscles are peeled off the condyles and the soft parts pulled forwards from the front of the joint with a spatula ; the brachialis anticus with the coronoid process embedded in it is thus exposed, and the mass of bone may then be shelled out. It is not easy to perform this operation satisfactorily, unless an external incision be made as well as one over the inner condyle ; this greatly facilitates matters, because, by means of the finger pushed in through the external incision, the muscle and its tendon can be displaced to the inner side and rendered much more readily accessible. The conriection between the muscle and the base of the coronoid process is not disturbed in this operation, and the full power of flexion will therefore be regained. When there is bony union with exuberant callus, the latter must be chipped off and the detached portion dissected out. FRACTURES OF THE HEAD AND. NECK OF THE RADIUS. Causes.—Fractures in this situation are rare but of great importance; they usually result either from direct violence or from injuries occurring in connection with dislocation. In young children a fall upon the hand may produce dislocation of the radius or separation of its upper epiphysis. In adults the inj\iry is generally caused by a direct blow on the outer side of the arm, and we have seen cases of vertical fracture of the head of the radius with detachment of a portion of the head, which was lying free in the elbow joint. In this accident there is practically no chance of getting union, while the loose fragment causes a mechanical obstruction to movement and leads to great pain and thickening of the tissues of the joint, and the