FRACTURES : GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. 23 therefore, when it is used, a temporary splint should be fastened to one side of the limb so as to control the fracture until the bandage has set. It has, however, the great advantage of lightness combined with strength and easy applicability; in children it has the additional advantage that when applied to the thigh it does not so readily become softened and soiled with urine as does plaster of Paris. 3. Extension apparatus.—It is often a matter of considerable diffi- culty to prevent over-riding of the fragments and recurrence of the deformity when extension is taken off; this is more especially the case in fractures of the femur, where the thigh muscles are so powerful that they may overcome any fixation apparatus. The fractured ends are deeply seated and cannot be fixed by splints, and it is moreover extremely difficult to control the movements of the hip joint. In these cases, therefore, in order to obtain a satisfactory result it is necessary to employ one of two methods, namely, either extension, with the object of maintaining the reduction and tiring out the muscles, or operative measures which mechanically fasten the broken ends of the bone together. Fic. 12.—Pulley Arm for Weight Extension. The apparatus is fixed to the frame of the bed, and can be raised or lowered at will. As a rule most surgeons employ some form of extension apparatus in these cases. In fractures of the femur, extension may be made either by a weight passing over a pulley, or by traction applied from the end of a splint fixed to the limb. In all cases where extension is to be employed there must be not only the extending force which pulls the fragment down into position, but also some form of counter-extension to prevent the upper part of the limb and the trunk being displaced. Weight extension.—Here the extension is applied by a weight at the end of a cord attached to the limb and passing over a pulley at the foot of the bed (see Fig. 12). The pulley should be so arranged that the cord