2o8 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. to houses in which the hygienic conditions are bad. Probably both causes come into play. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—From the surgical point of view the main factor with which we have to deal in rickets is the osseous deformity; this manifests itself either in enlargements about the epiphyseal lines, or in curvature of the bones. We shall not refer to the other symptoms. Enlargement at the epiphyseal lines always occurs; the curvature of the bones depends on mechanical factors and may not be present. In the thorax, enlargements are found along the line of junction of the costal cartilages and the ribs, forming the so-called "ricketty rosary." When there has been obstruction to respiration, as in children who have suffered from bronchitis or broncho-pneumonia, there is generally the deformity known as "pigeon-breast," in which, as the result of atmospheric pressure, there is a depression at the point of junction of the ribs with the cartilages, so that the sternum projects, and the cartilages run forward towards it. The chest may also be constricted transversely, the lower ribs being everted. The spine is not uncommonly affected; usually there is a general antero-posterior curvature affecting its whole length, but sometimes the curvature may be lateral. The pelvis may be flattened antero-posteriorly or the acetabula may be approximated, and the pelvis may be heart-shaped; very often it does not develep properly and remains small throughout life. The ribs and the bones of the extremities, especially the femur, the tibia and the radius become enlarged at the epiphyseal lines. This enlarge- ment is constantly present, and in many cases, if the patient bears weight on the weak bones, there is also a certain amount of bending. The femur becomes curved antero-posteriorly, the tibia becomes flattened laterally and bends outwards, the common ricketty deformity being bow-legs; genu valgum is also common. In other cases there is an antero-posterior curvature in the tibia just above the ankle joint. The changes in the bones during rickets consist essentially in excessive preparation for the formation of new bone and imperfect deposit of the hard bony structure; the epiphyseal line is thus very much thickened and increased in breadth. The periosteum is also thickened, and the soft tissue in the Haversian canals and lining the medullary spaces is much increased in amount, while the dense bone is less than normal. Hence the bones are soft and bend easily when subjected to pressure. When the rickets passes off, fresh bone is formed in this soft material, and in consequence the bone becomes much denser and harder than normal, so that it is sometimes very difificult to cut through it. TREATMENT.—In the treatment of rickets, attention should be paid to the feeding of the child, and to the general hygienic conditions. Farinaceous food should be avoided during the first year of life, and during the first nine months at any rate, the diet should consist entirely