THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 126 stirrup.i the cord passing round a pulley at the foot of the splint and being fastened to an elastic door-spring (see Fig. 48, yi), by which the requisite amount of extension can be made. The trunk is secured by a broad bandage or folded sheet passed around the upper part of the splint. This splint has the advantage that it facilitates nursing arrange- ments, as the child is able to be turned over, carried about, or wheeled out in the air without disturbing the fracture. Mal-union.—In fractures of the femur it is not uncommon to meet with both mal-union and non-union. In the former case there is generally angular deformity with the apex directed outwards and forwards, and con- siderable shortening. The bone may either be re-fractured or may be cut down upon and secured in position, the latter being the preferable method, the operation of course being done aseptically. Operation.—After the limb has been shaved and disinfected, a vertical incision is made over the fracture, generally along the outer side of the limb; this incision should be very free, for if it be too small, the soft parts will be severely bruised in manipulating the bone ends, and this may interfere with the healing. After everything has been cleanly divided down to the frac- ture, the parts are well retracted and the faulty union is freely exposed. In nearly all these cases the fracture is obhque, and the line of union should be chiselled through until the fragments are completely separated. The perios- teum should not be peeled off except in the immediate vicinity of the bone section. Powerful extension must next be applied in order to bring the frag- ments into position; it is generally necessary to employ pulleys, as the traction that can be exerted by even the strongest assistant is not sufficient. Before employing the pulleys a stout skein of worsted should be passed be- hind the ankle, crossed over the dorsum of the foot (see Fig. 49), and bandaged on with a wet bandage to prevent the loop slipping; its end is then attached to the hook of the pulley. An assistant now makes traction upon the pulley, whilst counter-extension is 'In the double Bryant's splint as originally designed and still supplied by instrument makers, the affected limb is fixed to a foot-piece running in a slot in the lateral splint, and acted upon by the elastic door-spring. Tliis is quite ineffectual in practice, as the foot-piece always jams in the slot and will not slide ; a stirrup is much better (see Fig. 48, B), Fig. 49.—Method of attaching Pulleys TO THE Lower Extremity. A. The skein of worsted is passed round the ankle as shown above ; the ankle has been previously bandaged, to prevent abrasion. The whole is then wetted, and a wet bandage is applied outside the skein of worsted to prevent it slipping, when the powerful pulleys B are attached to the loop below the sole.