THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. 152 in plaster of Paris ; it is constructed as follows. Two pieces of wood are taken, as broad as the antero-posterior diameter of the leg, and long enough to extend from the tuberosity of the tibia to two or three inches beyond the sole ; these splints are rolled up in opposite ends of a sheet as broad as the splints are long, until the two almost meet in the middle. The leg is then placed upon the sheet in the interval thus left, and the splints are turned up on each side, all hollows between the limb and the lateral splints being carefully filled up with wool and suitable pads. The sheet between the two splints supports the back of the leg and the heel, and an extra pad should be placed just above the latter. The splints are then fastened on with slip-knots, and a bandage is applied outside them ; the whole apparatus is then slung in a cradle, the knee being bent nearly to a right angle (see P'ig. 60). No pressure is exerted upon the damaged skin by this splint, and by fastening it with slip-knots, the seat of fracture can be readily exposed without any disturbance. Blisters containing a blood-stained fluid are often present in these cases, and, should they occur beneath a plaster of Paris casing, serious harm ma)- result. If blisters form, the skin should be disinfected in the ordinary manner (see Part I., p. 161), the blisters punctured, and full strength boracic ointment applied over them ; unless gangrene be going to occur, the blisters will heal in a few days and the swelling will subside, when the limb may be fixed up more securely in a Croft's splint. This, however, should be opened up on the same day as it is applied, in case there be fresh swelling, or in case the shrinking of the plaster as it dries should cause pressure upon the still tender skin. In many cases, no doubt, the treatment with the box splint may be carried on throughout, but the Croft is certainly more convenient as soon as there is no longer any risk of pressure. The splint should be kept on for about six weeks; in simple transverse fracture there is usually no fear of non-union ; in the oblique forms, however, it is more likely to occur, and special care must be taken to ensure good immobilisation. Comminuted Fracture.—As the result of direct injury there may be a comminuted fracture, which is often accompanied by injury to and subse- quent sloughing of the skin. Treatment.—The parts should be manipulated into position under an anaesthetic, a box splint applied, and the same line of treatment employed as before. Should it be evident that the skin will slough, the neighbour- hood of the fracture must be rigidly asepticised ; cyanide gauze dressings should be applied and should be changed every day, so as to see the condition of the parts. Should the skin recover, a Croft's splint may be applied after a week or ten days; should the skin slough, however, the treatment will be that appropriate for gangrene due to crushing (see Part I., p. 65). Union will usually occur in about six weeks; in a comminuted fracture special care should be taken to see that the union is firm before the patient is allowed to get about.