40 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. be kept at rest until the fracture has united, a hopeless amount of stiffness in the joint may have resulted. Movement can be practised with little risk to the union of the fracture, as the limb can be enveloped in a moulded splint and moved as a whole. In other cases, however, as for example those in which the fracture is in the immediate vicinity of the dislocated joint, the complication is much more difficult to deal with. An example of this is seen in dislocation of the shoulder joint combined with fracture of the neck of the humerus. Under these circumstances it is exceedingly difficult to reduce the dislocation, for it is impossible to get a sufficiently good hold on the head of the bone to bring it into position. The old rule here was to put up the fracture with the long fragment in a line with the short one—i.e. the dislocated head—and, after the fracture had united, to attempt the reduction of the dislocation. If this attempt were unsuccessful, as was usually the case, excision was sometimes resorted to in order to get a useful limb. The introduction of strict asepsis has, however, altered our views with regard to the treatment of this, as of many other injuries, and, considering the great difficulty and the frequent impossibility of reducing these disloca- tions after the fracture has sufficiently united to bear the necessary strain of reduction, ii is now generally recognised that the best treatment is to cut down upon the head of the bone with all due antiseptic precautions at the time of the injury, to replace it in position, sew up the rent in the capsule, and then to reduce the fracture and treat it on ordinary lines. It is also best, if possible, to wire or to fix the ends of the bones together in some way at the time of the operation, so as to enable passive move- ments to be commenced comparatively soon, and thus to avoid the stiffness which is apt to result if the dislocated joint be not moved from an early period. (i) Fatty embolism.—In severely comminuted fractures fat may enter the veins and be carried on in the circulation. This occurs to some extent in all fractures, but no bad effects result unless the quantity of fat which thus gains access to the circulation be great. When, however, large quantities pass into the veins, the fat globules may become impacted in the smaller vessels of the lungs, the brain, and the kidneys, and may give rise to very serious symptoms. Symptoms.—The symptoms of fatty embolism following a simple fracture usually occur very shortly after the receipt of the injury. They generally come on within a few hours, and they naturally vary according to the seat of the embolism. When the emboli are lodged in the lungs there is the formation of infarcts, followed by oedema of the lungs and subsequent patches of pneumonia. In some very rare cases the emboli may be sufficiently numerous to kill the patient in the course of a few minutes. The symptoms of fatty embolism are sometimes difficult to distinguish from those of shock, but as a rule they do not come on for some hours after the injury, whereas the onsec of shock is generally coincident with