AMPUTATIONS. 224 incision is so planned tliat the line of union of the flaps lies behind the bone, because the posterior muscles of the limb are stronger^ and contract to a greater extent than those on the front. Were the flaps to meet upon the anterior aspect of the limb, this contraction would cause the scar to be pulled directly over the end of the bone. Avoidance of adherent flaps. —Adhesion of the flaps to the bone is avoided by making sure that the entire wound-heals by first intention. If this be the case, and the flaps be of sufficient length, they will not adhere to the bone, for firm adhesions between the latter and the deeper tissues are usually the result of suppuration and granulation of the flaps. Painless scar.—If the large nerves be divided at a higher level than the other structures in the flap there is no chance of their being pressed upon by the cicatrix or becoming adherent to the bone. This is a point of the highest importance, because, should the nerves become involved in the scar, bulbous enlargement will occur, neuritis will be set up and the patient will suffer from intense neuralgic pain, aggravated by the slightest pressure. The ends of the tendons should also be cut short unless there be some special reason for retaining their action upon the stump; if adherent to the end of the bones, they may pull upon them and materially interfere with the patient's comfort and his ability to bear pressure upon the stump. METHODS OF AMPUTATING. THE CIRCULAR METHOD.—This was the earliest form of amputa- tion known, and was for a long time in general use. It was subsequently elaborated into what is known as the modified circular method,—a plan still frequently adopted for amputating in the upper extremity. In the circular method, the skin and subcutaneous tissues are first divided by one sweep of the knife drawn circularly round the limb. The divided structures are then forcibly retracted for two inches or more by an assistant, and a series of circular sweeps of the knife is made through the muscles and soft structures down to the bone at the level of the edge of the retracted skin. The whole of the soft structures are then retracted as far as possible, and the bone is cleared and sawn at a point well above the division of the muscles (see Fig. 65). The result of this is that when the structu-res are allowed to fall into position again, a somewhat conical depression is seen in the stump, at the apex of which lies the divided end of the bone, the base being formed by the circular cuff of skin. Objections.—This method however has many objections. In the first place, it is often difficult to perform, especially if the limb be conical, for the retraction of the different layers is not easily effected, and if the cufl' of skin has to be dissected up and turned back, one of the chief advantages of the operation, viz. its celerity, is sacrificed. In other cases again, the retraction of the soft parts may be much hindered by matting together of