AMPUTATION ABOUT THE KNEE-JOINT. 285 about the front and lateral aspects of the joint are divided, when by increasing the flexion of the limb the surgeon is able to complete the separation of the semilunar cartilages from the head of the tibia, and to divide the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. The division of the hamstring tendons and the vessels and nerves in the popliteal space completes the disarticulation. The arteries requiring ligature will of course be the popliteal, which with its vein will be found in the middle line behind the femur, and the anastomotica magna on the inner side of the flap; a few other ligatures will be required for articular and muscular arteries. The patella is left undisturbed in the flap. A drainage tube should be inserted at the upper angle of the wound and may be removed in two or three days. The usual antiseptic dressings are applied, the limb placed in a short trough of Gooch's splinting, elevated and secured to an inclined plane or firm pillow. Fig. 96.—Amputations adout thk Knf.f. A. Stephen Smith's "hooded flap" method of disarticulation at the joint. In the original operation the incision ran transversely across the front of the limb, and was not notched as depicted above. B. Lister's modification of Garden's amputation. C. Garden's amputation through the femoral condyles. In the two last operations the dotted line indicates the level at which the bone is divided. This operation gives a large hooded flap which falls over the end of the femur, and the skin of this flap is dense and able to bear considerable pressure. The cicatrix is vertical, and lies partly behind the femur and partly in the hollow between the condyles. As healing goes on, it gets more and more drawn up upon the posterior aspect and out of the way of all pressure. The object of leaving the semilunar cartilages behind is to form a sort of natural pad which will furnish the rounded condyles with a more or less square surface and prevent injurious pressure upon