35 FRACTURES : GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. purchase from the limb above and below the wound, is formed, the whole of the wounded area is easily accessible, and dressings can be renewed as frequently as may be necessary without disturbing the fracture. When there is necrosis.—Necrosis of the fractured ends is very likely to occur in septic cases, and after a time the necrosed portions will become loose and should be removed. The time required for this detachment varies from about six weeks in the case of the fore-arm to about six months in the case of the femur. Non-union is very apt to result when necrosis of this kind occurs. Therefore, as soon as the wound has healed, the interrupted splint just described should be dispensed with, and the entire limb should be put up in an immovable plaster of Paris casing. Fig. 15.—Intf.rkui'tkd Plaster of Paris Splint. A form of splint adapted to compound fractures, showing how the iron bars, incorporated with the plaster bandage, are bent to allow free access to the wound. The limb is slung from a cradle ; as a rule the plaster bandage would be carried above the knee. WHEN THE DAMAGE IS EXTREME.—While the methods just described may be looked upon as the normal treatment for compound frac- tures, cases nevertheless will arise even at the present day in which the question of amputation has to be decided first of all. Of course when a limb has been partially or completely torn off there will be no hesitation in deciding that the stump must be trimmed or the partially torn-off limb must be amputated. Similarly, when, in addition to extensive comminution of the bones, the main vessels, nerves and muscles are torn through, amputation will be the better practice; and again in badly lacerated wounds, such as machinery accidents, where the bone is much broken up and where the parts are badly lacerated and greatly soiled with greasy dirt, immediate amputation may also be called for. Again, in old persons or in those much enfeebled by constitutional disease, the quickest and most satisfactory plan of bringing