THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF BONES. l82 and the affected medulla removed; in- most cases it is well to trephine through both tables of the skull, because the whole thickness of the bone is apt to die, and suppuration will then occur between the dura mater and the bone. This will be referred to more in detail when dealing with inflammation of the cranial bones. When the scapula is affected, complete excision is the simplest and best practice if the whole bone be diseased. \Vhen only a portion is attacked it is not worth while opening up the bone ; all the bone visibly affected should be cut away. In the small bones, such as the tarsal bones, excision of the affected bone may suffice if the inflammation be limited to a single bone, but there is generally suppuration both of bones and joints, e.g. after a compound fracture or injury to the joints, and in these cases amputation is the only remedy. CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF BONE. Chronic inflammation of bone may occur, affecting chiefly the perios- teum on the one hand and the medulla and adjacent bone on the other. This may follow the acute form, but usually it is chronic from the first. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—In chronic periostitis there is great thickening of the periosteum itself and marked formation of new bone beneath it, along with condensation of the pre-existing bone; so that in chronic periostitis there is always a certain amount of osteitis. In chronic osteo-myelitis the result as regards the bone is either softening, termed "rarefying osteitis," or condensation, termed "condensing osteitis," or a localised suppuration in the bone—what has been described as " Brodie's abscess of bone." In some rare cases a sequestrum is formed in connec- tion with this chronic inflammatory condition. The inflammation is not limited to the medulla and the adjacent hard bone, but after a time it extends in all cases to the periosteum, so that the case is a combination of chronic osteo-myelitis and chronic periostitis. Hence, these two condi- tions cannot be separated from each other as regards treatment. Chronic inflammations usually commence without any acute symptoms, sometimes after an injury, possibly in connection with some constitutional condition, or under other circumstances that we do not exactly understand. We exclude here the chronic inflammation of bone dependent on tuberculosis, syphilis, and possibly rheumatism, though some of these chronic forms may be of so-called rheumatic origin. In chronic osteo-myelitis going on to rarefying osteitis an abscess may occasionally form, and the rarefying osteitis may extend through the whole thickness of the dense bone, so that an external opening forms. If this be insufficient for the escape of the pus, the chronic inflammation of the bone still persists; and similarly chronic inflammation may go on after an operation for the removal of a sequestrum, where the latter has been