SETTING UP HOUSE. 5 good position, tlio scale of living runs somewhat on these lines. Upstairs: lircahfast, tea or coffee, or both, bread, hot rolls, one or two hot dishes, and one, at least, cold on tlie sideboard; lunch (where there are children), the kitchen joint, vegetables, and pudding, with cheese, butter, and perhaps a cake or some cheap fruit: five o’clock tea, tea, hot cakes or toast, sandwiches, bread and butter, cake, and little fancy cakes; dmaer, soup or fish, or both, one or two entrees, poultry, joint, or game, a salad or some vegetable entremet, a sweet or a savoury, or both. For this scale the downstair meals would be broad and butter, tea or cocoa, and either bacon (fried or cold), eggs, dried or fresh fish, or sausages, for breakfast; a joint and pudding, or fish and meat, or soup and meat, with, at least, one vegetable, for dinner; tea, bread and butter or jam, dripping cake or toast, or, in summer, some green food, such as mustard and cress, watercress, &c., for tea; and for supper, bread and butter, cheese, or jam, cocoa, and any little dainty left over from upstairs; this is if there are women only; if there are men, cold meat, or some- thing of that sort, will have to be provided for the last meal. (It may be observed that in some households a plain bread and butter, jam, and watercress breakfast is provided, the “relish” otherudse given being trans- ferred to the last meal, supper. But this depends on individual tast-es, and often on the cook.) Besides these four regular meals, servants are very fond of introducing a fifth, at 11 or 11.30 a.m. Now, where the breakfast is early, say, at 7.30, and where the meal leads neither to undue waste of time nor of food material, the mistress is wdse who passes this arrangement over unnoticed. As long as the supplies last out fairly well, and it is not a recegnised, sit-down meal like breakfast or dinner, well and good. It is well to allow good servants some law in the management of their own affairs; it takes off the machine-made monotony of existence below stairs, which is one of the great complaints brought by servants against domestic service, and truly, in not a few houses, the complaint is a fairly just one. Another complaint is the lack of personal freedom. Life is, by some mistresses, mapped out to the uttermost minute, so that there is no encouragement to a clever servant to get through her work ; for, as soon as one task is done, another rises before her, with a vista of peaks behind like a panorama of the Alps, so that she gets hope-