HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 10 meat au gratin, curries, and such like, and, granted these, will be found ample. Naturally, however, where sucili smaller dishes are not permissible, even with women only, you must reckon on requiring tne larger average. Where re-cooked meat is forbidden, and plain roast, boiled, or broiled meat is insisted on, it is best not to get too large joints, as cold meat becomes a weariness. 1 do not for one minute mean that these items are to be religiously followed out, week after week, but they are simply intended to explain the parcelling out of your butcher's book, with due regard to. economy. If you have a large proportion of men, especially if there are menservants, and a good deal of coming and going in the house, you may lay your account to an average of 11b. a head a day; but remember, in all these cases, there should be a fair amount of dripping, and where economy is necessary, the use of this must be insisted on. (I may have a few words to say later on the subject of perquisites, of which dripping is a chief one.) It cannot be too finnly impressed on your cook’s mind that there is no better frying material, for fish especially, than good, clarified dripping; indeed, so eminent a chef as M. Jules Gouffe directs that even the fat skimmed off the surface of stock, when in process of making, should always be set aside for use, as being, with drip- ping, one of the best forms of friture; and what so eminent a chef lays down as a rule for such aristocratic cuisines as he presided over, is surely worth attending to in ordinary hfe. Dripping is also useful for household pastry, cakes, &o., and is, when home-made and well clarified, infinitely to be prefei-red to the “cooking butter” and lard (in other words, rendered-down pigs’ fat), so dear tO' the self-styled “high-class” cook. If any taste betrays its origin, the blame lies with_ the cook’s ignorance or carelessness. I have dilated on this subject, as the butcher’s bill is usually the great crux in housekeeping, but a word or two must be added on the vexed question of foreign meat. It may be admitted at once that nothing comes up to prime home (and carefully) fed beef and mutton, but, unfortunately, this is daily growing rarer and more expensive, for the supply is not actually equal to the demand, conse- quently, one must look round to supply the deficiency. Many housewives, and most servants, have a rooted anti- pathy to foreign meat of any kind. This is chiefly the result of ignorance, and of the feeling, instinctive in so