THE STORE ROOM, LARDER, Ac. 39 coloured, and popular abroad as “lentilles a la reine”) and German (a brownish green and not so delicate as the Egyptian), and such like should not be bought in bulk, as they are apt to suffer from weevil. Almonds, spice of all kinds, starch, socla^ coffee, and tea should be kept in tightly-closed and airtight tins. Sitgar is best kept in closely-covered earthenware jars, and too large a supply should not be bought, as it also is apt to suffer from insects. Candles, like soap, should be bought in large quan- tities, as they need hardening before use. When white wax candles become discoloured they may be improved by wiping them with a cloth dipped in spirits of wine. Honey, which, to avoid adulteration, should be bought in the comb, may be stored for months in an earthen- ware jar, covered with a clean cloth under the tightly- fitting lid to ensure the perfect exclusion of air. Dried fruits should be bought in large quantities only in the beginning of winter, when the new fruits come in; say the end of October or beginning of November. Figs, dried, should never be bought till after the first frosts, pour caxise! Lastly, always remember when buying canned goods of any kinds to examine them closely, rejecting all whose tins are in the least damaged, no matter to how small an extent, and always buy them at a sufficiently large shop to ensure the freshness of the stock, and the responsibility of the tradesman. Be sure to have the store room aired at regular in- tervals, and insist on the most rigid cleanliness, dry- ness, and tidiness. Untidiness, moisture, and the dropping about of stores are all direct encouragements to insect pests of all kinds. The store room is dis- tinctly the mistress’s province, and it is well, therefore, if possible, to keep a corner where you can store the spare supplies of household linen, spare glass, &c., for if more than is actually required for the needs (on a liberal scale) of the house is given out, it is wonderful how things disappear and get broken! and it is rather annoying to have some friends coming to dinner and to be told suddenly that. “We shall want some more tumblers, ma’am!” or “If you please, ma’am, we have only enough sherry glasses for yourselves! ” When you know for a fact that at the last count over of the pantry stores there was a full set of everything for twelve, and your daily number is never over" six I But