7« HOUSEHOLD HINTS. this process is nob carried out till after the washstands, toilet tables, &c., have been properly cleared and attended to, as this gives more time for the airing, beginning at the room which was aired first and going on in rotation to the others, after which return and make the beds in similar rotation, finally dusting and removing any scraps, &c. A good housemaid folds and puts away any clothes, &c., left out by the inmate before beginning to tidy the room. In the evening, when she takes up the dressing water, she will, if the owner of the room has no maid, lay out dressing gown, slippers, &c. Now with regard to the care of beds and bedding. The iron bedstead has advantages over the older wooden one; but both can be kept in perfect order with a minimum amount of attention, provided this be given regularly. The former harbour dust more than one realises, as can easily be seen by lifting the laths where they cross one another; these little nests, and every corner, should be dusted with a brush at intervals, and not unless this precaution be taken can any one boast of cleanliness. The main enemies are dust, damp, and moth. Brushing must be extended to the mattresses, which harbour dirt all along the edges, and especially wherever a button is fixed. A very good plan is to tie a thick piece of hessian all over the laths, under the mattress. This serves a double purpose; it helps to keep the bedding clean and saves much wear, as the sharp irons out into the mattress and often cause ironmould. A loose holland cover over the mattress, made to button tidily at one end, also goes a long way towards keeping it clean. This can be washed and changed as often as need be without much trouble or expense. Wherever there is any danger of moth, Keating’s powder can be freely u.sed between the ticking and the cover. Send the mattresses to a good upholsterer if any signs of moth appear, as the horsehair will need thorough baking, and the tick will want washing, before the evil can be cured. Again, in cases of infection the articles should be sent to some well-known public disinfecting establishment, where everything is baked in large ovens arranged expressly. If the mattress, pillow, or feather bed only need freshening, and space is not too limited, the operation can be performed at home, thus: Unpick the ticking, remove the flock or feathers, pick them all over thoroughly, and expose them for twenty-four hours