THE OFFICES. 81 steady, respectable servants. I know from experience that it is not easy to tempt servants away from such a “ family, ” even for the chance of higher wages. If, how- ever, this parlour is impossible, the kitchen must be arranged accordingly. The kitchen should be light, bright, and, above all, well ventilated. The exigencies of town life may render the first of these conditions difficult to obtain, but the other two are sine qua non! If, as only too frequently happens, the kitchen looks out on an area (with probably an interesting vista of the dusthole and coal cellar), the walls of this area must be kept regularly limewashed, as this is not only sanitary, but increases the light in the room. If the kitchen must, perforce, also be the ser- vants’ hall, have the windows nca.tly curtained with muslin, allowing a sufficient supply of this to' ensure the cleanliness of these curtains; and encourage the servants to keep trim window-boxes. Where, however, the kitcljen can bo kept entirely for its proper use, keep to strictly utilitarian furniture. A large, steady table, another smaller one for dishing up (both should be of deal and spotlessly kept), a good dresser, with two drawers, two cupboards, one for kitchen stores, the other for spare plates and dishes, moulds, &c., a good clock, a couple of boards nailed to the wall to hold the dish covers, a modern, well-chosen range, and, if it may_bo, a small gas stove. Apropos of this, it is well to establish that never (save at times of unusual stress and hurry) should the range and the gas stove be kept in use at the same time. If this rule is not rigidly enforced, there will be trouble over the coal, or the gas bill, and possibly both, at the end of the quarter. Care must be taken re the range, for unless in good working order, ana of a good make, both labour and expense will be nearly doubled, lliero are so many good ranges going, it is almost invidious to specify any particular make, though the experience of many years leads me, personally, to favour the Eagle range, both for its use and its economy. It is so arranged that a very small fire (when no cooking is about) will keep the boiler hot, and the fire can be incre^ed or decreased in a minute without trouble or exertion. Whilst on the subject of the range, let me remark that the strictest cleanliness is indispensable in this matter. The range must be thoroughly cleaned out daily, all cinders, ashes, &c., being cleared from the range with a cinder shovel, sweeping out the flues with G