9? VARIOUS RECIPES, Ae. frequently, applying the previous recipe at the regular cleaning times, as the methylated spirit and the vinegar remove grease and smears, and the whole preparation is a good remedy against worm-eaten furniture. Japanese, to Polish.—To one pint of linseed oil add one pint of cold, strong tea, the whites of two eggs, and 2oz. of spirits of salt; mix this all well together, and pour into a bottle, shaking this well up each time before use. Make a pad of soft linen, pour a few drops of the mixture on this, and rub the furniture well up with it, finishing the polishing with an old silk hand- kerchief. In Japan fine rice paper is used for this last polishing. Oak, to Glean.—Wash the oak carefully with warm ale, and when dry rub up with soft rags moistened with paraffi)!. Or, if thoroughly clean, any of the pre- viously-given furniture creams will do. Or, mix together one pint of methylated spirits and lOoz. of vinegar, shake these up well, then add 5oz. each of turps, and boiled linseed oil, imbblng it well in, and finally polishing with a clean, dry flannel. Old, to Itevive.—Put into a bottle half a pint each of olive oil, rectified oil of amber, spirits of turps., adding, when these ai'e well mixed ioz. each of lavender and tincture of aikanot root. Keep in a tightly-stop- pered bottlo'; this sliould bo rubbed on woll with cotton rags and then wiped dry; or, put into a pan 2oz. of yellow wax, half a pint of boiled linseed oil, and loz. of boiled alkanet root; stand this in the bain-marie till the wax is all melted and the whole is well coloured with the alkanet, then strain it, and, when cool, add a gill each of spirits of turpentine and vinegar; mix well and use. Apply on a bit of flannel, and rub sharply, always keeping to the way of the ^rain; finish with a clean flannel, and, lastly, with an old silk handkerchief. This polish is specially good for rosewood, though it is also very useful for dark mahogany or wmnut wood. One point with regard to furniture polish can- not be too strongly enforced, and that is that success in this matteii- depends far more on the work than tho furniture polish put on it. You cannot apply the latter too thinly if a good gloss is to bo obtained. The well-known “eggshell gloss” so admired on well-kept Chippondalo and otlier such like furniture, was almost entirely obtained by “elbow grease” regularly and steadily applied. If furniture H