112 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. .Viiy I'opousso work can be cleaned witli the same com- pound, or with a solution of ammonia; but please re- member that, though admirable for solid metal, it is not much good with modern lacciuered ware, a great deal of which, when cheap, bciiig simply black metal coated with a layer of brass, and finally lacquered; so that any strong polish or much rubbing will infallibly remove the lacquer and the coating or brass, leaving t he dingy under-metal on view. Be careful when clean- ing brass work with any polish to remove all traces of the polish, for nothing looks worse than bits of red or brown sticking about the crevices. Having cleansed the brass thus, finish by well rubbing it up with an oiled or vaselined rag, and then polishing with a leather, but remember, to secure a good result, this rubbing should be all in one direction; cross-rubbing never polishes properly. Brass-lacquered goods should never be pclished with anything, but simply washed in good soap and water, and lastly rubbed up with a soft leather. Unlacquercd, old-fashioned, solid metal is most effectu- ally and easily cleaned (abroad) with onion peel dipped in Calais or any fine sand. Failing onion, lemon peel, after the juice lias been squeezed from it or sour beer, answers admirably for mixing the sand; this is the method employed by Dutch and Flemish housewives, whose affection for brass and copper utensils has almost passed into a proverb. Old-fashioned brass ornaments, candlesticks, or miniature frames may be beautifully cleaned thus: Put into a large pan, sufficient quite boiling water to cover them generously, and, when this is boiling hard, stir in a good lump of soda, and sufficient soap to produce a strong lather. When this is boiling hardest lay in the brass articles to be cleaned, watch the water reboil, and let the brass, &c., all boil well together for two or three minutes, stirring it with a smooth stick to get it evenly wet. Now scrub it well all over with the soapsuds and a soft brush, then lift it out as it stands into a ba.sin, and pour clean, perfectly boiling water over it. Let it steep in this for a minute or two, then lift it out, and dry carefully. It will need no subsequent rubbing or polishing. This is a lacquerePs recipe, which I liavo seen tried on some old brass minia- ture frames which had been neglected for yeai-s, and were groen with verdigris, and also on solid ormolu, with the most perfect success. Bronze, to Clean.—Few people probably know that,