HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 4 increase as time goes on, such extras must be taken into account from tlie first, and, as far as possible, pro- vided for. For instance, the food and laundry allow- ance given above would allow a young couple to enter- tain in a comfortable, if modest fashion, and demand no very .stringent domestic economy, so that, as madam’s housewifely experience grew, she would find it quite possible to manage on the same sum and yet feed more mouths. Of course, the entertaining would have to be diminished, and a .somewliat stricter supervision exer- cised on the various items of tlio domestic budget. Moreover, the matter of w^es would iiave to be looked into rather closer. Still, it is being done pretty generally, and need involve no verj-^ appalling amount of trouble on the housekeeper, who must, however, be prepared to take up the position of practical head of the household in the house, and not to depute her duties to any servants, however skilful and confidential. As in everything else, perfection is no more attain- able in the liou.se than outside it, and it is frankly admitted froin the fii-st that the above are counsels of perfection; still, the nearer the housewife can fit her means to these figures the more comfortable will her life be, and the more restful and satisfactory the home over which she presides. The one subject of more perennial interest to the housekeeper than another is, presumably, that of the household allowances. Who. does not know the despair- ing cry: “ What should my weekly books amount to ? What is a fair consumption of such and such stores for a week, a month, &c. ?” Unfortunately, though easy enough to ask, such queries are by no means ca,sy to answer. Cii'cumstances alter cases, and tastes and habits vary, not only with evei’y family, but, indeed, with every individual unit of that family, and each variation, however slight, affects the total. The best one can do is to give a rough average, compiled by collating the best authorities, at the same time warning the inquirer that such averages must admit of a certain elasticity; for hard and fast rules can only be ensured in very large establishments and institutions, where the inmates must be taken, so to speak, in the lump, and they fitted to circumstances—not circumstances bent to suit their idiosyncrasies, as should be the case in small families. Now, to take the average comfortable family in a