VAillOUS HECIPES, SiC. 95 7. Empty House.—An empty house is the one likely to suffer from frost. 8. Fosition of Cisterns.—Water-supply pipes and cisterns should be indoors, but if outsiue they will need special means to keep out frost. A cistern outside can be kept above freezing point by heat communicated from a gas-jet placed inside the house. In w.c.’s, and where pipes and cisterns are necessarily exposed to cold, it is well to have a jet of gas or a lamp kept burning during frost. y. Tap Left Open.—As running water seldom freezes, it is sometimes useful to leave a tap over a sink partially open, so that water continues to flow. 10. Burst Pipes.—Water in freezing expands, and often breaks the pipe; but the injury is only evident when the thaw comes and the water ^ain runs. Any pipe or cistern suspected of containing ice must_ bo watched, if possible, by an expert, else when a thaw comes a flood may follow, causing gi’eat trouble. This applies with special force to pipes at the top of the house. 11. Stop-cock.—If a leak occurs anywhere it is well at once to shut the main stop-cock, so as to prevent a flood. The position of this main cock must always be borne in mind, as also the fact that boilers in use will not be safe for long without a supply of water. 12. Boilers.—During every hard frost kitchen and other boilers burst and cause fatal accidents and other trouble, therefore these should be looked to as a first consideration. Boilers should be kept at work during hard frost, because by so doing you prevent the forma- tion of ice ill the pipes connected with them, while you also keep the cold out of adjacent parts of the house. 13. Test for Boilers.-—If water runs freely at the " hot” taps all is well, but if these taps fail to run. the only safe way is to put out the fire and call in a competent man to inspect. 14:. Hot^ater Pipes.—Never allow hot-water pipes or the pipes that feed them to be where they can “freeze.” If once the frost gets hold of the hot-water pipes they burst and become useless—perhaps for weeks, and just at the time when they should bo .specially useful. 15. Belay with Itepairs.—During and after a frost it often happens that it is simply impossible to get the pipes repaired for weeks. The household suffers accord- ingly—water has to be fetched from a distance, &c.