HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 50 intervals, tlius adding greatly to the freshness and clean- liness of the beds. These cases may be made eitlier of the well-known blue-check cotton, or, preferably, of glazed holland. The above quantities are, of course, not a hard and fast list, but an approximate idea of the amount required for comfort in a household, consisting of master and mistress, three servants, and occasional visitors. With regard to the weekly allowance of linen, much variety of ideas prevails. The usual run is a change of sheets weekly (or, as said before, one sheet changed every week where economy has to be considered); but in large households two to three changes of bed linen weekly are not out of the way. Pillow cases are changed weekly, or one clean one is allowed extra in the middle of the week. Or else the top pillows are covered with more or less ornamental cases, known as “pillow shams,” which are removed at night. In some households, also, a strip of linen, the width of the sheet and about 1 yard deep, more or less decorated, and known as a “ sheet sham, ” is slipped in and turned over the regular sheets and eiderdown, for day use, which, of course, protects the real sheets from dust, &c., whilst adding to the appearance of the bed. It is a melancholy fact that, where economy must be considered, embroidered and frilled sheets and pillow slips add both to the linen and the washing bill; more- over, unless one possesses really first-rate servants, or has the time to look after things oneself, sets of bed linen, trimmed to correspond, are very apt to be mis- matched and worn unevenly. Face towels are changed weekly, either one thick and one thin one, or two thick and one thin one being allowed a head, but this again varies, from a bi-weekly to a daily change. Bath towels are changed from once to twice a week. Two napkins a week is, properly speaking, the mini- mum, one for luncheon and breakfast and one for dinner, but in many houses two a week each are given, and in some cases they are changed daily. Servants’ sheets are usually changed fortnightly, or the upper sheet of one week oecomes the under sheet of the next. For servants’ towels, one face towel a week and one bath towel a fortnight is the general allowance. Now with regard to the material; for bed linen, pure