42 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. LiquiH Imperial Measure. 4 Gills 2 Pints 4 Quarts 0 Gallons 18 Gallons 30 Gallons 64 Gallons 72 Gallons 108 Gallons (2 Hogshijads; 216 Gallons (2 Butts) 1 Gallon of wine i Cask Octave 1 Hogshead of Beer 1 Hogshead of Brandy ... 1 Hogshead of Wine 1 Hogshead of Bum 1 Hogsl ead of Sugar 1 Pint 1 Quart 1 Galion 1 Firkin 1 Kilderkin 1 B irrel or “Tierce” 1 Hogshead 1 Puncheon 1 Butt 1 Tun 0 “ reputed ” Quart Bottles Abouc. 13 Dozen "reputed” Quart Bottles About Dozen “reputed" Quart Bottles 64 Gallons 60 Gallons 43-46 Gallons 46-.60 Gallons 13-16 Hundredweights It is best on all occasions to weigh (and weigh accu- rately) the ingredients used for any recipe, for though an experienced chef or cook may he able almost by instinct to measure correctly by rule of thumb, the average cook, whether amateur or professional, most certainly is not, and failure, or, at best, uncertainty, is the inevitable result. So a pair of scales and a graduated liquid mea.sure should be found in every kitchen. However, failing these, there are fairly accu- rate makeshift weights, much used by cooks, to the con- fusion of their employers, who are ignoi'ant of the proper equivalents. Here is a pretty accurate list of these substitutes: One drop equals 1 minim. Thirty drops equal one saltspoonful or i a drachm. Sixty drops equal one teaspoonful or 1 drachm. Two teaspoonfuls equal one dessertspoonful. Two dessertspoonfuls equal one tablespoonful. or loz. dry and ioz. liquid measure. . Two tablespoonfuls equal one gravy spoonful or one fluid ounce. Four tablespoonfuls equal one port glass or half a gill. Eight tablespooiifiils equal one gill, two port or three sherry glasses, or a “ quartern,” or one teacupful. Two gills or two teacupfuls equal half a pint, or a breakfastcupful, or a tumbler. . « ■. Half a pint equals two breakfast cups or twenty fluid ounces. Twenty fluid ounces equal one fluid pound, and correspond to tne 16oz. avoirdupois pound. These measures, it rnust be remembered, are for water, wiue, vinegar, fruit juice, and such like; syrups, oil,