HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 24 store.s, keeps the accounts, engages and dismisses all the under servants, and generally pays the wages. She is responsible in every way for the comfort, behaviour, work, and holiday.s of the servants under her; and sees to the proper care and maintenance of the furniture and appurtenances of the house in every respect, seeing her mistress at stated intervals to show her accounts, and also to report on the condition of the house gener- ally. She has her own sitting-room, in which all her meals, save dinner, are generally served. In large families, where an extensive staff is kept up, and there are many visitors, all the household generally dine in hall, the housekeeper and head manservant, ladies’ maids, visiting valets and maids, &c., retiring to the housekeeper’s room for the second course, the cook and senior footman replacing the housekeeper and butler after the depar- ture of the latter. Remember, the housekeeper’s authority is strictly confined to the interior of the house. She has nothing to do with the cellar, and very often it is a question to be settled whether .she or the butler orders the coals. Cook-Housekeeper.—This is a person, who, besides attending to her own culinar5' duties, is responsible for a great deal of the duties otherwise belongfing to the housekeeper. She keeps the accounts, and, if required, pays them, bringing the receipts to her mistress; orders the stores required in the house, and is responsible for the efficiency of the store room ; she sees to the cleaning of chimneys, windows, and the proper condition of all outside premises, .save those for which the butler or .stablemen are responsible. She presides at, and is responsible for, the proper serving of the servants’ meals; she does herself all the more important parts of the cooking for the dining-room, directing and super- intending the preparation of all the remaining food by her kitchen and scullery maids. Where a cook-house- keeper is kept, the supervision of the housemaids and of the front of the house is either carried out by the mistress herself or by her maid-housekeeper, the latter being responsible for the proper condition of the sitting and bedrooms (save those belonging to the cool^ and her assistants), and the hou.se linen. Of course, the maid- liousekeeper has nothing to do with the butler, the men under him, or his preni’ses. The Cook.—Of these functionaries there is a largo variety of types. For instance, besides the cook-house-