SERVANTS—ENGAGEMENT, &c. 27 to cjirry all tho coals. This maid is ono who requires particular attention, as slio is very apt to be overworked in every dii'ection. The Nurse—Of tliis servant there are almost as many kinds as there are cooks, and it is as well when engaging one to find out what her views with regard to assistance may be. The superior upper nurse, even if she have only one infant in arms, requires a nurserymaid to fetch and carry for her, light fires, and wait upon her generally. If this functionary is not available, granting that she condescends to come, she will require almost the entire time of the housemaid, and for this reason, far more than the wages she asks, she is unpopular in the ordinary household where three to four servants are kept. As a general rule, however, a good nurse will do her own bedmaking, dusting, and general charge of the nurseries, the grates and heavy cleaning being done, and the coals and meals carried up for her. She would do some washing for the baby, and, of course, the necessary needlework; how much of this latter she would be able to do would naturally depend a good deal on how she brings up the baby, some nurses having an evil habit of perpetually nursing the child, which gets it into bad ways, and utterly prevents the nurse doing anything else. Now, this is not the least necessai-y for the infant’s comfort, and a child allowed to amuse itself on a soft rug on the floor is qnite as happy and healthy, if not more so, than the much-coddled babj'. Where there is only one baby, and that past its toeth-cutting and two or three years old, the nurse vei-y often does light jobs for her mistress, acting to some degree as her maid. One point deserves attention with regard to nurses; the mistress should always .so arrange it that the single- handed nurse should have her dinner downstairs with the other servants (unless the children are old enough for a regular nursery dinner), as tin’s freshens her np, and gives her a much-needed rest. This, of course, is independent of taking the child for an hour or so in the morning to allow the nurse to get through her house- work. It is well when engaging your nurse and your housemaid to make arrangements to tliis effect. The Nurserymaid waits upon the nurse, fetching and carrying for her, lighting fires, doing out nurseries, cleaning perambulator, children’s boots and shoes, carry- ing coals, meals, &c., and helping in every way with the elder children, for where there is quite a youpg baby,