VARIOTTS RECIPES, &c. 93 fully (they should be uew laid), beiug careful to see that they are well covered. Of course, the solution car be increased as required, only keeping to these proportions. to Test.—Make a strong brine by dissolving 2oz. kitchen salt to the pint of water; immerse the eggs in this. An egg laid the same day at once sinks to the bottom; a day-old egg sinks also, but not quite to the bottom; a three-days' egg will float just under the sur- face ; an older egg floats just on or above the surface: whilst the older the egg the higher it rises in the irater. JEiderdoicns, to Wash.—These may be washed precisely like flannel or blankets. Use just tepid water, with ammonia in it, and use salted or ammoniated water for the last rinsing to bring up the colour. They must be dried in the open, in a good wind, shaking and rubbing them frequently to prevent the down clotting and felt- ing. The secret of cleansing these successfully lies in the drying. Footwarmcrs.—The following mixture, if placed in a “warmer," then immersed in boiling or very hot water till the mixture is fluid, will keep hot for ten to twelve hours, and may be used over and over again. The mix- ture is lib. of acetate of soda and 101b. of hyposulphite of soda. Use enough to fill the warmer. Frozen Meat, to Thaw.—Place the meat in a warm room over night, or lay it for a few hours in cold water, the latter plan being the best. The ice which forms on the surface as it thaws is easily removed. If cooked be- fore it is entirely thawed it will be tough. Meat once frozen should not be allowed to thaw until just before cooking. In towns, good butchers will always thaw foreign meat for their regular customers, but it must then be used at once, as it does not keep in good con- dition long after thawing. Filters. &c.—These need regular and thorough cleansing sit stated intervals, or they are almost worse than no filter at all. Charcoal filters especially need attention. When buying a filter, always insist on directions for its management, and see that these are attended to metho- dically. A rou"h and ready, but effective, filter may be made thus: Fill the hole in the bottom of a well-washed ordinary flower-pot with a perfectly clean sponge, and three parts fill the pot with alternate layers of sand, charcoal, and small, well-washed pebbles; then place it on a suitable utensil for the water to filter into.