PARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS’ WORK. G5 being cleaned, as plate powder is pretty sure to spoil the surface and polish of the wood. Frosted silver should be washed in very hot, soapy water, dried with a soft cloth in front of the fire, and then well leathered; it should be carefully brushed, with * a brush kept for its use only, to ensure the removal of any dust, &c., in the crevices. When this kind of silver is cleaned at the regular plate cleaning, the plate powder used should be most thoroughly brushed out, the article again washed in boiling soapsuds, rinsed also in hot water, dried, and leathered. It is well to keep frosted silver in good condition by constant small attentions, as too frequent, serious cleanings will injure the surface of the metal. Oxidised silver, again, should be washed in hot soap and water as quickly as possible, rinsed in hot water, dried, and leathered. If, however, it is very much dis- coloured, you will find it necessary to make a solution by dissolving loz. of sulphate of soda in a pint of boiling water, then rubbing the discoloured parts with a flannel dipped in this solution; rinse, and finish off as before. Though the actual cleaning of the silver is given later, a word must be said regarding the daily washing. To keep plate in good condition you require absolutely boiling water, plenty of soapsuds (if the maid will take the trouble, she will find soap jelly infinitely better than the use of plain soap), plenty of rinsing water, and absolutely clean clotlis and leathers, for the least touch of damp or gi'ease on hither of these will utterly prevent any chance of getting the plate into good condition. This cleanliness is easy enough to secure with regard to the cloths, but the chamois leathers are a different matter. There is a kind of superstition extant that this leather is, if not impossible, at all events extremely difficult to wash successfully. As a matter of fact, granted a little care, nothing is much easier. To wash chamois leather, wash and rinse it exactly like flannel, in wai-m, but not hot, water, never rubbing with soap in the washing, but washing it with soap jelly or suds; then rinse it in clean water, of the same temperature as the first, until every trace of soap is removed, when it should be carefully pressed between the hands to get rid of as much of the water as possible; then well shaken, pulled into good shape, and hung up at once to dry, either outside in a good wind and not too hot a sun, or in a warm room where it wiU dry F