9 SETTING UP HOUSE. less than four or five persons), , where the family consists of women and children only, quite sufficient for comfort; wliilst with men the larger amount will be equally ample. This, however, must depend a good deal on the style of living. If for dietetic or otlier reasons only fresh- cooked meat is allowed, your butcher’s bill will be appre- ciablj' larger than when rechauffes and little dishes are liked; moreover, please remember that, in the average household, if fresh meat is ch rigueur upstairs, it will also be a sine qua non below. Another factor to be taken into consideration is poultry, game, &c., in its season, and these must always be taken into account when reckoning up the butcher’s bill. Small birds, game, &c., which contain a larger proportion of bone than flesh, and fish (which also must be reckoned for) are, weight for weight, below butcher’s meat in nutri- tive value, though large, solid birds such as turkeys, &c., will, after drawing, rank with tne same weight of beef or mutton. A good plan, where it is necessary to keep one’s house- keeping as much as possible within fixed limits, is to parcel out the butcher’s book according to the amount of meat you wish to have for the week balancing the more expensive joints by others, equal in quality if properly treated, but lower in price, though cut from the same animal. Say, for instance, you are two in family and four in the kitchen; this, by the lower estimate, would mean 3Jlb. a head weekly, or 211b. for the entire household (of course, at the higher estimate, you must allow 5Jlb. a head, or a total of Sljlb., or say, roughly, 321b. weekly, but the principle would be the same). On Monday order a leg of mutton, weighing, say, 81b., and a good piece of the “leg of mutton piece,” or the round of beef, as you please, from 61b. to 71b. in weight, which is allowed to hang, and can be cut from as required; whilst, towards the middle or end of the week, you would probably order a shoulder of mutton of 51b., and 21b. of fillet of veal. Tlie piece of beef will supply a good beefsteak pudding, some beef olives, and a good pie for Sunday. Next week you might have a whole neck of mutton, Gib. in weight (using the cutlets for dinner, and making the rest, with the cutlet trim- mings, into haricot or Irish stew), a loin, or a Iboiled leg, of pork, of 71b., with 61b. or 71b. of sirloin, and a fowl or some birds, to make up the allowance of meat. These arrangements, of course, presuppose nicely-made hashes.