23 SERVANTS—ENGAGEMENT, &c. anxious to relieve want, show her how to utilise scraps not needed for tlie house by making them up into savoui-y soups, puddings, &c., and let her have the plea- sure of dispensing tliis dole herself to persons whose needs are acknowledged ; she has taken the trouble to make tlie things, she therefore deserves the pleasui-e of distributing them, and learns to realise that it is not stinginess, but justifiable caution, which leads her mistress to forbid promiscuous giving. Holidays are another point which often leads to fric- tion between mistress and maid, and is one that should be very definitely settled.at the time of engaging. There is no absolute rule for this, but the general practice is a fortnight’s absence in the year, and an afternoon or evening weekly, besides the outing for religious service on Sunday. This, of course, can be modified, and, in fact, must be, by the requirements of the household, bub in any case, must be settled. Lastly, there is the vexed question of “followers.” Now, this is a point on which housekeepers entertain very dilfereiit views. Some forbid them altogether; others, again, allow female friends, but draw the line rigidly at male followers; whilst the third allow the occasional appearance of well-known and authentic male relations. Prom considerable experience, the best plan seems to me to say decidedly that you only allow any visitors on condition of being told of, and leave asked for, their presence, on the strict understanding that no male relatives are allowed, unless with the knowledge and full consent of the girl’s relations. It is always better to allow these visits openly, as the opinion of their fellow seiwants will go a great way in influencing a girl’s acquaintance. Whereas, if all followers are indis- criminately refused, this is more than likely to lead to deception and disreputable secrecy. With regard to .servants’ duties, these can, as with every other part of household an-angement, only be arrived at by averages, for each household must be in details a law unto itself. The Houselteeper.—This person is responsible for the efficiency of the whole female domestic staff, and per- forms all the duties which would be carried out in a smaller establishment by the mistress herself. She is responsible for the performance of their duties by the cook and her maids, and the housemaids, and tlie Jaimdrymaids, &o. She orders and gives out all the