HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 38 servants, and keeps more check on expense than can be maintained if daily orders of a small amount are per- mitted. Some mistresses actually allowance their ser- vants, but this I have seldom found successful, and know from experience that if, after telling the cook plainly what you consider sufficient, this quantity is to any noticeable degree overstepped, an explanation quietly but firmly demanded has seldom to be repeated; only take trouble to see that your supplies are ample in the first place. Lastly, to ensure comfort, a corner of the store room should be devoted to household stores of various kinds, such as writing, blotting, packing, brown, and other kinds of paper, spare ink; a ball each of fine and coarse string; a glue pot and a bottle of either Diamond cement or Lepage’s invaluable fish glue; and last, but by no means least, a small medicine chest, for, where there are children especially, one never knows when a ques- tion of minutes may not make the difference between life and death. The items given above are naturally only approxi- mate, and must vary in every household, but they may serve as some sort of guide. A properly stocked and managed store room, whatever its size, is always a great addition to one’s comfort, and in these days of pre- served foods, of all sorts and kinds, enables one to bear with equanimity, even if not with actual enjoyment, the incursion of unforeseen guests, or the domestic mis- haps and times of stress that come to all households, however well managed. A few more hints may help in the preservation of stores. For instance, store jams, pickles, chutnees, <$;c., on the lower shelves, for hot air ascends, so the higher shelves will be found to promote fermentation. Flour may, if the store room be a dry one, be bought in large quantities, but see the container is airtight, as flour absorbs damp very readily, and then becomes musty. If the floor of the store room is stone, stand the flour bin on a wooden box, or wooden rests, to keep it off the floor. All cereals and grains should be stored in tightly- covered earthenware jars, duly labelled, but do not buy very large quantities, as they are liable to suffer from insects. Split peas, the piselli verdi (or dried green Italian peas so useful for purees, sou^s, &c.); haricot and flageolet beans; lentils, both Egyptian (orange