101 VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. about their liauiite, these being carefully swept up next day, together with the beetles which will be found about, and burnt. Cucumber peel or fresh rhubarb leaves strewed about (smooth side down) are also effectual, and should be lifted each morning, and the insects found beneath them carefully burnt. The advantage of the above destroyers is that, though fatal to the insects, they are harmless to household pets. There are dozens of effectual beetle destroyers on the market, but the great secret with any or all of these really lies in the method of using them. Whatever insecticide you choose should be thickly scattered round the insects' haunts for a week, or until you notice a marked, if not entire, dis- appearance; then stop it for a week, after which again repeat the process twice more, with a week’s interval in between. You will find the second lot much smaller than the first, whilst the third will consist almost entirely of tiny, ju.st hatched young beetles. It is this point that is not always attended to sufficiently; beetles increase rapidly and numerously, so that you may destroy tlie parents and yet leave a large supply of young ones to hatch out and reiiopulate your premises at intervals. A change of imsecticide is to be advised, as, if one kind be persisted in, the creatures appear to become inured to it, and in some cases almost to thrive on it, in the end. This certainly is the ca.se with moth. Fleas, die.—For these the strictest cleanliness is neces- sary. In extreme cases the floors, wainscots, &c., of any room infected should be well scrubbed with water, to which chloride of lime has been added in the pro- portion of one tablespoonful of chloride of lime to a pailful of water, using with it the Chiswick Imperial soft soap. Of course, whoever uses this must not put their hands near it more than they can help. Infuse a good lump of camphor in a wine bottle of water till you obtain a strongly saturated infusion, and with this sprinkle the bedclothes, carpets, &o., which, besides being refresh- ing, is also a deterrent. In hot climates the following may also be used for this: Dissolve ioz. of emnphor in a quai-t of water, add ioz. tincture of myrrh, and shake well before use. Sponge with this, and sprinkle on bed- clothes, Ac. Needless to state, Keating’s insecticide is useful in the same way. Other and more disagreeable bedroom pests require stringent methods. Directly their presence is suspected (and they may be accidentally introduced into the ipost carefully-kept houses), greqt