THE LINEN CUPBOARD. 49 again, depends a great deal on the amount of enter- taining. Where economy has to be considered, and a large supply of napkins is not possible, sets of napkins are a mistake; for if. on any occasion, you require an extra supply, the napkins, if in sets, will not match, which never looks well. So by far the best plan is to buy one’s napkins (whether for lunch or dinner) of a convenient medium size, and all of the same pattern and quality. Twelve dessert d’oyleys, according to necessity. A dozen, however, is the least. Four to six traycloths; four to six afternoon teacloths. Four to six fish nar>kins, if used. These are no longer so general. Three to four sideboard cloths. Four kitchen tablecloths; two or more dishing-un cloths. Three roller towels each, for scullery, pantry, and house- maid’s pantry, if there be one. Six to nine teacloths for kitchen and pantry, respec- tively. Six to nine glasscloths for the pantry and the housemaid. Six to nine kitchencloths for the pantry, kitchen, and housemaid’s closet respectively. Six to nine dusters for kitchen, pantry, and housemaid’s closet respectively. Six to nine coarse kitchencloths, and Six knifecloths, for kitchen use. One under and two to three upper blankets to each bed. One eiderdown, or thick flannel quilt, and one coloured summer quilt for each bed. The summer quilts are prac- tically merely decorative, and, like the pillow and sheet shams, so much affected by many housewives, are re- moved when preparing the bed for sleeping at night. From four to six yards of hosise flannel should always be kept at hand in the linen cupboard or store room for giving out as required, and there should always be a supply of dusting sheets for use during cleaning. These may be old sheets, pa.st use in their proper capa- city, or they may be made of lengths of unbleached calico or holland for the purpose. Another item which adds greatly to the cleanliness and appearance of bed- rooms is the mattress case. Abroad, where housewives are much more particular than they are in this country, each mattress has a case, which is slipped over thosid^s and ends, to protect it from any chance of dust, &c., in bedmaking, which cases are removed and washed at E