58 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. atmosphere, passes the flash point, gives off vapour, and becomes dangerous, an explosion becoming merely a question of time. This is, in point of fact, tne cause of half the “explosions” of which one hears. If oil with a flash point of 100 deg. were insisted on. this risk would, in this country at all events, be absolutely obviated. Of course, this increases the price of the oil sornewhat; still, only to a very insignificant degree, whilst, besides being safer, such oil gives an incom- parably better light. This question of the safety of a high flash point in oil was thrashed out some eight or nine years ago before the Petroleum Committee of the House of Commons, at which a w’itness, chosen by the London Chamber of Commerce, asserted from his own experience that safety would not be attained till the 100 deg. Fahr. “flash” point (close test) was made obligatory. Having secured a clean lamp and good oil. the next point to consider is the wick. This must fit the burner exactly! This cannot be too strongly in.sisted on. It should just fill the burner, not loosely, but only just tight enough to ensure its working evenly when turned up or down. It should be cut just long enough to reach the bottom of the container and no more. If left soaking 2 or more inches in the oil, as some maids will have it, beyond what is needed to reach the bottom, the wick will become clogged and hard, and will never burn satisfactorily. Some people say the wick should always be soaked for some little time in vinegar, then well dried, before use. This is said to prevent smoking; it is certainly a good plan for cleansing a clogged wick. With regard to the trimming of the wick, opinions differ as to the use of scissors, or the cutters sold by many lampmakers for the purpose. .Again, some say neither should ever be used at all, the wick being simply rubbed with a soft piece of paper till all the charred part is removed. The latter is a very good plan, if the cleaner can be depended on to remove all the burnt part evenly. A very good thing is, if scissors mu.st be used, to trim the lamp with them, then burn it for twenty or thirty minutes, after which turn it out, and rub off the charred part with the paper. An ill or unevenly trimmed lamp never burns well, and almost always smokes. In lights ing a lamp wise people say that the match sliould never be applied directly to the wick, but held as near as you can over the wick, without actually to\iching it, till the