HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 114 boiler) with water enough to dissolve it, plenty of soda, and as much strong liquid ammonia as the person clean- ing the copper can stand. Add as much water to this as will lill up the boiler, keep a small fire going, and the dirt will soon come away if helped by a little scrap- ing (a proper scraping tool can be got from any iron- monger). When the surface of the copper is reached, a good rubbing with sand or finely-sifted ash, moistened with hydrochloric acid, diluted with water, will soon produce a brilliant surface. Rinse thoroughly and dry well before use. Do- not put your hands near the soap mixture, and, if possible, keep them out of the second, unless you wear very greasy gloves. Fans, to Clean.—Pill them up well with water, with a knob or two- of soda, and let them boil till the dirt is well loosened. Then rinse them out thoroughly, and clean well with silver sand and soap, and again rinse, and dry well. This is for the inside. For the outside use salt and sand, moistened with vine- gar, till clean, then rinse and dry well. If they are required to be very bright, boil them for a minute or two in boiling beer, then lift them out, and, without wiping them, let the beer diy on them. Another old- fashioned recipe is the following; For the tinned inside, boil up in an old pan, kept for the purpose, one breakfast- cupful of soft soap, half a breakfastcupful of soda, and one and a half breakfast cupfuls of water; then lift off the pan, and with an egg whisk, beat it all to a froth, when you add two breakfastcupfuls of silver sand. For the outside, put into a jar two breakfastcupfuls of silver sand, one of flour, 11b. of salt, and half a pint each of vinegar and water. Rub this on vigorously with the hand but mind it does not touch the tinned inside, or it will blacken it. Ormulu, to Clean.—This should be washed quickly in soft soapy warm water, and well polished with a leather. If very dirty, after washing, cover it with a paste of whiting and water or meth^^ated spirit, leaving this on till perfectly dry, when it should be brushed off and polished. Never use polishing paste of any kind 1 This is the best treatment for any lacquered goods, of which ormolu is a sample. Dilute nitric acid, or a diluted mix- ture of nitric and hydrochloric acid, is sometimes re- commended for this purpose, but these mixtures are both too dangerous for ordinary household use. Fewter, to Clean.—^For this the mixture for Britannia