20 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. opinion of the maid’s training, &c., whilst, naturally, ladies will give far more information orally than they will by letter. By the way, if it is necessary for any reason to write to the late mistress, be careful to make out a regular list of questions, each requiring a cate- gorical answer, and keep a copy, so that you may see exactly wliich aro answered definitely and which are shirked. Many ladies are terribly afraid of writing characters, having the law of libel before their eyes; so it is well to state clearly that a “character” is a privileged communicalion,, and no action will lie, unless the sem'ant can prove malice or bad faith on the part of her late employer. In fact, so careful is the law in this matter, that, even should the character be absolutely untrue, there can be no action if the employer gave it through ignorance, and in perfect good faith. Of course, the employer has also the power to refuse a character altogether, and cannot by any means be com- pelled to give one. Needless to say, this is a power that should only be used in the direst need, for it practicaOy ruins the servant. It must be remembered also that the giving of a false character, no matter for what charitable (?) reason, lays the giver open to an action on the part of the next exployer if the servant should rob or otherwise injure that employer; wliilst any individual personating an employer, or using such employer’s authority without leave, to give a fraudulent character, lays him or herself open to a criminal prosecution. It cannot be too strictly impressed on ladies that their duty is to give a true and exact character, both for the sake of the servant and of the prospective mistress. Unfortunately, a good many ladies act on the spirit (if they do not actually use the words) of caveat emptor! and see no great harm in giving an unduly charitable (? ) view of the outgoing domestic’s character as a quiet and easy method of getting rid of an undesirable hanger-on. If engaged in the ordinary way, the servant may, if unsatisfactory, be got rid of either by a month’s notice dating from the day on which the notice is given, or by payment of a montli’s wage (phts the sum due since the last payment of wages). Tliis dismissal with a month’s wages does not, however, give the servant any claim for board wages. This may seem strange, for, if a month’s notice be given, the ser\'ant gets board as well os wages; the legal fact, however, is as stated. Hlness, and consequent inability to fulfil the requisite