VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. 113 originally, bronze was of a pure buttercup gold tint, and that in most cases the olive-green shade with a blue- green patina, we all know so well, is simply the effect of age and, possibly, exposure. At any rate, pure copper, if left to itself and not regularly cleaned, develops a most beautiful olive-bronze satiny surface. For good, really old bronze, if simple dusting is insufficient, wash- ing with ammoniated water, applied carefully with a fairly stiff nailbrush, will be found a success. Wash as quickly as possible, rinse thoroughly, then dry in box- wood dust, previously heated in the oven. I^ever use acid in bronze cleaning on any account! Remove grease with heat, but never scrape with a knife. klodern bronzes, which are frequently artificially coloured, should never be washed, but simply well dusted and wiped with a silk handkerchief, a veiy little sweet oil or pure vase- line being occasionally rubbed over them with tne fingers. Britannia Metal, to Clean-—The best cleansing medium for this is rottenstone, mixed with finely- shredded primrose soap (or soft soap), and worked to a paste with a little turpentine. Apply this fairly thickly, leave it on for a little, then rub it up well, finishing with a flannel dijjped in diw rottenstone. If a very brilliant surface is required, finish with a burnisher. This is also excellent for pewter. Copper, to Clean.—This may be cleaned by the methods given for brass, the onion peel and Calais sand being specially good. The favourite English method, however, is to wash it in a solution of oxalic acid and water (loz. of the acid to a pint of water), then rinsing it well, and leaving it to dry thoroughly in hot sawdust; but this is very destructive to the surface of the metal. A very good method is that used abroad, viz.: A halved lemon, from which most of the juice has been expressed, dipped iir ashes (these may be obtained from the cinder- sifter), sifted through a fine muslin, and well rubbed on the metal, and then thoroughly rinsed off. For bad scratches use a burnisher. Benares Ware.—AVell wash this in warm soapy water, dry thoroughly, then rub well all over with a halved lemon, again rinsing it quickly in boiling water (to re- move the acid), and, lastly, dry well and polish thoroughly with a leather. This is the best treatment for Oriental brass trays, though whiting and methy- lated spirit may be used. Copper Boiler, to Clean.—Mix 41b. of soft soap (in the I