51 THE LINEN CUPBOARD. linen is undoubtedly the nicest, but is, equally certainly, the most expensive to start with, so that many house mistresses prefer to buy cotton sheets, which, being cheaper, they can afford to wear out and throw aside fas dusting sheets, &c.), whereas the cost of linen neces- sitates a good deal of mending and repairing, which, in these days, when servants are by no means clever at, or fond of, darning and mending, would in small house- holds almost inevitably fall on the mistress. Jjinen sheets and pillow cases are usually provided for the beet bedrooms; cotton sheets for nursery use, with heavier or twilled cotton for the servants’ beds. But even for these, in most households, linen pillow cases are pre- ferred, both for comfort and durability. It should be remembered that for invalids or rheumatic people cotton sheets are better than linen, which is apt to strike cold. For table linen, nothing comes up to double damask, and though the first cost of this is undoubtedly high, it is weil worth the extra expense, as it both wears and washes better than inferior or single damask, neither of which keep their beauty in the wash, and, moreover, soil much quicker. It may be observed, for the benefit of the economical, that patterns vary a good deal in price, though the actual quality of the damask may be the same. Spots and small all-over designs are usually less expensive than large central patterns, whilst, naturally, the newer the design, the higher will be the price. It is well to remember that twics a year most of the large household linen manufacturers sell off their old stocks at such a reduction that it is well worth the housekeeper’s while to look out for these times, as they enable her, if not absolutely bent on the very latest fads and fancies, to keep up her linen cupboard both cheaply and satisfactorily. Remember that, to look well, a tablecloth should hang quite 12 inches over the sides of the table, and fully 18 inches at the ends; so the cloth should always be a yard longer and fully three- quarters of a yard (at least) wider than the dining-table it is to cover. (Whilst on the subject of the tablecloth, it is well to bear in mind that no table will look well, however fine the napery, if the latter is laid directly on the table. There should always be a thick under- cover of baize, felt, or Canton flannel, even under the ordinary table-cover in use when the qloth is not on. This makes the linen lie smooth and look thick and glossy.) E 2