6 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. less and just grinds along, getting through the minimum in the slackest way, and losing all spring and energy. If mistresses would but realise that they have made a compact with their servants for so much work of a certain kind, and not a bargain that gives them a claim on every scrap of the woman’s time (even after the thorough fulfilment of the prescribed work), they would oe far better and more obeerfully served. This, how- ever, is by the way. To return to the food question. The style of living given overleaf may be comfortably managed on sums varying from 12s. Gd. to 21s. a head weekly upstairs, according to sex, and from 8s. to 14s. a head downstairs, weekly. A careful, clever manager will do' it on the lesser sum, a less careful one on Sie larger one; and tlure will very likely be but little apparent difference between the style of living in the respective households, though a close inspection may reveal the fact that somewhat more attention is bestowed on the housekeeping by the mistress expending the lesser sum, and that dishes are possibly fitted-in more carefully than in the other case. But practically the balance of comfort will be about the same, perhaps even inclining a trifle in favour of the lady who does her own housekeeping and takes a pride in the daintiness of her menage. The ordinary food allowances run pretty much as follows: Tea, coffee, or cocoa, 4oz. a head weekly. It must be remembered that this, however, supposes that ingredients of really good quality (not necessarily extravagant price) are given; cheap stuff will neither be as pleasant to the consumer, nor as thrifty; cheap tea, cocoa, &c., will nob go nearly as far, and is in these days rather a disgrace, when for good quality, especially if bought in bulk (the best way of buying tea), the cost is relatively so small. Cocoa is best bought in tins (air-tight) containing sufficient for a week’s consumption. If bought in bulk coffee should be in the berry (unroasted); it is but little trouble to roast, and grind as wanted. If, however, it is bought ready in small quantities it should be, like the cocoa, kept in air- tight canisters, containing at the utmost a week’s con- sumption for stale coffee is, beyond all things, flat and unprofitable. It is, in great measure, to its freshness than the superiority of coffee abroad is due, for, as far as the actual quality goes, there is really little to choose. Butter, ilb. a head weekly, with ^Ib. to lib. extra for