HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 54 ill-washed linen should always make one suspect “bleachers,” wliich, in the hands of bad or careless workers', spell ruin to the clothes. It is easy to tell when lime (the chief foundation of most so-callecl ex- tractors) has been used, as, instead of the thinness wearing into a re^jular hole which comes from wear and tear, the linen will be found perforated with a riddle of tiny pinholes as if a moth had been working at it. It IS well to remember that linen begins to want attention within a very short time of being taken into wear. Buttons and tapes disappear mysteriously, the corners come unhemmed, the hem itself gets torn (show- ing where a careless washerwoman has pinned, instead of pegging, it to the drying rope), frills come unsewn, &c.. and. unless attended to at once, will lead to a great deal of unnecessary work. In large houses a linen maid is kept, whose duty it is to see to these things; in smaller houses the housemaids do the mending, or, where men servants are not kept, the housemaids do the bed linen and the mistress’s mending, the parlour- maid seeing to her master’s mending and the table linen, whilst in other families the useful maid, or the mistress, sees to the household mending. One more point de- serves consideration with regard to linen, and that is the marking. All linen should be plainly and clearly marked, and with house linen, even where embroidered monograms, &c.. are used, a corner on the w’rong side of the hem, or some other inconspicuous place, should be marked plainl.v with marking ink. In ordinary cloths, &c., the mark is placed in the top left-hand corner, as this shows plainly when folded for ironing. The scheme of marking is a matter of personal taste, but it is as well to have, beside the name or initials of the owner, the date of the purchase, the number of the set to which the article belongs, with its own individual number; 4 Smith 12, 1903, would show that the napkin thus marked was No. 4 of a dozen bought by Mrs tsmith in 1903; whilst, if liked, “lunch” or “dinner” placed under the name would show that the napkin in question belonged to the dinner or lunch set.