PARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS’ WORK. 77 at least to the sun and the air. If this process should be necessary during the cold weather, light a large fire in a dry, airy room (which fire, by the way, must be carefully screened, as the least draught might cause the feathers to fly about, and accidents happen only too quickly). The contents of pillows can easily be baked in a large oven, but where feather beds are concerned this would be an endless matter. It is very important to air all the bedding thoroughly —that is to say, to turn it out bodily into the open air. If this is impossible, everything can be put on chairs before the open window, if possible on a sunny day; this apparently trifling point is too much overlooked, and cannot be too highly recommended. If this process is regularly carried out at settled intervals, the care of bedding will not really imply more trouble than the dusting of a room, with an occasional “turn out.” Blankets are a difiSculty to many people, mostly because they cannot make up their minds as to how often they should be washed, nor how they should be treated. In many houses they are only washed once a year, at the inevitable spring cleaning; but somehow that does seem rather too rare a proceeding. On the other hand, it is really not necessary to have them washed more than twice a year; but they must have proper care in the interval in the shape of airing, shaking, &c. If washed at home, they can be got up to perfection, whereas by sending them out there is always the risk of shrinking. A washing machine is very good for this purpose, especially as they should never be rubbed by the hand; in fact, when there is no machine, and housewives care for the well-being of their goods, they are always treated with what is commonly called a “dolly.” This is a well-known contrivance, by means of which the blanket is well shaken and worked about in the tub, so that it is thoroughly cleansed without being rubbed with the hands. The water should only be luke-warm, and no soda must be used—a little washing powder or Sunlight soap well lathered in the water is all that will be required. Wring the blankets very dry through a wringer, shake them out, and wash again in the same way, wringing each time until they are quite clean. Do not rinse them, but pull them into shape and hang them out in the sun, which is a great help in preserving a good colour. New blankets especi- ally should be treated exactly according to these instruc-