64 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. Spooas are specially liable to stain, and should be looked over for that purpose. Eggspoons, for instance, are very easily tarnished by the sulphur of the egg yolk, and when this is the case, should be washed in the ordinary manner, then rubbed up with a little fine, dry salt, and again washed. Salt and mustard spoons should never be left from day to day in the salt cellars or mustard pots, for, if they are, they will inevitably be tarnished. Fruit and other acid stains should be attended to as quickly as possible, as the longer they are left on the harder they are to remove. Salt cellars, again, unless they have glass linings, should be emptied and wiped out daily, or they will very soon be disfigured by black or green stains. The same remark applies to cake baskets, if the rich, rather buttery cakes, now so fashionable, are left in them, as the grease will soak through and turn the metal green. Teapots, especially, require a good deal more care than they usually get; they should be rinsed out daily with boiling water directly after use, and then weU dried, both inside and out. Never by any chance allow a teapot, however, to be left steeping in the tub; this is not necessary to remove any stains, and will inevitably loosen and discolour the wooden or ivory bands on the handles, &c. After washing, the teapot lid should always be left open, or else the pot will acquire a musty, disagreeable odour, which will be more than likely to flavour the next brew of tea. If such an accident has happened, fill the teapot over-night with boiling water, put in a lump of soda the size of a nut, close the hd, and let it stand till the next day, when it must be emptied out, thoroughly washed in boiling water, and scnibbed T^dth a small brush kept for the purpose; then rinsed, and well dried as before. The process should be carried out at regular intervals, if the teapot is in constant use, as accidents will happen, and the teapot may get forgotten. Sheffield plate, so much valued nowadays, is cleaned precisely in the same way as ordinai'y silver; but where, as with decanter-stands and such like, wood is mixed with the silver, the former must be carefully cleansed with a cloth wrung out of warm water, then rinsed with another cloth, similarly wrung out of cold, clean water, thoroughly dried, and covered with a sheet of paper, or something of the kind, cut to fit, whilst the silver is