HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 126 it requires care, or it may remove the colour. Unless the spot is at once rubbed with a wet sponge or cloth the nitre will leave a white spot, which nothing will eradicate. Ink, Marking.—For this make a solution of loz. cyanide of potassium in 4oz. of water, and dip the stained article in this, or else brush it with an old toothbrush wetted with the solution; directly the mark disappears wash it well in soap and water. The time it takes to remove the stain depends on the age and depth of the latter. As this solution is very 2>oisonous, it must be kept under lock and key, and only used by a discreet person. Be sure never to let this touch the skin, especi- ally if the latter is cut or grazed. Ironmould.—These stains can be removed in the same way as recommended for ink on linen, but be extremely careful not to let either the salts of sorrel (oxalic acid) or the salts of lemon touch the skin, as both are poisonous. The best plan is to double a rag once or twice, and tie it round a cork, using this to rub tho salts into the material. Another remedy is to shake well together 4oz. spirits of turpentine and loz. essence of lemon till thorou^ly blended, then bottle for use. Paraffin Stains.—^ov these the best thing is benzine. The secret of using this is to make a ring of the benzine round the outside of the actual stain, tlien apply more benzine to the stain itself. In this way you have no discolouration after the spirit has evaporated, but be sure never to use benzine save in daylight, as it is a most inflammable substance. Paraffin on carpets may be removed by sprinkling either fuller’s earth or wheat flour on the stains till they are completely covered, letting it lie, if possible, for a week without disturbing it, then bru.sh off, and there should be no stain left. The paste of fuller’s earth and water is also admirable for this. Parquet, Stained.—If the stains are of ink, and fresh, they can be at once removed with a wet flannel, if old salts of lemon, or spirits of salt, should be applied very carefully, the polish being afterwards restored with bees- wax. If the stains are of any kind of grease, either the fuller’s earth paste, or even fuller’s earth well rubbed in, left on for twenty-four hours, and then brushed off, rarely fails. If the stains are of long standing, make the fuller’s earth into a paste with a little pure benzine or turpentine; apply this thickly, leave till dry, then