108 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. remover of tarni.sh on silver. Strong liquor amraonise (sp. gr. '880) is also excellent, and .so, too, is sal volatile; but the ammonia affects some coloured cloths more tlian ethers. Leather, Morocco, to lienovate.—If this is the seat of a chair, this leather should, from the first, be occasion- ally rubbed over with a clean, soft cloth, and moistened with a little fresh milk, as this prevents the leather from drying and cracking. It must, of course, be well wiped off afterwards. To' cleanse and polish the leather apply egg glair not too generoiLsly with a paint brush, and polish with a clean old silk handkerchief. When leather gets worn and shows a woolly surface, the only remedy is to re-colour this Avith some dye, either plain or blended to get the right shade, applying this dye as dry as possible, for slopping or OA'-er-Avettiug leather spoils it. When this colour is quite dry and well soaked into the leather the latter may be polished as before Avith the glair. To make this, AAdiip together the Avhite of one raw fresh egg, AA’itli half a teacupful of Avater, till it is all of a froth, and the egg Avhite is perfectly dissoh'ed. TheiA let it stand for some hours till the froth has sub- sided, Avhen the clear part is poured off and used. If properly made this produces a nice Amrnish. Grease Stained.—Apply benzine very care- fully to the spots. Ink Stained.—Drop a drop or two of sweet spirits of nitre by means of a quill on to the spot and wash off with a little Avarm Avater and a silk handker- chief and rub the place well afterwards with another dry one. This will also remove inkstains from polished Avood. Marble, to Clean.—Tound two parts washing soda, one part each of pumice stone and finely poAvdered chalk, and sift them through muslin, then make into a paste with water; apply thickly, let it dry on, then wash well with soap and water, and rub it up with a soft cloth. Never use acids to marble, as they destroy its gloss. Marble should never be left Avet, or Avith wet splashes on it, as these ahvays darken the colour, and often turn into a kind of ironmould stain. Marble-topped Avashstands can be kept in perfect order with soap and water, quickly rinsed off and dried at once. If very dirty and .stained, vigorous use of Sapolio works wonders. An occasional rub over with milk improves the gloss. Another good cleanser for white marble is made thus;