92 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. place it in an earthenware basin, and cover it thoroughly, 1 or 2 inches deep, with fresh filtered water, and place the basin in a cold place, like'a cellar. &c. Next morn- ing pour off the water, and cut the butter up into pieces the size of a small apple: now well wash your hands in cold water, and well work each piece of butter between your hands, pressing it well every way to get out any butter-milk that may be still in it. Then make up each piece into the shape of an egg, and drop each into an earthenware pan full of cold water, covering it well down, and storing it in the coolest place you can tin I. The water must be changed every dav the butter being worked up, as above, once or twice a week. The Nor- mandy butter merchants preserve butter this way all through the winter, selling it as fresh during the dead season. Butter, to Test.—Put a piece of butter the size of a chestnut into an iron spoon, and hold it over a spirit stove, stirring it well with a wooden splinter as it melts and begins to boil; butter boils with little noise, but a groat deal of foam; margarine and “renovated” butter has little or no foam, and sputters and boils very noisilv like grease and water. This is the recognised test of the U.S.A. Department of Agriculture. Chamois Leather, to Wash.—Wash in plenty of warm, but not hot, soapsuds, then rinse in plenty of clean, w'arm water, till every atom of soap is gone; then gently wring (or run it through a wringer) till as dry as you can get it, and hang out to dry at once. Rub it well, and pull it out constantly whilst drying to keep it in shape and prevent its hardening. Then, if necessary, iron with a cool iron at the last. If properly treated, this leather w'ill be as soft as new. , . . t Eggs, to Preserve.—Make a solution of one part water- glass (silicate of soda) to sixteen parts of water, pacK the eggs, which must be perfectly fresh and uninjured in a crock, and pour this solution over them, covering them well with the solution. Preserved in this way. eggs keep well for months, and can be used for any purpose for which fresh eggs are required. It is .'=aid that, before plain boiling, eggs thus prepared should be pricked at one end first. Put 31b. of quicklime, ^Ib. of salt. and loz. of cream of tartar into a jar, and pour on to it one and a half gallons of absolutely boiling 'water; when tliis is cold lay in the eggs care-