HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 124 a paste of salt and water, rub the stain over with soft soap or good yellow soap, well wetted, and cover it witli the paste of salt and water; the salt must be kept quite damp to make it act, dry salt is useless. A favourite laundress’s recipe is to soak the stained place well over on both sides with good yellow soap, and then tie over it a little pearl ash, and let it all soak in hot water (even, jf necessary, boiling it), rinse well, and dry in the open air. Lastly, the following, which is a form of eau de Javelle, is a most excellent remover of fruit and almost any other stains. Crush 4oz. of chloride of liine in a basin, and work it to a smooth paste with a little cold water j when perfectly mixed add to this from one and a half to one and three-quarter pints more of cold water (to make up with the water used in blending the lime to two full pints); now stir the lime well up, cover closely, and let it stand for a day or two, stirring it now and again. After this leave it till perfectly settled, w'hen you skim it, and pour off the clear liquid, sti'aining it into a quart bottle, which must be kept tightly closed. To take out individual stains, rub the spot with a rag dipped in this mixture, rinsing it at once, after the spot is removed, in clean, cold, or tepid water (hot water and soap will set almost every stain hopelessly). If the article is much stained or needs bleaching, let it soak in cold water, to which you have added enough of the above bleaching liquid to make the water smell slightly of the lime. Watch this, and directly the stains are removed lift out the linen, rinse thoroughly, and dry in the open air, in the sun if possible. This requires care, as if the hnen is left in too long the bleach will rot it. The real eau de Javelle is made as follows: Mix loz. of chloride of lime with three- quarters of a pint of water, and in another basin dissolve 2oz. of carbonate of potash (or, failing this, carbonate of soda) in a quarter of a pint, or gill of water; the two solutions must then be mixed, boiled, and, if neces- sary, filtered. Bottle and use as in the preceding recipe. IBut, from experience, I should say only use it half the above strength. Globes, Grease Stained.—Such stains can be removed from gas and other globes either with strong soda and water, or with benzine, being careful never to use the latter’by candlelight or near a fii’e. The globes should be allowed to dry thoroughly before use, and should be rubbed up with old, soft newspaper.