()0 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. it is being kept clean! I kept tlio old burner as a horrid example.” Another risk with inferior lamps is that they have no safety attachments, as pretty well all well-made lamps have now, so that, if they are upset, the oil runs out. the lamp does not go out, and the whole place is in a blaze, and this takes rank as an “ explosion,” though in truth it is nothing but the outcome of dirt, carelessness, and false economy. Even, however, if it does not possess a safety attachment, an upset lamp need not entail an accident, if the lamp is caught up at once before the oil has time to heat and then catch alight. If it does, the only thing is to smother the flame with a heavy rug or curtain. The only other thing that will put out petro- leum is sand; so a large vase may be kept in some corner full of this in case of accidents if people are nervous. To clean the burner, unscrew it from the collar, and, if pretty dirty, take it to pieces (this is fairly easy with a little care and attention, so as to enable you to replace it properly); then place these pieces in a pan kept for the purpose, with a knob of soda about the size of a walnut, pour on to this sufficient cold water to cover it all, bring this well to the boil, and let it continue to boil for a few minutes till the pieces appear clean; then lift them out^ rinse first in clean, hot water, and then in cold, dry lightly with a cloth, and put them in some warm place till perfectly dry, after which replace them in order, tit on the burner, and the lamp is ready for use. It is always well to make this monthlj' cleaning of the burner coincide with the putting in of a fresh wick, and a thorough cleaning out of the container, when the whole thing will start fresh and in good order. By the way, a piece of camphor, about the size of a hazel- nut. or a saltspoonful of salt, added to the oil in the container improves the brilliancy of the light wonder- fully. Always remember to wipe the neck of the lamp carefully after lighting it, for when a lamp is no longer quite new the oil oozes into the cement round the collar, and, if any of this is left moist, directly the lamp becomes heated it gives off a most offensive smell. This is generally the reason for the prejudice against lamp stoves, which are usually worse treated, in the matter of cleanliness, than lamps, which is saying a good deal. It must be remembered that everything said of lamp trimming applies equally forcibly to the trimming, clean- sing, &c., of lamp stoves.