HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 1 KO For napkins, as said before, it is always best to adhere to one size, pattern, and quality as then they work in well together. Of course, this hint is only for small households. Napkins are mostly made in three sizes, '22, 27, and 31 inches st^uare, but the most practical size is the middle one. as this does for both lunch and dinner. There is in some houses a fancy for the German fashion of plain or self-coloured linen cloths, trimmed with lace, for lunch, and also for sideboard cloths, and very well the plain, creamy, or self-coloured, lace-trimmed cloths look for the sideboard and carving-table; but in most houses small doubled tablecloths (perhaps too old to spread well) are used for this purpose. As a matter of fact, any woman clever wdth her needle can add to the beauty of her linen cupboard at very small money cost, by working or making tray, tea, or sideboard cloths, ■with embroidery, Ru.ssian and drawn work, lace, (fee., as she pleases. For kitchen tablecloths, buy the strong unbleached linen cloths sold for the purpose. With regard to the “cloths,” it is well to buy those w'hich have their nature wo•^'■en in the border, such as “kitchen,” “glass,” “tea.” &c., and, as you value your peace of mind, choose different sorts for each maid, or you will always be a victim to the carelessness or laziness of the other maid. Thus, have the variou,s cloths sacred to the kitchen all red; say, the parlourmaid’s correspond- ing articles, blue; whilst the housemaid has a check all over. In this way you can at once hold each responsible for her supply, and avoid disturbances, because of one having taken the other’s cloths unnoticed. How cloths and dusters of all kinds disappear, none but the experi- enced housekeeper knows, and that much-tried ■woman has even yet not evolved a plan for preventing the flight of such articles, and is still wondering whether it is best to buy cheap cloths, make each maid wash her own (sending a proportion each week to the laundry to preserve their colour), and pass over their non-appear- ance; or to buy better articles, and insist on the return of every cloth given out one week before the next supply of clean ones is given out. But unless the mistress her- .self sees to the making out of the laundry list, and personally superintends the giving out of the weekly allowance, this latter plan is seldom successful. When a nursery has to he provided for, anotber “separate” set of cloths must be gi^ven out, or disturb- ances will be inevitable. Indeed, it is always best, when