HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 12 gets a chance—far more, in fact, than his or her health requires—and would b© much healthier were the’pro- portion of vegetables eaten enlarged at the expense of beef and mutton; but, though you may get housewives to acknowledge this fact, and though the dining-room may be supplied with green vegetables nightly, most ladies consider potatoes amply sufficient for the needs of kitchen and nursery. This, of course, is often due to the necessity of keeping down the weekly bills—a serious matter with most of us—but, in truth, the expense is not nearly so large as is imagined. Even in towns, about a halfpenny a head daily would give a vegetable course to children and maids, to the manifest advantage of their health and well-being. Of course, this does not imply asparagus or green peas at the beginning of the season: but, if the greengrocer is made to bring round a list of the daily supply of vegetables and their prices when he comes for orders, it is easy enough to see what green food will come within the prescribed limits. Whilst, if there is a garden, there should never be any lack of such additions to the daily bill of fare, as soon as you have made the cook understand that you insist on it, and enforce the fact by having the same vegetable for the kitchen as for lunch and nursery dinner. But I must say, in the course of long experi- ence, I have seldom had trouble in this matter. Cheese.—For this the usual allowance is Uh. a head weekly, though where butcher’s meat is not allowed for supper, this amount is often doubled. Soap.—Half a pound weekly for each servant is a rough estimate, and covers both working and personal use, on condition that it is kept for some time before use, for new soap wastes fearfully. It should be bought in quantities, and cut up as soon as brought home, being then stowed away, so that the air can get all round to dry it. Moreover, strict orders must be given, and as strictly enforced, that the pieces are not left lying in pails, tubs, sinks, &c., as this is a patent source of waste, and is, moreover, on© of the most common causes for stoppages in pipes, drains, &c. Candles, Light, Oil, cbc.—-Concerning these, it is diffi- cult to give any very definite advice. It may be observed, however, that, if of good quality, the ordinary bedroom candle (eight to the pound) burns about four and a half hours. Oil is another article best and most economically bought in bulk, if you have safe and con-