19 SERVANTS—ENGAGEMENT, &c. from llio experience of over a quarter of a century’s housekeeping to the wisdom of licr words. Before starting to look for a servant make out a list of the duties you want her to fulfil, and another of the habits and customs of your family, the outings, holidays, visitors, &c., together with the wages, allowances, wearing of caps, &c. Insist on a personal character. AVritten testimonials can never be relied o^n; moreover, even if a written character is necessary, from the mis- tress having gone abroad or from death, there will always be some friend or connection of the last mistress who will testify to the genuineness of the character given. It is a liard thing to say, but the addresses and individualities of such references should always be strictly inquired into. The police can tell weird tales of “personal characters” given by smartly-dressed women in unexceptionable houses, who have proved to be friends of the servant in question masquerading, during the real mistress’s absence, in the clotlies and personality of the latter. I knew of a case where a character was offered from a lady of position, living in an unexceptionable neighbourhood; evei-ything seemed eii regie,, and my friend knew from mntual acquaintance that the lady was all that was claimed for her, and actually in town. So she thought nothing of it when, in reply to her letter asking for an interview, the lady proffered a call, to save time for “the poor girl, in whom she was so interested.” On the day specified a well- turned-out carriage drove up, a well-dressed, well- mannered gentlewoman came in, and answered all ques- tions in the frankest manner, giving a good (but not too good) character, explaining her reasons for parting with the girl in question, &c., with the result that the girl was engaged. As she was dismissed summarily, for dis- honesty and other grave faults, my friend visited the late mistress to tell her her experience. 'The lady was an absolute stranger, and had never even heard of the girl! Of course, the police were called in, and it pi'oved that the soi-disant lady was Lady ^’s maid, who had used her carriage, by the help of her brother-ru-law the coachman, to secure a place for a friend, whose character was too notorious to allow of her getting a reference by fair means! Moreover, seeing the house from which the g'rl comes (together with the appearance and manners of the late mistress) acts as a valuable ground for forming an c 2