HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 68 whoa tarnished is easily rubbed up with a clean, soft leather. But remember, where plate is thus lacquered, it needs no cleaning in the ordinary way, and, at the very worst, only most gentle and careful washing in warm soap and water, using non-soda soap, rinsing well and quickly^ and drying at once. But, as a rule, careful leathering is all that it needs. Where the silver is much discoloured, old housewives give many remedies. One is to mix a little prepared chalk to a smooth paste with sweet oil, rubbing this well on to the stained parts, and finishing off in the usual way. Another method is to make a paste of hartshorn powder (procurable from the chemist) with spirits of wine, applying this in the same way. Many persons skilled in plate cleaning say that this paste is most excellent for producing a brilliant polish on an emergency, and, indeed, even prefer it to whiting for general use. Whiting, as is well known, is simply finely-ground chalk. Another very excellent thing for plate cleaning, which may be used in the daily wash, is a kind of silver soap, which may be prepared thus: Put into a pan 4oz. each of washing soda, yellow soap, and whiting, with one pint of cold water; boil all together till perfectly dis- solved, keeping it well stirred, then pour it into a jar to set; when set it may be turned out and cut into cakes. Some people run this into a dish, and then cut it up when set into bars or cakes. Another useful item in cleaning silver is the so-called silver cloth, which may be bought ready; but they are easy enough to prepare at home. Choose nice soft, clean, old rags of a convenient size, and boil them in one pint of new milk, tO' which you have added loz. of hartshorn powder. After boiling them for five minutes, wring them out, and dry before the fire, when they will be ready for use. The following is also an excellent method of cleaning blackened and neglected silver. Make a saturated solu- tion of hyposulphite of soda (a pound of which can be got for a penny or two, dissolving this in as much, but no more, water than it can thoroughly absorb), and with a soft rag or sponge moisten every part of the dirty silver with this saturated solution. In a few minutes all the black should come off; then wash the piece in warm soap and water, rinse it thoroughly clean with warm water, and dry it. To complete the work make some fine sifted whiting into a creamy paste with loz. each