87 THE OFFICES. season, when they produce a horrible smell and a most disgusting mess in the range, the fire not being suf- ficiently strong to consume them entirely. The proper way is to di-y small quantities of vegetable matter at a time under the fire, ^ter which they can be burnt with impunity. (Few cooks, by the way. know how good dried potato parings and dried orange skins are for keep- ing in and reviving a fire.) A very simple way of testing the condition of drains is to pour down the pipe of the highest sink, or w.c., either two tablespoonfuls of the Siinitas soluble oil. or loz. of oil of peppermint dissolved in three gallons of hot water and if there be a leak or defect anywhere the smell will be apparent at the faulty place, and should be at once attended to. Remember that diphtheria, scarlet fever, typhoid, &c., are all, pri- marily, drain poisons. One of the great occupations of a scullerymaid is dish and pot washing. Now, though this is. admittedly, not a pleasant occupation, it need not be the dirty, me.ssy work it so frequently is. A sink basket, either plain or enamelled, should always fit over the whole of the sink opening. Next, see that you have a eood supplv of boiling water and soda, scrape all the refuse, Ac., off the plates, and put them neatly together; wa.sh such spoons, forks, and knives as have to be washed in the scullerv. first, and set them aside for cleaning ; next take the china, washing the cleanest things first in plenty of hot soapsuds and water, then rinse each separately and thoroughly in verv hot, clean water, placing each article, when rinsed, in the plate-rack till perfectly dry; if you have no plate-rack, drain thoroughly, and rub up with a dry, clean towel. If cold water and wet cloths are used, the china will never polish properl.y. Greasv plates should be wined carefuPv with paper (this being than burnt) before they are washed. Stewpans and saucepans should be carefully washed in plentv of boiling water, in which you have dissolved some soda, washing the saucepans thoroughlv inside and out. Keep a saucer wb-h a small quantity of silver sand beside the sink, and, after washing the saucepans, soap a dishcloth, dip it in the sand, and thoroughly scour the inside of the saucepan, to remove all stains; then rinse well in plenty of warm water, and dry perfectly before putting them away. Frying-pans may be cleaned in exactly the saine way, but an omelet-pan should never he topched with water. After use, the fat should be at