72 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. they often do, to the annoyance of housewives, were it made a practice of pouring a little cold water iuto them directly the wine they contained is finished; this is especially the case with port. To cleanse them in the ordinary way, put a small handful of tea leaves, with a gill each of vinegar and water, and a knob of salt the size of a walnut, into the bottle, and let it stand for an hour or two, shaking it occasionally; then rinse out well in cold water dry with a soft glass cloth, polish with a chamois leather, and leave it, neck downwards, to drain. If cleaning decanters in this way, be careful never to put the stopper in again till the decanter is perfectly dry. Eggshells crushed up in a little salt and mixed with warm water; or sliced raw potato in warm water; or pieces of well-soaked brown paper rolled up and added to warm water, are all i-ecommended for the cleansing of stained decanters, which in either case should be well shaken with warm water, then thoroughly rinsed out with cold. Silver sand is good for brightening glass, but, unle.ss very carefully rinsed out, is apt to adhere to the glass, whilst small shot or “ sparrow hail,” much beloved by meuservants for glass cleaning, is apt to scratch the glass, and so endanger its future brilliancy. Lamp globes, should be washed, like tumblers, at fre- quent intervals, being careful to dust them well before putting them into the water. They should not be dried with a cloth, but stood on a rack, and left to dr3' gradually; never use again till perfectly dry. Always use a wooden tub, or a papier mache bowl for glass and china, as it is less likely to cause accidents. Knives-—These require far more attention than they usually receive. To begin with, a knife .should never be placed in a tub or basin, for, if immersed in water, especially hot water, it will soften the cement which fixes the handle; this will loosen, and the knife will, in a very short time, look untidy and shabby. As, how- ever, knives must be washed, the best plan is to keep a special jug for the purpose, just long enough to take the knife blades without allowing the water to reach the handles; pour hot water into this, with a little soda or ammonia, and leave them in it for a little, after which wipe well, and then rub up the handles; they may then be polished. Now, with regard to polishing knives there is a good deal of difference of opinion. Knife machines, especially good ones, are undoubtedly