PARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS’ WORK. 6y latter catches fire. In ligliting a lamp have the wick turned down as low as you can, actually to light it, and let it burn thus for a few minutes, not turning it up till the chimney is well warmed, as this saves smoke and the flying of the lamp chimney. Always keep the wick turned down low when the lamp is not in use. If this is neglected, the oil oozes up between the collar and the container of the lamp, whici) results in dirt and unpleasant smell. After the wick, the burner requires consideration. Probably it may be news to many people to hear that the burner requires a thorough cleansing every month or so. Yet if this is not done regularly and carefully, the wick holder fouls, the air (on which the safety of the lamp depends) is intercepted through the clogging of the airholes, the oil reaches “flash” point (always a low one in the cheaper foreign oils), the container, whether metal, china, or glass, bursts, and in a minute or two the place is in flames. This is the history of nine out cf ten of the so-called explosions, and though, of course, in a cheap lamp the danger is considerably greater than in a well-made, sub- stantial one, yet dirty burners are by no means confined to poor people’s lamps! Some time since I was con- sulting a well-known lamp maker on this subject, and he told me: “ I always now look at the burner the very first thing when a lamp is brought to me for repair, and in nine cases out of ten I find it the cause of the trouble. Look at this,” taking a burner from a drawer as he spoke. It evidently belonged to a large and costly lamp, but anything so filthy I never expect to see again I It was clogged with dirty, corroded oil, charred wick, even dead flies, and, of course, the gauze protector was hope- lessly closed up. “Well, that beauty came out of a very expensive lamp I sold to a customer rather over six months ago, and he brought me back the lamp the other day, in a towering rage at ‘ the utterly worthless kind of lamp’ I had recommended. I promised to see to it, and asked him to call back in a day or so. This is the burner! I cleaned the lamp container, which had very evidently never been emptied out since it left my shop, and fitted on a fre.sh burner, and, when the customer returned, I lit it. It burned admirably. He asked me what I had done, so I told him, but had very hard work to convince him that this really was his burner. How- ever. he took the lamp back, and has since written to say it is burning admirably, and gives no trouble. In short.