HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 8 allowance, though, as a matter of fact^ a quart a week a head for adults is generally found sufnoient. But hero again varying habits must be taken into cojisideration. This quantity of milk was reckoned in the days when beer, or its equivalent, was invariably given, and adults only drank milk with their tea or coffee. Nowadays in many houses where “No beer or beer money” is the rule, a larger proportion of milk is permitted; at the same time, the fact that milk (especially new or unskinmed milk) is a food far more than a drink should be bcrne in mind, both in the kitchen and the nursery. Far more childish ailments than mothers wot of are due to children, past the milk diet stage, being allowed to drink pure milk freely as an accompaniment to a generous diet of meat, vegetables, and puddings, with the natural consequence—upset digestions. Where however, children are, from age or ill-health, dependent on a milk diet, a quart of pure milk a day a head is no extravagant average. An unstinted supply of pure, wholesome milk is the secret of health in later years, but it must be given as what it is, the staple food, not as an extra to an already generous diet. In the country skimmed cr buttermilk is an excellent beverage for children past the milk food age, and, indeed, for adults also. Remember also that, if “glasses of milk,” very milky puddings, or cafe au lait, &c., are the rule upstairs, these must be allowed for extra in the milk bill; also the fact that the dining-room sets the fashion for the servants’ hall, which must all be taken into consideration. Bacon, if the principal addition allowed at breakfast, should be calculated at 11b. a head weekly. The average slice is generally reckoned at from loz. to l^oz. So the 11b. a head is a fair allowance. Sausages, again, run six to the lib., and even for a man Ub. for break- fast is generally more than ample, and few women would take as much. Of course, the bacon need not be always fried or broiled. Needless, presumably, to add that in these, as in all allowances, a hard and fast line should not be drawn ; you cannot, and need not, measure the slices of bacon or count the sausages, but one must have some sort of guide by which to reckon up the needful quantities and to check the expenditure. Meat.—For this, the allowance of from Hh. to Jib. a head daily sounds rather a small one, but it will be found at the week’s end, in a well-kept house (of not