PARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS’ WORK. 61 There has been some discussion with regard to the material of lamp containers, but, if of good quality, there is really very little difference m the safety of metal, china, or glass; indeed, more than one good lamp- maker has asserted that the latter i.s even to be preferred to metal, as being cooler, and its transparency tending to ensure the cleanliness of the oil, on which the light so much depends. Very cheap lamps of inferior quality are never .safe, though, with care, cleanliness, and good oil they can be made to work very satisfactorily; but the least neglect of any of these points will meet with sharp punishment. Unfortunately, the people who burn cheap lamps all but invariably use cheap, unrefined oil with a very low flash point, and seldom, if ever, realise <-he necessity of cleaning either burner or container, with results only too frequently chronicled in the daily papers. It is quite possible to get inexpensive, but abso- lutely safe, lamps by going to respectable makers, but, of course, these will not compete in price or decora- tion (?) with the flashy, so-callod artistic, lamps sent from abroad, and costing but a few pence each. The difference is, the one is made to burn, the other to sell. One word>as to lamp chimneys. These should, if pos- sible, never be washed at all, but cleansed with a proper lamp chimney cleaner or brush. If in a very bad condition and smoke stained, cleanse with a thick paste of whiting mixed with methylated spirits, or else use dry salt, and polish with an 9H soft newspaper (good housewives say that something in the printers’ ink always gives brilliancy to glass, and for that reason use it to polish windows, juirrors, &c., as well as lamp glasses). If it is absolutely necessary to wash the chimney, wash, and rinse well, then put it aside, and do not use it till bone dry. Some people put the lamp glasses on before use, in cold water, brin^ this slowly to the boil, let it continue to boil for a minute or two hard, then lift the pan off gently, and do not touch the glass till the water round it is perfectly cold. This is said to harden the glass. With regard to the amount of oil used, an ordinary small lamp holds a full pint of oil, whilst the ordinary large duplex takes nearly a quart, and in winter will nearly burn that out in one evening. It is, therefore, fairly easy to reckon for oneself the amount needed for one’s household. If there is storage, it is always more satisfactory to buy oil in bulk, drawing off the required