PARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS’ WORK. 63 ill a plate chest or a dry drawer, lined, if possible, with green baize. Pieces of pure camphor stored with the silver are said to preserve its brilliancy wonderfully. Forks and spoons in daily use should be placed in a proper baize-lined plate basket, containing divisions for the difiFerent kinds and classes of plate. This basket, by the way, should be cleaned out weekly, turned upside down, patted gently, and then the baize thoroughly brushed, to remove any risk of dust or grit, for it can- not be too strongly insisted on that all chances of scratching (which with so soft a metal are, unfortunately, but too common) must be scrupulously avoided. If silver is treated in this way whenever used, once a month will be generally found quite often enough for the regular “clean.” When cleaning silver, however, it should be carefully examined for stains, indentations, or other in.iuries. The stains may usually be treated by oneself, but the bruises, &c., should be seen to at once by a good silversmith. At the same time, warn your servants that silver is veir easily damaged, and insist on their being careful with it. In old days the best silver was invariably washed and cleaned by the ladies of the household, who could afford the time and trouble (and had a personal interest in the thing.s) to do them properly, and thus to minimise the risks. Now this, in many cases, the parlourmaid is not able to do, and often, not having any personal interest in the matter, does not pay much attention to the subject. Before describing the regular clean, it may be as well to give some hints with regard to the ordinary washing of plate. Never lean forks or spoons against the table to clean them, as, if you do so, you will almost inevitably bend or twist them, for, unconsciously, you press too heavily on them in your attempt to secure a good polish. A very good little machine, or utensil, has been intro- duced for cleaning forks especially; the leather-covered surface is divided so as to cleanse between the prongs of the forks (a very necessary precaution, which, when no such utensil is at hand, must be effected by drawing the leather backwards and forwards between the prongs to produce the polLsh); but, even so, there is a risk of over-pressure, and it will be found better to hold forks and spoons in the hand whilst cleaning them; good plate cleaners say that no rubber is so effectual as the ball of the operator’s thumb, but this, of course, involve.s hard work.