85 THE OFFICES. marked effect in reducing both these bills. A con- venient plan, and one which, moreover, saves mistress and maid alike from dropping into a culinary groove, is to have a menu book, and to write down each day the day’s meals, both in dining-room and kitchen, and, of course, nursery. Now, in ordering meals, especially in the dining-room, a mistress should always study hor intended menu carefully, not only to secure dainty and well-served dishes in their correct sequence (which, of course, require duo consideration), but also how, as far as possible to save her cook. The time each dish will require, roughly, to prepare, as well as how they are to be cooked; so many roasted, stewed, or baked; and then calculate your pots and pans and oven accommo- dation accordingly. A vei’y dainty little dinner, good enough for anyone, can be easily prepared, single-handed, by a cook, who would (and justly) complain of the trouble involved by an apparently much plainer one. For instance, boiled turbot and hollandaise sauce; roast leg of mutton; duckling and green peas; with baked apricot tart, will probably involve more grumbling than sole au gratin; casserole of chicken, broiled fillets of beef a la russe ; sardines a la diable; and an ice; because so much of the latter dinner can be prepared beforehand, and the cooking of the rest involves no interference in the use of the cooking media. The next place to consider is the scullery. This, like the kitchen, should be light and well ventilated, and, like it, should have a tiled or flagged floor, or, failing this, be covered in the same way with a strong, self- coloured linoleum, which should be wiped over daily with a damp cloth, well dried, and rubbed up witli a little furniture polish, or turpentine and beeswax, as treated thus it is easy to clean and keep in goou con- dition. There should bo a good sink, preferably of Doulton ware, as this is easiest to clean and keep in good order. If it is a leaden one, to clean it, mix to- gether a pennyworth each of fuller’s earth, soft soap, and pearlash, thoroughly, with a quart of boiling water, and bottle it. Wash down daily with a flannel dinned in this, then rinse thoroughly. For ordinary sinks, a thorough scrubbing with hot water and soda, then rins- ing, first with hot water and then with cold water, answers admii-ably. Weekly, loz. of permanganate of potash dissolved in three pints of boiling water should bo poured down everjr sink, bqth pipe, lavatory pipe, &c.,