HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 1-20 porfectly ineltod, stirring it well now and again. Directly it is all dissolved, lift off the pan, and leave till cold, wJien the fat will be in a cake on the surface, and can be lifted off whole. Any dirt, &c., adhering to the under side may be scraped off. Then melt this clarified fat once more; meanwhile stir a can of Babbett’s lye (a well-known American preparation) in a quart of cold water till thoroughly dissolved, stirring it with a wooden skewer, and setting it aside to cool (it heats up when added to> the water); now lift the dissolved fat from the fire, and pour to it the cooled lye very slowly, adding two tablespooufuls of ammonia, and stirring the mixture constantly from the beginning till it begins to set, i.e., twenty-five to thii-ty minutes; when this is perfectly hard cut it into squares or bars. This makes a hard, white soap, excellent for laundry purposes, which will float in water. The above quantities make about 81b. of soap. The above recipes have been frequently asked for by Queen correspondents. Stags’ Antlers and Horns.—These should be kept regu- larly and thoroughly dusted with a stiff, short-haired brush, as moth gather in the hair, &o., at the roots of the antlers, and also in the cloth on which they are mounted. They should be freely dusted with bitter apple, powdered naphthaline, or any moth destroyer successful in the neighbourhood. Buffalo horns and such like may be kept in brilliant condition by leather- ing them, or rubbing them over with a soft cloth on which you have rubbed a very small quantity of vaseline. Steps, Stam, to Keep in Condition.—Boil together half a pint each of size and blue water, with two table- spoonfuls of whiting, and two cakes of pipeclay, each about the size of half a small cake of soap, in two quarts of water. Wash the stones well over with a flannel slightly wetted with this mixture, and, when di-y, rub them with a flannel and brush off the dust. For blue water dissolve suflBcient stone blue in half a pint of water to bring it to the required shade. to Clean.—Mix powdered chloride of lime with cold water till of the consistency of very thick whitewash, then apply this thickly all over the steps with an old brush; leave it for several hours, if possible all night, then wash it off with plenty of cold water, and lastly clean the steps as usual. Excellent for removing green stains left by damp. Stone Floors.—It is best not to wash these too often,