THE OFEICES. 83 destroy the sickening smell of burnt milk, sauce, &c., and a cup of it stood on the stove removes the odour of cooking onions. But the two points for keeping the atmosphere of a kitchen sweet are cleanliness and thorough ventilation. A cook should always remember tliat smell ascends, therefore, she should keep her kitchen door closed whilst airing her kitchen, or the cold air coming in through the window. &c., will drive all the kitchen odours right through tue house. (It is for this reason so many people advocate the kitchen being on the top floor of the house.) By the way, if fat catches in the pan, as sometimes happens, put some raw potato or sliced onion in the fat, and sprinkle the stove with vinegar; this neutralises the smell. To clean a gas stove, remove the bars from the top, wash them in very hot soda and water, then blacklead both them and the gas rings. Cleanse and brush up all the brass and steel work, burnishing the latter, and well cleanse the oven shelves with hot water and soda, rubbing up the enamelled pai'ts with a flannel dipped in salt. It is a wise plan for the mistress, if she does not herself know how the range and gas stove should be cleansed, to get a workman in from the maker’s, and get him to teach the cook thoroughly how they are to be cleaned. Remember that one frequent cause for the coldness of the bath water, such a constant source of friction, is the sooty condition of the flues. So when trouble of this kind arises, see for yourself that the damper has been really pulled out properly, and, next, that tne flues are perfectly clean, and then (but not till then) send for the workman to investigate the trouble, which, in that case, may be due to the choking of the pipes from the hardness, or chalkiness, of the water, and would be a source of actual danger. Another point is the boiler, and this needs attention, for any acident to this mostly moans a bad accident, or, at the least, a great deal of inconvenience. It should be cleaned out at regular intervals, the supply of water should be attended to, and, if by any cause this is cut off, the kitchen fire must be at once put out until the trouble has been rectified. Failing this, there will pretty certainly be an explosion, as the boiler will burst. The Eagle Range Company have brought out a small vent, which can be affixed to the boiler, which, on the least strain from extra steam, flies out, relieves the G 2