8G HOCJSEHOLD HINTS. both inside and outside the house, the drains being flushed two or three times a week besides, with hot soda water; this treatment should be daily for sinks, the first flushing being supplemented by a second of boiling water, to dissolve the soap which will form inside the pipe from a combination of the soda and grease, which, if left in, would speedily choke the pipe. It is well to observe here that the waste pipo from a sink should go through the scullei-y wall, opening into the air about 12 inches above the gully trap leading into the drain, as this prevents any chance of the smell blowing back into the house. Rut, remember, after throwing any dirty or evil-smelling water down the sink, to let the tap run for two or three minutes, full strength, toi flush it thoroughly. Besides the sink, there should be a strong, though small, table, two or three shelves, to hold crocks, extra pots, &c., and a pot stand. This last, though it should be indis- pensable in every well-found house, is not nearly so common as it should be. It consists of an iron frame- work, graduated to fit the various pots, which can be left reversed on it. exposed to the air. the lids being arranged on a shelf above. This keeps the pots in ex- cellent condition, and saves any chance of their acquiring a musty flavour, which they will do if left standing covered up. One more article most essential in a scullei'y is a galvanised nail, for the accommodation of any refuse, &c., and this pail should certainly have a lid to prevent damn, which would cause an unpleasant smell. Whilst on the subject of refuse, it is well to observe that no animal or vegetable refuse should, under any circum- stances, be placed in the ashbin or the dusthole. whether the former be the two-handled, round, galvanised bins on wheels recommended by the sanitary authorities, or the ordinary dusthole fixture, in some wall near the kitchen. The only things allowed into either of these should be the sifted ashes, hopelessly-broken glass or crockery, old tins, and such like, but. under nn circum- stances, any liquid of any kind. Tea leaves should be rinsed, used for sweeping carpets, then dried and burnt. All bones which have been used for soup, and whose goodness has been presumably extracted, should be washed .dried, and then may be thrown into the dust- bin. Vegetable strippings are the most difficult to dis- pose of, as most cooks forget to dry them, and tben tlu'ow them on to the fire in a mass at some copvepiept