129 VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. lifted o«t tie dirt aolr ofa Stee to thi tread, the tUes are wre to come loose Kies stamed with plaster, paint, &c , ^Culd be scoured three or four days successively with strong brine°r which beef or port has been pickled. '"l^toMT’VT'-pSi-Ser.pe any scratched mi£S the edge of a knife rubbed down on a stone to a very obtuse angle. Next polish the shell a drv flaSel dipped in a paste of fine charcoal and water, then with a paste of precipitated whiting and vin^ar, SffiSVrub up the shell well with the pahn of the hand dusted with precipitated whiting; or rub the shel irlu S rottInstoL and oil. next with jewellers’ rouze and lastly with a chamois leather. . accidents wiU happen in the most particular households, it is well to know how to make this as abroad it is not always easy to hiid a skiUea d^orator. The following well-tned recipe, given by an SriSn lady, is excellent and lasting: For a small ceiling slake a quarter of a bushel of unslaked hme with boilinff water, and cover it up closely. To tin add half a peck of salt previously dissolved in wann water, and MXt l^lb. of ground nee smoothly mxed and boiled to a rather thin paste, stirring this mto the wash while still at boiling heat. Lastly stir in 4oz. powdered Spanish white, and ilb- of glue previously melted in warm water. Stir this all well together^hen let it stand untouched for four or five days. When ready to use it, reheat it and use w^lst hot. The ceiling should be first well swept, and lastly well washed before applying the whitewash. A rougher form of whitewash is made by usmg lime alone, without the erround rice. This is excellent for disinfecting purposes. Ordinary whitewash is made by soaking plain whiting in water for twelve or fourteen hours, then adding about half a pint of size for every two and a half gaUoi^ ot whitewash, to prevent its coming off, as whitewash so often does. All these washes may be colour^ to taste with yellow ochre, Venetian red, rose pink, Brunswick green, stirred in like the Spanish white given in the first recipe. The great thing is to add the colour very gradually and in small quantities, to get the precise shade you wish for. , u u,. Windou-s, to CZean.—Wmdows should never be