HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 4U Buck accidents will occur, so give out what is wanted and store the rest for emergencies. After all, the pantry is very likely small, and in a confined space acci- dents will happen. Another part of the hou.se, though perhaps, more strictly speaking, belonging to the kitchen, is the larder. But, after all, this is the cook’s store room, so it may be included m this chapter. If anyway pos- sible, the larder should have a northerly aspect, to ensure coolness, and must be dry, light, well ventilated, and scrupulously clean. The ceiling and walls (if not tiled) should be well limewashed at least once a year. The shelves should, if possible, be of slate; failing this, tViey must be well scrubbed weekly, choosing a dry day for the purpose. The windows, if not of perforated zinc gauze (w’hich is best) should be opened constantly, a sheet of fine muslin being stretched taut, across the window, to keep out flies, &c. If possible, the door should also have the upper panels of the perforated zinc, to ensure a draught. The hooks for hanging meat, &c.. should be arranged on the ceiling in the fine of this draught. If possible, the floor should be of stone, but in any case there must be a slab of slate for the fish, and one for the milk, which must be kept well away from anything likely to taint it. In the country, of course, the butter, ■cieam. and milk would be kept in the dairy. All this will sound a counsel of the veriest perfection to the luckless town housewife, whose larder is probably a dark cupboard, agreeably disposed between the main drain and the dustnole ; still, careful cleanliness and attention will do a good deal with even this unpromising hole. It is possible in most houses to find a passage leading from the kitchen to the area and the back premises, which can be utilised. For this affix hooks in the ceiling for meat, game, &c., and insert wire gauze in the upper panels of the doors at ends, and you will be astonished to find what a satisfactory deputy-laider this makes. Only, when you have to contrive in this way to remedy a small larder, be generous in the supply of wire fly- covers, cane and muslin cages (procurable for a few pence at the’nearest ironmonger) for the joints; hooks, single and double; and last, but not least, a large quantity of larder crockery. Meat, when it comes off the table, should be at once shifted on to a clean “larder” plate or dish, and put away in the larder, but never allow the dinner service to be used for this purpose, for this