91 VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. salt well through it all. When the butter is cool, press it into earthenware crocks, with lids to them (those holding about 71b. are most convenient), being careful to ram the butter well home, and to leave no space.s for the air to get in down the sides, which would infallibly turn it. Now cover with a layer of the salt and_sugar as used in preserving the butter, then with a muslin wning out of well-salted water, and, lastly, the lid fixed on tightl.y: this muslin should be well wetted with salt and water, and replaced each time butter is taken (iut of the crock. This butter needs washing before use if the salt taste is objected to. Abroad, butter is_ stored in the following way for cooking purposes, and, if care- fully done, will keep in good condition for a long time. Buy, say, 301b. of good fresh butter, and put it in a kettle or pan with about four cloves, two bayleaves, and two onions, and leave it over a slack fire to simmer very gently for at least three hours, being careful it never boils. Do not skim it. Now draw it off the fire, and let it stand for an hour, after which skim off the top froth, &c., very carefully, and pour the butter slowly into large stoneware .jars or crocks, without letting ,'uiy of the sediment, which will be found at the bottom of the kettle, get into the crocks. Then place theSe jars in a cold, dark cellar, and next day, when the contents are firm, cover them down tightly with thick white paper, and place a slate or plate over the top. Keep these in the cool cellar, only taking out as much as may be wanted for the day’s cooking, for light and too much air will cau.se it to deteriorate. This is used for the most delicate cookery abroad. A simpler method is to place the butter in a large crock or pan, and stand this in a larger pan. containing boiling water, and let it all cook over a moderate fire for two hours. Remove the scum, and pour the melted butter into stone jars, as before, keeping back anv sediment. Tie the jars down, when the butter is cold and hard, with paper, as above, or with softened bladders. The rest of the butter, sediment. &c., may be mixed with a little more fresh butter, and allowed to cook very slowly and gently till it assumes a brownish tint, when it may be strained through a sieve into stone jars, and covered down as before. This is excellent for household purposes, though not. of course, for delicate white sauces. Butter melted and stored as above will keep good for a year. To keep butter fresh from day to day, when the butter bus just been made,