PA.RLOUR AND HORSE MAIDS’ WORK. 69 of spirits of turpentine and spirits of wine. Now with a clean sponge give the silver a coat of this mixture until you have it all over the piece like whitewash, allow it to di’y completely, then, with a soft pla.te brush, brush the powder all off, and finally polish it with a soft wash- leather. Plate not actually used for eating purposes should be carefully and regularly attended to, silver or plated candlesticks especially requiring attention. Any wax spilt on these should always be removed with a cloth or flannel, wrung out of very hot, soapy water, to dis- solve the grease. Many servants have a trick of wiping this wax off with papei-, or even, worse still, scraping it with a Icnife, but this is certain to scratch and spoil the silver, and silver once scratched will never take a proper Eolish again till it has been sent to the silversmiths to e treated. Silver inkstands and other writing-table implements constantly get stained with ink, which, if treated at once, is easy enough to remove. If, however, it has been allowed to harden on, try washing it in hot borax and water; and, if this is ineffectual, rub the stains with a solution of chloride of lime, rinse them well, dry, and leather. For the lime solution, mix 4oz. chloride or lime to a smooth paste with a little cold water, and, when this is smooth and thoroughly blended, add sufficient water to bring the quantity of water used up to one and a half pints, stir it well together, cover closely, and let it stand for twentj'-four hours, stirring it occasionally. Now let it settle, then skim off any particles floating on the surface, and carefully bottle off the clear liquid, corking it down Avell. If kept tightly corked, this preserves its strength indefinitely. Plated entree dishes, dish covers tunless lacquered), and suoh like are the better for being put into a copper of boiling water in which you have dissolved a small handful of hartshoni powder, and boiled for a few minutes, as nothing else will remove the grease and freshen the plate so well. Of course, the things must be thoroughly rinsed, di-ied, and leathered subse- quently. This need only be done twice, or at most thrice, a year. With fish and dessert knives and forks, be careful never to leave them in boiling water, as this loosens the band of silver that keeps the blades and handles together, and, even if the latter do not come off, they loosen, from the dissolving of the cement, and get