HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 78 tious; when the material is older there is no longer so much danger of shrinking. Obviously, all curtains, hangings, valances, &c., harbour dust. Of course, wash- ing materials aro more to be advocated than serges, woollen stuffs, &o., that will not wash for the dust that clings to such materials must inevitably take away from the perfect wholesoineness of the room. The neatest way to put up valances is to run them on to a narrow wooden lath fixed, or merely laid, on the bedstead itself under the paillasse. The old-fashioned heavy counter- panes, which seemed essential to every householder’s happiness, are going out of use, chiefly perhaps because they ai'o so difficult to keep clean, troublesome to wash at home (unless there is a great deal of space), and very soon ruined by the average laundress; the thinner honey- comb pattern is preferable, or a pretty bedspread to match the appointments of the room always looks dainty and pleasant. Finally, one of the best preparations for cleaning the ironwork of bedsteads is benzine collas; it never cor- rodes, and the smell evaporates very quickly; it is also the best preventive against insects, which sometimes appear' in the most unexpected manner. If any such unwelcouie visitors make their appearance in wooden frames, they are more difficult to treat, on account of the chinks in the wood; nitric acid, however, soon disposes, of the most obstinate cases. It is, perhaps, almost superfluous to give these remedies, and it is to be hoped that they may rarely have to bo called into requisition. Benzine collas is a splendid cleansing substance for iron, which is the principal thing to bear in mind. When, however, this is considered too expensive, pure paraffin is a most efficient substitute, though it requires a good deal of airing to obviate its unpleasant smell, which is the great objection to itsi general use. As no one can work properly without a sufficient supply of necessary tools, it may be well to give a list of the articles required by the two maids treated of respectively. Parlourmaid-—One washing-up tub, one tub (or pre- ferably a papier-mache or “pulp” ware bowl) for glass, &o., one lamp scissors, one lamp leather, one lamp brush or rubber, two plate brushes, two or three leathers, one Selvyt, one plate basket, two knife trays (one for clean and one for dirty), one sink basket and brush, one scrub- bing brush, one carpet broom, one dustpan and double