PARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS’ WORK. 73 great labour savers, but equally certainly, unless care- fully handled, they work destruction to the knives; one cause of trouble is that untrained servants put unwashed, greasy knives in the machine, and so spoil and clog the brushes, and certainly, uidess very care- fully managed, these machines have a tendency to wear down the knife blades, and, in the hands of a careless girl, to break them. But this, of course, arises from the abuse, and not the use, of the knife machine. Undoubtedly one of the most satisfactory methods of cleaning (for the knife owner) is an ordinary knife- board, sprinkled with knife powder, or vei*y finely- powdered bath brick, on which the knife is lightly rubbed backwards and forwards, leaning very lightly on the blade as you do so. If too heavy pressure is applied, it will turn the blade and wear away the point; for this reason some mistresses prefer the knife to be laid on the knife board, and the knife rubbed up with a cork dipped in the powder. Stains may be removed from the blades, either by stabbing them into the earth or rubbing them well with a cut potato. (N.B.—Either of these methods remove the taint of onion.) Always dust knives thoroughly after cleaning them. Should the ivory knife handles become stained, cleanse them with fine salt moistened with lemon juice on a flannel rag. There is a powder called Zampo, which is most excellent for cleaning ivory. Flower vases, especially those used for dining-room decoration, should be most carefully kept, being well washed and rinsed to prevent staining. In many houses the parlourmaid has the charge of the floral decorations, in some the misti-ess undertakes it; but. in any case, there is one strict rule, dirty or stained flower vases and half-wilted flowers are the mai-ks of a slattern. Tho water should be changed daily, the flower vases being well rinsed out befoi'e fresh water is put in, the dead flowers carefully picked out, and a tiny bit of the stems snipped off the rest if they seem faded. A fact that servants are very slow to recognise is that all foliage should be stripped off the parts of the stems that go into the water, as othenvise these decay and foul the water, killing the flowei’s, and producing a most offensive smell. Brasses, &c. Another point to be impressed on par- lourmaids ^yho have charge of brasses, copper, &c., is that no polish should ever, on any excuse, be applied to lacquered articles. If once applied, the metal polish