PARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS’ WORK. 67 fate whiting, tie up a sufficient quantity loosely in a piece of fine old muslin, fasten this to the handle of a jug, letting the bag hang over inside; pour over it sufficient cold water to cover the whiting completely, and let.it stand till the next day, when all the whiting should have passed through. Now pour off the clear water, and put the sediment, which is really the whiting, on to plates, or a dish, on the rack over the hot plate, or in some warm corner, till it is perfectly dry, when you should pack it in small tins, out of the dust. If you like, yon can colour this with a little jewellers’ rouge, which can be easily and cheaply bought. But though some people prefer this colour, the plain whiting is perfectly satisfactory. For use, moisten the powder required with sufficient spirit to get it to the consistency of single cream. Any spirit may be used for this mixing, methylated spirit being about the cheapest; but, when handy, unsweetened giu is considered to give the best effect. (If polishing diamonds or delicate jewellery, Eau de Cologne is the best for mixing the powder.) Having washed the silver to free it from any dust or greasiness (it will not polish properly if the least greasy), dry it, and apply the paste pretty thickly with a soft rag. Now put the article to be cleansed in some warm place, to dry it, and, when quite dry, rub it well with a clean, soft cloth, using a perfectly clean brush to remove any trace of the polishing powder from the embossing or chasing; then rub it well up with an absolutely clean soft leather, and put it away at once. Never handle well-cleaned plate more than you can help, for the heat of the hand is sufficient to tarnish it. For this reason, many experienced menservants and parlourmaids always keep a leather glove at hand when laying their tables, so as to avoid touching the plate with their bare hands. At any rate, when laying a table, a clean leather should always be handy, to give a final polish to the silver at the very last. (The same attention should also be paid to the glass on the table.) Kept in this way, there should be little difl5culty in having the silver in nice condition. For large ornamental pieces of plate, which are prac- tically never exposed to actual use, it is far better, in this climate, to have them lacquered by the process brought out by the Gold and Silver Plating Company, 166. Queen’s-road, Bayswater, as this enables the metal to withstand the effects of the atmosphere, and even