lOG HOUSEHOLD HINTS. proper place, but once they come out should he hunted down ruthlessly. It should be remembered that they are patent disease carriers. Traps are often advised, and, in a way, are very successful, but it is very doubtful if they do not bring as many rats as tliey kill; so the best thing is to call in the builder and have every possible place of enlranco securely cemented up. It is said by country people that if a rat be caught, a bell hung round his neck, and then turned loose, that he will infallibly frighten away his companions. If true I cannot say, but I knew in my childhood an old house where a rat had been so treated, and certainly tliere never seemed to be any others, save the patriarch of the bell! Slugs and Snails.—These are often a great annoyance in houses flush with a garden or backyard. If the parts they affect are well washed with the strongest brine procurable, or with a strong solution of either carbolic acid or sulphate of iron (the chemist will mix this, which is, by the way, a poison, and must be used care- fully), it is often an effectual cure. Common salt, or even bran, strewed in their haunts kills or hampers them, and so renders their destruction easier. Half a pint of strong ammonia, well mixed with three gallons of water, is also an excellent wash for slug-infested haunts. Ivory, to Clean.—If well washed with plenty of soap and water, and then exposed to the sun as you lift it straight from the suds, ivory can often be perfectly cleaned. But remember to keep the ivory well wetted with soapsuds while in the sun and as soon as it is whitened, wash and rinse it well and dry carefully. A little lemon juice in the rinsing water is a great improve- ment. A lemon dipped in fine salt and well rubbed on is also effectual for ink stains, &o. In extreme cases a solution of loz. oxalic acid (poison) in half a pint of water, if well rubbed on with a stiff brush, the ivory being then well washed, dried in a soft cloth, and left for a little near, but not actually in front of the fire, will be successful. Knife handles can be well cleaned thus. Remember ivory washed in too hot water or allowed to steep in it is sure to crack and become unsightly. Lace, Valuable, Old, to Clean.—Fold it neatly, sprink- ling it thickly with dry, powdered magnesia between each fold, and leave it for several days; then shake off the magnesia, which will carry most of the dirt with it,