28 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. especially if the latter be delicate, the nurse’s time will have te be censiderahly devoted to the infant. Occa- sionally in small establishments the nurserymaid is com- bined with the housemaid, and consequently does more housework and less nursery work, whilst the nurse- housemaid is a housemaid who acts as nurserymaid to the mistress, the latter undertaking personally the duties of a head nurse. The Lady’s Maid is entirely devoted to her mistress’s .service, and has entire charge of her wardrobe, .iewellery, &c. She does her mistress’s errand.? if required, packs and unpacks for her, and waits on her in every way if unwell. In largo households she does absolutely no housework of any kind, though in smaller ones she will dust and keep tidy her own and her mistress’s room; sho expects a bedroom and work-room, or a combination of the two, ranks amongst the upper servants, and wears neither a print dress nor a cap. Young Ladies’ Maids differ only in degree from the lady’s maid proper, under- taking to help the housemaid in the bedmaking and the dusting, and keeping their own rooms clean and tidy, but doing no grates or heavy work. The Zhseful Maid is usually a confidential servant, who very often combines with waiting on her mistress some, at least, of the duties of a housekeeper. Her work differs in almost every house, consequently what is required of her should be explained very clearly at the time of engagement. First-class hair dressing and dre.ss- making is not usually demanded of her. though she would make or mend simple things. Amongst the duties carried out by this class of servant are the charge of the house linen, the arrangement of the flowers in the house, the dusting and bedmaking of her mistress’s and the young lady’s room, and the dusting of the drawing-room; she also occasionally answers the door or brings in tea during the parlourmaid’s absence, .and sometimes helps to wait at table. Of course, all these duties are not expected from one and the same maid. The Schoolroom Maid is a combination of housemaid and young lady’s maid ; in fact, she is usually in training for the latter position. She does out the schoolroom, waits on the schoolroom party, carries up such meals as are taken in the schoolroom, and washes up the tea and breakfast things belonging to it. She waits on the governess, helps in doing out the children’s and gover- ness’s rooms, mends and looks after the children’s things,