SERVANTS—ENGAGEMENT, &c. 29 helps the ohildreii with their toilet, iuid goes out with tliem when necessai-y. The Sutler.—To this functiouary belongs the care ot the wine and the plate. He is responsible for the work, behaviour, and appearance of the men tmder him; he carves, superintends the waiting at table, and is respon- sible for the condition of the billiard, dining, and smoking rooins, and their addenda, also the condition of the carriage rugs, lamps, brasses, &c., and, where no valet is kept, lie usually waits on his master. Where only one footman is kept the butler is also expected to help in the plate cleaning, to answer the door, and to attend to the sitting-room fires when the footman is out. The butler generally expects to go out every day, either in the morning before lunch, or before dinner in the afternoon, as may be most convenient to his employers. He also ai'ranges the going out of the footmen. The butler, even when he does not arrange the flowers, is responsible for the condition of the flower vases, and other table decorations; and in the country is respon- sible for everything connected with the shooting lunches, flasks, &c. The Footmen simply do the work under the super- vision of the butler. They attend to the plate cleaning, the lamps, the dining-room table knives, the glass, and panti-y work generally; wait, answer the door, attend to the sitting-room fires, answer the bells, valet the young gentlemen and the masculine visitors, carry up luggage, call cabs, &c. Of course, where there are two, the upper footman takes the responsibility, the under one doing all the drudgery. In some houses the polish- ing of the dining-room and smoking-room furniture and floors form part of the footmen’s work; whilst, if no odd man is kept, the under footman should clean the windows, boots, and knives, and fill the coal scuttles. But these points should be made vei'y clear indeed at the time of engagement, or they will certaiaily lead to ructions later on. Where two or more footmen are kept, if one is required to go out with the carriage, either one is kept for this service, or it is taken by each alternately. N.B.—Where menserv^ants are kept, no women servants should ever be seen in the front of the house after breakfast time; before and during which the housemaids are, of course, responsible for the cleaning of the rooms. A Single-Handed Manservant is a combination of