47 THE LINEiST CUPBOARD. will lielp to air the linen. (Apropos of this, it may bo mentioned that in a house with a hot and cold water supply, a small hot closet can frequently be fitted up in the cistern room at a relatively trifling expense, and is both economical and convenient.) h ailing a satis- factory cupboai’d, the best thing is a linen press, fitted with drawers and trays for the various kinds of linen in use, and for town houses thesei are bad to beat. One of the nicest is the “ Whyte-Walton linen press, ” which is most practically fitted up, and can, I believe, be had in various sizes. If you have a suitable wall cupboard, there is one precaution that amply repays the small amount of cost and trouble it involves. This is to fit a slender wire rod close under each shelf; make some curtains of glazed calico, or, preferably, of thin glazed holland, long enough to come down and cover the shelf completely, and to fold over its contents, thus preserv- ing the linen from dust, Ac.; these are then slipped on to the rod by means of a caser, and the linen laid on the shelf inside this curtain. These curtains, of course, must from time to time be washed. The great thing in arranging either a linen press or cupboard is to have everything close at hand and easy to reach; for, to insure fair wear, each article should, when brought back from the wash, be placed at the bottom of its particular pile, the clean things being given out from the top. Regular wear is the best pre- ventive of mildew, whilst linen lasts much better if not used continuously. In large households a linen book is kept, in which every item is marked down, with its price and date of purchase, space being left after each entry to record any alteration in number, condition. &c. Be- sides this, a list of all the articles actually contained in the linen press or cupboard should be written out clearly (but without the notes, &c.), and nailed to the door of the press for constant reference, the linen and this list being checked at special intervals by compari- son with the previously mentio'iied book. Of course, in smaller households this arrangement can be modified to suit individual requirements, but it cannot be too strongly insisted upon, that the more housekeeping, in all its branches, is put on a strictly methodical and business footing, the better it is for all concerned. It may be here observed that in some very large estab- lishments the linen belonging to each separate bedroom is often kept in a drawer, or small chest, in the room