PARLOUR AND HOUSU MAIDS’ WORK. 7i soapy water, but if there is the least gilding on the china, never use any soda, as this almost always destroys the brilliancy, and, indeed, the actual existence of the gilding; rinse thoroughly, and dry with a soft teacloth. Soda, as a matter of fact, is seldom, if ever, needed for delicate china, as a flannel and hot water easily remove any grease there may be; also- remember that hard rubbing destroys the colour on painted china. Teacups or teapots stained with tea should be rubbed with dry salt, which will completely remove the mark. Never place any delicate china into boiling water, or in a hot oven, or it will almost inevitably crack. Of glass there are many kinds, each requiring care in the washing if the best effect is to be produced. Tliere is moulded glass, which is made by pouring molten glass into steel moulds. This is the cheapest form of glass, but, if kept clean and bright, looks very well for ordinary purposes. The well-known cut glass, the most expensive form, has every facet cut separately on the surface of very clear, thick glass, and then has to be most care- fully polished after cutting. The cut glass made in England is said to be a specialite of that country, unrivalled by any other form made abroad. To keep this clean it must be thoroughly well brushed out before washing, to prevent any dust clogging the cuttings. Engraved glass requires no special treatment. Frosted glass, which, if good, is also expensive, requires to be kept most scrupulously clean if to be seen to advantage. All glass, especially drinking glass, is improved by being willed in ammoniated soapy water, which should be fairly hot. but not boiling, then thoroughly rinsed in clean, cold water, and left upside down to drain on a tray or rack; dry with a clean, soft glass cloth, and polish with a leather. Tvvo or three times a week a little vinegar may be added to the rinsing water, as this brightens the gl^ greatly. The rinsing water should always be cold; if it is hot, the glass will look smeary and cloudy. Wineglasses are washed in the same way, but care must be taken in drying them, for, if not care- fully held, nothing is easier than to screw off the bowl from the stem. If tumblers have been used for milk, or wineglasses for gravy for a child, cold water should be at once poured into them to rinse off the grease and prevent its sinking into the glass, arferwards cleaning it as above. Decanters would seldom, if ever, get into the state