VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. 125 Ink Stains-—To be successfully trrated thes"' should be attended to at once, for, if left to harden in, they are distinctly troublesome. Quite the safest thing; for fresh stains is milk or hutter-milk; dip the stained parts in this till the stain disappears, after which wash it out thoroughly; it may. however, require to soak in the milk for a little. Ink may be got out of almost any material in this way. For instance, if it has been spilt on a carpet, rub the stain well with milk, changing this till it no longer discolours, then rub the place well with a little diluted ammonia. If just spilt, ink may easily be removed by sprinkling the place well with salt, brush- ing this up directly it is discoloured, and putting down fresh till the salt is nO' longer stained. An old-fashioned remedy for inkstains on wool or cloth was to rub these first with vinegar, then with dilute oxalic acid, rinsing it finally in plenty of clean water. Nowadays Sanita-s fluid is much recommended for removing ink and other stains. To use oxalic acid, dissolve a teaspoonful of the acid in a gill of hot water, rubbing the stained part well with this solution, and allowing it to di-y on. Tliis is much recommended for carpets. With reference to these, it must be mentioned that hot water is fatal to Brussels carpets, as it melts out the size used in stiffen- ing the back of the carpet, therefore, cold application should only be used for this. Rubbing inkstains with a cut lemon or a cut tomato is also said to he a capital remedy. For red ink, much diluted nitric acid is recommended. Inkstained linen may he either soaked in milk or treated thus; Strain the cloth tightly across the mouth of a hasin full of boiling water, letting the strained part just touch the water, then rub well with salts of lemon, repeating this till the stain disappears, after which rinse well, and dry in the open air. Re- member salts of lemon and oxalic acid are both poison, and should be used carefully. Some people dip the stained cloth first in milk, and then in an oxalic solution, half the strength of that given above, finally rinsing well, and washing in the usual way. ’ Inkstains on leather may also be treated with milk very satisfac- torily, polishing after with a little ammonia in case of its greasing it. If old, the best thing is to drop sweet spirits of nitre on the stains with a quill, washing this off with a damp sponge, and, finally, drying and rubbing up with an old silk handkerchief. This' is also an excel- lent plan for inkstained furniture; but in either case