SETTING UP HOUSE. :i his better lialf, is blissfully unconscious that house- keeping is not necessarily bora witli every woman, but is an art to be acquired, be is first puzzled, then worried, and, lastly, cross. Believe it who will, it is nevertb^ less a solemn fact that more domestic happiness is wrecked yearly over housekeeping than over any other rock, be it what it may, in life’s ocean. Before setting up house, it is as well to set down one’s expenses. There are certain averages concerning these expenses, did one but know it, though it must be at once admitted that in the present day these ideals are impossible to car^ out perfectly; still, the nearer we can aiTive at the ideal condition, the more gracious will be our estate. To begin with, rent should, roughly speaking, be covered by a tenth of the actual income. Formerly this sum was supposed to clear all expenses connected with the liouse, such as rates, taxes, &c. Now, alas! it is barely, if even nearly, suflBcient to cover the payment for the house alone, and a further sum, delusively reckoned as a third of the net rent (this seldom, if ever, is enough in towns), has to be set aside for these necessary evils. Servants’ wages, again, are reckoned at about a twelfth of the net income. Food will take quite a third, this, however, including laundry. Light and fuel juay be reckoned at one-thirtieth of the total income. Let us work this out on the basis of an income of £1200 a year. Kent, at one-tenth £120 Hates and taxes, one-third ot rent 40 Wages, one-twelfth of income 100 Food and laundry, one-third ot income 400 Dress, <Sc., one-twelfth for each, say 200 Light and fuel, one-thirtieth 40 Total £900 Thus leaving one fourth, i.e., £300, for doctor, wine, subscriptions, travelling, &c. This is the ideal dis- tribution of the income, but, as said above, it is very seldom possible to work it out exactly. Circumstances alter cases. For instance, the above is taken on the basis of a couple, with four servants, living thoroughly comfortably, though not extravagantly; but naturally the sums given will have to be manipulated as the family grows, and little feet have to be shod, little mouths filled, and schooling has to be considered. Still, with intelli- gent good-will, the above estimate allows a fair margin for extras, and, if the income affords no prospect of