;h HOUSEHOLD HINTS. round the middle of each stick. To use this instrument, slip the wire round tho stuff to be cut. and, holding both handles in one hand, draw it steadily through tho material till the latter is divided. Thc.se may be seen in operation any day in a cheesemonger’s, and are in- finitely better for cutting cheese or soap than a knife. A good set of scales should also form part of the store room outfit, together with a slate, with pencil attached, and a book slung to the same hook, in which should be inscribed the dates of purchase and giving out of the various stores. If possible, it is weU to keep in tho store room a small tool chest, as there are many littlo things about a house which a handy woman can repair (and thus save the expense of a workman) if she has the necessary tools at hand. Please, however, see that the tools are strictly returned to the storeroom when done with, as nothing is, apparently, easier to mislay than a hammer, a screwclriver, or a pair of pliers. In the emergency or medical cupboard it is well to keep a few remedies for instant application; amongst these I should mention a Ub. tin of Coleman’s mustard, a tin of mustard leaves, a box of old linen and cotton rags, a length of new flannel, a roll of bandage, a paper or box of safety pins of different sizes, a packet of court-plaister. a roll of diaculum plaister, some gutta percha tissue or oiled silk, Avadding, a tin of lin- seed meal (see this is kept airtight), a bottle each of sal volatile, castor oil, essence of ginger and of hazerme. a good bottle of carron oil (equal parts lime Avater and linseed oil, Avell shaken together, and applied Avith an old rag. and changed occasionally, for burns), lime Avater (un.slaked lime steeped in Avater, a piece of unslaked lime the size of a large Avalnut being ir.fused in a Avine bottle of cold Avater) for bilious sickness, a bath thermo- meter if possible, a large bottle of Calvert’s carbolic, ditto of Condy’s fluid, 3oz. or 4oz. of permanganate of potash (Avith any other disinfectant you please), a large bottle of embrocation (ElHman’s or otherAvise), a bottle of liquorice powder, a bottle of best brandy (to be kept strictly for medical use), a bottle of chlorodyne, a small bottle of ipecacuanha Avine. and any other medicines and medical comforts you may find suitable for family use, together with a medicine measuring-glass and a feeding-cup. By the Avay, it is a good plan, Avhen winter is over, to empty the india- rubber hot-Avater bottles thoroughly, then-fill them with