VARIOUS RECIPES. Ac. 107 Lace, io iP’a.s/i.—Cover a large bottle, say an imperial quart, with fine flannel, and secure it with a needle and thread. Wrap the lace carefully round, spiral fashion, fixing both ends with great care, and cover the lace with vei'y fine flannel or else with clean muslin. Make a strong lather of good, pure soap, and rub the lace and its envelope with it; rinse under a tap, and repeat till tlie lace is quite clean. Then rinse in thin rice water or clear gum water, very weak—rub down to got rid of any excess of this starcli—dip in cool water, and then dry the lace, with the muslin removed, in the sun. Filling the bottle with hot water will expedite this process. When the lace is nearly dry, iron it with a cool iron between very fine muslin, picking out the lace as required. A hot iron makes the lace hard and stiff like common curtain lace. Caro in wrapping the lace on the bottle is care well bestowed, as less picking out is required afterwards. Lace. Gold, to Clean-—The following is a good recipe; loz. of stale bread in fine cnimbs, ^oz. of magnesia, ^oz. of cream of tartar. With spirits of wine make the above into a paste, and apply to the lace with a .small brush. When dry, dust off the crumbs, and rub gently with chamois leather. This preparation will not soil ^ scarlet. Lace, Silver, and Embroidery, to Clean.—If much tar- nished, brush over with liquid ammonia, and rub well with wash leather. Sprinkle the lace with finely- powdered whiting, and bru.sh off with a fairly hard brush. But perhaps the best medium for cleaning such articles is a very dilute solution of cyanide of potassium in water. This is, however, a deadl.y chemical, and the solution is best made up by the chemist from whom it is bought. Nothing is so quickly effective, and, if applied on a sponge tied to a glass tube or rod, no danger to the hands need be apprehended. After removing the tarnish, use a clean sponge. Another nostrum is oxalic acid, also a poison, and applied in the same way. Cream of tartar made into a paste with water can be applied, and then, after some time has elapsed, brushed off with a fairly hard brush. Some people use magnesia, either dry or made into a paste with water, and brush it off when dry. Soldiers, again, use gin for their lace, while others use fuller’s earth. One of the simplest cleansing mediums for silver, either lace or plate, is hyposulphite of soda, cjissolved in watep; jt is an almost instantaneous