HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 98 polish is put ou thickly, it clogs, smears, and inevitably attracts the dust, therefore requiring twice as much labour, if servants but knew it. Worm-eaten.—This is somewhat troublesome to remedy at home, so, unless one is prepared to bestow a good deal of pains on the work, it is better to hand the wood affected over to an experienced cabinet-maker. Jlut, if necessary to be done at home, use a very small oilcan, such as is used for bicycles, typewriters, &c., and fill each individual hole ui> carefully with oil. The worms loathe this grease and, if sufficient is not forced in, to thoroughly flood them, they will work their way out at the other end. When this is done, wipe the surface lightly, and then paint it over with best copal or Spanish varnish, which is colourless, and, if carefiiUy done, is successful; but it requires great pains. —— Buht.—The difficulty about cleansing this is that it is not so much a case of dirt as of the perishing through lapse of time, of the transparent lacquer origin- ally applied to the brasswork, in consequence of which the latter has become oxidised by the air, damp, or, possibly, fog. Only the very tenderest treatment must be used, or some of the inlaid brasswork will get dis- lodged, and this is extremely troublesome to replace. So, if the cabinet or other piece of furnitui-e is really valuable, it is best to send it to an expert. If, how- ever. it must be cleaned at home, wash it very carefully, damping it as little as possible; dry well, and then rub ui) with a little precipitated whiting. Bitch Fine.—This, if dirty, may be well washed with Sunlight soap and water, being careful not to make it wetter than you can help, and diy it as quickly as possible; after this polish well with linseed oil and vinegar. The great secret with pitch pine furni- ture is not to allow it to get dirty, because drastic remedies are very apt to result in destroying the polish. Bruised.—li by any accident polished furni- ture has been dented or bruised, soak the damaged part well with warm water, then double a piece of brown paper five or six times, saturate this also with warm water and lay it over the bruise; then lightly pass a hot iron over it till the moisture has almost evaporated. This may require to be repeated. In very bad cases soak the bruise well with warm water and hold a hot iron directly over, but not absolutely touching, it keep- ing the spot well damped for some minutes without lifting the iron.