HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 102 attention must bo paid to tlieir extirpation, as they breed very fa.st. All the woodwork of the room should be carefully wa,shed over with paraffin (of cour.se, in daylight) the beds should be thoroughly examined and dusted, the mattresses being well brushed with a stiff brush, especially where buttoned down, while sheets of paraffin or turpcntine-steoped brown paper .should bo laid under tho matlres,ses and fastened under the uphol- stered furniture. If this is carefully carried out, aud the beds, &c., inspected and treated as above every two or three days, the plague can bo got under. It is well to remember that in new and not very well-built houses (such as are, unfortunately, only too common in these days) a great deal of the Norwegian pine used in build- ing is infested in this way, so this point should be carefully investigated. Flies.—This is of all pests one of the most exasperat- ing, though, like evei-y other kind, it yields to careful tidiness and scrupulous cleanliness. Where flies abound, the window-sills and panes should bo sponged with a strong solution of carbolic acid, applying this when the .sun is shining and the flies are most numerous. The insects die or necome unconscious in a vei^ few minutes, when they should be swept up and burnt. Oil of sassafras, or a strong infusion of quassia used in the same wa.y, will put flies to flight, though it does not actually destroy them. Where rooms become infested with flies, a good plan is to heat an old saucepan on the fire, close tho windows of the infested room, place the hot pan in it on a couple of bricks, pour a cupful of carbolic acid into the pan, and run out at once, closing the door carefully. Let this stand for an hour or more before returning to ventilate the room. This may have to be repeated, but is, in the end, an unfailing remedy. Sulphur or sulphur pastilles may be used in the same way with the same effect, but the principal remedy is to clear away all rubbish and refuse heaps or stagnant water, if any such exist anywhere near the house. Flies lay their eggs chiefly along window cords, and in any dark crevicc-s, so examine these and the backs of shut- ters, &c. (where they congregate when young), and wash all these places well, either with paraffin, oil of sassafras, turpentine, or a strong solution of carbolic acid. It is easy to make fly papers in this way: Dissolve over gentle heat 6oz. of powdered resin in 2oz. of raw linseed oil, then, whilst warm, stir in thoroughly 2oz. of