HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 88 once poured out of it, and the pan thoroughly rubbed with paper till the paper comes away quite clean. If, by any accident, it should have been burnt or stained, put it on the fire with a little fat in it, pouring this off when dissolved, then rub it well inside with a piece of paper dipped in salt, after which nib it well with iresli pieces of paper till these come away quite clean. The best way of cleaning a stained enamel saucepan is, after well washing it, to scour it with a flannel dipped in salt and crushed eggshells. Remember that, after use. all tea, dish, or glass cloths should be scalded out, well rinsed, and dried on a small clothes-horse, in the open air if possible, or, failing this, before a good fire. As soon as they are dry, which they will be very soon, fold them up and put them away in a drawer till wanted. This takes but two or three minutes, and ensures a good supply of clean, dry cloths. Kitchen One set of scales. One large fish kettle. One smaller fish kettle and fryer. One or two gridirons. One iron boiler for hams, &c. Four to six seamless steel or planished tin stewpans. Two small tin saucepans for milk. &c. One frying basket to fit large stewpan. Three large iron saucepans, and one steamer to fit. One largo frying pan. One small frying pan. One omelet frying pan. One preserving pan. One colander. One grav.v strainer. One egg slice. One fish slice. One toaster. One large double roasting tin to fit oven. Two baking or Yorkshire pud- ding tins. Two iron spoons. One cook’s knife. One set of cutters. One set of skewers. Two larding needles. One steel. Requisites. One mincer. One bread grater. One spice box and nutmeg- grater. One hand bowl. Two zinc pails. One zinc bath or pan. One fender and fire irons. One coal scuttle. Two candlesticks. One coffee pot. One large iron kettle. One small tin kettle. One flour dredger. One pepper dredger. One sugar dredger. One funnel. One mustard-pot. IVfoulds various to taste. One pastry board and roller (a marble s'ab if possible!. Cne chopping-board and chop- per. One meat saw. One tnb. One small towel horse. One set pudding dishes. One set pic dishes. Two to four china basins, lipped. Two to four china Iwsins, plain. One bread nan. One flour tub. One knifeboard.