3G HOUSEHOLD HINTS. niastor, anti is rosponsiblo for tlic hrusliing of his clotlies and tlio monding of liis linen ; if .single-handed, slio has the charge of tho sitting and smoking rooms, with the dusting and care of tho dining-room, though frequently the gi-ates are done for In'r hy the housemaid, wliom in her turn she assists in the making of the double beds. In large households, where, as is frequently the case nowa- days, menseiwants have been replaced by women, two parlourmaids are kept, the duties being divided pretty much as they would he between butler and footman. In smaller houses very often, besides the housemaid, a second one is kept, who is called a house-parlourmaid— that is, she does housework in the morning, belonging to the parlourmaid from lunch-time onwards; of course, she must be dressed for lunch. By the way. when a second paidourmaid or this under parlourmaid is kept, the latter answere and opens tho front door, the parlour- maid proper acting as butler, and ushering in and announcing visitors into the drawing-room. The Housemaid.—Of this class of servant in a large household there are generally two to four, “the first” housemaid being in authority and responsible for tho others; she dora all the lighter dusting and arrange- ment of the various rooms, the under maids doing all the heavy and dirty parts. Where there are more than two housemaids, the .iunior one does not come into the front part of the house at all, her work being confined to the housewoi’k of the nurseries, servants’ room, back stair- case, &c. Where there is no housekeeper the head housemaid is responsible for the condition and comfort of the bedrooms, sitting-rooms, &c., and has entire charge of the bed linen, curtains, chintzes, &c., doing all the mending required with her assistants. Where only one housemaid is kept she is. roughly speaking, responsible for all bedrooms, stairs, &c., and has charge of the bed linen. The “Tweeny” Maid, sometimes also known as the “up and down girl,” is a young girl, who divides her time between the cook and the housemaid, working with the housemaid all the morning, and belonging to the cook from lunch time onwards. She does all the stray ,iobs for which no definite person can be found, and also waits on the schoolroom and the governes.s, if there is no nurseiymaid kept. She would do doorsteps, brasses, boots, find kitchen knives, and very probably will have