THE STORE ROOM, LARDER, &c. 37 cov'er everytliiug as a rule, though if five o’clock teas are rife an extra pound of loaf sugar may be needed now and again. But (and this is a sine qua non) this (juantity implies cane, not foreign, beet-made stuff. Where preserves are to he made it is well to reckon from 12oz. to 16oz. of sugar to evei'y 11b. of fruit. Cane preserving sugar should certainly be bought in bulk. For milk puddings for the nursery, such as rice, barley, *fec., you reckon loz. of cereal for each pint of milk used, though if liked a little stiffer, IJ oz. to 2oz. may be used to the pint, but this average should never be overstepped, and in any case the pudding must be cooked very slowly. Three hours is none too much to give a pudding made with 3oz. to 4oz. of rice, tapioca, barley. »fcc., and three pints of milk. Remember, this plan of slow cooking is an economy, as it obviates the use of eggs, which in this case are not needed. Ground or powdered cereals require a trifle more milk and less time; it may also be observed that most patent cereal foods are improved by somewhat longer cooking than is given in the accompanying directions. Having settled your own store cupboard, do not forget your cook’s, which should be replenished weekly or monthly, as you prefer (the shorter time is usually the best), making her understand that you hold her respon- sible for the stores given out, and that you expect them to last, under ordinary circumstances, for the time speci- fied. For a family of ten to twelve people, living in the usual style with late dinners, savouries, dainty cookery, &c., a bottle each of Lazenby’s Harvey, and Lea and Perrin’s Worcester sauce (the large size) will last about a fortnight (possibly rather more), a large bottle of Burgess’s essence of anchovies will probably last a week or ten days longer, an average tin of Edmund’s Empress curry powder will last about a month, on the basis of two dishes of curry a week. These figures are naturally only approximate, but they are taken from the actual consumption of a family of four to five in the kitchen, and six or seven in the dining-room, the servants being all women. So this may give a certain basis to go on. In towns where space is restricted, it is seldom possible to give up a room for store purposes, so it is best to make an arrange- ment with some firm to have “a standing orderj” as it is called, for so much grocery, Ac., to be sent in once a week, as this, to a certain extent, allowances the