6fi HOUSEHOLD HINTS. qmckly. But leatliers must never be put near an open fire, or into so hot a temperature as to cause them to steam, or they will harden and shrink at once. Bull out and rub well constantly whilst the leather is drying, and, if you like, smooth out last of all with a cool iron. If treated in this way, they will be perfectly soft and like new when you have done. Soap Jelly.—Shred down some soap (or use any odds and ends you may have saved for the purpose) with a knife, which should be kept for this use only; put this soap into a pan, just cover it with hot or cold water, and melt it very slowly over the fire until clear and absolutely smooth. This jelly will keep for several days, but, if used constantly, should be made weekly, at the outside. If preferred, the soap shreds should be placed in a jar, and melted in the oven. Any scraps of soap will do, but remember that the pan or jar, the knife, and the board, ased in its preparation must be kept for this purpose only, for they will flavour strongly and most unpleasantly anything they touch. When making this jelly do not overfill the pan, as the soap is very apt to boil over. Plate, if kept as described above, will not require nearly as frequent cleaning; indeed, once in three or four weeks will be found quite ample, unless in very foggy weather, in which case an hour or two is suffi- cient to taniish irremediably the best cleaned silver. When a regular clean is needed, arrange so as to ensure a good portion of uninterrupted time. You cannot hurry plate cleaning without scamping your work or damaging the plate, so lay your plans accordingly. Collect your cloths, leathers, brushes, &c., and see that they are perfectly clean and free from grease, then look up the silver, and sort out all that is badly stained in any way, and put that aside. Now, with regard to plate powder. There are many very good kinds on the market, but, at tbe same time, there are many consider- ably mixed with quicksilver or mercury, which is injurious to the plate. Silversmiths constantly recom- mend rouge—the non-mercurial kind, of course—and this, like the plate powders (also non-mercurial), sold by good silversmiths, such as the amalgamated firm of Messrs Mappin, Messrs Spink. &«., answer excellently. Still, personal experience leads me to prefer ordinaij plain whiting, especially if precipitated, as then it is absolutely free from any danger of grit, &c. To precipi-