74 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. will spoil the surface of the lacquer and with the best kind will produce a cloudiness which will require to be rubbed off and cleaned up daily if the article is to be kept in good condition. Should the article be of a less gO(^ quality, it will be probably found that the metal polish and the rubbing it involves will not only remove the lacquer, but also the coating of brass, copper, &c., with which the inferior foundation metal is, so to speak, plated. Lacquered goods should be rubbed up with a leather, and, if dirty, washed with a little good soap and tepid water (no soda), and well dried; in extreme cases a paste of whiting and water being carefully applied and then rubbed ofl- Recipes are given in the last chapter for the treatment of various kinds of metals. Mirrors should be well dusted and the frames lightly wiped with a clean cloth. The best thing to rub up the glass is a pad of old, soft newspaper. If the glass has been neglected and smeared, the best thing is to moisten a rag with methylated spirits, dip this in fine, precipi- tated whiting, and rub the glass well over with this (being careful not to let it touch the frame or to come between the lacquering and the glass, as it is then difficult to remove), after which dry with a duster and polish well with a chamois leather. Fly marks can be removed by dusting them with fine, powdered blue, tied up in a soft piece of muslin, after which rub up the spots with an bid silk handkerchief. For the frames, if of good English gilt, they need only wiping gently with a damp leather, and then drying with an old silk handkerchief—of course, after thoroughly dusting the frame. Many frame makers advise a coating of clear parchment size over the gilding (especially if not of the first quality), as this prevents the dirt darkening and discolouring the gold, and allows of the surface being damped with a clean, wet sponge, this being allowed to dry without wiping. Onion water applied with an old, soft rag is not pnly excellent for reviving gilding, but also keeps off flies. It should be applied two or three times during the spring and summer. To make onion water: Boil one large or two small onions in a pint of water till they are quite tender and all the goodness is extracted, then strain and lea,ve till tepid, when it may be used. One of the great duties of a housemaid is the care of the beds, and concerning these a few words may well be spoken. The amount of