7 SETTING UP HOUSE. cooking purposes, is, especially where the family is fairly large, a good working average, though, if butter- soaked scones, or toast, are allowed for tea, either upiitairs or down, or butter is used for basting or frying, these facts will have to be taken into consideration; the same remark applies tO' occasions when entertaining on a large scale is going on, for one cannot make the ricliest sauces, such as supreme, &c., without butter, and that of nrst-rate quality, moreover. Still, a good deal may be done, as Jeanie Deans o>bseiwed, by “timing ain's turns,” i.e., if you have to be extravagant, or, rather, extra liberal in one way, balance this by economy in some other direction, so as, at all events, to keep the average fairly equal. Now, it must be understood that all these allowances are reckoned for a household where the mistress takes an intelligent interest in her house- keeping, and will neither permit nor afford extravagance or waste. It must be plainly stated that economy is inpossible in an establishment where the mistress does not look into things herself, with knowledge and atten- tion; unless, of course, her housekeeping is on so large a scale as tO' be practically a business concern, and, as such, run on business lines. This is the case in some large households, and a very clever upper middle-class housekeeper once roundly asserted that she “never got such a good cook as she did by engaging a kitchenmaid from a certain ducal household.” Her explanation was that the housekeeper (professional, of course), being I'esponsible for the due average of the expenses, took very good care that all under her charge should know exactly what the allowances were, and keep within them ! With a clear head and a finu hand of this kind at the head of affairs, it is wonderful how well the domestic machine will work. Of Sugar, the allowance runs from ilb. to 11b. a head weekly, and this (the latter especially) is comfortably ample for everything. Of course, this includes loaf, caster, and Demerara sugar, but does not, as a rule, include icing sugar. Bread is a very difficult thing to apportion, as tastes differ so much, some people almost living on it, whilst others again hardly touch it. The old rule was Id. a day a head, and for actual bread this works out satis- factorily, though some housekeepers prefer to reckon it at lib. a day a head for women and 21b. for men. For Milk, one-third of a pint has long been the usual