VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. 105 the clothes as au infallible anti-moth specific. It is well to remember that a change in the moth exterminator used is advisable, as after a time the moths seem to become immune. (I have seen moth peacefully browsing on lumps of camphor, whilst bitter apple also appears to lose its power in the ^me way.) But the moment moth is suspected in furniture, &c., it should be well examined at once, and, if the suspicion is verified, the article should be sent off to a cleaner’s to be properly baked and purified. Unless this is attended to, the mischief will spread, and a whole suite of furniture may be ruined in a vei*y short time. If carpets are attacked, raise them, lay a damp cloth under the infected spot, cover with another, then iron heavily and steadily with a really hot iron till the carpet and the cloths are quite dry. If furniture cannot be sent away to be cleansed, the only thing is to put it in one room, hermetically close the windows, and burn sulphur in the room, closing and pasting up the doors, and leaving it for a day or so before opening and airing it. Silvertails.—These queer little creaturc.s, which appear in some houses, are often troublesome to dislodge, but carbolic soap, or the chloride of lime treatment advised for fleas, will, in the end, get rid of them, especially if their point of entrance is found and blocked up. B^asp.s.—The.se, in the end of summer, often become little short of a scoui-ge. The only effectual remedies are the destructioji, in the spring, of every queen wasp met with, and the discovery and destruction of the nest, which is certain to be somewhere close by where they congregate. For their stings, the remedies, especially the boracic fomentation, recommended for insect bites, will be found a relief, as will also a raw cut onion rubbed on the stung part. The same advice applies to hornets, which are verj' plentiful some yeai's. Mice and rats are a sure sign of building defects, though in old houses the walls and flooring are so infested with them that they are almost impossible to extirpate. Examine well the places of entrance (in town houses especially), and carefully stop these with plaster of Paris, mixed to a stiff paste with water and broken glass, or ram up the holes tightly with common hard soda soap. There are a vailoty of mice poisons, but these require care in using in houses where there are cats or dogs or children. The best things are traps and a good mousing cat. Rats in drains aro in tlieir