VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. 103 honey. This may be spread on grease-proof paper with a stiff brush, and placed about the kitchen &c.; whilst pieces of thick twine dipped in this sticky substance may be liung from the chandeliers, &c., and will soon become covered with flies. They should then be flung into boiling water, the string cleansed, rodipped in the mixture, and hung up again. Earwigs.—Houses covered with ivy and other creepers are often much troubled with this insect, and for this reason all the vegetation should be cai-efully fastened back from the window frames and sills, and a layer of insecticide spread on the latter thickly every evening; wliilst vitriol or coiTOsive sublimate can be brushed over the window frames in extreme cases, though the worst of this is it injures the paint. Common petro- leum applied in the same way is also useful. Earwigs dislike light and strong smells, therefore the lighter the house the less chance of earwigs; whilst pieces of sponge filled with creosote or a strong solution of cam- phor placed about the window-sills and where they get in also have a deterrent effect; but, as with ants, the best way is to hunt for the nest, and destroy it by the methods given for ants’ nests. Midges, Mosquitoes, &c.—To sportsmen, and tourists in country places, these most persisent insects, midges or small flies, are a perfect torment, attacking wayfarers in clouds, and even following them for perhaps a milo or two. A good remedy for these is tobacco smoke, or, for non-smokers, try the following: Shake well together ioz. of pure carbolic acid, l-Joz. spiidts of lavender, 1 drachm of oil of eucalyptus, and apply this freely to the collar of the coat or the tie, &c., but be careful it never touches the skin. (By the way, this mixture placed about sick rooms in small saucere will not only keep away flies, &c., but will also act as an excellent disinfectant.) Mosquitoes are, fortunately, not very common in this country, so that the mosquito curtains, so indispensable abroad, are almost unknowm here. Where they do exist, the evaporation of a small quantity of carbolic acid in the room is declared to prevent the incursions of these pests; whilst a 5 per cent, solution of carbolic acid in water, if sponged over the exposed parts of the body before going to bed, is said to protect them almost infallibly from attack. Camphorated oil, vinegar and water, or a few drops of pure ammonia applied to insect bites of any kind, is considered a great soother