HOUSEHOLD HIN-r'S. 82 the proper flue bi'ush as far as you can reacli con-^ veniently. If this is done regularly, the range will only need a thorough cleaning once in ten days or a fortniglit, according to the amount of use it gets. The proper way to clean it is this: Having removed all the ash, <fcc., from the ashpan, firebox, ana hearth draw out ail the dampers, lift out the highest soot-door of the hues, and sweep through this opening with the hue brush as high as you can possibly reach; next sweep each hue in turn, only uncovering each as you sweep it. to save soot from flying about. Take away the soot from the lowest door with a shovel, and also brush all soot carefully away from the top of the stove, of the oven, of the boiler, and the back of the fireplace, sweeping out every ledge and corner in which it can have lodged, as well as the oven itself. If very greasy (which it should not be if properly kept), wash it either with hot soda and w’ater, or rub it well all over with a cloth dipped in turpentine before blackleading it. Wash the tiles with hot soapsuds, drying them well, and whitening the hearth as you would stone steps. Some cooks prefer cleaning their stoves after the cooking is over, in which case they may be recommended to try “ enameline, ” as, unlike blacklead (which must be put on when the stove is cool), this can be applied quite well to hot metal. The oven should be dusted out daily, being well rubbed over at the weekly or fortnightly clean with a cloth wrung out of hot water. The oven shelves also should be at this time well washed in strong, hot soda and water to remove all grease. N.B.—All grease dropped on the hot-plate or the gas stove should be at once washed off with a cloth wrung out of hot water. It is to neglect of this rule that we owe a good half of the “odious kitchen savours” which are put down to the range, but are, in truth, due to the cook’s carelessness and untidi- ness. Another cause of smell is the cooking of vege- tables, such as cabbage, cauliflowers &c. A simple remedy for this, given me by a well-known chef, is to put a piece of charcoal, or a piece of deeply-toasted bread, in the water with the vegetable. (If the water in which these vegetables are cooked is not wanted for a foundation for vegetable puree, for which, by the way, it is very useful—if soda has not been put with it—it should never be poured down the sink, but straight into the drain, or, failing this, on to the garden mould.) Vinegar, if sprinkled on the stove, will also