115 VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. metal may be recommended, O'!' try the following: Three parts fill a large copper with water, add to this a good armful of hay, 21b. of soda, and a quarter of a peck of wood ashes; now lay in the pewter, and boil it all for two to- three hours. Now lift out each piece singly, and clean well with a wisp of hay and silver sand; when clean, rinse it thoroughlv in plenty of clean, cold water (it is on this rinsing tnat its subsequent brilliancy depends), and let it dry in the sun or before the fire. (This recipe was given me by an old family housekeeper who, by it, had cleaned some magnificent pewter which had been put away and forgotten for cer- tainly a centui-y, and, when found, was supposed to be utterly ruined. When I saw it it was splendid. She told me that blackened tin could be cleaned in the same way.) To keep pewter in good condition, nothing beats powdered rottenstone, worked to a stiff paste with soft soap, then into each ilb. of this paste work two fluid ounces of oil of turpentine, till thoroughly blended. Make this paste up into balls, covering each with tinfoil. To use these, well wash the pewter, then moisten a ball with water, and rub it well all over the pewter; let it stand for a few minutes, then rub it off sharply with a clean soft cloth, and polish with a leather. To remove tai-iiish, the best thing is half a lemon or an onion dipped in very fine sand or aslies. In kitcheners a very fine ash will be found collected between the firebricks and the ovens, which, when sifted through two folds of muslin, is capital for any metal cleaning. But remember all these recipes are for cleaning old, pure pewter; if applied to the modern fashionable kind, they might tery likely prove utterly destructive^, as the sui-face in modern pewter is produced chemically, and not, as of old, by elbow grease! Steel, to Clean.—Emery flour and oil made into a paste is about the best thing to clean steel, applying and rubbing this on well, and polishing it, after which rub it over with an oiled or vaselined rag and rub up again; or try emery cloth, if fine enough, say No. 0 or No. 1; but anything coarser, through it seems to produce an effect quicker, scratches the metal badly, and, consequently, it gets dirty again sooner. The ash found in a kitchener (described above), or bath brick rubbed down to a fine powder and mixed with either sweet or parafiBn oil, is a splendid cleanser. To clean steel fenders and other suchlike ai-ticles, rub two bath bricks together, and