HOUSEHOLD HINTS. llu float on the top. Now put this wax in a mortar and pound it with a marble pestle to a smooth paste, adding water to get it the right thickness. Hub the marble well with this, then polish with a soft cloth. Black, to Clean.—If this is real marble, the recipes given above will answer capitally; or if stained, with grease especially, these marks may be treated with a paste of whiting and benzine, allowed to dry on; but' be very careful to do this in daylight as the benzine is very inflammable. Then polish it well with a thick paste of powdered pumice stone and sweet oil, lastly leather well with a chamois. In the present day, however, a great deal of so-called black marble is in reality enam- elled slate, the surface being obtained by japanning it with tar varnish under the application of great heat, which can, of course, not be done at home. A remedy used for this runs as follows: Apply very sparingly a coating of best Berlin black to the damaged surface, then levelling this well either with pumice stone or a steel “scraper”; finish off first with rotten stone and oil, and lastly with dry rotten stone rubbed on with the palm of the hand. Mats, Cocoamit, to Clean.—Hang the mat in a draught or by the fire till absolutely bone dry, then either hang it firmly on a line, or lay it face down and switch, or rather thrash, it well, and hang it against a flat wall or surface; repeat this beating on the other side to get all the loose dirt out. After this wash it thoroughly and rinse well (in rain or soft water) till the water that drips from it on to a white saucer is perfectly clean. Now peg it out well, to prevent any twist or curl up in the drying, beating it again well when dry to soften it and make it flexible. Straw, to Clean.—Wash these well in plenty of warm soapy water, acidulated with vinegar or prefer- ably lemon juice, scrubbing them well and carefully with an old nailbrush if very dirty; then rinse again in clean acidulated water, and put them in the sun to dry. Washed thus, these mats keep ther colour well, but if treated with soda or dried at the fire they turn yellow to a certainty. Matting, Indian, to Clean.—^W^ash well with strong salt and water, and dry at once with a soft, clean cloth. Or it may bo scrubbed with bran water, or else take up tlie matting, and scrub it w'ell with ammoniated water and either Chiswick or Sunlight soap, using a