VARlOlJS RECIReS, &c. Ill moderately stiff brush. Put the matting on a table and wash it a yard or so at a tinie, rinsing it well on both sides, or, better still, drawing it through water after scrubbing it. Water will not injure this matting if of good quality, for, indeed, it wears and lasts better in slightly damp places. Stained.—If the marks are greasy, wash off with ammoniated soapy water, or apply a thick paste of fuller’s earth and water (or the French terre de saumier is stronger), leave it on till dry, and then brush the powder out of the matting very carefully. If the stain is pai'afhn, use benzine, applying this in a circle outside the stain to prevent the latter spreading. This will probably have to be repeated, but will be successful in the end. Remember benzine must never be used near a fire or by artificial light, as it is very inflammable. Metals, to Clean.—Aluminium.—W^h this well in soap and water, and leather it thoroughly, both outside and in. Remember soda must never, on any account, be used with alumi- nium, as it ruins it thoroughly. A little whiting mixed to a paste with water, and applied occasionally, keeps it in excellent order but never allow any patent polishing paste or liquid to be applied to it. Aluminium is perfectly easy to keep in condition, if regularly washed and leathered, and never allowed to stand about dirty. Strong measures invariably spoil the appearance and the surface of the aluminium. As a matter of fact, the same remark applies to all metals. Armour, etc.. Old, to Preserve.—In arinoui-ics all old armour, weapons, &c., are carefully coated with an almost invisible layer of pure vaseline, which is a splendid preservative from rust. Fenders, fireirons, knives, and all steel goods may be treated in the same way, when to be stored^, covei-ing them well with vaseline, and then rolling them up in thick flannel or brown paper. Old- fashioned housekeepers use mutton suet instead of vaseline. Brass, to Clean.—^The best cleanser for this is finely- sifted rotte'nstone, mixed to a paste with good sweet oil, finally polishing with a little dry rottenstone on a leather or the palm of the hand. None of the patent polishes can really compare with this, for though they certainly do clean far more quickly than the old- fashioned methods, things polished with them tarnish much sooner than when cleaned with rottenstone and oil.