VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. 109 Mix Jib. of soda and 11b. of whiting with sufficieut warm water to bring it to- the consistency of cream. Stand tins in a jar in the oven overnight, to keep it warm, and in the morning it will stir into a thick paste. Well wash the mai'ble with soap and water, then spread this paste smoothly all over it half an inch thick; leave it on for twenty-four hours, then wash it off and polish it up with a soft cloth. This may have to be repeated in extreme cases, but it is an excellent and well tried cleanser. Stained.—It is important to know the origin of the stains, as different kinds require different treat- ment. For ink stains, make a thick paste of uuslaked lime and strong soap ley; spread this on thickly with a brush and leave it on for six or seven days, then w^ash it off with soft soap and w'ater, and polish. Ironmould.— Well wash the stains w’ith lemon juice, leave it on for quarter of an hour, then rub dry with a soft cloth; oxalic acid diluted wdth hot water or spirits of wine may also be used, but either must be done very quickly or it will destroy the surface. Grease may be removed ■with a thick paste of fuller’s earth and water, left on till dry, then well rubbed up. Half a pint of soap lees, a gill of turpentine, mixed with a bullock’s gall and .sufficient pipeclay to make a stiff paste, applied thickly, left on for forty-eight hours, and then rubbed off with a soft cloth, is, like the first cleanser, excellent for the mysterious and inexplicable stains that so often deface marble. If stains, however, are deep-seated, it is generally best to call in a marble mason and have the surface renewed. Alabaster.—It is always safest to keep this clean, as cleansing emphatically does not improve it. It should always be kept well dusted. Ordinary good soap and water, once in a way, will do it no harm if ritised off quickly and dried at once with soft cloths. If stained, apply a paste of whiting, or fuller’s earth and water, leave it on till dry, then brush it off and polish W’ith a silk handkei’chief. ■—; — to Re-polish.—Putty powder (oxide of tin, a poison) mixed to a pa.ste with water, thickly applied, allowed to dry on, and then well polished with a soft cloth, is often very successful; so is also the following: Dissolve IJIb. of potash in a gallon of hot water, add to it then lib. vii-gin wax, and boil for thirty-five minutes; after which let it get cold, when the wax w'ill