HOUSEHOLD HINTS. boiler, and saves explosion. This should be on every boiler. It cannot be too strongly enforced on cook and kitchenmaid alike that the only method of keeping a kitchen in good order is to chan as you go along! If, when done with, the pots are at once half-filled witn hot water and a morsel of soda, they can stand till it is con- venient to rinse and clean them, and will be little or no trouble to clean then. (If milk, porridge, sweets, &c., have been cooked in the pan, fill it with cold water, to throw them off the boil, as these continue to cook after being lifted off the fire, so that the addition of hot water would make them burn. If, by any accident, anything should have burnt in the pan, fill the latter with cold water and a knob of soda, and let it boil (for an hour at the side of the stove; then scrub it out with a saucepan brush). A list of kitchen requisites will be given at the end of this chapter, so no more need be said here on the subject, save that it is very false economy to stint a cook, especially a singlohaiided one, ill the matter of tools. She is but human, and. like the rest of us, finds it far easier to serve a person who con- siders her and tries to save her all she can, than one whom she believes (however wrongl.y) to be trying to screw the uttermost farthing out of her. I speak from the experience of years, and can honestly say that, to put it on the lowest grounds, kindness and consideration pay, whilst the difference between a friendly, willing servant, and a grudging, suspicious one, hardly needs remarking. On this point a word or two may be said respecting the ordering of dinner, &c. A mistress should always have a stated time for ordering dinner, giving out stores, &c., by which time the cook and her kitchen should alike be tidy. Where the lady is her own house- keeper, the cook should be prepared with a list of any articles needed for the day’s use, and should have any remains of the previous day’s food tidily displayed, to enable the mistress to use them up in the day’s menu. It is always well to be a day or so in advance with your orders, as this saves any risk of disappointment with the tradesman. Where, however, as advised in another chapter, th'e fishmonger and greengrocer send in their daily price lists, a little margin must be allowed to finable the housekeeper to avail herself of the chances of the day’s supply. Attention to this point has a