14 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. and for producing a clear, steady fire for broiling or stewing in the kitchen, and also as fuel in sitting and bedrooms. For this rea.son, a cinder-sifter sliould form part of the working outfit of both cook and house- maid. This utensil—a wooden box on rockers, with a tight-fitting lid, and a wire riddle or sieve inside—should always be at hand when range or grate is cleaned, as the eontents of the grate are put straight into it, the lid fitted on, and then, without dust or trouble, the cinders are separated from the ashes, and the former can be utilised at onoe in laying the fire. Where this is acted upon, ^cwt. will be found ample (for a kitchen-range cooking for ten to twelve people, with late dinner) for a day’s consumption. This I know from personal experi- ence with a good cook, who, however, used her cinaers, and always kept a small fire when there was no cooking going on. As an average, one may reckon four large tkitchen) or six ordinary bedroom scuttles to_ the hundredweight of coal. Where there is no late dinner or hot supper the consumption of coal should be fully one-thii'd less. A good, medium-sized, slow-combustion stove will in a sitting-room, in ordinary weather, use a scuttle of coals a day, which, at six scuttles to the hundredweight, would mean a quarter of a ton a month ; but in cold weather this would be doubled This is for the whole day; the bedroom consumption must depend on how long fires are required, but may be reckoned on the same scale. Old-fashioned or large grates would, of course, use more. It may, perhaps, be well just to repeat the average allowances, shortly: Tea, Coffee, or Cocoa: 4oz. a head weekly. Sugar: ^Ib. to 11b. a head weekly. Milk: One-third of a pint daily for adults, froin one pint to one quart a head for children, exclusive of cooking, if milky puddings or indiscriminate “tumblers of milk,” &c., are in vogue. Butter: ilb. a head weekly, inelusive of cooking in a large family; in a small one allow from ^Ib. to 11b. extra weekly. Cheese: From Ub. to lib. a head weekly, according to whether you allow meat suppers or not. Bacon : 11b. a head weekly (for breakfasts). Bread: About Hb. 2oz. daily, or 81b. weekly, for women, double for men. Meat: From 3ilb. to 5ilb. weekly a head; anything