2 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. one wondrous kind,” quoth the old saw, and, if one’s doine.stio attdage lacks the romance attaching to the nery steeds of the sun, we are not long in discovering tiiat for worry and distress, not to say danger, there IS mighty little to< choose between them! Questions arise for which we neither know nor can discover the answer; and the bland official who stands before us professedly “to take our orders,” is not in the least likely to help us to a solution of our diffi- culties. Moreover, as a matter of fairness, how is she competent to do so, being in her way fully as untrained ^ oupelves. It may be added that, if by any chance Jier knowledge and experience are greater it is extremely doubtful if our position is thereby improved, there are exceptions to every rule, we grant, but as a general rnle (and allowing a percentage for such excep- tmns). fully-trained and trustworthy servants seldom if ever, care to take service in a young household They know (no one better!) that in such a case the Herrschaft IS far too ignorant and inexperienced to appreciate properly the trained one’s perfect service. If things go straight and all works well, it naturally proves how correct was young madam’s idea that housekeeping was no intricate problem, but mere child’s play to the train^ mind brought up on the higher education; and the elfacient domestic gets neither kudos nor even intelli- gent appieciation; so off she flits, to become the joy and treasure of some 'more discriminating housewife. For be it said in passing, trained, good, and trustworthy servants are by no means extinct, only the demand exceeds the supply; there are not enough to go round and so the servants can pick and choose, and naturally do choose situations where their services are reckoned at their just value, and fairly recompensed. The efficient one having departed, young madam’s fun (? ) begins. Say it is the cook who has left. Unpunctuality replaces the former clockwork regularity, and mnnsicur begins to wax wrathful over delayed breakfast, late dinner &c. a further sting being added to his feelings by the fact that, when the belated food does turn up, it is either law or _a cinder, or, if it escapes these extremes, is unappetising from careless or imperfect cookery. More- over, the same argument appliesi to everj' other servant, whatever their class. In larger houses, where men are kept, monsieur is pretty sure in the long run to hear rumours of war and strife below stairs, and as he, like