PARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS’ WORK. 75 bed linen required has been given in the chapter on the linen cupboard, so need not be referred to here; but the actual bedmaking requires a little notice. The inmate of the room, or his or her attendant presumably opens the window, and throws back the bed clothes before leaving the room; in any case, the moment the house- maid comes in she should open the windows top and bottom, then strip off the clothes one by one, and place them on chairs at the foot of the bed,beating and shaking out the pillows and bolster, setting these to air near the window if possible; the lower clothes should be removed in the same way, the mattress being raised at the two ends so as to form an arch through which the air can pass, and the door should be left open, if possible, to ensure a thorough draught through the room. The next bedroom in use should then be taken and similarly treated, until all the beds are stripped. Beds require at least an hour’s airing before making, or the room will never be free of a close, stuffy smell, and the sleep of the inmate will be disturbed and uncomfortable. The fresher the bed the pleasanter the sleep. When making the bed turn the mattress from side to side and top to bottom on alternate days to make it wear evenly, and be sure the bedclothes are laid straight and well tucked in, free from wrinkles. If a bolster case is not used, the end of the lower sheet must be rolled smoothly round it, then put on the top sheet wrong side out, leaving the most “margin at the top; the blankets should next be placed on, the deeper margin then tucked in at the foot, after which fold the extra length of sheet at the top over the blankets, being careful to have the narrow hem of the sheets and the marking of the blanket, &c., at the foot of the bed; lastly, lay on the quilt evenly and smoothly, covering it wifn the eiderdown or the embroidered “bedspread,” as the case may be. Now fold over the sheet and blanket evenly on the top of the eiderdown, and place the pillows in position hems down- Avards, and, in a double bed, with the fastening sides towards the centre. When pillow and bed shams are used, the upper pillows should be dropped into an embroidered cover and returned to their place, whilst the sheet sham is slipped in under the bed clothes and folded over so as to entirely cover the real sheet, its embroidered or lace edge resting on the eiderdown or bedspread. Directions for making the bed have been given with the airing of the bed, but, properly speaking.