HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 22 of household material. This sliould be at once checked on discovery by the dismissal of the servant and the leaving of the tradesman. Next to “commission” come perquisites, and these are far more general than mis- tresses are aware of. Cook refuses to use dripping for pastJ'y, frying, &c., or bones for .soup, affirming (utterly falsely) that neither substance can bo used in a soigne kitciicn. Where this assertion docs not proceed from ignorance (as it sometimes, if rarely, does), it is sheer dishonesty. The bones and the dripping have a distinct mai’ketable value, as the cook well knows, which she pockets, whilst her refusal to use the dripping, &c., involves the use of more butter, lard, &c., from the buttennan and stock meat from the butcher, and the consequent increase of her percentage on both bills. You pay for the meat, &c., so why should you put a further sum into the already sufficiently well-lined pockets of your dome.stic tyrant, the cook? But your objection to this vicarious generosity must be made perfectly clear at the time of engagement, and “No perquisites” must be plainly stated from the very first. It must be added that the perquisite question affects cvci’y class of servant, male and female, and, if unchecked, leads to most unpleasant and unexpected developments. It is, moreover, in process of becoming a “vested interest,” like tips, and, unless firmly stamped out. will become equally obnoxious and in-attackable. You should state firmly and decidedly when engaging a cook that you allow nothing to be sold, and do not pennit anything, however small, to be given away, with- out your expx'ess permission. Servants generally have rather large views as to the use or uselessness of materials, and, knowing no stint, or considering that there is no need for it, they give generously of “that Avhich is left over” to kinsfolk and acquaintance, and even to the beggar at the door. Now, putting aside this vicarious generosity with goods that might be used for your own benefit, promiscuous giving in this fashion very soon develops into distinct dishonesty, whilst the encouragement of beggars at the back door is also an encouragement to the “area sneak.” Teach your ser- vants to refuse utterly this promiscuous giving to unknown objects (such giving, practised, unfortunately, by all classes of womeji, is the direct origin of the painful scones and much cruelty to children, only too often met with in our streete). If your serwant is kindly, and