SETTING UP HOUSE. 13 venient storag© for th© 40-gallon cask in which it is usually sent. This should be stored away from the house, the amount needed for daily consumption being drawn off and brought into the house in the morning. (Never allow any cleaning or filling of lamps to take place, save in daylight!) It is easy to measure the consump- tion, granted a little trouble, by filling each lamp, and then seeing how long it will burn. Of course, the amount must be measured before refilling the lamp. TFood.—Of this, twenty-eight bundles usually go to the shilling, or more if bought by tlie 100 bundles, and a bundle of wood should certainly light two fires, whilst I have known a careful housemaid make one do for three. Coals.—The consumption of these is a vexed question, and one, moreover, that it is very difficult to settle. In two houses of the same size, and burning the same number of fires, the consumption in one may be exactly double that of the other, and with no appaa-ent dis- honesty or waste. It is a question mostly of ranges and grates. I know, from personal experience, that in my own house a change of range, from an old, badly-planned one to a modern and well-designed one, produced a difference of exactly half, i.e., the old one burnt over Icwt. a day whilst with the new one, under the same regime and the same conditions, the consumption sank to exactly half; and, I may add, with much increased com- fort, both to the cook and the housekeeper. Two other factors in the consumption of coal are dirty flues and the neglect of cinders. Soot is a non-conductor, and dirty, i.e., sooty, flues involve much larger fires both for heat- ing the oven and the boiler. When difficulties arise with regard to the bath water (a constant source of domestic friction), before sending for workmen, or blaming the range, see for yourself that the damper leading to the bath-pipes is open, and that the flues are free from caked soot. If, after this, the water still refuses to heat, then (but then only) send for the workmen and have the range looked to, for in that case the hath-pipes them- selves may he chokeel from some cause, and, if neglected, trouble is pretty certain to follow. With regard to the cinders mentioned above, please remember, and also make your maids undei'stand, that cindei-s are not the .same as a.dtes. Ashes are of use in many ways, such as for scouring pots and pans, &c., but they are useless in the range or grate. Cinders, on the contrary, are admirable both for lighting a fire, in the first instance,