SERVANTS—ENGAGEMENT, &c. 21 work, is not a legal justification for th© discharge of a servant, unless the illness is of such a kind as to render such servant entirely and permanently unfit for duty, or is the definite result of the immorality or bad conduct of that sei’vant. As long as there is a reasonable chance of the person being able to return and adequately fulfil his or her duties, even if the illness renders a holiday necessary, the employer is not justified in discharging such servant. It must, however, be borne in mind that, though entitled to wages at the yearly rate during absence on account of illness, such servant cannot legally claim hoard wages for the period of such absence; nor is the employer bound to provide either medicine or medical attendance for a servant, unless there is a special agreement to do so at the time of engage- ment. Of course, if the employer requests a doctor to attend his servant, or pays the chemist for medicine, &c., supplied to such servant at any time, the doctor or chemist would be justified in considering the owner liable for such expenses. It must be remembered, at the same time, that the above rules as to illness in no way interfere with the employer’s right to give a month’s warning, or wage.?, at any time. One more point deserves consideration, and this is the liability of employers for orders given by their servants to tradesmen. In cases of urgency requiring instant attention, such as the burst- ing of water pipes, &c., orders for repairs given by servants, or, indeed, for tliat matter by even a stranger, would be held to be given by the employer’s authority. If, again, servants have been allowed to give ordere for repairs, materials, stores, &c., and the employer has paid th© expenses involved by such orders from time to time without remark, the tradespeople are justified in assuming the liability of the employer. A serious point to he considered is perquisites. Many employers appear to consider these a kind of vested interest, which may not legally be interfered with. This is a mistake. One of the chief of these is the “ com- mission” many servants consider themselves justified in demanding from the tradesmen with whom their employers deal. Now, this is neither more nor less than bribery and dishonesty. The higher the tradesman’s hill the higher is th© servant’s commission, and in con.se- quence the greater the temptation to overlook care- lessness and mistakes on the part of the tradesman, and to encourage unnecessary ancj extravagant consumption