30 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. butlor ami footman, and usually does a good deal more than these two comhined, as, in addition to the plate, glass, and pantry-work, and lamps, tlio waiting at table, opening doors, attending to sitting-room fires, and valeting his master, he very often cleans the knives, boots, and (with the assistance of the housemaid) the windows, the dusting and polishing of the dining-room and smoking-room furniture also often falling to his share. His outing.s, which should bo daily, must be arranged tO' suit the ways of the household, the house- maid undertaking his duties in his ab.sonce. The Valet is simply a masculine lady’s maid, though he often acts as loader for his master when out shooting, and helps wait at table at dinner, when he wears evening clothes like the butler. The Hall Boy is practically a male “tweeny” maid, who intends to develop into a footman, and probably a butler. He waits at the sei'vants’ hall meals, helps in and scrubs out the pantry, cleans and trims the lamps for the kitchen and other back premises, cleans boots and knives, fills coal scuttles, and very often has to carry them to their proper place. Like the “tweeny” maid, he requires attention, for, being only half-grown, the work may easily be unduly severe, and a great deal be put on his shoulders, that should be done by other people. Mistresses should always see for themselves what each servant has to do, and should be careful to have the work fairly distributed. Another point, which helps greatly towards the peace and comfort of everyone, is attention to the servants’ quarters. Of course, where possible each servant should have a separate room; failing this, see that each has a separate bed, washstand, chest of drawers, looking glass, and chair. These items are very inexpensive nowadays, and well repay their original cost anyway. Servants’ rooms should be inspected at stated intervals, exactly like any of the other bedrooms, and any deficiencies should be noted and made good, and any negligence in their upkeep should be at once and shai-ply censured. Comfortable beds and plenty of air should be sine qua nons. 'The following is a list of the average wages of the present day: Housekeeper, £45-£60 and upwards; cook- housekeeper, £35-£76; professed cook, £30-£60; good plain cook, £25-£35; cook-general, £18-£30; parlour- maid (head), £30-£35; thorough good parlourmaid