5G HOUSEHOLD HINTS. room at special cleaning times, also doing some portion of her work when the housemaid is out; whilst the latter must be prepared to wait when necessary, and also to do the parlourmaid’s work when the latter is out. Thus it will be seen that, the smaller the household, the more “give and take” there must be between these two maids, and it is on the proper division of this interchange that the comfort of the household must, in great measure, depend. For this reason it behoves the mistress to arrange the work according to the ways and habits of her family, and so to come to a clear understanding with each servant at the time of engaging her. Roughly speaking, the work of the public rooms belong to the parlourmaid, whilst the housemaid has charge of all the so-to-say private rooms, stairs, &c., and in most cases lifts the larger proportion of actual hou.sework off die shoulders of the parlourmaid. Where no lady’s maid is kept, the housemaid “maids” the mistress. One point may be noted here, and that is the question of knocking at doors. No well-trained maid ever knocks at the door of a public-room unless she knows the doctor to be in the room with either her master or mistress; but, equally, no well-trained servant would dream of entering either bed or dressing room without knocking to a.scertain if her entrance is con- venient. The following pages will give some idea of the work belonging to the parlourmaid and housemaid, but, as said before, the mistress mu.st adapt these general rules to her own individual requirements. The Care of Lamps and Lamp Stoves. Few things give more trouble in the household than the care of lamps and lamp stoves, and, where there is not a competent parlourmaid to attend to them, it would be well if the British housewife would emulate her cousin outremer, and take the charge of them into her own hands. Of course, the first outcry will be: “ Oh, it is such dirty work!” But this is an utter mistake. Lamp tendance is only dirty work in the hands of a slatternly worker; a tidy woman can do it perfectly without soiling her fingers verj' much (nothing like so much as photography would do) or causing any smell. To begin with, no lamp should be cleaned, trimmed, or filled at any time save in the morning, for after dark there is always a certain risk in handling petroleum.