118 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. to be repeated several successive days), but it sterilises it to a practical degree. But remember, for the process to be successful, the bottles, &c., must be absolutely and perfectly clean and directly the milk is taken out they must be soaked in soda and water for several hours, and then well scalded out. The same treatment must be applied tO' any brush or cloth used in their cleansing. Small frames for holding the bottles may be bought, but the above answers excellently. Onion Water.—This old-fashioned decoction is invalu- able for keeping off flies from gilt frames, &c. Boil one large or two small onions in a pint of water till very soft, then strain oft the liquid and use when warm, not hot, two or three times in the summer. Faint, to Clean. Never use soda in paint washing, as this is fatal, but dissolve two tablespoonfuls of pow- dered borax in a little boiling water, and then add enough cold water to bring it all to a generous three pints. After thoroughly dusting the paint, sponge it well and gently with the borax solution, then rinse with tepid water, and dry and rub up with a clean, soft cloth. If the paint is varnished, rub it after drying it with a little good furniture cream. Fine whiting made into a cream with water is another excellent cleanser for white or enamelled furniture, whilst for finger marks, &c., apply a soft cloth wetted with benzine, or dip a flannel into whiting, rub on lightly, then rinse off with clear water. This gentler treatment is quite as eft'ectual and far less destructive to the paint than the heroic methods so dear to the ordinary char- woman. Stains, to Bemove.—Moisten them well with turpentine. Smell, to Bemove.—Stand shallow pans full of water, into which you have thrown a good handful of hay, about the room for twenty-four to forty-eight hours. Faper-hanger’s Paste.—Of this there are two kinds, the boiled and the unboiled, the latter being considered the best. For it, mix a quartern of stale flour very gradually and smoothly with cold water, till it forms a smooth, even, and rather stiff paste. Now stir into it steadily and gradually suflBcient absolutely boiling water to bring it to the consistency of rather thick cornflour; now add to this a tea.spoonful of powdered alum (this makes it flow evenly from the brush), and it is ready