10 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. unsightly. Properly, such things should be washed like table knives—in a jug, so that the water never reaches the handles at all. These hints may seem very commonplace and ordinary, hut in plate cleaning, as, indeed, with many things, the work is simple enough of itself if done conscientiously, and with regard to the old saying that “ a stitch in time saves nine.” But if scamped, or done in the wrong way, it must be admitted that few things in the house- hold are more disappointing and unsatisfactory; so it is well worth the while of the person in charge to study the right methods, and to carry them out intelligently. Few cooks know how to reheat small entrees properly when to be served in the silver dish they were originally served in. This may be done perfectly safely if a sheet of blotting or kitchen paper is laid double into a baking- tin, the silver dish set on this, and boiling water poured all round the latter in the baking-tin. It can now be set in the oven, and as long as there is water in the outer pan the silver dish will come to no harm. Another hint refers to mayonnaises. These are often served in silver entree dishes, and these, when emptied out, are then found to be stained from the vinegar in the salad dressing, a stain, by the bye, which is decidedly troublesome to remove. To avoid this, pour a thin layer of aspic, or, preferably, savoury jelly, into the dish to be used, and let this get perfectly hard and set, when the mayonnaise may be put in it with perfect impunity. For this purpose the jelly should be verj' stiff. _ Failing aspic or other jelly, dissolve ^oz. of leaf gelatine in a tumbler of water, and use this just as it is setting. If the servant charged with the care of plate will follow the above directions carefully and conscientiously, she will find it easy enough, and by no means a fatiguing process, to keep her plate in first-rate condition; hut she must always remember that nothing will give a good polish to a greasy and badly-washed piece of silver, and that however careful she is in the matter of hot water, cfec., unless her cloths, leathers, and brushes are, all alike, free from damp, dirt, and grease, she will be dis- appointed with the result. To the parlourmaid belongs also the care of the glass used in the dining-room and also the breakfast and tea sets, and it is well for ber to realise that there is a right and a wrong way of caring for both of these. To begin with washing china: Wash this in thoroughly hot