128 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. boiling water through it. Other people, again, recom- mend the use of pure glycerine; but if much hardened in the eau de Javelle given above is about as good as anything, if carefully used. White%vash Stains.—Apply a little paraffin with a soft rag, and you will find the spots will disappear completely without injuring even the most delicate paint. Wallpaper, Stained.—The best for this is a thick paste of fullei-^s earth and water, left on all night, and then carefully brushed off. This may need to be repeated. Smoke stains are best removed with dry, but soft, bread- crumb, changing the latter directly it is soiled. Terra-Cotta Btists, etc., to Clean.—Remove all traces of the previous cleansing agent with soft soap and water, and then fill the bust with rain water, and let that soak through the pores. Another plan would bo to place the bust in a bath of rain water (oi- other water that has been softened), and allow it to soak for a day or two, and then brush carefully. Tiles, to Clean.—Tiles in an ordinary way are better kept if never washed, but rubbed over with a damp cloth and then with skim milk, or milk and water. If unglazed and very dirty, clean them with a damp flannel dipped in fine Calais sand, using as little water as possi- ble, and then polisli it with milk. If they are glazed, ammoniated water or Hudson’s extract of soap will be best. But never allow the maids to swill the tiles with water as they are so fond of doing, as this works through to the cement, carrying the dirt with it, and in the long run loosens and unsets the tiles. If tiles are stained, wash carefully and quickly with Brook’s or Sunlight soap; if this does not answer, appl.y a thick paste of whiting diluted with a solution of soda, or a paste made of very strong soap lees and quick lime, washing this off in a day or so with soap and water. Whiting and water mixed to a thin cream thickly applied and then wiped off with a flannel and polished with a soft duster is excellent for tiles. If tiled hearths are badly stained, a paste made with a bullock’s gall, a wine-glassful of soap lees, half as much turpentine, and a little pipeclay, will usually remove these with one or two applications. If this fails, use dilute muriatic acid. Where resinous fire-lighters are used, spots of erease or resin may be removed from a tiled hearth by tbe use of a piece of glass or the back of a knife, whilst turpentine or paraffin will remove any trace of blacklead. Loose tiles should be