16 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. ing works out on the following lines: Butcher, one-third; grocer, one-fifth; dairy, one-fifth; baker, one-ninth; greengrocer and fishmonger, each, one-fourteenth of the total sum allowed for the housekeeping. From experi- ence, I can say that this really does come out about right, though items vary; for instance, in my case the baker and fishmonger usually exchange places. But, of course, a very little practice enables one to, so to speak, average one’s averages. To show how this works out. say you have a household of five servants, master and mistress, two half-grown sons, and a grown-up daughter, with occasional visitors, and an allowance of £7 weekly, you would reckon £6 for the weekly food bills, and appor- tion thus: Butcher. £2; grocer, £1 4s.; milk, cream, eggs. &c., £1 4s. ; baker, cakes, &c., 14s.; greengrocer, 9s.; fishmonger, 9s.; total, £6. This would allow of comfort, and no stint, though, of course, as I say, the family tastes might change round some of the minor expenses, according to whether fish, vegetables, or bread were most favoured. Lastly, there is the vexed question of payment; ready money or credit. It may be at once admitted that the first is the ideal method; but one lives in a real and not an ideal world, and must, as the immortal Mrs. Gamp says, “Take the consequences of the sitivation, my dear!” In short, one must arrive at a compromise. Of course, the much-quoted French mhiagere is a strictly ready-money customer, but her way of life must be taken into consideration. If one could manage with an early tea and roll meal, the clwta hazri of the Anglo-Indian, it would be practical enough, but our daily life is arranged on different lines, and nothing short of a social revolution would render such housekeeping possible. Under these circumstances, weekly books, strictly adhered to, appear to produce the best results all round. Money coming in regularly every week is practically ready money to the tradesman, and he will do a good deal to content such a customer, especially if the latter shows herself thoroughly sure of what she wants, and determined (even at the cost of a little personal dis- comfort) to secure it. A price-list should be obtained from the butcher, baker, and laundry, whilst it will be found that, for determined customers, fishmongers and greengrocers possess daily lists, which will enable one to see which things are most plentiful, and consequently cheapest, that day. It is well resolutely to insist that