32 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. Of course, in a small house, wliere the cook takes the parlourmaid’s work when the latter is out, she must dress in tlie same style as the latter. Scullery and kitchenmaids wear print dresses, caps, and aprons. Upper nurses seldom wear caps, but under nurses should do so. In summer nurses, as a rule, wear white or grey print dr^es; and in winter, and for outdoor wear with the children, plain grey dresses, jackets, and bonnets. This, however, should be definitely settled on engagement. A butler or single-handed manservant wears a tail coat and dark ti’ousers, with white shirt and collar and black bow tie, all day till the evening. For dinner, the regulation black dress suit and white tie. Footmen wear livery in the daytime, and usually in the evening also. This consists of a livery coat and waistcoat, and dark cloth trousers to match. Whilst in the morning, for plate cleaning, &c., a drill or linen coat is generally provided. Livery is always provided, but the butler, or out-of-livery servant, provides his own clothes. The page or hall boy (when the latter wears livery) should wear clothes the colour of the family livery— trousers, and short Eton coat fastened down the front with small, thickly-set buttons. Like the footman, he wears a striped linen jacket and waistcoat in the morn- ing whilst plate cleaning, &c. It should be added that the wages given above are calculated on the English and London scale, but they vary according to locality, being lower in Ireland and Scotland, and also in small provincial towns; but it is difficult to give any precise average for wages, as these vary both according to time and season. A point that must be remembered by the mistress of a large house is that the scale of servants’ precedence is as sharplj"^ defined (if not more so) as is that in the dining- room ; and servants are even more tenacious on this point than their masters and mistresses; many a good and valuable ser\mnt has been lost to a household by inattention to this point.