HOUSEHOLD HINTS. OG Hence the importance of doing all that Is possible to prevent accidents, although sometimes a flexible tube or other alternative may be usefully employed. 16. liesponsibility.—Some one person should Be re- sponsible for the water services, and should know whom to call in on an emergency. Further, every October the pipes should be looked over, so as to be prepared for frost. Furniture Cream.—Shred finely loz. of Castile soap and 2oz. of beeswax into a jar with half a pint of spring water, and set this jar in a moderate oven until its contents are perfectly dissolved. When quite cold mix into it half a pint of spirits of turpentine and two table- spoonfuls of vinegar, stirring these well in. This cream should be stirred occasionally whilst in the oven. Melt together over a slow fire 2oz. of yellow soap and 11b. of beeswax, and when thoroughly dis- solved add a quart of spirits of turpentine very care- fully; then stir in one quart of boiling water very gradu- ally till the mixture is quite cold. Mix together 3oz. of beeswax, loz. of w'hite wax, loz. of curd soap, one pint of turpentine, and when the mixture is thoroughl,y dissolved and cold add a pint of soft, boiled water. Shake the bottle frequently till the wax is all dissolved, and do not use it for forty- eight hours after making. Or, boil one pennyworth of Castile soap in half a pint of soft water till reduced to half, mix one pennyworth each of beeswax and white wax in a quartern of turpentine, and then pour the boiling soap and water on to it. Bottle^ and cork closely; then shake till the mixture turns quite white, when it is ready for use. Put into a bottle half a pint of turpentine, one gill of methylated spirits, half a pint of linseed oil, and one gill of vinegar; shake these all well together till thoroughly blended, and remember always to shake it before use. This is particularly good for dark wood, especially mahogany. A version of this is the old- fashioned mixture of linseed oil and vinegar, which should be kept in a well-corked bottle and thoroughly shaken before use. It is not altogether e^y to give the exact quantities for this mixture, as different woods require rather different proportions. This, however, experience soon teaches. For general purposes equal parts answer well. The best plan is to use this latter