11 SETTING UP HOUSE. many of us, that “cheap” necessarily implies “nasty.” “Foreign meat is cheaper than the home-grown, e?!70 it is inferior,” is their argument. But tiiey fail to remember that cattle and sheep abroad, whioh cam be fed on admirable pasture (chietly m the open, owing to the difference of climate), and require only a small proportion of the care and expense necessarily involved in these days in the breeding of cattle, &c., at home, are therefore, to start with, infinitely cheaper than our own; moreover, such animals are nowadays fully as care- fully bred, the best strains being lavishly imported; whilst the science and study bestowed on the methods of transport allow of the meat being brought to our doors with practically little deterioration. In most cases, when the animals do not come over alive, the cold- storage principle is applied—a vei-y different method from the original system of freezing, used when meat was first imported years ago. One point that illus- trates rather luridly the importance of the foreign meat ti'ade is provided by statistics published some little time since. An exact return was given of the foreign meat imported, and of the actual liome-bred beef and mutton supplied to the wholesale markets, together with a retuni of the total amount of both, overtly, sold retail. Unfortunately, on collating these figures, it was evident that the quantity of meat openly sold in retail estab- lishments as foreign was wonderfully below the amount known to have been imported wholesale, whilst the quantities of the retail home-grown were largely in excess of any amount sent to the wholesale market. 1 leave the natural inference to the intelligence of my readers. Vegetables, again, are not easy to apportion. The con- sumption of potatoes varies as much as the demand for bread in a household, and is therefore impossible to give exactly. Roughly speaking, however, 3^1b. a head weekly is a fair working average, remembering that this implies good-sized ones, which run about three to the pound. But, as said before, this can never be reckoned on closely, for one person will eat (fairly and without waste) quite twice as much as another. It will, however, be found, in the long run, that this is balanced either by a corresponding decrease in other things, or by the lesser consumption of other members of the household. With regard to other vegetables, it is difficult to give definite advice. We all know that the Britisher con- sumes a large amount of butcher’s meat when he or she