I2l VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. though it must be done occasionally. The best and quickest plan is to rub the surface well over with a tlry, fairly hard brick of sandstone, and then sweep this off; this keeps them perfectly white, and only needs washing occasionally. When this is considered neces- sai-y, the mixture given for stone steps answers well. Steps, to Beddeii.—These are usually simply washed with raddle instead of hearthstone. For this you mix rod ochre to the proper shade with water or skim milk, but this is a decidedly messy performance, and comes off very freely, so it is best, though a litle more trouble- some, to prepare the raddle thus: Mix the red ochre smoothly with a little cold water, then pour it into boiled starch till you have obtained the right shade, now lay it on evenly leaving the steps to dry without being trodden on. Tliis is said not to come off, and even to bear washing once or twice. Skins, to Clean.—Sheep’s skin, or any leather that is soft when oleau, may be washed in soap and water, wash- ing the skin well, then rinsing all the dirty soapsuds out of it with fresh soapy water. Some soap should always be left in the skin, as this softens it. The skin must be well worked and pulled with the hands while drying, to keep it soft and shapely. It should be dried in a draught, or in the sun if not too strong. If dried too quickly near the fire or in a hot sun it will shrink and hai’den. to Cure.—Take two parts saltpetre to one of alum, and mix them well; rub the fleshy side of the skin well with this, then sprinkle it thickly with tlie powder, and roll it up very tightly, fur side out, wind- ing it up with broad, strong tape into as compact and solid a roll as you can get it. Leave this roll hanging in the air for several days, then unroll it, lay it fur side down on a flat surface, and scrape the upper side well with a blunt knife, being careful not to cut the skin. If, when cured, tlie skins are hard and unyielding, rub and work the leather side well (kneading and pressing it with the hands) with oil, fat, vaseline (the best thing), or soft soap. If this is thoroughly done the skins will work quite soft. Yolk of egg is also a splendid softener where alum has been used in the curing. After soften- ing the skin with egg yolk, “stake” it, i.e., draw it backwards and forwards over a blunt, semi-circular knife fixed upright in a bench or table. to Freserve.—Before storing skins, sprinkle