117 VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. temper of a knife and blunts it.) If a knife or fork has been used for anything acid, clean it at once, as the stain will then come off quite easily. To remove the smell of onions from a knife blade, put it two or three times into the earth. Tin, to Clean.—This metal, which is generally only a thin coating of tin on iron, suffers a good deal from over-zealous cleaning, any strong cleanser removing the outer layer of tin, and leaving the metal underneath exposed to sight, and, worse still, to the atmosphere. Whiting, mixed to a stiff paste with plain water or ammonia, is best, on condition that, when dry, the article is well brushed to get rid of any of the white powder. Another cleanser for tin is the following: Shave down thinly 4oz. of good prim- rose soap, and pour over it one quart of cold, soft water, letting it stand till next day till thoroughly dis- solved; now add lib. of best whiting, and bring it to the boiling point, stirring all the time till perfectly blended, then let it stand till cold, when you add 2oz. spirits of hartshorn, and bottle it at once in a tightly- stoppered bottle. This will keep any time. Shake the bottle well before using, pouring a little of the contents into a basin. Zinc, to Clean.—^This is best done with turps., to which you may, or may not, add whiting. The turps, will cleanse it, whiting giving it brilliancy. Milk, to Sterilise.—^This is often a very important point, for invalids and infants especially, as the result is usually better liked than the ordinary boiled milk. Have the milk as fresh as possible, and pour it at once into delicately clean bottles, filling these till within an inch of the top, fastening them down either with patent glass stoppers or with wads of antiseptic cotton (procur^le at the chemist’s). Stand these bottles in a kettle of cold water, wedging them up so as not to let them touch the kettle, then cover down the pan and bring the water very gradually to the boil; now keep it boiling strongly round the bottles for thirty-five to forty minutes, after which lift the pan carefully off the fire (or, better, turn off the gas), and let the bottles of milk stand untouched imtil the surrounding water is perfectly cold, then lift them out, wipe, and store them. Do not remove the stopper till the milk is actually wanted. This, of course, does not make the milk per- fectly sterile (for that the above treatment would have