THE STORE ROOM, LARDER, &c. 35 air by means of a bellows or a bicycle pump, and store them in the storeroom ; this will be found tO' prolong the lives of these useful articles. As said above, a generous allowance of shelves should be provided, each shelf being kept for its separate and special use, so that in a little time you may be able to tell blindfold in which direction to go for any stores required. Hooks should also bo affixed to the ceiling or beams for the string bags, or rather, miniature ham- mocks. used for storing lemons, smoked hams, tongues, sides of bacon, herbs, &c., in their brown paper bags (carefully pricked all over with a fine needle to let in the air without admitting the dust), &c. All stores should be kept in their own special receptacles, each being carefully labelled to show their contents. This is especially needed where things requiring air-tight re- tainers are used, as it obviates the necessity of opening the tin to discover the contents. Formerly, old- fashioned housewives used always to mark or label their .jams, pickles, Ac., on the bladder or paper covering the top, stacking each kind in a separate corner, and trusting to their memories to localise the various stores. But. with all submission to these worthy ladies, it is far more practical to affix labels with the names, dates, and other facts desired, at the side of the jar, where it can be seen at once, even when stacked. Adhesive labels will answer for this in many cases, but as all glues will not fix paper on tin, it may be added tliat a aluc for tins made with loz. powdered alum dissolved in one pint of boiling water, and then boiled with 2oz. of gum shellac till the latter is dissolved, will clear away this difficulty. Tliis glue must be kept tightly corked. Either tightly-closing tins or large earthenware crocks should be used for cereals, currants, raisins, &c., but see that the lids really do fit, and be careful they are kept tightly closed, as insects are very destructive, to cereals especially. Shallots, garlic, and such like strongly-smelling articles should be kept in tight-fitting tins, and as far away as possible from anything likel.y to be affected by the odour. Soap, for the same reason, should be kept at a respectful distance from provisions. All things in common use, such as tea, sugar, Ac., should be bought in bulk.. Coffee is not much good if long roasted, or not freshly ground, so if it is to bo bought in bulk, buy the unroasted berries and roast and grind them yourself. You will be more than repaid D 2