123 VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. fact, is the best way of treating most woollen materials. If a billiard tablecloth is carefully and regularly brushed it ought not to require much more. At spring-cleaning time, however, brush it very thoroughly, first with a medium, and then with a hard brush, and when you have well brushed out the sides and comers, dust the cloth all over with fuller’s earth and brush this up again, finally rub it well all over with a piece of clean, coarse flannel, dipped in a strong solution of ammonia, being careful the flannel is not sufficiently damp to wet the cloth through, but only just moist enough to> pick up the pieces and freshen the surface. This treatment has a wonderfully cleansing and renovating eflFect. Bricks, Grease Stained-—^For this the ever-uscful fuller’s earth, mixed to a paste with water, left to dry on, then carefully swept oif, usually answers admirably, though it may require two or three applications if the stain is of some standing. Another remedy much recom- mended is this: Moisten loz. of powdered fuller’s earth with a little spirit of turpentine, adding to it loz. of potassium and ^oz. of salt of tartar; work this to a paste with good soft soap, and make it up into squares. To use it, moisten the stained bricks, and rub them well over with this soap and water till it lathers well. Chintz, Stained.—First .shako tliis tliorouglily well, then lay it out flat, and brush itall over with along-haired soft brush ; next wipe it down with a clean flannel, being careful not to smear it, and. lastly, rub it evenly and carefully from top to bottom with dry breadcmmb, changing this directly it gets dirty. Be careful in doing this never to touch the cleansed part with the soiled breadcmmbs. If the curtains are kept thoroughly dusted, this treatment at the grand cleaning time will be sufficient to keep them in thoroughly good order. Candy Stains.—Make a solution of loz. oxalic acid in a pint of water, and soak any underlinen, cloths, &c., stained with Condy’s fluid in this solution, when the stains, however deep, will bo discharged without injui’y to the fabric. Fruit Staws.—Boiling water generally removes fruit stains. Another way is to damp the material with hot water, and strain it across a basin, dust it with salts of sorrel, rubbing this well in with a smooth piece of stick, and then pouring absolutely boiling water through it; this must bo well rinsed out, after which the linen may l^e washed in the usual way. Another way is to make