SERVANTS—ENGAGEMENT, &c. 25 keeper, there are the “professed cook,” the “cook,” the “plain” oook, and tho “cook-general.” The professed cook requires a staff of kitchen and scullei-y maids, and various privileges, aud is, therefore, only suited to a large establishment. The cook simple usually requires a kitchenmaid, though she may be contented (if better may not be) by the assistance of a “ tweeny ” maid from lunch time onwards. The "plain cook” generally is contented with a charwoman once or twice a week for the heavy cleaning, and looks upon a “tweeny” maid with great satisfaction. She is entirely responsible for tlie keeping in condition of all her kitchen offices, culinary utensils, and basement generally. The cook- (jcncral has no assistant, save on very extreme occasions, and is expected, besides her cooking and the basement, to take the charge of steps, front hall, and the sweeping and gi-ate of dining-room. She also cleans knives and tlie gentlemen’s boots. The Kitchenmaid comes next. She is responsible for all the cooking the professed cook does not undertake. She prepai'es the servants’ meals, also those for the nursery and schoolroom, and assists the cook in every way, being responsible, where there is no scullerymaid, for the cleaning of all the kitchen offices and utensils. I'he Scullerymaid wa.shes and prepares vegetables, washes all kitchen floors, &o., and does all the sci-ubbing, cleaning, and heavy work genei-ally. She usually assi.sts the kitchenmaid in cleaning the range, tins, and utensils generally. It is well here to warn the mistress of a large house that some attention should be paid to the treat- ment meted out to these under servants by their com- panions. for the upper ones are very apt to be extremely inconsiderate, to put it mildly, with regard to the juniors. Where men are not kept, the Farlourmaid is next in importance. To her falls the waiting at table, the charge of the table linen, and the condition of the cushion covers, cloths, ifec., used in the sitting-rooms. She ha.s charge of the plate, the table glass, the china used at breakfast and five o’clock tea. the lamps, and the answering of all bells, save the bedroom ones. She serves and arranges the five o’clock tea, and is re.spon- sible for the bread and butter, and the toast when used, thougli the cook and she often arrange this point to suit their niutual conyenicnce, Tlie parlourmaid valets her