62 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. quantity every morning early, and only keeping in the house just what is needed to fill up the lamps. The Care of Vlate. Nowadays, when necessity obliges us to curtail our household staff as closely as may be, fashion at the same time requires us to use as much silver or plate as wo can anyway compass for our dinner, dressing, and last, but not least, drawing-room curio tables. Now, the keeping of silver in good condition entails a great deal of care, and not a little work, .so that, when the neces- sary hands are few, it behoves us to try and find the best method of preserving its brilliance and cleanliness. After this statement, it may seem a contradiction in terms to declare that in nine households out of ten, where silver is cared for at all, it is cleaned far too often. Yet the solid, steady “clean,” which some par- lourmaids, and mistresses too, consider indispensable for the well-being of their cherished plate, at weekly, or at most, fortnightly intervals, is not only very weari- some to the operator, but, in spite of the brilliancy it gives, distinctly not to the benefit of the plate itself. To begin with, much rubbing, it stands to reason, destroys and blurs the pattern of delicately engraved or chased silver; whilst, moreover, many of the plate powders,, used with the best intentions, are apt to spoil the surface of the plate; especially is this the case with electro-plate, as these powders very often contain mer- cury, which causes the silvering to beaome brittle and worn. The best thing to do for silver is to wash it, whenever u.sed, in boiling soapsuds, to which you may add a little ammonia if you like, as this certainly increases the brightness of the metal. Till the soapsuds are sufficiently cool to let you put your hand in them, .stir the silver in the water very gently with a clean, old wooden spoon; then, as soon as they are washed, rinse the articles in some more clean, hot water; when thoroughly rinsed, dry them as quickly as possible, for, if left about wet, the surface will be disfigured by water marks. They should be leathered vigorously as soon as they are dry, and whilst still hot; and should, as much as possible, be kept from the action of the atmo- sphere, the changes in which are responsible for a great deal of tarnish. Large articles should have special ^en baize bags made to fit them, and should be stored either