122 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. them liberally with Keating’s insecticide and freshly gi’ound black pepper, then sew each skin up carefully in a piece of linen, folding the ends over well and using very small stitches. Then pack them tightly in a case well lined with neAV brown paper, and paste a sheet of the same closely over all, lastly fastening down the cases as tightly as possible. This is an excellent way of keeping any furs or skins, only be sure they are well covered both with the linen and the brown paper. Insects hate the latter, and will never willingly bite through it, but they can and will creep through the smallest gap that will give them an entrance. Hugs, to Wash, &c.—If grease stained, fuller’s earth well i-ubbed into the fur will take away both grease and dirt; or wash the rug in aimnoniated water and soft soap, or soft soap, water, and paraffin. Rinse the last time in soapy water, and let it dry in a draught or not too hot a s-un, pulling and working it well into shape as it dries. For very delicate furs of all kinds the best thing is to heat some bran on a tray or a sheet of paper in the oven. Meanwhile, shake, lightly switch, and well brush the fur; when the brands hot, lay the fur out flat on a table and rub handfuls of the hot bran in, the wrong way of the fur that it may penetrate well; repeat this all over the fur till the bran comes away quite clean, then shake the fur well to get rid of the bran, smooth it lightly the right way of the hair, and it will be quite restored. Stains.—To be successful in eradicating stains, the great point is to treat them as soon as possible, for a stain which might be eradicated in literally a few minutes will very likely, if of long standing, need considerable trouble, even if it be possible to treat it effectually. Blacklead Stains.—This is often a troublesome stain to eradicate, for soap and water is apt to spread it, besides causing the colours to run. About the best thing, for a carpet at all events, is to apply a fairly thick paste of fuller’s earth and water, then leave it to dry on, after which brush it well out, and, if necessary, repeat the treatment; but if the stain is a really bad one, it is much better to send it at once to a good cleaner. Billiard Tablecloth.—^iVuy grease stains on this from candles, &c., ai-e best removed by covering them with blotting paper, and passing a hot iron over this, shifting the blotting paper as the grease is absorbed. This, in