PARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS’ AYORK. 57 kerosine, or whatever kind of mineral oil you choose. The lamp-container should bo perfectly clean. To ensure this, wash it out at regular intervals in soapsuds, to wliich you have added a spoonful or so of Scrubb s cloudy ammonia, rinse it well, and leave it to drain till thoroughly dry and clean. A lamp should be filled up daily till nearly, but not quite, full; if overfilled, the lamp will soil everything that touches it, will give out a horrible, greasy smell, and in many cases becomes actually dangerous. If not filled sufficiently, or if lighted with only a little oil at the bottom of the con- tainer, it generates an explosive gas, ■which may at any time become a source of danger. When a lamp is to be left unlighted for more than twenty-four hours the wick should be removed and the oil poured away, for soaking in the oil, the wick w''ill corrode and will spoil the oif and the container should always, if possible, be washed’ out as described above, after being left unused for any time. The container should be regularly emptied out ovei*y ten days or so and cleansed as above, as this keeps the lamp and the oil in good condition. Everj- good lampmaker will tell you that in 99 cases out of 100 accidents or “explosions” are due either to sheer dirt, to bad oil, or misfitting wicks. “Cheap” oil is never really satisfactory. It means one of two things (and very often both), either the oil is insufficiently purified, in which case it smokes and gives out a most horrible smell, while the light is far from satisfactory; or else the “flash” point is a dangerously low one. A great deal has been said concerning this same flash point, and it has been discussed in trade committees, and also in inquiries in the House of Commons, without evolving much more than that a low flash point is a distinct danger. This “flash” pioint, put plainly, simply means the degree of heat at wh'ch mineral oil gives off a vapour, which may be, and very often is, little short of deadly. This flash point in foreign, cheap oils stands mostly at a dangerously low figure; in this country, however, most of the petroleum sold has its flash point at 73 deg. Fahr., i.e., rather above the Government standard, which in itself is all right. The danger, however, is this—should the temperature of the room be Go dfeg. to 68 deg. Fahr. (no uncommon heat for a living room, especially with a fire), the oil in the lamp, after lighting and burning for two or three or more hours, heats in proportion, and ris- ing, as it will do, to 6 deg. or 8 deg. above the surrounding