VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. 127 brush off, and, lastly, polish as usual. On a hard floor, if the stains are merely superficial, they should be scraped off with a steel scraper, or a straight-edged table knife, or even very fine glasspaper, after which polish with’beeswax and turpentine. If the oak cleans light paint pui'e ammonia over it to darken it. Mtldexo Stain.—First brush off any loose mildew, then well rub in a little common salt, lastly sprinkling it with powdered French chalk, and thoroughly moistening it with clean, cold water; affier this dry slowly in the open air, and then rinse well. This may require te be repeated, but seldom fails to be successful in the end. Rubbing the spot with a little lemon juice, or a little common salt, and leaving it to dry in the hot sun, is also very effectual. Mildew on leather may be removed by rubbing the place well with a clean, dry, and very soft cloth, to remove any fungus (mildew is simply a fungus brought out by damp) that mav be on the surface of the leather, then rub over with a rag just moistened with pyro-ligneous acid. To remove mildew from cloth rather depends on the nature of the article; if both sides can be got at, and the article can be exposed to' the open air, mix together a tablespoonful each of soft soap and starch with a teaspoonful of salt and the juice of a lemon. Rub this mixture on both sides of the stain with a stiff brush, and lay the cloth out on the grass till the stain disappears. Where this cannot be done, rub the stains well with strong gin or whisky, cover this with a damp cloth and iron well. Sponging cloth, with a fairly strong solution of ammonia, will remove most stains and renovate the material. Sugar or Syrup Stains.—Wash out well in warm water, and then rub with ammonia diluted with warm water. Paint Stains.—^When fresh remove either with butter or turpentine well rubbed in. If it has become dry, use turpentine mixed with a vei-y little ammonia. If the colour of the fabric is likely to be destroyed, soften the paint well with a little oil; then remove the stain with turpentine or ether. Tea Stains.—Soak the stains in buttermilk, and then dry in the open air; this may be repeated if necessary, after which wash in cold water. Any of the bleaches recommended for fruit stains are also good, but if of long standing both tea and coffee stains are difficult to eradicate. Another remedy is to spread the stained part over a basin, rub it well with powdered borax, and pour