HOUSEHOLD HINTS. loo troublesome and difficult to combat. All sorts of reme- dies bavo from time to time been advised; about the best ono is to wash all the iilaces where they abound with a fairly strong solution of carbolic acid or strong carbolic soap. Water, in which tobacco or quassia chips have been infused, or in which bitter aloes, corrosive sublimate, or green vitriol has been dissolved: or water acidulated with sulphuric acid, are each and ail strongly I’ecommendcd. Camphor, or a sponge saturated in creosote, is also said to prevent their infesting cup- boards. Other people recommend moi.st sponges dipped in sugar or treacle strewed about in their haunts and cleared out at stated intervals, when they should be washed out in boiling water. Others suggest traps made with jam pots half filled with sw^tened beer; but the only real method of extermination is, as said before, to find out the nests, then place some quicklime on the mouth of this, and wash it in with boiling hot water. Another remedy is to dissolve camphor in spirits of wine, mix it with water, and pour this into the holes, whilst a strong infusion of tobacco is also recommended. Lord Avebury, the well-known authority on insects, is not very sanguine as to any infallible cure for these creatures, but mentions the remedies given above, together with the use of petroleum in the nests, and creosote, as he says that these insects are especially averse to strong scents of any kind. The small red ants, so annoying in many kitchens, can be destroyed in the same way, but the great point is to find out and block up the entrances. Beetles.—These, with their relation the cockroach, invade town houses in such numbers that it is often a matter of difficulty to exterminate them. The first thing is, in the early spring, to examine all the walls and skirting boards of basements, kitchens, &c., and have these carefully plastered up. The damage these crea- tures will do to plaster in the neighbourhood of ranges, &c., is little short of wonderful, as it is in such places they make their nests. Having prevented the entrance of any beetles from the outside, the next thing is to destroy those within your premises. The finst point is strict cleanliness. Crumbs, sci-aps of all kinds, &c., must be most carefully got rid of, and strict tidiness be made the rule. Each night before going to bed powdered borax, Keating’s insecticide, or equal parts of powdered borax and cocoa, should be strewed thickly