SETTING UP HOUSE. 15 over 7Ib. a head weekly generally indicates waste, mis- management, or dishonesty. Potatoes: Prom 3ilb. to ojlb. a head weekly. Wood: One bundle for two' fires. Coal: From iowt. to fcwt. daily for kitchen, unless for a very large house; four large or six small scuttles to the hundredweight. Beer, when given, is reckoned at a gallon a head weekly for women, and one quart a day for men a head. For groceries it is difficult to decide. An old, and very fair, rule was that Id. a day a head should cover the bread bill (needless to say, this does not include flour for cakes, sauces, &o.), and Is. 6d. a head weekly the grocer’s bill for tea, sugar, and the ordinary groceries, such as rice, semolina, tapiooa, cruet sauces, barley, spice, &c., and, in the long rim, this works out very fairly, but does not, of course, cover such extras as olives, pate de foie gras, &c. For washing the usual allowance is Is. to Is. 6d. a week for women, and 2s. to 2s. 6d. weekly a head for men. A nurse wearing white clothes would rank as a man. If the washing is done at home, the general allow- ance a head is, for women, a complete change of under- clothing, three collars, twoi pairs of cuffs, two caps, two aprons, and one print dress weekly. Of course, this must he somewhat elastic. For instance, a parlour- maid might need more muslin aprons, collars, cuffs, and caps, whilst a cook might be allowed three prints in the fortnight. But this is matter for individual arrange- ment. The allowance for men is the same, with the addition of two to three white shirts weekl,y, and for the footman (when worn), a washing suit a week. Given the above averages, it is fairly easy to make out a list of the weekly requirements, modifying them as your experience increases to suit the special tastes cf your family, for it cannot be too strongly impressed on the novice that a hard and fast line is impossible to draw up, at all events, by anyone unacquainted with the ms and outs of the menage. Circumstances alter cases, but so long as you can reckon up your weekly bills by the above averages, and find the totals keep pretty well correct, you may feel things are going on correctly, even though you may discover that your bread bill is lower and your greengrocer (perhaps) higher than it should be. I have been told that, as a rule, housekeep-