53 THE LINEN CUPBOARD. possible, to set up the nursery entirely, allowing a separate outfit of cloths, dusters, crockery, cutlery, pails and brushes, as this tends to alleviate in some measure the feud that always appears to rage between the nur- sery maid and the housemaid. One of the troubles that beset a young housewife is the question of the cloths to be given out weekly to the various servants. Roughly speaking, for a household of eight or ten altogether it will be found that one table- cloth, one dishing-up cloth, one roller towel, three or four kitchen cloths, two knife cloths, a teacloth, and two or three dusters will be sufficient for the cook. For the parlourmaid, two teacloths, two glass cloths, two or three dusters, one knife cloth, and a roller towel will be ample for the same time; whilst the housemaid will need two or three dusters, two kitchen cloths (dif- ferent from the cook’s), a chamber cloth, a slop cloth, one roller towel, a glass cloth, and one or twO' teacloths. In the nurssry, one glass cloth, two teacloths, one slop cloth, and two dusters will be sufficient. Care should be taken in making out the washing book, and it should be rigidly kept up, both in sending out and when coming home. The washing list should be kept in a strongly-bound book, as nothing is more dis- conc3rting than to find loose leaves, and on no account should the receipts be added to the washing-book. A small book should be kept separately for these, or the bills should be carefully endorsed and added to the mistress’s^ hill file. It is well to examine the linen closely when it comes home from a new laundress for sevei'al weeks; though, when you and she have settled in, this examination need only occur at intervmls. The reason for this inspection is to ascertain the treatment your linen is undergoing. It is easy enough to distin- guish bad or careless washing. Starched clothes sent home like bricks, argue, at least, an unskilful laundress ; streaky or over-blued linen indicates either careless washing or an undue amount of blue having been used to hide bad work; white clothes, clammy to the touch (though not damp) and with an unpleasant smell, betray insufficient rinsing, for unless the soap is well and thoroughly rinsed out, the linen will always have a disagreeable odour. Hard, shrunken flannel or woollen goods proves the presence of washing soda in the water they were put into, over-hot water, or, lastly, too quick drying in front of a fire or in a hot room. Grimy,