119 VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. for Use. For boiled paste make in the same way. only using warm instead of boiling water, and let it all boil together for two> or three minutes. Use when cold. Of course, this may be made in any quantity required, as long as the proportions are kept. It is the best thing for pasting up little strips of wall paper, which, if not attended to at once, get tom and unsightly. Fapier-mache, to Chan.—Sponge the article with cold water, and, whilst still damp, sprinkle with fine whiting or flour, dry with a clean, soft flannel, and rub up with an old silk handkerchief. Salt.—This is very useful in the household for many purposes. For instance, salt and watei- is the best thing for cleaning stained or dirty matting, cane-seated and basket chairs, baskets, &c. A little put into hot water starch for muslins prevents the iron from sticking, whilst put into the last rinsing water in washing delicate colours, it helps to fix the latter. A very strong solu- tion of salt and water, again, is very useful for a sprain. If tlirown generously on the fire, salt will put out a burning chimney, whilst if anything is spilt on or allowed to boil over the kitchen range, a little salt sprinkled on the grease spots removes the smell. A pinch of salt dropped into the container of any petroleum lamp gives wonderful brilliancy to the light. (The same applies to a small lump of camphor.) Soiled carpets may also be renovated by the use of the coarsest kitchen salt spread on lavishly. Soap.—This is an old housekeeper’s recipe for home- made soap; Boil 61b. of common washing soda with 61b. of quick lime (shell lime is best) in ten quarts of water for half an hour, then let it stand till next day to clear. Now draw off the lye (this is the clear part, free from the sediment), and boil for half an hour with 11b. of common resin and 71b. of any fat. Let this stand till nearly cold, then cut it into bars. The time for boiling seems rather short, so boil it till the ingredients are well mixed, looking like soap, and beginning to set. The following American recipe is said to be an ex- tremely good one: Save evei-y scrap of fat, however small, and render it down in an old pan kept for the purp^m doing this when the fire is low, and being care- ful the fat never burns or smokes, as this is safe to cause a horrible smell. When you have collected 61b. of this fat, put it into the pan with sufficient hot water to cover it well, and stand it on the range till the fat is