104. HOUSEHOLD HINTS. to the irritation they cause. To some people insect bites produce an amount of inflammation that is beyond even tliis treatment; for sucli, try tlie following fomentation: Dissolve one teaspoonful of boracio acid thoroughly in half a pint of warm water, and bring this to the boil; place a towel over a basin, lay a piece of flannel on this, and pour tlie boiling mixture over it, fold over tlie towel, wring the ends of the latter in opposite directions, then apply the flannel, when dry, but still almost boiling hot, to the place. This will give relief, but may have to be repeated. Moth.—^With moth, undoubtedly prevention is infi- nitely better than cure. To prevent the ravages of these creatures, upholstered furniture should be lavishly sprayed (in daylight) with benzine, the woodwork should be washed with paraffin or turpentine, and turpentine- steeped sheets of paper should be fastened underneath the fixrniture, whilst naphthaline, powdered bitter apple, camphor, &c., may be forced down into any crevices or corners to he found. But the great thing to remember is that articles in constant use are seldom, if ever, infected in this way, if kept well brushed, occasionally switched out, and aired regularly. The same applies also to furs, which are far better kept in wardrobes if taken out at regular intervals, thrown over the line, and gentl.y, but steadily, switched with a riding-cane or whip, and perfectly brushed, then returned to the wardrobe. If things have to be stored away, air them and clean them in this way, then sprinkle each with a few drops of spirit of turpentine, folding each article separately, and placing packets of camphor, or any favourite insecticide, amongst the folds. Spread a clean sheet on a table, place the furs, blankets, winter clothes, &c., on this, folding over the sides and ends of the sheet to cover the contents completely, and sew them up tightly. If this parcel is then wrapped in sheets of strong brown paper, carefully pasted or gummed down, so that no cracks are to be found for the moth to creep into, these can be put away in perfect safety, either in close-fitting drawers or tightly-closed boxes or chests. Before use, the articles should, at the beginning of winter, be well shaken out and aired for a day or two in a diy room, and, if possible,, a draught, after which no smell of turpentine, &c., will be apparent. Old housewives recommend the wrapping pf a tallow candle in a brown-papep cylinder amongst