THE STORE ROOM, LARDER, &c. -13 and cream weigh a trifle more, and spirits a trifle less tlian water. It is well, if possible, to correct these makeshift measures by comparing them with recognised standard weights and measures. For instance, a gradu- ated minim glass will help you accurately to the small measures up to the gill. Again, it must be borne in mind that measures of capacity naturally differ according to the density of the article weighed. Judgment must, therefore, be used in such matters, but the following will give some idea of the variation: breakfastcupful of breadcrumbs, well pressed down, equals about 4oz. .'V breakfastcupful of butter, lard, or dripping, pressed down or melted, equals 7oz. A breakfastcupful of currants or sultanas, beaped, equals 6oz. A breakfastcupful of flour, arrowroot, cornflour, &c., level, equals 4oz. -V breakfastcupful of flour, arrowroot, cornflour, &c., heaped, equals 6oz. .V breakfastcupful of raisins, stoned and pressed down, equals 8oz. A breakfastcupful of rice, beaped. equals 7oz. breakfastcupful of sago, semolina, tapioca, &c., heaped, equals 4oz. A breakfastcupful of suet, finely minced and heaped, equals 4oz. A breakfastcupful of sugar, caster or moist, heaped, equals 8oz. A handful of flour is about 3oz. to 4oz. Cayenne pepper, a “ pinch ” of, equals a quarter to half a salt- spoonful. I’cpper, a “dash” of. equals a quarter of a saltspoon. N'utmeg, a " grate” of. equals a bare quarter of a saltspoon. It is well to remember, when measuring by spoonfuls and cupfuls, that there is a considerable difference be- tween a “level” or a “heaping” spoonful; the latter contains almost as much above as it does in the bowl of the spoon. To ensure a level spoonful, fill the spoon, then, with the back of a clean knife, sweep off its contents, whatever they are, level with the edges of the spoon. To obtain a level half-spoonful, after this pro- cess. slip the knife through the centre of the spoon lengthwise, removing all the ingredients on one side; if you divide the remainder crosswise, you obtain the quarter-.spoonful. The following will give .some general averages for ordi- nary kitehen ingredients: AppUf average five or six io the pound; 161b. make a peck. Ventif. broad, go 91b. to the peck. Kidney beans go lOib. to the peck.