HOUSEHOLD HlH^S. 04 It is well to know, should the bath water be muddy and unfit for use, that it can be cleared by adding to itafiill spoonful of powdered alum, and letting it stand for a few hours, when the dirt. &c., will have sunk to the bottom, and the clear water can be poured off for use. A teaspoonful of alum will clear four gallons of water. A good te.st of the condition of a filter is to add a table- spoonful of “ Condy’s fluid” to about a gallon of water, and pour this into tire filter. If, after standing some time, when you draw off the water it is still tinged with pink as it was at first, the filter is useless; but if the water comes out with a yellow or brownish tinge, the filter is actually harmful in itself, and has added organic im- purity to the water. Nor is this so rare as housewives fancy! If the filter, however, is acting properly, the water will come out clear, colourless, and tasteless. Frozen Pipes, Poilers, &o.—The following domestic hints are by R. W. Boyd, author of “ The ABC of a Healthy House” (105, New Bond-street), on “How to Keep out Frost and its Troublesome Consequences'” : 1. Object.—The object of the following hints is: First, to provide against great cold; and, second, to deal wisely with the water service supposing it to be affected by frost, and thus to minimise the trouble and expense of burst pipes, and the inconvenience of having no water in the house • at such times the want of a proper water supply adds enormously to risk from fire. '2. Main Fipcs.—^The water mains leading to the house should be 3 feet under ground—tliis is usually the busi- ness of the water company. 3. Branch Jkfam.—Now comes a weak point, viz., the supply pipe, which, if in town, has sometimes to cross an area. This pipe should be affixed to a wall, and should be boxed up with a large bulk of non-conducting waterproof material at each point accessible to cold; this applies to cisterns as well as to pipes. 4. Indoor Mains.—^When inside the house the pipes should he “run” in warm positions, and must be either emptied (a very crude plan) or kept above freezing point. 5. Empty Pipes.—If emptied, care must be taken that every drop of water is really nm out. 6. Pipes Charged.—The proper way, however, is to keep the house warm enough to exclude frost, and this is far more economical than letting in the frost, with all its subsequent mischief, heavy expense for repairs and redecoration, &c.