HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 48 itself, the linen being marked with the name of its special destination, and a list being fixed to the chest, «fec., containing it, as mentioned above for the linen press. Now, with regard to the quantity of linen required. The usual allowances are three pairs of sheets to each bed (where economy has to be considered, five pairs may be made to do for every two beds of the same size). As to the use of sheets, housekeepers entertain different opinions; .wine make their sheets up into pairs, others, again, divide them into upper and under sheets, their arrangement being to allow one under .sheet for each bed, either weekly or fortnightly, and two upper sheets for the same period, as they consider this greatly lessens the washing bill. Of course, this involves a larger number of upper than of under sheets. Another practice, where economy is concerned, is to have a clean sheet every week, the top sheet of one week becoming the under one of the following week - this, however, is a question that each housewife must decide for herself. From three to four pillowcases for each pillow, and the same number of bolster cases, if the latter are used. From six to nine chamber towels for each member of the family. Three hath towels for each person. Servants are usually allowed from three to four face towels, and two to three bath toivels, a head. These numbers allow, in the first case, from two to three face towels (one being changed in the course of the week) and one bath towel weekly; in the second, one face towel iveekly and one bath towel fortnightly. Two toilet covers for each toilet table (or three between two of a size), if in constant use. Two sets of short window screens for each window. where these are used. One white quilt for each bed, and one or two extra for each size, so as to allow for an occasional change for each bed. Three to four large tableclothes for dinner, and the same number for luncheon and breakfast, is the very smallest number available. The number of these, in point of fact, must, of course, vai-y with the amount of enter- taining, in which case six or twelve of each kind will be none too large. Twelve napkins to each tablecloth is the usual allow- ance, and for ordinary purposes is a fair one j but this,