rtj HOUSEHOLD HINTS. hy tlie iiicl'cased aroma and flavour thus obtained. Have a shelf for sauces, calourings, essences, and such like, and always keep a spare packet of best leaf gela- tine, a bag or two of freezing salt, two or three bottles of liqueur syrups for flavouring. &c., wherewith to re- plenish cook’s store cupboard, for allowing that lady the run of the store room, however trustworthy she may be, does not (emphatically) make for economy. A spare supply of leathers, Selvyts. rubbers, brushes, <fec., should also be kept in store. Keep your record of stores sharply, always putting the date when each kind was got in (this enables you to keep a check on their use), and, above all. be very particular to have stores renewed before they really give out. For instance, do not send for fresh supplies directly you give out the last speci- men to cook for her cupboard, but send the order directly your private store runs low. Cook should re- ceive a definite supply of groceries, &c., on a fixed day at a fixed time weekly; you should have a fixed time, say, monthly or quarterly, for looking through your store room and seeing what is required, and send your li.st of necessaries to the tradesman you employ sufficiently early to allow of the fresh stores arriving before the last supply is entirely exhausted. Whether you get your goods from a local tradesman or from some quasi-whole- sale firm is a matter for your own judgment. Very often in fairly large county towns tradesmen are glad to supply groceries, &c., in bulk at so little over store prices (^ter adding in the carriage, package, &c.) as to make it worth while to employ them, and. personally, where it can be done without upsetting one’s domestic budget, it always seems to me only fair to spend one’s money in one’s own country and among Avhat (by a stretch) may be called one’s own people. But remember, to ensure success in this matter, you must treat the local man as you would .your stores, i.e., give clearly made-out lists, and send payment with, or on the fulfilment of, the order. It is fairly easy to reckon up what groceries. &c.. will be needed. Of tea. coffee, or cocoa, the weekly allow- ance a head is usually 4oz. (the coffee, however, can hardly be gauged accurately, as tastes differ so as to its strength; still, the above is the ordinary housewife’s average); sugar varies from ^Ib. to 11b. a head weekly; the latter average should cover all purposes comfortabb' in a fairly large family. In a family of nine or ten, 81b. of sugar of all kinds, loaf, caster, and Demerara, will