99 VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. White Stains On.—These rather troublesome marks may be removed by holding a hot plate or hot iron over the spot, not exactly touching it, and then polishing it thoroughly with either the methylated spirit, &c., or the plain oil and vinegai' mixture given above. Liqueur, Lemonade, or Syrup Stained.— These stains, if fresh, may be removed with a little warm water and a soft cloth, afterwards polishing well with any cream to taste. If this fails, use a decoction of lukewarm coffee dregs, rubbing this well in, then drying with a little, old, soft cambric, and finishing off with some polish. Panels, &c., to Bender Fractically Incom- hiistible.—Paint these over two or three times with a strong solution of waterglass or silicate of soda. Old Oak, to Polish.—Boil two quarts of beer with loz. each of beeswax and of coarse, moist sugar until it is perfectly dissolved. Wash the furniture with warm beer till every bit of grease, dust, &c., is removed, being very careful to clean the crevices, &c. Now apply the beer, beeswax, &c., with a large soft brush and let it dry on, then rub the surface well up with a clean, soft cloth, or a leather, till it is bright . Insect and Other Pests.—Of these the best thing to say is: Never have any 1 This, however, is a counsel of perfection, though far more may be done to obviate these nuisances by systematic cleanliness and tidiness than housewives appear to be aware of. In well-kept, cleanly houses, to which air and light are freely admitted to every part, such pests, even if existent, are reduced almost to a negligible quantity. If no crumbs, scraps, or litter ai'6 over left about, for instance, mice, black beetles, ants, &c., are not attracted, in the first place, and if they do come should bo ruthlessly hunted down at once, careful search being instantly made for the origin of the hordes. With ants, earwigs, flies, and such like, there is always a nest somewliere in the neighbourhood, and this once discovered and destroyed, the plague is sensibly diminished, if not altogether cured. With mice and black beetles the great thing is to find out their point of entrance, and, having done so, to plaster up such cracks and crevices as strongly and completely as possible. The following will give some idea of the best way of dealing individually with such troubles. —This plague is undeniably one of the most H 2