HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 116 mix the resulting powder with either sweet or paraffin oil to a paste; apply this thickly, then rub it until di-y with relays of clean dusters; when it is perfectly dry, dip a clean dry duster into dry whiting, and polish it well. If this is properly applied it gives an almost silvery brightness to the metal. If steel grates have by any accident been blackened with Brunswick black, if it will not yield to the appli- cation of No. 1 or 2 emery cloth, followed by No. 0, rubbing it as much as possible one way, and finished with a chain burnisher, such as is used for harness, the quickest way would be to send it to an ironmonger and have the black blistered off. If the cleansing, however, must be done at home, the paste of paraffin oil and bath brick must be laid on thickly, left on for twenty-four hours, and then ^ain rubbed off with an old rag, and finally polished with fine emery paper. This process will have to be repeated probably several times, but in the end the black will be got rid of. Of course, burning it off does it immediat^y. Once it is cleaned it should be regularly polished, as steel, like many another thing, though troublesome to get right, is very easy to keep in condition with regular attention. Small articles, such as keys, buttons, &c., which have become very much rusted, should be left to steep for two or three days in oil, and then polished as above. Another recipe is this: Dissolve ioz. of camphor in nearly ^Ib. of lard; when perfectly melted, remove all the scum carefully, and, when nearly set, mix with this lard as much blacklead as will give it a rich iron colour, rub the ornaments with this mixture, leave them thus for twenty-four hours, then polish them with a linen cloth and a soft brush, and be careful to get all the paste off them. Some people say the blacklead should be added whilst the lard is still warm, and use it at once, allowing it to set on the steel; but this is a matter for personal experience. Things cleaned in this way keep bright for a long time. Steel knives and forks that have been allowed to get out of condition may be restored by any of the above methods. Remember, wheTi washing hnives or steel forks, to do so in a ,iug containing just water enough to cover the blades, or the steel parts, without touching the handles. It is well, if very greasy, to rub them well with a piece of paper, then wash at once in warm, but not hot, soapy water. (Remember that boiling water or any heat spoils the