iDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b24751248_0025THE NEW SYDENHAM SOCIETY. INSTITUTED MDCCCLVIII. YOLmiE XXV.YEAR-BOOK OF MEDICINE, SURGERY, AND THEIB ALLIED SCIENCES, / /. • FOB J - 18 6 4. \ V \ EDITED BY ME. JAMES HINTON, DE. HANDFIELD JONES, ME. WINDSOE, DE. MEABUEN BEIGHT, AND DE. HILTON EAGGE, FOK THE NEW SYDENHAM SOCIETY. LONDON. MDCCCLW.ROYAL COLLSGE OF PHY3ICIAN3 LiBRAriY CLASS ACon. SOI \ SOURCE 1 DATE ■ PntKTKD nT J. K. ADLAKD, BARTHOLOMEW CLOSK.CONTENTS. I.—EEPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. By James Hinton, M.R.C.S. PAGE I. Cells, Elementary Organisms, and Blood . . . .1 II. Forces concerned in Vital Phenomena ... 4 III. Circulation . . . . . .7 IV. Respiration ...... 14 V. Functions of the Skin . . . . .18 VI. Digestion and Secretion . ... . .18 VII. Muscular System . . . . . .23 VIII. Metamorphosis of Matter ..... 24 IX. Nervous System . . . . . .28 II.—REPOET ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE AND PATHOLOGY. By C. Handeield Jones, M.B. Cantah., F.R.S. General System ...... 33 Nervous System . . . . . . .66 Psycbiatrik ....... 101 Muscular System ....... HO Circulatory System . . . . . .111 Respiratory System ...... 128 Digestive System ...... 147 Secretory System ....... 154 Cutaneous System ...... 172 Subjects of General Interest ..... 186 III.—REPORT ON SURGERY. By TnoMAS Windsoh. Operative Siirgery . . . . . _ jg^ Materia Chirurgica and the Medical Treatment of Surgical Cases . . 203 Plastic Surgery 204 Wounds 206 Burns and Scalds . . . _ _ " £08 Gunshot Wounds . . . . ' 209 Suppuration ..... ' 215 Erysipelas . . . . ' " 217CONTENTS. VI Hospital Gangrene Pyajmia Septicasmia Tetanus Malignant Pustule "Venereal Diseases Gonorrhoea Syphilis Elephantiasis Anthrax. Muscles J Tendons Nerves Arteries Aneurism Veins Tumours Malignant Tumours Bones Spine Fractures Joints Dislocations Escisions Amputation Head Jaws Eye Eyelid Exophthalmus Iris Lens Retina . Amaurosis Ear Mouth Pharynx Palate Nares Parotid Larynx and Trachea Mamma Abdomen Intestinal Obstruction Hernia Rectum Genito-Urinary Organs Bladder Urethra Stone Extremities SPECIAL SURGEUYCONTENTS. vii lY.—REPORT ON MIDWIFERY AND THE DISEASES OE WOMEN AND CHILDREN. By John Meabtten Height, M.D. PAGE Literature 3o3 Midwifery . . ' • • • • 353 Diseases of Women 354 Diseases of Children ..... 354 MIDWIFERY. Statistics, &c. ...... . 354 General Anatomy and Physiology .... 356 Pregnancy ....... 361 Unusual Locality of Pregnancy ..... 364 Anteversion of the Gravid Uterus ..... 368 Retroversion of the Gravid Womh .... 368 Abortion ....... 369 Mechanism of Delivery ..... 371 Abnormal Conditions of the Pelvis (impeding Delivery) . . . 372 Abnormal Conditions of the Uterus .... 376 Plural Births . . . . . . .377 Abnormal Presentations ..... 378 Diseases, &c., of the Child impeding Delivery .... 380 Placenta Pra?via ...... 380 Rupture of the Uterus ...... 381 Laceration of the Perinseum ..... 382 Operations in Midwifery. Induction of Premature Labour ..... 382 Turning ....... 383 The Forceps ....... 384 Craniotomy ....... 385 Cephalotripsy ....... 387 Caisarean Section ...... 388 Transfusion ....... 389 DISEASES OF WOMEN. Physiology, &c. ...... 390 Affections of the Os and Cervix Uteri ..... 391 Amenorrhcea ....... 392 D\'smenorrhoea ....... 393 Flexions and Versions of the Uterus .... 393 Diseases of the Uterus.—Fibrous Tumours ol' the Uterus . . . 394 Carcinoma ....... 400 Pelvic Htematocele ...... 402 Polypus of the Uterus . . . . . . 405 Diseases of the Ovaries ...... 407 Ovariotomy . . . . . . _ " ^-^q DISEASES OF CHILDllEN. Circulation 414 Diseases of KcMjiiration . . . . . , " 4^5CONTENTS. VUl v.—EEPOET ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. By C. Hilton Fagge, M.D. PAGE General Therapeutics 417 British Pliarmacopoeia ...... 420 Inorganic Substances ... . . 42I Organic Substances ...... 432 Organic Chemical Products ...... 451 VI.—EEPOET ON EOEENSIC MEDICINE. By C. Hilton Paqge, M.D. Blood-stains ....... 456 Wounds and Injuries . . . . . . 456 Suffocation . ...... 458 Cold . . . . . . . .458 Burns ....... 459 Pregnancy ....... 459 Abortion . . . . . . . 460 Delivery . ...... 460 Infanticide ....... 460 Disease ........ 465 Insanity ....... 465 VII.—EEPOET ON PUBLIC HEALTH. By Dr. C. Hilton Fagge, M.D. Literature ....... 466 Vaccination ....... 4-66 Hospitals ....... 467 Malaria ....... 467 Ventilation . . . . . . .468 Water ....... 469 Food . . . . . . • .470 Medicine ....... 471 Occupations ....... 471 Deaf-Mutism . . . . . . . 479 Index 481J 1 \ REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. BT JAMES HINTON, M.E.C.S., AUBAL StJKGEON AND LECTUEEE ON AtTEAL SUEGEEY TO GUY'S HOSPITAL. I. CELLS, ELEMEKTAUX OEQAITISMS, AND BLOOD. W. PKETEB("On Amoeboid Blood-corpuscles," 'Virchow's Archiv,' vol. 36, p. 417) affirms, from observations on the red blood-corpus- cles of frogs and salamanders, that in the normal condition those of the latter (if not of both) possess a membrane which encloses the nucleus and the proper substance of the corpuscle. This latter consists of dissolved colouring matter (liEemato-crystallin) and of a colourless matter (protoplasma), which, both in connection with the colouring matter and apart from it, exhibits under certain conditions a contractility like that which is observed in many of the lower organisms. Hackel (' Kadiolarien,' Leipsic, 1862, pp. ioj-6) affirms that the blood-corpuscles of many invertebrates put forth processes precisely like the pseudopoda of the Amoeba, and by means of these absorb into their substance coloured par- ticles from the surrounding fluid. This observation Preyer confirms, and states further that the colourless blood-corpuscles and lymph-cells of Batrachia behave in precisely the same way ; and that they, as well as the blood-corpuscles of the Tnvertebrata, are membraneless masses of pro- toplasma, most of which contain one or more plainly visible nuclei. Pig- ment-containing cells are in some cases formed by the same amoeba-like process ; contractile masses of protoplasma taking up and enclosing within themselves free particles of colouring matter. This Preyer has seen in effusions of blood artificially caused in the lymph-sac of the fx'og or salamander. Thus, too, Preyer believes, are formed the blood-corpuscle- containing cells which have given rise to so much discussion. He has seen the red corpuscles of the blood of Batrachia cast-off fragments, which retain their colour; sometimes this takes place to such an extent as to leave the nucleus surrounded merely by a narrow ring. The cast-off por- tions arc embraced and taken up by contractile colourless cells, in which tlic small particles reunite into larger masses. He has frequently seen the form, size, and number of the contained " blood-corpuscles " vary when watched during a short period, and finds no difficulty in believing that the same processes of division and reunion of the coloured corpuscles,BEVORT ON PIiySIOLOGY. 2 which take place externally to the cells, occur also within them. In the amceba-likc processes which the blood-corpuscles put forth a rhyth- mical change may often be observed from a varicose to a 'smooth outline, and vice vcrsd. In stagnant blood these changes may continue under favorable circumstances for an hour. Tlie cliangcs thus observed in the extravasatcd blood-cells of the frog are similar to those which Beale has obtained by warmth, and KoUiker by the addition of a dilute solution of urea, but the latter take place much more quickl3^ Prcyer ascribes the gradual disappearance of the corpuscle under the urea solution to the cllcct of the water. Crystals of urea, best applied by suffering a drop of the solution to evaporate and then placing the blood on the same spot, induced only rapid transformations and the throwing off of separated portions. In frogs engaged in the act of coitus and in breeding salamanders Preyer has also observed a "spontaneous" division of the blood-corpuscles. In this case the enclosing membrane becomes clearly visible by the separa- tion from it of the contents at the point of division. The protoplasma and nucleus alike assume the form of a figure of 8, and by degrees the two portions become quite distinct. Preyer, however, has never seen them entirely separated or sejiarable. Probably in the vessels of the animal they are borne apart in the course of the circulation. This multiplica- tion of the batrachian blood-corpuscles at certain periods differs from that first observed by Kemak in the blood of the embryos of mammals and birds, as well as reptiles, in this respect—in the mammalian embryo the nucleus appears first to divide, and carries with it the division of the rest of the cell; in the adult batrachian the protoplasma seems to undergo the first change, and the nucleus is involved with it. Osmosis of AlbtMnen.—A. Schmidt observes that albumen in its ordinary state is almost completely non-diffusible, and that previous to its entrance into the cells of the living organism it undergoes a change which renders it diffusible—akin to that which it suffers during digestion, in being eon- verted into the peptones. It becomes, in fact, glohulin—the fibrino- plastic substance of Schmidt—and as such undergoes exosmose freely in presence of the intercellular fluids which are rich in the fibrino-genic sub- stance. This was proved by the endosmometer, through which the serum of the blood rapidly produced coagulation in {e.g.) perieardialfluid. Schmidt, however, would not affirm that the exosmose of globulin is more free into fibrino-genic fluids than into water, although in the former case its coagu- lating power is much greater, because in the latter case the fibrino-plastic substance rapidly loses its power by exposure to the air. The fibrino-genic substance, on the other hand, does not undergo osmosis; an alkaline solution of it placed in an endosmometer in water does not difiuse into the latter, nor when thus placed in contact with globulin does any coagulation take place in the latter, as would happen if the fibrino-genic substance diffused. According to Graham's researches, globulin, on account of its diflusibi- lity, must be reckoned among the crystalline group, though it has not 3-et been, and probably never will be, isolated in a crystalline form. It crys- tallizes, however, 'in union with the colouring matter of the blood, as is shown by the fibrino-plastic power of hainiato-crystallin. Cause of the cliaiu/e of colour in the JSIood—To determine whether theBLOOD, 3 changeof colour in the blood by means of oxygen, Cog, and other reagents, was duo to a chemical action, or to the altered form of the blood-cor- puscles, Schmidt first added 7 to lo volumes of water to the blood and then filtered it. By this means the corpuscles were entirely removed in a decolourised state from the blood of tne horse and dog, the hsematin re- maining in solution. In the blood of the ox this separation was not effected by filtering. The hismatin thus isolated is no longer altered in colour by 0, but it is darkened by Coo. Weak acids and alkalies also darken it, but neutral salts, alcohol, and ether, have no effect on the colour. Further, Schmidt found, by adding the decolourised corpuscles to the di- luted blood that the influence of 0 upon the colour was precisely in pro- portion to their quantity, and that the change appeared greater by reflected than by transmitted light. To observe the relations of the pigment when present in its normal amount, he concentrated the diluted and filtered blood again to its original quantity. The appearance of the fluid was like that of blood in which the globules have been rendered in- visible by alcohol or ether. O rendered it somewhat brighter, but the effect was exceedingly slight, and was not perceptible in thin layers of the fluid. The darkening effect of Cog was very marked. In this solution the blood- pigment exhibited its natural dark colour; in the blood it is rendered brighter by the presence of the solid elements. Thus it appears that the changes of colour wrought in the blood by O and Coj are partly chemical and pai-tly physical; that is, are due partly to an action on the hrematin, partly to an action on the cell-wall. Cog acts chiefly chemically, 0 chiefly physically. Acids and alkalies act chemically, neutral salts act physically, as also do ether and alcohol, the former by dissolving the corpuscles, the latter by causing them to swell and the pigment to escape. On the Crystallization of the Blood, Schmidt remarks that the re- sistance of the blood-corpuscles to the action of oxygen is much less than is usually supposed. By pouring blood into glass flasks with flat bottoms and narrow necks, so as to form very thin layers without incurring too rapid a desiccation, he found that in the course of 15 or 18 hours the globules of dog's blood were decolourised, and after 36 hours they had entirely disappeared. The same changes took place in horse and ox blood in i\ to 3 days. That this effect is due to oxidation is proved by the facb that it is brought about much more rapidly by ozone. Alter- nating CO2 with the O does not accelerate the changes, as Ilarless thought. In respect to the blood of the dog, the horse, and the ox, there is a strict parallelism between the solubility of the corpuscles by oxygen and the tendency to crystallization ; both processes take place most readily in the dog, least readily in the ox. In crystallization of the blood two steps arc necessary—first, _ the separation of the hsemato-globulin from the cells and its solution in the serum; and secondly, its precipitation thence, by a diminution of the solvent fluid. The latter may be effected either by evaporation or by the addition of anhydrous salts, especially the sul- phate of soda. Alcohol and ether produce both effects. The globules disappear entirely under their influence, but, after the addition of alcohol, coiiccutrated solutions of albumen, sugar, or neutral salts, render them vi-sible again as pale, colourless discs. This is not the case after the addition of ether. Alcohol caused crystallization in dog's blood only, not iu thatUEPOllT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 4 of the horse or ox. Blood-crystals being easily soluble in dilute acids or alkalies, the alkali of tlio blood tends to hold them in solution, and hence, neutralizing this alkali by CO.^, or by acetic, sulphuric, or hydrochloric acid, iaeilitates their deposition. It is in this way only that the addition of CO.^, acts in producing crystallization ; a further deposit always ensues on evaporation. A partial o.\idation prepares the blood for crystallization by separating the hramato-globulin from the corpuscles, but carried further it altogether prevents it. 13oth effects are rapidly produced by ozone—as by shaking the blood with a few drops of ozonized turpentine. Wh.en the blood thus shaken loses its dark-red colour and transparency, and becomes greenish and turbid or exhibits white flakes, the period of crystallization is pa.st. The most favorable time is when the hjemato-globulin is dis- solved out of the cells, but the latter are still distinguishable. Schmidt observed also that if the corpuscles of horse's blood were allowed to subside, and then, the serum being carefully drawn off, were shaken with so much ozonized turpentine, that the corpuscles were dis- solved in one or two hours, the blood formed a jelly-like coagulum. Allowing this to contract, by separating it carefully from the walls of the vessel, a fluid containing erystallizable hsemato-globulin is pressed out. The clot contains no corpuscles—only flakes which exhibit a remarkably fine granular structure. Thus, by an active oxidation of the corpuscles, these are not only dissolved, but a pi'ocess is set on foot which has a certain resemblance to the coagulation of fibrin. Unozonized turpentine does not produce a like effect. Schmidt is of opinion that the crystallization of the blood by means of an electric current, as discovered by Rollet, is due to an oxidizing process effected by the ozone which the current produces from the 0 contained in the blood. ('Virchow's Archiv,' B. 29, 1864, p. i.) On the cause of the red colour in Inflammation.—MM. Estor and St. Pierre communicate the following results:—In acute innamrnatiou the venous blood is evidently more red than that of the healthy side. It contains, constantly, a larger proportion of oxygen, in the proportion of I'5 or 2*5 to I. It also affords more carbonic acid. The authors ascribe the red colour to the effect of the greater amount of 0 in brightening the venous blood of an inflamed part. (' Arch.gen. deMed.,' May, i864,p.653.) II. rOBCES COirCEENED IK YITAL PHENOMENA. Dr. J. Lcmaire, to test the presence of microphytes and microzoa in the air, condensed the vapour of the atmosphere by freezing, and examined the changes which took place in the liquid thus obtained. He carried out his experiments at 3 places—(i) near some fishponds at Sologne, a district where marsh fever prevails; (2) at the Jardin dcs Plantes in Paris; (3) at Romainville, 300 feet above the level of the Seine, and a very healthy district. In each case the water thus obtained contained, besides grains of starch and dust, spores and small semi- transparent bodies of various shapes. These, however, were very numerous at Sologne, comparatively very few at Eomainville, at the Jardin dcs Plantes they were numerous again. In the course of 24 hours vegetable filaments, vibrios, bacteria, spirilla, and monads, began to take the place of these bodies, and the water became more or less putrid.5 FORCES CONCERNED IN VITAL PHENOMENA. These organisms multiplied for a few days, and then gradually disappeared ; the animaleuliB first becoming motionless. In 11; days at Sologne and in 3 days at Eomainville only a few monads were discoverable. The vegetable substances disappeared first, and then the animalculse, in the order of their smallness. Dr. Lemaire observes that the organic germs were most numerous where fever prevailed. His experiments lead to the conclusion that organic matters are not dangerous except in so far as they contain microphytes and microzoa. At a subsequent sitting he showed that vegetable or animal germs, or both, are given off into the air in great numbers from fermenting and putrefying substances. (' Comptes Eend.,' vol. 59, P- .317-) Effects of Liglit upon Vegetable Life.—F. V. Jodin, m studymg the effects of light upon vegetable principles, finds that in many of these, such as turpentine and tannin, but especially in chlorophyll, light effects a rapid oxidation, while in the dark they remain unaltered. Thus, it appears that, apart from "life," the effect of light is precisely inverse to that which it produces under the influence of the living tissues. And not only so, but the life of the plant also, apart from light, exhibits itself only in phenomena of combustion, the plant becoming etiolated. The two forces together give an inverse result to that of either alone. (' Comptes Rendus,' vol. 59, p. 858.) Boussingault discusses the same subject (' Comptes Eondus,' vol. 58, p. 917). Seeds (maize) growing in darkness undergo the following changes : TVof i.t Starch and GIutobo p„ii„i„ » Azotizcd Mineral Undetermined weifcUt. Dextrine, and Sugar. ^-eUulose. n,.^tt(,i._ matter. maltcr. prill. grm. grm. gi-m. grm. gnu. gnu. grm. Seed . . 86 6'4 — o'5 o'5 o'9 o'2 0-2 Plant , . 4*5 07 0-9 o'2 i'3 o'9 o"2 0-4 Dlflerence —4'i —57 -fo'9 —0-3 -fo'S ... ... -f-o'2 The process is essentially the same as that of the development of the egg, both being attended with loss of weight and, so far at least as the eggs of turtles are concerned, with a development of heat. The seed, however, requires water from without, as well as air and warmth; the egg contains its own supply. The life of a plant growing in darkness answers to that of an animal unprovided with special organs of respiration. And the analogy is rendered more complete through the production by the plant (peas, beans, clover) of an azotized substance, asparagine, which is a product of combustion, and answers to urea. This substance is also formed in the light so long aa the corabustive process exceeds the deoxi- dation, but it disappears when the latter is most active, as just before the period of flowering. Effect of Heat locally api^lied on Development.—C. Dareste, in pur- suance of his investigations on the artificial production of monstrosities, states that in the egg of the fowl the area vasculosa, which is normally of a circular shape, and equally divided by the embryo, becomes oval and is unequally divided if the heat by which the hatching is effected is applied at a single point of the shell, this point not corresponding with its highest portion, wliere the embryo is situated. In machines in which heated air is used, and also in those in which the heat, though applied at a single point, is directed to the part occupied by the germinal vesicle, nollEPOUT ON PUYSIOLOO-V. 6 malformation occurs. In natural incubation M. Dareste observes tlie warmth is applied directly from above. He found that heat applied to single points of eggs which had been coated with wax caused the wax to melt in circular and not in irregular forms. The abnormal development, therefore, is not due to unequal conduction. (' Comptes llend.,' vol. 59.) ' Pliysiological effects of Oxygen.—Demarquay's and Leconte's experi- ments with oxygen were made first on animals. Dogs could bo made to breathe large quantities with no other effect than increased liveliness and appetite. When large wounds were made in the axilljc of the animals there was observed a considerable injection of the vessels of the wound, with the secretion of a clear serous fluid, and on continuing the inhalation of the gas numerous small petechire or ecchymoses formed. The injection of 0 into the veins has similar effects. If the injection were made into the vena portte, or into the vena cava below the liver, a considerable quantity of 0 could bo introduced into the blood without ill effects. Two litres—nearly 2 quarts—did not cause death. No alteration ensued in the colour of the blood, the spleen alone assumed a scarlet hue; all tiie veins of the abdomen were turgid, as if the mass of the blood had been increased by the injection. In respect to the changes in the organism from the respiration of O, it was found, from experiments on rabbits— (i) That these animals can live from 14 to 17 hours in pure oxygen. (2) That when death occurred the muscular system was unusually engorged with blood, and had assumed a peculiarly rosy tint. (3) That the ordinary difference in colour between arterial and venous blood, contrary to the opinion of Broughton, was perfectly well marked. (4) That, contrary to Beddoes' statement, no organ, however vascular, was inflamed or gangrenous. In the human subject, when O was applied to old or recent wounds it excited only a feeling of slight tickling or burning ; in healthy wounds the pus became less in quantitj'^ and thicker, and the granulations appeared smaller and gray in colour. But after repeated applications they again became red and turgescent, and active inflammation ensued, with increased suppui'ation. Injection of 0 into cavities with a mucous or serous lining produced the same sensations; in one case a hydrocele was cured by it. Various sick and healthy persons inspired O for several weeks to the extent of i_5 to 30 quarts a day, without injury. A little feeling of warmth in the throat or in the chest, and sometimes a slight degree of confusion or headache, are the sensations first excited; the pulse becomes more powerful, and in many cases slower; often there ensues on prolonged use a feeling of improved health and increased appetite. These good effects, however, did not occur in persons exhausted by prolonged diseases and in their case after some days effects similar to those produced by O on wounds became perceptible. The direct effect of 0 on the congested or inflamed tissues surrounding wounds or ulcers is very marked; the redness is rajiidly removed, as also is frequentlj'^ the red ring which surrounds eczema. The indications for the emplo^-mcnt of 0 in disease are chiefly anremia, whether in surgical cases or in cachectic conditions, such as syphilis, diabetes, cancer; the contra-indications are—(i) fever, with the exception of certain special diatheses, as croup, e.g.; (2) deep- seated abscesses, or lesions of internal oi'gans, (3) ; diseases of the heart7 CIECULATION, or great vessels ; (4) a nervous condition not caused by ansemia. ('Comptes Eendus,' 1864, i, p. 196.) III. OIEOUI/ATION. Influence of tJie gaseous contents of the Shod on the activity of the Heart.—L. Thiry's experiments lead him to the conclusion that blood which is wanting in oxygen influences the heart through irritation of the vagi. This is in opposition to Franke's view, that COj in the blood is a powerful stimulant to the motor nerves of the heart. If in a rabbit, whose heart is exposed, the access of air to the lungs is cut off, the left cavities may be seen to fill with dark-red blood, without any alteration taking place in its action; a few seconds later, that is at the time when the unaerated blood reaches the capillaries, including those of the medulla oblongata and the origin of the vagi, the heart begins suddenly to beat more slowly, and after a few contractions either stands still in the diastole or pulsates only at long intervals. Up to this time no symptoms of dyspnoea are exhibited; they occur first during the quiescence of the heart. At last general convulsions set in, and the heart, which hitherto had dilated only gradually and to a moderate amount (probably through relaxation), is now suddenly greatly distended. These phenomena occur in the com'se of about io seconds. If artificial respiration is now established the heart again begins to pulsate, but not immediately ; only after it has been filled with bright-red blood, and this has been driven further by its isolated contractile movenients, does it begin, often quite suddenly, again to beat with a frequency and force nearly equal to that which it possessed at first. It follows that the action of the heart is stopped and renewed, not by the influence of the blood upon the heart itself, but by its effect upon the crigin of the vagus. If artificial respiration is not used the heart begins again to beat after some time, evidently from exhaustion of the excited vagus. The contractions, however, are very weak; they continue a short time after death. If the vagi are divided these effects do not take place. In spite of the interruption of respiration the heart continues to beat for some time with its former frequency; its action gradually grows slower, but does not cease until after death. The convulsions do not affect its rhythm. If the vagi are divided when the heart is at a standstill it begins again to beat. That the effects described are due, not to the presence of C0„ in the blood-, but to absence of 0, is proved by the fact that they occur in the same way if instead of stopping the respiration hydrogen or other neutral gas is breathed. The arterial pressure is first increased by inter- ruption of the respiration, the heart's action, though retarded, being very powerful; afterwards it sinks. ('Henle uud Pfeufer's Zeitsch.,' 1864, vol. 21, p. 17.) The Pulse.—J. L. Marey has carried further his attcmpts'to give a more satisfactory physical basis to the doctrine of the circulation. He em- ployed for this end three modes of proceeding:—ist. To measure the pressure within the various cavities of the heart, he introduced into them clastic bladders, protected by perforated metallic cases ; these bladders were filled with air, and communicated by elastic tubes with a correspond- ing bladder the movements of which were traced by means of a leverIlEPORT ON PlIVSIOLOOY. 8 upon a slip of paper moved by clockwork, 2nd. A modified and very delicate registering spliygmograpli was employed to delineate tlie move- ments of the pulse. .3rd. A series of elastic tubes was constructed to represent the arterial system, proceeding from a central vessel provided with valves to represent tlie (left side of the) heart. Through these tubes currents of fluid were passed by means of an elastic bottle com- pressed at regular intervals by the hand, so producing the chief physical conditions of tlio circulation of the blood. Every explanation given was put to the test upon these tubes. Among the numerous results arrived at are the following. Taking the entire cycle of the heart's action at one second, the contraction of the auricle precedes that of the ventricle by two tenths of a second ; it lasts one tentli, that of the ventricles lasts four tenths. The impulse is due to the heart assuming a globular form. Each of the changes which occur within the heart leaves its distinct mark upon the figure delineated—the depletion and repletion of the ventricle, the systole of the auricle, and the closure of the auriculo-ventricular and of the sigmoid valves. Owing to the retractility of the lungs, the heart is subject to a " negative pressure " during inspiration. In measuring the variations of pressure within tho cavities by means of a mercurial manometer, Marey found that in the right auricle the pressure was negative during almost the whole period; in some rare cases, owing to the presence of a large quantity of blood, the pressure was positive throughout. In the right ventricle the pressure is negative only at its upper part, and at the commencement of the diastole. In the left auricle there is more constantly a short negative period. The minimum pressure is in the right auricle from — 2 to 33 milli- metres (—I to 16 lines), in the right ventricle from— 16 to + 20 milli- metres (from—8 to + 10 lines), generally it is -f- 5 lines. The force exerted by the various cavities was in one case— For the right auricle 2'5 rain. (i*2 lines). „ left auricle (by calculation) . . . 2 „ (i „ ). „ right ventricle 25 „ (i inch), „ left ventricle 128 „ (5" 14,,). The experiments were made on horses, and a correction made for the increased temperature within tlie cavities of the heart. With regard to the sounds of the heart, the first is due chiefly to the sudden tension of the auriculo-ventricular valves, reinforced by the mus- cular bruit. The second is due wholly to the sigmoid valves. They are perfectly reproduced by the valves of the artificial system. The pulse depends neither on dilatation nor motion of the artery, nor on the impulse of the blood, but on a change in the arterial tension simply. This tension diminishes from the heart to the capillaries ; it varies with the amount of the contraction of the latter, and is inverse to the rapidity of the circulation. On comparing the lines given by the left ventricle and the aorta, it appears that the ventricle contracts about one tenth of a second before it opens the sigmoid valves ; tiiis interval is spent in closing the mitral. The pressure in the aorta is generally a little less than in the ventricle. The variations in the rate of the pulse are determined chiefly by the9 CIRCULATION. variations in the arterial tension. The heart acts more or less quickly according to the " weight " it has to overcome. What favours the cir- culation^in the capillaries quickens, what liinders it retards, the heart's heat. This is proved by the sphygmograph, which demonstrates the co- existence of low arterial tension with rapid pulse, and vice versd. Most of the causes whicli influence the heart's action affect first the capillaries. Eapidity of pulse is due, not to increased force, but diminished resistance, and is a sign, not of force, but of weakness. Food, however, and severe muscular exertion, such as may hinder the free passage of the blood, increase at once the rate of the pulse and the arterial tension. The force of the pulse is not a measure of the heart's power nor of the con- stitution, but of conditions of the arteries only. It depends, fir.st, on the volume of the artery, aud, secondly, inversely on the tension. The finger detects in the pulse, not the extent, but only the speed of the movements. Dicrotism of the pulse is due to oscillation of the blood through its acquired velocity; in the artificial system of tubes it was absent when air was used, present in a certain degree with water, and to much greater extent with mercury. It arises from retardation at the capillaries, and varies with the length of the artery ; hence it is more marked in the distal arteries than in the aorta. It is determined by rapidity and quick ceasing of the impulse ; hence it is most in the young and in diseases like typhoid, in which the elasticity is increased, the contractility which neutralizes part of it being lost. It is increased also by diminution of arterial tension, as in bleeding, and is in proportion to the smallness of the amount of blood propagated by the heart. The influence of the respiration on the line traced by the pulse is capable of giving valuable information. In the normal condition this influence is small. Expiration elevates and inspiration lowers somewhat the general outline which indicates the average arterial tension, owing to the varying pressure on the thoracic aorta; but the effect of respiration on the abdo- minal aorta is precisely the inverse, that vessel being compressed during inspiration when the thoracic aorta is expanded. These two influences nearly neutralize eacli other. But every hindrance to the passage of air into the lungs increases the thoracic influences, and produces elevation of the outline during expiration, and its descent during inspiration. This effect is observed during respiration through a single nostril. Every hindrance to the enlargement of the abdomen, on the other hand, pro- duces the inverse effect—the ascent of the outline at the moment of inspiration, and its descent during expiration. Keeping the mouth open and breathing very freely suffices to give predominance to the abdominal influences. A prolonged inspiration in some subjects will temporarily stop the heart's action. The line given under these circumstances resembles that produced when the pneumogastrics are galvanized. Marey ascribes the result to an excitation of the pneumogastrics by the extreme dilatation of the lungs. In respect to the capillary circulation, Marey is of opinion that there is only one force which moves the blood—pressure; and only one variant of the motion—the size of the capiHaries, which is regulated by their con- tractility. This varies continually with the weight of blood to which the capillaries are exposed, being greater for each organ in a depending10 REPORT OX PnYSIOLOGy. than in an elevated position. It is increased also by cold and diminislied by heat; and on tliis fact depends tlie maintenance of a uniform tern- perature, the cooling of the blood in the extremities and on the surface of the body being thus favoured by heat and diminished by cold. In the application of his experiments to the elucidation of disease Marey traces the phenomena of fever to relaxation of the capillaries, analogous to a, universal section of tlie sympathetic, the arterial tension being diminished, except in the criqHive fevers, in whicli it is increased. Thus, the eruptive fevers seem to differ from other febrile states, the heart in them being primarily excited. The main phenomena of algidity are due to capillary contraction. If the pulse is more rapid in vomiting, and in cholera and hajmorrhage, this is because of the efort in the first case, and in the latter diseases the loss of fluid diminishes the arterial tension in spite of the state of vascular contraction. If all the vessels liad opposing sets of vaso-motor nerves (as the glands have), the phenomena of fever and rigor might be referred to the action or paralysis of one or other order; but seeing it is not so, the action is exhibited by the state of contraction, and the relaxation is an exhaustion consequent on it. In- flammation also is a result of vascular relaxation ; it tends towards the surface of the body, because the vessels which are subject to the least compression most easily yield. Union by first intention depends chiefly upon sufficient ^jresszjre, which prevents the relaxation of the vessels. The subsidence of the inflammatory state is to be ascribed to the vessels acquiring Ij/ custom a greater contractility, which enables them to regain their normal calibre in spite of conditions which tend to their relaxation. Senile degeneration of the arteries leaves its trace upon the pulse, more or less, in by far the greater number of persons past 50. In aneurism the enfeeblemeut and retardation of the pulse are due to the elasticity of the sac alone, and not to the presence of coagula. The phenomena are the same upon the artificial system. Tiie presence of solid fibrine within the sac reveals itself, by means of the sphygmograph, in the form of the pulse, which is less modified in proportion as the con- tents of the tumour are solid. For the diagnosis between aneurisms and solid pulsating tumours this instrument may also be employed. The tumour being pressed upon, if it be solid the curve of the pulsation is increased, if an aneurism the curve is diminished. The Lr^tit de souffle is in all cases due to a very diminished arterial tension ; it is produced by the passage of a stream of fluid from a smaller to a larger space under a slight resistance, so that it acquires a high velocity, and throws the surrounding structures into vibration together with itself. A narrow jet of liquid issuing freely into a glass tube pro- duces no bruit, but if it passes through a layer of fluid a decided bruit is produced, in which the tube participates. Every kind of bruit can be produced on an elastic tube by varying pressure. Anajmia causes bruits to be more easily produced, by the capillary relaxation it induces, render- ing the flow of blood more free, and so diminishing arterial tension. Fever, violent exercise, and, as witnessed in one case, poisoning bj- opium, produce bruits in this way. In fine, the various lesions, valvular and other, of tlie heart, and certain general diseases—among whicli are emphysema, rheumatism, jaundice,11 CIUCULiVTION. lead colic—^ve by the sphygmograph characteristic traces which aid materially in their diagnosis. But it should always be remembered that the form and otlier qualities of the pulse—which can be really estimated only by an instrument of this kind—exhibit simply the influence of cer- tain physical conditions which may bo common to many morbid states, and are not themselves pathognomonic of diseases. (' The Medical Phy- siology of the Circulation, based upon the Physical Study of the Move- ments of the Heart and of the Pulse.' Paris, 1863.) Dr. Koschlakoff has pursued this subject further. On testing the sphygmograph used by Marey by means of a manometer, the lever was found to exhibit certain movements due to acquired velocity, but these do not materially affect its results. In the artificial system of tubes a pump moved by a weight, which could be rapidly graduated to any amount, was substituted for pressure by the hand, and valves preciselj'- corresponding inform to those of the aorta were introduced. Respecting the cause of dierotism of the pulse, he is somewhat at variance with Marey. Agreeing with him that it requires a rapid systole {i. e. a considerable force in proportion to the amount of blood propelled), he denies that it is dependent on tlie arterial tension. It varies with the capillary resistance and with the force of the heart. Increase of the resistance (the heart- force remaining the same) destroys dierotism ; even tying the sphygmo- graph firmly on the limb may have this efFecfc. In experiments on the dead body the oedema produced by the artificial circulation sufficed to render the pulse non-dicrotic ; incisions restored that character. On the other hand, increase in the heart's force (the resistance and amount of fluid being the jame) makes the pulse dicrotic. In heart disease the double stroke is marked when the hindrance to the circulation is not well compensated. Koschlakoff denies that lesions of the heart afford special forms of pulse-line. Even in advanced disease this is often not different from that of health. This, however, is not necessarily opposed to Marey's statement, who affirms rather that, when heart disease is otherwise indi- cated, the pulse-line may give evidence of its nature. (' Yirchow's Arch.,' V. 29, 1864.) Dr. Landois also ('Reichert's Archiv,' i, 1864, p. 77) affirms that dierotism—or rather polycrotism—is the normal form of the pulse-curve, adducing in proof the fact that the dierotism is more marked, and ensues at shorter intervals, in proportion to the nearness of the artery to the heart, i. c. to the valves of the aorta, to the reflection of the blood from which the phenomenon is due. He reproduced the same effect by the use of clastic tubes, through which a stream of water circulated, cut off at intervals by a rnetal compress. Also by the use of the less elastic mtcstine of the rabbit the successive waves in opposite directions were rendered visible to the eye, as they were also by attaching to the elastic tube a portion of glass pipe into which a loose thread was introduced. Further, the upward limb of the curve given by the sphygmograph pre- sents successive elevations when the interval between the opening and closing of the valve is of a certain duration (half a second, e.(/.), an effect due to the elasticity of the tubes. In the ordinary action of'the heart the closure of the aortic valves ensues too rapidly upon their openin"-'to give this form, but in dilatation and hypertrophy of the left ventricle as12 aEPOlir ON PUYSIOLOGY. also in dufoct of the valvea, and especially in Bright's disease it is fre- quently present. ' Br. 0. Neumann also deseribes a new liajraodynamometer (' Wunder- lich's Archiv fiir Heilkundc,' 1864, p. 403), by means of which he also arrives at the conclusion tliat the secondary (diastolic) pulse-wave is a normal phenomenon, due to the recoil of the blood upon the aortic valves. The contraction of the vessels takes place in two strokes, between which the diastolic wave occurs. Tlic duration of the expansion of the artery is to that of its contraction not nearly as 100 to 106, but at most as i to 3. Drferenees letween the r'ujU and left Cavities of the Heart.—G. Colen ('Comptes llend.,' 2, 1864, p. 957) gives the following as the results of his experiments:—(i) The impulsive force of the left ventricle is only a fourth that of the right. In a horse of average size the force of tiie right side was from 230 to 240 lb., of the left from 56 to 60 lb. (2) During violent exertions the force of the right ventricle increases at the most only by one half, that of the left may rise to double or even treble. (3) The quantity of blood received and ejected by each moiety of the heart in the same time are not equal. The left auricle, which is the larger, does not propel its whole contents; part remains within it, part re-enters the veins. On the right side there is no sensible reflux. (4) The right ventricle also does not transmit the whole of its contents during expiration ; the balance is restored during inspiration. (5) The pressure of blood in the pulmonary system is, on an average, one fifth of that in the aortic; it may rise during exertion to one half. The rapidity of the circulation is six times less on the right side than on the left, and is subject to great fluctuations. On the share of the Blood-vessels, especially of the Capillaries, in New Formations (C. 0. Weber).—The relation of the vessels to new formations is twofold—on the one hand new vessels grow out from the old, on the other the cell-elements of the vessels play an essential part in the deve- lopment of the new structures. A gradual transformation of capillaries into small arteries and veins, and of the latter into larger ones, is more frequent than a strict formation of new vessels. The capillaries are not merely enlarged, but all tlie elements which normally constitute arteries and veins are formed from the surrounding tissues. In a ease of fibrous tumour of the uterus Weber found in the adhesions which connected it with the abdominal walls new vessels of the size of a goose-quill, wliich communicated with the epigastric and mesenteric arteries, and with the vena porta3. They are present in fibroid tumours in parts otherwise very poor in vessels. Their development takes place on two types—that of cell formation, in which nuclei are arranged in a row, passing outwards from a capillary, and form a small "street,'^ which afterwards becomes pervious to the blood; and that of gramilation-shoots, which consist in the formation of solid outgrowths of nuclei, thickly heaped together, which become hollow and communicate with the vessels. In congenital nffivi the new vessels are due sometimes merely to extension and thick- ening, but sometimes they arise by means of loop- or grape-formed out- growths from the vessels. Tlie cells of the connective tissue may come, though seldom, into direct connection with the vessels, become expanded, and pervious to blood. Most frequently there is first formed on tiie13 CIRCULATION. outer side of a vessel an accumulation of nuclei; this increases in length, and becomes hollow. From such an outgrowth grape-like clusters of vessels may arise by a repetition of the same process; or it may form a loop either by the springing up of an internal partition, or by bencling on itself and ending in a kind of streak of protoplasma, which rejoins the vessel and forms a patli for tlie multiplying nuclei; or, finally, there may oTow from one vessel to another two narrow canals sparingly supplied with alternating nuclei, which seem to depend on a gradual projecting outwards of tlie new nuclei which arise from the division of the nuclei of the vessels. In cavernous tumours the strict formation of new vessels is rare. In inflammation of serous membranes, together with the conical out- growths which afterwards become hollow, there are formed also thick cylinders, consisting of oblong cells, at first solid, then pervious, just as in granulations. Similarly formed new vessels are met with in inflamed synovial membranes and> in tubercular and other forms of meningitis. The granulations which appear on mucous membranes in chronic catarrh, often in the form of polypoid excrescences (especially on the conjunctiva, the lining of the urinary and sexual organs, and in the mammellonee condition of the stomach), depend upon the formation of new vessels in the form gramilation-slioots, which push before thenithe exuberant epithelium. In the substance of organs, also, inflammation, especially chronicj is accompanied by new growths of vessels. In tissues originally non-vas- cular, as the cornea, these have an essentially reparative character, pro- tecting it from purulent disintegration. The new vessels formed in in- flammation of the lens proceed directly from the retinal vessels, on the type of the granulation-shoois. There are formed also in the QyQ new v(!ssels from those of the iris and ciliary processes, which, growing over the anterior and posterior surfaces of the capsule, occasion a vascularity of them which has been rightly described as periphakitis. The vascu- larization of cartilage in inflamed joints takes place from without on the same type ; but vessels are formed also by expansions of tlio meshes of connective tissue which occupy the interspaces of the carti- lage. In respect to the vascular tissues, the formation of new vessels is well shown in the caries of bone. By enlargement of the cavities in v^hich the bone-cells lie imliedded there arise larger spaces, which afterwards unite and arc converted into lobulated and expanding canalicuH. These are entirely filled with granulations, the vessels of which, richly furnished with nuclei, put forth knobs or buds, at first solid, afterwards filled with blood. Similar processes occur iu inflamed muscles and glands ; but the formation of vessels takes place less freely in acute inflammation, the rapid production of cells exerting a kind of counter-pressure, which restrains it. In hetero-plastic tumours new vessels are formed in a similai* way ; in some cases of very soft sarcoma the type which Weber calls that of vascular ccll-forination obtains. In a tumour of the breast Wagner observed in the cells which sur- rounded the new-formed vessels, instead of nuclei, pale-red corpuscles — I or more, up to 5—which were indistinguishable from blood-corpuscles. It seemed as though the nucleus had changed into a blood-globule, andHEPOKT ON I'UYSIOLOOy. by division had given rise to more. Ho is therefore disposed to adopt BiUroth'rt view, that there may he a development of blood-globules in eells, and an emptying of the same into the vessels. The part which the walls of the vessels take in the produetion of new formations is a very extended one. The nuclei of the vessels, especially of the capillaries, form an important source of new elements in them all, inasmuch as they first enlarge, and then, by repeated division, procreate a brood of fresh nuclei. These latter surround themselves with protoj)lasma and with a membrane, and assume various forms and sizes, according to the character of the new formation. This process may be traced in all inflamed tissues, most readily in bones, where the capillary nuclei increase, so that the capillaries are entirely covered with spindle- formed nuclei, and become like granulation-vessels. If these nuclei go on merely to the form.ation of connective tissue there arise spongy granu- lations, which, in certain non-suppurative joint affections, grow out from the bones, and by their tension cause great pain. If these nuclei in part turn to pus there is the common form of purulent caries. The case is similar in inflammation of other parts. This produetion of nuclei is sometimes so abundant in the brain and spinal cord as to simulate sarcoma. It is a great element in the formation of tubercle. The small granules of tubercular meningitis arise from the growth of the nuclei of the small vessels, as also do the tubercles of mucous and serous mem- branes and of joints. In the lungs and kidneys the nuclei of the con- nective tissue and the epithelium also contribute to the formation of tubercle. The characteristic forms of many tumours, alike benign and malignant, is due to their origin from the nuclei of the vessels. In regard to the retrograde metamorphosis of vessels, the nuclei ahke in softening, in inflammation, and in rapidly growing tumours, tend to become fatty. Hence the tendency to bleeding in sarcoma. In healing, also, the vessels becoiiie obliterated, partly from pressure, partly from diminished afflux. Thus scars have fewer vessels, and the same is the case with the internal "scars" of inflammation. The framework of a cancer is like a scar-tissue ; the obliterated vessels resemble connective tissue. .('Virehow's Arch.,' vol. 29, 1864, p. 84.) IV. EESPIEATION. Change produced in the Blood hy Oxygen.—Prof. Stokes has made an important contribution to the theory of respiration. His attention having been called to Hoppe's paper on the spectrum given by a dilute solution of blood, he sought to ascertain whether he could imitate the change of colour of arterial into that of venous blood, on the supposition that it arises from reduction. The most suitable reducing agent was found to be a solution of protosulphate of iron in tartaric acid, rendered alkaline by ammonia or carbonate of soda, but other alkaline solutions had the same effect. From his experiments lie found that the colouring matter of blood, like indigo, is capable of existing in two states of oxidation, distinguish- able by a diflerenee of colour and a fundamental difference of action on the spectrum. It may be made to pass from the more to the less oxidized state by the action of suitable reducing agents, and recovers its oxygenRESPIEATION. free 0. As the scarlet cruorine is gradually reduced, oxidizing thereby a 16 by absorption from the air. Tlie name litematin being appropriated to the product of the decomposition of the colouring matter, Prof. Stokes pro- poses to call the unaltered substance cruorine, and terms its two forms scarlet criiorme and purple cruorine respectively. _ The change of colour from arterial to venous blood, as far as it goes, is in the direction of the change from scarlet to purple cruorine ; and since scarlet cruorine, even in the cold, is capable of reduction by sub.stanees present in the blood, and the action of reducing agents upon it is greatly assisted by warmth, vye have every reason to believe that a portion of the cruorine present in venous blood exists in the state of purple cruorine, and is reoxidized iu passing through the lungs. Carbonic acid acts on iha blood as if it were a reducing agent. The change of colour produced by it is not a strict eflect of its presence, but is a consequence of the removal of oxygen. (Magnus removed as much as lo or 12 per cent, by volume of 0 from arterialized blood by shaking it with CO.^.) There is this difference between COg and the real reducing agents—that the former no longer acts on a dilute and comparatively pure solution of cruorine, while the latter act just as before. The brightened colour of the blood on the addition of salts and the darkening on the addition of water are due, not to altered form of the corpuscles, but to altered refractive power, leading to an in- creased or diminished reflection of light at their surface. Connecting his observations with A. Schmidt's statements respecting the presence of ozone in the blood ('XJeber Ozon im Blute,' Dorpat, 1862), Stokes observes that there is no proof of ozone, properly so called, being contained in blood, for all attempts to obtain from it an oxidizing gas have failed. But Schmidt has entirely proved the pi'esence in the blood of a substance capable of producing certain oxidizing effects, and this substance is connected with the colouring matter. In cruorine we have a substance admitting of easy oxidation and reduction ; and connecting this with Schmidt's results, we may infer that scarlet cruorine is not merely a greedy absorber and a carrier of oxygen, but also an oxidizing agent, and that it is by its means that the substances which enter the blood from the food, setting aside those which are either assimilated or excreted by the kidneys, are reduced to the ultimate forms of CO2 and water, as if they had been burnt in .0. An experiment made by Stokes offei's a remarkable parallel to the physio- logical process. When an alkaline tartaric solution of the protoxide of tin is added in moderate quantity to a solution of scarlet cruorine the latter is presently reduced. If the solution is now shaken with air the cruorine is almost instantly oxidized, as is shown by the colour of the solution and its spectrum by transmitted light. On standing for a little time, a couple of minutes or so, the cruorine is again reduced, and the solution may be made to go through these changes a great number of times, though, of course, not indefinitely, as the tin in time becomes com- l)letcly oxidized. It thus appears that purple cruorine absoi'bs_/ree oxygen with much greater avidity than the tin solution, notwithstanding that the oxidized cruorine is itself reduced by the tin salt. Thus, probably, the purple cruorine of the veins is oxidized during the time, brief thou"-h it may be, during which it is exposed to the air iu the lungs, while tlie sub- stances derived i'rom the Ibod may have little disposition to combine withlUCPORT ON PIIYSIOLOOy. IG portion of the tin salt, so part of tlie scarlet cruorine is gradually reduced in the course of the circulation, oxidizing a portion of the substances derived from the food or of tlio tissues. The |inr])lis]i colour now assumed by the solution illustrates the tinge of venous blood, and a fresh shake represents a fresli passage through tlie lungs. ("On the lleduction and O.xidation of the Colouring Matter of the Blood," ' Proc. lloy. Soc.,' 181^4, P- 355-). Relation of the movements of Respiralion to the Vanus Nerve.— Dr. Rosenthal comes to the following conclusions:—fi) All the muscles of inspiration may be reflexly excited by the vagus alike to an increased number of contractions or to a state of tetanic spasm. (2) The intensity and duration of this tetanus may vary within wide limits—the more in- tense it is the sooner it passes, and conversely. (3) All the muscles of inspiration are not excited with equal ease, but they stand in the follow- ing order, which is the same as that given by Traube for spontaneously increasing dyspnoea, viz., diaphragm, internal intercostals, intercartila- ginei, levatores costarum breves, sealeni, serratus posticus. (4) The more any members of this scale are already in action through previously existing causes of dyspnoea the more easily are they reflexly influenced through the vagus. (5) It seldom happens that an entirely inactive muscle of this scale is brougiit into action by irritation of the vagus ; if it be so the action is weak and brief. (6) If the demand for breath be entirely put aside, so that all the movements of j-espiration cease, they cannot be brought on again by irritation of the vagus. (7) Tlie muscles of expiration cannot be reflexly excited through the vagus; on the con- trary, their existing rhythmical contractions are relaxed during the irri- tation. (8) After section of both vagi the normal respiratory movements may be restored by artificial irritation of the central portions, but by stronger irritation all the phenomena may be produced which occur when one vagus is irritated, the other being left untouched. The final results are thus summed up :—The action of the medulla oblongata is determined only by the oxygen of the blood. The excitement of the vagi cannot increase this action ; it only effects a change in the muscular motions brought into play, in consequence of which the respiratory motions become more rapid, but also weaker :—The extreme limit of this influence is a continued contraction, the intensity and duration of which are deter- mined by the amount of the irritation." (' The Movements of Respiration, and their relation to the Vagus Nerve,' Berlin, 1862 ; and ' Vierteljahrsch. fiir der prakt. Heilk.,' B. 3, p. 108.) Interchange of Gases in the Lungs.—Dr. N. Grrehaut has studied the phenomena of respiration by causing measured quantities of hydrogen to be inhaled, and examining the gases expired. By this means the volume of air contained in the lungs can be ascertained, since by repeated respi- rations a complete intermixture of this air and the hydrogen is effected, and an analysis of the mixture enables us to calculate the total. The volume of the lungs, as thus deduced, after expiration, in men between 17 and 35, varies from rig to 3-22 litres (i to 2-8 quarts). When a pint of air is inspired, about a third is returned to the atmo- sphere with two tliirds of vitiated air, and two thirds of jiure air are dis- tributed uniformly through the bronchi. Dividing the volume of airIIESPIRATION. 17 introduced into the lungs by tlie number which measures their capacity, o-ives the " coefficient of ventilation." This is proportional to the depth of the inspiration ; it increases or diminishes as the volume of the lungs diminishes or increases, if the respiration remains constant. Gases mixed with the air inspired penetrate, like it, to the extremities of the bronchi. The volume of an ordinary inspiration, the respiration preserving its ordinary rhythm, is a little more than half a litre (about i pint). The expired air, at a temperature of 20° (36° Pahr.), is saturated with vapour ■ifc 3 j° (63° Fahr.). The weight of water exhaled in 24 hours amounts, both by experiment and by calculation, to 5^7 grammes (18 oz.); but from this must be deducted the vapour contained in the air inspired. (" Phy- sical Eesearches on Respiration;" ' Journ. de TAnat. et Phys.,' 1864, No. 5, p. 523.) Pidmonary Lesions produced by section of the Piieumogastric Nerves.— 11. Roddaert has traced the various changes observed in the lungs after section of the pneumogastrics to their causes, and finds that they are attributable to interference with the functions of distinct organs, and to a great extent secondary rather than direct. His conclusions are—(i) In mammalia section of the pneumogastrics in the cer- vical region produces upon the respiratory apparatus diverse effects, of which some are referable to paralysis of the inferior laryngeal nerves, others to paralysis of the pulmonary branches. (2) To these two classes of effects correspond two classes of pulmonary lesions; the inflammatory phenomena observed in some species of animals, in certain conditions, are due to the penetration of foreign bodies into the air-passages, consequent on paralysis of the larynx; the emphysema, the hyperemia, and their consequences, are due to the amplitude and the rarity of the inspirations, consequent on paralysis of the pulmonary branches. (3) As a secondary cause of the former series of changes, must be mentioned paralysis of the oesophagus; as secbndary causes of the second series of lesions, the modi- fication of the heart's action and the coagula formed in the divisions of the pulmonary artery. (4) Section of one pneumogastric has no influence on the anatomical state of the lungs, or causes only insignificant lesions, because it does not give rise to these physiological disturbances. (5). Section of the loth pair in birds is not followed by pulmonary changes, because, of the two causes mentioned, the first is absent, and the second exerts its influence over organs differently constituted, on which it does not produce the same effects. ('Journ. de la Phys.,' Nos. 19 and 20.) Cause of the Respiratory Murmur.—Dr. Boudet (' Gaz. Hebdom.,' 10, 49—52, 1863) narrates experiments, chiefly on horses, made with a view of determining the cause of the normal respiratory murmur. His conclu- sions are that the sound arises from a sonorous wave occasioned by the passage of air from a narrow passage into a wider one. It divides itself into two elements—one arising from the various narrowings of the larynx and palate; the other, arising at the points of opening of the smallest bronchial tubes into the cells (vesicular murmur) ; the expiratory murmur is due solely to tiie resonance of the laryngeal sound, and to the passa^^e of the air from the smaller to the larger bronchi. That the murmur cannot be due, as Skoda thought, to the friction of the air, is shown by the entire disappearance of the vesicular murm ur after section of the 218 EBPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. pneumogasfcrics ; the effect of which operation is to cause the air to enter the lungs much more abundantly and forcibly. (' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 122, 1864, p. 27.) V. FUNCTIONS or THE SKIN. Villemin's conclusions, drawn from two prolonged series of experi- ments upon cutaneous absorption, by means of simple and mineral baths, are the following:—The fact of the absorption of water is put beyond doubt by exact determinations of weight, which show that after a tepid bath of from 30 to 41; minutes the weight of the body for the most part remains stationary; in about a third of the cases it undergoes a slight diminution, generally much less than that which occurs during the same time in the air. Absolute increase of weight after a bath is still more rare and slight. Chemical analysis shows that in a tepid bath the cuta- neous exhalation still continues. The absorption of water does not seem to be affected either by the composition or by the density of the liquid employed. It varies chiefly with the physiological conditions. The absorp- tion of iodide of potassium is demonstrated by the analysis of the urine when as much as 1500 grains have been dissolved in the bath ; with 450 grains no iodine is found in the urine. After a simple bath the urine, even though previously acid, generally becomes alkaline; after an alkaline bath it mostly retains an acid reaction. After a simple or mineral bath the density of the urine is almost always diminished. (' New Experimental Researches on Cutaneous Absorption;' ' Archiv. g6n. de M^d.,' May, 1864, p. 513.) TI. DIGESTION AND SECBETION. The intestinal Mucous Memlrane.—D. W. Donitz has re-examined the structure of the mucous membrane of the intestinal canal, with the view of casting further light upon the mode in which the absorption of fat takes place in the villi. His results are chiefly negative; they tend to show that—(i) The epithelial cells of the intestinal mucous membrane are closed on all sides by a membrane, and are for the most part regular six- sided prisms, which contain about their centre a nucleus with nuclear corpuscles. (2) The so-called basal seam is a secretion of the cells, not always present, and its decomposition is indicated by a transverse striatiou. This striation has been sometimes taken for pores, sometimes for rods. (3) The epithelium is separated from the parenchyma of the villi by a vitreous membrane exhibiting no pores (the limiting lamella). (4) The smooth muscular fibres run parallel to the long axis of the villi. Trans- verse or oblique fibres do not exist. (5) Nor are there any anastomosing connective-tissue-corpuscles. (6) Large fat-globules are foi-med in the parenchyma and cells of the villi only by means of mechanical force, and arise from particles of fat, which are extremely fine, so that they are not singly visible. These particles penetrate the parenchyma to the central space in some unknown manner, but not through pre-existing paths. (7") An independent wall of the central chyle-vessel, though on other grounds probable, cannot be demonstrated, ('Keichert und Du Bois Eeymond's Archiv,' 1864, Nos. 3 and 4.)19 DIGESTION AND SECRETION. JVew albuminoid substance in Millc—MM. Millon and Commaille, after removing from milk the casein by acetic acid and the albumen by- heat, find that there is precipitated by a solution of nitrate of mercury a proteine compound of distinct properties, for which they propose the name of lacto-proteine. Its composition is C36, H31, N5, 0,g, which corresponds to an oxide of proteine united with ammonia. Cow's miJk contams of it, on an average, about 15 grains per pint; woman's about 20 grains. The authors state that in the quantitative separation of albuminoid bodies, washing with water, alcohol, and ether, successively, presents great advan- tages. ('Comptes Rend.,'vol. 59, p. 303.) Digestion of albiminoid substances hy the Pancreas.—L. Corvisart reports some experiments made with the pancreas of a healthy man who died after a fall, having been chloroformed. Three hours before death he had drunk 200 grammes (about 6\ oz.) of milk. The weather was very cold. An infusion of the pancreas was made in 13 oz. of cold water. Some of this was divided into 3 portions, of which one was rendered alkaline and a second acid, the third remaining neutral. All the 3 fluids, when digested at a temperature of 104° Fahr. with various foods, exhibited similar results, freely dissolving fibrin and albumen. A porticAa of raw fibrin was digested in half an hour, and entirely dissolved in an hour. The whole infusion sufiiced to digest albumen equivalent to 6 eggs and more than double that quantity of fibrin; altogether an amount equal to half the rations of a French cavalry soldier. (" On an Active and Mis- understood Function of the Pancreas in Man ;" ' Bull, de I'Acad. Imp. de Med.,? 29, No. 16, p. 687.) Functions of the Portal Vein. (Dr. Ore, Bordeaux, 1861 ; ' Journ. de I'Anat. et Phys.,' 1864, No. 5, p. 556.).—Though published in 1861, the new results at which Dr. Ore has arrived have not before been re- ported. M. Robin pi*efixes to his analysis a brief account of the liver, as consisting of two distinct portions, a larger glycogenic and a smaller biliary organ, the constituents of which lie side by side without commu- nicating. The ducts and gall-bladder are proportioned, not to the size of the liver as a whole, but to that of the proper biliary organ, to which they l)car about the same relation as e.g. the ureters and bladder bear to the kidneys. Dr. Ore's views are opposed to those usually entertained hitherto, and supported by M. Simon's experiments on pigeons, which represent the portal vein as the source of the biliary secretion. He found that in dogs and rabbits, when the circulation in the portal vein was suddenly interrupted, death followed within an hour; when, however, the vein was carefully exposed, and a thread passed round it without being tied, the vein became gradually obliterated, and the animals re- covered perfectly. In a dog thus treated and killed on the 20th day the liver was found considerably diminished in volume, and of a very marked pale-yellow colour. The portal vein was converted into a hard, whitish, fibrous cord. The gall-bladder was gorged with bile, which had also passed freely into the intestines. In another case, after occlusion of the vein for 34 days, the liver contained sugar. Numerous other experi- ments gave similar results. Dr. Ore's conclusions are—(i) The portal vein may be obliterated without danger to life, and then the albuminose and glucose which it normally absorbs find entrance into the system by20 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. ofclior channels. (2) In spite of the obliteration, and although no other vessel replaces it, the biliary secretion continues. This secretion, therefore, like all the others, draws its material from the arterial blood. (3) The secretion of sugar persists in spite of complete portal obliteration ; this substance is, therefore, as C. Bernard holds, a proper secretion of the liver, and completel^^ independent of the food. (4) Experiment shows that the hepatic sugar proceeds from albuminoid substances; during abstinence, therefore, it is formed at the expense of the albuminous sub- stances of the Mood. (<;) Since the secretion continues in spite of obli- teration of the portal vein, are we not led to conclude that in this case it is tlie blood of the hepatic artery which furnishes to the liver the materials of this secretion ? (6) Lastly, the decoloration, the atroph}', and the changes in the textures of the liver which supervene on oblitera- tion of the portal vein, seem to prove that it is the principal nutritive vessel of the liver, while the artery serves almost exclusively for its secretions. Pathology eonfirms Dr. Ore's views in respect to the secretion of bile. Ill not one of 34 eases of obliteration of the portal vein in man, collected by M. Gintrac, of Bordeaux, in 1856, was the biliary secretion inter- rupted. Effect of Alkalies on the secretion of Bile.—H. Nasse observed in dogs that the carbonate of soda greatly diminished the secretion of bile. A dog of about 2 5 pounds' weight with a biliary fistula received twice a day i-] pound of potatoes, a diet on which he did not lose weight. The bile was scantier than on a meat diet; on 2 days 113 and ioi"6 grms. (4 and 3 6 oz.) were secreted. There were then added to the food for 3 days 4 grm. (61'7 grains) crystals [z= 22'6 grains anhydrous] of carbonate of soda, and the secretion of bile was only 54*5, 46'!, and 35'8 gnu. (from I'8 to i'2 0z.). The diminution continued for 3 days after the soda was discontinued, and it reappeared when the soda was again ad- ministered. In a previous experiment it was noticed that the diminution affected the solid portions of the bile, and especially the biliary salts, more than the water. Nasse also found, after taking 8 grm. (123 grains) of carbonate of soda that the following night's urine was very rich in hippuric acid. ('Arch, fur Wissenschaftliche Heilkunde,' 6, p. 508.^ Constituents of Bile.—T. Antisell reports ('Amer. Journ. of Med. Sciences,' Jan., 1864, p. 91) some examinations of the bile made by means of dialysis. The distended gall-bladders of patients who had died from chronic diarrhoea were suspended consecutively in alcohol fSi per cent.), ether, chloroform, and coal oil, for periods of from 24 to 48 hours. By this means all the component principles of the supernatant bile are separated except epithelium, granular and mucous corpuscles. Admitting that the bile is taken from diseased persons, he observes that his object is rather to show what is actually found in human bile rather than to describe the characters of the normal fluid. His conclusions are—(i) The organized matters of the bile are derived from the hepatic cells-—chiefly its inner granular matter—and from the epithelium lining the bile-duct. (2) The fats of the bile are the fats of the bile-cell, and have sufl'ered no alteration except their escape from inside the cell. (3) The bile contains two distinct colouring matters—the yellow and the brown—both of cellularDIGESTION AND SECHETION. 21 origin, and the latter only in a state of decaj'. (4) The yellow colouring matter is an organized body—a cell containing cloudy granular contents, which furnish fatty matter by decomposition ; the fatty acids being the margaric and glycocholic associated with cholesterine and soda. These yellow corpuscles are the yellow corpuscles of the bile-cell. (5) The brown colouring matter is an albuminous substance undergoing decom- position, and is probably the remains of the wall of the hepatic cell whose contents constitute the yellow colouring matter. It is this brown matter which by treatment with NO5 yields the play of colours used as a test for bile. (6) The bile contains both the materials removed from the portal blood and the anatomical structures by which the removal was effected; the latter in a stage of retrogressive metamorphosis. (7) The bile is an excretion—a depuration of the liver directly, of the blood remotely. Biliary Acids in Icterus.—H. Huppert ('Arch, der Heilk.,' ^, p. 236, 1864) and E. Bischoff ('Henle und Pfeufer's Zeitsch.,' 21, p. 125, 1864) have endeavoured to determine experimentally the course of the bile-acids in icterus, and agree in the result that only a small portion of them is excreted by the kidneys, the greater part being, as in health, decomposed in the blood. Huppert injected from 25 to 50 grains of the glycocholate of soda into the jugular vein of the dog and the rabbit, and on draw- ing blood in from 5 to 9 hours (after the temperature and pulse had re- covered from the consequent depression) discovered in it scarcely a trace of the acid, while the urine secreted during the same time did not contain 2 grains. In other cases which gave similar results, the secretion of the liver was examined at the same time by means of an hepatic fistula : after the injection of the clycocholate of soda there was a slight increase in its secretion by the liver, but this increase did not last more than an hour nor did the quantity exceed a fourth or a sixth of the amount in- jected. By the liver and the kidney together not more than a third or a fourth of the injected acid was excreted, though none remained in the blood. That it had been decomposed rather than exuded into the tissues may be inferred from the fact that in jaundice, in spite of the continued absorption and the scanty excretion, the pulse maintains a considerable frequency. Bischoff could not detect any biliary acids in the blood, muscle, brain, or cerebro-spinal fluid, of a man who died jaundiced from cancer. On examining the urine in jaundice, Bischoff found in one case 5 grains of choloidic acid per diem, and in another -I gr. Lessen found gr. The largest of these quantities is less than -^Lth part of the probable daily secretion as estimated by Bischoff and Voit, and Eanke. In health the faeces contain of biliary acids at least 8 grammes (123 grains) less than the amount secreted ; which quantity, therefore, is burnt in the blood. And since there is no reason to suppose their oxidation diminished in jaundice, their presence in the urine being simply the result of their absence from the faeces, it is probable that the formation of them in that disease is not less than in health. Hippwic Acid in Urine,—Mattschersky administered kinic, cinnamic, and benzoic acid to dogs, and found that, except in one instance with benzoic acid, hippuric acid was excreted in their urine, although it normally contains none. (' Virchow's Archiv,' 1863, ^, p. 33^-)REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 22 Influence of Bejlcx Action on Secretion.—IJernard, 'Journ. de I'Anat. et Phys.,' 1864, p. 507.)—EeQex actions are of two kinds- producing on the one hand the contraction, on the other the relaxation, of a muscle. E.Kamples of the latter are arrest of the heart in the state of diastole hy irritation of the skin, and the stoppage of the respiration by- excitation of the superior laryngeal nerve, as shown by Rosenthal. (This latter fact explains what M. Bernard had found long ago, that when the throat of an animal is compressed its respiration ceases, even although an opening is made in the trachea.) These paralysing reflex actions seem to explain the mechanism, heretofore obscure, of reflex secretion. By stimu- lating the lingual nerve, as by vinegar on the tongue, secretion is excited, through the chorda tympani, in the submaxillary gland, the circulation in it becoming, at the same time, much more abundant, and the venous scarce distinguishable, either in appearance or in amount of 0, from the arterial blood. There is here a paralysis of the vessels of the gland effected by a paralysing influence exerted on the sympathetic nerve, which normally keeps the vessels in a state of tonic contraction. If all the nerves of the gland are destro3'ed, a continuous state of secretion sets in (after 2 or 3 days, to allow of the degeneration of the nervous filaments contained in the substance of the gland), the gland at the same time diminishing in size, and undergoing considerable changes in its structure; at the end of 5 or 6 weeks, in a dog of average strength, the secretion entirely ceases; then the gland gradually recovers its normal state, the nerves being regenerated. Further demonstration that the phenomena are due to the suppression of the nerve is given by poisoning the gland with curare, -which acts only on the motor nerves. By injecting a few drops into the supplying artery, and opening the vein to allow its escape and avert any general effect from the poison, a state of continuous secre- tion is excited, due to the paralysis of the vessels. The effect may be several times repeated. Injections of water or of irritating fluids have no influence on the secretion. As a contribution to the study of Impairecl Digestion, Dr. 0. Schultze reports 2 cases in which the products of fermentation were found in the vomited matter in cases of ulceration of the stomach from poisoning by dilute sulphuric acid. The first case was a maid-servant, a^t. 20, who ultimately died of inanition, with contraction of the pylorus and hyperemia of the mucous membrane, no large quantity of mucus being present. Tlie vomit presented, besides starch-corpuscles, blood-globules, and epitheleum-cells, numerous yeast and other sporules ; no sarcina. On analysis there were found dextrin, grape sugar, and a small quantity of alcohol, with a smell of fusel oil, removed b}' charcoal. Acetic acid was present, and traces of the volatile fatty acids, but neither butyric nor formic acid. Lactic acid existed in considerable quantity, and probably succinic acid and glycerine. The patient took nothing but coffee in the morning, bouillon with rice at noon, and gruel at night; no alcohol. In another case there were sarcina, yeast-cells and vibrios in the vomit, and on distillation alcohol and acetic and butyric acid were given off. Schultze remarks that the volatile fatty acids arc, in all probability, derived, not from the fat, but from the starch of the food, since all the intermediate stages, dextrin, sugar, and alcohol, are present, and theMTISCULAB SYSTEM. 23 neutral fats are very stable bodies. The COg present also was in pretty- exact relation with the amount of these volatile ncids. More alcohol was present in the case in which butyric acid was absent. ('Eeichert und Du B. Reymond's Arch.,' No. 4, 1864, p. 491.) VII. MTTSOULAR SYSTEM. Chemical conditions of the fatigue of Muscles.—Eanke has carried further his investigations on this point, made by injecting into the muscles of the frog various products of muscular action (see ' Year-Book,' 1863). In his former experiments he found that the muscular juice and lactic acid suspended by their presence the muscular power, which was restored by washing them away by a solution of common salt. He now states that it is to kreatin and lactic acid that the muscular juice owes its effect. Hippuric acid has no influence, or scarcely any, upon the peripheral muscles, but it transiently suspends the action of the heart, as Ranke thinks by its local action, showing a special relation of that substance to the cardiac muscular fibre. All the other substances experimented with had the same efiect^upon the heart as upon the other muecles. Gl^^cocho- late of soda and the salts of potash act somewhat differently from kreatin and lactic acid, and much more powerfully. Their efTect is like that of COj, and is mthev paralysing than fatiguing. They rapidly produce a change in the structure of the muscle, while the effect of the fatigue-in- ducing substances ceases on their removal. Ki'eatinine acts like the last- named substances (paralysing) but much less powerfully. Of all the salts or products of decomposition normally met with in the organism, that Eanke has examined, two only have no effect on the tissues. These are uric acid and grape sugar. The former is ineffective, probably on account of its slight solubility, but the latter is so even in a concentrated form. Sugar acts precisely like a 7 per cent, solution of chloride of sodium, and in many cases is even more suitable for use as an indifferent fluid. The excitability of the nervous trunks is increased (as in natural fatigue) by the properly fatigue-producing substances, viz., lactic acid and kreatin. Carbonic acid and the soda salts of the bile acids diminish or destroy it. Kreatinin, uric acid, urate of soda, urea, hippuric acid, and the salts of potash, have no effect on the peripheral nerves. Eanke's at- tention was especially drawn to the action of the urea. This substance leaves unaffected the irritability and the power of the muscles, the respiration and the action of the heart, but annihilates the spontaneous and reflex actions. Its influence, therefore, seems to be exerted upon the oi'gan of the will and upon the centre of control for the reflex excitability. By dividing the nervous centres at various parts Eanke came to the con- clusion that the part of tlie brain on which urea acts is situated between the middle of the cerebrum and the middle of the corpora quadrigemina, to which region Setschcnow assigns the "controlling organ of reflex e.x- citability " discovered by him (see 'Year-Book,' 18(53). This centre is excited by urea in such a way that a paralysis of the entire periplieral reflex apparatus is induced, lasting even after removal of the brain and section of the cord. At the samo time the cord and nerves are excitableUEPOllT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 34 by direct irritation. Besides urea, hippuric acid, gljcocholate of soda, and the salts of iiotasli, suspend the rellex function. Tlie two latter alone paralyse the reilex nieclianism ; but hippuric acid, though it leaves itsenertty unim- paired, puts to rest any previously existing excitement. lianke "remarks that in tracing tlio effects of various fluids upon the different tissues by the method he has adopted, it is shown tiiat tiie effects of the same fluid differ for diflerent cells—may bo stimulating for one, depressing for another, or, as in the case of kreatin and lactic acid, may increase action in smaller quantities and diminish it in larger. It is shown also that substances hitherto regarded merely as excreta exert a powerful influence in the economy; the particles of the muscular tissue, immediately after their own activity, may become by their decay the exciters or controllers of succeeding action. ('Eeichert und Du B. Reymond's Archiv,' No. 3, 1864.) Chanc/es in Muscle during action.—Dr. Sarokow states that in the frog kreatinin is present in muscles with an alkaline as well as in those witii an acid reaction though to a greater extent in the latter. The quantity of kreatin in the muscles when at rest is almost twice that of the kreatinin. During exertion the kreatin is converted into kreatinin. There is also an absolute increase of kreatin. (' Virchow's Archiv,' B. 2, 1863, p. .544-) C. Neubauer, on the other hand, from experiments on tlie flesh of the ox, pig, calf, and sheep, arrives at the conclusion that no kreatinin is naturally contained in the juice of muscle, but that when it is found there it results entirely from the conversion of kreatin by taking up water. In fact, when kreatin is exposed in a closed glass tube containing water for 2 or 3 days to the temperature of a water bath, the fluid becomes alkaline, and very little kreatin is deposited on crystallizing. The mother-liquor treated with chloride of zinc gives beautiful crystals of that salt in its combination with kreatinin. Of kreatin Neubauer found in beef '230 per cent., in pork -171, in veal 'iSa, and in mutton, -184. ('Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 1864, vol. i, p. 274.) VIII. METAMOEPnOSIS OF KA.TTEE. On tie influence of tie consumption of a large amount of Fluid on Ohesifg.—M. Daucel (' Comptes. Bend.,' vol. 58, 1864, p. 1149), in inves- tigating how to reduce extreme obesity, remarked that the absence of fat and fat-forming elements from the food did not produce emaciation if much liquid was taken. He was thus led to think that water and watery substances favoured obesity. Some l^xcts he has observed in the feeding of animals confirm this view. A lean cavalry horse was made the subject of the following experiment by M. Decroix. Its rations were diminished by 3lbs. of oats, without change in the amount of straw and hay. Water was "kept constantly accessible, and about i lb. of bran was mingled with it daily. In 27 days the horse had gained nearly 38 lbs. in weight, in spite of the change of 3 lbs. of oats for one of bran. In the same regiment there was a veiy fat mare, which sweated much on moderate exertion, and, like fat men, had unusually liquid evacuations. It drank much, nearly 60 quarts a day. The quantity of liquid was reduced toSrETAMOEPlIOSIS OF MATTER, 25 quarts, and the mare soon lost its obesity, and became vigorous and Beiation of Food and Excretion.—Vetienkokr mi Yoit have given a farther extension to their researches on nutrition, using the same dog on which their former experiments were made. Having lived on mixed diet for more than 3 months, he was fed for 2^ days on 48-4 oz. of pure flesh; the ist, 5th, 9th, 13th, and i8th days were passed in tlie respiration apparatus. After the second day an equilibrium was maintained between the nitrogen consumed in the flesh and that excreted in the urine and feces. In 10 consecutive days the dog excreted an average of 1674 grs. urea, which, according to Voit's former experiments, represents all the nitrogen of the urine. The total solid content of the urine was 2360 grs., of which 253 were salts ; thus, there existed in it, besides the urea, 433 grs. of organic substance, which consisted of 149 grs. carbon, 38 grs. hydrogen, and 248 grs. oxygen. On one day the dog produced, further, 171 grs. dried faces, consisting of 77 grs. C, 11 grs. H, 11 grs. N, 23 grs. O, and 51 grs. salts. To these excreta the respiration has to be added. On the other hand, the dog consumed daily in the flesh 1364 grs. C, 2362 grs. H, 891 gra. N, 16,883 grs. O, and 282 grs. salts. He con- sumed also 7395 grs. 0 from the air. From these data results the following equation : Consiimplion. Excretion. Carbon' 187-8 i8o'o gramtnes. Hydrogen i52"S iS7'3 .. Nitrogen 5^'° Si'i >• Oxygen 1566-4 1599-7 Salts 19-5 19'7 » Total .... i977'2 2011-8 Difference, 34-6 grammes, or 536*3 grains. This difference, amounting to less than i per cent., resolves itself almost entirely into a loss of water; that is, of hydrogen and oxygen, in the proportion of 4-8 H to 33-4 O. A further proof of the accuracy of the method was given by the fact that the direct determination of the inspired O agreed withiu 20 grains with that given by the calculation of ingesta and excreta. According to these results, the dog accomplished its entire metamor- phosis of matter within 24 hours exclusively from the food consumed; and, with tlie exception of a very small quantity of water, no constituents of its body were employed in it. Only on a flesh diet is it possible (in the dog) to establish a condition in which the sum of the elements of the effete parts of the body (solid and liquid) is equal to the sum of the elements of its food (flesh and oxygen), the other elements of the body wliich have a diff'erent composition from the food taking no part in the metam.orphosis. To account for the deficiency of 3-8 grammes (59 grains) of carbon in the excreta as compared with the ingesta, Pettenkofer and Voit think it probable that a small formation of fat takes place from the flesh (78 grains a day). If all the nitrogen of flesh is subtracted in the form of urea,20 EEPOUT ON PHYSIOLOGY. the elements which remain give nearly the formula of fat, and if 4-5 per cent, of the carbon, with a proportionate amount of the oxygen, are excreted as CO2, a body with the composition of fat remains. No nitrogen, these new researches also prove, is absorbed from the air or given oft' into it. ('Ann. d. Chem. u. Pharm.,' Suppl., Band. 2, p. 361.) Formation of Fat from Casein.—As confirmatory of this latter view, Ch. Blondeau has given proof, which seems satisfactory, of the conversion of casein into fat in the case of Roquefort cheese. During 2 months in which it was kept in a cellar the proportion of casein diminished from 85-4 to 42-3 per cent., and that of the fiit increased from I'S to 32-3. The fat was submitted to every test; it consisted of i6-8 margarin and 1*5 olein. The change is accompanied by the growth of a penicillium, without which it does not take place. On analysing the growth its com- position in respect to carbon and nitrogen is such as to correspond with a complementary formation of margarin from the caseine, viz. C 61*5, N 22"6, H 7* 5. Or supposing that from the casein (C^g, II.^, N,,, Og) the penicillium takes all the N, and as much hydrogen as would sufiice to form ammonia, there remains the formula C^, H]g, 0^, which comes near to that of fat. ('Ann. de Chem. et Phvs.,' Feb., 1864, p. 208.) On the influence of Glauber's Salt on the Metamorphosis of Matter.— J. Seegnen starts from the position of Pettenkofer and Voit, that all the nitrogen consumed is excreted in the faeces and the urine; i. e. that if the animal remains of the same weight all the nitrogen which enters the circulation reappears in the urine. Hence, conversely, while the food remains the same an inference may be drawn from the amount of nitrogen in the urine respecting the metamorphosis in the organism, and the effect of any added substance securely determined. By feeding dogs on a uniform diet, and carefully determining the loss or gain of weight and the nitrogen contents of the urine and fsaces, Seegnen comes to the conclusion—(i) That Glauber's salt has scarcely any influence on the absorption of the food. (2) That during the use of Glauber's salt the decomposition of the nitrogenous elements of the tissues is essentially retarded, or the body becomes richer in nitrogenous substance. (3) That the waste of fiit is increased. The animal may either gain or lose in total weight. The dose employed was from 15 to 45 grains daily. Seegnen believes that the similar effect which he has obtained from the Karlsbad water is due to the Glauber's salt, which is its chief ingredient. (' Virchow's Archiv,' 29, p. 558.) Changes in the Composition of the Blood induced hi/ Inanition.—Dr. P. L. Panum, from experiments on dogs, concludes that no essential or considerable change occurs during inanition, either in the pro])ortion of the blood to the body generally or in the proportion of the fibrin and corpuscles to each other (in this opposing Bidder and Schmidt). The total quantity, however, diminishes. Even when water is allowed ad lihitum the normal proportions of the chief blood-constituents is main- tained. It thus appears that the materials destined for the nutrition of the tissue, as well as ox3'gen and the resulting carbonic acid and urea, only transiently form constituents of the blood. Accordingly, with de- ficient su))ply of food the formation of the tissues is soon arrested, for the mass of the solid constituents of the blood do not, to any extent atMETAMORPHOSIS OF MATTER. 27 least undergo alteration, showing that the requisite material is not derived from them. The blood, considered as a whole, therefore, is not properly the material of nutrition, but is only a means of transport between the absorbent surfiice of the intestines and the tissues. It follows also that neither the fibrin nor the corpuscles is the material from which the tissues are directly nourished ; but probably the solid, especially the albuminous, constituents of the serum, which diminish to a certain extent in starvation, are the immediate source of supply. (' Vir- chow's Arch.,' 29, p. 241.) Assimilation of Isomorplious Substances.—Eoussin has made experi- ments on hens and pregnant rabbits, to determine whether isomorphous substances can act as substitutes for each other in the body—whether substances which externally to the organism replace each other without essential alteration of the crystalline form possess a like value in animal nutrition. With the food of the hens were mixed the carbonates of baryta, strontia, magnesia, iron, zinc, lead, copper, cobalt, and of both the oxides of manganese, hydrated^clay, and the oxide of antimony. Of these, all the monoxides passed into tlie egg-shell; the sesquioxides (the clay, iron, and manganese) and the oxide of antimony did not. Thus, the ex- pectations of the experimenters were fulfilled. Each metal gave special physical characters to the shell. Since the iodide, bromide, and fluoride, are isomorphous with the chlo- ride of sodium, of which the egg contains much, Eoussin anticipated that the former would take the place of the latter, which he found to be the case, and to so great an extent as to indicate that the egg was the chief channel for their excretion. In one egg as much as 8 grains of the iodide was found. The iodide and bromide, especially the latter, caused the shell to be very thin, or even altogether wanting, although the hens had free access to lime. This effect was least marked on the strongest and largest feeders. The chickens differed in no respect from ordinary ones. The following is one of Rous^sin's experiments with the arseniates (iso- morphous with the phosphates). A female rabbit took daily with its food 75 gr. of an arseniate. In 7 days it was sick, but after a pause of 12 days it bore the salt well for a long time. After a month it gave birth to 5 young, which it suckled. In the bones of these arsenic was found on the 25th, 43rd, and 60th day; scarcely any in the muscles. They had been either suckled or fed on food containing arsenic. After tiie second month they were fed with increasing doses of arsenic, which reached in one case as much as i"5gr. daily. During the 3 months the experiment lasted they were perfectly healthy. The bones then con- tained an increased quantity of arsenic, which was also present in the urine, mixed with triple phosphates; the muscles still showed scarcely any. The surviving rabbit of the brood (4 having been killed) was now deprived of arsenic, and became for some weeks much emaciated. After 3 months arsenic could be detected only in 600 gr. of bone, whereas in those last killed it was discoverable in 75 gr. The muscles contained none. In the mother rabbit traces were found after being 5 months without it. ('Ecceuil de Mem. de Med. milit.,' 3 ser., 9, p. 136- and ' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 1864, vol. 121, p. 5.) Functions of the Epiglottis.—Dr. Schiff shows by experiments on dot's28 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. that even m swallowing liquids the epiglottis is not touched by them • and also that its complete removal does not interfere in any way with the perfect protection of the glottis during swallowing; this being, as is well known, ollected by its closure by its own muscles, and by its being drawn up behind and beneath tiie base of the tongue. The epiglottis does, how- ever, serve to protect the air-passages, viz., against the trickling into them of the small quantity of fluid which remains in the mouth after drinking. This liquid, by collecting in the sinus pyriformes by the side of the epiglottis, and stimulating their sensibility, gives rise naturally to a supplementary act of swallowing. Dogs in which the epiglottis was removed coughed after drinking, unless they were induced to perform this supplementary act of swallowing by licking the cup, &c. In persons, therefore, who drink in such a way that the fluid falls by its own gravity into the mouth the absence of the epiglottis would lead to choking, and this probably explains the contradictory results which have been met with. This view of its function is confirmed by the special development of the epiglottis in animals in which fluids naturally enter the mouth without suction—as in the whale, the otter, and the young of the Monotremata, which latter do not suck, the mother by her own muscles squeezing the milk into their mouths. (' Moleschott's Unter- suehungen,' vol. 9, p. 321.) IX. NEETOTJS SYSTEM. The Functions of the various portiotis of the Nervous Centres in the vertebrata have been newly investigated by Pietro Eenzi, who has published the results obtained in lishes, reptiles, and birds, in the ' Ann. Univers.,' 185—187, 1863-4. In the fish (salmon) are found—(i) the olfactory lobes; (2) the central lobes; (3) the optic lobes, within which are the optic commissure and the 4 corpora quadrigemina ; (4) the cerebellum; and (5) the ganglia inferiora. In respect to the general properties of the brain, Eenzi's results agree with those of Flourens—the cerebral lobes, optic laminae, and the fibres of the cere- bellum, are neither sensitive nor excitory; the internal ganglia of the optic lobes are in a high degree excitory, violent convulsions ensuing when they are wounded. One point is added, that when the cere- bellum is injured convulsive motions of the eyeball follow. Fishes deprived of the cerebral lobes retain their sensational jjerceptions and their instinctive activity ; they avoid painful impressions, struggle when removed from the water, and avoid a blow directed towards their eyes ; but they seem to have no apprehension of danger, nor of the means of seeking food, nor do they make any spontaneous move- ments. In a word, the cerebral lobes are the seat of intelligence, and this alone. The lamincB optica are the centres of vision, each for the opposite eye. The ganglia interna are the central terminations of the motor cerebro-spinal nerves, and are exciters of muscular contraction, any irritation of them producing active muscular twitchings. After exten- sive injury of both or either of them there results a general muscular relaxation ; extreme prostration and death soon follow. These ganglia are connected with the same and not with the opposite side of the body.29 NEUVOUS SYSTEM. The ganglia inferiora caunot be experimented upon separately from them, and have, most probably, the same function. The corpora quadri- gemina are not excitory, but further results were not attainable. The cerebellum—(i) is the' co-ordinator of voluntary movements; when it is destroyed, the animal moves irregularly and often rotates. (2) It has a connection with the sight, continued convulsions of the eye of the same side following its injury. Greneral prostration results least from destruction of the cerebral lobes, more from that of the cerebellum, still more from that of the laminae opticse; it is very great after destruction of the ganglia interna, and instantaneous death with convulsions follows that of the medulla oblongata. Eeuzi's experiments on reptiles were made solely on Rana esculenta. The brain consists of—(i) the 2 cerebral lobes. (2) The thalami optici. (3) The optic lobes, two smooth, round, hollow eminences, on which the optic nerve spreads out into two roots. The portion sur- rounding the cavity is termed the lamina optica. (4) The cerebellum, a simple transverse medullary strip. (5) The medulla oblongata. The brain proper, the superior layers of the laminse opticas, and the cere- bellum, are neither sensitive nor excitory. The deeper portions of the thalami as well as the optic lobes are excitory, the latter in a high degree. Moderate or powerful contractions ensue upon a second wound of these two parts, according as those which preceded have been violent or slight. The deep parts of the optic lobes are sensitive as well as excitory, as also are the upper and posterior fibres of the medulla ob- longata. The cerebral lobes are the seat of intelligence, but Eenzi denies Flourens' statement that their removal destroys the sense-per- ceptions. If one cerebral lobe alone is removed intelligence remains, even if somewhat weakened, and the sensibility, spontaneous motion, and instinctive activity, sufier no disturbance. But the intellectual per- ception is lost in respect to the eye of the opposite side. That is, when the right side of the cerebrum is removed in a frog, and the right eye is rendered blind by evacuation of its fluids, the animal remains quiet, it exhibits no fear on being approached, threatening motions made towards its left eye do not disturb it; it seems, as Flourens thought, to be blind. But if an object is placed in front of it, and it is excited to movement, it avoids the obstruction, moves away from it, creeps under it, or passes around it, in a way that proves that the left eye still has perception. When successive layers of the cerebrum are removed from above downwards, or from before backwards, no consider- able diminution of intelligence ensues until a large portion has been lost, and it ceases entirely only when not the least fragment remains attached to the crura. But division of the crura is the same as total destruction of the lobes. The thalamus opticus has strictly no relation to sight, which is unaffected by its section unless the optic tract or the crus of the cerebrum is involved; but its section induces a transient rotatory movement towards the uninjured side, or alternately towards each side, if both are divided. If deeply pierced with a fine needle general convulsions ensue. The thalami are the organs of intellectual or spontaneous movement; being the point at which the excitor fibres of the spinal cord come into relation with those of the cerebrum. TheREPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 80 optic lobes, on the other liaud, are the centres for the instinctive move- ments. Destruction of the cerebellum produces no effect beyond a certain weakness, soon recovered from. Probably, therefore, the so- called cerebellum in the frog does not answer to that organ in other animals. By removing all the portions above the medulla oblongata, and separating it from the spinal cord, the following results were arrived at:—(i) The medulla oblongata is the seat of the sense of touch and of pain. (2) It is the source of the instinctive motions—those, e. q., which result from sensations and from the need of breathing. (3) It is the seat of the instinctive demands or instincts, such as respiration, rejection of noxious gases, withdrawal from irritation. In respect to lloureus' punctum vitale, Kenzi found that a transverse section of the medulla behind the point of the calamus did not affect either respira- tion, sight, or intelligence; a section precisely at that point stopped the respiration and caused sudden death; a section above it only caused a cessation of the psychical functions. (3) In respect to birds, of which a great variety were employed for experiment, the excitability and sensibility are, in general, the same as in the previous classes. Renzi agrees with Bouillad, Longet, and Lussana, against Flourens, that when the hemispheres are removed the instincts and sense-perceptions remain with the movements determined by these, and only intelligence is wanting. When only one hemisphere is removed intelligence and instinctive action remain, but there is ex- hibited a certain degree of torpidity; the bird is more disposed to sleep, is more quiet, and less ready to take alarm. It does not lose sense- perce2}tion on the opposite side, as Plourens held, but only the intellec- tual apprehension connected with it. Partial removal of both hemi- spheres confirm Plourens' statement that some intellectual activity re- mains as long as any of the cerebral structure is intact, and that the separate mental powers have not separate localities, but disappear together. Division of the fibres connecting the hemispheres and medulla oblongata has the same effect as their total extirpation. The thalami optici and optic lobes are centres for sight in the crossed direction and also for motion; the former for the voluntary, the latter for the in- stinctive, motions. The cerebellum is the co-ordinator of muscular movements, but it performs this function through an action directed, not to the muscles, but to the senses. The cerebellum is the seat of sensuous attention. A finch in which the anterior portion of the cere- bellum was injured soon recovered from the consequent lesions of motion, and seated itself upon its perch. In this position threatening motions made before its eye, though wide open, did not affect it, until it was aroused by tapping on the cage. Then it fluttered unsteadily, as being frightened when similar movements were made, but relapsed when left at rest. On this view of the functions of the cerebellum Renzi thinks tlie part ascribed to it in the sexual function is explained. The medulla oblongata is a centre for sight and smell, as well as for feeling and hearing. Section at the apex of the calamus, even when not complete, causes sudden death, as also does a section made from i to f of a line in front of it, but here the section must be complete. (' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' 1864, No. 11, p. 151.)81 NEKVOUS SYSTEM. Dr. Baudelot, as the result of experiments on the brain in fishes, sjiyg—" If we compare the functions of the corresponding parts of ence- phalon in mammalia and in fishes, we find—(i) That in mammalia jiblation of the hemispheres always induces loss of intelligence and of will; in fishes it is followed by no appreciable eSect. (2) In mam- malia destruction of the cerebellum destroys the power of co-ordination of voluntary movements; in fishes it does not afiect this power, or in a very slight degree. (3) After ablation of the arch of the optic lobes in fishes vision is abolished, as it is in mammalia after removal of the cor- pora quadrigemina. (4) In fishes lesions of the base of the optic lobes and of the medulla oblongata induce disorders of movement entirely analogous to those which are produced in mammalia by lesions of the optic thalami, of the cerebral peduncles, and of the middle peduncles of the cerebellum." (' Journ. de I'Anat. et Phys.,' No. i, 1864, p. 110.) Structure and Functions of the Cerelellmi.—In reference to the structure of the cerebellum, Dr. Luys ('Journ. de I'Anat. et de la Phys.,' 1864, Nos. 3 and 5, pp. 225 and 450) states that all the white fibres of that organ first converge towards the gray matter of the corpus rhomboidale, which is in respect to them what the optic tha- lamus is in respect to the cerebral fibres. These white fibres emerge as distinct fibrillae from the cortical gray matter, and appear to be con- stituted by the union of successive prolongations from nerve-cells of diverse characters. The efi'erent fibres constitute the 3 peduncles, and are all crossed in their distribution. The inferior peduncles pass to the olivary bodies, and thence to mingle with the spinal fibres ; the superior peduncles pass to two masses of gray matter placed in the middle line, answering in all respects to the olivary bodies ('• superior olivary bodies"), and from thence radiate in all directions, chiefly in three bundles, which all intermingle with the ascending spinal fibres. The three pedundles together give origin to a continuous plexiform network of gray substance, extending from the pons to the corpus striatum. The cells constituting this network are of a peculiar yellowish colour, some of them especially charged with pigment, those of the locus niger, e. g., which form a part of the peripheral expansion of the superior peduncles. This gray matter is the instrument through which the influence of the cerebellum is distributed, and it is united intimately and exclusively with the system of the anterior spinal fibres, with the primitive fibrils of which they gradually come into contact. Then the cerebellar fibre becomes, as it were, unbound, the axis cylinder is iin- ravelled, the sheath is prolonged in filaments, at the extremities of which there appear small characteristic cells, and it thus blends itself with the anterior spinal fibre (itself become thin), and these two separate nervous elements become strictly combined. Thus they pro- ceed together till they come into contact with the large cells of the gray matter of the corpus striatum. The walls of these cells are covered with a series of small yellowish cellules, which are the distal expansion of the peduncular fibres of the cerebellum. These furnish anatomical proof of the propagation of the action of the cerebellum to the large cells of the corpus striatum.82 EEPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. Dr. Luys holds that tlie cerebellum is the generator of a special nervous force, incessantly produced by its cortical substance, and distri- buted to the motor regions of tlie cord. Thus he accounts for the various derangements of motion which ensue upon destruction or division of its fibres. The cerebellar influ.Y keeps the elements of the spinal cord, as it were, continually charged. The influence of the cere- bellum also, transmitted through the corpus striatum to the hemispheres, may be_ the source of the consciousness of muscular power—of the sense of ability to act. And pathology (cases of physical excitement with congestion of the cerebellum, reported by Calmeil, and of extreme pusillanimity with degeneration or non-development of tiiat organ, reported by Andral and others) seems to indicate that the vigour of the mental character is greatly determined by the functional activity of the cerebellum. The Retina, as analysed hy the Stereoscope.—Z. Towne reports experi- ments designed to show that many phenomena of vision ascribed to mental agency are really due to structure, and prove identity of sensa- tion in corresponding parts of the two retina?. The experiments re- lating to colour, by Meyer, Dove, Briicke, Helmholz, and others, consist in simultaneously presenting difterent colours to the two eyes, regarding each retina as a whole. Mr. Towne's method is to present the different colours to corresponding halves of the retinae. A stereoscopic test for the retina is applied by means of slides so adapted as to separate the great tracts of the retina, thus allowing the condition of each part to be critically observed. Not only does identity of action and of sensation exist between corresponding tracts of the two retina?, it exists also between very minute portions. The theory of identical points, how- ever, would seem to require that the images referred to corresponding parts of the retinse should perfectly agree, which is not always the case. With reference to this point, it is shown that images differing consider- ably in magnitude, if their colours are identical, will blend and appear as one ; while, on the other hand, images identical in form and sub- mitted -to identical parts of the retina will, the" colours being dis- harmonious, appear double and distorted. In monocular vision there is nothing analogous to this; the two halves of each retina being entirely distinct. (' Guy's Hospital Eeports,' 1862, ,33, 34.) Development of Heat hy Nervous Action.—Valentin has made experi- ments, using the sacral plexus of the frog, to determine afresh the question whether the activity of a nerve or nervous centre raises its temperature, which Helmholz's experiments left doubt- ful. By the use of a very delicate thermo-magnetic instrument he established that electrical or mechanical irritation of the spinal cord raised the temperature both of the cord and the nervous trunks. The heat rose for some minutes after the irritation, and was increased by repetitions of it. In a medium experiment it rose "078° C. (1-4 F.). There is no doubt that a nerve-action, determined, not only by means of electrical, but also by means of mechanical irritation of the spinal cord, has for its efiect a demonstrable elevation of temperature in the sacral plexus and the sacral nerves. The temperature con- tinues to increase by radiation, and its exact amount cannot yet be determined. ('Virchow's Arch.,' v. 28, p. 49 )REPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE AND PATHOLOGY. BX C. HANDriELD JONES, M.B. Caktab., P.K.S., PHXSICIAN TO ST. MAllX'S nOSPITAL. GENEEAL SYSTEM. "Webeb.—On the TropMo Nerves and their injluenoe on Inflammation. Med. Times and Graz., Oct. i. Eeferring to Samuel's experiments (for a notice of which v. ' Tear Boolf,' 1862, p. 118) which went to show that not paralysis, but con- siderable irritation of nerves, would produce inflammation, Weber states that Dr. Tobias, a pupil of Virchow's, at first showed that the method which had been employed by Samuel was a faulty one. One drawback to it appeared to be that croton-oil had been used for irritating the nerves of rabbits, and this substance was now shown to lead to those extensive suppiu-ative changes which had been observed by Samuel even if the nerves themselves were not at all touched by it. By this, however, only part of the problem had been solved, and Weber there- fore repeated the whole of Samuel's experiments, but without in any case observing the appearances described by him. Moreover, his mode of experimentation proved to be too injurious to the animals. If nerves (Prof. AVeber argues) are for ten minutes acted upon by a powerful electric current, and no aiTaugements are made for insulating the current and preventing its radiation to the neighbouring tissues, the experiment loses its value; nor can we be astonished that there should be more or less diffuse inflammation if nerves are tied to pieces of bone and afterwards touched with croton oil. But such inflammation is neither confined to the ramifications of the nei'ves thus treated, nor is it so constant that any sound deductions could be made from its occurrence. Weber therefore thought it advisable to employ a safer and more exact method of examining this question. To excite the nerves for a somewhat longer space of time, he used partly threads loosely placed round them, or metal rings or fine needles, and partly the continuous galvanic current, the nerves being enveloped with a fine conducting wire of copper and platinum. The results of such excita- 384 EEPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. tion of tlie uervea were—contraction of the blood-vessels, decrease of temperature lasting for a longer or shorter time, and occasionally venous hyperemia, but never any symptoms of inflammation. It seemed strange that Samuel had not at all experimented on the sympa- thetic nerve, although Claude Bernard had more than ten years ago shown it to possess a peculiar influence upon the blood-vessels. Weber has also experimented on this question, and confirmed, amongst others, the results arrived at by Bonders and Snellen, who had found that after the section of the sympathetic and consequent dilatation of blood- vessels, the inflammation excited in the ears of rabbits was more in- tense, and had a much more rapid course. He observed that if rabbits' ears were injured, or setons drawn through them, the wounds healed much more quickly after the section of the sympathetic fibres than if the nerves were still acting. Long continued excitation of the nerves had no influence on the inflammatory action. He also remarked that after the section of the cervical sympathetic the dilated vessels might be caused to contract again by cold or electricity, or to be further ex- panded by heat. This can only be explained by assuming either an in- dependent irritability of the muscular fibres of the blood-vessels, or the existence of an independent ganglionic system. The assertion of Schift' that there was a special set of nerves having the function of expanding the blood-vessels is contradicted by Weber. It would therefore appear that the influence of nerves upon inflammation is nothing else but the influence exercised by them upon the blood-vessels, and that inflamma- tion cannot directly be caused either by paralysis or irritation of nerves. Indirectly, however, these latter have a considerable influence upon the nutrition of the parts, and the course of inflammation in the tissues, as upon them depends the amount of blood contained in the vessel, since by irritation of the vaso motor nerves anaemia and defective nutrition, and by paralysis of the same, hyperismia, a more rapid metamorphosis- of matter, greater inflammatory action, and a more rapid course of the inflammation are caused. TuENEE, W., M.B.— On tlie textual changes loliich occur in Inflam- mation of serous memlranes. Edin. Med. Joum., April, 1864. Turner says, " To carry out successfully an inquiry into the nature of the inflammatory process in a serous membrane, the attention of the pathologist should not be confined to the examination of the Ipnph coating its free surface, or to the mingled liquid and solid products lying in the serous cavity, but the membrane itself should be carefully inspected, not only at its free surface, but for some distance into its sub- stance. This may be efiiciently done by making sections through its entire thickness, and carrying the knife (Valentine's) even into the subserous connective tissue. If a portion of the subjacent healthy texture is thus included along Avith the diseased in the section, the observer is enabled to make in the same preparation and from the same locality a comparison of the healthy tissue with that in wliich the characteristic inflammatory changes have taken place." After citing Keumau's, Cohnhcim's, and Eindfleisch's observations; Turner expresses his oi)inion that the part which the epithelium plays in the productionGENEEAL SYSTEM. 85 of the cells of tbe inflammatory lymph ia comparatively unimportant, and that it is the sub-epithelial connective tissue we are more especially to look to as the seat of their formation. When sections through the inflamed costal pleura were examined before the addition of acetic acid and glycerine, a confused mass of new-formed cells mingled with the proper fibres of the sub-epithelial connective tissue in apparently inex- ti-icable confusion was seen. But after the addition of the above reagents had caused the white fibrous element of the tissue to disap- pefu', the aiTangement and relations of the new-formed cells could be followed, especially in those parts of the section where the elastic fibres wei-e at a minimum. The new-formed cells were small, pale, and rounded, with faintly granular contents, and closely corresponded in. their characters to those existing in the inflammatory lymph coating the free surface of the membrane. . In those parts of the sections which lay immediately beneath this free surface, the cells were crowded to- gether in great numbers, and formed closely-packed rows, or clustered masses. But somewhat deeper they were not so densely set, and here, therefore, their mode of arrangement could be more satisfactorily studied. In many places they were so disposed as to form a network, more or less close, which possessed greater or lesser degrees of irregularity in the size and form of its meshes. For the most part the cells were arranged in rows, though here and there they lost the linear disposition and formed small clusters. The cells succeeding each other in any given row were either actually or almost in contact, though occasionally inter- vals of somewhat greater extent existed between them. These cell networks evidently did not lie free in the interstices of the texture, but were enclosed by an investing membrane, which appeared to constitute a tubular system possessing numerous anastomoses, though here and there the tubes gradually terminated in long pointed processes. Cells containing tubular networks presenting modifications of the plan just described, could be followed through the greater part of the thickness of the inflamed costal pleura, though in some places the numerous yellow elastic fibres prevented the arrangement from being so closely traced. The constancy of these arrangements shows that these cells containing tubular networks are not mere accidental occurrences in inflammation of the pleura, but are evidently due to something in the anatomical configuration of the part which determines that the new cells produced in the course of the inflammatory process should arrange them- selves in such a manner. Turner indicates the stellate and anastomosing nucleated corpuscles of the connective tissue as the essential seat of the new cell-growth, and as therefore determining its arrangement. If this texture be examined in the early periods of the inflammatoiy process, the single nucleus of the connective tissue-corpuscle may be seen to be constricted in the middle as if dividing, or to have divided into two or a greater number. The corpuscles themselves are enlarged and swollen and contain two or more small, pale, faintly granular, cell-like bodies, corresponding in appearance to the cells which constitute so essential a constituent of the in6ammatory lymph. With the further continuance of the inflammation the corpuscles swell out more, and become more distorted in shape ; their anastomoses become larger and more distinct;HEPORT on PEACl'ICAL MEDICINE. 86 the new^ cells formed in their iuterlor are greatly multiplied, and iuatcad of being collected merely in clusters at the spots which correspond to the original bodies or central parts of the corpuscles, they extend in rows along the interior of tlie dilated anastomosing processes. At a still later period the i)roliferatiou of the nuclei has increased to such an extent, and the new cells formed are so numerous, that the part seems to be altogetlier composed of these new productions, and all trace of their mode of origin is lost. In the inflamed peritoneum the results of observation were similar. Turner states in conclusion, that the general result arrived at from these and most other recent researches on the inflammatory process is that an explanation of its phenomena is not to be looked for by referring them to actions of tlie extreme vessels, but to a disturbance of the forces v.'hich naturally exist in the extra-vascular portions of the inflamed part. (Groodsir.) Smolee, M.—On the dit/ration of some acute diseases, their lethality, and complications. Wien. Zeitschr. i8, 3, p. 151, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 131, p. 233. Smith, E.—Lancet, April 2. In the dietetic treatment of eases of undue spareness of habit, when the object is to increase the bulk of the body, Smith recommends—(i) quietude and mental repose; (2) where there is excitability of the system and general frequency of pulse, prolongation of the hours of sleep, and restraining of bodily exertion; (3) where the vital functions are not actively performed, the assimilation of food must be promoted by increased bodily activity, and the use of highly nitrogenized food ; (4) to supply any deficiency of heat of body by abundant clothing, by the direct application of heat to the skin, through the medium of air or water, and if necessary by lessening the action of the skin by inunction or by saline solutions; (/j) to increase the activity of the digestive process if necessary by food highly nitrogenized, by exertion, and by the inspiration of pure air ; (6) to supply an increased quantity of fatty aa well as nitrogenized foods in combination. Milk in small quantities should be cooked and given at each meal, and in daily quantities of a pint and a half to 3 pints. "Whenever milk is disliked as an article of food, it may be readily taken if given in small quantities when hot, made into puddings, or prepared with chocolate, .coffee, or other foods; (7) alcohols (and particularly good and somewhat new ale) are most powerful agents when given in quantities of ale of half a pint to a jiint and a half daily. Rum taken with milk is the most powerful restoratiA-e and promoter of assimilation and alimentation that we possess. He records a case in which the emaciation was extreme, the limbs cold, with numerous patches of livid discoloration and blisters of the skin. The pulse was very feeble, thready, and not above 50 per minute; the I'espiratory movements exceedingly feeble, and the chest very flat. The appetite was so reduced, that for many weeks she liad not taken more than 2 oz. of bread or biscuit, 2 oz. of milk, and f of an ounce of cooked meat daily. The only cause of the disorder seemed to be the occurrence of measles 10 moutlis previously, since which time she hadfiUNERAL SYSTEJr, 37 been iu feeble health. By means of a daily hot balli, ami hob oil iu- iinction, wrapping in cotton wool, and diligent feeding at short intervals, she was gradually restored. Smith, E., M.D.—0)1 Ohcsihj. Lancet, May 14, 21. Smith distinguishes apparent obesity from prominence of the abdomen from the real state. His conclusions arc as follows :—(i) In a medical point of view, we must consider in every case whether the bulk and weight of the body are appreciably in excess of the natural standard of health. If the person for reasons of his own seeks to reduce his size below this, he must be responsible for the results. (2) An accurate estimate must also be made of the degree of vigour of system, including the power of heart, and the functions of digestion and assimilation ; also of the condition under which the patient lives, and the capability which he has for making exertion, in order to determine what amount of deficiency of food, elimination of fluid, and exercise can be tolerated consistently with good health. (3) When the plan of treatment has been arranged, it must be carried out slowly and steadily for a number of weeks or months, without being departed from in any instance. (4) The state of the health and of the bodily vigour, must be watched from time to time; and as the bulk of the body diminishes, the supply of food must be increased. (5) AVhen the desired bulk has been attained, it will not be possible to maintain an exactly uniform weight over long periods; but a dietary must be then devised, which shall suffice to maintain health and weight under the conditions in which the patient lives. (6) When the complaint is only of an enlarged abdomen, it will not be necessary, neither will it be safe, to lessen materiallj' the amount of food supplied ; but attention to the evacuations, to digestion, to the reduction of starchy food, to the avoidance of fish, and to elimi- nation by the skin, Avill produce the desired results. (7) When with bulk of body there is looseness of the tissues, it is essential that the strength be supported by abundant nitrogenized food, and by a small quantity of wine, at the same time that the elimination of fluid is maintained by active exertion, and the use of the hot-air bath followed by the cold douche. (8) When with obesity there is a vigorous system, deficiency in the supply of food^ and increase in bodily exertion may be appropriately enforced. Butcher's meat should supply a large propor- tion of the nutriment, whilst fai'inaceous food should be much restricted. Brown bread should be given with a view to maintain a free action of the bowels ; and gluten bread with its excess of nitrogen and deficieney of starch, when toasted, may supply its place or be added to it. Only so much milk, sugar, aud fats should be given as may complete the quan- tity of carbon required. Fish is far less suitable than butcher's meat; and if wine must be taken, it should contain as little alcohol as possible. Beer and spirits should be avoided. The exact amount of these diflferent kinds of food must be determined by the requirements of each individual case, but two schemes maybe mentioned, one of which (A) shall supply 7^ oz., and the other (B) oz. of carbon. (A) Butcher's meat without bone, raw, 12 oz.; bread, 6 oz.; sugar \\ oz.; butter, i oz.; vegetables, 4 oz.; milk, <; fl. oz. (B) Butcher's meat without bone, raw, 10 oz. ;EEPOUT ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE. 88 bread 3 oz.; gluten bread, 3 oz.; green vegetables, 2 oz.; sugar, i oz. In each case 3_ meala should be eaten daily, and :iieat at each meal. The amount of exercise which may bo taken daily when the corpulence is not extreme, is 3 hours at 2 miles per hour, and 2 or 3 hours at 3 miles per hour, or the latter may be supplanted by 2 hours' rough trotting on horseback. The amount of sleep should not exceed 6 or 7 hours daily, as long as the health will tolerate it, and the patient should not take a mid-day nap. Smith bases the following statements on his inquiries into the effect of exactly measured degrees of exertion. These show, that taking the lying posture as the minimum and as the unit of comparison, walking at the rate of i mile per hour is i-g; at 2 miles, 276; at 3 miles, 3-22; and at 4 miles, 5. The effect of cantering on horseback with a rough horse is 3"i6; and of trotting, 4 ; of moderate rowing, 3*33 ; and of moderate swimming, 4*33. The numbers will represent both the relative effect upon tlie body in the consumption of fatty and fat-forming matters in any given time, and the greater number of hours during which a given gentle exercise must be continued to render the effect equal to the severer exercise. For example, one hom''s walking at the rate of 4 miles per hour, would cause as large a consumption of fat as neai'ly 3 hours' walking at i mile per hour; and i hour on the treadwheel is equal to 4 hours' gentle walking. Hence we have almost as powerful an agent in exertion as in fasting; but in employing it we must proceed by slow degrees, and maintain the exertion, keeping always well without the limit of failure of the heart's action and general exhaustion. It is curious to know how much fat is consumed by different modes of exertion per hour. Thus I hour of lying still when asleep at night, consumes o'3i oz. of fat; I hour of lying awake in the day time, o'4.6 oz.; i hour of stand- ing, o"55 oz. ; I hour of walking at the rate of 2 miles per hour, it oz. ; ditto, at the rate of 3 miles per hour, v6 oz.; i hour of working at the treadwheel (if continuous) 275 oz. Hence i lb. of the fat of the body in the absence of food, would be consumed by less than 6 hoiu's' labour at the treadwheel, by 10 hours' walliing at 3 miles per hour, and by i4|- hours of walking at 2 miles per hour. If we further estimate that 10 oz. of carbon are required by the body daily with only moderate exertion, and that by the food we supply only 5 oz., there will be a consumption of 8 ot. of the fat, or other carbon-yielding material stored up in the body daily, besides the much larger amount of fluid which would be emitted at the same time. A loss of 6 lbs. in Aveight may thus talce place in a single day. EADCLirrE, C. B., M.D.—^ feio tvords concerning Bantingwn. Med. Tim. and Graz., Aug. 20. Eadcliffe says the diet in Bantingism is essentially the same as that prescribed in training for the ring or for the boat-race. The chief peculiarity in each case, is to allow a large amount of lean meat. It may be expected that Bantingism cannot be carried beyond a certain point with advantage. In training, this is certainly the case, for after a certain time, within 4 months at the longest, the person in training gets rapidly out of condition. Nor is it otherwise with Bantingism, at39 SJiNEUAL SYSTEM. any rate, Eadcliffe says lio has met witli several persons who after trying the system for awhile with no disadvantage, have thus got out of con- dition in an unmistakable manner, some of them becoming very gout^^, and all of them experiencing a decided failure in strength and spirits. Eadclifte tliinks that the procedure in question while it nourishes the muscles may starve the nerves, and thus induce a corresponding want of nervous energy. Eadcliffe believes that the farinaceous, sac- charine, and oily articles of food are, in proper proportion, not to be dis- pensed with without risk, inasmuch as they are the most suitable fuel for Jceeping up the heat of the human body at the proper point. He is of opinion that certain persons may incline to the type of vegetable feeders rather than to the type of animal feeders ; and that these persons may find the nitrogenized part of their food better in the albumen, fibriue, and caseine of vegetables, than in tliose of animals. DoTTS', J. L. H., M.D.—On Folysarcia and its treatment. Clin. Lectures and Eeports of the London Hospital, 1864, p. 97. Down reports the following case:—E. C—, imbecile, admitted Nov., 1858, fet. 21, 4 ft. 4 in. high, weight 196 lbs., enormously stout, had been delicate and thin up to set. 7. In Jan., 1862, she weighed 210 lbs., suffered from dyspnosa, and was almost always asleep, and her habits were very dirty. At this date she continued a mixed diet, restricted in amount, and took Pot. lod. gr. iiss ter die for six mouths. No dimi- nution of bulk ensued, but there was no increase, though this had been going on continuously for the previous 12 years. The diet remaining the same, she took Liq. Potassse ii\x—xxx ter die over a period of 7 months. Under this treatment her health became deteriorated, anaemia appeared, and her weight remained about 210 lbs., sometimes a few pounds more, sometimes as many less. On leaving off the alkali she weighed 206 lbs., and then took Extr. Puci Vesiculosi 30 grains ter die for ID weeks, when she weighed 203 lbs. Her general health improved; the drug caused diuresis. She was now placed on a purely meat diet, without medicine, which was continued from April 30th to Aug. 29th, when she weighed 175 lbs. On the same diet, but taking Extr. Puci Vesiculosi, the loss of weight was somewhat more rapid. Subsequently, on the same diet being continued up to April 7th, 1864, her weight decreased to 133 lbs.; no dyspepsia or other injurious effects resulted, but on the contrary, she was able to run and" wallc, and made a good convalescence from an attaclc of scarlet fever. .T. HuTCHiNSOU-.—CZmc«Z report of five cases- of true Leprosy. Clinical Lectures and Eeports of the London Hospital, 1864, p. 19. Hutchinson sums up his remarks on these cases with tlie following observations:—That leprosy is far too specific and peculiar in its symp- toms to allow of our supposing it due to the influence of general poverty; that the cases in which Europeans are attacked all indicate the power of endemic influences; that of these food is the one which has most of probability as to its being the true cause; and lastly as the disease is only met with near the sea, we may plausibly guess that it is in some way connected with a fish diet. •II(t TIEVOHT ON IMiACTICAI, MKDICIXE, Ascni^, II.—Jiccrnl conlrihulions lo our Iniowhdqr. of Olmulcrii an occurrint) in Man. Schmidt's .Tahrb., vol. 121, p. 241, "V. AVAirL, E.—On the Purulent Diathesis and Snpiic Infection. Petersb. Med. Ztscln-., v, p. 321, 1863. Schmidt's Jiihrb., vol. 123, p. 42. Wiihl understands by the term jjurulent diatliesis every disturbance of the general system, whicli is brouglit abont by a local suppuration of long duration conjoined with fever, and which is characterised by great depression of the general nutrition, and by a diminished resistance of the tissues to local or general irritants. Septic infection he defines as the general disorder, which is induced by the absorption of putrid matter from a wound, or an inflammatory focus, and announces itself by the affection of the seusorium, the violent continuous fever, the im- plication of the intestinal canal, and a rapid course of a certain cyclical type. When there is a disproportion between the supplies to and the evacuations from the body, a slight, often a mere mechanical, impulse is sufficient to transform the purulent diathesis into the metastasic dyscrasia. The metastases (metastatic abscesses.—Ed.) are in no way characteristic of the febrile forms of self-infection, they form only complications of the general disorder, which gives them their stamp, and they originate certainly for the most part from purely local causes. So also in septic infection the metastases are only accidental phenomena, but they present for the most part the character of a saniating gangrenous inflammation. The author relates 20 cases, from which it appeare that not only exhausting suppurations, but also other processes seriously im- pairing the life of the blood, as the typhous miasm, may produce the essential condition of weakness; and further, that also a moderate amount of fever which does not cause exhaustion, gives vise to the secondary disorders. The cases show further that there are mixed forms of the two conditions described above, in which metastatic abscesses occur conjoined with all the signs of septic infection. The relative frequency of metastatic abscesses in the liver is very remarkable; the author believes the cause to be a peculiar predisposition of this organ induced "bj brandy-drinking. The commencement of such abscesses is not always announced by rigors, sometimes on the contrary it is marked by intense septic fever. As already remarked, septic infection ordinarily runs its course without metastatic abscesses; this may be specially observed in the progressive subcutaneous sanious suppurations of the areolar tissue, termed by Pirogoft' acute purulent oedema. These arise often after apparently unimportant injuries, a contusion or a small punctured wound, and often also Avith the signs of a pseudo-erysipelas, mostly affecting tlic arms and legs; they destroy the areolar tissue and skin with extraordinary rapidity, and cause death either in the few first days (the 5th to the iith), or at a later period by exhaustion after the septic symptoms have disappeared. AVahl ascribes the occurrence of these disorders rather to epidemic influences than to hospital atmosphere. No treatment of any avail has yet been discovered; camphor, acids, and the sulphites proposed by Polli are inefficacious. Early incisions can be of no use as tlie diseased parts are not under the fascia); at a later period, however, incisions shouldGKNEKAL SYSTEJF. 41 be made, drainage tubes introduced, and solutions of chlorine injected. In doubtful cases wliere there is a difficulty of distinguishing betvyeen septic processes and limited necrosis with reactive inflammatory swelling, Wahl believes ths temperature may afford a guide. In ordinary trau- matic fever it increases rapidly and usually reaches its highest figure, io2°—104° on the first or second day, afterwards declining rapidly. In proo-ressive saniation the temperature continues to rise till the fourth day, and remains at 102°—104°, while the accompanying septic fever becomes at the same time continuous. Among the above group of pyjemic disorders Wahl includes the cases of furuncle and pseudo- erysipelas occurring in the face, and running a febrile, rapidly fatal com-se. The cause of these he believes to be a thrombus produced by any cause iu a vein, Avhich subsequently breaks up and by mingling with the blood induces the septic phenomena. MuncHisoN.—On the isolation of Infectious Diseases. Med. Tim. and Gaz., Peb. 20th. Murchison says the objections urged against fever hospitals and fever wards are two, viz.—(i) That the concentration of the poison increases the mortality amongst the patients themselves; and (2) that the con- centration of the poison increases the danger to the attendants. The validity of these objections, which are too often made without reflecting on what would be the alternative if all cases of infectious fever were admitted into general hospitals may be tested by comparing the results of the treatment of typhus in the London Fever Hospital with those in six of the principal general hospitals of the metropolis in the year 1862. During the first 6 months of 1862, 1107 cases of true typhus were under treatment in the London Eever Hospital, of which number 232 died, or the mortality was 20-9^ per cent. In the same period 343 cases of typhus were under treatment in six of the general hospitals of London, of which number 80 died, or 23-32 per cent. It maybe added that nothing contributes more to a fatal termination in typhus than advanced age, and that the proportion of aged typhus patients is much larger in the London Tever Hospital than in the other hospitals of London, because, a large proportion of them are the aged and decayed inmates of the metropolitan workhouses, and also that a much larger proportion of them are moribund and beyond all hope at the time of admission; 56 of the 232 cases mentioned above dying within 48 hours of tlieir arrival at the hospital. But leaving these elements out of the calculation, inasmuch as we do not possess the actual figures on the other side, the bare fact remains that the rate of mortality from typhus was greater in the general hospitals than iu the hospital specially devoted to fever. The result, however, is insignificant in comparison to what follows. The 1080 (1107 — 27) cases admitted into the Fever Hospital communicated the disease to 27 persons, of whom 8 died. In other words, only i person took the fever for every 40 admitted, and only one died for every 13^. But the 272 cases admitted into the 6 general hospitals communicated the disease to 71 persons, of whom 21 died ; or i person caught the fever for" every 3-8 cases admitted, and i life was lost for every i2*p cases admitted. Murchison admits that it isEEPORT ON PRACnCAL MEDICINE. 42 not a common occurrence for typhus to spread in so many of the general hospitals at one time, but this circumstance was due entirely to the unusual prevalence of typhus in all parts of the metropolis. He says it would not be diflicult to cite many instances of an older date, where typlius has spread in general hosjntals even to a greater extent tlian that indicated above; while since the comparison was made, the admis- sion of 2 or 3 patients suffering from typhus into ,3 general hospitals of London has been followed by an alarming and fatal spread of tlie dis- ease. Moreover, he proceeds, the time selected was far from being the most favorable to the London Fever Hospital, the rate of mortality being considerably above the average, and a large number of the nurses being unseasoned owing to tlie great reduction which had taken place in the hospital staif during the previous period of small prevalence of fever. During the 14 years immediately preceding the date of the com- parison, 3680 cases of typhus were treated in the Fever Hospital, but the disease was communicated to only 53 persons (nurses and patients) of whom 14 died. In other words, only i person caught the fever for every 70 under treatment, and only i died for every 263 under treatment. Moreover, many of the persons who caught fever in the hospital were patients admitted with other diseases, and who were formerly treated in the same wards with the typhus patients; many in fact caught typhus in consequence of the principle of isolation not being suffi- ciently carried out. Since June, 1862, the typhus-and scarlet-fever patients have been isolated from the other patients, and from one another, and the result has been, that only 2 or 3 have contracted either of these diseases in the hospital since the change was made. Murchison concludes that on the plan of isolation, provided there be ample ventilation, cases of infectious fever can be treated with equal advantage to themselves, and with far less danger to the attendants, in proportion to the number of cases treated. Report of the Vienna Sospital for i860, '61, '62. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, p. 238. Geehaed and Lamb.—Epidemic of SjyoUed Fever occurring in the vicinity of Fliiladelphia in the year 1863. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci., July, 1863 ; Brit, and For. Med.-Chir, Kev., Jan., 1864. The symptoms exhibited were sudden chill and intense headache, and pain in the back, followed by fever; the patient became dull and heavy, either not answering at all or only when loudly spoken to. In some cases there was delirium, but in the majority the cerebral disturbance tended rather towards stupor or coma. In fatal cases there was always coma a few hours before death. There was often vomiting at the com- mencement but no epigastric tenderness. There was constipation antl disgust of food; the urine was perfectly healthy; the degree of fever varied; the pulse was frequent not strong, and frequently diminished in strength and rapidity ; the heat of the skin was comparatively mode- rate. In some instances the patient exhaled a peculiar odour. The eruption consisted of spots varying in size from a pin's point to ecchy- mosos an inch or two in breadth. Each spot was of dull-red or purple colour, varying in shade; the lighter spots became somewhat lighterGENERAL SYSTEM. 43 on strong pressure, but the darker were not modified in any way; tliey were evidently due to effusion of blood in the true skin. They were in no degree elevated, and were scattered x^retty equally throiighout the body, being perhaps a little more abundant in the extremities than in the trunk. They usually appeared at the end of 24 hours, sometimes earlier, and in some cases were perceptible after death, although not very ^^sible during life. The duration of the spots was very variable ; in some cases they lasted a week or two, disappearing in the same way as the dark colour of a bruise. The complexion was dull and slightly yellow, but there was no jaundice. The eyes were moderately injected in some instances, but rather in the veins than in the arteries. In one case an eye was destroj^ed by suppuration. There were no glandular enlargements. No age was exempted, but the larger proportion of patients were between 15 and 20 years of age. More females than males wei'e attacked. In one case examined after death there was con- gestion of the brain and an effusion of serum at its base and in the ven- tricles. The lungs were slightly congested posteriorly; the right side of the heart contained very dark fluid blood, with a very small and flaccid coagulum. There wei-e ecchymoses under the serous layer of the pericardium and under the serous covering of the stomach, and there was an ecchymosis a quarter of an inch broad in one of the glands of Peyer. The fever appears to have originated in the army in Virginia, before it reached Pennsylvania; but it does not seem to have spread by contagion. There was no positive evidence of its having been transmitted from the sick to the healthy; whilst in many cases in Connecticut where it also prevailed it attacked persons who had not been in the neighbourhood of the sick. With regard to. its mortality a number of the patients died in from 12 to 24 hours, and the largest number in the course of the second day. If the patient lived over 48 or 50 hours there was a fair chance of recovery, although fatal cases were met with after the lapse of several days. 'No critical days were noticed. Some convalesced after 2 or 3 days, others after a week or two, and in one instance recovery was protracted for many weeks. Tlie most important remedies were stimulants. Wales, P. S., M.D.—Notice of the Spotted Fever as it occurred at Newport, Bhode Island, in the first ^months of 186^, with a history of the disease, its si/mptoms and treatment. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci., Jan., 1864. Wales concludes from his review of former epidemic fevers that spotted fever has prevailed at various times both in Europe and America, under titles expressive of some of its numerous local complica- tions or forms, and thus giving rise to errors in the recognition of the nature of the various epidemics leading to the separation of diseases essentially the same. He thinks there is no reasonable doubt that the typhoid pneumonia which has prevailed from the earliest period of our history at various times is identical with spotted fever. Four varieties of the disease are described by Dr. Page; (i) that which principally attacks the brain ; (2) the spurious peripneumonic form characterised by pain in the chest, and oppression of breathing, with cough andEEl'OllT ON PHACTICAL MRDICINK. 41. expectoration of viscid, dirty-brown matter, and in some of tlie most malignant cases blood completely dissolved; (3) when the disease was directed to tiio stomach and bowels, producing cholera morbus or colic; (4) when the extremities suffered powerfully with coldness, numbness, and pains. In all these dllferent varieties one common type was ob- served as their basis, thougli veiled by the various modificatious ; and the same treatment was mainly successful. The advent of the disorder is marked in dilferent cases "by an exceeding variety of symptoms; scarce two cases resemble eacli other. Patients are sometimes suddenly arrested in their employment by intense headache and delirium; but more commonly the disease begins with shifting pains in the extremities and joints, headache often of the most atrocious character, nausea, or vomiting, along with a chill, which last, however, soon subsides, and the characteristic delirium and duluess set in. The delirium varies in intensity, occasionally furiously maniacal, generally moderate and quiet; there is extreme restlessness and jactitation. The sensibility of the Avhole surface is sometimes so unwontedly increased that the patient cannot even bear to have his hair touched. There is generally remark- able prostration of strength, and the limbs seem paralysed, and arc numb, and in some cases even insensible; there is deafness, dimness of sight, or even complete loss of vision. A few have convulsions or opisthotonos. The tongue is moist, yellowish, or brownish, never like the red, chapped, beef-like tongue of typhoid. The pulse small, even, thready ; sometimes extinct in very malignant cases, irregular or inter- mitting ; skin cold, and occasionally of a deadly pallor, and like polished marble; eyes glassy, and the pupils irregular in their action, sometimes contracted, then suddenly dilated. When reaction takes place, the pulse becomes feebler, skin warmer, and then there is marked uneasiness, the patient tossing himself about in every direction with delirium; these symptoms remaining 3 days, the patient may be restored to con- valescence, or the disease may advance into stupor, and come to a fatal termination. The intestines appeared in general to be exempt from the effects of the disease. The bladder gives sometimes great annoy- ance, and hsematuria is encountered from the very beginning. Profuse perspiration took place in one case possessing a peculiar mawkish smell. A prominent symptom in one case was inability to swallow. One of the -most peculiar marks of the disease is the eruption, which may occur in all stages of the disease, from the first to tlie tenth day. The spots assume the form of small round ecchymoses of various sizes, from that of a pin's head to that of a split pea, of a light-red coloiu-, like the bites of fleas. As the case advanced the splotches increased in size and coalesced, forming larger ones, or, properly, patches, and in bad cases assuming a livid or purplish colour. Again the form was that of reddish streaks, as if caused by striking the parts with a bundle of twigs. In all cases the eruption was even with the skin, and appeared first upon the extremities, generally the upper, and then over the face and trunk. Tiie duration of the spots varied, sometimes disappearing in 2 or 3 days, at others holding on for a couple of weeks, and then gradually disappearing as convalescence set in ; or becoming larger and deeper on approaching death ; and when this event happened they re-GENERAL SYSTEM. 45 sembled bruises, were very distinctly marked, aud those previously quite light or almost imperceptible were readily observed. The disease does uot appear to be contagious, depressing circumstances favour its invasion. In some cases death ensues in 5 or 6 hours, in others life is protracted for .3 or 4 weeks. The greatest number die on the third and fourth days. iSTo class, sex, or age, is exempt; but it does not appear to be accurately made out, whether one is more liable than another. The mortality varies very much, amounting sometimes to more than 150 per cent., in others only to 3.3 or 2.5 per cent. There are no charac- teristic anatomical lesions, but simply such as result from an altered integrity of the blood marked by a disposition to escape from its vessels. Passive congestions, subserous eifusions of blood, occasionally inflam- mation were met with in the viscera. Other diseases, including measles, rheumatism, and typhus, are often complicated with this fever. "When the brain is involved the prognosis is worse than when the other viscera are alfected. All debilitating treatment seems to be injurious. Blisters have proved very serviceable. Opium, arsenic, and stimulants seem to have been the most useful remedies. Dr. Miner says that all those patients whose symptoms were promptly met with opium invariably recovered. G-AiBDXER, "W. T.—Fads and conchisions as to tJie me of Alcoliolio Stimulants in Typhus Fever. Lancet, March 12. Gairdner affirms that all the old pupils of Dr. Alison will recollect his constant and anxious instruction to the effect that in typhus fever, as well as in other diseases of a typhoid character, stimulants were always to be administered from an early period, without waiting for symptoms of debility, or for any other special indication, except the ascertained nature and tendencies of the disease. His practice, in fact, was essentially a routine, though not nearly so extreme or unqualified as that of Dr. Todd. Gairdner endeavours to show in his paper—1st. That it is possible to reduce the mortality of typhus fever, while with- holding a large proportion of the amount of alcoholic stimulants usually given. 2udly. That this diminution of mortality may take place at all ages, but is most marked amongst the young. 3rd]y. That while at all ages the administration of stimulants ought to be very strictly guarded as likely to prove injurious when [in excess, it is demonstrable that young and temperate persons may be advantageously treated—i. e. treated with a diminished mortality—without one drop of wine or spirits being given from beginning to end of the fever, except in the rarest casualties. 4tlily. That the principle of giving stimulants as a matter of routine in typhus—i. e. at a certain stage of the disease, with but little regard to individual peculiarities —ought to be at once abandoned, ^thly. That an approximation can be made to a more correct doctrine on the subject, though further researches are still required. 6thly. That there is reason to think that in most hospitals as well as in private practice, a very large needless expenditure is incurred through neglect of these facts, a secondary but not unimportant consideration. Tlie aggregate mortality of 595 cases occurrino' in regular succession (with the omission of a few) between November,REPOET ON PUACTICAL MEDICINE. 46 1862, and December, 1863, was 71, or within a fraction of la per cent. It is remarkable that for about 2 montlis tiie mortality rose to 19 per cent., and this increase in the severity of the disorder was observed all over the fever wards. The mortality was, as usual, much greater among the adult and aged patients than among the young. Taking the age of 15 or 16 as the boundary line, it will be observed that among 406 cases above that age 70 died, or about 17.2 per cent.; while of the 189 cases below tliat age only i died, a child aged 6 years, admitted only to die. In the Glasgow I'ever Hospital during two years 1861, 1862, the mor- tality among 1289 cases of all ages was 17.69 per cent., or 3.4 per cent, in tlie young, and 24.1 per cent, in adults. The mortality in King's College Hospital, London, under Dr. Todd, is estimated at 25 per cent., and for the young alone at 17 per cent. Dr. Murcbison's estimate of the average mortality of typhus fever in hospitals at various places, in- cluding Glasgow, is not less than 18 per cent. Now, with reference to the diminished amount of stimulation he has lately employed, Dr. Gairdner states that between August 3rd and December 7th, 1863, there were treated 135 males and 134 females affected with typhus fever, being a total of 269 cases treated to a termination in bis wards. Of these cases 27 died, being at the rate of 10 per cent. During the whole course of tbe treatment the 269 cases consumed 633 oz. of port wine and 666 oz. of whisky, or at the rate of about 2^ oz. of wine and 2-J- oz. of spirits on an average to each patient as the allowance for his entire period of residence, which on an average was 20^ days. On the other hand, in the Glasgow Fever Hospital during the years 1861 and 1862 taken together there were 183 7 cases under treatment, although only 1694 of these were treated to a termination during the period assigned, and only 1289 were typhus. There were consumed in the two years 62,754 oz. of wine, 8440 of whiskey, and 2611 oz. of brandy. Adding the two last sums together and dividing by the number of patients, we find that each patient consumed on an average more than 34 oz. of wine and 6 oz. of spirit. But as much the largest proportion of this quantity was probably given to the 1289 cases of typhus, it is probable that the real average quantity consumed by the typhus cases may have been not less than 40 oz. of wine and 7 oz. of spirits, which would be nearly 16 times as much wine and three times as much spirit as was given to the cases in the series above referred to. AVith this much larger consump- tion of alcoholic stimulants the mortality of typhus was no less than lyi^ per cent., while under the lesser amount of stimulants it was onlj^ 10"per cent. Gairdner proceeds to state that he has long been con- vinced by carefully watched experience of individual cases, that in persons of immature age, and of temperate habits, stimulants should very rarely be administered, except in minute and expei-imental doses, rather as tonics than as stimulants in the proper sense of the term ; and possibly in some very extreme cases of collapse in more considerable quantities ; but not even then with any approach to intoxicating doses. In typhus fever Gairdner is now well assured that this A-iew is well founded, for he records the fact, that the treatment which gave only i fatal case in 189 young persons was a treatment from whicli stimulants were practically excluded, the only patient who had a little wine being47 GENKUAL SYSTEM. a child ^ith cancrum orsis, with great debility of the stomach, long after the fever had run its course. Looking at the results of this practice beside some of those formerly indicated, and especially looking to the rise in the rate of mortality amongst the young in typhus fever, in pro- portion as there seems reason to believe that the practice has leaned to routine of stimulation, Gairdner confesses he is strongly persuaded that to ilie ijoung in typhus, and very prolahly in most other fevers, stimulants are not less than actively poisonous and destructive unless administered with the most extreme caution, and in the most special critical circum- stances. Had my 189 cases of young persons died at the rate even of those in the Glasgow Fever Hospital in 1861 and 1862, the deaths instead of i, would have been 6 or 7,; at the rate of the London Fever Hospital the mortality would have been nearly 12 ; while in the hands of Dr. Todd, under a routine of such extreme stimulation as is indicated in his book on acute diseases, it seems probable that instead of i death in the 189 cases, there must have been no fewer than 30 to 35. Gairdner adds, that he deprecates the excessive use of stimulants, not on account of their tendency to excite the circulation, but because so given they do not support the strength, but rather poison the system, by loading the blood with material which is inconvertible into blood or tissue, and which arrests or interferes with the vital changes necessary to preserve the balance of waste and supply. He is no advocate of depletion or starvation, on the contrary, the whole aim of his practice in fevers tends to supporting the strength. SpAifioir, D.—Cases of Typhoid and Typhus fever, especially loith reference to the condition of the urine.—Med. T. and Gaz., 1864, May 7, 28 ; June 18. Spanton records the details of 6 cases, 3 of which were typhoid and 2 typhus, and gives in tables the figures denoting the 24 hours' amount of urine, the sp. gr., the solids in 1000 grains, the solids in 24 hours, the urea in 1000 grains, and the urea in 24 hours at various periods of the diseases. He also notices the presence of albumen, the acidity, and the colour. The following conclusions, he says, may be derived from the examination of the urine in the cases related. The water is diminished in amount, and this diminution is most marked during the first week. It varied in each of the cases considerably, depending in some degree on the amount of diarrhoea present. The reaction of the urine in every case was acid. The sp. gr. was high in every case, the highest being 1028. In typhus there was throughout a lower sp. gr. than in the cases of typhoid. During convalescence the sp. gr. lowers. Dr. Parkes says this occurs before there is any marked increase in the quantity of w^ater. The urea in every case during the active stage of the fever was much increased. In case i, the greatest increase was during the second week, in case 2 during the first week. It seems as if the largest amount of urea was present relatively and absolutely, while the fever was most severe (whenever that might be) diftering, of course, in different cases, so that no definite rule as to days can be fixed with regard to it. Simon and other authors afiirm that the urea is diminished in amount, but numerous others state the contrary, and there can be48 UEl'OllT OX I'llACTlCAL MKUlCJNi;. little doubt tluit the iuereaso is cousiderable. The hvnitai amouut in one day iu tlie casos of typlioid was .581 gmins, which ibnned more than three iburtlis ol" tlic wliolc solid matter in the urine. The chlorides iu case 5 were altogether absent, and in a patient of Dr. Thompson's they were almost so. A. Vogel, Parkes, and others, attribute this diminution to tlie spare diet, and to the passing off of the chloride in some cases by the bowels and skin. Howitz has advocated tlie same view, aud states that, apart from pneumonia, febrile conditions have no inllueuce on the chloride of sodium. This statement can hardly bo strictly correct, for we find the chlorides absent sometimes in cases of rheumatism without any pneumonia. The spare diet cannot be urged as an argument iu case i, nor can sweating, for the patient took large quantities of nitrogenous food, aud had at the same time a hot, dry skin; moreover, there was very little diarrhoea. Dr. Parkes seems to think that the chlorides may be retained in the system as in pneumonia. The uric acid was increased in every case, being thrown down abun- dantly when acid was added to the urine. The amount was not deter- mined. The sulphates in one case were diminished. It is usual, according to Dr. Parkes, to find them increased. There was in all the cases an increase in the amount of pigment, probably from an increase of normal pigment, as no evidence of any other was obtained. The urates were found largely increased at the time of convalescence in 3 cases, in case 2 before that period. Albumen was present in 2 of the 4 cases of typhoid, and in both the cases of typhus. It occurred in one third of Dr. Parkes' cases. In no case could any casts be found, although the urine was several times carefully examined for them. In a patient of Dr. Thompson's, there were abundant granular and fibrinous casts, but it is probable that the kidney lesion had existed previously. Albumen seems to be far more common and more abundant when pi"e- sent in typhus fever. Its presence appears to be owing to some con- gestion of the kidneys from the existence of some poison in the blood; but whether any peculiar condition of kidney is produced seems uncer- tain. Most probably not, or we should not find the evidences of kidney lesion so transitory in their character. Gull records ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' Aug. 20th) a case of continued fever, which in the early stage appeared to be typhoid, and in the later typhus. "When the patient first came into hospital he had little or no doubt that it was a well-marked case of tyi)hoid. His appearance, his history, the rash, the relaxation of the bowels, the tenderness in the right iliac region—all pointed iu that direction. In order to be sure. Gull marked the spots, and a few days after found they had disap- peared, and instead of a fresh crop of typhoid spots, the skin had a general mottled appearance all over the trunk exactly resembling the typhus rasli. On the right cheek was a bright roseate patch while the left was very pale, an indication according to previous experience of mischief iu the ileum. There were yellow-ochrey motions, low mut- tering delirium, enlargement of the spleen. At tiie post-mortem a small ulcer was found on one arytenoid cartilage, there were marks of recent ]5critonitis, a perforation was found in the intestine, and the49 GEISTEKAL SYSTEM. condition of tlie intestinal glands was such as to indicate that the patient had suffered with typhoid fever about 4 or 5 weeks. In some of the solitarv glands the typhoid deposit appeared to be of a more recent date than that in the rest, which led Dr. Grull to suggest that he might have had a double typhoid. At the same time he observed tliat it was an interesting case, "for not even the post-mortem had made it appear so satisftictory as he anticipated, and if the patient has died of the pri-^ mary attack of typhoid it has occurred at an unusually hate period of the disease. On inquiry being made it appehred that he lived in au ill-drained locality, but no case of typhus fever had occurred in his family nor among liis friends. Typhus however was present in the ward where he lay in tlie hospital. The probability therefore is, that he was approaching towards recovery from typhoid when he caught typhus and died of it. Dr. "NVilks mentioned on the occasion a case of typhoid with characteristic spots and intestinal lesion in which shortly befoi-e death the eruption resembled typhus. The reporter observes that from his observation at the various metropolitan hospitals it is sometimes impossible in the early stage of continued fever to say whether it is typhus or typhoid; for the eruption in the commencement of typhus may so closely resemble in all its characteristics that of typhoid, and unless it is borne in mind that it is the manner of deve- lopment of the spots, and not their appearance to the eye, which esta- blishes the diagnosis between the two fevers, a mistake is not unlikely to be made. l)r. Peacock mentions a case in which the eruption when first seen bore an exact resemblance to the usual appearance of typhoid spots, and it was only by watching the case that the true character of the rash was made apparent. The case turned out to be typhus. Moreover there may be no eruption. This is especially so in children, and in mild cases in adults, or the spots of typhus may be few and dis- crete, or the eruption of typhoid may be so copious tha-t it is impossible to tell whether there are any new spots, or lastly, as above mentioned, the skin may put on a mottled appearance just before death like that of typhus. EussELL, J. B., M.D.—Analysis of 300 cases of Typhus. Glasgow Med. Jour., July, 1864. From Nov. 24, 1863, to April 13, 1864, there were admitted into the fever wards of the Town Hospital, Glasgow, 323 cases of typhus, and 4 of enteric fever. The circumstances under which these cases arose were over-crowding, personal and general filthiness, and poverty. \ Privation however was not a characteristic of these patients. In the great majority of cases, one would have pronounced them persons in the f enjoyment of health, and well nourished. In not above 10 per cent. I were there evident signs of starvation, or even of deficient nutrition. I Over-crowding and want of cleanliness were, however, marked features \ of these cases. The average numbers given as sleeping in one apart- I mcnt, varied from 5 to 15. Occupation did not seem to exercise any I inlluence in predisposing to typhus, excepting in so far as by its nature it subjected the patient for longer or shorter periods to the influence of the poison. Thus the trade of shocmaking furnished quite a remarkable 4 I50 IIEPOIIT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. proportion of the adult male patients, exactly 20 per cent. Contagion was evident or probable in all cases. The invasion of the disease was usually Avell marked by severe constitutional symptoms, as shivering, frontal headache, vertigo, nausea, vomiting, great lassitude, and mental depression. In some cases it supervened gradually. In some cases the rigors returned during the progress of illness ; in more they were followed by other symptoms of nervous irritation ; as universal soreness, muscular and cutaneous hyperiesthesia, so that the slighest touch pro- duced a wince, and any effort to move gave great pain, and caused the patient to cry out. Such cases proved very severe and protracted. In a number of well-marked cases pain or soreness at the nape of the neck formed the most prominent and distressing symptom at the very outset of their illness, and caused the patients to carry their heads much in the same way as those who suffer from caries of the atlas or axis. The eruption presented usually nothing remarkable; in some children it appeared only as a muddiness of skin; in" some patients it resembled very much that of enteric fever, except that it was never noted to appear in successive crops. In 52 cases where special note was made with regard to abdominal symptoms, there were 40 in whom some form or other of pain and tenderness was present in that region ; and the proportion over all the cases was not much short of this. Usually the tenderness was general, but sometimes local, and in that case commonly substernal, and apparently hepatic. The hepatic tenderness was frequently very great, and most intense over the in- sertion of the right rectus. When well marked, there was usually a tendency to looseness, with yellow stools, and the symptoms were relieved by purges of calomel and rhubarb. The blood dyscrasia was one of the most important phenomena. The blood seems to have been very deficient in fibrine, and in one fatal case, where repeated haemor- rhage occurred from a small bruised wound on the shoulder, it was compared to port wine, and showed no disposition to coagulate. Effusions beneath the ocular conjunctiva were frequent. Sometimes the hsemorrhagic tendency manifested itself also in other parts, where its situation gave rise to dangerous or fatal complications. In the muscles it formed large ecchymoses among the disrupted and dis- integrated fibres, or in the cellular tissue between the layers. Or the ecchymosis might be subperitoneal, giving an appearance to the peri- toneum similar to that of the blotched skin. The bronchial membrane and the lungs might be similarly affected, and severe bronchitis, or pneumonia might ensue. The brain was the seat of effusion—in one case on the surface, producing death, with symptoms of cerebral irri- tation and compression ; in another, into one of the ventricles, but slightly. Stagnation of the blood in the cutaneous capillaries pro- duced various shades of lividity, amounting sometimes to deep cyanosis. In severe cases there was permanent staining of the cuticle, or effusion into and beneath the skin, forming large irregular purple blotches, attended in some instances with a great tendency to gangrene under the very slightest pressure. In 3 cases there was much bleeding from gums and lips. In 4 fatal cases urea was detected in the blood. In i case where tlie heart was very flabby, its muscular fibres were found under51 GENERAL SYSTEM. the microscope to be fatty. The cerebral symptoms were very various. A most violent case resembling acute mania began on the 6th day and proved fatal on the loth. The urine was albuminous on admission, and on the day before his death it contained blood and bloody tube-casts. It is worthy of remark, and illustrative of the fact 'that there is often a family resemblance in cases which have originated from one contagious focus, that two brothers were affected with a remarkable form of busy delirium. The general course of the disorder is that of a rise, acme, and decline, but frequently also the rise is not equable, the acme is out of proportion severe in its phenomena, compared with each previous day. There would seem to be a deadly close between the strength of the disease and the strength of the patient's system. The circulation is most commonly affected. There is intense livor over every part of the body ; the countenance looks purple and puffed ; the eruption becomes ecchymosed in large blotches. The mind may be quite clear, and there may be a sense of depression and a fear of coming harm; or there may be delirium restless and violent, or more commonly low and muttering. The pulse is thready, almost imperceptible, and very rapid, 120-170. There may be involuntary evacuations. The paroxysm may be marked by no other lesion than that of the circulation, but it may also be marked, especially if there is any preceding pulmonary complication, by sudden engorgement of the lungs with copious effusion into the lesser bronchi. To pregnant females this paroxysm before crisis would seem to be the most dangerous time. Eight patients in this condition were admitted and % of these aborted, both at this critical period, one with a fatal issue. The fatal case was in the 5th, the other in the 3rd month. The day of crisis was noted in 142 cases, and from the iith to the i6th were the favorite days, the 14th being the most usual. Crisis appeared to occur earlier in the young than in the aged. Of the various complications arising in the course of the disease, the most formidable and fatal was convulsions. There were 5 cases, of which 3 died. In 3 of these cases convulsions were the result of preceding acute or chronic disease of kidneys. In a case_^ of maniacal delirium ending fatally there was acute nephritis; and whenever the urine was observed in any well-marked case, especially with livor and petechise, albumen was to some extent present, but this probably arose rather from the state of the blood than from actual renal disease, which causes the more serious symptoms. Sequelae were serious when they occurred, but they were not frequent. The majority of them might be classified as different manifestations of a tendency to low suppurative inflammation, often in or about glandular structures. When the parotid and submaxillary glands are attacked, the swelhng may in a few hours spread up the cheek, and assume more of a pure erysipelatous appearance with an accompanying blush, sometimes invading the entire scalp, and ending in the formation of abscess and recovery, or death through exhaustion or with symptoms of meningitis. Other sequelffi were ecthyma, laryngitis, croup, sloughing of the pudenda, and gangrene of the toes. The wards in which the patients were lodged were airy, roomy, and well lighted. The treatment consisted in an emetic at first, followed by a dose of calomel and rhubarb. No tympanitis or prostration was in any case observed to result from either; but(52 heport on practical medicine. genei-nlly a tlimiiuition of the fi-oqucncy of tlie p\il6e, a ealmneKS and clearness of intellect, and a diiiiinisliod lividity and greater coolness of the head and face. On tlie morning after admission the patient waa pnt upon a mixture of one of the mineral acids comhined with nitre, or with more stimulant diuretics, as nitrous ether and spirits of juniper. The ingredients were varied to suit the peculiarities of each case". Nitro- muriatic acid and nitre were given to cases with marked hepatic tender- ness and seemed most useful of all. If the blood dyscrasia was severe, with an hajmorrhagic tendency and other typhoid symptoms, muriatic or sulphuric acid was substituted. The addition of a little antimonial or ipecacuanha wine was enough to check bronchitis. "Where the bron- chitis became severe and the lungs engorged with mucus, or where con- gestion or pneumonia were present, nothing was found so serviceable as turpentine in doses of T\\xv—xx 2 dis lioris, with diuretics or with ether. In convulsions the vicarious as well as the derivant action of the bowels by repeated purging with croton-oil seemed the most hope- ful procedure. Graves' combination of tartar emetic and opium in many cases soothed most violent delirium, and indeed acted like a charm. Cases in which there had been great hepatic tenderness were most liable to subsequent torpor of this organ. Bed-sores very seldom occurred, thanks to good nursing and the use of the chloroform-and- gutta-percha solution. The per centage of death from typhus was in all cases ii'2, in adults 16, in cases under 15 years of age 3'8. The per centage of cases successfully treated without stimulants was in all cases 6i'3, in adults 40*7, in patients under 15 years 83'3. The ages of those treated without stimulants to a successful issue ranged as high as 60 years. The average consumption of the 120 who received stimu- lants, was during their (average rather over 3 weeks) residence 46^ oz. of wine and i8 oz. whiskey. With regard to the great question of the day in the treatment oi' fever how far alcoholic stimulants are necessary, these figures alone would prove that Avith a mortality under the average, it is possible to treat over a half of all cases without a drop, and very nearly a half even of those above the age of 15 ; M hile those below it as a rule require none at all. In the children, however, treated by Eussell, the mortality was high though stimulation was not resorted to, but a review of the fatal cases shows that the event was owing not to pure typhus, but to complications or sequelae, which were in their very nature hopeless. There were 4 cases of enteric fever, one of whom a female, 3 months pregnant, aborted, but after a severe struggle recovered. Letick, J. J., M .D.—Miasmatic Typlioid Fever. Amer. Quarterly Jouni. of Med. Sciences, April, i864. After remarking that there is no doubt that specific poisons may co- exist in the system at the same time, Levick notices the opinion of various writers that there is a special antagonism between tlie typhoid fever and the miasmatic (malarious) fever-poisons. He assents to Muicliison's opinion that the facts recorded by these writers, so far from proving an antagonism, rather suggest a similarity of origin of the two fevers, and says he is not sure that they do not prove that tlic one may act as the•53 GliNJiRAIi SYSTEM. tlefcerminiug cause of the other. Be this as it may Levick feels very con- fiileut that the two poisons are often co-operating in the same individual, just as we may have cases of miasmatic fever associated witii pneumonia, with dysentery, and with other diseases. After having been accustomed for many years to treat the ordinary form of typhoid lever, his attention was arrested in the early part of last year by the occurrence of a series of cases which, while presenting the ordinary phenomena of typhoid fever, had superadded to these many of the symptoms of well-marked miasmatic remittent fever. These cases were cliaracterised by the suddenness of the attack, by the intense pain in the head and back of the neck, by the regular periodical remission and exacerbation of the fever, and by its amenability to quina. That these were cases of typhoid fever was shown by the fact that in every instance, even in the mildest, was found the characteristic eruption. That there was disease of Peyer's glands was inferable from the fact that diarrhoea was present in every case, or was readily produced by small doses of cathartic medicine. In some of these cases the attack was gradual, a sort of imperfectly developed stage existing for a week or longer ; the patient able to move about but with a little diarrhoea; pretty well in the morning, but with severe headache and some fever every evening, with restless uncomfortable nights. In other instances the attack began suddenl^^ with a chilliness and intense splitting pain in the head unlike the headache of typhoid fever, which is dull and lieavy. A slight cough with the usual bronchitic rales was noticed in nearly all the cases referred to. The paroxysmal character was strongly developed in all, a marked exacerbation occurring in the evening, the fever passing off towards morning, and the apyrexia ushered in with as profuse sweating as is witnessed in the most decided eases of malarious fever. This exacerbation and remission bear no resemblance to the partial subsidence which occurs in ordinary typhoid fever. Severe headache, described as splitting, battering, was one of the most constant and dis- tressing symptoms, though generally associated with it were intense pains in the back of the neck, and the muscles between the shoulders, and in some instances universal achings. The tongiie was generally yellowish- white, and never became dry and brown. The pulse was rarely above go, was soft, and not alarmingly feeble. There was no great tympanitis. The mental condition of these patients was unlike that of ordinary typhoid fever, they had no dulness or hebetude, and no well-marked delirium. The administration of quina seemed to arrest the malarious element of the fever, but to leave the enteric-fever element unaffected, so that the case then proceeded in the usual way of typhoid. Later in 1862 Levick had under his charge 27 eases of fever of a much severer kind, some presenting the symptoms of pernicious congestive remittent, and some strongly-marked typhous symptoms. Towards the close of his paper Levick remarks "there can be no doubt that-there exists at the present time in Pennsyl- vania and its vicinity a strongly developed miasmatic inlluence. It show.s itself not merely in its familiar garb of inter- and re-mittent fevers, but attaches itself to almost every other disease, if not lending its full livejy, at least casting its mantle upon them.54 EEPOUT ON PHACTICAL MEDICINE. EoGEB.—On the sligld form of Scarlatina and Scarlatinal JDropsij. Edin. Med. Journ., Aug.; Journ, do Med. and de Chir. pratiq. There liavo been lately in the Hopital des Enfants Malades a great many cases of what Roger calls " searlatinettes." They were cases of scarlatina extremely slight, so fugacious, that the characters of scarlatina passed unobserved. Nevertheless, the disease of which the external manifestations were so slight was still present, and if the patients, apparently in good health, and recovered from a seemingly trivial erup- tion, were exposed to cold, hajmaturia or dropsy, sometimes fatal, made their appearance. In one case an impression of fear appeared to play the part of exposure to cold, and produced anasarca in a girl a;t. 4, who her parents declared had escaped from the scarlatina her sister had had, but who really had had the disease so slightly that even maternal solicitude Lad not detected its existence. After enumerating the distinctions whicli M. Almeras points out between scarlatina and various imitative exanthe- mata. Koger proceeds to caution that as the points of resemblance between them are numerous, and as in times of epidemic it is very diffi- cult to distinguish them, it is prudent when any doubt exists to act as if the disease were scarlatina, and to make children keep to their bedroom for at least 14 days if they have presented any trace of an equivocal eruption. Tliese little characterised forms merit serious attention, because they are as much, if not more likely than the others, to be followed hy one of the most formidable accidents of scarlatina—dropsy with albuminuria. Eoger does not admit that anasarca may occur during the whole period of des- quamation ; he thinks that the patients who have been attacked with it at a later period than that indicated above (3 weeks), had a chronic Bright's disease connected with a persistent scarlatinal albuminuria, or an acute Bright's disease independent of scarlatina, which is not very rare among children. Among the precursors of anasarca vomiting should be noted. If between the loth and 20th days of scarlatina a child becomes a little feverish and vomits, we may apprehend anasarca; the latter generally appears the next or the following day, and is characterised by a deceitful appearance of stoutness. In half the cases the dropsy remains external, in the other half you have internal effusions. So long as there is only abdominal dropsy matters are not very serious, but it is different when serum accumulates in the pleura, for as the effusion is generally double, and the pulmonary substanCe is infiltrated extreme embarrassment of breathing is the result. To this dropsy oedema of the glottis is some- times added, for which it is necessary to perform tracheotomj-. But of all effusions the most dangerous is the encephalic, which may assume the comatose, the paralytic, or the convulsive form. With regard to the effusions which occur under these circumstances Roger says that, though the prognosis is very grave, the patients who manifest them re- cover in the proportion of one third. The curative treatment will vary according to the form of dropsy. If it is febrile, active, if the tissues affected arc of a rosy colour, if the skin be hot, sanguineous emissions arc indicated. This is still more the case if there is oedema of the lungs. Bleeding then gives manifest relief; bleeding from the arm is preferable to leeches or cupping, which may produce erythema or erysipelas. If there are cerebral symptoms we may apply leeches to the mastoid pro-55 GENERAL SYSTEM. cesses, and blisters to the thighs or nape of the neck; then we administer hydragogues, and give nitre in doses of .30 to 120 grains in 24 hoars. DOTVX, J. L.—On the treatment of Scarlet Fever hy sesquicarlonate of ammonia. Clin. Lect. and reports of London Hospital, 1864, p. 159. In the space of 5 weeks, 192 persons out of a population of 440 at the Idiot's Asylum were attacked. There were 6^^ cases of the simple, 78 of the anginose, and 49 of the malignant variety. _ The treatment adopted in every case was the administration of 5 grains of sesquicar- bonate of ammonia in .5] of water 4.fis horis. The diet was milk and beef-tea, while wine was liberally given in all cases in which great de- pression was manifested. JSTine of the 10 deaths occurred among the idiots. No pain was caused by the ammonia even when the throat was ulcerated, fourteen of the malignant cases occurred among the 45 officers and servants, but there was only one death, and this was in the case of an ailing man with a crippled heart. Dropsy with albuminuria occurred as a sequela in 12 instances. Gibson, W.—Experience and treatment of Biplitheria in Camplelton and neigliboii/rliood. Glasgow Med. J., Jan. 1864. Beidger, J.—Diphtheria toith notes of post-mortem appearances in 24 cases, Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 22. Since April, 1862, upward of 3000 cases have fallen under Bridger's care ; very many of them relapses. He describes particularly a certain condition of the auriculo-ventricular valves of the heart, seen in every case where an examination was allowed, whether complicated with any other disease or not, and, as he thinks, not previously made known. It is a roughened, reddened appearance of the valves, as if by interstitial deposit, situated midway between the insertion around the ventricular opening, and its attachment to the cordac tendine£e ; one or both valves being aifected, more or less, according to the severity of the case and the time elapsing between the symptoms of heart-alFection and death. The symptoms denoting this affection of the heart may come on early or late, generally late, several cases having occurred where, to all appear- ances, the patient has been well. It is ushered in, and may be dia- gnosed by tlie following symptoms :—an anxious countenance; hurried respiration; a rapid pulse from 120 to 170; tenderness over the pre- cordial region; scarcely any pain, excepting on pressure. In 4 cases there was a slight murmur at the apex of the heart; in 2 of these it subsided in a week ; in 1 remained permanent for some months, and I case is now luider treatment. Tlie duration of the urgent symptoms varies from 3 to 7 days. The heart affection has occurred in at least 100 cases, and in some it came on so severely, that the symptoms were more like collapse, with cold clammy perspirations, and required the immediate administration of diffusible stimulants very frequently repeated^ 156 HEl'OllT ON I'JtACTICAL MlilJlClNK, llOTir, Pr.—Statistics of acute Bhcumatism. Wiirzb. Med. Ztschr. vol. 4, p. 277, 186.3 ; Schmidt's .lahrb., vol. 122, p. J87. Eoth observed 79 cases at Wi'irzburg in the ,3 years Irom 18'37 to i860, forming 1-5 per ceut. of all tiic cases of internal disease treated there during this period. The months in which tlie disease was most preva- lent were Api-il, May, and October, while the reverse was the case in .Tauuary and .Inly. Taking tlio separate years, however, the mouths did not show the same order as regards frequency of the disease, and the total number occurring in different years was very various, being .34, 25, and 20. Eoth is therefore inclined to believe in the epidemic prevalence of the disorder. Three of tlie 79 patients died, 2 of pleuro- pneumonia. Complications existed in one 'third of all the cases. Cardiac were the most frequent, and next pulmonary. Among the 15 cardiac there were 5 of pericarditis, 6 of endocarditis, and 4 of endo- pericarditis. lu the matter of treatment there is little to be noted except that lemon-juice appeared quickly to diminish the pains. Law, R.—On the treatment of Acute Rheumatism. Dublin Quart. Jouru. of Med. Sci., May, 1864. Law affirms that he has given a fair trial to every other method of treating the disease, viz., tlie alkaline treatment, the citric acid, the free exhibition of opium, the treatment with colchicum alone, and that with bark and the hydriodate of potash, and none has approached the plan he advocated nearly 20 years ago, in the shortness of time it has required to effect a cure, nor has any been more certain in its results. Law's plan consists in bleeding once, very rarely twice, and in the exhibition of colchicum. Tlie V. S. almost never exceeds 3viij, and the dose of colchicum is about gr. j, of the acetous extract .3 or 4 times daily. He has generally observed, that when the pericardium or endo- cardium is about to be affected, there is, in general, previously, an excited action of the organ, in which case he adds digitalis either to the mixture or pill. If pericarditis or endocarditis actually occurs, he combines calomel with colchicum, opium, and digitalis. KoBEETON, J.—Brit. Med. Jour., June 18. Eoberton advises in the treatment of acute rheumatism a dose of calomel and opium, followed by free purgation with colchicum and salines, and after this the administration of powdered cinchona bark with quinine, about 60 grains of the former, and gr. iss of the latter being given every third hour. Lemon-juice with water may be taken freely as a beverage, and the joints are to be wrapped up in dry cotton wool. In cases where there is much pain, opium may have to be given every night. He prescribes all moist applications. AVhcn the patient has been seen early and treated in the above matter, Roberton has not known during 30 years the heart to be affected in a single instance. Hf.iibeet Davies, M.D.—On the treatment of BJieumatic Fever in its acute stage, exchisiveli/ hi/ free hlistering. Clin. Lect. and Eeports of London Hospital, 1864, p. 293. Davies believes in the existence in this disease of a maieries intensely acid in its nature, and liighly irritating to the synovial and fibrous57 GENERAL SYSTEM. tissues. Eegavding it as probable that tbe virus localised itself for a time in the "inflamed joints, and that the intensity of the local inflam- mations was a measure to some extent of the amount of poison collected by a species of affinity in the parts attacked. Davies determined to attempt the local elimination of the materies morbi, wherever any external manifestations of its presence existed. He ordered blisters varying in width, but of considerable size, according to the locality, to be applied around each limb, and in close proximity to the parts inflamed, and he hoped to relieve the affected joints partly on the principle of derivation, but mainli/ and really by affording through the serous discharge from the blistered surface a ready means of exit for the animal poison. Armlets, wristlets, thighlets, leglets, or even fingerlets were applied near to, but not upon, every joint inflamed, at the very Tje?^/*^ of the inflammatory stage when the local pains were the most severe, and the constitutional dis- turbance the greatest. The success of the plan depends entirely on the blisters being well applied and allowed to remain until they have thoroughly acted. There is no fear of strangury supervening. Linseed poultices subsequently applied, arc highly serviceable in promoting a sufficient flow of serum. The effect of the blister is to reduce the pulse in force and frequenc}^ and to render the urine alkaline, or neutral, while the heart is exempted from inflammatory mischief. In no case where the heart was sound at the time of admission, did any organic lesion subse- quently develop itself; and in two cases in which soft but distinct mitral murmur was audible, when the patient came under treatment evei'y trace of the sound rapidly disappeared as soon as free and abundant serous discharge had been established. Tables are given of various particulars in 13 cases. Sutton, M.D.—Clinical remarks on cases of ohscure forms of M/ieimatio Fever. Med. Tim. and Gaz., July 2. Sutton relates a case in which the pericarditis preceded the usual rheumatic symptoms by 5 days, and the indica,tions of acute rheumatism were so slight and of such short duration, that they might have been easily overlooked. There was in fact no pain, swelling, or tenderness on pressure in any joint. Chomel, Graves, and other observers have noticed the existence of acute rheumatism without any arthritic symp- toms. Considering these foots. Dr. Sutton asked, is it not probable that we often overlook cases of acute rheumatism, because we only inquire after the leading symptoms of the disease ? He mentioned that he re- membered seeing a young girl who was supposed to have caught cold from sitting in a draught, while she was perspiring. She felt chilly; next day complained of languor, headache, nausea; skin did not feel hot to the hand but very moist, in the night sweated very much, the per- spiration smelled faint, she ached all over. The heart was carefully examined, but nothing particular was observed, excepting that the visible impulse was unusually well marked, and the first sound just above the nipple appeared prolonged. In 3 or 4 days all these symptoms had sub- sided, leaving her simply weak. Six mouths afterwards, Sutton had occasion to examine her chest again, when he heard a systolic murmur over the apex of the heart, which was conducted towards the ano-le of the58 BEPOBT ON PKACTICAL MEDICINK. left scapula ; no bruit was heart! over the base. No history ol any illness subsequent to the one described. The question is, was tliat so-called " cold " not a case of rheumatic fever ? Was there not latent pericarditis, endocarditis, or both ? The subsequent discovery that there was an im- perfect mitral closure, was presumptive evidence in favour of its being so. However, the great interest attaclied to such cases is not whether there was pericarditis, and in consequence an adherent pericardium, but what is of fixr more importance, was this pericarditis of rheumatic origin ? How would it be likely to affect the future prospects of tlie patient ? On this subject, the statistical labours of Dr. IBarclay tend to show that when a person has had rheumatic fever and pericarditis, they are liable to suffer with endocarditis, even though the usual symptoms of rheumatism should not again show themselves. Dr. Sutton urges, that wherever there is fibrous or fibro-serous tissue, there is a seat for rheumatic inflammation. Thus it may attack the sheath of a sensitive nerve, producing severe neuralgia, or it may so impair the functions of a motor nerve that the parts supplied by it are paralysed. He records a case from the hospital experience of Dr. Gull, of paralysis of the left side of the face, which was associated at first with sour perspirations, flying pains, and languor, and after 3 weeks, with well-marked rheumatic symptoms, while the paralysis gradually diminished. The cause of the disorder was exposure to cold and wet. Dr. Sutton concluded by saying, that he found great assistance in diagnosing such obscure cases, from taking into consideration the temperament of the patient. Persons of the nervous and nervo-sanguine temperament, are the most liable to this disease; those of the bilious the least so. We must form our diagnosis of the diathesis from the bodilj^ conformation and functional disturbances, and not conclude that a person has not the rheumatic diathesis because he has never had actual rheu- matism. For the supervention of the disease depends on the diathesis being developed into a disease by accidental causes. Now as to the relation of these causes to the attack. A large number of the patients have an hereditary history of rheumatic fever, but a still larger deny that there is any rheumatic affection in the family. In making this inquiry, it should not be forgotten that the law of hereditament appears to be, that parents transmit a teridency, not to a given disease, but to degene- ration of a given class of iissties. Probably the parents have never had the disease, but one or both of them have suffered from impaired nutri- tion, and in consequence degeneration of certain tissues; the off^spring may have the mucous, the vascular, or the fibroid diathesis, depending on which of the great class of tissues of the embryo this tendency to degene- ration has been inflicted. For example, in a case of phthisis, there may be no family history of consumption, but there may be a history that the patient's father followed a certain occupation which tended to deteriorate his bodily vigour, or that his habits were such as gave rise to imperfect functional activity, or disordered nutrition of the lungs. In a case of gout, there was often no hereditary history of that disease, but frequently of abuse of alcohol in the patient's father. In acute rheumatism, similar inquiry generally shows either that one or both parents have liad rheu- matic fever, or a sister disease, such as rheumatic gout, or that the father has drank hard; or lastly, it is not uncommon to hear that the parents i59 GENEUAL SYSTEM. were remarkably healthy, and lived to a good old age, and theu- parents before tliem; that the patient never had a day's illness until his present attack, but that he himself had been very intemperate. Here farther inquiry leads to the discovery that the parent or parents had a flond complexion and also other signs that show the arthritic diathesis, although they had not had actual rheumatism. Here the diathesis is transmitted, the tendency to degeneration of the vascular or fibrous tissues is aggra- vated by the excessive use of alcohol, and the actual acute rheumatism is brought to life by the accidental occurrence of sleeping in a damp bed, or other such cause. Sutton remarked that Dr. Laycock had especially called attention to such principles as the above. Regard.—On tJie treatment of Tendinous Bheumatism ly the external employment of Sulpliur. L'Union Medicale, April 21st, 186,3. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eev., Jan., 1864. Eenard, who was himself the patient, suffered from this complaint after an attack of acute rheumatism, for which he was copiously bled. The parts affected were the tendons of the hamstring muscles, and no improvement resulted after a long course of diaphoretics, camphor, tere- binthinate, and other liniments, and the administration of the solanaceae. After dusting the inside of his stockings with common sulphur, he was speedily relieved. Under the influence of the contact of the flowers of brimstone the skin became hotter, slightly excited, and more disposed to sweating ; and as soon as this effect was produced, the relief of the pain seemed to be immediately marked. Fuller, H. W., M.D.—Clinical lecture on Sciatica. Lancet, April 16. Fuller illustrates by cases the different character of sciatica according as it is of rheumatic or neuralgic origin. Alkalies, pot. iod., and guaiacum, are efficient in the .former, quinine, iron, and aconite in the latter. He relates one case in which gr. xv of Dover's powder 0. n., with guaiacum and sulphur his die, produced no good effect, but which was immediately cured by the subcutaneous injection of morphia gr. ^. Such a result is exceptional, the injection requiring to be repeated twice or thrice in nnost instances. Fuller remarks that in this as in other instances tlie successful issue of the treatment depends upon its adaptation to the exigencies of the case. In sciatica, referable to local mischief, or to gout, rheumatism, or other distempered conditions of the blood, the use of morphia or other sedatives can only be palliative not curative. The cause of irritation must be got rid of by appropriate remedies before se- datives can prove effectual. But when the disease consists essentially of irritation of the nerve, and is independent of local disease and of general systemic derangement, the result of the administration of sedatives is most satisfactory. On the other hand blisters, issues, and other local irritants and derivatives which are often employed in these cases under the mistaken idea of the pain being referable to local inflammation, are useless, nay, positively mischievous. Nicholson, E. (Madras Quart. .Tourn., July, 1863), states that in intermittent fever there is a great increase in the water, the urea, and the chloride of sodium of the urine. Daring the cold and hot stao-es the60 IIEPOIIT ON I'RACTICAL lIliDlClNE. urea is nearly doubled, and the chloride of sodium quintupled, Tiie increase of urea is common to all febrile diseases. The points in which Nicholson lays most stress are the disappearance of uric acid during the whole of the fever day, and tlio diminution during tlie same period of tlie phosphoric acid to one cujhlh of its normal amount. ] Ee adds, " proceeding as phosphoric acid does from the metamorphosis of nervous tissue, does not its diminution in the urine of ague show that the disease is charac- terised by a depression amounting nearly to paralysis of some parts of the nervous system?" BiDWELL.—The Tonrjuc in Ilalarious Disease. Erit. Med. Journ., April 23, i864._ _ In the condition of the tongue referred to the under surface appears to have trespassed upon the upper, the papilUe of tlic latter being supplanted by the transverse rugiu of the former. The sides are thickened and rounded, the normal well defined edge being obliterated, and the line of demarcation moved to nearer the mesial line. This ajipearanco of the sides may be associated with any and every possible appearance of the remaining papillary surface. When it exists it is a sure indication that quinine is requisite, but this remedy need not be continued until tliis state of the tongue disappears, TtJRXEB, A. P., M.D.—Ohservations of 100 cases of Intermittent Fever in which the Sulphate of Cinehonia xvas v.sed as a substitute for Quinia. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sciences, April, 1864. Turner concludes that an extensive use of both substances justifies the statement that in slightly larger doses cinehonia is equal as an antiperiodic to quinia; so much so, that in private practice where either can be pro- cured, he orders the former with as much assurance of success as if the latter were used. It is more soluble, tends less to derange the gastric functions, begets less of the malaise, the cephalic symptoms are less violent and enduring, and it is not followed by any special unpleasant effect more than is observed to ensue after use of quinia, and it may be administered in all cases and under all circumstances where this substance is indicated. Mellee, C. J.—On, the Fever of East Central Africa. Lancet, Oct. 22, Nov. 5, 1864. A valuable paper for reference. Haee.— On the treatment of Malarious Fever. Med. Tim. and Gaz., Nov. 5, 12, 19, 26, Dec. 3, 10, 17, 24. The author claims to have clearly ascertained that all the Calcutta fevers are malarious, and are all curable by quinine, the disease being checked in 24 hours, and finally removed in 48. _ He gives gr. xxx at the commencement of the treatment, and gr. xx at intervals of not less than 3 hours, until cinchonism is produced. He claims to have treated 6982 i'ever patients, with only 4 deaths in every 845 cases. In a trial made in one of the Calcutta hospitals 292 cases were treated on a regular plan of giving quinine solely, with the result of only 2 deaths. In cases where there is much irritability of stomach, Hare acknowledges the goodGENERAL SYSTEM. 61 effect of giving calomel in full (gr. xx) doses ; this subdues the vomiting, and enables the stomach to retain the quinine. With respect to diet he does not offer or prescribe food for a young soldier just attacked with fever for the first day or two; but if a patient is sent to him who has had fever for a week or more, he regards him as starving, though he may have no appetite, and may even loathe food, and persistently makes him swallow small quantities of soup, arrowroot, and milk, and if he has been a spirit-drinker, or even a free liver, he gives him wine or spirit. What he desires to impress on his readers is, that malarious fever is not an in- flammatory disease, but the direct contrary, and requires no depletion by bleeding or purgatives, and that the congestion of the liver, &e., which appear in fever, and the morbid secretions thence arising, are best cured by early and large doses of quinine, under the use of which the con- gestions disperse, and with them the morbid secretions. Also that we can support the strength of the patient without danger by proper food and nourishment. Compare with this a pamphlet by Dr. Macpherson. Mackay, a. E., M.D.—On M-i/sipelas. Edin. Med. Journ., Feb., 1864. Mackay recognises this disease as essentially contagious, but further as a diathesis, certain persons being so prone to it, that it becomes in them a peculiarity of constitution. For a period of about 9 mouths, when Mackay had the medical charge of H.M.S. Marlborough, cruising in the Mediterranean, a succession of cases of erysipelas occurred on board. The intervals between these were so filled up with cases of erythema, and latterly with cases of a somewhat peculiar form of cynanche, that the chain of disease was kept tolerably complete throughout. The whole of the ship was most carefully examined, but no local source of disease could be detected. Mackay refers the fi-equency of the seizures to marked proclivity to the disease on the part of some of those affected, certain atmospheric conditions, and contagion. Chaecot, J. M.—On the influence of Saturnine Poisoning on the deve- lopment of Oout. Gaz. Hebd., 10, 27, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 121, p. 171. Charcot confirms Garrod's observations. He gives a case at some length in which gouty disorder with local deposits of urates was very marked without there being any hereditary predisposition, or anything in the mode of life to produce it except the occurrence of repeated attacks of load colic. Ho states that of 20 patients who came under his notice for the results of inveterate lead-poisoning 7 had previously suffered from attacks of gout. In 3 of these the serum was examined for uric acid, but none was detected. Makkham, W. 0., M.D.—T/ic tises of Bloodletting in Disease. Brit.- Med. Journ., Apr. 2nd, 9th, i6th, 23rd, 30th, May 7th. Lakceheaux.—»%7n7t^ec lesions of Internal Viscera. Brit. Med. Journ. April 23rd, 1864; Gaz. d. Hop., March 17th, J864. ' Lancereaux says the lesions produced in the viscera by syphilis present in general sufficiently well-defined characters to allow of their cause beino- specified. They may be grouped under the following forms:—(i) Intei°UEPOUT ON phactical medicine. 63 stitial inflammation ; (2) Gummata or tumours; (3) Cicatrices. Tliose organs, such as tlio liver and testis, which abound in parenchyma, are most liable to the first named of these forms. Xew elements (nuclei, cells, and fibres of connective tissue), are developed in the meshes of the organ, producing enlargement and ultimately contraction and atrophy. When this takes place the surface of the above-named glands presents furrows and depressions of greater or less depth, giving a characteristic appearance to the organ. In the liver we find lobular cirrhosis, i. c. cirrhosc h gros grains as M. Lancereaux calls it—a state very different from the granular induration of drunkards, or cirrliose a pelita grains. The inflammatory form is less distinct in the other viscera, as the brain, kidneys, lungs, and heart, and is also more difficult of recognition—that is when one organ alone is apparently aflected. In these organs it mani- fests the characters of cerebral induration or softening, of interstitial nephritis, or of chronic pneumonia or carditis. The second form of vis- ceral syphilis is characterised by the presence of tumours varying in size from a pea to a haricot bean, and generally termed gummata. They may be firm or soft in consistence, and of a gray, whitish, or yellowish colour, according to their age, and to the relative proportions of their histological elements. They are ordinaiily surrounded by a dense grayish vascular fibrous tissue, very resistent to the finger; this forms a kind of cyst, from which they may sometimes be enucleated, and its presence is often a suf- ficient guide in distinguishing these tumours from tubercle, cancer, and most other non-syphilitic new formations. Gummata in their early stage are constituted of the embryonic elements of connective tissue. Having arrived at a more or less complete degree of development, they undergo a retrograde or fatty change. They may be spontaneously absorbed. This termination is doubtless favorable; but traces of the presence of the tumours may be left in the form of cystoid membranes (in the brain), fibrous bands, or cicatrices (in the liver). In some cases the tumours undergo calcareous transformation. Syphilitic gummata are readily dis- tinguished from cancer, and from fibrous or fibro-plastic tumours, by the small amount or absence of vascularity, and by their situation; but they are very easily confounded with tuberculous or scrofulous deposits, vas- cular atheromata, and deposits arising from glanders or farcy. Their nature, however, may be determined by a consideration of the characters already described, and by a careful consideration of all the organs, and of the liver in particular. The formation of cicatrices is in reality only one of the modes of termination of the preceding forms of syphilitic lesion. It is characterised by the presence on the surface of the organs of one or more furrows, or more or less deep depressions; and by fibrous bands in the interior. Of these lesions, the first—furrows and depressions—arc distinguished from the atrophy consecutive on obliteration of the vessels by the presence of a fibrous cyst at the depressed part, and by their having no relation, as regards situation, to the distribution of the vessels. From cicatrices left after wounds they are distinguished by the absence of the colouring matter of the blood. The fibrous bands in the interior of organs are distinguished from absorbed and cicatrized purulent deposits by their numbers as well as by the absence of purulent detritus in tlie neighbourhood. In the vascular glands hypertrophy sometimes occurs,GENEBAL SYSTEM. 63 with or without alteration of the elements of the organ. In 24 cases Lancereaux found hypertrophy of the spleen in 10, of the mesenteric glands in 10, of the thyroid body in 4, and of the suprarenal capsules in 2. In some cases he has found hypertrophy of the follicles at the base of the tongue, and of the pharynx and tonsils. This lesion of the glands is generally accompanied by modifications in the blood and by cachexia. Fatty, amyloid, lardaceous or fatty degeneration of organs, especially of the liver or kidneys, were found in several cases, but Lancereaux is not disposed to regard them, like the lesions already described, as the direct results of the syphilitic infection. From his examination of individual organs, Lancereaux has arrived at the following results. In the liver he found interstitial hepatitis or cirrhosis in 3 cases ; gummata without cica- trices in I; cicatrices without tumours in 7 ; cicatrices of the surface of the liver with gummata in the substance of the organs in 9. In most of the cases the liver had also become adherent to the diaphragm or to the neighbouring viscera ; but perihepatitis was never found independently of the other appearances described. In the kidneys, among 24 cases, there was interstitial nephritis in 3, the same with waxy degeneration in 2, small tumours disseminated through the renal parenchj'ma in i, cicatrices on the surface with atrophy in .2. The testes were affected in 3 cases. In I there were gummatous masses in both testicles, producing enlarge- ment ; the proper glandular tissue had entirely disappeared. In another there were gummatous deposits in one testicle, and interstitial orchitis in the other; and in the third there was periorchitis. In some other cases atrophy of the testicles appeared to be the result of syphilis. Similar changes were also found in the ovaries. In the brain old gummatous tumours having partly undergone fatty transformation were found in 2 cases. In i case a cyst-like membrane with numerous partitions occupied the greater part of the right anterior lobe. Cicatrices on the surface of one of the convolutions, and a cicatricial fibrous band between, the gray and the white substances were present in one case. In one instance there was amyloid degeneration of the pia mater and softening of the pons Varolii. The lungs presented in 2 cases chronic pneumonia, and deep cavities with smooth regular walls; gummatous deposits in 3 cases; and superficial cicatrices in i. There were narrowing and dilatation of the bronchi in 2 instances; cicatrices and ulcerations of the pharynx (larynx?) in several, and ulceration of the bronchi in i case. The heart presented in 2 cases gummatous tumours disseminated among a fibrous tissue, together with alteration or disappearance of most of the muscular struc- ture of the organ. In i case there was simple myocarditis; and in 2 lar- daceous degeneration. In several instances rapid or sudden death had arisen from the cardiac lesion. The functional disturbances produced by syphilitic lesions of internal organs have no specific character. Each organ manifests its lesion by disturbance of its proper functions; and hence the symptoms proper to these affections vary not only with the organ affected, but with the seat and extent of the morbid change. The •elements of diagnosis must therefore be sought for in the presence or pre- vious existence of the internal manifestations of syphilis, and in the ante- cedents of the patient. It is well in any case to take into consideration the age and other etiological circumstances; to examine most carefullyREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE, 64 the liver, which is most frequently affected ; and to note the state of the kidneys, the presence of syphilitic disease in which often produces albu- men in the urine. Tlie simultaneous disease of several viscera is worthy of attentive consideration ; but the special foundation for diagnosis is, together with the period (tertiary) at which tlie symptoms appear, and the peculiar progress of the numerous manifestations of visceral syphilis, the special cachexia by which these are almost always accompanied. In general the prognosis of syphilitic disease of the viscera is to be regarded as serious in proportion to the importance of the organ or organs affected. Specific treatment, consisting of mercury and iodide of potassium, h:is often been found by M. Lancereaux, when used in proper circum- stances, to remove rapidly serious symptoms, even when threatening a speedy fatal termination. This treatment is useful for syphilitic inflam- mation and tumours, but has no effect on cicatrices. It must not be for- gotten that the prolonged use of these remedial agents is demanded. In this way we may best obviate the tendency to a recurrence of the disease. Chabrtek.—On JSereditary Syphilis. Arch. Gen., Sept. 1862 ; Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 124, p. 180. Charrier's conclusions are as follows, (i) If a child is born syphilitic, or becomes so in the course of the first year without direct infection, it is absolutely certain that the mother is or was syphilitic. (2) A syphilitic fiither, in whatever period of the disease he may be, never communicates syphilis by procreation to his child unless the mother is infected. (3) The hereditai-y communication of syphilis by the male parent is not yet proved; the mother must be the subject of the disease if the child is born syphilitic. Marowski, L.— On the social relations of Si/jMUs. Deutsche Klinik, 5, 6, 8-IO, 12, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 121, p. 309. The author's experience leads him to the following conclusions :—(i) Either father or mother who have suffered from general syphilis may beget completely healthy children, even when their malady is not completely cured, and relapses subsequently occur. (2) It is nevertheless very probable that the children of such parents receive a certain morbid predisposition, e.q. to scrofulosis, hydrocephalus, pulmonary phthisis. (3) When botli parents have suffered from general syphilis the probability is considerably diminished that their children will be quite healthy, though the possibdity of it cannot be denied. (4) There is no ground for interdictmg the legal marriage of persons who have suffered from syphilis, though the public should be made acquainted with the possible consequences of such a step and measures should be indicated which may serve to protect their children from inheriting the disorder. (5) Mercurial treatment durin- Di-egnancy has not always any injurious influence on the development ot the embryo nor does it even when fully carried out necessardy induce either miscarriage or premature labour, the occurrence of which is rather to be ascribed to the syphilitic dyscrasia. (6) The milk of a mother who has had syphilis and lias been restored by mercurial treatment is no necessarily injurious to children, it is therefore better that a child affected with hereditary svphilis should be suckled or artificially fed by its motliei than by a healthy nurse. The author offers an hypothesis to the effectGENERAL SYSTEM. G5 that syphilis is transmitted to the children only by those parents who have some, though perhaps insignificant syphilitic affection of the testes or ovaries. jACKSCK.—Si/pJiilis of interned on/ans. Prag. Med. Wochnschi-., 1-7, 1864. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. "132, p. 298. Jacksch lays down the following as the characteristics of syphilitic organic lesions :—(i) They exist in the absence of the causes which usually give rise to such conditions. (2) They exist in combination with other morbid phenomena which are looked upon as specific. (3) They appear at a determinate period of the general disease. (4) They exhibit in their form, course, and duration the specific character. (5) There is an analogy between them and other morbid phenomena belonging to the same diathesis. (6) Antisyphilitic treatment acts beneficially upon them, while all other is ineffectual. (7) The material alterations, and the symptoms dependent upon them present certain peculiarities characteristic of the syphilitic process. The natural tendency of the syphilitic product is to active growth, but this process is of an unproductive character, either forming atrophying cicatrices, or leading to a fattily degenerating cell- growth. The gummatous tumour is most characteristic. Actual in- flammation only occurs in the vicinity of the morbid process, and fever is rarel}' present in syphilitic disease of internal organs. Such internal affections are by no means rare; Treitz met with them in 2 per cent, of all post-mortem examinations. The prognosis is in general not un- favorable if the disorder is early recognised and judiciously treated. In cerebral syphilis Jacksch has, unlike other authors, found material altera- tions in all his cases, but they are sometimes very slight. Syphilitic products in the brain are essentially to be regarded as new formations, which themselves undergo various changes, and induce the same in their vicinity. The most ordinary is transformation into a cicatricial, contract- ing substance adherent to the surrounding parts. The brain-substance at the diseased spot has generally disappeared, and is replaced by callous knots, less frequently by patches of softening, and still more rarely by cysts. The gummatous tumour is observed in its various metamorphoses in all parts of the brain and of its membranes, several of them may exist in the same brain. It is less usual for the brain to become secondarily affected from disease of the cranial bones. The cerebral nerves may be injured at their origins, or in their passage through the membranes, or by pressure on their trunks, or by disease of their own tissue. There is nothing peculiar in the symptoms of syphilitic cerebral disease. The mental disorders resulting from syphiHs are interesting, both those which are jjermanent, and those which are temporary. From 45 cases of the ' former, 6 of them his own, Jacksch has drawn up the following descrip- tion. They appear either as loss of memory and of imagination, or as melancholy passing into idiocy or into general paralysis, or as mania with tlic same results, or as delusions, or as primary paralytic idiocy, or as mere loss of consciousness. Of the 45 cases 26 recovered, 3 were im- proved, 2 remained unimproved, and 14 died. In the favorable cases the mental disease had lasted for the most part only some weeks or months, only in one instance more than 2 years. Araonrr the cases DREPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 66 ending fatally were paralytic idiocy, mania/melancholia with idiocy, idiocy without paralysis, and loss of consciousness with refusal of nourishment. Autopsies were made in all the 14 cases, and lesions were generally found in tlie cerebral membranes and in the cortical substance; the former were thickened, and adherent with the latter. The brain tissue was softened both at the periphery and the centre. The same symptoms were not always associated with the same lesions. Tiie other organs which were most frequently diseased were the cranial bones and the liver. The age of the syphilitic patients with mental disorder was usually that of adult manhood, and the majority of them were males. Between the appearance of the mental disorder and the primary affection there occurred an in- terval varying from 2 to 20 years. The primary symptom was usually a chancre, in two of Jacksch's cases it was of phagedajuic character. As a rule antisyphilitic remedies of various kinds had been administered ou account of the general symptoms, but often nothing had been given. The mental disorder was almost constantly preceded immediately by severe headache which lasted weeks and months, and was specially in- tolerable at night; the two often existed together. In 21 cases it was followed by hemiplegia which almost always came on gradually and was either complete or incomplete. Individual cerebral nerves were previously or simultaneously paralysed. In the further progress of the disease paralysis almost always ensued, which not unfrequently became general and afi'ected the tongue, throat, and respiratory muscles. The diagnosis turns upon the presence of the recognised results of syphilis in other parts, on that of the peculiar pain in the head, and on the success of specific treatment. The prognosis is not unfavorable, but becomes so much worse the longer the disease has already existed, the more frequently it has relapsed, the more it is attended with other cerebral symptoms, especially paralyses, and the more the kind of mental disorder approxi- mates to idiocy, or is combined with paralysis. Eelapses ai'e not rare. NEBVOTJS SYSTEM. Meekel.—Report on symptomatic defects and Loss of Speech produced ly cerebral ejections. Schmidt's Jahrb. vol. 122, p, 106. Htjghlings Jacksok, M.D.—Loss of Speech, its association with val- vular disease of the heart, and with Hemiplegia on the right side. Defects of smell. Defects of speech in Chorea. Arterial regions in Epilepsy. Clin. Lectures and Keports of the London Hospital, 1864, p. 388. This valuable paper we can only refer to. Hughlings Jackson.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., Aug. 1.3, 1864. Jackson records the case of a male, ret. 49, healthy-looking, but affected with aortic regurgitation, who had loss of speech associated with hemiplegia on the left side, followed at a later period by epileptiform seizures. Jackson refers these to softening from imperfect supply of blood to the brain in the region of the right middle cerebral artery. Cases, he says, of uni- lateral epileptiform convulsions coming on suddenly in very healthy-looking young men suggest the inquiry whether some quasi accidental cause, like embolus, be not more fi-equently the origin of epilepsy than is generallyKEUVOUS SYSTEM. 67 supposed. This is the more likely when it can be pointed out that the muscles first affected by spasm in those cases are the same as are paralysed in plugging of the middle cerebral artery ; and again, that the hemiplegia which sometimes follows the unilateral convulsions (epileptic hemplegia) is also of the same kind as that which follows plugging. In another case which he gives, the patient, set. 54, of healthy appearance, and free from valvular disease, had 9 or 10 fits consisting of loss of speech (temporary), right-sided convulsions, and unconsciousness. Jackson believes the cause to have been spasm of the middle cerebral artery or its divisions. This, he says, is a mere hypothesis, but it is at all events a smaller one than such theories of reflex irritation as are generally received; such for in- stance that worms or teething produce universal convulsions ; and it gives the theory of reflex irritation at least an anatomical framework to say that disease in the range of a cerebral artery produces spasm of the branches of that arterial system. The view generally held, supposes that an irrita- tion may produce paralysis or spasm in parts which have no special anatomical connection, or physiological relationship. According to Jackson's hypothesis, the brain-substance would be temporarily ill- nourished by spasm of the vessel, just as it would permanently in the case of embolism by plugging of the arterial trunk. In the first then, we should have unilateral convulsions, and in the second unilateral paralysis— in one hemiplegic epilepsy, in the other what, if, as is now and then the case, it were preceded by convulsions, we should call epileptic hemiplegia. Clinical observations seem to demonstrate beyond a doubt that con- vulsion is closely allied to paralysis. We constantly find paralysis fol- lowing convulsions, and, what is more striking, we often find convulsions beginning in parts already paralysed. Such cases seem to Jackson to prove beyond doubt the truth of Dr. Eadcliffe's views, that convulsions depend on enfeebled power of the nervous centres, or diminution of blood- supply, rather than on increased irritability or congestion. Now^and then convulsions usher in hemiplegia from embolism. Here it is inconceivable that the condition of the motor tract, the corpus striatum, can be any other than one of anaemia. It may be said that the medulla oblongata and not the corpus striatum is concerned in convulsions. Whatever the medulla oblongata may have to do in some links of the seizure, it is a fact that unilateral convulsions do follow from affections of the corpus striatum, as in the instance of embolism, and that they do follow disease on the surface of the hemisphere. The medulla oblongata may be diseased as well, but post-mortem examination shows that in unilateral convulsions the middle cerebral artery itself, or of some part of the brain in its range is diseased too. Jackson further observes, a patient may be m rude health, and j&i part of his nervous system may be below par fi-om some quasi accidental cause, as embolism, or local injury to the side of the skul], or syphilitic deposit in the pia mater on the surface of the hemis- phere. In such cases then, part of the nervous system only being affected, the convulsions also are partial. It seems then reasonable to suppose that when the nuti-ition of a part of the brain is below par we should give as drugs and food such substances as are known to contain constituents of nervous tissue. Then, the blood being enriched, the part below par would get its nutrient supply more easily. A case is next cited from the ex*HEI'ORT on PRACriCAL MEDICIXE. 68 perienco oi" Delasiauve, in which epileptiform attaclcs were constantly preceded by an excessively olfensivo odour, soon followed by trembling of the limbs on the right side of the body, and next by total loss of sensi- bility. Jackson says, in some cases of plugging of the left middle cerebral artery there is another symptom : (i) loss of smell as well as (2) paralysis of the right arm and leg, and (3) defect of speech. Jackson has had under his care a boy whose fits always begin by a disagreeable smell (i), he is then insensible, convulsed on the right side (2), and when he comes to himself he is unable to talk intelligibly for half an hour. A case of embolism iu which (i) smell, (2) power on the right side, and (3) speech were lost, has been recorded by Dr. Fletcher, of Manchester (Brit. Med. Journ., April 30); and Jackson has now under his care several cases in which these three defects exist together. In one of them there is valvular disease ; and in that case at least it is probable that the left middle cerebral artery is plugged. It is quite clear that the boy's defects are analogous, except that they are slighter and very transient. Instead of (1) loss of smell, he has temporary disorder of that function; instead of (2) j^aralysis of the right arm and leg, he has convulsive move- ments of those limbs ; instead of (3) loss of speech he has defect of speech. When we further consider that the left middle cerebral artery supplies (i) the roots of the olfactory bulb, (2) the corpus striatum, and (3) the hemispheres, we can readily understand how the three strangely associated symptoms sliould occur together in plugging of that vessel, and I submit that temporary spasm of the vessels in that arterial region would account for the 3 temporary symptoms in epileptiform seizures. Although the olfactory bulb, the motor centre for the arm and leg, and the seat of the faculty of language, have no relationship of function, yet being bound together by an artery, they have a relation by community of nutrition; and hence we understand how the three suffer very often together in disease. EusSELli, Jas., M.D. Cases of hemiplegia ivith Loss of Speech. Brit. Med. Journ., July 23, Aug. 20. IViLKS, S., M.D.—Abstract of clinical lecture on a case of Loss of Speech and Paralysis in an hi/sterical wotnan. Cure hy moral treat- ment. Med. Tim. and Gaz., Sept. 3. E. P—, Eet. 22, admitted May 30; eighteen months before, without any previous symptoms of hysteria or emotional excitement, she lost speech in the night. At the same time she became unable to sit up, and has been speechless, and has kept her bed ever since. She communicates her wishes by writing, and can make signs readily. She seems to be quite intelligent, understands what is said, and replies well by writing. She can use her arms, and passes most of her time in embroidery. On June 9, under some little exercise, and the fear of galvanism, she said yes and no in a whisper. To give the result shortly this patient without any drugs became quite well and was discharged. She spoke perfectly, and moved her limbs well. It was impossible to ascertain whether she was menstruating when she lost speech, but before and since there was no disorder of that function. Dr. Wiiks remarked on the uselcssness ofXKRVOL'S SYSTKM. physic in such cases as the foregoing, and the importance of moral treat- meiit. Mabtxit, S., M.D.—Oii the plipioloc/ical meaninr/ of Infra-mammcmf pain. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. lo. After stating his reasons for being dissatisfied with previous explanations, Martj'n affirms that in cases of tliis intercostal neuralgia there is palpi- tation on any exertion, and that in most cases the pain and the palpi- tation have a distinct connection. On posing the question—why is pain almost invariably confined to the sixth, seventh, and eighth intercostal spaces of the left side ? the answer seemed to be a relation to the heart. Reflected or radiated pain is now recognised as extremely common, and in the view that the pain in question might be of this nature, Martyu inquired—are there any nerves supplied to the heart, and to the 6th, 7th, and 8th intercostal spaces from the same central region ? and finds that a most important anatomical relation requires to be taken into account. The aortic arch impinges on the left side of the third dorsal vertebra; and opposite the 4th, 5th, and 6thj it receives contributions to its plexus from the corresponding ganglia of the sympathetic, while its plexus again contributes to the heart. These sympathetic nerves have, however, just received branches from the intercostal nerves themselves; and so it is that the heart and the intercostal spaces (4, and 6), are supplied by branches of the same nerves. Moreover, this is on the left side and above only, for on the other side more of these branches go to the oesophagus, while below those from the 6th ganglion chiefly go to form the large splanchnic nerves. Now, the 4th, 5th, and 6th intercostal nerves are those which give off large, lateral, cutaneous branches, descending over two ribs before they terminate in the skin over the 6th, 7th, and 8th intercostal spaces, or the site of infra-mammary pain. Smaller twigs of the same nerves supply the ends of the same intercostal spaces, where the pain may also be perceived. He then refers to V. Bezold's experiments, I reported in the Year-Book, 1864, p, 19, as showing that the region of I the cord referred to contains nerves passing out to the heart. Thus the ' anatomical nervous connection between the heart and the region of infra- , mammary pain, became endowed with a great significance, and it seemed I more than ever probable that the sensorium received the impression of i some distress in the heart through nerves which enter the gray posterior * columns of the cord at the same point as those from the 6th, 7th, and 8th intercostal spaces. The central impression is radiated, and referred by the mind to the sensitive skin. In tlie case of aneurism of the descending portion of the aortic arch, the same nervous circuit accounts for the pain in the side, which is indeed a more aggravated form of infra- mammary pain. In severe instances of intercostal neuralgia painful spots are also to be found near the sternum and spine, at peripheral ends of cutaneous nerves, and even in the arm, which through intercosto-humeral branches receives also sensory nerves from the same source. In these and other ways the theory here laid down explains the actual phenomena. For instance the pain may be (though always to a much less extent) felt on the right side also. Now, although the first internal dorsal branches of the sympathetic on the right side go to the ccsophagus, some of themBJ2P011T ON PEACTtCAL MEDICINK. 70 do run on from it, and under it to the aortic arch. Again, though the 6th, 7th, and 8th intercostal spaces form the liahitat. of this pain, it may be felt in the 5th and in the 9th also; tliis being readily accounted for by the delicate and very irregular filaments wiiich run from the ist and 2nd dorsal ganglia, as well as from the great variations in tlie mode by which the dorsal sympathetics form the great splanchnic. So far, then, Martyn believes there is reason, on anatomical, physiological, experimental, and pathological grounds, for adopting this theory that infra-mammary pain is a reflex neuralgia, expressive of some distress in the heart. The indi- cations for treatment are to remove the source of irritation, relieve the heart of its work, and allay the pain. Graefe.—On Cardio-Thyroiclean KvopJithahnia. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 17. Graefe points out a symptom wbich presents itself from the first, is constant, characteristic, and pathognomonic. It is the suspension of the sympathetic connection normally existing between the vertical rotation of the visual plane, and the movement of elevation and depression of the superior eyelid. In the normal state the eyelid is seen to follow this movement, and to be elevated or depressed in proportion to the extent of the rotation of the eye. But in this disease the eyelid remains motionless, especially in the rotation of the eye downwards. Latcock, T., M.D.—Clinical lecture on Exophthalmos. Med. Tim. and Gaz., Sept. 24. Laycock relates two cases ; the first entitled vascular bronchocele, with exophthalmos and palpitations following upon a fright—neuralgia, but no anaemia; the second exophtlialmos and vascular bronchocele with palpi- tations and neuralgia, aggravated paroxysmally; no anemia. The first case was not treated, the second was made worse by iron and digitalis. Some cases of highly-marked anaemia are contrasted with the preceding, in which none of the peculiar symptoms of Graves' disease occurred, and which recovered under the use of iron and ergot. Laycock proceeds—it has been a doubt with me for some time past whether even in these cases it is the anaemia exclusively which gives rise to the murmurs, or whether there is not something in the constitution and morbid proclivities of the sex which is a cause of them, in part at least. He cites cases of great anaemia in males without any murmurs, and says the absence of these murmurs in anaemic men is the rule; their occurrence the rule in women, but in women with true chlorosis, and amenorrhoea, menorrhagia, and utero-ovarian disease. Even abdominal pulsations and murmurs, so common in the hypochondriacal and hysterical of both sexes, will not result from anaemia, as was proved by the absence of such murmurs in the cases referred to, although the aorta pulsated well; while in a case with little anaemia, although cachectic looking, there is loud murmur. As to the nature and causes of Graves' disease, and of inorganic murmurs in women, Laycock remarks that both are almost peculiar to women. The only two exceptional cases of palpitation and vascular bronchocele he has ever seen were both in highly nervous, hysterical males. Moreover, the above nflections never are seen in old women. They therefore are inNERVOUS SYSTEM. 71 relation with the age of reproductive activity, and are iu some way or other associated in the sex with utero-ovarian function. The frequent coincidence of amenorrhoja in the unmarried patients with chlorosis and Graves' disease, and of leucorrhcea, menorrhagia, hysteralgia, or other like affection in the married, farther points to this conclusion. And still more conclusive is the fact as to the relations of the thyroid body to the utero- ovarian function. It is often slightly enlarged during menstruation and pregnancy, sometimes dangerously—nay, even fatally, while at least 90 per cent, of the bronchoceles met with in this country are observed in women. In these respects the thyroid body is like the mammae, and since it is now admitted by all, I think, that the influence of the uterus and ovaries on the mammae during menstruation and pregnancy is exercised through the nervous system; we may infer that this vascular bronchocele is induced in like manner. In short, we may conclude from a collocation of clinical facts that neuro-vascular women, naturally of an emotional, excitable temperament, or who, during uterine activity, or during sexual excitement, have had fright, grief, excessive mental labour, or other causes morbidly influencing the nervous system (amongst which we may place anaemia), or who are of an age at which the reproductive organs are functionally active, are predisposed to Graves' disease, and that emotional and similar mental states are the exciting causes. The spinal seats of Ch'aves' disease. First, as to the violent palpitations. Laycock points out that in a fatal case of angina pectoris the neuralgic pains affected the very same parts as in the cases of Graves' disease, viz., those supplied by the external and internal cutaneous nerves, and the inter-costo-humeral. As to the motor nerves and the motor activity of the heart and large vessels there is complete dissimilarity. In the above case he observed diminished power of the heart, and therewith fatty degeneration, just as occurs in voluntary muscles, while in the female patients with exoph- thalmos, there was increased power and activity both in the heart and arteries. Now, as it has been shown experimentally that the oculo-spinal region of the cord contains a cardiac motor tract, we may conclude that 1 in the case of angina pectoris the neuralgia was associated with paresis of . the spinal motor tract of the heart and large vessels in the man, in the I woman with excessive motor irritability. It is probable, too, that in these there is also a hypertesthesia of the endocardium—not sensory, but reflex • —for in experiments on the sympathetic increased capillary activity of i the skin and cutaneous hyperaesthesia are conjoined. The increased activity of the large arteries is dependent upon some morbid condition of J the same oculo-spinal region. ' Whittle, E.—Brit. Med. Journ., March 26. Relates a case of hydrophobia occurring in a male ret. 35. The chief peculiarity was a constant and distressing inclination to pass urine, while scarce any was voided. He felt every now and then something flash through him, as if he were electrified, beginning at the penis. Every 5 minutes he was seized with a convulsive shuddering, that seemed to per- vade his whole frame ; some of the attacks were more severe than others, when ho extended his arms and legs rigidly, leaped up in his chair, and chilled out to be held that he might not do harm to anybody. By u reso-7Z IMOPOllT ON J'llACTICAIi SIKUICINK. lute eftort lio was able to drink, but so violent and prolonged a paroxysm was occasioned by the attempt, that it seemed as if lie would have been suffocated. After some time ho remembered having been bitten very slightly on the penis by a little lap-dog, about lo months before. Death occurred from exhaustion during a paroxysm, in the course of the 3rd tlay. Cameron, J.—Brit. Med. Journ., June nth. Eecords a case of hydrophobia proving fatal in 35 hours after the first appearance of the symptoms, and 6 months from the time of the infliction of the injury. Death occurred apparently from sheer exhaustion. Xo definite morbid change was discovered at the autopsy. Blood generally fluid, and somewhat dark in colour. Eeid, J. W.—Edin. Med. Journ., Aug. Records 6 cases of delirium tremens treated with large doses of tincture of digitalis. All terminated favorably. Four had taken more or less opium before the digitalis was given. The first case appeared to be in a very unfavorable, almost hopeless, condition at the time when the digi- talis treatment was commenced. No depression was produced in any. The precautions taken were to ascertain that no heart disease existed, and to prevent the patient leaving his bed for any purpose before he slept, and for at least 24 hours after he had regained his nervous control. Strong beef-tea, or arrowroot, was always administered at proper intervals before sleep. Pateeson, A. S.—Australian Med. and Surg. Rev. ; Glasgow Med. Journ., Jan. 1864. Eecords 2 cases of mania produced by sun-stroke. In both the hands and feet were cold, and the circulation very languid. The first case took nourishment well, though it was necessary to feed her, but was very re- luctant to take stimulants. She recovered in about months. The second was unwilling to take food or stimulants, and remained after ,3 months' residence in the asylum, in the same mental though in an improved bodily condition. BoNKTMAK, J., M.D.—Observations on Seat-Apoplexy. Edin. Med. Journ., May, 1864. Bonnyman recognizes that exposure to the sun is by no means neces- sary to an attack. By far the greater number of cases that yearly occur in India, are those of men who have not been so exposed. It is not unusual for men who go to bed in apparent health to be seized during the night, and patients in hospital, who have been confined to bed for days previously, are frequently the subjects of attack. Great atmospheric heat then appears to be the condition chiefly concerned in the production of the malady, and whatever assists in rendering heat oppressive, as stillness and closeness of the air, over-crowding and deficient ventilation assists also in disposing to a seizure. The principal predisposing causes are those of a debilitating nature, as mental depression, anxiety, great bodily exertion, fatigue, intemperance, suppressed perspiration, and existing dis- ease, especially in any of the depurating organs. Bonnyman describesNEllYOUS SYSTEM. 73 two forms of the disease, the gradual or progressive, and the sudden or severe. The first is sometimes preceded b}^ well-marked premonitory symptoms, languor, inertia, drowsiness, vertigo, headache, and slight confusion of ideas ; the patient feels weak and nervous, sighs frequently, has thirst, anorexia, constipation, and irritability of the bladder. If the disease proceed unchecked, the symptoms become patient either passes into a state of profound coma, or tlie symptoms_ of the first form of the malady are developed, viz. distracting headache, with a feeling of weight and heat in the occiput, tightness, distension, and throbbing in the forehead and temples, anxiety at the precordia, nausea, and disposition to vomit. A sensation of sinking, or of insupportable weight and uneasiness is referred to the pit of the stomach, and a feeling of horror or of impending calamity, with a tendency to weep, is ex- perienced. The breathing is natural, or slow and sighing. The face is generally natural, sometimes flushed; eyes bright, pupils either natural or somewhat contracted. Skin is very hot and dry, pulse full and accele- rated, tongue white, thirst intense, bowels confined, urine suppressed. The patient is generally distressed and agitated, and speaks in short broken sentences. If these symptoms persist, tetanic convulsions suddenly appear, and the patient lapses into the second or severe form of the dis- ease. This however not rarely makes its invasion suddenly. Its symp- toms are tetanic convulsions, lasting for a few minutes, and followed by profound stupor, from which the patient cannot be roused ; relaxation of the muscles ; slow, deep, stertorous breathing, sometimes accompanied by a loud, prolonged, painful moan or cry. Skin intensely hot and dry. Partial perspiration about head. Countenance pale, no distortion of face. Eyelids closed; pupils at first contracted, but before death becoming widely dilated. Pulse at first full, quick, and bounding, afterwards be- coming quick and weak. Heart's action violent. Sometimes a recurrence of the convulsions takes place, the breathing becomes more and more laboured, and the expired air cold; attempts at vomiting occur ; froth appears at the mouth and nostrils ; and death closes the scene. When , the disease comes on gradually, the recognition of the earliest symptoms '■ of its approach is of the greatest importance, as judicious measures employed in this stage are likely to prove useful in cutting short, or in preventing an attack. Intense headache, burning heat of skin, and a feeling of overpowering load at the epigastrium, are grave symptoms, as there is then imminent danger of the occurrence of convulsions and coma, j On the supervention of the latter symptoms, with stertorous breathing, i an unfavorable issue may generally be expected. An attack may prove fatal in from lo minutes to 12 hours, and when well-marked seldom lasts longer than 2 days. Some cases on recovery from the more immediately dangerous symptoms, are attacked by agues or remittents, and after a period of several weeks die exhausted, the functions of the skin, and of the other emunctories never having been completely restored. While a few cases recover rapidly and completely, the majority on exposure to the sun for any length of time, are ever afterwards liable to occipital headache, and to a feeling of distension in the upper part of the head, the circulation within the cranium appearing to be deranged by the slightest causes. Relapses are frequent, and patients need to be carefully watched during j I74 RBPOET ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE. tho commoncenuMit of recovery, lest the dangerous Bymptoms recur. The appearances after death, where there is no complication or co-existent disease, are pretty constant and unvarying. Irregular patches of a livid red colour arc seen scattered over the whole external surface of the body, those over the neck and dependent parts being large, while those on the anterior surface are smaller and more numerous. These blotches not un- frequently begin to form before life is extinct. The whole body retains the animal heat for a long time. The encephalon and its membranes are found congested, and the veins and sinuses full of dark blood. A quantity of clear serum is generally discovered at the base of the brain, and the lateral ventricles are also full, while their choroid plexuses are gene- rally pale and shrivelled. The lungs are gorged with dark blood, and the bronchi filled with frothy mucus. The right side of the heart generally contains fluid or semi-fluid blood, and the left side is empty. The liver, spleen, and kidneys partake of the general congestion. The blood throughout the body is of a dark colour, and fluid. Bonnyman advocates the theory, that the symptoms are the result of the poisonous action of retained carbonic acid, the elimination of which by the lungs is materially less in hot weather, while in heat-apoplexy not only do the other emune- tories not make up by an increase in their functions for the deficient respiratory changes, but they themselves also cease in great measure to perform their depuratory office. And when it is borne in mind how absolutely necessary for the welfare of the body, and even for the existence of life, the proper performance of the functions is, it cannot be matter of surprise that on the interruption of function of so many important organs, as the lungs, kidneys, skin, and intestines, disease of a grave character should result. That the retention in the system of matters that ought to be eliminated, is intimately concerned in the production of the disease, is further demonstrated by the large quantities of black morbid matters, that continue for some time afterwards to be evacuated from the bowels of those who recover from the malady. Bonnyman points to the coin- cidence of the symptoms as well as of the post-mortem appearances in slow poisoning by carbonic acid, as described by Dr. Golding Bird, with those met with in beat-apoplexy. Cases of intermittent and of remittent fever not unfrequently terminate in heat apoplexy ; and in these the patients are said to die a^yoplectic, though in the mortality returns death is ascribed to the disease for which the patients were admitted into hospi- tal, namel}^, fever. On this account, the number of those who die of heat-apoplexy, often appears less than it really is. Bonnyman believes that further investigation will probably show that malarious fevers and heat-apoplexy are due to the same or to closely allied causes. It has been seen that the latter of these affections acknowledges great and con- tinued heat as its essential cause. And though marsh exhalations are doubtless very frequent causes of periodic fevers, yet great atmospheric heat appears also to be often their sole cause. He says of the 89th regi- ment, to which he is attached, that during its service in India it has never been stationed in marshy localities. The men may have often passed through unhealthy tracts of country, and been exposed to privation m many ways, but it was when quartered in very hot stations that they Buffered most from fevers. He mentions particularly Deesa, Neemuch,NERVOUS SYSTEM. 75 A»ra, Gwalior, and Umballa. Marsh fevers, he thinks, are produced either b}^ the miasm, itself consisting of carbonic acid gas, entering the system from without; or, if it consist of some other gas, by its so lowering the vitality of the system, that the elimination of carbonic acid is prevented ; the result in either case being ultimately the same, and the actual cause of the symptoms being the same both in marsh fevers, and in heat-apoplexy. The reason why in these fevers coma does not come on as in heat- apoplexy is, that free perspiration occurs by which the poison is removed. Cases of sudden deatla occurring during a march, Bonnyman thinks are not instances of heat-apoplexy, but of syncope. In the matter of treat- ment, he recommends the assiduous employment of cold affusion to the head and chest, till the preternatural heat of the surface has disappeared, sinapisms to the epigastrium and abdomen, the administration of stimu- lants, purgative enemata, diuretics and diaphoretics. Venesection ought never to be practised. If reaction set in rather strongly, and headache be much complained of, a few leeches may be applied to the temples, or, preferably, blisters to the back of the neck or sides of the head. Bexedikt, M.—Olservations relating to Hysteria. Oesterrh. Zeltschr. f prakt. Heilk., 9, 36, 41-1863 ; Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 121, p. 42. Benedikt states that hysterical paralyses are characterised by simul- taneously existing anesthesia of the skin, the muscles, and the joints ; by the essential diminution of muscular contractility as tested by intra-mus- cular stimulation, while it appeared to be normal when the plexus or the large nerve-trunks were excited; by the sudden change of cutaneous anaes- thesia into hypersesthesia in consequence of electric stimulation of the plexus ; and by the original deficiency of excentric sensibility, and its restoration ■pari passu with the sense of touch. The most successful treatment is powerful galvanization CFaradization) of the plexus and nerve- trunks belonging to the paralysed part, which is to be performed if neces- sary during chloroform narcosis. This is much more effective than the Faradization of the affected part, though the latter may also be employed to complete the cure. The essence of hysteria consists, according to Benedikt, in increased irritability with diminished conducting power of the nerve. When irritability predominates, convulsions and such-like phenomena ensue, when the failure of conducting power is the chief defect palsies and other symptoms of depression occur. He considers that both the central and peripheral nervous apparatus is morbidly affected. Holt, E.—Lancet, Jan. i6th. Eecords a case of anomalous hysteria, of which the following is a brief account. A girl, set. 14, non-menstruated, of healthy appearance, having never suffered any previous malady except a short intermittent fever, was admitted January, 1862, into the hospital at Milan, with a disorder which had existed two years in spite of all treatment. The only possible cause seems to have been a fright. Every day, precisely as the clock strikes I, she begins to shake her head from right to left, gently at first, but with ever increasing rapidity ; and so great is the velocity these move- mcnts attain towards 3 p.m., that it is almost impossible to distinc^uish ber features. Her long hair is waftec] in all directions, her mouth iaIIEPOIIT ON PJlACriCAL JIKDICINE. 76 firmly compressed, and licr fists are clenched. From time to time she bursts into a violent fit of laughter. The pupil is contracted, but there are no muscular twitchings in any part, consciousness and voluntary motion remain unimpaired. Exactly at 3 p.m. the paroxysm terminates, she falls back in a state of complete exhaustion, panting for breath, and covered with profuse perspiration. She eats her dinner with appetite at 4.30, at 5 p.m. she falls into a state of complete insensibility and remain.s so till 5 a.m. next morning, from which time till the recurrence of the access at i p.m. she is perfectly calm and sensible. Las£gue, A.—On Jli/strrical AncBstJiesia and Aiaxia. Arch. G^ner., April, 1864. Schmidt's .Tahrb., vol. 123, p. 170, A girl, ffit. 18, previously hysterical was attacked by paroxysms of spasmodic disorder, which returned at intervals during 2 years. After one of these she became cataleptic, and subsequently fell into the same state every a or 3 days. At first the fits only occurred after an attack of spasmodic disorder, but at a later period they came on spontaneously. They consisted of deep sopor coming on and ceasing suddenl}*. The limbs were flexible, only the jaws were contracted. All parts of the body ex- cepting the face retained any posture in which they were placed for a longer or shorter time, without any feeling of weariness or consciousness of their position being experienced. Circulation and respiration were un- altered, the face was pale. During the attack all consciousness was sus- pended. In the intervals it appeared that the cutaneous sensibility was quite lost in all the four extremities as regards contact, pain, and temperature, the same was the case in the greater part of the trunk, in the neck and head it was much diminished. The parts subjacent to the skin were anaesthetic like the skin itself. As far as the skin was sensitive the patient was able to move voluntarily the subjacent muscles, while the eyes were closed. Ilj on the contrary, she wished to move a limb she writhed her trunk to and fro as a sign that her volition was active, but no movement of the limb was effected. She was quite unconscious of the position of her limbs, or of their being changed in any way. She had no sense of fatigue, and as soon as her eyes were shut she kept the most uncomfortable posture which would have been intolerable in a few seconds to a healthy person. When her eyes were open she had the full use of her motor power, and experienced the sensation of fatigue after a moderate time. If the eyes, though open, were not directed to the object the movements were imper- fectly executed, but if one was begun it could be completed. If she could only see her limbs through the bed-clothes she was able to make some use of them. It is a peculiar feature of hysterical anaesthesia that the patients take no account of it, and do not mention it as a morbid symptom as they do the paralysis, and the pains. Even when their attention is called to it they caunot point out accurately as a paraplegic or an ataxic patient can, the locality and extent of the insensible parts. This is the more remarkable since their customary actions are materially interfered with by the anaesthesia. With respect to the action of the eye in facili- tating voluntary movements, Lasegue thinks that it informs the intelli- gence and makes it correspond with the will. It is, however, inexplicable how before the execution of an action, vision can give the impulse to itsNERVOUS SYSTEJI. 77 perlbnnance. Lasegue states that the sense of fatigue is not, as might have been concluded from tlie above case, only a degree or mode of tlie muscular sense. Another hysterical patient, who had complete anesthesia and paralysis of the lower limbs as far as the middle of the thigh, but not elsewhere, and in whom there was no anodynia, was able when her eyes were closed to move her arms in any direction, and was aware how they were placed. When, however, her eyes were closed she lost the sensation of fatigue, and could hold her arms in the most uncomfortable position for any length of time. In this instance, therefore, the sense of fatigue was lost, while that of the position of the limbs, and the power_ to move them voluntarily remained. These are, therefore distinct faculties. EAiiSKiLL, J. S., M.D.—Clinical lectures on JE;pilepsy.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., May 28. Eamskill notices the action of belladonna on the bowels in many cases of epilepsy, and says that in a great many instances, no doubt spasm is the true cause of the constipation, and that it is removed by the bella- donna ; but that in many others the constipation is due to atony of the muscular coat of the entire tract, to a deficiency of susceptibility to impressions which mark the muscular condition of most chronic epi- leptics. Powerful stimulant purgatives are very much more permanently useful in these latter cases than in the former. With respect to the bladder, we meet, he says, with two common forma of spasm associated with epilepsy. In the first micturition is usually normal; occasionally, however, when two thirds of the contents of the bladder are discharged, the stream sinks to a mere dribble, and the act is finished by great ex- pulsive efl["ort3, attended by a decided feeling of obstruction to be over- come. This condition Eamskill attributes to a partial spasm of the sphincter rather than to failure of action of the detrusor. The second form is perhaps more common. A patient will micturate easily, and with a full stream, until the bladder is again nearly empty, when a complete stoppage accompanied by a decided crampy feeling referred to the neck of the bladder and parts adjoining occurs. In a few seconds the feeling passes away, and the power of micturition completely returns. Explora- tion of the urethra by a catheter is apt to aggravate considerably the tendency to spasm. In a marked case of this kind the patient was most benefited by belladonna suppositories, small injections of QO., into the bladder, and finally by cod-liver oil, and removal to the sea- side. Eamskill applies the term ganglionic epilepsy to a class of cases in which an aura occurs consisting of some disturbance of sensation, accompanied or not by abnormal feeling of motion in the abdomen, Patients describe those feelings A'ariously, as turning upside down, sinking, fainting, a sense of great coldness, or a rush iipwards from the epigastric region, of heat, trembling, borborygmi, shivering, or a feel- ing of complete collapse, and emptiness of stomach, sometimes with nausea. More or less of these feelings may be always present, and exaggerated only just before a fit. Eamskill believes the symptoms complained of arise from a disturbed condition of the solar plexus and the ganglionic system of the abdomen generally. It may be from a failure of action, or from a disturbed or intermittent action of the solar78 hepout on practical medicine. plexus, and its dependent neighbouring ganglia. The morbid action starting in the ganglionic system propagates itself by way of the splanchnic nerves to the cerebi'o-spinal centre, and a fit follows. Eamskill enforces more particularly that this disorder of the ganglionic system is a disease per se, often existing alone, and an antecedent to any epileptic attack; in fact, that the epilepsy is an accident which issues from, and follows it, and so is fundamentally difierent from epi- lepsy arising from disease in the cerebro-spinal centre, or from a distinct cause of irritation situate in any other part of the body. This gan- glionic affection is as much related to hysteria, tetanus, catalepsy, and perhaps intermittent fever and cholera as to epilepsy; and it seems wise in the treatment of such a case to ignore the convulsive attacks for a time, if they be infrequent, or look upon them only as an index of our progress in restoring power to the great centre. Eamskill would ignore the attacks altogether, were it not for the fact, that each attack may, by causing congested blood-vessels, by effusions, by mechanically weak- ening delicate brain structure, predispose to other attacks, or by dilat- ing the minute and weakened vessels of the medulla oblongata, cause permanent mischief. The subjects of ganglionic epilepsy have generally suffered from various depressing causes, as over-work, under-feeding, mental anxiety, grief; in the female sex from exhausting discharges, menorrliagia, many miscarriages, numerous children, prolonged lacta- tion. Many cases arising from the last cause met with in general hospitals, possess every symptom that epileptics exhibit, even to the clonic convulsive action of the muscles, minus only the general convul- sion and loss of consciousness. McDonnell, — Observations on the treatment of certain forms of Epilepsy; bromide of potassium. Dublin Quart. J ourn. of Med. Sci., Feb. 1864. The author confirms to a great extent the testimony of Sir Charles Locock as to the remarkable efficacy of this drug in epileptiform disease connected with uterine derangement. In some cases of this kind, however, it fails. He thinks a dose of gr. x, ter die is often sufiR- cient, and says that he has given 30 or 40 grains, and even more, ter die, for months together. The remedy produces good efiects in other forms of epilepsy besides those connected with uterine disorder. In certain cases where it has proved successful, a peculiar odour was exhaled from the skin and from the excretions shortly before the occurrence of the paroxysms. This odour was somewhat like that which the skin con- tracts by handling brass, or that of metallic arsenic when sublimed. Dr. Gr. Eogers, (Lancet Dec. 10) reports also very favorably of the same remedy. Stein, J.—Memorab. 8, 8, 1863 ; Schmidt's Jalirb.,Tol. 121, p. 42. Eelates a case of tetanus occurring in a boy, est. 12, after bathing in a cold stream while heated. Trismus commenced the next day, and the disease subsequently involved the extremities and the trunk. The pulse was only accelerated during the first few days, the respiration remained pretty steadily at 28 per minute, and the temperature be- tween 4 and 6 p.m. was on an average ioi°-i F. Tartar emetic and79 NEUVOUS SYSTEM. morphia were of no avail, but packing in the cold wet-sheet always diminished the reflex excitability and the spasmodic paroxysms, and was employed continuously at first, and subsequently, as the disorder declined, at intervals. In 4 weeks there was but little trace of tetanus, and in 6 weeks the boy had quite recovered. Ogle, J. "VV., M.D.—Med. Tim. and Qaz., March 12. Eecords a case of tetanus treated unsuccessfully with nicotine. The patient was a thin, delicate-looking girl, set. 14, whose leg had been lacerated by the wheel of a cart, some 9 days before tetanus commenced. Deatli occui-red in about 3 days. About gr. ij of nicotine were exhi- bited by the mouth, or rectum, and gr. iv by hypodermic injection. But little improvement resulted. Edmtjisds, J.—Med. Tim. and G-az., March 12. Eecords the case of a married woman, set. 28, non-hysterical, who after nursing her second child for 9 months, was suddenly attacked with cramp-like contraction of the fingers, and pain in the arms, soon followed by a similar condition of the legs. By noon the symptoms had in- creased, there was extreme and rigid flexion of the hand and arms, and the head was so drawn forwards that the backs of her wrists were fixed close to her mouth. By the evening all her symptoms were aggravated, and she suflered so much that her screams could be heard across, the road. Her neck became turgid, her respiration somewhat constrained, and she was becoming rapidly exhausted. She had passed a consider- able quantity of pale urine. There was an expression of great anxiety and pain upon the face, and the lips were sufficiently retracted to show the teeth; but the expression was not exactly the risus sardonicus seen in opisthotonos. She was quite rational, and merely swayed her- self about instinctively. There was no appearance of hyperlactation; no evidence of albuminuria or ursemic poisoning; no history of worms ; no traumatic injury, and no clue whatever to any source of eccentric irritation, except the single fact that her bowels had not acted for 3 days. After administering croton-oil, calomel, and a turpentine enema, ice was applied continuously to the spine for 7 hours, at the end of which time all her severer symptoms had disappeared. The screaming and moans were at once mitigated by the ice, and in about half an hour ceased entirely. By the third morning the numbness entirely disap- [ peared, and afterward she had no return of cramp or spasms, but a little I subacute bronchitis and hoarseness hung about her 10 or 12 days longer. Edmunds mentions that in a case of obstinate laryngismus one of Dr. Chapman's ice-bags did more to keep off the strangling attacks than anything else. Laitge.—Memorabilien, 1863, 6, 6. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 179. Lange records a case of rheumatic tetanus occurring in a female, set. ' 36. She was suddenly attacked, without any apparent cause, by tetanus and trismus. The whole body was as rigid as iron, the mouth firmly closed, the face intensely flushed and burning. The rigidity was 1 extremely often interrupted by convulsive quiverings. After opium, 1llEPORT ON PEACTICAIy JJEUICIXK. so fiiuuabis indica, and tartar emetic bad been given without success, a tobacco enema was administered, and soon afterwards an infusion of tiie same given by tlie mouth, and repeated until, in tlie course of 4 days, ,3 dracbins Avere talcen. Immediately after tlic first drachm liad been given, the trismus relaxed ; and after the third, the tetanus ceased, with the exception of some stiffness of the neck, and some occasional exacerbations. 8he was not fully convalescent for more than a month. Falconer, E. W.—Brit. Med. Journ., April i6th. Palconer relates tbe case of a boy, .-ct. 11, wbo was attacked with severe tetanus, but recovered under the constant application of ice to the spine for 32 days.—Mr. Adams (Lancet, July i6th) records a similar case (traumatic). He had also croton-oil and morphia. Db. Gordon Stewart.—Lancet, July 23rd. Dr. Gordon Stewart records a case of recovery from traumatic tetanus, which supervened on tbe i8th day. It does not appear that the treatment had any material influence. Mb. Tybeell.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., Sept. 24th. Mr. Tyrrell records a case of tetanus originating in a very slight injury to the nose of the patient, set. 35. The symptoms supervened 9 days after, and he was brought into tbe hospital on the 22nd. He was then in a state of great prostration ; his teeth clenched, the muscles of expression and mastication rigidly contracted, the dorsal and cervical muscles also rigid. He was conscious, and able to speak a little ; was bathed in a cold perspiration; pulse 95; weak and intermittent. A slight lacerated w^ound was seen on the right ala of the nose, about half an inch in length; it appeared indolent, without disposition to heal. Tyrrell refers to another case of acute traumatic tetanus, treated by him in the same way as this one was (v. Dublin Med. Press, March 2nd, 1864), and states as follows his views on the subject:—As tobacco, or its active principle nicotine, is of service when given internally, a priori it should be more so in peripheral or eccentric tetanus, if applied locally, by paralysing the nerves of the affected part from wdiich the irritation proceeds, and thus removing the cause of tetanic spasms; and that when tetanus arises from a small wound, when a decided impres- sion should be made quickly, a solution of nicotine of known strength, or of tobacco, should be applied to the wound and surrounding parts. And in the idiopathic form of the disease, if the cuticle along the back was raised by a blister, tbe endermic use of the remedy would more quickly bring the cord under its influence, and with less vital depression, than when given internally. In the present case the cuticle was removed from the entire nose, and from about 12 inches square of the back of the neck, and the denuded surfaces were covered with spongio-piline, saturated with a strong solution of Cavendish tobacco. Enemata, containing brandy, ether, quinine, and strong beef-tea, were administered every 4 hours. On tbe 24th, he was able to swallow; ou the 26th, the neck was quite pliant; towards evening he became de- lirious, and his hearing was morbidly acute; 28th, delirium much81 NERVOUS SYSTEir. increased. This symptom seems to have yielded to quinine and opium, and by the beginning of July the disorder was at an end. J. LocKUAiiT Clarke.—0» the Pathologi/ of Tetanus. Lancet, Sep- tember 3rd. Clarke has made a minute examination of the spinal cord in two fatal cases. The first was that of a male, whose leg was inflamed, and presented a deep slougli, 4 inches long by 2 wide—the result of a fall. The actual cautery had been applied from the occiput to the middle of the dorsal region, the patient being under chloroform. At the autopsy the sheath of the cord was found natural in appearance. It had a reddish hue, owing to the fulness of the vessels on its surface. Over its whole extent the cord was covered with large injected vessels, which were nearly as thick as whipcord. They were near together, and ran more or' less parallel to the length of the cord. The white and gray matters were both congested, and the puncta were very con- spicuous everywhere. On examination of the principal parts of the cervical enlargement, after it had been hardened by long maceration in chromic acid, the following alterations were found:—The gray substance in particular was very much congested, and not only were the vessels unnaturally dilated, but each was more or less surrounded by a granular and originally fluid exudation, in which the natural tissue of the parts became broken down and ultimately dissolved. In some sketches which he gives, the following alterations are indicated:—In (f) a large triangular mass of exudation is shown at the bottom of the anterior median fissure, where it has destroyed a part of the anterior commissure. In (2) a large quantity of gi-anular exudation has enve- loped, and partially destroyed, some blood-vessels and the pia mater which supports them. The exudation extends to the left around the bottom of the anterior column, destroying a portion of the anterior commissure, and following the course of an evidently diseased blood- vessel into the middle of the anterior corner, where it has destroyed a part of the gray substance. In (3) the same kind of granular I exudation is found enveloping the pia mater of blood-vessels which I enter at the anterior median fissure. Very minute and numerous areas ! of granular or pellucid degeneration are scattered through the gray substance. Most of them may be seen to lie, as they probably all do, at the side of or around blood-vessels. In the second case, that of a girl, set. 7, some pain and inflammation were produced by a small ' wound on the ball of the toe of the right foot. Tetanus set in about the 13th day, and she died 12 days later. At the autopsy the pia mater of the brain was found to be slightly blood-stained in the neighbourhood of vessels, but to be otherwise healthy. The dura mater of the cord contained about half an ounce of blood-stained fluid. The vessels of the surface of the cord itself were greatly injected, especially in the lumbar enlargement. Its gray matter was congested. The remainder of the cord was more than usually vascular both on the surface and in the interior, but less so than in tho lumbar region. Kearly the whole of the spinal cord was submitted to Clarke for examination. To the unassisted eye nothing unusual 6 182 1U5P0UT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINB. was observable in its interior; but when the microscope was employed OQ sections properly ])repared, lesions were discovered of the same general natiiro as tliose described in the first case. Every region—the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar—was more or less affected; but in eacli the morbid appearances seemed rather to occur at intervals, and not uniformly throughout its length. In some sections the injury was limited to the gray substance ; in otiiers it involved the white columnH, particularly the i)o.sterior and lateral. Sometimes the lesion was in tlio form of a granular deposit around blood-vessels ; sometimes in tin; form of globular masses or rings, arising from injury and displacement of the white substance of the adjacent nerve-fibres. The latter appear- ance was more frequent in the white columns and along the sides of fissures containing blood-vessels, where the tissue occasionally had the aspect of a moth-eaten cloth. In some places the lesional spots were exceedingly small, and might easily have been mistaken by an un- practised eye for the natural appearance of the part. The treatment which Clarke recommends consists of division of the wounded nerve as early and as high up as possible; cupping along the course of the spine ; frequent doses of calomel with opium; and potassio-tartrate of antimony, repeated during the severer paroxysms at short intervals, and in sufficient quantity to produce nausea, or perhaps vomiting. The chief object of the antimony is to subdue the spasm; but it might also assist in arresting the morbid action of the blood-vessels. Some years back Clarke recommended the use of tartrate of antimony in those violent and prolonged paroxysms of hysteria which are so intractable and distressing, and he has never known it fail. As soon as nausea supervenes the spasms, however violent, begin to relax; and if the paroxysm be excited or prolonged by the presence of undigested food in the stomach, the vomiting will prevent its recurrence. In tetanus any depression that might be caused by the antimony would be much less than the exhaustion of the nervous system resulting from the violence of the spasms. Mr. Howaed.—Lancet, Oct. ist. Eecords a case of opisthotonos occurring in an hysterical subject cured by the application of ice to the spine. The patient was a male, a)t. 25. Von Graefe.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., Oct. 22nd. Relates a case of facial spasm aflecting the muscles of the left side. It was exceedingly violent, and only ceased during sleep. It could be stopped alone by pressure on a certain point of the lower jaw, behind the last molar tooth. The nearer the pressure was exercised towards the maxillary foramen the easier it was to stop the spasm. The in- tensity of the spasm increased, and there appeared two so-called induced points of pressure, viz., one on the temple corresponding to the tem- poral branch of the subcutaneous malar nerve, and the other corre- sponding to the supra-orbital nerve. Induced points of pressure differ from the real startiug-jioint by the circumstance that by pressure on the former the spasm is only diminished, but not altogether stopped, and also by their being absorbed at a later period of the disease only.NERVOUS SYSTEM. 83 If neurotomy is made near an induced point, the spasm is considerably- lessened, and sometimes appears as if it were cured, but it soon regains its previous violence. In order to see whether this would occur in the present case. Von Gracfe first divided the supra-orbital nerve and the temporal branch of the subcutaneous malar. The spasm was diminished in some parts, but went on iu the zygomatics and the levator lab. sup, muscles. "Within 14 days, however, the whole aspect of the case was as bad as it had been before. On the inferior alveolar nerve being divided the spasm ceased at once and entirely, and did not recur. The gustatory nerve seems to have been divided at the same time. The patient felt no inconvenience from the extensive anaesthesia of the cavity of the mouth, the chin, the lower jow, the temple, and the forehead. J. W. CotrsiNs, M.D.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., Feb. aoth. Records a case of acute myelitis, occurring in a male, set. 36, after exposure during a wet night. There was pyrexia, spinal tenderness, general hypersesthesia, most marked on left side of body, and loss of power over both legs, which were frequently drawn up by spasmodic reflex movements. The left arm and both legs experienced gnawing sensations. No loss of power over arms or over sphincters. With bel- ladonna, ergot, local blistering, and subsequently Pot. lod., he recovered in about a month. The same physician also records the following in- stance of chi'onic myelitis limited to the cervico-brachial region. A widow, aBt. 49, had in April severe neuralgic pain over right shoulder and down the arm. She improved under treatment, but in May she sulfered from intense hypersesthesia down the right arm, especially over the biceps and dorsum of the thumb; the left was only very slightly aftected. There was also increased sensibility of the right cheek, Avithout any change in the pupil. Hypersesthesia was marked on the right side of the spine as low down as the middle of the back, and over the left leg. The lower cervical processes were tender on percussion, and a warm sponge applied to them caused intense pain. There was a constrictive sensation round the chest and pain in the cervical and occi- pital regions. Pulse small and feeble; lately she had become weak. She said her arms were weak, but there was no perceptible alteration in the voluntary control or reflex movement of either the upper or lower extremities. With belladonna and ergot internally, and blistering to the cervical spine, she got quite well. Radcltffe, C. B., M.D.—Lancet, Dec. 3rd. Eccords a case of acute and very extensive myelitis, terminating fatally in 10 or 12 days. The motor and sensory paralysis extended up to a line drawn round the body four inches below the ensiform carti- lage, licflex movements were absent. No pain was produced by per- cussion of the spine or applying heat to it. Priapism was marked. The urine remained acid throughout. There was retention of urine. At the post-mortem examination the meninges were found normal, but the whole substance of the cord, from its brachial enlargement to its inferior termination, was found of a yellowish-red colour, and softened to the consistence of cream. Tlie natural structure of the cord was alto- gether broken down, and the debris mixed with blood-corpuscles, exuda- .tion-granules, and some pus-corpuscles. In spite of this disorganization84 HEPOKT on PlIACTICAL MEDICINE. there was a return of some degree of seusation iu tlie penis, bladder, and rectum, during tlio two days preceding death, after it had been altogether absent for upwards of a week. In reference to this, lladcliffe cites a case irom^ M. Laugier, which goes to show that a divided nerve may still traus- i»it impressions if the two severed extremities are placed in apposition. BouEiLLOK.—Gaz. d. H6p., 139, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 121, p- 305- ^ . . Eecords a case of ataxic locomotrice in which great improvement was obtained by the administration of nitrate of silver. The disorder super- vened seven years previously, in consequence of a wetting. He was unable to walk, he had lost the sense of touch, but not that of temperature, and the sensibility to pain was increased. The muscular sense was preserved. Without the aid of vision the patient could not write nor command his movements properly. At times an irrisistible impulse obliged him to advance forwards. i\ll these symptoms improved under the treatment. BoucmjT.—On tJie use of Nitrate of Silver in the Paraplegia of Chil- dren. Bullet. Gener. de Therap., Jan. 30th, 1863. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eev., Jan., 1864. A child, set. 7, had fallen from the height of a few feet, and im- mediately complained of acute pain in the dorsal region. From this time the child was unable to walk, and when she was placed upright the legs bent and sank down under the weight of the body. The speech became slow, difficult, and indistinct, and the food escaped partly from the mouth during mastication. Por nearly a month only expectant treatment was adopted, but Dr. Bouchut then conceived the idea of treating the paralysis with nitrate of silver. He prescribed gr. ^, divided into to 2 pills, to be taken every day; and this treatment (occasionally varying the dose) was continued for more than a month with success, for at the end of tliis time the child left the liospital per- fectly cured. Bouchut regards the condition in this instance as one of commotion of the cord, and thinks the remedy would not be suitable in myelitis or meningitis. LoCKHAET Clarke, J.—Fathological investiqations in a case of Para- plegia. Brit, and Tor. Med.-Chir. Eev., April, 1864. The patient was a man, set. 49, in general healthy. He had been ill 7 months and had given up work for 5. The motive power of the legs was almost totally lost; seusation was almost abolished in the left leg, but existed in a considerable degree in the right. He died 10 days after admission, suffering with pleuritis of the left side. The morbid changes consisted of streaks and spots of transparent granular degene- ration, patches of more opaque, hypertrophy of the connective tissue, degeneration of the white columns, and the presence of corpora amy- lacea. Tor details of the above alterations we must refer to the original description. Clarke, however, concludes his paper with the remark that his anatomical examination discovered structural changes to which no corresponding impairment of function is recorded in the history. We have seen, he says, that at the level of the fourth cervical nerves, the anterior and posterior commissures, and in some sections the tractusNEllYOUS SYSTEM. 85 intermedio-lateralis were injured by disease; while in the white columns many of the nerve-fibres had suffered either partial or entire destruc- tion. Now, the only recorded symptom to which we can point as likely to result from these lesions is the laboured respiration; for this might have been partly due to injury of the tractus intermedio-lateralis, which is connected with the lower roots of the spinal accessory nerve. Through the brachial or cervical enlargement we found that the decus- sating fibres of the anterior commissure were destroyed to a consider- able extent by fatty degeneration ; that blood-vessels in the neighbour- hood were enlarged and diseased ; that the anterior roots of the nerves in some sections were more or less damaged; and that many of the fibres of the white columns, especially the anterior and the lateral, had suffered in a similar way. And yet, notwithstanding these various lesions of structure, we have not a single corresponding symptom or im- pairment of function recorded in the history of the case. There is no mention of any abolition whatever of either motion or sensation in the upper extremities ; and on making further inquiries upon this point, I was informed that the patient had apparently the perfect use of his arms, and employed them in the usual way in eating his meals. Tet there can be no doubt that there was some abnormal condition of the arms and hands; and it is extremely probable that a closer scrutiny during life would have revealed its nature. NETJ3iA?fN, E.—Deutsche Klinik, 7, 1864. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 185. States that it is a matter of experience that in certain paralyses, especially facial, the paralysed muscles soon cease to react to the in- duction current, applied either to the muscles or to the nerves • while with the constant current on closing or opening the circuit they react vigorously under the same conditions, more vigorously than those of the sound side. In the same proportion as voluntary motor power re- turns the reaction to the induced current increases, and that to the constant decreases. The cause of this remarkable phenomenon Neumann believes to be the momentary duration of the induced current. In a case of rheumatic facial paralysis, where the strongest induced currents had failed for a month to produce any contraction, and where the will was equally powerless, active twitchings were pro- duced by the constant current both on closing and opening. Now, single induction-shocks both in opening and closing had no effect, ■which Neumann considers to prove that the non-efficacy of the induced current did not depend either on the rapid succession of its currents or on their varying direction. The real cause is, he thinks, the momen- tary duration of the induced current, for when the constant current, by a contrivance, was made nearly as momentary, its stimulus caused no contraction, but this regularly ensued if the current continued only for a brief time. Du CHEITNE.— On tJte state of the Sympathetic Nerve in A.taxie loco- motrice progressive. Q-az. Hebdom., 1864, 8, 10. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, p. 185. In some cases of this disease Ducheune observed that the pupils wereREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINK. 86 usually very much contracted, but dilated greatly during the paroxysms of pain, and that simultaneously the conjunctiva of tiie lids and globe became very red, and its temperature increased, thougli jio catarrhal secretion toolc place. Atropine in these cases would not produce dilatation of tlie pupils. Sometimes tiic enlargement (!xiHted wiLliout the other symptoms, sometimes there was only contraction. In some cases one eye only was aifected, in others botii. Duclienue believes that the patliologieal anatomy of ataxie locomotrice progressive is not yet made out, and compares the ocular derangement with those of the bladder, rectum, and genitals. M0NTINE.TA, A. DE.—Gaz. des Hopit., 1864, 11, Relates a case in which symptoms much resembling those of ataxie locomotrice progressive were removed by free cupping along the spine and blisters. An attack of typhus, which lasted 4 weeks, interrupted the improvement, which subsequently went on to complete recovery. AxENFELD—On alrophic der/eneraf ion of the Spinal Cord. Arch, gener. Aug., Oct., 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 291. In an historical sketch of the disorder termed ataxie locomotrice progressive Axenfeld states his disapproval of the name and his pre- ference of the older one—tabes dorsalis. He ascribes the first investi- gations respecting it to German rather than to French avithors. Tlie chief difference in the descriptions of the disease given by Romberg, Duchenne, and Trousseau, relates to the condition of the sensibility, which some writers state to be preserved, while others affirm it to be impaired, though certainly not in proportion to the amount of motor disorder. Respecting the pathological alteration, there is a very general agreement, both as to its nature and its seat. It can only be regarded as a chronic myelitis, as the vascular injection, the increase of connec- tive tissue, and the wasting of the uerve-tis.'iue, as well as the symp- toms and the causes, testify. The chief symptom of tabes, the "ataxia" of the movements, has nothing in common with convulsive affections, for the latter occur independently of and against the will, while the former is manifested solely during voluntary movements. It has more resemblance to functional spasms, e.ff. to writers' cramp, but is essen- tially different from tliis by being apparent in all kinds of movements, while the cramp only ensues when the hand is placed in a certain position. What alterations in the nervous system conditionate the "ataxia" is quite unknown; disturbance of the harmonic action of the antagonist muscles affords no sufficient explanation. The locality of the causal alterations is also undetermined. This only is certain, that they are situated partly in the posterior columns of the cord, partly in the cerebellum. Physiology as well as pathology teaches that diseases of the cerebellum and removal of its substance disturb the faculty of co-ordination ; it is also certain that in the majority of autopsies gray degeneration of the posterior columns and posterior roots has been discovered- The conclusion from those facts must be that the cerebellum is a, centre of co-ordination, but not that similar centres exist also in the cord, because the posterior columns may possibly only afford tho means of communication from the periphery to87 NERVOUS SYSTEM. the cerebellum. It is further important to determine wliether the loss of tlie co-ordinative faculty can exist quite independent of all derange- ment of sensation of the skin or muscles. That the muscular sensi- bility has an influence in the production of ataxia is proved by the ex- periments of Longet and Bernard, which prove that the movements immediately lose their harmony as soon as the sensory cutaneous nerves, or still more as soon as all the posterior roots, containing also the sensory muscular fibres, are divided. From this it must be con- cluded that in all cases of tabes in which the posterior roots along with the posterior columns are involved in the atrophy, and where, therefore, sensation must be more or less interfered with, the " ataxia " is to be regarded as the result of this an£esthesia. The case appears to be diS'erent in those instances where either the muscular or cutaneous sensibility remain perfect, or where their impairment is insignificant in comparison to the amount of " ataxia." In these cases it may either be supposed that the atrophic posterior columns together with their sensory function possess also a more direct relation to the co-ordination of movements, or that besides the cutaneous and muscular sensations tliere are also impressions conveyed from the joints, ligaments, and bones, which may be abnormal and give rise to the motor disorder. It is certainly remarkable that in hysteria, in spite of the intense dis- turbance of the cutaneous and muscular sensibility, the movements are never un-coordinated. The impairment of general sensibility explains also why the subjects of tabes are not much aided in their movements by the use of sight, while the mere loss of muscular sensibility is com- pletely supplied thereby. The common combination of anaesthesia with peripheral radiating pains proves still further the sensitive func- tion of the posterior columns. The disorder seems to have a connection with the period of sexual activity both in the male and female. No reason can be assigned Avhy the posterior columns are so much oftener affected than the anterior and lateral, or than the whole thickness of the medulla. The disease can scarcely be confounded with any other affection of the cord, and not readily with those of the cerebellum, as the "ataxia" is the only symptom comiuon to both. Barwinkel (the reporter of the paper), while approving in general of the writei''s views, states tliat they do not explain those cases in while the posterior columns are found quite normal. With regard to these, he suggests that not only the afl'creut nerves, but also the efferent motor, are concerned in harmonic movements, andthat the latter may be morbidly changed while theposterior columns remain quite normal. Besides, it is by no means improbable that the process of performing combined movements in walking, stand- ing, and many other actions which have become habitual, is by no means dependent on sensations of which we become conscious, but is produced in a purely reflex manner by nerves which proceed from the muscles, the joints, and the skin, and convey impressions to the centres of co-ordination. "When the latter fibres are diseased conscious sensa- tion may remain normal and yet the posterior columns may be atrophied, Barwinkel recently observed a case where, shortly before death, the sensibility at least of the skin was not only preserved, but was even excessive, so that mere contdpt was painful. The patient had had tubesIIEPOIIT ON I'llACTICAL ilEDICI.N'B. 88 for at least 12 years, being able to move his limbs, but unable to walk. After (Joatli the posterior columns and the posterior roots were found utterly degenerated in tlio wliolo length of the cord. Salomon, M.—On Central Farah/sis ; an essay in differential diagnosis. Deutsche Klinik, 35—46, 1863. Sclnnidt's Jalirb., vol. i2i,p. .^oa. Leven.—Gaz. de Paris, 9, 1864. Sclnnidt's Jalirb., vol. 122, p. 184. Leven records the case of a female, a)t. ,31, who previously had liad indurated chancre, ami now presented an extensive pustulous sypliilide on the upper part of the body. Slie suffered during many weeks witli violent occipital headache and obstinate vomiting, against which Pot. lod. was of no avail. Soon she became dull, and her gait was tottering; in bed she could easily perform all the movements of the legs; her arms were weak, but neither their movements nor those of tlie legs were deficient in co-ordination. Soon after, slie had double convergent strabismus, associated temporarily witli double vision under the in- fluence of the will. The intellect and the sensibility were unimpaired, and the general functions were in good order. In a week after a mer- curial treatment had been commenced improvement took place; first the headache disappeared and the vomiting, then the dulness and the squinting, and in 6 weeks the patient was restored and has remained well. Leven believes the morbid phenomena to have been produced by the presence of a syphilitic tumour in the cerebellum. MoLLEE. — Apoplexy of the Pons Varolii terminating in recovery. Deutsche Klinik, 49, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 124, p. 24. A female, £Et. 24, was suddenly taken ill with pain in the left side of the head and stiffness and numbness of the whole left half of the body, soon succeeded by paralysis. The facial and hypoglossal nerves were involved. There was difficulty of swallowing, but no loss of conscious- ness. The respirations were frequent and shallow; the pulse small, 140 ; the state of the heart was normal. In a few hours the paralysis had disappeared, except that the sensibility remained unimpaired, especially in the face, the speech was also imperfect, the special senses were normal on both sides. After 2 days another attack of collapse occurred, attended with a feeling of rigidity on the right side and paresis of the right arm. The morbid phenomena again gradually dis- appeared ; the anresthesia remained longest in the right hand, which continued also to be affected with slight tremor and choreic twitchiugs for a long time. The gait for a long time manifested derangement of the co-ordinating faculty, which, however, could be prevented when the patient directed specially her attention to the matter. Sobbing also Avas prone to occur. At last all that was left was a certain slowness of speech and movements. Moller remarks that the pons is indicated to be the seat of the lesion by the disorder so speedily affecting the two sides, one after the other, and by the maintenance of consciousness. Prom the existence and the long duration of impairment of sensibility it may be inferred that the posterior and upper layers of the pons were affected, which are specially traversed by the sensitive fibres. The derangement of the respiration and circulation he refers to an iude-NEEVOUS SYSTEir. 89 pendent comcident pulmonary disorder, as be observes tbat such accele- ration of the breathing and of the pulse have not occurred m any re- corded case of disease of the pons. Tlie derangement of co-ordination indicates that tlie cerebellum was involved. IIexoch and Steffek (Berlin Klin. "Wocbenschr., i, 1,3, 20, 1864; Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 124, p. 24) record cases of tuberculosis of the cor- pora quadrig. Henoch's case was that of a girl, aet. 15 mo., who had tuber- culosis of the lungs and bronchial glands after measles. While in this condition both superior recti muscles of the eyes became paralysed; then followed vomiting, somnolence, paresis of the right arm, of the palpebral and labial filaments of the right facial nerve, and of the right external rectus; occasional twitchings of theimuscles on both sides of the body, and frequent loud cries ensued, and the pulse, which at first was slow and irregular, became very frequent and regular, while the respiration was much accelerated. At the autopsy there was found tuberculous basilar meningitis, the ventricles were distended with clear serum, but were in other respects normal; in tbe left posterior quadrigeminal body there was a round, yellow, homogeaeous tubercle, half the size of a bean ; the cerebral substance around this and everywhere else was normal. The absence of convulsions aud of blindness is remarkable. The occurrence of palsy of both recti muscles, as the first symptom, is re- garded by Henoch as the result of the pre-existing cerebral lesion, and not of the meningitis. Stefi'en's patient was a boy, set. 3 years, who was admitted with ptosis of both eyelids, while the movements of the globes were normal. He had also pulmonary tuberculosis and severe headache. A month later eclamptic attacks occurred, diffused over the whole body, recurred more and more frequently, permanently dulled the sensorium, and caused death in four weeks. The brain and its membranes were in every part full of blood; the latter was rather soft, but otherwise normal; only the corpora quadrigemina were changed into a broken-up yellowish mass, which proved to be tubercle. The tissueinthe vicinity of the corpora quadrigemina was normal. No tubercle in the meninges. In this case it is difficult to account for the paralysis of the branches of the third nerve distributed to the levat. palp., but the convulsions may fairly be referred to the state of the quadrigeminal bodies, especially as the rest of the brain was healthy, and experiment has shown that mechanical irritation of these parts produces convulsions. Edwaeds.—Glasgow Med. Journal, April, 1864. Eecords a case of abscess in the cerebellum, occupying the centre of the left lobe, and holding about sij. The membranes appeared healthy. The upper and back part of the petrous portion of the temporal bone was carious; there was pus in the tympanum, vestibule, and semicir- cular canals. The patient was a boy, tot. 19 ; his symptoms were shiver- ing, sickness of stomach, pain in the head and right ear, convulsions, recurring strabismus, stupor, and turning round and round from right to left. He died while thus turning. JoxES, T.—Observations on Cerebral IIcemorrhage,from an analysis of 40 fatal cases. Brit. Med. Journ., June 18—Dec. 3.90 REPOnT ON PllACTICAL MEDICINE. Tremors, twitcliings, couvulsious, rigidity, and spasms—one or more of these symptoms supervened in 14 out of tlie 40 cases. In 4 two or more of tlieae symptoms were observed in the same jmtient simultaneously or a,ltcrnately, but not necessarily affecting the same parts. Thus, in one case there were tetanic spasms and tremor affecting the whole body, while there existed, at the same time, persistent rigidity of both arms. In others spasms and rigidity were confined to one side, but there were convulsive affections of the whole body. Tremor was noted in 4 of the 14 cases. It affected the parts paralysed in 3, and in the other was general, while the paralysis was confined to one side. In .3 of the cases the clot was situated in one or more of the ganglia at the neighbour- hood of the base, in the other it was situated in the substance of the right middle lobe, but to such an extent and so near the ventricle as completely to obliterate it. Thus, we find that the clot existed in close contact with the origin of the motor nerve-fibres in all the cases. Again, in 3 cases the clot was confined to one side of the brain, in 2 of which tumours wore general, but in the other this symptom wa.s con- fined to the opposite and paralysed sides. In the other case the clot was situated in the central parts of the pons Varolii, and the tremor was general. In 2 of the cases there existed softening of the parts around the clot; in the other 2 it is distinctly stated there was no soften- ing, lu the former two the tremor was slight and occasional, and in the latter this symptom was more severe and continuous. There seems to be a decided connection between the urgency of this symptom and the duration of life ; for in the two cases in which it was severe and general in its extent the patient lived but 4 hours, while in the other two, in which it was either unilateral or bilateral but slight, they lived as many days. Muscular ticitchings were only observed in two cases. The side opposite to the paralysed one was affected in one, and the hand in the other; the muscles of the face and the eyeballs alone were men- tioned as being paralysed in the latter. The clots in both cases were situated in the meshes of the pia mater, over the cerebral hemispheres; in one there was also some blood in one of the lateral ventricles. There was no softening around the clot. The patient lived 2 days after the supervention of this symptom. Convulsions were noticed in 7 cases; the time at which this symptom supervened varied from an hour to 18 days, and after the appearance of this symptom the attack proved fatal in from few hours to 17 days. In one instance the patient recovered, but was readmitted for another and fatal attack. Of the 6 cases in which the parts involved by the convulsions were noticed they were general in 2, in each of which the paralysis was confined to the right side; in 2 the convulsive affections were limited to one side ; in one of these the paralysis was on the opposite side, and in the other it was general. In another case the convulsions affected the muscles of the face, but the paralysis was confined to the left arm and leg. In the other case the bauds were the site of these movements, and the muscles of the face alone the parts paralysed. Thus, there does not seem to be any connection between the seat of the paralysis and the parts affected by these convulsive movements, except this, that the^ are not generally observed on the side paralysed where this is partial, ^^hat is tboNERVOUS SYSTEM. 91 relation existing between these convulsive movements and the site of the clot ? Of the 7 cases the clot was in contact with the meninges in 3, in one of which the crura cerebri and pons, and in another one of the lateral ventricles, were implicated. In 2 the clots were situated in the substance of the hemispheres ; in i the hasmorrhage was in tlie corpus striatum opening into the ventricle; and in the other the clot was in the centre of the cerebellum, near its root. _ These movements seem generally to occur when the hajmorrhage is either in contact with the membra'nes on the surface of the brain, or where these extend into the ventricles, or with some of the ganglia at the base. They seldom occur when the clot is situated in the substance of the cerebral hemis])heres, unless there be extensive softening or breaking down of the tissues around, as was noted in the above t^o cases. Of 6 cases, in 2 the con- vulsive movements were on the same side of the body as the clot in the brain ; in 2 the clot was on one side of{the brain, while the paralysis was general; and in the other 2 the clot was on both sides of the brain and the convulsions were general. It seems to be the prevailing rule that, when the lesiou is confined to one side of the brain, the con- vulsions are eitlier general or on the same side of the body—seldom on the opposite side alone. In all the cases except one there existed soften- ing around a recent clot or old clots and cysts. Biffiditi/was observed in 5 cases, and in all of them this symptom was continuous. It supervened in some cases in 4 hours; one patient died in 2 hours after seizure, and another in 6 hours. It almost always affects the parts paralysed. This symptom was associated in all the cases with a clot in one of the cerebral ganglia, and in all the cases except one the structure around the clot was softened or broken down. Tetanic spasms were noted in 3 cases, each attack being of short duration. They were general in all the cases, and accompanied with rigidity, or rather this symptom was observed in all the cases during the intervals of the spasms. Of all symptoms this is the most fatal, none of the cases surviving more than 6 hours, and one proving fatal in a few minutes after the supervention of this symptom. In the latter the parts around the clot were healthy; it was a case of small amount of effusion into both lateral ventricles, issuing from a large dilated vessel in the taenia semicircularis ; in the other two there was softening around the clot. Alterations of sensi- hility.—Cutaneous ancesthesia and paralysis generally coexisted. In consequence of the frequent existence of coma in these cases it was difficult and indeed sometimes impossible to decide upon the presence or absence of this lesion of sensibility. In all those cases in which this symptom is noted it always existed in those parts which had lost their power of motility. In a few instances, however, where paralysis existed, anaesthesia was absent throughout. The loss of motion is almost always greater than the loss of sensibility. In those cases in which both symptoms coexisted in an equal degree anaesthesia was tlie first to pass off. This seems to point out that greater pressure is required upon a nervous centre to cause ana3sthe8ia than to cause paralysis. Of the mucous membranes, that of the eyes was most frequently affected with loss of sensibility. Occasionally the conjunctiva oecomes so in. sensible that the escito-motory action of the eyelids is completelyllEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 92 abolished, bo that the finger can be passed over the anterior surface of the eyeball without causing the least movement of the lid, and without the patient evincing the least indication of pain. This is a very grave symptom, and the patients who present it to a great degree almost always die. Sometimes anrostliesia is confined to one eye, which is generally tlie one corresponding to the side of the face paralysed. Alterations of the special senses.—Amaurosis was noted in two cases only, in one of whicii the lesion was in the pia mater and in the cor- responding cortical substance of botli hemispheres. This case tends to show that loss of sight is not always due to pressure upon the tuber- cula quadrigemina. Very probably it was due in this instance to irri- tation transmitted from the seat of the clot to some parts of the nervous apparatus of vision. In the other case there was sullicient haemorrliage, and that in the central ganglia at the base of the brain, to account for the amaurosis by pressure on the tubercula quadrigemina or optic tracts. Amaurosis is a symptom more frequently attending cases of softening, abscess, or tumours of the brain, than of hajmorrbage. Deafness and tinnitus aurium are not mentioned in any of the histories. Alterations of intellicjence.—In the majority of cases the intellect was perfectly clear up to the time of the attack ; or if altered, the change was so transient as to escape obsei-vation; but in some cases certain alterations were noted, as drowsiness, loss of memory, <fec. At the time the hscmorrbage supervened three conditions of tbe intelligence were observed—(i) The loss of consciousness Avas complete. This occurred in 68"4 per cent. (2) Consciousness was but partially abolished. This occurred in 31'5 per cent. (3) Lastly, the intelligence was perfectly clear, although in the cases in which this state was observed there existed complete hemiplegia. The chief cause of these differences in the state of the intelligence was the extent of the effusion. The site of the hajmorrhage seems to have influenced the state of con- sciousness but little. Generally, however, the coma is less deep where the clot is situated in or about the ganglia at the base than when it occurs near the surface of the hemispheres ; for it is interesting to note that, of the 38 cases in which the intelligence was more or less im- paired, the principal site of the htemorrhage was in the arachnoid cavity in 14, and in all these but one consciousness was completely abolished. Again, of the 14 cases there was no paralysis in 9, and of these tbe hoemorrhage was entirely confined to the arachnoid in 4; in 5 there existed partial paralysis, but there was lesion in other parts besides the arachnoid in all but one. In most of the cases the coma continued until death, an event which very rapidly supervened. Occasionally, however, the patients lapsed from a state of complete coma into that of partial unconsciousness. In others, again, consciousness was completely re-established, but their memory wasfeeble,and some becamequite cliildish in their manner, even shedding tears on being talked to. Most of these cases marked by improvement were seized by other attacks, of which they died. As to the relation of consciousnoes to paralysis, Jones finds that of the 26 cases of complete unconsciousness there coexisted complete paraly- sis in 8, partial paralysis in 8, and no paralysis in 9; of the 12 cases of partial loss of consciousness, there coexisted complete paralysis in 2,NERVOUS SYSTEM. 93 partial paralysis iu 9, uo paralysis iu i. Affectiou of the speech has been said to be dependent on lesion in the anterior lobes. This symp- tom was noted in 3 only of the cases under discussion, and in none of them were the anterior lobes implicated. In 1 case the arachnoid was the seat of the clot, in another the middle lobe, and in the 3rd the corpus striatum. There does not seem to be a very decided conriection between the condition of the pupils and the alterations of intelligence. Of the 29 cases in which the state of the pupils was noted, both w^ere contracted in 9 and dilated in 5 ; i pupil was dilated in 6 cases, and i contracted in i. In 4 cases the pupils were inactive, and in 4 they were natural. In those cases of altered intelligence in which the pupils were contracted paralysis existed in 88-8i per cent., and in those in which the pupils were dilated paralysis coexisted in 55 per cent. From the foregoing Jones infers that in those cases of deep iinconsciousness, as- sociated with partial or with no paralysis and contraction of both pupils, the clot is most probably in contact with the membranes. Out of 38 cases, 3 occurred between the ages of 30 and 40 ; 13 be- tween 40 and 50; 10 between 50 and 60 ; 9 between 60 and 70 ; 3 be- tween 70 and 80. These figures, corrected for the numbers living at each decennial period, give the following estimate of the liability to cerebral haemorrhage. Between the ages of 30 and 40 the attacks are V2 per 1000; between 40 and they rise to 7"2 per 1000; between 60 and 70 to 7"6 per 1000; between 60 and 70 to 9 per 1000; and be- tween 70 and 80 they are only 6 per 1000. The male sex is more liable than the female in the proportion of 29 : 11. Exciting causes.— There seems to exist a most intimate connection between disease of the kidneys and of the heart and arteries and cerebral haemorrhage. In 36 fatal cases, of which Jones has notes, the kidneys were found exten- sively diseased in 29, showing the high per-centage of 80*5. In 24 of these cases the organs were described as being small, hard, granular, with wasted cortical substance. In 4 the kidneys were large, soft, con- gested, and cystic, with old cicatrices on the surface. In another case I kidney was reduced to a very small trace, whilst the other appeared healthy. This large per-centage of nearly 90 per cent, cannot but be regarded as indicating a most intimate relation between disease of the kidneys and cerebral hemorrhage. Besides, if the analysis be still further prosecuted, it will be found that renal disease bears a close relation to cardiac disease in these cases; for out of the 29 cases in which the kidneys were found disorganized, the heart was hypertrophied to a great extent in 15, and this hypertrophy chiefly afiected the left ventricle. In i case the heart was fatty, in 3 very weak. Of these 19 cases, in which were found alterations in the muscular structure of the heart, atheromatous deposits were found in 18 on the mitral and aortic valves, but probably not to such an extent as to give rise to obstruction sufficient to produce the hypertrophy ; hence we must look for a cause remote from the heart itself. Of the remaining cases, in which the muscular tissue of the heart was described as healthy, atheromatous deposits were found on the mitral valves in 6, in i of which there was thickening and opacity of the lining membrane on the right side, in 3 there were atheromatous deposits on the aortic valves, and the same i94 REPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. kind of deposits on both mitral and aortic valves in 5. I'hus, the heart was found more or loss diseased in 29 cases; of these, alterations of the muscular structure occurred in 19, in the remaining 10 atheroma alone. Thus, we lind that renal disease was associated with cardiac in 29 cases. In 5 cases both organs were described as healthy. It is an interesting point that in almost all of these there was a history of previous injury to the head. Again, in pursuing the analysis still further, a most marked connection will be found subsisting between cerebral lifcmorrhage on the one hand and disease of the kidneys and of the heart and cerebral and other arteries on the other. Thus, of the 36 cases the cerebral vessels were diseased in 25, and the other large vessels of the body in 14. Cardiac and renal diseases were associated with diseases of the cerebral vessels in 22. Eenal and cardiac diseases, and diseases of the cerebral and other arteries, were associated in 10 cases. Disease of the heart was associated with disease of the cerebral vessels in 24 cases. But of the cases of cardiac disease it must be borne in mind that 15 only were hypertrophied, and of these disease of the cerebral arteries occurred in 10 only. Disease of the kidneys, on the contrary, was as- sociated with disease of the cerebral vessels in 22 cases. From a table which is given it appears that in almost two thirds of the cases the kid- neys, heart, and cerebral vessels, were simultaneously affected ; and it is therefore highly probable that some connection exists between their lesions. Jones rejects the theory that disease of the arteries may be caused by hypertrophy of the heart, causing increased pressure on their Avails, and ascribes it rather to coexisting renal disease, producing im- pairment of nutrition or precipitation of fibrine on their walls. Thompson, T. T.—A successful case of Paracentesis Capitis. Proc. of Med. & Chir. Soc, vol. 4, 1864, p. 377. An infant born healthy 2 weeks afterwards sustained a fall, and 3 weeks later the head was visibly enlarging. On September 25th, 1861, more than 3 months after birth, the head measured circularly, the tape being placed over the parietal eminences, 20 inches, and laterally, en- circling the chin, 21 inches. The iodides and other absorbent remedies were given, and various external applications were made, but the distension continued to increase, and on May ist, 1862, the circvdar measurement was 24I inches, and the lateral 24^ inches. On May 3rd, 1864, the operation of tapping was performed. A trocar, about the size of an ordinary crow-quill, was employed, and introduced through the coronal suture on the left side, about i j- inch from the anterior fontanelle. About 10 ounces of a clear liquid, resembling water, were drawn off, the soft parts forming tlie vault gradually collapsing. The head was then encircled in broad strips of adhesive plaster. First day.— The liquid continues to ooze out; several ounces have thus escaped; slight febrile symptoms. Seventh day.—Fresh strips of plaster applied. Tenth day.—A strong conviilsion ; contractions alternating with relaxa- tions, limited to the right side. Two teeth ready to protrude, the gums punctured, and an aperient given. No return after contnunng 2 hours. On June 9th, 5 weeks after the first operation, the distension being again considerable, the trocar was again introduced, and about 495 NERVOUS SYSTEM. I ounces of liquid withdrawn, milky, and of tlie consistence of weak gum water No untoward symptom occurred ; the head did not again enlart^e. At the end of August, 1862, the soft parts forming the vault were still depressed. During 1863 the scalp became more and more firm. June 8th, 1864.—The child is now 3 years old, strong, and well nourished. The head measures circularly 23^ inches, and laterally 33 inches. The whole of the vault is firm. The mental faculties are in no way impaired; on the contrary, the child is quick and intelligent for its age. The teeth are all present. The exact situation of tho liquid could not with certainty he determined. It was thought to be iu tlie arachnoid. The history of the case—the occurrence at first of a circumscribed swelling, becoming gradually diff"used, and finally followed by enlargement of the whole head—pointed to this supposition. The first operation must have excited some inflammation, which rnorbid process, producing a liquid of greater consistence than that previously present, may have mechanically prevented the exudation of more liquid, or, by exercising a certain amount of pressure, caused that which was left to be absorbed. Leaeed, a.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., June 30th. Eecords a case of cerebral disease, apparently tubercular meningitis, which was successfully treated by Pot. lod., gr. v., 6tis vel ^tis horis, with frequent painting of the shaved scalp with Tr. lod. co. The symptoms commenced on April 9th. The next morning he had a convulsive fit. Several of these recurred—more than 6—up to April 19th, when the iodide was commenced. The fits gradually diminished, and he was convalescent by May ist. His intellect was quite unimpaired. The patient was a delicate boy, set. 14, long subject to glandular swellings in the neck. Db. James Jones.—Med. Tim. and Graz., March 5th. I . Advocates the administration of bromide of potassium in cases of • infantile convulsions characterised by hypersesthesia of the nerve- centres, coupled with anaemia and complete absence of all symptoms of : inflammation. The child has an aspect of timidity and an expression of anxiety, talks or mutters in his sleep, often starts up frightened. The urine is pale and copious, the tongue clean, the pulse weak and irregular; the fontanelle, if existing, is always depressed. Depletory ,1 measures are injurious; opium is often of great service. The bromide i seems to act as a direct sedative, either to the cerebro-spinal centres : or to the vaso-motor nerves, probably to both. Dn. BEnREUl).—Lancet, May 28th. Eecommends bromide of potassium in gr. 2 5 doses ter die as a valu- able remedy in the treatment of insomnia and restlessness, accompanied by or dependent upon nervous excitement and irritability. It does not produce the unpleasant effects of opium or auy of its preparations, and the system does not so rapidly become accustomed to it as to require its administration in constantly iucreasing doses. The only ill result Behrend has witnessed from its use has been slight but temporary headache; no paralysis or weakening of sexual desire and power have been observed.96 RISPOUT ON I'EACTICAL MEDICINE. DuPLAT. —Gaz. des Hfip., March ^tb, 1864. Hecorda a case of sypliililie diBcase, in which the cerehelluin was probably affected, and in wbich recovery ensued under mercurial treat- ment. The patient, a female, a;t. 30, had a well-marked pustular syphilitic eruption on the arms. During several weeks she complained of very severe occipital headache, and had obstinate vomiting, in con- sequence of which the iodide of potassium which had been administered to her produced no effect. The patient now began to grow feeble ; she stumbled; walking became more and more difficult, and at last she was coniined to bed. "While lying down she had perfect voluntary power over both tbe upper and lower limbs. Sbe had also double convergent squint, complicated with diplopia. The intellect and sensa- tion and the principal functions remained intact. At the end of 6 weeks she was dismissed cured. Stein, J.—Case of cJironic Primary Tuberculosis oj the Pons Var. Memorabilia, 8, 9, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 121, p. 302. The patient, an apparently healthy male, set. 21, was attacked at first by severe headache and giddiness on stooping. Fourteen days later he began to have a feeling of weakness in the right hand, which subse- quently extended to the right ear and side of the face, and to both the limbs on the right side. The loss of power became more marked, and somewhat later vomiting commenced; speech and the power ef swallow- ing were impaired, and the right eye was somewhat everted. Enclosed in the left half of the pons was a tumour as large as a walnut, which had produced softening of the surrounding tissue. There was con- siderable serous effusion into the third and left lateral ventricle, and softening of the fornix and left thalamus opticus. The tumour seems to have been of a iibro-plastic kind, containing numerous caudate cells and dividing nuclei. Ogle, J. W.—Brit, and Tor. Med.-Chir. Eev., October, 1864. Eelates 75 cases of scrofulous deposits, or diseases of the brain and spinal cord and their investing membranes. This valuable paper does not admit of abbreviation. KussELL Eeyhtglds and Lockhaet Clabke.— On a case of Paralysis, with Pathological Investigations. Brit, and Eor. Med.-Chir. liev., July, 1864. This communication we can only refer to. HuGHLiNGS, Jackson, M.D.—Illustrations of Diseases of the JVervous System. Clinical lectures and reports of the London Hospital, 1864, p. 337. This valuable paper is unsuited for an abstract. Racibobski.—Nitrate of Silver in Diphtheritic Paralysis. Gaz. des Hop., 20, 1864. Eaciborski treated a married couple for diphtheritic paralysis, which appeared in the man after a throat affection, in the female after primary diphtheria of a wound in the arm. In both cases the extremities and the muscles of the throat were affected. Nux vomica brought aboutNEin'OUS SYSTEM. 97 speedy recovery in the mau, but was rather injurious to the female, although her symptoms were precisely similar. Nitrate of silver, how- ever, was speedily effectual. The patients were not treated till some mouths after the commencement of the disease. Sewell, J. A., M.D.—Lancet, July i6th. Eeports 4 cases in which profound coma—resulting from an over- dose of opium, or alcohol, or from other causes—was removed by the administration of strong green tea. Hutchinson, J. H.—Amer. Quart. Journ. of Med. Sciences, April, 1864. Eeports the case of a girl, set 20, who had complete loss of speech, and also complete deafness, which seem to have continued 4 months, in spite of various remedies, including electricity and tonics and aniline. After being etherized, she entirely regained her hearing. Two days later she was etherized again, and regained some little power of vocalisation. After a third etherization she recovered her speech, and lost her hearing. A fourth etherization produced no immediate result, but in the course of a few days she was able first to hear loud voices, and later to understand what was spoken in a loud tone of voice. She improved rapidly after this, and was quite well by the middle of January. She continued under observation another fortnight, and remained quite well. Teissiee.—On the internal employment of Turpentine in the headaches of nervous loomen. Gaz. Med. de Lyon, January, 1864. Brit, and Por. Med.-Ch. Eev., July, 1864. This cephalsea is characterised by a pain in the bead, much more continuous and fixed than that of neuralgia, and may last, not only several weeks, but months and entire years, without presenting more than rare and slight intermissions. The pain is sometimes dull, some- times shooting, and sometimes pulsative, occupying only a single point of the head or the whole of the cranium, accompanied by nausea or even vomiting, and complicated besides with much more serious symp- toms, such as vertigo and tendency to syncope, inability to think or work, despondency, weariness of life, and sometimes numbness in the limbs. It is especially observed in nervous women, and often coexists with a- or dys-menorrhoea, or menorrhagia, though it is sometimes met with where the constitution is good and the uterine functions are regular. EosENTHAL, MoE.—Researches and olservations respecting the influence of Cold on Sensory and Motor Nerves. Wien. Med. Halle, v, I—4, 1864. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 184. Eosenthal examined the eftect of cold on compound nerve-trunks by applying ice to the skin, covering them where they were superficial. He examined in this way the ulnar, radial, crural, and peroneal. The first eftect was pain in the part supplied, soon followed by diminution of sensation, and finally by ansesthesia. In the same way the motor function was at first excited, but gradually weakened, and ultimately98 EBPOET ON PEACTIOAL MEDICINE. paralysed. The temperature of the parts supplied by the nerves was at first slightly lowered, and afterwards notably increased by a degree (r2) of Centigrade (•2-1 Fahr.). Simultaneously with this increase of temperature signs of congestion appeared. After the ice was removed the peripheric elevation of temperature continued a considerable time. The parts adjacent to the seat of increased warmth became notably cooler. He gives the two following cases as examples of paralysis from cold:—A worlinian exposed himself to a cold drauglit, and con- tracted thereby pneumonia of the left side, soon followed by anajsthesia of the left foot as high as the ankle, which soon disappeared. A female after washing in a brook went a long way in a cold wind. The next morning pains set in in both the left limbs, which ceased spontaneously in a few days, and gave place to cutaneous anesthesia, which spread over the whole arm, even above the shoulder, and extended over the foot and leg. The anaesthesia was of both touch, pain, and temperature. Electro-muscular sensibility and contractility were moderately lessened, voluntary motion was difficult, and walking, especially in the dark, was very unsteady. The power of estimating weight was defective. No hysterical symptoms existed. By the application of the interrupted and continuous currents from the cord to the nerves, and from the nerves to the muscles, recovery was effected in 8 weeks. Teotjsseatj.—On N'eiiralgias. L'Union, 18, 20, 21, 1864. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 293. Trousseau states, as the result of large experience, that in every neuralgia the spinous processes of certain vertebrae are painful on pressure, especially those at the level where the diseased nerves come off" from the cord. Exactly the same holds good in the case of tri- geminal neuralgia, whether, as usually occurs, the occipital nerve is simultaneously affected or not. In this case both cervical (uppermost) vertebrae are painful. As long as a peripheral pain remains local, and there is no increased sensibility of the cord, so long the vertebrae also are free from tenderness. But if the organism reacts to the painful irritation, e.g. that of pain in the side from an injury, the pain of pleuritis, or that produced by a biliary calculus, then spinal ten- derness shows itself, then the pain becomes converted into a neuralgia. Valleix's description of the painful points in intercostal neuralgia is not quite confirmed by Trousseau. He says there are only two which are constantly met with, viz. the spinous-process one, and that cor- responding to the junction of the cartilage \vith the rib. In crural neuralgia the spinous processes of the last dorsal vertebraj, in sciatic the sacral spines are painful. If the neuralgia changes its seat, the spinal pain varies correspondingly. Erom intercostal neuralgia the pain of pleuritis is distinguished by being confined to the part of the chest situated behind a vertical liue drawn downwards from the nipple from that attendant on commencing tuberculosis by the situation of the latter in the first intercostal space close to the sternum. Trousseau notices the remarkable preference shown by certain general disorders for special localities, as, for instance, the affection of the fifth nerve and the solar plexus in chlorosis, that of the gastric nerves in ex-NERVOUS SYSTEM. 99 i Jiaustion froui uterine hsBmorrhage or leucorrhcea, that of the supra- orbital nerve in malarious intoxication. No explanation has been given of the interuiittency of neuralgia in certain cases where the cause is persistent. Trousseau has twice observed the most violent pains in the lumbo-sacral plexus occurring, with regular intermissions, produced by- cancer and fibroid tumour of the uterus. The extension of an existing neuralgia to other nerves is produced by the secondary weakness of the organism and the great irritabilitj^ of the whole nervous system to which this gives rise. The other branches of the same trunk are the first to be involved, and then the other branches of the plexus to which it belongs. V. rEAifQiiE, A.—On Prosopalgia. Wiirzb. Med. Ztachr., 4, 1863, p. 134. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 294. Pranque relates the case of a girl who suff'ered with this disorder from her 13 th to her 19th year, apparently as the result of a severe attack of typhus. She was tall, but pale, weak, and amenorrheal, and the genital organs and mammae were only in a rudimentary condition. The neuralgia afiiected sometimes one, sometimes another division, sometimes appeared periodically, resisted obstinately all measures, and was even aggravated by the interrupted and continuous current, so as to affect both sides. Twice the application of leeches to the perinaeum caused it completely to disappear; the amenorrhoea, however, continued. CosTES (Journ. de Bord., April, 1864; Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, p. 169) relates a case of histrionic facial spasm (Mimischer Gesichts- krampf) cured by the inhalation of chloroform, followed by its local application for several days. The patient had been treated fruitlessly for 11 months previously by valerianate of atropia, quinine, assafoetida, and anthelmintics. ScHUH.—On resections of Nerves. Wien. Med. "Wochenschr., 13, i—5, 9, 10, II, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 217. Schuh makes the following general remarks as a sequel to 11 cases of neuralgia and 3 of neuroma in which he divided the nerves involved. The pain during the paroxysms of facial neuralgia may extend from the affected side to the other. The paroxysm exhausts the morbid sen- sibility for some time, so that immediately after it has ceased the contact of an instrument or the finger is readily borne, which would otherwise have been extremely painful. The pathological alteration which essentially gives rise to facial neuralgia consists most frequently in a transformation of the nerve-medulla into a fine granular mass, which reflects light in the same way as fat-globules do, and may or may not be blended with calcareous deposits. This change is the result of previous inflammation; the neurilemma is often manifestly reddened and thickened. Kesection of the nerve acts beneficially even in those cases where the mischief is more deeply seated than the surgeon's knife can reach. It is, however, necessary in such cases to divide all the twigs given off from the diseased branch beyond the affected spot, so as to cut off the sensory filaments from the more centrally seated trunk, and to do away with all conduction of impressions to it. "When sensory or compound nerves are wounded, so as to divide transversely about half the cord, no remarkable derangement often ensues in thellEPOUT OX I'llACriCAL MEDICINK. 100 oouduction of tbe nervous influence, and also no special pheuomeuu, Buch as spasmodic contractions, &c., provided only that the limb remains quiet, and is so placed that tlie nerve is not subjcfted to tension. Schuh has often observed this in the median, ulnar, and radial nerves in the forearm after accidental injuries. If, on the contrary, the wounded nervous cord, from its position or any other cir- cumstance, is rendered more or less tense, pain and spasmodic con- tractions are produced. If a purely sensory nerve is cut across, and the ends are not separated by movements of the limb, sensation is restored again in a few days. In the case of motor and compound nerves the motor disorder lasts much longer, and may even be per- manent. Facial paralysis induced by division of the " plexus anserinus" in the vicinity of the ear lasts for at least 3 months. If all the filaments are divided, so that the orbic. palpebrarum and corrugator supercilii are paralysed, the distortion sometimes persists for the remainder of life. Motor nerves require for the exercise of their function a much greater perfection of structure than sensory, and the restoration of the integrity of the nerve is less easily effected. Schuh has not yet found the peripheral end of a resected nerve in a state of atrophy ; in some observations, he says, weeks or mouths had elapsed after the operation without any such alteration having ensued. Nervous anastomoses are a second cause of the speedy return of sensation in cases of resection; a third is the advancing growth of adjacent nerves into the paralysed district, a process which goes on often with surprising rapidity. COEKIL, V.—On the alterations tvMcJi ensue in Nerves and Muscles in cases of Semiplegic Contracture. Gaz. de Paris, 11,1864. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, p. 165. Cornil has examined in 6 cases of hemiplegia occurring after softening of the brain, and in i consecutive to apoplexy, the nerves and muscles of the permanently conti-acted limb, and has constantly found the fol- lowing alterations, which were most marked in the median nerve. The whole nerve was enlarged so as to be even twice the size of the healthy one; and the increase in size depended on hypertrophy of the areolar tissue surrounding and between the primitive fasciculi, while the nerve- fibres themselves were perfectly normal. The terminations of the sensory nerves in the skin were also normal. Morbid changes were found in the nervous centres, in the corp. striata, thalami optici, crura cerebri, and pons of the same side, and the pyramid of the op- posite, consisting in atrophy and fatty degeneration, and the presence of numerous glomeruli. The contracted muscles had lost their lively red colour, appeared yellowish or brownish, and were atrophied. True fatty degeneration was rarely found, but there were numerous molecular granules in the tissue, which dissolved in acetic acid and soda, and the nuclei of the sarcolemma were proliferating. The cerebral affection was from I to several years old. In 4 cases the contracture affected only the most distal parts of the limb, in the other it extended further in the direction of the trunk. In all but one case the cutaneous sensibility was normal in all respects, and reflex movements were produced wiien it was tested. The contracted limbs were always atrophied, especially101 PSYCHIATUIK. I the muscles of the thumb and little finger, and the interossei. Volun» tarj motor power was abolished in all but one instance. PSYCHIATBIIC. Saxkky, W. H. 0.— The pathology of General Paresis. Journal of Mental Science, Jan., 1864. Sankey poses the question, whether there is such a disease as general paresis, distinct from all other diseases in its etiology, progress, and pathology 1 Taking for inquiry first the history of the disease, he says, if the symptoms are epiphenomena only, or complications engrafted upon another disease, or arise at any epoch during its progress, then, firstly, all second and third attacks of insanity should be equally liable to have the epiphenomena engrafted upon them as first attacks ; and secondly, the symptoms should occur in old cases, or in cases in which the patient has been insane many years, as often as in cases of more recent origin. With regard to the first point, Sankey states that, out of 61 patients suffering under general paresis, among a total of 2280, there is not one who can be strictly said to be affected with a second attack of insanity. With regard to the second point he finds, from an examination of 105 fatal cases of general paresis, that at the end of 5 years 90 per cent, were dead. The evidence, therefore, afforded by the history is strongly opposed to the view that the symptoms are mere epiphenomena. Next, as to etiology, Saukey concludes, with regard to hereditary influence, that the data he adduces are, upon the whole, favorable to the view that general paresis is distinct from other cases of insanity, both in the difference in degree by which it is liable to be transmitted and also because there is strong presumptive evidence that the species when transmitted is transmitted in kind. Other testimony which Sankey has collected relative to the state of the propensities and passions appears to show that the predisposing causes which lead to general paresis are of peculiar kind, and i-ather favours the opinion of the specific nature of the disease. It is corroborated by a fact stated by Dr. Connolly, to the effect that in his large experience he has never met with a case of general paresis among females of the upper classes in society. The predisposition to the disease would appear to stand in the following order:—(i) Males of the lower classes, (2) males of the upper, (3) females of the lower, (4) females of the upper. And this order of sequence may be considered to be also that of the subjugation of the animal passions in the different classes. Under the head of pathology, Sankey gives a table stating in detail the post-mortem alterations found in 15 cases of general paresis compared with 15 cases of other forms of insanity. The greatest difference that, from the com- parison, was found to exist, was in the frequency of occurrence of I effusion beneath the arachnoid, which was found 11 times in the 15 cases of general paresis and 3 times in the other cases. A similar dis- crepancy existed in the increased vascularity of the pia mater, which occurred in every case of general paresis and in 7 of the other cases, i Adhesion of the pia mater to the gray matter occurred in 8 of the 15 i cases of general paresis and in one of the other cases. This appearanceUEPORT ON PllACTICAL MEDICINE. is not, therefore, patliognomouic of the affection. The next most frequent dilTereuco was found in the state of the convolutions, which were abnormally open and wider apart in 9 of the cascH of f^eneral paresis and in 3 of the other cases. Injection of the white substance existed in 12 of the cases of general paresis and in 6 of the other cases. The colour of the gray matter was found to be darker than normal in 8 cases of general paresis and in 3 of the other cases. The layers of the gray matter were indistinctly marked in 10 of the cases of general paresis and in 6 of the other cases, and the white matter firm in 8 of the paretic cases and in 4 of the rest. On the other hand, the periosteum of the calvaria was found more frequently normal in the paretic cases in the proportion of 12 to 4 of the other cases. There was a difference also between the colour of the gray matter, which was lighter than normal in 11 of the other cases and only in 3 of the paretic;. and the pia mater stripped readily from the convolutions in 14 of the other cases against 7 of the cases of general paresis. These facts are evidence in favour of the difference of general paresis from other cases of insanity, although they fix upon no particular morbid appearance as distinctly pathognomonic of the affection. Under the head of microscopical anatomy Sankey quotes first the observations of Wedl and Bokitansky relative to the formation of connective tissue on the outer walls of the vessels, and the bulging and quasi-aneurismal dilatation of the same. He adds, " My own examinations of the capillaries in about 20 cases of insanity, and of which 7 were from patients who died of general paresis, led me to the conclusion that the capillaries of the cortical substance are more or less diseased in every case of general paresis. I do not find, how- ever, that the amount of alteration bears any relation to the date, degree of imbecility, or impaired motility; nor' have I detected any correspondence between the diseased condition and the etiology ; but, on the'other hand, I have not found the same amount of abnormal appearance in the capillaries of the other cases." There appears to be some amount of tortuosity in the capillaries in every case of general paresis. This tortuosity in places amounts to a simple sharp curve or twist, in places to a kinking of the vessel; in others to more complex twisting, until it forms, in fact, little knots of varicose vessels of very complicated kind. Sankey has not found this appearance in any otlier form of mental disease, but it is described as existing in other cases by Eokitansky and "Wedl. He confirms the observations of the German pathologists as to the presence of hyaline deposit around the capillaries, which proceeds from a material thrown out by them; subsequently this contracts, and in so doing throws the capillary into bends or kinks; that as it goes on contracting it becomes less hyaline, more fibrous, and at length like a sheath; but if converted into fibres it has no share in the formation of the innumerable fibres that can be seen lacing and interlacing across the field when a portion of gray matter from a paretic brain is under the microscope. These are probably formed, as Rokitansky describes thejn to be, from hypertrophy and induration of the normal^ fjiffused, formlpsp pounpcting stroma, This change is not of inflammatory f Jiaraoter,103 PSYCHIATEIK. Westphai-.C.—Cases of Tabes dorsalis {gray degeneration oftlie posterior columns and Paralysis universalis progressiva). Journal of Mental Science, July, 1864. TiGGES.—On Dementia paralytica progressiva. Allg. Ztschr. f. &f-# Psychiatrie, 20, 4, p. 318, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 121, p. 231. Sebvaes.—Allg. Ztschr. f. Psychiatr., 20, i, p. 51, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 121, p. 232. Geiesingee, "W.—On the grouping and diagnosis of Mental Disorders. Journal of Mental Science, Jan., 1864. Stewaut, H. G., M.D.—On hereditary Insanity. Journal of Mental Science, April, 1864. Stewart has gone carefully over the records of the Crichtou Institu- tion at Dumfries, embracing a period of 24 years, and containing the general history of 901 cases. During the first 10 years pauper as weU as private patients were admitted, but subsequently only private, so that the cases belonging to the middle and uiaper classes of society pre- dominate. In considering in detail the following questions relative to hereditary insanity Stewart gives at the same time a general view of the results obtained by other investigations in such a form that they may be easily compared with those which he brings forward :—(I) The proportion of the insane having an hereditary predisposition to the disease. Authorities vary much in their computations of the frequency of hereditary tr-msmission, and this variation may be accounted for in many ways. Among the poor little is known of ancestry ; among the rich, on the contrary, every information may be obtained, but not in- frequently it is partly or entirely withheld. Some authors call only those cases hereditaiy in which mental disease has been known to exist in the direct line; but it is important to remark, says Guislain, that the transmission is not always direct; that the father of an insane person may not have been affected, while the grandfather, or aunt, or uncle, or cousin, may have presented symptoms. In asylums where acute cases only are received it may be easily understood that heredi- tary tendency does not reach a figure so elevated as in those where epileptics, idiots, imbeciles, and incurables are received. When mental disease appears in an individual some authors recognise it as hereditary if the parents have suffered from any nervous disease, while others hold that unless the parents have been actually insane (some even de- manding that the insanity be of the same form) there is no evidence of hereditary transmission. The above statements explain the great dis- crepancy observable among the following figures:—Esquirol in the Salpfetrifere found a per-centage of i3'3o, in his private house of 34*80, at Charenton of 31*34. Guislain states it at 30 in one computation, in a second at 5*96. Hoist makes it 69, Jessen 65, Parchappe 15, Aubanel and There 4*37, Michea 50 to 75, Damerow 24-29, Webster 32, Brigham 26*67, TIauruam 32^6 or including collateral 47*7, Hayner 11*97, Burrows 85'7i, Noble 40, Hood 9*59, Morel 20, Marcel 42*85 in one and in another computation 90, Howe 84*52, Moreau (de Tours) 90, Ellis 15*36. Stewart's general conclusion is that it may fairly be inferred that the more perfect our information concerning thertKPOllT ON PRACTICAL MKIHCINE. 101. patients, the higher, up to a certain point, will be the per-centage of hereditary cases. In all nervous disorders, convulsive, choreic affec- tions, stammering, &c., Moreau detects a tendency to nervous disease and to insanity that may be transmitted, Renaudin observes it is not at the first step that mental alienation ordinarily becomes the result, and two or three generations may pass, having proteoform modifications of nervous disease, before arriving at the final result—insanity. In examining the condition as to hereditary transmission of the cases Tinder hia observation, Stewart carefully ascertained whether there existed, or had existed, in the direct line or in collateral branches of the patient's family insanity or eccentricity, and, if so, what relative had been aflected. When a cousin in the Jlrsi degree or any nearer relative had suffered from such disease the case was placed in the first hereditary class. In the second class were placed those whose relatives had suffered from hereditary disease not insanity, or in whose parents there was found some disease or condition which had apparently pro- duced the insanity in their offspring. The third class comprises <iie cases in whose families, it was stated, no hereditary disease of any kind existed; and in the fourth class the condition as to hereditary ten- dency was unknown. Of the 901 eases, 447, or 49-61 per cent., belonged to the first class; 49, or 5*43 per cent., belonged to the second; 245, or 27-19 per cent., belonged to the third; and 160, or i77_5 per cent., to the fourth. In 181 of the cases only one relative of the patient was known to be insane, whilst in 266 cases more than one relative had been affected. The results approach very nearly those obtained by Thurnam at the Retreat, with which they may be fairh'' compared when he takes into consideration the insanity of collateral relatives. The per-centage falls far below the estimates of the later French and some English authors, owing to the wider view they hold of what constitutes hereditary predisposition. Question II relates to the numbers of the hereditarily predisposed whose parents, or collateral relatives, were affected. Stewart divides the 447 cases into five classes, according to the propinquity of the nearest relative known to be, or to have been, insane. The first class contains those cases in which mental disease had appeared in the direct line—whose parents or other an- cestors had been insane. The number of these was 215, 127 being male and 88 female. In the second are those whose brothers or sisters had been insane. The number of these cases was 143, males 79 -f females 64. In the third are those having uncles or aunts so affected; their total was 34, males 18 -f females 16. In the fourth, comprising 18 (males 10 + females 8), those with cousins insane ; and in the fifth, comprising 37 (males 19 + 18), those whose near relatives—relationship being un- known—had been insane. Question III relates to the influence of sex in transmitting insanity. "When both parents have been insane it is concluded there is small chance of escape for the offspring; but even in such a case the disease may only appear in some of the children, while the rest may be exempt, at all events from an actual outburst of tlie malady. Esquirol first observed that insanity is oftener transmitted by the mother than by the father, and that the former may also during her pregnancy and lactation communicate disease to her offspring. Thepsychiathik. 105 observations of Thurnam, Brigliara, and Baillarger, have confirmed these statements. Thurnam puts the paternal influence in all cases under observation at 8-3 per cent., the maternal at 8\^. Brigham's cor- responding figures are 67 and 77, those of the Crichton institution p-i and 7°5. Stewart consequently rates the maternal infiuence less highly than the paternal. Another question of importance arises under this head—Is tlie insanity of the mother more dangerous to the females than to tlie males ? Thurnam and Baillarger answer in the affirmative, and the latter further observes that the father's insanity is slightly more dangerous to the sons than the mother's, whilst the mother's is twice as dangerous to the daughters. Thurnam's figures show that the paternal influence produces insanity in 8-5 per cent, of the males and 8-1 per cent, of the females; the maternal in yd per cent, of the males and 9'3 per cent, of the females. Brigham's corresponding figures are, for the paternal influence /'o; per cent, in the case of males and 6'3 per cent, in that of females, for the maternal 5-9 per cent, in the case of males and 9-5 per cent, in tliat of females. Stewart's own experience shows the paternal influ- ence to be marked in 9-4 per cent, of males and 87 percent, of females, the maternal in yi per cent, of males and 8'i percent, of females. Dr. Burrows considers that a child physically resembling its insane parent will more probably suffer from mental disease than one re- sembling the sound parent. This, indeed, seems a natural conclusion. We have, how'ever, Moreau, on the other hand, stating that there is a law by which theseries of organs which holds under its dependence the psycho- cerebral organization, and that which gives the resemblance or analogy of physiognomy, are transmitted separately from the parents to their descendants. So, every time that an individual has presented an analogy of physiognomy more or less striking with one of his parents, he owed to the other parent his cerebral organization, as the presence of the hereditary evil has attested. Question IV relates to the influ- ence of sex in receiving insanity hereditarily. Hood's numbers are 8"58 per cent, of males to io'6a of females, Guislain's 475 of males to 7'i72 of females, Thurnam's 32"82 ofmales to 35'48 of females, Esquirol's 32'2o of males to 24-66 of females, Stewart's 48'56 of males to 51 "05 of females. These show sufficiently the greater liability of the female sex to suffer from hereditary insanity than the male. Question V relates to the frequency of the different forms of insanity among hereditary cases. Stewart admits that all vai'ieties of mental disease are trans- mitted, and that a different form may appear in the child from what existed in the parents. Not only actual insanity in its various forms ia transmitted, but also numerous forms of nervous ^disorder, as epilepsy, chorea, paralysis, convulsions, hypochondriasis, eccentricity, immoral tendencies, stupidity, waywardness. To these Whitehead and Marce add obliteration of one or more of the sensorial faculties, such as hearing or sight; and the former observes in such cases a vicarious action by which the child born blind or deaf of insane parents is often in no way defective in its mental faculties. Not only this, but sometimes mem- bers of families in which nervous disease, and even insanity itself, is present, are gifted with genius, while they may even in their own106 UEl'ORT ON I'EACTICAL MEDICINE, persons be subject to dernngcmeutB of the nervous system betraying the existence of the diathesis. The hereditary tendency to suicide is illus- trated in many instances. AH forms of insanity—mania, melancholia, monomania, and general paralysis—appear reciprocally to reproduce each other ; and just as we have in the course of an individual case varying forms of mental disease, so in the line in which hereditary predisposi- tion exists we find in the same way similar varieties of disease appear- ing in dift'erent individuals of the race. Stewart gives the following figures as showing the proportions of hereditary cases in the difierent forms of insanity. In mania the number was 51 percent., in melan- cholia 577 per cent., in monomania 49 per cent., in moral insanity 50 per cent., in idiocy and imbecility 36 per cenb., in dipsomania 63 "4 per cent., in general paralysis 47-6 per cent., in dementia and fatuity 39"^ per cent. The various forms assumed in hereditary insanity have a striking analogy in those of hereditary tubercular disease ; for just as we have imbecility, idiocj^, mania, and other forms of insanity, coming on at various periods of life, so we find hydrocephalus, tabes mesente- rica, scrofulous enlargement of the lymphatic glands, and phthisis pul- monalis, appearing at different periods of development. As in the former case we observe one form of insanity being transmitted and appearing in the next generation in a different form, so also in the latter we have difi"erent forms of the tubercular disease apparently generating each other, in an infected race. Question VI relates to the age on first attack in hereditary cases of insanity. Esquirol observes that in here- ditary cases the disease often comes on at the same period of life as in the progenitors. HdrkliU appearing at the same time of life, and piirsuing the same course in the offspring as it did in the parent, is called by Moreau perfect. Mental derangement is not likely to occur until the mind is fully develiped. Should it appear before this period, or just at it, without ther6 being any other cause likely to induce disease, it is probable that the source will be found in hereditary pre- disposition. Crichton states that after the age of 30, sometimes much earlier in life, the hereditarily pi'edisposed to melancholy begin to have indescribable sensations of anxiety and internal uneasiness, of which they can give no good account, resulting in an attack of mania. Dr. Maudsley observes that hereditary mania is apt to appear at the age of puberty, and that in the decline of life melancholia and hypochondriasis, having a similar origin, become established. From a table Stewart gives of his own experience, and that of Thurnam, it appears that the predisposed cases are apt to suffer earlier in life than other cases, that they suffer more at the age of puberty and manhood, and decidedly less as old age approaches. In the Crichton cases 50-97 per cent, occurred before the age of 30, and 73"28 before the age of 40. Question YII relates to the number of attacks in hereditary cases. From Stewart's experience, and that of Thurnam and Hood, it results that hereditary cases have a much greater tendency to relapse than other cases, the per-centage of not first attacks being in the former 35-3 3, in the latter ao, 22, or 32. This point in their history may be still more forcibly illustrated. The number of individuals readmitted during the last 24 years to th'i Crichton institution is 78, and of these in less than 51PSYCHIATE.IK. 107 belonff to the hereditary class of cases. Some of these patients have beeu admitted from 2 to 10 times. This tendency of hereditary ia- sauity to recur is one of its most important characteristics, and claims our special attention in the prevention, prognosis, and treatment of such cases. Much may be done, especially in those belonging to the upper and middle classes, to prevent the recurrence of the malady. Question VIII refers to the domestic condition of those having heredi- tary insanity. The per-centage of married persons among the heredi- tary cases was 2975, of single 66-^^, of widowed ; the correspond- ing numbers among the non-hereditary are 28-4, 64-2, and y-j.. On the whole, it will be seen that at the time of attack fewer hereditary cases are or have been married; and it is somewhat interesting to notice the marked lowness of the per-centage among the widowed, probably owing to the hereditary disease appearing earlier in life. Question IX refers to the proportion of recoveries and deaths in the hereditary and non-hereditary cases. The per-centage of recoveries is higher among the hereditary cases than among the non-hereditary ones, 36'9 : 32'2 ; while the per-centage of death is lower among the former (20'6) and higher among the latter (22'8). Hood's experience agrees with Stewart's, the high per-centage of recoveries (6o'3) among the hereditary cases is very remarkable, and indicates the curability in the early attacks of this form of mental disease. Question X relates to the duration of life in hereditary insanity. Stewart believes that the dura- tion of life is shorter among this class than it is among the insane generally. The per-centage of deaths occurring before the age of 50 is 65*37 in hereditary cases, and according to Thurnam 36'68 in cases generally. The mass of the hereditaiy cases die between the ages of 30 and 60, while the massof the insane generally die between the ages of 40 and 70. Sandeh.—On Blieimatism andlfental Disorder. Ztschr. f. Psychiatrie, 1863, p. 214. Journ. of Mental Science, Jan., 1864, p. 581, Sander gives 5 cases, with the following conclusions:—(i) That severe mental disorder may occur, not only during the persistence of acute rheumatism in the joints, but be prolonged for a month or upwards after this has ceased. (2) This mental lesion manifests itself without fever, usually with the character of depression, and often as decided melancholia with stupor. A state of excitement may follow, or be intercurrent with the melancholia. (3) Now and then convulsive or choreitic movements complicate the mental disturbance. (4) The pro- gnosis is very favorable; and recovery, so far as the few recorded cases go to show, comes most rapidly and surely when a fresh attack of rheu- matism supervenes in the course of the cerebral affection. It may generally be assumed that the brain affection and the rheumatism stand more closely related than do the chronic cerebral disorders consequent upon other acute diseases ; as, for instance, typhus, where autemia ot the brain, or some other general cause, may be assigned as the basis of the psychosis. The question for solution is whether this association of rheumatism and insanity is attributable to the rheumatic poison acting upon the cerebrum md producing a form of rheumatic meuingitia,108 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. DuMESNiL.—Liferential diagnosis of an attack of actual Mental Disorder from the Delirium accompanying or f receding Typhus. Ann. Med. Psych., July, 1863. Schmidt's .Tahrb., vol. 123, p. 85. Dumesnil thinks that the presence or absence of albumen in the urine will aflbrd valuable information in many cases, as it is very generally present in typiius, and often also in other disorders, as rheu- matism and pneumonia, attended with delirium. Gbaser.— 'Report of the Asylums at Eberhech and Eichberg during the period from 1843 to 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123," p. 88. We have only space for some notice of the causes. The chief of these is hereditary tendency; insanity occurred among the relatives of the patients in 33 per cent. In 55 instances out of 891 the disease was transmitted directly by the father, in 57 by the mother, in 151 some of the nearest blood relations were insane. The paternal influence appears to have more effect on the sons, the maternal on the daughters. Many lauiilies decay for several generations in consequence of hereditary dis- position to psychical disorders. It was seldom that j^sychical influences could be shown to have exerted a direct influence in the production of insanity. The missions of the Liguorians almost invariably give rise to mental disorders; political events seem to have no such influence. Long- continuing depressing emotions are often regarded as exciting causes, but the cause of the depression is generally of such a kind that it re- mains doubtful how much importance is to be attributed to it and how much to the mental .state. Thus, mental anxiety is often the result of poverty and hard toil. Venereal excesses and onanism were not found to have induced insanity in any instance. Drunkenness had this effect in only 22 males and i female. The influence of the puerperal condi- tion was apparent in 8'3 per cent. ; out of all the patients who became pregnant while insane only one was cured. Among febrile diseases typhus appeared esj^ecially effective in giving rise to mental derange- ment ; cachectic and ansemic conditions are frequently met with. With respect to the subjects of general paralysis, it appeared that 3o"2 per cent, of such patients had led dissipated lives, indulging to excess (in baccho et venere), but mostly many years previously ; prior syphihtic infection had occurred in 1^ 6 per cent. Undoubtedly, however, well- known steady men were also aiFected in the'same way, although they had lived in the simplest manner and out of the range of all excite- ment. Among the patients there was a considerable number of those who, during theii' disease, had committed criminal acts, and whose in- sanity W'as first discovered in the inquiry to which these gave rise. Not unfrequently patients were transferred from the house of correc- tion to the asylum, especially females, several of whom suffered from the form of disorder termed excandescentia furibunda (nymphomania). Terminations.—Of the total number of patients, 241 were cured, 102 improved, 223 died. The duration of treatment until recovery ensued varied between 2 months and 2 years; most recoveries occurred in the period between the third and uiiith mouth after admission, and it may be stated generally that the prognosis became worse in proportion to the duration of the disease. However, recoveries took place in tolerable109 PSYCHIATEIK. number at a later period, extending up to even 12 years of detention in the asylum. WiLKS, S., M.D.—Clinical notes on Atroi^ly of the Brain. Journal of Mental Science, Oct., 1864. This paper is valuable for reference, but scarcely admits of being abstracted. Nasse, 'W—Influence of Ague on Insanity. AUg. Ztschr. f. Psych., 21, p. I, 1864. Schmidt's Jahrb. vol. 124, p. 77. The observations of the author extend over a period of g\ years, and relate to 76 insane persons, in whom the influence of ague, by which they were repeatedly attacked, could be accurately traced. Tertian was the most common form, succeeded by gastric symptoms lasting even during the apyretic intervals. The use of febrifuge medicines was foi'- bome so long as the attacks remained uncomplicated by any inflam- matory local complications, and the dropsical and anaemic accidents did not become marked enough to excite any anxiety. In 26 cases the influence of ague exerted a beneficial eftect, resulting in 2 cases in complete recovery, in 3 in permanent improvement, in 14 in transitory, but continuing longer than the attacks, while in 7 it was of shorter duration, and ceased with the febrile paroxysm. In 39 cases no result was obtained, and in 3 the ague appeared to be injurious. In the re- maining 6 cases improvement, which had already commenced, was not at all checked by the fever. Arranging the cases according to their psychical forms, we have a favorable efiect produced in 3 out of 4 cases of melancholia, in 3 out of 4 cases of mania, in 8 out of 25 cases of delusion (most of them attended with hallucinations), in i out of 26 eases of dementia and of secondary idiocy, in none of 4 cases of epilepsy attended with mental disorder. Of the 26 patients, 4 only bad been ill more than 5 years, 6 for a less period than 2, in the re- maining 16 the disorder had existed from 2 to 5 years. A more favorable prognosis may be given in primary forms of psychical dis- order, and in those cases where the disease has lasted but a short time, with respect to the influence of an intercurrent ague on the mental malady. The conditions on which the beneficial influence of ague in cases of insanity depends appear to be best explained by assuming that the fever acts in a reflex manner on the cerebral circulation. The ague sets up a violent and acute vascular excitement, and thereby in- duces a revolution in the general circulation, which must have an eflfect on that -within the cranium, as is evidenced by the generally great con- gestion of the head and the frequent epistaxes which occur during ague fits. The acceleration of the general circulation thence resulting must dissipate old-standing partial stagnations, induce a rapid afflux of new and qualitatively different blood, must reanimate to a certain extent diseased parts of the brain, and the frequent recurrence of these conditions must be of especial advantage in chronic congestions of torpid character. Trom this view we can understand why mild agues of short duration exert no or but little influence, and why numerous cases of old-standing derangement undergo no perceptible change. According to Nasse's observations, ague is to be regarded as an un- commonly powerful psychical agent as a cerebral remedy. The well-llEPORT ON PUACTICAL MEDICINE. 110 knowu beneficial influence of typhus in insanity may be quoted as au analogous operation. AVixiiAMS, S. "W. O., MJy.—Bemarhs on the refusal of food hy the Insane. Journ. of Ment. Sci., Oct., 1864. "Williams distingftishcs an asthenic form and a sthenic. In the former recourse must be had to treatment immediately, the least delay is most pernicious. The bowels are to be thorouglily cleared of scybala by ail enema of castor oil and turpentine, after which the patient will often fall into a refreshing sleep, and on awaking take his food willingly. If he does not, he must be fed forcibly. Hydrocyanic acid is often of great efficacy. In the sthenic form there is generally mania, and always pertinacious insomnia. After constipation has been removed, or diarrhoea arrested, we must not delay more than 48 hours before (if persuasion fliil) we resort to forced alimentation; for if we wait much longer the symptoms soon assume all the characters of the asthenic type. Timely administration of nourishment prevents all this, and allows of a medicinal treatment being initiated. This should consist in the energetic administration of opiates and the use of the hot bath, with cold applications to the head every evening. Williams prefers a spoon and india-rubber bottle to the stomach-pump and nasal tube, aa safer appliances, there being no danger of sending the food into the lungs or of piercing the aorta, which have happened with the ; latter. MTJSCTJLAE SYSTEM. Baeeee, E.—Progressive atrophy of tlie Tongue and Muscles of Speech. Proc. of Med. and Chir. Soc, 1864, p. 359, vol. 4. The patient was a male, set. 51, who had enjoyed excellent health till May, 1859, when a slight difficulty of speech, accompanied _ by general'failui-e of health and strength, induced him to seek medical advice. ' These symptoms, without any apparent cause, with the addition of impairment of deglutition, continued to increase ; and in the follow- ing September, after some months' residence at the seaside, the tongue had assumed the following remarkable appearance—small and shrunken, it lay low in the floor of the mouth, and over its whole surface was noticed an unceasing tremulation of the fibrils of its muscular struc- ture ; it had lost its bright healthy hue, and was of a pale-yellow colour. The face had also lost its ordinary expression; the cheeks and lips were flaccid and himg down. Saliva frequently dribbled from the mouth. No symptom whatever of irritation of brain or spinal cord was ever present, but the muscular tissue in different parts continued to waste and degenerate with unrelenting pertinacity. Gradually articulation became unintelligible, and deglutition impossible. The fibrillary tremors so noticeable during the wasting of the muscles ceased with their destruction. From the tongue to the muscles of deglutition, thence to those of the upper and from these to the lower extremities, the dis- ease extended. At length the intercostals were aflected; and the breathing consequently became at times much laboured, as each morn- ing brought increasing difficulty in the necessary expulsion of mucusCIRCULATORY SYSTEM. Ill collected in the bronchial tubes during the previous night. Great ex- haustion followed these attacks, and on the morning of Oct. i^, 1861, he oradually sunk. Various remedies had been tried for many weeks tof^ether, but none seemed in any way to arrest the steady progress of the disease. Cod-liver oil, quinine, iron in various forms, zinc, strychnia, and the constant use of galvanism, were the principal agents employed. The post-mortem examination of the tongue went to prove that it had been converted in its entire extent into a soft, pale-yellow mass of fatty tissue. The papilla? were shrunken, and of the lingual muscles only the genio-hyo-glossi and stylo-hyo-glossi retained any manifest traces of their form and structure. The nerves of the tongue,_ so far as traceable, were natural; the muscular fibres in the arches of the palate and in the uvula were chiefly natural, save here and there. The same granular appearance was noticed in the pectoralis major, and in a portion of the left ventricle of the heart, and in the left side of the diaphragm. In^all, the muscular fibre was in great part natural, though each specimen 'in an equal degree contained stray fibres which were losing the clearness of their transverse markings, and becoming granular Avith fatty deposit. The examination, worked out with the greatest care and by accurate observers, failed to bring satisfactory evidence of any change in the nervous tissue supplying the afiected muscles, either in their central or peripheric extremities; but, on the contrary, it tended to strengthen the prevalent opinion, that the disease is essen- tially one of the muscular tissue itself. CIHCULATOEY SYSTEM. Oemeeod, E. L., M.D.—Review of the present state of Cardiac Pa- thology. Brit. Med. Journ., Aug. 6. Under the head of pericardial affections, Ormerod notices tubercular pericarditis, which he describes as slow, for the most part painless, with long persistence of the auscultatory sign, and having always, as far as he has seen, a fatal issue. It stands in the strongest contrast to the rheumatic form of the disease. With regard to the anatomical changes which are found in this latter, Ormerod's own experience inclines him strongly to believe that adhesion of the pericardium is in the majority of instances the natural termination of pericarditis. When general adhesion has once been effected, and the two opposing surfaces are firmly agglutinated, he believes these are very rarely separated by sub- sequent inflammatory exudation or set free by absorption of the con- necting fibro-cellular tissue. Cases have, indeed, been recorded, in which, after general pericarditis had pursued its natural course, the pericardium has been found free from any trace of the previous inflam- mation. But these seem to be exceptional cases, and they scarcely justify our claiming for the pericardium a power of repair greater than that of the other serous membranes ; for he finds, on analysis of a large number of cases, that observations of adherent pericardium after death bear tlie same ratio to observations of pericarditis during life as any other anatomical lesion does to its observed symptoms. As far as he hasREPOaT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 112 seen directly, or can infer indirectly, the pericardium becomes adliereut after inflammation, and, once adherent, nearly always remains adherent. Next, as to the efi'ect of general adhesion of the pericardium on the action of tho heart. The mere fact that there are no certain symptoms by which the existence of general adhesion can be ascertained during life is of itself almost a conclusive argument against attaching any pathological importance to this condition. When there is no accom- panying valvular disease, no thickening of the investments of the heart by earthy or so-called cartilaginous deposit, the heart does not become enlarged in consequence of general adhesion of the pericardium. The requisite freedom of movement is gained by loosening the fibro-cel- lular tissue outside the pericardium; and, tested by its effects on the heart itself, the alternative of moving on a polished serous surface or in a loose bed of cellular tissue seems indifferent. But Avhere the con- necting medium is an unyielding tissue, earthy or fibrous, it constitutes a most serious impediment to the heart's action, and the effect is most disastrous. As to the quality of the disease, Ormerod says none would doubt the correctness of the characters in which under our own eyes, as it were, pericarditis has been drawn; yet I doubt if any one would now describe pericarditis in the same terms as we used to know. True, there are still cases of pericarditis, happily rare, where human suffering might seem to find its extremest limits compatible with life; and chorea in connection with cardiac inflammation is as dreadful as ever. But, whatever the cause may be, pericarditis, as we see it now, is shorn of more than half its distresses and dangers. It is of less frequent occurrence, and the contingent pulmonary affection is less severe; and I am free to express my belief that the cause of this dif- ference is to be found in the general substitution of an alkaline for a mercurial and antiphlogistic plan of treatment in cases of acute rheu- matism. Under the head of endocardial affections, Ormerod remarks, the motion of the blood in the heart probably produces no appreciable sound in the healthy state. In some cases of acute rheumatism, how- ever, and in certain other cases, a murmur of another kind is occasionally audible. It is soft, but not blowing, somewhat i-esembling the so-called muscular sound. It continues equally through all the period of the first sound, being perceptible all over the cardiac region, but not beyond. It does not follow the rules of any specific valvular murmur, nor does it change into one ; indeed, valvular murmurs are less apt to occur in cases where this murmur is found than in others. It does not occur as an early sign in rheumatism, and it passes gradually away. Ormerod be- lieves this murmur to be an exaggeration of the normal blood element of the first sound. Again, the subject of tricuspid murmurs and tri- cuspid regurgitation is another disputed point incapable of solution by direct experiment. He has frequently tried the experiment of distend- ing the ventricles with water, but lias never felt satisfied that the retaining power of the trioiuspid valve was really less than that of the mitral, nor has he seen anything to countenance the theory of its so-called safety-valve function. The obstruction in the veins is the same whether the blood is prevented from entering the ventricle or whether it is re- gurgitated through the tricuspid valve after it has gained admission into113 CIECULATOllY SYSTEM. the ventricle. Sometimes we seem to find evidence of tricuspid regurgi- tation in the condition of the jugular veins during life ; but these cases are rare, and it is only on tlieoretical grounds that the frequency of tricuspid regurgitation can be maintained. Its advantages appear to be very problematical; it would be only at the best transferring to the brain and other organs the mechanical pressure which would be sus- tained equally well by the lungs, and certainly very much better by the mechanical arrangements of the heart itself If these views be correct, any long inquiry into the ground of the commonly received opinion that tricuspid regurgitation is not usually accompanied by valvular murmur would be superfluous; and the habitual absence of any murmur in cases of obstruction of the right side of the heart, so far from proving that tricuspid regurgitation is unaccompanied by murmur, must in such case be added to the other arguments intended to disprove the opinion of the occurrence of actual tricuspid regurgitation. Tri- cuspid murmurs are occasionally distinctly to be recognised ; but they are rarely audible, for two reasons—first, that they are singularly liable to be drowned in the sound of pulmonary obstructions ; and, secondly, because occurring, as transmitted tricuspid obstruction does, towards the end of heart disease, murmurs on this side of the heart would be even more likely than mitral murmurs to become inaudible through feebleness of the current of blood. Ormerod next insists on the impor- tance of not attempting to deduce from auscultatory signs more than they fairly convey. An unequivocal meaning, regardless of circum- stances, must not be attached to each sound, but we must examine tlfe auscultatory evidence from other points of view, eliminating by the aid of these circumstances the various surd answers till we arrive at the one which alone is compatible with the results obtained in other ways. Ormerod states that under ordinary circumstances the products of inflam- mation undergo the same changes on the valves as elsewhere; the adventitious matter contracts, coalesces with the subjacent membrane, and finally is removed by absorption. In a certain number of cases, however, this perfect repair fails, and inflammation results in permanent injury by induration of the valve. Under affections of the muscular substance Ormerod notices fibrous and fatty degeneration. Of the former he says it occurs chiefly, but not exclusively, in connection with mixed hypertrophy and dilatation, affecting, by preference, the thinner portions of the heart's walls. The muscular tissue, under these circumstances, becomes hard and elastic, the cavity retains its shape when cut open, the muscle creaks under the knife, and the cut surface looks paler than natural, but is of a white rather than a yellow hue. And under the microscope the ex- planation of these changes appears in the substitution or the addition of an unusually large amount of fibrous or fibro-cellular tissue. The term degeneration does not fairly apply to all the conditions under which this change is found to occur. The youth and strength of the patients in whom it is most commonly found, and its habitual con- nection with hypertrophy, make one rather refer it to active nutrition. In accordance with this view, in such cases the struggle for life, the re- sistance to death, is generally strong, and the suffering severe and pro-114. IIEPOUT ON PllACTICAL MEDICINE. tracted. Its occasional connection with the results of previous inflam- mation, ensuing in obliteration of the pericardial cavity Ijy thick unyielding adhesions, is an equivocal inatance, not to be claimed absolutely as either an active or a passive pathological process. Under all other circumstances it generally contrasts strongly with fatty degeneration, and must be clearly distinguished from the simple atrophy of enfeebled muscle. For the design of this fibrous transformation is palpable—it is the substitution of a mechanical for a vital resistance to dilatation. Such a change Ormerod has found in the neck of the uterus ruptured during labour. Here, under the pressure of the uterine muscular tissue, the adventitious fibrous tissue, which could not dilate, was torn across. The pressure of the heart's contraction is probably not so great as, and its function is widely different from, that of the pregnant uterus ; so the results are not so terrible. Hearts which have undergone fibrous degeneration are not liable to rupture. But while this change resists dilatation most efficiently, at the same time it limits the contraction of the chamber of the heart thus involved, and reduces it so far to the condition of a mere containing vessel. In an appendix to his address Ormerod relates, at some length, the results of an inquiry into the chemistry of fatty degeneration, and states his belief that the process by which the muscular structure of the heart is changed during life into fat is essentially a pathological, a vital, not merely a chemical process. The muscular tissue, for experiment, was cut into small pieces, picked as free from adipose tissue as possible, and dried by pressui'e in a clean cloth. Pive hundred gi'ains were then taken for immediate analysis, an equal quantity was placed in one of the decom- posing solutions, and the rest was placed in a corresponding solution for the purpose of trial during the progress of the experiment. The first question is—What are the chemical results of fatty degenera- tion ? The amount of fatty matter present in seemingly healthy hearts varied from o"22 to 2'i4 per cent., the mean of 7 observations being o'gi6. Excluding two observations which contrasted strongly with the rest, the extremes were o'22 and o"54; the mean of these 5 observa- tions being o'455. In 2 hearts marked as granular the fatty matter constituted o'48 and 2 per cent, of the mass experimented on, the mean being i"24 per cent. One marked as distinctly fatty contained 274 per cent. The greatest care was taken in this case to piclc out any portions of adipose tissue from the substance to be analysed, so that the amount of fatty matter found on analysis is rather below than above the truth. Now, though the per-ceiitage of fatty matter in a heart not marked as unhealthy differed very little from that in the fatty heart—as little, indeed, as 2-14 from 274—yet the nature of the fatty matter was very different in the two cases respectively. In the healthy heart it was hard, dry margarine, while in the fatty heart the crystals of margarine swam in the oily part of the extract. One of the granular hearts displayed in a less degree this same excess of oleine. The fair inference seems to be that in fatty degeneration of the heart the fatty matter is increased, and that this is mainly due to an increase of the oleine, which enters only to a small amount into the composition of the fat of a healthy human heart. Tiie second question is—Can115 CmCOLATORY SYSTEM. these I'esults be obtained by acting chemically on healthy muscular sub- stance of the heart by any of the methods employed to form adipocere ? (i) All attempts to convert a definite quantity of muscular fibre into adipocere by a slow stream of water failed. "When the meshes of the net containing the weighed muscle were fine they became clogged, and prevented the free access of water, and the muscle putrefied. Coarser meshes allowed fragments of the softened tissue to escape. Incidentally a curious result was obtained. Some loose fragments of muscle laid in a dish with common water from the tap containing lime in solution Avere converted into adipocere. Some other similar fragments laid in distilled water underwent no such change until pieces of bone were laid in the distilled water, when the formation of adipocere immediately began. (2) A portion of the muscular substance of a heart which had previously been found to contain 2* 14 per cent, of fatty matter, chiefly margarine, was left to soak for 20 months in dilute nitric acid sp. gr. 1*42 (i to 16) in a stoppered bottle. At the end of this time the fatty matters were found to amount to no more than i*i per cent, of the 500 grains operated on. The mass had been changed into a substance having the smell and appearance of ointment of nitrate of mercury. The elements of the fat originally existing in the mass had been newly arranged under the influence of the nitric acid, part having assumed the form of an aromatic ether. Much of the fat had been destroyed, but never at any time during the process was there any evidence of the fat having been increased in quantity. The muscular fibres generally retained their form, clearly recognisable under the microscope. The fibrils were broken off short into minute fragments, but each of these displayed distinctly either the transverse striae or that longitudinal dotting which characterises the stage of granular degeneration already spoken of. Again, 250 grains of pure fibrine from bullock's blood, freed from all fatty matter by ether, were treated in the same way, and for the same period. Not a trace of fat, of any of the oily acids, or of the results of their decomposition, could be found on analysis. (3) A portion of the muscular substance of a heart which had previously been determined to contain 2 per cent, of fatty matter was left to soak for 8 months in dilute alcohol (i to 7) in a stoppered bottle. At the end of this time the mass was found to contain vg2 per cent, of fat and fatty salts of whatever kind. The fat seemed to have been destroyed to this extent by the process to which the muscular fibres had been submitted. To the naked eye the muscle thus acted upon appeared as a reddish flocculent mass, in which the dinsion of the fibres into bundles was indistinctly perceived. Under the microscope, however, all was obscure; a few granular fibrils could be picked out here and there, but the rest was an indistinct flocculent mass with something of a linear arrangement. It contained a few white opaque grains with a radiating structure, apparently composed of a soap of lime. No loose fat appeared anywhere, and ether had very little eftect in clearing the field. The inference from these observations seems to be that fatty degeneration cannot be artificially imitated by these methods. One step, indeed, adipocerous transformation and fatty degeneration seem to have in common—that which we recognise as the stage of gi-anular110 hepout on practical iikdicine. tlegeueration ; but as chemical analysis shows that this appearauce is not uocosaarily accompauied by any increase of the fatty constituents, WG must regard it liere as an optical change only. (Ill') Wliat is the nature of adipoccre, and what relation does this so-called result of chemical fatty degeneration bear to the result of pathological fatty de- generation? Examination of various specimens of adipocere showed that it was, in all probability, not a newly formed substance, but rather a new arrangement of old materials, a saponification of the fat already existing. An analysis of lo grains of adipocere from a human thigh gave of free margaric and oleic acids 4-1 grains, of margarate and oleatc of lime with traces of magnesia 2-4 gr., of a peculiar fibre containing nitrogen and traces of phosphate of lime 3*4 gr., of water ci gr. In the fatty matter here present margaric acid so predominated that it was necessary to add olive oil to allow it to crystallize freely in its characteristic form. In this as in all other respects this adipocere agreed perfectly with other specimens of adipocere from the human subject, and contrasted strongly with the results of fatty degeneration. Ormerod concludes that adipocerous transformation is altogether dif- ferent from fatty degeneration. The one is a chemical change of dead, decomposing matter; the other is a pathological process, and the part which chemistry plays is, as in inflammation and secretion, subordi- nate to the influences which are at work, however feebly, in a living body. Hebmanit, F. ; V. Kempff.—On Scwvy. Petersb. Med. Ztschr., 5, p. 293, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 124, p. 27. Epidemics have prevailed at St. Petersburg in 1845, '48, '60, and '61; in the last, 131 cases of primary severe scurvy were brought to the hospital, and 10 cases of secondary, besides numerous cases of disease of various kinds with scorbutic complication. More than a third of the patients had suflfered from rheumatic disordei", a small part only with commencing marasmus. In the second stage, besides haemorrhages into the joints, under the periosteum, and the inner table of the os ilii, there was sometimes found separation of the costal cartilages from the bones. In the third stage dysentery never occurred, only catarrhal affection, attended sometimes with hfemorrhagic exudation. The urine was generally diminished in quantity, high coloured, clear, or, at a later period, turbid, always acid, and speedily became putrid. Its sp. gr. during the height of the disorder varied from 1009 to 1022; its solid constituents were always increased. As regards prognosis, haemorrhages into the joints and diarrhoea were unfavorable signs. Eff'usion into the pericardium and cerebral cavities was always fatal. With respect to {Etiology, Hermann remarks that all circumstances whicli weaken the forces of the organism may give rise to scurvy. He is quite certain that the limitation of the" supply of sour-crout to the soldiers, which has been tried on the score of economy, has produced scurvy. While the epidemic prevailed no condition or calling in life was exempted from its visitations, not even those who were well off. Cold and damp certainly promoted its action; but it is remarkable that the acme of the disease reached its height in April, May, and June, and declined inCIRCULATORY SYSTEM. 117 spite of the more unfavorable weather until November. Young people whose growth was not finished, and whose frame Avas weakly, and who in this state had to struggle with hard work and unfavorable circum- stances, were the most frequent subjects of the disorder; old persona and children, on the contrary, were rarely affected. The apparent im- munity of women is explained by Hermann on the ground of their social position, their greater psychical capacity of endurance, and their more sober mode of life. Under the head of treatment Hermann ascribes the chief importance to diet. Lemons, he thinks, are the best antiscorbutic, biit on account of their high price vinegar is used instead as an external application, and, internally, citric acid prepared in England in the proportion of i drachm to a pint of water. Blisters act admirably, produce no gangrene; they should be applied in strips I or 2 finger-breadths' wide when the costal cartilages are affected, in sclerosis, and in buboes, where they are to be laid along the edge of the ulcers.—V. Kempff relates the case of a person, set. 20, who resided in a place severely visited by scurvy, and was suffering with perilous paroxysms of suffocation, and had signs of effusion into the chest. By paracentesis thoracis a large quantity of blood-serum was drawn off (about 8 or 9 pints), and in 4 days the patient was discharged. Maetxk, S., M.D.—Instance of recovery from Leucocythcemia. Brit. Med. Journ., March 12. A tall, gray-haired man, set. 66, an artist by profession, came under Martyn's care in May, 1861. He had originally had most robust health, and been capable of much exertion in following field sports; had never been ill before. He stated that he had been ill, on and off, for more than a year, chiefly with inflammation of the left lung (as he calls it). Much emaciation and pallor. Is very prostrate from profuse perspirations near morning. Some dulness and congestion of the lungs behind, with rales. Heart healthy. In the left hypochondrium there is a laz'ge convex tumour, smooth, and with a notch at its anterior edge near the umbilicus, not painful. There was chronic diarrhoea. The urine was loaded with phosphates; its sp. gr. was 1030. The blood taken from the finger showed the white corpuscles in great excess, visible everywhere in the field, and of varying sizes, and .in groups. By the middle of Nov., 1863, he appeared to have recovered. From the previous emaciation and pallor he had become stout and florid, though showing age in weak memory and slow, stooping gait. The splenic dulness was unduly extensive, but not so as to attract any attention if the previous history was unknown. The blood contained more white corpuscles than would be present in typically healthy blood, but not more than are seen in ansemia and in a great number of inde- terminate conditions. Ammonia was the remedy which seemed to induce recovery.—Meebach (Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 124, p. 26) reports a case of leucaimia associated witb splenic enlargement. The pro- portion of colourless corpuscles to red was 244 to 885. Besides the colourless and red corpuscles there were numerous irregular masses of gray granular substance, which appeared to have resulted from the coalescence and breaking up of a number of white corpuscles. TheEEPORT ON PRACTICAL StEDICINE. 118 splenic enlargement increased untU the organ reached down to the right iliac region ; the liver was enlarged from the time of hia admission, but did not continue to increase. The patient was a male, ret. 23 ; had never sulFered from ague. The urine was usually normal. The diseasje progressed and must have proved fatal shortly after he loft the hospital. EiOHWALD.—On lite nature of Stenocardia {Angina pectoris), and its relation to Siib-jyarali/sis of the Jlearf. In 9 cases, observed during 4 years by the author, there were some very constant symptoms, which he considers essejitial. In .3 instances, in I'emales, the disorder appeared to be a neurosis. In all, the action of the heart was diminished during the paroxysms of pain, so much so as sometimes quite to disappear, while during the intervals and at the close of an attack it was visibly increased. The respiratory movements were, in all the instances, imperfect by reason of the pain; but there was no real dyspnoea, unless a severe paroxysm lasted for some time. During the acme of an attack the condition is one of pulselessness, apucea, and arrest of circulation. The heart is distended with blood during the paroxysm, and does not empty itself completely. It thus comes in contact with a larger surface of the wall of the chest, and as its muscular fibi-es contract vividly there is produced a strong diffused impulse, together with indistinct sounds and a weak pulse. The anginose attack depends not only on mere depression of the heart's action by weakness, but on an actual arrest of it by a mechanical im- pediment, and the pain is produced by the more or less unavailing efforts which the heart makes to overcome this obstacle. In the purely neurotic cases he believes this impediment to be produced by irritation of the regulating nerves of the heart. Lanceeeatjx.—6az. Hebd., 14, 1864. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 124, p. 26. Records a case of angina pectoris, where after death the following condition was found. The patient was a male, £et. 54. In the aorta, between the openings of the two coronary arteries, which were con- siderably narrowed, there was an elevated patch of new-formed con- nective tissue situated between the inner and middle coats, and sending ramifications into the former; the outer coat at the corresponding part was highly.injected, and'the cardiac plexus in the same situation was covered with vessels, some of its fibres thickened by a kind of plasma, and some of its nervous elements wasted by pressure, as was shown by microscopic examination. A calcified tuberculous mass, the remains of a lymphatic gland, lay below, and was adherent to the recurrent nerve. The heart and its valves normal. London, B.—Oesterrh. Zeitschr. f. prakt. Heilk., 9, p. 42, 186.3. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 121, p. 175. ■ Mentions a case of enteric fever, proving fatal in about twelve days, in whom a systolic murmur was heard all over the heart, loudest be- tween the second and third left ribs, where there was A'ibratory impulse. The murmur disappeared before death. It was loud enough to quite mask the first sound of the left ventricle. The second pulmonic sound was accentuated. At the poe^.mortem the valves were fouud healthy;119 ClllCULATORY SYSTEM. there was a good deal of turbid serum iu tlie pericardium. The dia- gnosis had been made of fever with paralysis of the musculi papillaires. Palmeb, T.—Laucet, April and. States that he has met with subclavian murmur in 37 men out of 129 who were engaged in various manual occupations, and were all in the enjoyment of perfect health. He thinks that the murmur is caused in many cases by elevation of the first rib. In the 37 cases it occurred 17 times on the left side only, 7 times on the right, 13 times on both sides. ScHXiTZLEE and Eokitansky.—On persistence of the Ductus JBotallii. Wien. Med. Halle, 5, 10, 1864. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 133, p. 44. After relating a case,' Schnitzler indicates the following as the most important diagnostic points:—Extended cardiac dulness and rasping murmur in the second and third intercostal spaces, one inch from the left border of the sternum. This murmur is produced by the blood flowing rapidly into the pulmonaiy artery, meeting with the blood coming from an opposite direction, and being thus thrown into a, whirling motion, which produces vibrations in the walls of the pul- monary artery. Eokitansky states as the result of his experience that (i) arrest of the involution of the duct proceeds from the aorta; (2) the current flows in the persistent duct from the aorta into the pul- monary artery; (3) the hypertrophy and dilatation of the right heart, which are frequently present, are not of foetal origin, but are the result of the aortic stream entering the pulmonary artery. Skoda.—On insufficiency of the Valves of the Heart. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., 8, 48, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, p. 45. The signs of insuf&ciency sometimes retrograde and completely vanish in acute rheumatism and acute endocarditis. This is to be ex- plained by the removal of thickenings or excrescences being efi"ected by the process of resorption, so that tlie valves again become capable of closing. In the same way elongated cord^e tendinete may return to their normal length. In many cases this improvement is only temporary, because the process of resorption goes too far, and produces permanent alteration of the valves. The papillary muscles may be temporarily paralysed in endo- and pericarditis, and also in states such as the hys- terical attended with anomalies of innervation. In typhus, variola, scarlatina, even in endocarditis, phenomena of valvular insufficiency arc produced, especially in the beginning of the disease, by anomalous innervation of the muscular structure, and disappear again with the remission of the acute febrile symptoms. Even when insufliciency has lasted a long time the defective condition of one valve may be com- pensated by an enlargement of others, or by an endocardial exudation taking place upon it. Carditis attended with formation of cicatrices in the muscular tissue may produce phenomena of insufficiency, which will only be increased by wasting and absorption of the deposit. Skoda considers that such cicatricial formation may be diagnosed when it afl'ects the anterior wall or the apex by the increased bulging of the intercostal spacre, which occurs at each systole, without the pulse beingIIKPOIIT ON I'RACTICAT, MEDICINE, uo correspoudiugly ibrciblo, and also by the symptoma of piilmouary con- gestion Avhich cannot otlierwise be accounted lor. Hoeing.—Case of Rupture of the Septmn Ventriciilorum of the Heart from the kick of a horse. "Wurtemb. Corr. Bl., 34, 10, 18154. Schmidt's .Tahrb., vol. 12,3, p. 41J. The patient lived sixty liours after he had received tlie blow. An indeterminate whining murmur was heard over the heart, and the sounds were not clearly separated. Watebs, a. T. H., M.D.—Lancet, November 12th. Accounts for tlie hypertrophy of the left cavities of the heart which occurs in emphysema by the displacement of the organ altering the relations between the ventricles and the great arteries wliicli issue from them, so that the blood is not expelled with the same facility as in the normal state, the heart's action becomes embarrassed, and more power- ful contraction is rendered necessary. He does not, however, exclude engorgement of the venous system as an accessory cause. Eamskill, J. S., M.D.— Cases of dilatation of the Left Ventricle of the Seart associated ivith difficulty of articulation, and with sub-occipital pain. Clinical Lectures and Eeports of the London Hospital, 1864, p. 472. Eamskill suggests that disease in the vertebral artery, where it lies between the sub-occipital and hypoglossal nerve, may account for the symptoms. He thinks that the mischief arising from disease in the arterial tunics is hastened by certain forms of lieart disease, of which weakness or dilatation is a chief characteristic. In such cases, which are often treated as cases of brain affection only, remedies should be addressed to the heart, and an improvement in its action will be fol- lowed by a corresponding arrest of the sub-occipital pain and difficult articulation, and by a postponement, at least, of the coming apoplexy, hemiplegia, or the cerebral lesion. Lebeet. — Virchow's Arehiv, 28, 1863, p. 405. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 121, p. 172. Records the case of a youth who died at the age of 20, of pul- monary phthisis, in whom there was found the following malformation of the heart. The right ventricle was hypertrophied and dilated, and communicated freely with tlie left. The auricles also communicated through the open foramen ovale. The aorta was 3 times as large as the pulmonary artery; the two had a common origin. The valves were healthy and efficient. No cyanosis existed during life. No symptoms seem to have existed until 20 months before tlie patient's death. At tliat time, after raising a hca\7' load, he was attacked with violent pain in the right anterior and superior region of the chest, and ever after .'iufl'ered Avith palpitation and dyspnoea on any exertion. A loud, sliarp, systolic murmur was heard all over the region occupied by the lieart, and masked the first sound completely and the second partially. The mode of production of this murmur was not ascertained; it may have de- pended on the meeting of the currents of blood from the two ventricles121 CmCULATOllY SYSTEM. in a comparatively narrow space, or on a ripple cansed by the projection between the aorta and the pulmonary artery. BoTTGEn, H.—On spontaneous rupture of the Heart. Arch. d. Heilk., 4, p. 501, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 48. Bottger relates 2 cases occurring, one in a female of intellect, set. 69, the other in a male, set. .30, who had insulBciency of the aortic valves, and hypertrophy of the left ventricle. From a number of cases he has collected, it appears that ruptures never occur spontaneously in a healthy organ. Fatty degeneration is the great cause of ruptures that are not produced by violence; among 62 cases it was found 3 2 times, while endocarditis was observed only thrice. Ruptures occur most often in advanced age ; on an average, about the middle of the 60th year. Traumatic ruptures generally take place in the right auricle, spontaneous in the left ventricle. lii the greater number of the cases, 31 out of 49, death occurred instantaneously ; a short continuance of life is only possible when the pericardium in the vicinity of the rupture is adherent and thickened. In many cases there are no premonitory symptoms; in others, especially in incomplete ruptures, the event is preceded by pain in the cliest (in 21 out of 34 cases), great dyspnoea (11 times), nausea and vomiting (6 times). Habeeshon, S. 0., M.T>.~Climcal observations illustratina the effects produced by the implication of branches of the Pnemiogastric JSTerve tn Aneurismal Tumours and in some morbid growtJis. Proc of Med and Chir. Soc, vol. 4, 1864, p. 281. The author stated that pressure on the pneumogastric nerve and its branches by aneurismal tumours in the chest led, first, to paroxysmal and spasmodic contraction of the muscles of the larynx; secondly to dimimshed muscular power and to paralysis and wasting of the laryngeal muscles; and thirdly, to pulmonary congestion and consolidation: but that gastric symptoms, such as were found in peripheral pulmonary irritation of incipient phthisis, were not observed in thoracic aneurism. Ihe ettect ot changed nervous supply of the oesophagus was briefly relerred to ; spasmodic contraction, and possibly also ulceration, taking place without direct pressure; the author stating that spasmodic con traction from this cause aggravated the effects of the direct pressure of tumours generally. Ifc was likewise mentioned that occasionally no dysphagia existed, because the whole of the (esophagus opposed to the tumour was pushed aside en masse. Fi' Dubl^^oTn?r ««^. treatment of Thm-acic Aneurism. Uubl. Quart. Journ. of Med. Sci., May, 1864.) Moore has observed cases of this disease in which there existed to- £ .r r' ^y^Pt^'^^' ptosis, alteration of the muscles of expres sion, heat of the ears pustular and hepatic eruptions, and other silng of nervous pressure. He refers to Barensprung's obserWtions as to th^ production of herpes as an illustration oV the^ossibillty of" cu aneJ s eruption being dependent on nervous irritation. Tlie herpetic eriinZ? m one case had persisted for 10 years. ^^erpetic eruptionHEPORT ON rHACTICAL MEDICINE. 12Z QuLL.—Lancet, April 9th. Recorda a case of nneui-ism of the aorta opening into tbe superior vena cava just at its entrance into the auricle. The patient was a male, ret. 34, -who had suft'erod with cough, dyspnoea, and inability for hard worlc, for several ycara. Five weeks before death iiis face began to swell and biftaine purple, liis neck became pufiy and his arms. On ad- mission his head, neck, thorax, and arms, seemed as though tliey belonged to a bloated individual, while the abdomen and lower extremi- ties looked as if they were the parts of anotlier man, for they were fine and thin, not gorged with blood, and mostly of the normal colour. A vibratile thrill, synchronous with tlie second sound of the heart, was seen over the right side of the chest. No murmurs were heard with the cardiac sounds. All over the ascending portion and middle of the arch of the aorta a soft whee/ing murmur was very distinct. At tlie commencement of the arch it was diastolic, passing upwards it was botii diastolic and systolic, but chiefly the former. Pulse 108, small, regular, riglit less than left. The opening into the aneurismal sac occupied the side and posterior wall of the ascending aorta, commencing an inch above the valves, and reaching to the innominata. Cockle, J., M.D.—Lancet, April 30. Relates two cases as strongly confirmative of the value of a sign of abdominal aneurism, which is in some instances most to be relied on, viz., severe and intermitting pain in the back and loins, often radiating to the front of the abdomen and downwards to the thighs. One patient was a male, the other a female. In the latter the aneurism affected the inferior mesenteric artery. MuEEAY, W., M.D.—Case of Aneurism of the Abdominal Aorta treated and cured hy compressing the artery immediately above the tumour. Proc. of Med. and Chir. Soc, vol. 4, 1864, p. 352. The patient was a spare man, tet. 26, and had often strained himself in ramming paving-stones. Eleven months ago, after hard work, he was seized with severe pain in the back. Two months later the same pain began to be felt in the abdomen, catching his breath, and was very severe. Previous to treatment his condition is described as follows :— His abdomen is somewhat spare, so that a distinct pulsation can be seen opposite the umbilicus. On applying tbe hand a hard and slightly movable tumour of a distinctly globular form is to be felt. Its pulsa- tions are very strong, sudden, and laterally expansive. The tumour is about the size of a large orange; when pressure is made on the aorta above it all pulsation ceases, and when it is removed a distinct thrill is felt to accompany the rush of blood into the tumour. A line drawn across the abdomen over the umbilicus encloses with the ribs a trian- gular [space, the epigastric region; and over tlie left half of this space there is just room enough above the tumour to compress the aorta against tbe spiue. The aorta below the tumour can be felt, and its pulsations appear to be normal. A slight bruit is heard over tho tumour. No evidence of degeneration of the arterial system. General health good, but he is worn out with pain and consequent loss of sleep.ciuculatort: system. 123 On April i6th the patient was put under the influence of chloroform, and pressure by means of an ordinary horseshoe tourniquet was kept up for 2 hours. On removing the pressure nfl apparent effect had been produced. On April 19th the pressure was again used and main- tained, with but momentary intermissions, when the instrument be- came displaced, but even these were avoided during the last hour, aa the instrument was carefully held in its place, and the patient kept under the influence of chloroform very fullj\ After about 5 hours the pressure waa removed, and now very little pulsation existed in the tumour. Beyond a little shivering and numbness, with coldness of the feet and legs, nothing of an untoward nature followed. In the even- ing a most careful examination failed to detect the slightest pulsation in the tumour, or in the aorta below it. On April 20th the patient was restless and sore, legs feeling numb, with a sensation of pins and needles in the feet. After this date he rapidly improved, became free from pain, and was able to walk. The tumour became quite solid, diminished in size, and all expansion, thrill, and bruit, ceased. By May 5t]i the patient was able to walk a considerable distance, without other discomfort than slight weakness and numbness in the legs. TVatebs, A. T. H., M.D. — On Thoracic Aneurisms and Thoracic Tumours. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eev., Oct. After relating eight cases, Waters remarks, with resjiect to diagnosis, that in all cases of aneurysm of the arch the least equivocal sign is dulness opposite the upper part of the sternum. It is there that the tumour first begins to push aside the lungs, and to come in contact with the thoracic wall, and it is usually from this spot that the dulness extends to the right or left side. According to Waters' experience, in the majority of cases no bruit is audible. The objects of treatment he thinks are, ist, to promote the formation of fibrinous deposits in the aueurismal sac; and 2nd, to improve the nutrition of the arterial coats. [ Wedl.—Contributions to the Pathology of Blood-vessels. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, p. 28. (i) Elongation and dilatation of the small blood-vessels is produced by an increase of the tension to which they are subjugated, and causes them to take a serpentine course. Such changes are very well observed in atrophying dental pulps. In these the veins are usually 3 to 4 times wider than usual, and retain this diameter often in their whole length. The cellular elements of the vascular wall shrivel up, so that it presents a more iiomogeneous appearance. Fusiform and pouch-like dilatations like those which occur in the cerebral are often met within such vessels. In glaucomatous eyes the vessels of the choroid and retina are affected in the same way, in consequence of the increased intraocular pressure. (2) Colloid deposits, or corpora amylacea, are found on the walls of small arteries, capillaries, and veins, and always on their outer side. For the most part they project free from the surface, but sometimes they are surrounded with a capsule. They are more frequent on the small : arteries than on the veins. They are not uncommon on the blood- ' vessels of diseased retinro, but Wedl warns us that, unless fresh speci-124 iikpout on practical medicine. mens are used, we may be led into error by tlieir being accidentally in- troduced, (lie says, they may occur as "leichen syniptorne," post- mortem symptoms.) Wedl is inclined to believe tliat the colloid masses in individual oases are immediately separated from the blood and are to be regarded as decomposition-products. (3) Calcifications of the small vessels, especially of the capillaries, occur rarely in so ex- tensive a manner that whole vascular networks appear encrusted with calcareous salts. These are deposited in the capillary wall as well as in the wall of small arteries and veins, sometimes as small glistening granules, sometimes in the form of masses which project more or less above the periphery of the vessel. Between both these conditions numerous transition stages occur. The fine granvdar form-of calcareous deposit is met with especially in the small arteries and cerebral vessels of drunkards. In these the deposit does not take place in the outer coat (as is often the case in the small veins), but in the middle ; in many places large calcareous granules seem to obstruct the canal of the vessel. When the lime is removed by muriatic acid nothing can be distin- guished of the nuclei of the organic muscular fibres of the vessel. Cal- cifications of the large arteries are always situated actually in the new- formed connective tissiieofthe lining membrane. (4) Connective-tissue growths.—Wedl describes in detail the anatomy of a case of difi"use cerebral cancer, as illustrating the great share which the cellular elements of the walls of the vessels take in the production of new for- mations. On examining the vessels, which were numerous and serpen- tine, it was found that nuclear growths were remarkably developed in the outer coat of the veins and in the adjoining tract of capillaries, while in the arteries and the arterial capillaries there was no such ap- pearance. The diameter of the capillaries was everywhere wider than in the normal state. On the outer walls of the veins were seated knobbed or club-shaped excrescences, some of them branched, which were filled with nuclei. They did not appear hollow, and did not communicate with the cavity of the vessels. The basis substance in which the nuclei lay imbedded appeared finely granular. The original capillary network was being destroyed by wasting pressure; the blood-channels were interrupted. "In the apparently healthy tissue surrounding the new growth numerous nuclear formations were discovered on the veins, demonstrating the part which the vessels took in the diffusion and in the growth of the tumour. Connec- tive-tissue deposits on the internal coat of the large arteries are distinguished essentially by the want of elastic fibres from the con- nective-tissue growths of the outer, in which, when hypertrophously developed, clastic fibres are very abundantly present. When the deposits on the internal coat are at all large two layers can be dis- tinguished in them, namely, an internal more hyaline, and a granular subjacent. The internal hyaline layer contains partly roundish, partly fusiform, connective-tissue-cells, which are connected together to some extent by their processes. Often aggregations of nuclei only can be made out, which appear grouped in long rows or in nests. The ex- ternal granular and darker layer contains larger globular cells, which lie rather near each other, and are also connected partially by processes.125 CIKCULATOUY SYSTEM. Alono- with these are greater and smaller masses of shrivelling nuclei, as well as numerous granules and globules of elain, calcareous salts, tablets of cholesterine, and masses of pigment. Here also the plates of calcifying connective tissue are formed. The connective-tissue growth of the inner coat at a later period, when its elastic layer has disappeared, advances also to the middle, so that either the layers of the circular coat are separated by the pressure of the new-formed connective tissue or their inner layers are actually replaced by it. The integrity of the circular coat may also be attacked from the outer when connective- tissue growth, accompanied with new formation of vessels, takes place in the latter. The vessels of the outer coat then grow into the middle, and Eokitansky has even followed them into the connective-tissue deposits on the inner. In the basis substance of the connective tissue growing between the layers of the middle coat are found cells solitary or in groups with roundish or oval nuclei. At the same time also the nuclei of the organic muscular fibre-cells in the middle coat usually take on exaggerated growth. The elasticity of the arterial tube, which depends on the contractility of the middle coat, is, of course, diminished correspondingly to the amount of connective-tissue growth which takes place in the middle coat and the thickness of the deposit on the internal. Peacock, T. B., M.D.— Cases of unusual slowness of the Pulse, loith re- marks. Med. Times and Gazette, Jan. 2, 9, 16. Peacock says, " the occurrence of slowness of the pulse, in connec- tion with cardiac disease, has been long familiar to practical men, and that syncopic or epileptic paroxysms are of common occurrence in such cases. It remains to inquire whether the infrequency of the pulse is connected with any special form of cardiac disease or may occur in different organic affections. Mr. Mayo supposed that slowness of pulse especially occurred in cases of ossification of the coronary arteries, and atrophy with or without passive dilatation. It appears, however, more in accordance with experience to find a weak and irregular pulse in cases of atrophy and dilatation; and in the only case of slowness of pulse which I have had the opportunity of examining after death the heart was in the opposite condition, the left ventricle, though large, being very greatly hypertrophied. Dr. Stokes and Dr. Quain have pointed out that slowness of pulse frequently accompanies fatty degeneration of the walls of the heart, and suppose that the attenuation in the structure of the organ occasions the diminution in the rate. Of the frequency of the coincidence there can be no doubt, attested as it is by other observers. On the other hand, Dr. B. Jones and Dr. Ogle have related cases in which the heart had undergone the fibrinous degeneration, and the pulse during life had been remarkably slow, and they ascribe the slowness to the state of the structure of the heart. These views are, how- ' ever, open to very grave objections. AVe know that the occurrence of slowness of pulse in cases of fatty degeneration is only exceptional, the ! most usual character being weakness and irregularity. Dr. Quain, in il the table which he gives of the state of the pulse in cases of fatty de- ! generation, reports only 8 cases of slowness in the which he refers to.126 REPOltT ON 1'llA.CTICAL MEDICINE. Dr. Stokes also relates several cases of fatty degeneration in which the pulse was not slow. AVe have, indeed, all met with cases of the moat marked fatty degeneration, in which the pulse has not been below the healthy standard. In Dr. Ogle's communication two cases of fibrinous degeneration are recorded, and in one only was the pulse slow, while other examples of the same condition of the heart are reported in the ' Pathological Transactions' which equally show that there is no necessary connection between slowness of pulse and this form of de- generation. Both kinds of morbid change must materially impair the power of the left ventricle, and the blood being thus only feebly im- pelled into the aorta, the pulse at the wrist will ordinarily be weak, and frequently also irregular and small. Two cases of slow pulse re- lated by Dr. Stokes are instances of aortic valvular disease, and in one related by Peacock the same condition existed, but in some of the most remarkable cases of slowness on record there was no evidence of any valvular disease of the heart. It was supposed by Mr. Mayo that slow- ness of pulse depended in some cases on general depression, exhaustion, and reduction of strength. He cites two cases in proof:—In the first, a young lady, in consequence of suffering from a neuralgic affection of the face and throat, was advised by her medical attendant to abstain from taking food by the mouth, and was supported by nutritive eneraata exhibited 2 or 3 times daily. In 4 days symptoms of fever gupervened; in a month the catainenia, which had been suppressed for 9 months, re- turned, and 2 weeks after, the pulse suddenly sunk from between 70 and 80 to 3^. In the other case a medical student, after having sat up for 6 nights in attendance upon a patient, found his pulse rapidly fall to 35, and, though it rose again to 40 in a few days, several years elapsed before it reached the healthy standard. It is by no means un- common in convalescence from acute febrile diseases for the pulse to fall below the natural rate, and remain remarkably slow for some time. This is especially the case in convalescence from severe uncomplicated typhus. The pulse which, during the active period of the disease, may have ranged from 112 to 120 or upwards, falls, as convalescence ad- vances, to 70, 65, 60, 50, or even 45 and 40. This slow rate it will re- tain for some time, and then, as the patient uses more exertion, it often again rises to 110 or 100, and in the upright position even to 120, and lastly sinks gradually to the healthy standard. These changes Peacock has been in the habit of pointing out to the students of St. Thomas's aa being the natural process of recovery in tjphus, provided no serious local complication occur to interfere with the ordinary course of the disease. Similar changes may be observed during convalescence from other acute diseases, especially diphtheria. Peacock does not agree with Mayo, that slowness of pulse may be dependent on general ex. haustion. Such a state ordinarily is attended with a very opposite character of pulse ; under such circumstances, indeed, the left veutricl acts feebly, irritably, and rapidly, and the pulse is quick, small, sharp, and generally feeble. In cases in w^hich the rate of the pulse is un ■usually low during convalescence from severe disease, it is not durin the stage of greatest exhaustion that the rate begins to fall, but durin the period of recovery, and the diminution often continues and increas127 CIKOULATORY SYSTEM. while the patient is steadily progressing towards cure, taking more food and gaining strength. Tliere is also no just relation as to the degree of prostration between the cases in which the pulse becomes slow and those in which it continues to beat considerably above the healthy standard. Certainly in an instance which Peacock relates, the rheu- matic symptoms were slighter, the prostration less, and the recovery more rapid than in another case in a neighbouring bed, though the pulse of the latter patient long continued to beat upwards of loo in the mimite. Closely allied to the class of cases last named are those in which the pulse is slower than in health, and sometimes much slower during the active stages of acute febrile diseases. Peacock has seen cases of fever in which the pulse never exceeded 52, and a case of pneu- monia in which it ranged between 50 and 60, without there being any cerebral disorder, and in which, unlike the former cases, the pulse rose with the progress towards recovery. " It will thus be seen that slowness of pulse occurs under very dif- ferent circumstances—in some cases in which the heart is extensively diseased, and in others in which there ia no reason to suppose that there is any defect in the structure of the organ. It must also be evident that none of the causes hitherto assigned for the peculiarity— applicable, as they are, only to particular classes of cases, and not to the whole of those in which it obtains—can be accepted as affording adequate explanations of the occurrence of the condition. As also it has been further shown, that when the slowness of the pulse is com- bined with decided disease of the heart, the structural changes are of very different charactei's, it follows that such changes can only be regarded as coincident, and not as essential to the production of the peculiarity, the defect being evidently one of function.- It would appear, therefore, that the undue slowness of pulse must result either from a want of proper muscular irritability, or from a defect in the special nervous endowment of the heart. Whichever view we adopt, it will explain the occurrence of the peculiarity; for such defect may, and is, indeed, very likely to coexist with any form of structural change in the heart, and yet may occur when the organ is entirely healthy. It would also be a condition likely to ensue during con- valesence from acute febrile diseases; for it is a well-ascertained law of the animal economy, that no organ can be the seat of prolonged over- action without its power being exhausted, and a state of debility or defective action being induced. In the cases in which the pulse is slow during the active stages of febrile diseases, the morbific cause may be supposed to act specifically upon the part in the same way as certain sedatives (e. (j. aconite and the cinchona alkaloids given in full and frequently repeated doses), depress the power of the organ, and greatly reduce its rate of pulsation. The condition of the blood probably affects the rate of the pulse in some cases, a slow pulse being not very uncommon in cases of chlorosis and auajmia. This view, which affords a probable solution of the occurrence of slowness of pulse in the different circumstances described, is further supported by the very little effect which, in some of the cases in which the condition supervenes during convalescence from acute diseases, is128 UEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. produced upon the rate by the exhibition of stimulants. Indeed, sometimes the condition is very persistent, continuing after the patient has gained botli llesii and streugtli, and is able to make a considerable amount of muscular exertion. In sucii cases, indeed, it only subsides uiidor the prolonged use of iron, and other remedies which may act directly on the muscular structure or nerves of the heart. The intei- mittent pulse bears a very close analogy to the slow pulse, and occurs under very similar circumstances. It may accompany different forms of valvular and other diseases of the heart, yet may be present when the organ is entirely free from disease. The explanation which has been given of the cause of the former condition is equally applicable to the latter. PissiN".—On hleedinc/ from tlie Bcmine Vein. Deutsche Klinik, 8, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 121, p. 339. Pissin recommends tliis procedure in cases of stomatitis, tonsillitis, pharyngitis, and laryngitis. He records the case of a youth, set. 15, suffering from acute laryngitis, in whom it seems to have proved very beneficial. The vein is to be opened longitudinally, and the bleeding encouraged as much as possible. In adults 6 to 8 ounces of blood may be procured from one bleeding. Dr. Stirling.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., March ,15th. Eecords 3 cases benefited by digitalis, and remarks that from his experience of the action of digitalis in cardiac disease he is satisfied that we have in that drug a most valuable agent in cases of enfeebled heart without valvular complications. Its action on the organ appears direct and rapid, and no bad effects seem to foUow its prolonged use. EESPIRATORT STSTEIT. G-iBB.—Lancet, January 23rd. Eecords a case in which the entire trachea, and the bronchi to some extent, were greatly thickened, and the diameter of the canal contracted so that a tracheotomy tube could not be introduced. The contraction commenced about half an inch from the commencement of the trachea, and continued nearly all the way to the bifurcation, where the walls were 2 lines thick. The diameter of the left bronchus at its commence- ment was about 2 lines, and its lining membrane was intensely inflamed, with several ulcerated patches. The rings of the trachea could not be distinguished from within, for the whole of its interior was irregular and uneven from fibrinous deposit. The lower half of the epiglottis was occupied by a number of flattish, warty, fibrinous bodies ; 2 or 3, the size of small peas, smooth and round, were present on the right side of the larynx, involving the false vocal cord. The patient was a male, £Et. 20, and had suffered with difficult and stridulous breathing for 12 months, with cough and expectoration. His voice, though feeble and somewhat hoarse, was quite audible. There was no history of syphilis, though the disease was suspected from ulceration and purulent secre- tion of the left nostril. GiBB, G., M.D.—0» Albuminuric Aphonia. Lancet, Feb. 20th, 1864. After citing a case from his own experience, Gibb gives the following129 hespieatoey system. summary of C. rauvel's original observations. The aphonia depends on a Avhite a3dema, either chronic or intermittent, of the vestibule of the hirynx and vocal cords, preceding or following albuminuria, and more often present without an_y external manifestation to atford even a suspicion of the existence of Bright's disease. This oedema at one time abruptly manifests its presence, and at another slowly, by complete aphonia or slight dysphonia. The first symptom which appears is hoarseness ; the patient neither coughs nor expectorates ; complains only of slight uneasiness of breathing and a little oppression at the chest. Very soon he is obliged to make great efibrts at inspiration, and after some days the voice is wealc and obscure, sometimes altogether lost, and a whisper occurs only with the lips. Dr. Tauvel has seen many patients attacked with aphonia or dysphonia in the best of health, without any other explanation to account for the swelling in the larynx than albuminuria, very sensible traces of albumen being discovered in the urine by the application of nitric acid. MoEELL Mackenzie, M.D.—iVb^es on Laryngoscopy. Med. Tim. and Gaz., March 5th. The author remarks that loss of function, independent of structural disease, might depend on some peculiar condition of the nerve-force, or it might be due to extrinsic disease—that is to sa^', to pressure applied to the pneumogastric nerve or its branches. It was very necessary to recognise this fact, because it liad a very important bearing both on the treatment and the prognosis. Fortunately, it was easy to diagnose between these two conditions; for whilst in true functional aphonia the vocal cords were always both equally alFected, in cases where the loss of voice was due to pressure on the pneumogastric or recurrent nerves the paralysis was almost invariably unilateral. In true func- tional aphonia the vocal cords sometimes scarcely moved at all in phonation, whilst at others they appeared to approximate perfectly. The fact, however, that in functional aphonia the two cords always acted equally afforded a point for differential diagnosis between the two diseased states under consideration. It was only when the pressure was applied to the recurrent nerves in their passage between the trachea and oesophagus that both nerves were at all likely to be afifected at the same time. This sometimes occurred in malignant strictm-e of the oesophagus. When one vocal cord remained immovably fixed it was necessary to make a very careful examination of the chest, as there was every reason to fear the existence of a tlioracic tumour. As an important feature in diagnosis, where the laryngoscope could not be used. Dr. Mackenzie observed that in true functional aphonia the cough is almost invariably natural—that is to say, it sounds perfectly. In aphonia due to pressure on a nerve the cough has always a peculiar metallic ringing sound. In simple functional aphonia the voice is generally completely suppressed, and the patient can only whisper ; in unilateral paralysis the voice is seldom suppressed, but the patient speaks in a shrill, painful voice. Mackenzie warns that an unsymmetrical appearance of the larynx may be produced by an unsymmetrical position of the mirror, and that it is desirable to introduce the latter, first with 9kepout on practical medicine. 130 one hand and then with the other. He Btates that a small growth in close pi'oxiniity to the vocal cords may sonictimes only indirectly give rise to aphonia or hoarseness, which may be removed though the growth persists. "Waiker, T. J., M.D.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., April 23. Contends that the best and simplest means of concentrating arti- ficial light for lai'yugoscopic purposes, is by the use of a small glass globe of Avater placed in front of an Argaud or gas lamp. By means of a mirror inches long by 2^ wide, placed immediately in front of the lower part of the globe, and made to incline at a convenient angle, the person whose throat is under observation can, by casting his eyes downwards, obtain in it a perfect view of the laryngoscope and the image reflected in it; at the same time two or more on-lookers can, by placing their heads on a level w'ith that of the person under obser- vation, and looking into the mirror, get the same view of the fauces and of the laryngeal image. MoRELL Mackenzie, M.D.^—Med. Tim. and Gaz., Dec. 3. Describes a light-concentrator to be used in laryngoscopy, which is portable and ensures always having an excellent light at command. The maker is Mayer, of 51, Great Portland Street. Spence, Jas.—Tracheotomy in DipJitheritic Crotip. Edin. Med. Jouru., March, 1864. Spence has operated in 18 cases of true diphtheritic croup, and of these 7 have recovered. Of the fatal cases the smaller number died from extension of the disease beyond the opening into the trachea. The larger group consists of those patients who died from the 6th to the 2ist day after the operation, in consequence of asthenia, the effect of the blood-poison. The most formidable complications are paralysis of the pharynx, giving rise to inability to swallow; or of the palate, leading to regurgitation of the food through the nostrils; or of the glottis, allowing the food to enter the air-passages and escape, as it does sometimes, through the tracheotomy tube. Buchanan, G., M.D.—Glasgow Med. Journ., Jan., 1864. Kecords 6 cases Avhere tracheotomy was performed in croup or diphtheria. Three cases of the latter disease proved fatal, i recovered. Two of croup recovered. In 5 of the cases the symptoms were urgent. Windsor, J.—Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 30. Eecords a case of inflammation of the epiglottis, which was success- fully treated by free puncturing, repeated several days in succession, with calomel to slight salivation. The epiglottis was felt to be much enlarged, in the form of a roundish solid ball, apparently filling up the passage from the pharynx to the oesophagus. Windsor believes Aye are warranted in stating that epiglottitis occasionally occurs_ as a primary afteetion, and may be recognised both by the eye on depressing the tongue and by the finger. It may extend to and involve the larynx, or, vice rers&, may commence in the "latter. If the power of deglutition be muchRESPIRATOUY SYSTEM. 131 impeded, or altogether obstructed, the epiglottis is probably the organ chiefly involved. MoissENET and Bouebon'.—On Si/p7dliiic narrowing of the Trachea. L'lJnion, 22, 1864. Gaz. des jffopit., 12, 1864. Schmidt's Jahrb,, vol. 122, p. 299. Moissenet had some years previously concluded that syphilitic stenosis of the trachea, after the destruction of its cartilaginous rings, may pro- duce death by contraction of the cicatrix, and that on this account antisyphilitic treatment must be directed by the result, and that gene- rally active measures must give way to expectant when a too speedy cicatrization is apprehended, not allowing the lungs to accommodate themselves to the altered capacity of tlie air-passages. This view was supported by Bourdon in his narration of the case of a female, who appeared to be almost cured by antisyphilitic treatment, but was taken ill one month later with the symptoms of tracheal stenosis, and died speedily, in spite of tracheotomJ^ An autopsy was made. In opposition to this view, Moissenet now lays down the rule, that generally where life is perilled by stenosis, and especially when the kind of stenosis can- not be quite positively diagnosed, specific treatment should be cai-ried out energetically. In support of this view he relates the following case. An old woman, who had suffered a long time with asthmatic complaints, was attacked rather suddenly by considerable dyspnoea. The patient in all probability had previously had syphilis, and now there existed at the side of the trachea a tumour as large as a uut, which appeared to be of a gummatous character. Her condition got worse with the small dose of Pot. lod. which at first was administered; but when it was in- creased, and combined with mercurial inunction, the symptoms soon subsided to their old amount, and no aggravation ensued in the course of 9 months. Moissenet believes that the chronic dyspnoea was pro- duced by enlarged glands about the bifurcation of the trachea similar to the one in the neck, and that the aggravation of it was occasioned by the development of fresh ones. These were dispersed by the remedies, and therewith the dyspnoea. Where peril is imminent tracheotomy must be performed as low down as possible, and endeavours made to dilate the passage. TnuDiCHUii, J. L. W.—On a new mode of treating diseases of the Cavity of the Nose. Lancet, Nov. 26, Dec. 3. This method is founded on the discovery of Prof. Weber, of Halle, that when one side of the nasal cavity is entirely filled through one nostril with fluid by hydrostatic pressure, while the patient is breathing through the mouth, the soft palate completely closes the choaute, and does not permit any fluid to pass into the pharynx, while this fluid easily passes into the other cavity, mostly round and over the posterior edge of the septum nariuin, in some persons also through the frontal sinuses, and escapes from the other open nostril, after having touched every part of the first half of the cavity of the nose, and a great part, certainly the lower and median caual, of the second half. By means of the appli- cation of this principle to the treatment of diseases of the nose, it is possible easily and frequently to wash the nasal cavity, to disinfect andREPORT ON PUACTICAL MEDICINE. deodorize it, to remove the sordea wliicli accumulate so easily in it, and to apply to its Riirface a great numl)erof beneficial medicinal substances, so as to prevent acute aftections from extending, and to incline them towards a speedy recovery; to stop hajmorrhages, allay irritations, and subdue in a remarkable manner chronic aftections of the Sclineidcrian membrane, so as to re establisli a perfectly healthy surface and normal condition of the organ of smell. The apparatus (which is constructed by AVeiss) essentially consists of a glass vessel to hold the fluid, a stop-cock, a pipe, and a nozzle accurately fitting the nostril of the patient. The solutions which Thudichum recommends are those of jihosphate of soda, phosphate of ammonia, common salt, soda, and per- manganate of potash, the latter in the proportion of gr. i—x in Oj of water. Besides these the following are prescribed, when a more potent therapeutic action is desired, viz., solutions of alum 333 ad Aq. Oij, of sul- phate of zinc gr. 20—6o+Sodse Sulph. 5'^—sji oi' sulphate of copper in same proportion, of Plumbi Acetas 5j—i.j + Soda3 Acetas —\] ad Aq. Oij, of Arg. Nitras gr. 16—32 + Sod. Nitras 5iv—3j ad Aq.Oij, of Hyd. Bichl. gr. v + Sod. Chlorid. 5] ad Aq. Oij, of Acidi Hydrocy. dil. V\4.o, of Tt. Opii ii\^i2o ad Aq. Oij; as styphes, ice-cold water, or the same with the addition of Tt. Eerri Mur. 5ij ad Aq. Oij ; as a stimulant, giv of Eau de Cologne ad Aq. Oij -f- Sod. Chlorid. jij, black wash, and yellow wash. Some useful remarks are added on the consti- tutional treatment of diseases of the cavity of the nose. Hide Salter.—Lancet, Jan. 23. States his experience with regard to the use of Pot. lod. in asthma to be that in some, comparatively few, cases it achieves great succes^;. It is often some time, perhaps a fortnight, before it begins to take efilect. It is not only in gouty or rheumatic gouty conditions that it proves beneficial, nor in those where chronic bronchitis coexists with the asthma. Smith, E., M.D.—Dietari/ in disease. Mnaciation. Lancet, Aprd 16. Emaciation is present in a majority of the cases of asthma. In the treatment of this affection it is of prime importance to keep the quantity of the blood as uniform as possible, and to prevent those con- siderable variations which occur in health when a large meal follows a long fast. The deficient respiration also tends to lower the amount of the vitnl transformations below the healthy standard, and hence indi- gestion is as common a feature as emaciation. The two leading prin- ciples in the treatment of such a case are to supply very small quantities of food at a time, and to render the dietary highly nitrogenous. In no case of confirmed asthma should more than 6oz. of fluid and solid food be given to a female and 8 oz. to a male at one time. It is therefore necessary to administer food frequently, viz., at least 6 times in the 24 hours. Two supplies should be given during the night and ui the early morning, when the attacks of dyspuaja cause wakefulness and distress. The others may be given at intervals of from 2 to 4 hours during the day. In the selection of food it is important to avoid much bread or other starchy material, and to supply milk and beef tea largely.133 KESPIllATORY SYSTEM. 111 numerous eases fiits are borne well and may be given with advantage, but in all cases it must be borne in mind that, a somewhat rapid and material increase in the bulk of the body (a condition which will be due in part to the increase of deposited fat) "is a sure precursor of an attack of the disease. Smith afSms that the improvement effected by such a plan is past belief by those who have not witnessed it. Hyde Salter. On the value of Ghloroform in the treatment of Asthma. Lancet, Nov. 5. Out of 13 cases in which Salter has employed chloroform it did good in 12; m I it did positive harm, increasing the asthma. A more common fault of it, and a very serious one, is that the relief which it gives is transient, and in many cases merely coextensive with the insensibility which it produces. Indeed, it is the ride for the beneficial effect of the chloroform to pass off in a greater or less degree with the insensi- bility. This, however, is not always the case, for in some instances, when the insensibility passes off, the asthma does not reappear ; in some the relief is produced without any insensibility whatever ; and in some a very small dose is sufficient to give relief, the patient immediately passing into a tranquil sleep, which may continue for hours, and from which he will wake with the asthma gone, although the original dose was far short of enough to produce the true chloroform sleep. Salter believes chloroform to act usually on the nervous system, but he has seen one case in which it appeared to act directly on the bronchial muscle, because the effect was so immediate. Salter has no fear of administering chloroform so long as the dyspnoea is purely of nervous origin, and his experience does not induce him to believe that the presence of valvular disease or muscular weakness of the heart adds anything to the danger of chloroform, unless these conditions exist to such an extent as materially to affect the circulation. Idiosyncrasy of nervous organization is, he believes, the circumstance that determines whether chloroform shall exercise a fatal influence on the heart's action. In one case, which he relates at length, the chloroform produced, after some hours, nausea and a copious secretion of viscid saliva, which con- tinued, gradually diminishing, till the second or third day. Besides these effects certain more remote results gradually developed themselves, in proportion to the length of time'that the habit had existed and the increased quantity taken on each occasion. These were insomnia, deaf- ness, apathy, tremulousness of hands, increase of the asthmatic tendency. The most strongly marked, and the most distressing of all, was tlie insomnia. It came on very gradually, and for a long time the cause of it was not suspected. The increased tendency to asthma depended probably on the chloroform rendering the nervous system more suscep- tible, shaky, and irritable. In another remarkable case the asthma never came on when the patient was asleep, and if she could in any way get to sleep tlie asthma was sure to cease ; chloroform only gave her permanent relief when it was inhaled at such a time when she would, if free from her asthma, be likely to sleep continuously.134 HBPOHT ON PRACTICAL IfEDICINE. Dn. H. GiiKENHOw.—Med. Tim. and Qaz., Feb. 20. Greenhow states that in cases of passive flux from tlie bronchial mem- brane, when expectorants cease to bo useful, he has used with much success tincture of larch, lie gives ni^xx—xxx with nitro-muriatic acid and tinct. of gentian. Its ellect as a remedy is to lessen gradually the amount of expectoration and with it the cougli and dyspnoea. Report of the Vienna Hospital for i860, '61, '62. Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. 123, p. 245. The view taken is that all cases of emphysema are not of the same kind, either pathologically or .ttiologically considered. AVhen the emijhyi^ema is partial, and has its seat, as is tiien usually the case, along the borders and at tlie apices of the lungs, is attended with some other lung affec tion, or has preceded it, the morbid alterations may have been principally induced by mechanical force, without any preceding disease of the lungs. It is otherwise in the dangerous lobar emphysema. The stealthy way in which this comes on, the almost entire absence of cough and of all other symptoms except the gradually increasing dyspnoea, and the tightness in the chest of which,the patients complain, the occasional ra- pidity with which the disease advances, the secondary consequences, and the general atrophy which not unfrequently ensues, all point to the grave character of the disorder, and to its constitutional origin from a degene- ration of the pnlmonary tissue, without our being able exactly to say whether this begins as a disease of the capillary vessel." or of the base- ment membrane and the ela.'^tic fibres. In this, as in the ca.«e of other diseases, we may derive important indications from the way in which it is influenced by remedial agents. Setting aside the bronchial and asthmatic symptoms, the chief pi'inciples according to which emphysema is to be treated are quite the same as guide us in the management of other degenerative diseases, as Bright's disease and fiitty degeneration of the heart. A persevering constitutional treatment, and especially the administration of iron, is productive of great advantage. D^Lioux DE SATiGifAC.—On the comparative efficacy of Musk and Acetate of Ammonia in the treatment of cases of severe Fneumonia tvith delirium. Bullet, gencr. de Th^rap., July 30, 1863. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eev., Jan., 1864. Delioux specifies opium, musk, and acetate of ammonia, as the most useful medicines in the treatment of those low forms of pneumonia which have been called typhoid, malignant, ataxic, or are accompanied with delirium. The physiological action of acetate of ammonia is not identical with that of musk, but is very like it in several respects. Both are antispasmodics, moderators of the nervous perturbation, regu- lators of the nervous influx, and, as they might be called, auti-ataxics. But musk at the same time sustains, and even stimulates, the nutritive organic actions, while acetate of ammonia lowers the circulation, and probably acts besides on the blood by attenuating its fibrin, as all the ammoniacal preparations do, and induces a proportionate degree of debility. Delioux states that since he has been in Provence, where diseases are often complicated with nervous symptoms, and wliere he185 UESPIUATOllY SYSTEM. has seen ataxic cases of pneumonia perhaps more frequently than else- where, acetate of ammonia has appeared to him to be more efficacious than musk, and he has therefore employed it with remarkable success. Pneumonia, complicated with eruptive fevers, and which Avoiild become malignant and accompanied with delirium, may be mitigated by musk or acetate of ammonia. If an adynamic condition prevails, musk, espe- cially the tincture, together with cinchona, appears to be preferable; but in De'lioux's experience acetate of ammonia in large doses relieves the pneumonia which is consecutive to measles and scarlatina. Lkvick, J,, M.D.—MemarTcs on the Epidemic Influenza of 1861 and 1863, with notices of some malignant forms of this disease. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci., Jan., 1864. Levick states that, though the influenzal is generally a mild form of disease, it is capable of developing symptoms of the gravest character, and that in all ages its periodical visitations have preceded, accom- panied, or succeeded, epidemic diseases of the most malignant and pesti- lential character. He notices as anomalous symptoms swelling of the parotid and other glands, earache, buzzing, and other sounds in the head, giddiness, intense pain in one eye, soreness, and in one instance exquisite tenderness in the abdominal muscles simulating peritonitis. In one case there was acute arthritis, with profuse renal haemorrhage. Intense mental depression was a more constant and more distressing symptom than the pulmonary complication ; indeed, it was often present without any accompanying pulmonary lesion. The latter he attributes to the operation of the poison on the respiratory nervous centres, which will give rise to dyspnosa, passive congestions, pulmonary oedema, and leave the ejifeebled lung exposed to the assaults of intlammatory or other disease. In several cases cutaneous eruptions were observed of a measly or lichenous character, sometimes covering the whole body. Occasionally influenza goes a degree further in the downward scale, and assumes the form of a putrid fever, with all the marks of septic- jemia. Hjalteltk, J., M.D.—JEpidemic Pneimonia in Iceland in the year 1863. Edin. Med. Journ., May, 1864. The author says—" It must certainly be accepted as a well-known fact that a cold climate, Avith a stormy and rigorous winter season, will generally in more or less degree give rise to severe and acute pulmonary atfections, and it is equally clear that such causes may in our " ultima Thule" work with greater energy than in the more temperate climates, and that even to such extent which medical men practising in the more southern latitudes scarcely may imagine. I am very well aware of the contrary view by some modern pathologists, who are inclined to look upon all diseases as well-defined things, which always, in all ages, and by all circumstances, will be the same; but such'a view, by which diseases are made up to a sort of individuals, like well-defined minerals, plants, or lower organisms, may do well in renowned medical books, but they will never be found borne out by facts; and looking more closely into the matter -^-e shall surely find out that the history of epidemics speaks strongly against such an accpptiou (assumption ?).136 KEPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. The proposition of old CgIhus, "Differunt quoque pro natur4 loeorum genera niedicina>, et aliud opus est Eomso, aliud in jEgypto, aliud in Gallia," 8till IioUIh good, and in verified by medical history since liis time. DiseascH are certainly no Htable things, no individuals, but very variable pathological phenomena, modified in an indefinite manner, according to various causes which produce them. The combination of many efiective causes seemed in our epidemic to influence tlie malignity of the disease; the heavy storms, the dry and cold air strongly impreg- nated with ozone, all combining tlieir irritant effect on the mucous membrane of the lungs and air-cells, must necessarily make all inflam- mations of the chest organs more dangerous in the high latitudes than they are in Great Britain, or in the countries of tlie same parallel." Hjaltelin gives short histories of 80 cases, of whicli 8 died. Three of these were drunkards, and 4 others were only seen in extremis, when there was no opportunity for treatment. In 4 autopsies the usual changes were found. He relates in a naive and interesting manner the results he has witnessed from hydropathic treatments, which seem to have been very favorable. He had previously, from his own experience, seen reason to moderate the use of the lancet, and subsequently he became well acquainted with all the arguments used in the blood- letting controversy. He details these circumstances to show that he was formerly inclined to no light degree of scepticism regarding the usefulness of bloodletting in pneumonia, and proceeds—"Many cases came in the mean time which convinced me of the necessity of bloodletting in the severer cases of this disease; and those cases were in this our epidemic far more numerous than I formerly would have expected. It is no doubt that it may be a rare occurrence in the warmer climates of Europe to see healthy and strong people so rapidly aff'ected by a pulmonary inflammation that death follows in 2 or 3 days; but this happened very often in our epidemic, and was the general rule when the disease was let alone. I saw several, even young, strong, and healthy people, who, the day before the attack, were at their work with- out any complaint, but who next day were nearly breathless, with all the symptoms of the most acute pleuropneumonia. I know a parish in the interior of our country, with only 300 souls, where 19 persons died thus affected in a very short time. Having been more than 16 years in foreign countries, I never saw any case of pneumonia which could be compared with the common cases of this our epidemic. It is clear to me that medical men who are accustomed to treat the ordinary sporadic pneumonias as they have occurred of late will hardly have any idea of this disease being so acute and malignant as it really was. It would, no doubt, have been a good lesson for the medical men of the nothing- doing treatment to see the ravages of this frightful disease amongst the helpless inhabitants in all the parishes where no medical aid was to be had, and they would have been able to see that their healing process of nature, which they call the natural progress, is in a really acute and malignant occurrence of the disease generally death, and nothing but death. In order to make this clearly out I asked several of the clergy- men of those parishes where little or no medical aid could be had to give me an account of the cases of pneumonia which might occur mHESPIllATOBY SYSTEM. 137 their neighboiirliood, aud some of tliem did this with due accuracy. (Icehmd has onlv 8 medical men, but i8o clergymen, who are mostly well educated and capable of contributing to the vital statistics of the country.) From these accounts it was clear enough that nearly all the patients wlio were without any medical aid died in 3 to 6 days. Thus, in the parish of Gardor, with about 1200 souls, aud where medical aid could seldom be had, out of 24 patients 17 died. In the parish of Utskalar, witli 900 souls, where 19 fell sick, and where medical aid could not be obtained, 11 died. In the parish of Kalfabjorn, with 800 souls, nearly all the affected, their number being 14, died ; and such has the result been everywhere in all those parishes vrhich have been destitute of medical interference." Hjaltelin, in the beginning, made use of the lancet with some hesitation; but experience very soon taught him that bloodletting was more necessary in this sort of pneumonia than he had anticipated. The insupportable pain beneath the right nipple, across the chest—the great dyspncea, which in some diseased seemed to threaten with imminent danger—the disturbed balance in the circulation—were generally greatly relieved; and the hard, incom- pressible, but often irregular, pulse, became more regular after the loss of 8 to 12 oz. of blood. The relief thus obtained was not always momentary, but could last for several hours or even one day; and although the rapid and dangerous pulmonary congestion could by no means be subdued by this remedy, it was evidently of great service to calm the storm until it could be lowered by other means, as by the use of calomel, which I in all dangerous cases, according to my former custom, made bold use of until the gums began to be a little touched." Hjaltelin states that up to the year of this epidemic he had not lost a single patient in pneumonia. The calomel was given in 2-grain doses combined with a little opium, every second or third hour, according to the severity of the case. In most serere cases each dose was combined with half a grain of tartarized antimony. This treatment was continued only until the gums were slightly affected; it was then stopped, light but nourishing diet ordered, the patients kept well covered in bed, and, if possible, the room heated by the vapour of hot water. Augmentation of the chlorides in the urine was constantly observed as a consequence of the administration of calomel, and Hjaltelin is inclined to consider that the drug was the cause of the excretion. Chloroform inhalation, short of producing complete antesthesia, was of use to lessen the painful cough and the sensation of pain in the chest. When there was a con- siderable pleuritic effusion Hjaltelin sometimes used blisters, but more commonly the iodized hydroiodic ointment of Prof Delioux, which he found very effectual. In pleurisy warm fomentations of pure water, in which a good deal of carbonate of potash is dissolved, were always found very serviceable. jReport of iJie Tienna Hospital for i860, '61, '62. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, p. 244. The pneumonic cases amounted in i860 to 189, in 1861 to 334, and in 1862 to 272, forming a total of 795, of whom 552 recovered, while 177 died. The mortality was greater among females than males, that 113S REPORT OX PRACTICAL IfEDICINE. of the latter ranging from 18-22 to 26-j i, that of the former from 25-27 to 37-18. Most cases occurred in the decade from to to 30 yeara of a>'e. Treatment was most successful in tlie first 10 years of life, and from that period it gradually became less so with advancing years, so that after the /Joth year tiio per-centage of mortality exceeded that of re- covery. The disease was most prevalent in tlie first 15 months of the year, especially in March, April, and May. Most of the patients traced their attack to a chill, but it is doubtful how often this sensation should be regarded as one of the first morbid plieuomena of which they were conscious, and how often it was actually produced by an excessive degree of cold. It was only in the minority that the disease began with a violent febrile paroxysm announcing a grave impending disease, and that the local affection became physically demonstrable on the 2nd or 3rd day, wliilo the febrile movement continued more or less violent. In other cases fever gradually supervened and increased in proportion to the advance of the local mischief. Tlie view appears, therefore, warranted, that in certain instances a local action on the lungs pro- voked an inflammatory process, while in others certain alterations in the blood preceded, and the action of the respiratory process on this altered blood led to, a localization of an exudation process in the lungs. Under the head of treatment, the following remarks are made. If at a former period blood was taken too often, in too great quantity, and too indis- criminately, it is now certain that at the present day too little use is made of this remedy. Many ill results justify this remark and con- tradict, in a deplorable manner, the recent notion that venesection is to be entirely rejected. A circumstance which is of special significance in this question, and which, with a few exceptions, justifies bleeding, is the existence of hardness of the pulse. This kind of pulse separates abruptly the influenzal pneumonia from acute sthenic ; with respect to its adaptation to venesection, the former bears bleeding very badly, in the second it is useful and necessary. A strong, tense, or hard pulse requires, as a rule, even a repetition of bleeding, while, on the contrary, when the pulse is above 110, and compressible and weak, when the patient is of delicate constitution or of advanced age, venesection is not indicated. So also it acts in general prejudicially when the disease is produced by infectious matters, septic poisons. Depressing mental conditions, an atmosphere laden with malarious exhalations and impure matters, or that of great cities, especially in narrow streets, damp dwel- lings, deep cellars, crowded hospitals, hinders the good effects of bleed- ing, and makes it even injurious. In general, it is recognised that individual cases of pneumonia are often so dissimilar that it is im- possible to put them all into one class, and to lay down for their treat- ment one and the same method. The aspect of the patient, the state of the pulse, of the nervous and muscular systems, and of the skin, the sputa, &c., must reveal to us the true quality of the disease, and aflbrd us the best grounds for our judgment and action. If we are in doubt as to the right course to pursue, the best plan is to test the body cautiously witli an agent of known efficacy, and to observe the result. Hitherto there has been too much tendency to regard inflammation as au always quite uniform process, and to treat it as such always quiteaESPIRATOEY SYSTEM. 189 uniformly. It may be admitted that at the present day, iu this country and in our liospitals, cases are rare which require considerable blood- letting and lowering remedies, and in which for the lessening of an active°inflammation more than moderate measures are necessary ; never- theless there are cases recurring at different times, more or less numerous, wliere tlie contrary prevails, where an expectant treatment is very injurious, because it allows the disorder to prolong its duration, or even to proceed to a fatal issue. Brxson.—On Einclemic Pleuro-pneumonia in some Ships of the Medi- terranean Fleet in i860. ^Lancet, Jan. 9. The disease was of a low asthenic or typhoid type, accompanied with gi-eat congestion of the lungs, usually of the lower lobes, and, in many of the cases, in the ship chiefly affected—the St. Jean d'Acre—with scorbutic symptoms, although the diet of her crew was, in every respects, as good as in the other vessels of the squadron. In the Cressy, too, there was an unusual prevalence of lung disease, often of an obscure and anomalous character, which was not easy to designate. The evi- dencies of tlie pulmonary tissue being congested or even consolidated,, iu different parts of the chest, associated with pleurisy or pleurodynia, and with such a cachectic condition of the system as might probably lead on to tubercular degeneration in chronic cases, were the most conspicuous features of the malady. Eff"usion into the chest was dis- covered in a few instances. Diarrheal and dysenteric attacks were common both iu the early and in the later stage. From a table given, showing the number of the ci'ew in each ship, and the number of cases of sickness, it appears, on taking the per-centage, that the Marlborough, with the largest crew, had, in the course of the year, 81 "6 per-cent. cases of sickness, the Agamemnon io4"9, the St. Jean d'Acre ig&j^, : and the Cressy 206 per cent. The diseases are classified as pulmonary, intestinal, continued and remittent fevers, and ulcers. The pulmonary were more numerous than all the others put together, in the ratio of 1069 : 1044. The deaths from disease in the St. Jean d'Acre and in the Cressy were twice as numerous as in the Marlborough, notwith- standing the much smaller crews of the former vessels ; and the number invalided from the first ship was fourfold as numerous. As to the chief cause of this enormous disproportion in the sickness and mortality, &c., in two ships of the same fleet and similarly exposed, it was clearly shown that this lay iu the excessive overcrowding of the men at night in the St. Jean d'Acre on the lower deck, while in the Marlborough the men were more distributed on the different decks, and greater attention was paid to ventilation of the between decks. Only 14 inches of space were allowed to each hammock in the former ship, and so thoroughly was cool fresh air excluded from the men while asleep that the air (above the hammocks was found to be from 8 to 10° hotter than tlie air below the hammocks, and so offensively impure as to cause nausea to |any one going down from the open air. With such a state of thino-s it lis not wonderful that the health of the ship was so bad during the'two Jyears while on the station that it was at last found necessary to send iher back to England to be paid off". Besides several features of re-140 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. semblauce in the symptoms of the pleuro-pneumony ia the St. Jean d'Acre and Cressy to the lung disease in cattle, it is to be noted that there are good grounds for suspecting tliat the affection was commu- nicated by the sick landed from these vessels to other patients in Malta Hospital. BfiniER.—0/i Thoracentesis in PleuriUc E/pasion. .Tourn. de Med. et de Chir. pratiq. Edin. Med. Journ., Aug. The operation is indicated and ought to be performed—in all cases where the effusion is in large quantity, and does not diminish rapidly under the ordinary means, and still more if it goes on increasing; in all cases where the patient appears too delicate, too weak, to bear up against the long process of resorption of an effusion which occupies completely, or nearly so, one side of the chest; in all cases where, though the effusion is not very copious, we find the opposite lung impeded in the performance of its function, as by bronchitis, a certain degree of cedema, &c.; in all cases where we believe we have to do with a patient predisposed to pulmonary phthisis, whether we can make out itg existence in either of the lungs or not. Before practising the operation we wait, if possible, until the inflammatory phenomena have abated, which generally occurs between the 9th and the nth days. At the same time it must be borne in mind that inflammatory symptoms may be altogether absent, or at least very little marked in a large number of cases of copious effusions, and that it is precisely in these cases that sudden deaths are most frequent, as they are also those that recover best after thoracentesis. To refuse the operation in such circumstances, on account of the slight apparent gravity of the disease, and because we observe neither violent dyspnoea nor imminent asphyxia, would be, in our opinion, a grave fault on the part of the physician. These cases frequently occur in persons of little vital energy ; their very passiveness is often an obstacle to their cure by ordinary means. KiDD, Gr. H.—On the use of the Drainage-tuhe for removal of Jliiids caused into the cavity of the Pleura. Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sciences, May, 1864. Kidd states (i) that the drainage-tube may be introduced into the cavity of the pleura with safety, and that in suitable cases it is a most efficient means of treatment. (2) In empyema the result of acute and chronic pleuritis it appears to be most useful, and in cases where the fluid in the pleura has been ascertained to be purulent, the sooner the tube is introduced the better is the prospect of a cure. (3) In cases where, after tapping, the fluid, which, in the first instance, is serous, reaccumulates quickly, produces much distress of breathing, the plan of drainage claims to be considered ; and a case recorded by Dr. Banks affords great encouragement to its use. (4) Where a fistulous opening exists in the wall of the thorax, but the discharge docs not escape freely, the retained portion becoming decomposed, the making of a counter-opening at the lowest part of the cavity, and introducing a tube, is shown by Goodfellow's and Gordon's cases to be highly advantageous. (5) In cases of hydro-pneumothorax the introduction of the tube may141 RESPIRATOUY SySTEM. I not only palliate the sufferings of the patient, but prolong life. (6) The removal of the tube must not be attempted so long as pus con- j tinues to bo secreted ; but when this has ceased the tube may be with- drawn. If the tube appear to be keeping up the discharge, it may be i replaced by silk thread, so as to keep the opening patulous, and allow fluids to escape. The threads also afford an easy means of reintroducing I the tube, if this should become requisite. Keeuser, BoucnuT.— On Tuberculosis of the Bronchial Glands. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. lai, p. 176. Kreuser states that tuberculous enlargement of the bronchial glands , may occur as an idiopathic disease in adults, though it is not nearly so ' frequent in them as in children. Tuberculosis of the lungs, or of other organs, may either be absent or too slight to cause death. ('"Wurtemb. , Corr. Blatt.,' xxxiii, 16, 1863). Bouchut considers tuberculosis of the 1' bronchial glands to be very rare as a primary aff'ection, and generally to occur secondarily to similar disease of the lungs. When the glands I attain a very large size they may compress the bronchi and great ; vessels, displace the oesophagus, and irritate the vagi nerves. Com- ' pression of the superior cava and pulmonary artery may cause oedema of the face, distension of the superficial cervical veins, epistaxis, and hfemoptysis. The occurrence of asthmatic paroxysms without any discoverable disease of the heart or lungs is a very significant symptom of the probable existence of bronchial tuberculosis. Weakening of the vesicular murmur over one of the lobes of the lungs, attended with duluess in the sternal region, indicates compression of a bronchus. Death is apt to be produced by haemoptysis or suff"ocation, but recovery is possible (' Gaz. des Hopit., 108, 109, 1863). Cotton, E. P. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' June 25), gives a summary of his I observations during 5 years on the treatment of phthisis by different therapeutic agents. Each substance was tried with 25 patients. Phosphorus, in the form of phosphoretted oil, produced considerable improvement in 4, slight in 5, none in 16. Liquor jDotassae gave, as cor- responding numbers, i, 2, and 23. Hydrochloric acid 11, 6, and 8. Iodide of iron 10,4, and 11. Iodide of potassium 6,5, and 14. Chloride of sodium 8, 6, and 11. Vinum Ferri 13, 3, and 9. Grlycerine 4, 2, and 19. Scsquichloride of iron 12, 5, and 8. Chlorate of potash 5, 4, and 16. Quinine 7, 5, and 13. Phosphoric acid 3, 8, and 14. Cotton's general conclusions are—(i) that none of these agents deserves the title of specific; (2) that the good produced by them is due to their tonic influence ; (3) in the majority of cases steel, especially Tr. Perrr Sesquichl., and the mineral acids, appear to be most effective ;' (4) since, jhowever, these as well as other useful tonics are undoubtedly inert in la certain proportion of cases, it is not improbable that there are varieties or modifications of phthisis, each of which may require a par- ticular treatment, according to the analogy of many other diseases. Cotton anticipates that observation and experiment will show that under certain, at present obscure, conditions of system phthisis assumesREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 142 definite and special forms, each of whicH requires definite and special management. Beau ('Ediu. Med. Joiirii.,' Aug.) records facts substantiating hia opinion that pleurisy may give rise to plitliisis in a patient who ])re- viously appeared free from this disease. He does not advise a spare diet during the pleurisy, because, by debilitating the system, it renders it more liable to tlie invasion of disease. "WoiLLEZ.—Bull. gen. de Thcirap., Jan. 15, 1863. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eev., Jan., 1864. States that tannin has an undoubted influence in improving tiie general condition of the phthisical patient, and in inducing a favorable change in nutrition, and that its tonic action is compai-able to that of cinchona. But he admits that this favorable action on the nutrition, and its reparative influence on the pulmonary lesion, are not constant; and he cannot accurately state the proportion of successful and un- successful cases he has observed. Even in the advanced period of pulmonary consumption Woillez has' known tannin produce a favor- able result, by arresting the symptoms in their progress, and in modify- ing them to such a degree as to produce an apparent cure. The principal conditions in which tanniu has seemed to fail in phthisis are the con- tinuance of fever, the i-apidity of the course of the disease, and the existence of recent delivery in women—circumstances which seem to make phthisis almost necessarily fatal. Smith, E., M.D.—Dietary in disease—in Phthisis. Lancet, April 16. Smith says emaciation is universal in cases of phthisis, but varies in degree and in the period of the disease at which it occurs. It depends (i) on defective appetite for certain kinds or for all kinds of food ; (2) on defective digestion; (3) on defective assimilation. Dislike of fat is one of the most striking features of the dainty appetite in the early stage, as also in states of general debility, and among certain classes, as tailors and shoemakers, who are particularly prone to fall into phthisis. "Whatever may be the dislike of fat, it never includes fat of every kind. Smith states that he found, in his researches relative to this subject, that, of five kinds of fats—viz., butter, suet, milk, bacon, and fat of butcher's meat—whilst only 51 per cent, ate all kinds, 72 per cent, ate 4 kinds, 82 per cent, ate 3 kinds, and 99 per cent, ate 2 kinds. Hence it is not difiicult to select some kinds of fat which are tolerated ; and of these butter and bacon, or fat boiled pork, should be used as freely as possible at the breakfast and tea meals. The following amount of fat should be eaten daily :—Butter iu milk, 2|. oz.; separate, 2 oz.; bacon or fat pork, from 2 to 4 oz. ; salad oil, i oz. ; fat in meat (20 per cent.), li oz.; suet in puddings, i oz., or i oz. twice a week, and cream ad libiium; which, besides the cream, will aftbrd upwards of 6oz. of car- bon, or nearly two thirds of the required daily quantity. For the purpose of invigorating the weak digestive and assimilative power, as much out- door exercise should be taken as possible—not less than 4 to 6 hours daily, when the strength and weather will permit. Alcohol in its143 UESPIUATOUY SYSTEM. various forms aud fats act beneficially on the sldu, by lessening its tendency to be soft and active. In all cases of early phthisis advancing towards health, in whom there is improved appetite and assimilation and increased weight of body, the skin assumes a condition of com- parative roughness and dryness. Beigel, B-.— On Spirometri/. Lancet, Jan. 30, Feb. 13. Beigel's formula rests upon measuring the thorax, in order to calcu- late its volume (V) from it. The upper, middle, and lower circum- ference of the chest are added, and divided by 3. This quotient {x) is raised to the square, and the result is multiplied by the front length of the chest {h). This result is divided by 36. The received quotient is taken in halves, and thus we obtain the amount of respiration V, =~^* If the calculated amount of respiration exceeds 3000 c.c, it is necessary, after the formula has been calculated as before, that h be subtracted from H (the side length). The remainder is then to be divided in halves, and the result, already divided by 2, divided by the dividing quotient, and this quotient is to be subtracted from the quantity of respiration. HoEACE DoBELi/, M.D.—On the Assimilation of Fat in Consumption. Lancet, Sept. 10. In 71 cases, where there were unequivocal signs of tubercle in the lungs, 16 liked fat and 46 liked sugar, while 5^ disliked fat and 2^ disliked sugar. Of those who liked fat only, 19 per cent, were in the third stage of the disease; whereas of those who disliked fat 38 per cent, were in the third stage, while of those who liked sugar 37 per cent, were in the third stage. Mr. Hutchinson analysed 56 cases of consumption in different stages, and found that abotit 71 per cent, disliked fat and about 37 per cent, disliked sugar. If Mr. Hutchinson's cases and Dobell's are added together, we have 127 cases in which about 74 per cent, disliked fat and about 36 per cent, disliked sugar. With a view of testing by direct experiment whether this dislike for fat is due to a defect in the eraulsitying properties of the pancreatic secretion, Dobell treated a series of cases of consumption with pan- creatic juice, artificially introduced into the digestive apparatus. An emulsion of beef fat was prepared with the pancreatic juice of the pig, of the consistence of thick Devonshii'e cream. This, in the proportion of half an ounce in a breakfast-cupful of milk, was not at all an unpleasant drink. The treatment was continued 8 weeks. The whole 33_ cases—7 being in the first stage, 14 in the second, and 12 in the third—were treated by this new remedy, with the following results :— Measured by general symptoms—improved, 24 ; stationary, 2 ; worse, 4; not noted, 3. Measured by physical signs—iinproA'ed, 13; sta- tionary, 10 ; worse, 5 ; not noted, jj. Emulsion agreed, 30 ; disagreed, 3. Cod-liver oil agreed in 13, disagreed in 11, not tried in 9. Average quantity of emulsion taken by each patient, about i oz. avoirdupois in I pint of milk each day for 8 weeks. The 33 patients consumed about T05 lbs. of emulsion, which retiuired 315 pancreases to emulsify the fat.144 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MKDICINE. Blake.—Brit, and For. Mocl.-Chir. llev., July, 1864. RelateB the partii-ulars of 7 cases of ])litlii8i8 sliowiiig the influeuce of living completely in the open air. The locality whore his patients resided was in tlie coast range of the mountains of California, 3—5000 feet above the sea, where the temperature is very equable, and no rain falls for 5 or 6 months. When the rainy season arrives a short sea- yoyage takes the patient to Northern Mexico, where the winter climate is exactly analogous to the summer climate of San Francisco. The patients are directed not even to sleep in tents, but out under the trees, and to live on the game which is found in the mountains. Except where the lungs are too extensively destroyed, Blake believes there are few cases which may not be cured by the above method, Htde Salter, M.D., F.E.S. —0» Tracheal Dysphagia. Lancet, July 2, 23. Salter says there are two kinds of dysphagia—one in which there is some embai'rassment or obstruction in the act, and the other in which swallowing is painful, and only difficult because painful: remove the pain, and there is nothing left. His observations refer only to the latter form of dysphagia, and to it. as affecting the oesophagus. The two diseases to which oesophageal dysphagia principally points are aneurism of the aorta and malignant or other organic stricture of the gullet; and it is because it points to these two mortal diseases that it becomes so momentous a symptom. But the dysphagia to which Salter directs attention is not ffisopliageal dysphagia; it is so apparently.hni not really; and it is because it simulates this the gravest form of dysphagia, and yet is entirely free from any of the gravity and serious- ness of that affection, that the detection of its true nature becomes so interesting and important. Five cases are recorded, the first of which, being related by a medical man, who was himself the patient, may be quoted as a type of the disorder. A. B., set. 40, enjoys very good health, except that he is liable to take cold, which is very apt to aflect his chest, giving him sternal soreness, accompanied with cough and expectoration for three or four mornings. His first attack of the dysphagia was many years ago, and he has had many of them since. He first noticed it in the night, as he almost always has ; the attacks are all alike, differing only a little in severity. He thus describes one of them:—" I go to bed with a feeling that I have taken a cold. I have been sneezing, perhaps, and shivering, and have a certain amount of feverishness, and it may be a little sore throat. Perhaps I ftel a little of what is called a sore chest—a rawness at the top of my sternum, passing back to between the shoulders; so much so some- times that I have had a mustard plaster on my chest for it. I go to bed and to sleep, but in the night I wake with a sense of severe and horrible pain beneath the upper part of the breast-bone. The moment after I wake I find it subside, at least in a great degree; but on the first occasion on Avhich I swallow my saliva after waking (a thing one is constantly doing) I again experience it; and I have no doubt it is the pain occasioned by an act of swallowing during Bleep that in these attacks wakes me up. The pain is somethingDIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 145 I horrible ; it is of tbe same kind as that j)loughing up of the chest ex- perieuceil with a very sore chest each time one coughs, only worse. It is as if a dozen laucets were plunged into the top of the sternum each time an act of swallowing is made. The pain coincides with the muscular act of deglutition, and in no way succeeds it; the moment the voluntary part of the act is over, the height of the pain subsides, and nothing'but the abiding sense of soreness remains. _ I early dis- covered—whether accidentally or by an intuitive perception, I cannot tell—that the position of the head made a great difference—all the difterence—to the pain; that if the head was thrown back, and therefore the chin raised, the pain on swallowing was the greatest —much greater than when the head was in the ordinary position; that in proportion as the head was bent forward the pain on Bwallowiug was diminished; and that if the chin was quite bent down on the breast, absolutely no increase of pain might be felt on swallowing, at a time when swallowing with the chin raised gave intolerable suffering. The height of the attack only lasts a few hours; in the course of the morning it gradually becomes much mitigated, but I still take the precaution of depressing my chin on my breast each time I swallow. In a or 3 days all pain on swallowing has ceased, and the abiding soreness at the top of the sternum has also nearly dis- appeared. The disappearance of the pain on swallowing coincides with the diminution of the sternal soreness, and with the appearance of expectoration ; the moment I can cough up a pellet or two of mucus the swallowing is easier. On one occasion a pellet of gelatinous mucus which I coughed up had a spot of blood upon it. I have observed that, when I am suffering from this painful swallowing, I have a certain amount of the same pain on taking a very deep inspiration, the severity of the pain being proportionate to the depth of the inspiratory act." Another patient describes his dysphagia as follows:—Every time he swallowed it felt, as the bolus of food was passing the painful part, as if it was a round ball covered with thorns. The seat of the pain was underneath the lower end of the breast-bone, " as near the breast-bone as could be, and passed backwards right between the shoulder-blades." Coughing occasioned pain and a sense of scraping in the same situa- tion. The dysphagia with the cough lasted 6 months, and the suffering from swallowing was so great that he only ate one meal a day, and that not more than half a penny bun, and every particle he ate he had soaked. His voice at the same time was hoarse, and for 3 weeks he nearly lost it. In a second attack, while under Salter's observa- tion, the pain in swallowing was not quite so severe as on the first occasion, but still it was so great as quite to convulse him. Salter watched him while he was swallowing a piece of bread crum, and says that he was quite easy as long as he was chewing ; but the moment he tried to swallow it his difficulty began. The effort was evidently attended with the most severe pain; the expression of his face and the contortions of his body indicated great sutl'ering, and it was only after two or three eff"orts that the food apparently passed. He felt as if each mouthful he swallowed stopped beneath the sternum, and lodged there till he swallowed another mouthful, and that pushed it on. A blister 10REPOllT ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE. 146 on the steruuui, at a spot correspoudiug to the seat of pain, with opium, chloric ctlier, and ipecacuaiilia, internally, jiroved eflectual remedies. After observing that the dysphagia cannot be of faucial or pharyngeal origin, Salter states that it is clear, from the issue of the cases, that the pain is not due to any of the graver causes of oesophageal dysphagia—ulcer, stricture, aneurism ; they get well completely and quickly. Besides, there is a complete absence of the essential symp- toms of any of these aiiectious ; and that the pain is not due to oesophageal dysphagia of any kind is shown by the time at which it occurs—viz., at the very moment of faucial deglutition, at the commence- ment of tbe act, before the bolus of food has fairly become engaged in the pharynx, still less in the oesophagus. By the time oesophageal deglutition has commenced the height of the pain is over. Against , the hypothesis that the pain depends on a rheumatic state of some of the muscles concerned in deglutition, Salter objects that in these cases no symptoms of rheumatism were present, and the seat of the pain was not that of muscles undergoing contraction at the time. If it be said that pain is felt in muscles that are stretched as well as those that are contracting if in a rheumatic state, that when the larynx is drawn upwards the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid must be on the stretch, and that the pain may be due to a rheumatic condition of their sternal attacbments—Salter replies that the identity of the pain with that produced by coughing, its association with and proportion to the i other bronchial symptoms, and its seat being in some cases far too low i for the sternal attachment of the depressions of the hyoid bone, prove ! that it cannot be rheumatic. The symptoms all point to the view that j the pain is dependent on catarrhal inflammation, and in some cases ' ulceration of the lining membrane of the windpipe. Every symptom tbat such a state would imply is present, and no symptom that such a state would involve is wanting ; the preliminary cold, never absent in any case that I have seen, the croupy cough and croupy voice, the sternal soreness, the mucous secretion, the points of blood in the expectorated mucus, the tenderness on pressure over the windpipe, the mitigation of the dysphagia on the appearance of the secretion, and its final departure with that of the other symptoms of the respii'atory affection. The explanation of how the pain on swallowing is produced ia as follows:—Every time we swallow, the upper extremity of the windpipe is drawn up ; but the lower is fixed at the roots of the lungs, and is unmoved by deglutition. Every time, therefore, that we swallow, the windpipe is stretched. In the healthy condition of the parts this gives rise to no sensation; but as soon as the lining membrane is inflamed pain results. That this stretching of the windpipe is the cause of the pain is shown by every circumstance of the case, especially by that experimentum crucis—the regulation of the pain by the position of the chin. The muscles that draw the larynx forwards and upwards in swallowing, the genio-hyoid, the mylo-hyoid, and the anterior belly of the digastricus, produce most effect when the chin and jaw are raised, and vice versa. Thus we see that, while swallowing with the head in the ordinary position may be attended with moderate pain, the elevation of the chin causes the pain to be intense, while depression147 DIGESTIVE SYSTEif. I may obliterate the pain altogether; in other words, the pain is pro- portioned to the stretching. The time at which the pain is felfc is entirely consistent with this explanation—it is at the moment the larynx is drawn up; and equally consistent with it, and with no other, is the production of a certain amount of the same kind of pain by taking a deep inspiration. Here, too, the windpipe is stretched ; but the fixed and movable ends are reversed to what they are in swallowing. In treatment no regard is paid to the dysphagia; the state of the windpipe alone was considered. F. A. Bullet.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., July 30. Eecords a case of hard nodulated tumour of the tongue, apparently of a cancerous nature, which disappeared after existing 2 or 3 months under the use of Galium Aperinum. The dose given was about 6 grains of the solid extract ter die. Fenwick, S., M.D.—On the condition of the Stomach and Intestines in Scarlatina. Proc. of Med. and Chir. Soc, 1864. The object of this paper is to prove the following propositions :—ist. That the mucous membrane of the oesophagus, stomach, and intestines, is inflamed in scarlatina. 2nd. That desquamation of the epithelium of these parts takes place. 3rd. That notwithstanding the anatomical changes in the mucous membrane of the stomach, the formation of pepsine is not prevented. 4th. That the condition of the skin is similar to the condition of the mucous membrane in scarlatina. In support of the first proposition, the microscopic conditions of the mucous mem- branes of the oesophagus, stomach, and intestines, were detailed in 10 cases of death from scarlatina during the first week of illness, and in 6 cases who died in the second and third weeks of the fever. The first effects of the scarlatina poison upon the mucous membrane of the stomach were shown to be congestion of the blood-vessels and the stripping of the epithelium from the tubes and the surface of the organ, and also the softening of the tissues. The tubes are greatly distended by granular and fatty matters, or by small cells intermixed with granules, and in some cases they are lined by newly formed mem- brane. Sometimes no normal cells can be distinguished; in other cases they are present, but are scattered irregularly. After the second or third week the tubes are found less distended than at an earlier period; and whilst their closed ends are still loaded with granular matters, which greatly obscure the gastric cells, these become more evident towards the surface of the mucous membrane. The cells at this period are sometimes very large, sometimes loaded with fat or coated with granules, and seem to have but little adhesion to their base- ment membrane, as they readily separate from the tubes, but adhere closely to each other. The effects of the inflammation upon the intes- tines seem in slighter cases to consist in the eff"usion of granular and fatty matters into the mucous membrane; but.in more severe cases the tubes of Lieberkiihn are obstructed by epithelial cells, whilst extravasations of blood take place in the villi, and these, with the rest of the mucous membrane, are loaded with small cells and granules. In148 ItKl'OllT ON I'lUCTlCAI, JIKDICINE. one case the iiiucoua incinbraiie was entirely stripped of villi, excepting a few fragments whicli still remained, and iiie enlarged and prominent openings of tlie follicles of Lieberkiihn gave its surfuco the appearance of a sieve. In some instances evidences of disease were found in the pancreas. The second proposition was more difficult of proof, inas- much as vomiting usually occurs only in the first stage, and Ecnwick had no opportunity of examining the vomited matters at this period of the disease. In one case, in which vomiting took place in the third week, fibrinous casts of the stomach-tubes were discovered, and inflam- mation of the mucous membrane was proved to have existed by post- mortem examination. The chief reason upon which the opinion that desquamation of the epithelium occurs was derived from the micro- scopic examination of the contents of the stomachs of those who had died of this disease. The contents in recent cases consisted of pieces of fine membrane, of cells, and of granules and shreds of membrane. The membranes were of the shape and size of the tubes of the stomach, and were covered with granules and fat. The cells varied from -i-^Q-fj to -g-joo inch, and were usually fi'inged with fine pieces of membrane. In cases of longer duration the membranes were covered with cells, and were also of the size and shape of the stomach-tubes. In order to ascertain if these appearances were trustworthy as evidences of inflammation, the contents of the stomachs of 45 subjects were examined, and the condition of the mucous membrane at the same time being noted. In only i were there any fibrinous casts, and it was in a case of acute gastritis. In 18 there were only separate cells, chiefly of the columnar form; and in none of these was there any inflammatory action. In 8 cases casts of the upper parts of the tubes were plentiful, composed only of healthy conical cells, and in all the mucous membrane was in a natural condition. In 18 there were either plugs formed of cells and granules from the secreting parts of the tubes, or the casts of conical cells were overlaid with granular matters; and in all of these the stomach was more or less inflamed. Two cases of gastritis unconnected with scarlatina were also quoted as examples of the forms in which casts of the stomach-tubes appeared in vomited matters during life; and the author stated lie had detected casts of the stomach-tubes in matters vomited by persons atfected with gastritis connected with diseased kidneys, with inflammatory dyspepsia, and other forms of inflammation of the gastric mucous membrane. It was urged that if casts of the gastric tubes can be discovered during life in cases of gastritis, and if in scarlatina this condition exists, and casts have been found in the stomach after death, there is every probability that desquamation of the epithelium takes place in this organ as it does in the skin and in the kidneys. In support of the third proposition, the results of the following experiments were given in 3 cases of scarlatina:—10 grains of hard-boiled white of egg were digested at a temperature of 90° for 12 hours in an infusion of the mucous mem- brane, to which 3 per cent, of hydrochloric acid had been previously added. The average loss of albumen was 3I grains. Similar experi- ments performed on the stomachs of 11 males, who died of various diseases at the same hospital, gave an average loss of 4 grains, so tha14-9 DIGESTIVE SYSTEHr. there had been scarcely any diminution of pei)shie produced by the fever. As a contrast to this were the results of similar experiments upon 4 cases who died of typhus fever. In 2 of these the albumen had gained 3 grains of weight by imbibition, and was not at all softened; whilst in the other 2 it was softened, and i had lost only half a grain, the other i^, in weight. But as the activity of the digestion must depend, not only upon the relative amount of pepsine, but also on the bulk of the mucous membrane, this was also attempted to be estimated. The average weight of the mucous membrane of 10 males dying of various diseases was 18 drachms, the weight of 2 recent cases of scarlatina was i8 and 16 drachms (the latter being in a boy), whilst it only amounted to 15 drachms in one who died in the third week of illness. In 4 cases of typhoid fever the average weight of the mucous membrane only reached 11 drachms. The skin was microscopically examined in 3 cases. In the first, in which the patient died after a few days' illness, the only morbid appearance in the cutis was an occasional minute extravasation of blood in the neighbourhood of the sudoriferous ducts. The rete mucosum was greatly thickened, and numerous round cells with large nuclei were everywhere visible, inter- mixed with the natural cells. The basement membranes of the sweat- glands were thickened, and the epithelium lining them was so much increased that in most cases it obstructed their channels. In some of the sweat-glands the coils of which they were composed were loaded with coagulated blood, and were gi-eatly and irregularly distended. In the other recent case the appearances were similar, excepting that the external layers of the cuticle were stained with blood in minute patches, and the sweat-ducts were also reddened; but there were no extravasations of blood either in the glands or cutis. In some of the ducts the epithelium was detached from the basement membranes. In the case of a man who died during the third week the sudoriferous tubes were still choked up; but in the glands the epithelium seemed in many places to be torn away, leaving the basement membranes bare or only covered by ragged particles. The cutis was in a natural condition. The author stated that although he had, in accordance with the usual custom, described the appearances of the skin and mucous membranes as the results of inflammation, yet that certain considerations suggested the idea that the term when so used was perhaps misapplied. In scarlatina we find that in each part the morbid condition is mostly confined, in the first intance, to the basement membranes, and consists in the formation of layers of new cells, which in the skin are trans- formed into cuticle of natural appearance, and in the stomach contain pepsine. If future researches should prove that a similar condition occurs in the kidneys and other parts, it will be necessary to look upon the structural changes produced as resulting from increased physio- logical rather than from pathological action, and that the primary effect of the scarlatina poison is suddenly and violently to stimulate the natural cell growth of the various secreting organs. Report of the Vienna Hospital for i860,'61, '62.--Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, p. 243.UEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 150 During epidemics of typhus, gastric and intestinal catarrhs became prevalent, and continued for a considerable time after tlieir cessation, though less extensive and severe. The culminating point of the curve of tlie catarrhal dism-der seems to iiavo coincided with that of the fever, or nearly. The following arrangement of cases of tlie former kind is given—(») tiiose where tlie gastro-intestinal catarrh set in, accoinpanied by a periodic fever, of tertian type, witli regular stages and intermissions, which, after a to 4 paroxysms, became continuous, while at the same time the phenomena of an acute catarrhal aflection became more prominent; {b) gastro-intestinal catarrh, with choleraic symptoms, its stormy outset and course coming to a speedy conclusion, and recovery taking place in a few days ; (c) gastro-intestinal catarrh, ■with typhus symptoms. In these the "violence of the symptoms at the commencement, and the high fever, attended with slight splenic en- largement, diarrhea, and meteorism, presented a very deceptive i-esem- blance to typhus; but the distinction was evidenced by the rapid decline of all these symptoms and the speedy recovery. Tbask, J. B.—On the use of Trisnitrate of Bismuth in acute and chronic Diarrhcea. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 285. Trask reports very favorably of the action of this drug, both in the acute and chronic disorder. It seems to have acted better alone than when given with calomel. A single dose of from 20 to 50 grains seems to have been sufficient in the acute form. In 74 cases the disorder had lasted between 20 and 210 days, and the number of stools daily varied from 6 to 12. All of these, with the exception of 11 patients in whom the disorder had lasted from 90 to 210 days, took a daily dose of 60 grains, or two of 40 grains, and all recovered, on an average, in days. Chapman, J., M.D.—Sea-sickness, its nature and treatment. Med. Tim. and Gaz., Sept. ,3, 10. Chapman says, " The doctrine of the excito-motor or'reflex functions of the spinal cord is a guide to the whole physiology of sickness, and following it I was led to predict how to prevent, arrest, or control, not only sea-sickness, but also how to remedy or palliate every kind of sickness, whatever may be its primary cause. I hold that the proxi- mate cause of sea-sickness consists in an undue amount of blood in the nervous centres along the back, and especially in those segments of the spinal cord related to the stomach and the muscles concerned in vomiting. This condition of the nervous centres in question is in- duced by the movement of the vessel in, I believe, three ways—ist, through the brain; 2nd, through the ligaments of the spinal cord; 3rd, through the abdominal and pelvic viscera." Chapman believes the concussions communicated to the brain and cord excite their tissue, and cause an unwonted number of exciting impulses to be transmitted from them to the viscera. It is a notable fact, he says, that in many suf- ferers from sea-sickness headache, peculiarly intense, is one of the inost striking symptoms. The increased shaking of the viscera gives ri.se to an abundance of abnormal impressions, which are conveyed to the spinal cord, and influence it in the same manner as the direct concussions do.DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 151 I After further details and arguments on this subject, Chapman proceeds— " The inevitable conclusion from the foregoing exposition is that the only scientific and really effective remed^'^ for sea-sickness must be one which has the power of lessening the amount of blood in the whole of the nervous centres along the back. This can be effectually done by lowering the temperature of the spinal region by the application of ice. The results of 15 experiments in the treatment of sea-sickneas induce me to believe that, as a general rule, liable to few exceptions, the effect of this simple expedient will be the annihilation of all unpleasant symptoms. The ship's motions having induced an abnormal amount of blood in both the spinal and ganglionic centres, there is necessarily a : greater evolution of heat than is usual in health, and hence it is that cold along the whole spinal region is not only tolerable but positively pleasant. Experience will teach those who xise ice along the back that ! there seems almost as if there were a wonderful intelligence in the I nervous centres of the whole spinal region, which denotes, by quickly 1 expressive and unmistakeable feeling, the exact parts where the appli- cation of ice is most desirable, and where it should be omitted." Pull directions are given as to the proper mode of application of the ice-bags, and as to the precautions to be observed. Oppolzeb.—PatJiology and treatment of inflammation of the Sub- peritoneal Areolar Tissue. "Wien. Med. Wochenschr., 13, 1863 ; 14, 1864. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 49. Geeig.—On Insufflation as a remedy in Intussusception. Edin. Med. Journ., Oct., 1864. Greig records well-marked cases of this disorder, 4 of which were treated successfully by the above means, while i, proving fatal, was left to nature. He says the symptoms of an intussusception are unmis- takeable, and may shortly be said to be—the sudden seizure, the obsti- nate vomiting, the paroxysms of pain, the hard tumour in the abdomen, and eJtiefli/ the passage of blood per anum ; all these various symptoms may show themselves in other diseases, but when combined together, and especially when the last-mentioned symptom, the passing of blood per anum, is present, no one can have any difficulty in forming a correct diagnosis. The prognosis is always unfavorable, and although cases of spontaneous recovery are occasionally met with, as the one recorded by Dr. Ilare, this favorable termination is quito rare and exceptional. As to treatment, purgatives in the first place naturally suggest themselves ; but these are worse than useless, rarely remaining on the stomach, and if they do, only stimulating the bowel and aggravating the disease. Warm-water enemata are useful, but can seldom be administered, owing to the very peculiar irritable spasmodic condition in which the rectum usually is. In any case where this spasmodic action is not present, or only to a slight degree, Greig has no doubt warm-water enemata, or, as used in Case 3, warm water and air thrown in by a syringe, would be useful. The ease, however, with whicli air ia thrown into the spas- modically contracted rectum, when it is impossible even to introduce a teaspoonful of warm water, gives this agent a pre-eminence oyer allREPOUT ox PJIACTICAI. SIEDICINE. 153 otliers, and astonishes all who have seen it used. Tiie remedy is ahvays at baud, and its application in so simple as to require no direction; the only necessity being that enougli air be thrown into the bowel to dis- tend it as far up as the neck of the invaginated portion, or, in other words, that the operation bo continued until the child begins to be uneasy and the belly distinctly tympanitic. Amongst other means for relief, cases are on record where the abdomen has been opened for tiie relief of the bowel in intussusception. It is difficult to reduce one by manipulation after death, and Greig has no doubt it would be much more so to do it during life. Meissner.—Heport on recent researches relative io Tapeioorms and Vesicular Worms {Ecliinococci). Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 124, p. 29. Mackat, a. E., M.D.—Naval Medical Contrihitions—Di/sentery. Edin- Med. Journ., Jan., 1864. Under the head of prophylaxis, Mackay lays down the following rules:—(i) To institute a watch over men sleeping in the open air, and take care that any exposed part of the body is immediately covered. (2) To have it established as a rule, that after exercise or heavy drill in the tropics the men should shift into dry clothing. (3)iTo have most strin- gent regulations established with regard to men dressing, or at least put- ting on their trousers, before going into the " head'' at night. (4) That on the Canton river station, ships should be relieved as frequently as pos- sible from river service, and that while stationed there during the hot season a morning and evening dose of quinine should be issued to the ship's companies. (5) That the first and middle watches in the Canton river, and in malarial districts generally, should have an allowance of tea or cocoa issued to them. (6) That a strict surveiDance of bumboats should be established in all localities, but especially in those where dysentery is notoriously endemic. (7) That the men should be warned to report themselves on the first signs of diarrhoea appearing. (8) That salt meat should be entirely excluded from the rations during the hot season. Under the head of treatment, Mackay prescribes perfect rest in the horizontal posture, especially during the more acute stages, local depletion to any tender parts of the abdomen, or to the anus, carefully managed fomentations. His experience is decidedly in favour of the administration of mercury, for he has found, as a rule, that the more speedily the system has been brought under its influence the more rapid and satisfactory has been the cure. He usually gives Calomel, gr. Pulv. Ipecac, gr. j -f Pulv. Opii gr. ^ in pil. 3)!»'s vel, 4tis horis. "When the nervous system is much implicated it will always be found that there is great difficulty iu inducing the specific action of the mercury, and care must be taken not to push its use too far, as its tendencies after a certain time are decidedly hurtful. AAHien tlie disease has lasted so long without amendment (that is to say, without a stop being put to the muco-sanguineous dejections) as to induce the belief that consider- able disorganization of the intestinal mucous membrane has taken jilace. it will be necessary to stop its exhibition, for its tendency is to cause softening and ultimately to lead on to gangrene. It will generally beDIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 153 found tliafc if mercury has been employed regularly for 4 or 5 days with- out showing any sign of action upon the system, a considerable amount of irritability is begotten, the pulse becomes hard and sharp, and the dysenteric symptoms become aggravated. " I have on several occasions seen this dilBculty experienced in procuring mercurialism in cases of dy- sentery in China, and in every such case the disease either proved ex- tromciy urgent or had a fatal termination; -while, on the other hand, both in China and elseM'here, when tlie mei'cury haft speedily acted all the svmptoms have rapidly improved, and the case has proceeded to a favorable termination mthout further difficulty. I have also seen cases where, mercurial frictions having been continued after it has been adnsable to stop the internal administration of mercury and have recourse to other remedies, ptyalism has set in, and with its accession all the dysenteric symptoms have begun at once to improve." Should it not be deemed advisable to proceed with the mercury, much relief may be obtained from powders composed of Bismuthi Trisnitras gr. 6 + Pulv. Ipecac, gr. j + Morph. Muriat. gr. I, Ms vel ter die. These act admirably in allaying the irritability of the intestinal canal, but cause very urgent thirst and great and most irritating parching of the nasal mucous membrane. Acetate of lead he thinks the best astringent, to be used, hke all remedies of this class, only in the later periods of the disease. In flatulent distension of the abdomen, Spiritus Terebinth. Hl^xv—XX + 01. Ricini 5j + -Aq. M. Pip., was found useful. But little fluid should be taken, especially cold. During the whole course of the treatment the diet should be very restricted. A patient recently attacked should never be placed next to one who is recovering. Palm.— Case of Verminous Disease ending fatally.—"Wurtemb. Corr. Bl., 33, 25, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 124, p. 38. A healthy child, 23 months old, was taken ill in consequence of a chill, with moderate fever and loss of appetite. Calomel and santonine were given in small doses, under the use of which numerous round worms {Ascaris lumhricoides) were brought away by vomiting and by stool. The total number so got rid of was 58. On the loth day the belly became distended, hard, and tender ; on the 12th day convulsions set in, and death ensued some hours later. At the autopsy the small intestine was found of a blackish-red colour for an extent of about 4 inches, with a notable amount of vascular injection in the Aaciuity. A large number (38) of whitish, round worms, were projecting through the intestinal wall at this part into the peritoneal ca^'ity. Five of these and i older worm had already completely penetrated into the sac, and were undergoing puti-efaction. The peritoneum in the vicinity was but little inflamed, and presented only traces of dirty grayish exudation. When the intestine was opened it was seen that the posterior third of the worm was still contained in the cavity of the bowel, and that they had perforated the intestinal wall in an oblique and not in a transverse direction, so that the middle third of their bodies was completely covered by the intestinal membranes, and it was not easy to draw them out. After they were removed the intestinal wall had the ap- pearance of a sieve; the canals made by the worms commenced withTIEPOTIT ON PEACTICAI. MEDICINE, 154 a mauifesfc fissure, 2 or .3 lines long, in the mucous membrane, and passed then obliquely througli the coats for a space of 6 to 10 lines. According to the observations of H. E. Richter,the ova of round worms (Ascarides litmbric.) undergo development in water, and produce a com- plete embryo, wliich moves about, but remains for years in its shell, and is not even killed by being completely dried. These eggs (64 millions of vvliich are produced by one female) are conveyed by insects, worms, snails, &c., to salad-plants, fruit, and other articles of food, and thus come to be swallowed, especially by children of the lower classes. This highly probable view has not, however, yet been experimentally proved. SECllETOnT SYSTEM. E. Mahtin.—Hepatic Diseases in the East Indies. Lancet, July 16. Mahtin, J. R.—Treatment of the suppurative stage of Acute Hepatitis. Lancet, August 20, 27. Martin says when so sad a result as abscess forms the actual issue to acute parenchymatous hepatitis, or to acute congestion of the liver, the treatment resolves itself at once into the medical and surgical manage- ment of a most grave consequent and complication ; the first purport- I iug to calm nervous and vascular irritation and to support the failing powers of the constitution, while the second aims at securing the dis- charge of the purulent fluid, whenever it can be done with a prospect of benefiting the sufferer. Whatever be the direction in which the abscess tends to make a way for the discharge of its contents, our care must be to allay constitutional and local irritation by anodynes, by tonics and alteratives (as the mineral acids with taraxacum or mild bitters), a light but nutritious diet, pure air, and avoidance of exertion—rest, in fact. In the desperate circumstance of extravasation into the cavity of the peritoneum opium repeatedly administered offers the only chance of escape from deatli. With a view to determine what can be effected 1 by surgery, a most careful examination of the hepatic region, often I repeated, will reveal, not only the existence of suppuration, but gene- I rally also its site in the liver, as well as its extent. These circura- I stances, viewed in relation to the general condition of the system, are I the necessary preliminaries to action, and the question for decision is | one of the most grave import. Coming to the subject of mechanical | interference, the tendency which can best be aided and relieved by the surgeon is that outwards, through the abdominal parietes; and when the tumidness and fluctuation are discoverable, and the constitu- tional sympathy in the form of general and local irritation is becoming manifest and urgent, the operation by puncture is reasonable, and bids fair to be successful; with or without evidence of adhesion between the two peritoneal surfaces, it ought not to be delayed. When, on the other hand, the abscess is pointing outwards, and is near to the surface, the constitution being calm and undisturbed, the system not being emaciated or greatly enfeebled, we can afford, all things proceeding kindly, to wait upon nature for the discharge of the purulent matter.SECUETOKY SYSTEM. 155 But when the patient is suffering from a high irritative fever, the result of inward and hidden suppuration, more or less extensive, and when emaciation, night-sweats, and exhaustion, are sure to follow, what is to he clone to save life ? If we are to rely on the authority of sys- tematic writers, or even on that of elaborately recorded statistics, we shall do nothing; yet the sufferer is sinking daily, and such course of inaction is neither satisfactory nor just. To wait upon nature, as we call it, is here to wait for death. Frericbs, even on his European ex- perience, cautious us against delay in so critical a position. " We must not wait for the supervention of fluctuation, or for the cederaatous in- filtration of the abdominal walls ; because these signs, especially in the intercostal spaces, are sometimes late in making their appearance; in such cases the prominences of the false ribs and the obliteration of their intercostal spaces suffice to justify operation." .This_ distin- guished authority adds that " when the abscess takes a direction out- wards we ought not to delay in making an artificial opening. In most cases, when fluctuation can be detected, the abscess has already attained a considerable size; and the longer its evacuation is delayed the greater are the dangers of its bursting into the abdominal cavity, of an extensive destruction of the liver, and of the formation of a dense, rigid, not easily cicatrized cyst." Again, " care must be taken not to lose time in countei'acting the exhaustion which at this period is apt to supervene in an imminent degree." Statistics will not solve our difficulties, for none of them have as yet counted in how many instances surgical aid had come too early, in how many cases when too late, nor yet in how many cases was the operation believed, and by the result judged, to have been performed just at the right time. Without such important and necessary information the numerical system can in the case before us yield no other than an unsafe guide to surgical action. To count the few persons who may come home from India suffering from suppuration of the liver consequent on hepatitis, and who have trocar marks on their flanks, is to trifle with an important subject. What we desire to know is, how many per cent, died in India, or on the voyage home, from the neglect or from the fear of the trocar; how many per cent, might have been saved by an earlier and more judicious recourse to operation. No one can have seen much of hepatic disease, as it prevails in the East, without a very painful feeling that he has witnessed the loss of many a life whicli might, perhaps, have been saved had the mode of saving it been made more manifest in his time; and this reflection will not be lightened if the surgeon apprehend, when too late, that he had yielded too easy an assent to the doctrines of the day. Owing mainly to statements and facts adduced by Drs. Cameron, Tem- pleton, and Crerer, the question of the treatment appropriate to the ordinary stages and conditions of suppurated liver has to be taken up anew, and from a more definite and precise point of departure, with a view to a more just management by surgical relief An accurate dia- gnosis being of the last importance on general grounds, and a necessary preliminary to success in any surgical action, the following suggestious are offered as helps towards a right conclusion :—(i) The limit of the liver being accurately ascertained by percussion in the state of expira- iHKPOET ON PRACTICAL MKDICINE. iuG tion, on a full breatli being taken the liver will be carried downwards into the abdomen if its npper and anterior surlacc be not adherent to the parictes. (2) If it is adherent, unless the adhesions be long, it will remain where it was at first, which can easily be ascertained by percussion. (3) Before proceeding to ascertain the existence of a 8j)ot most suitable for puncture by the exploring trocar, a careful general examination and comparison sliould be made of the two hypochondria, standing at the foot of the bed. There Avill then, in general, be found a more or less uniform bulging, corresponding to the region of the con- tour of the liver. (4) If superficial oedema be found, the abscess may usually be concluded to be under it, or near at hand. (5) Examine carefully for the slightest degree of intercostal fulness with tenderness, desiring the patient to breathe deeply while the finger is pressed gently along tlie spot indicated. If the breath be caught under the finger on a deep inspiration that (says Dr. Cameron) is the spot for puncture. (6) In the absence of local fulness, the place where the inspiration is most impeded must be our guide, having due regard to anatomical rela- tions. Whenever the indications are clear as to the presence of sup- puration, and as to the site of the abscess, the constitution meanwhile evincing sympathy even approaching to irritative fever and general distress, the sooner the abscess is discharged the better for the safety of the patient; for the volume of purulent matter is rapidly increasing, with extensive destruction of liver, involving the danger of bursting in- wards, along with a surely increasing hectic and emaciation. Dr. Cameron has shown that under such unfavorable circumstances both exploration and puncture for the discovery and evacuation of the abscess are more safe and efficacious than had before been known or believed. He states as follows:—" (i) I have repeatedly plunged a trocar into an enlarged liver without finding an abscess, and never had the slightest ill result beyond a little local pain, yielding readily to opium, or to a few leeches applied round the puncture. (2) I have also found such puncture followed by gradual absorption and disap- pearance of the enlargement. (3) In men who died with abscesses which I failed to reach I have found it extremely diflicult to detect the marks of such unsuccessful explorations, and this, too, when there had not been any adhesions; so that the danger said to attend upon such an operation has been diagnosed, I believe, rather from analogy than from any consequent mortality. (4) A trocar with canula of moderate size I consider preferable to either scalpel or lancet for opening the abscess. The scalpel may be used when the skin is thick, to divide the integument, and thus to allow the trocar to enter with gentle force. (5) The pus will flow readily through the wound with a little help from a probe and from the aid of gravitation; and Avhen the abscess seems well emptied the canula should be carefully fastened in, by twine passed through perforations in its rim, and also by a broad piece of adhesive plaster having an opening in its centre. (6) A large warm poultice should be laid over the side, and the patient placed on it, having a pad or pillow so placed as to prevent pressure on the canula. The same course should be adopted when it proves difficult or impos- sible, from the size and deep-seated nature of the abscess, to replace aSECRETOKY SYSTEM. 157 canula that has slipped out. (7) A strong close of morphia should be given immediately after the operation, which is generally attended with great relief and followed by refreshing sleep. (8) The poultice should be changed twice or oftener in the twenty-four hours; and at his morning visit the surgeon should see to the opening, and aid the dis- charge by very gentle general pressure over the side, avoiding manual interference. (9) About the third day the canula may be replaced by a tent-sponge, or by lint dipped in oil, which should be changed daily. (10) A liberal diet, with porter and wine, should be supplied; and, Avhere possible, the food should be such as the patient may prefer and relish. (11) All matters going on well, the discharge will gradually lessen, while the patient will regain strength, the probe showing that the depth of the cavity is decreasing, while tumidness of the side Avill disappear. Presently a clear mucous, gleety-looking fluid replaces the pus, and finally the wound closes. (12) If, on the other hand, the case tends badly, either from the existence of a plurality of abscesses, the great size of the one opened, or an absence of power in the con- stitution to repair the damage, it is denoted by continuance of hectic and by wasting discharge. Martin refers to some remarkable experi- ence published by Cameron and Templeton, and corroborates their statements by the good results which accrued from the same treatment in a case recently under his own care. Oppolzee.—On Syphilis of ilie Liver. Wien. Med. Halle, 4, 1863, Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 124, p. 179. Syphilitic disease of the liver shows itself—(i) as simple perihepatitis ; (2) as interstitial; (3) as gummatous hepatitis; (4) as colloid or amyloid degeneration of the liver. All these forms may either exist separately or, as more frequently happens, they may be variously asso- ciated together. Perihepatitis especially occurs but very rarely alone, but is generally complicated with interstitial inflammation. So also the gummatous form is apt to be complicated with amyloid or bacony de- generation of the liver. In perihepatitis we usually find very hard callous thickenings of the capsule of the liver, which on the one side almost constantly lead to adhesions with the adjacent organs, especially with the diaphragm, more rarely with the colon and stomach; and on the other traverse the pai-enchyma of the liver itself, especially its convex surface, and give it an irregular-lobed shape. If they are incised a tendinous, vascular, fibrous tissue is met with, which extends to a greater or less depth from the thickened capsule into the glandular parenchyma, which is mostly atrophied. One lobe may be thus affected, or the whole organ. In the gummatous form we find in a a normal or bacony liver, or in the above-described cicatricial tissue, masses of deposit varying from the size of a bean to that of a walnut, consisting of a whitish or yellowish cheesy substance. These masses sometimes are converted into a chalky pap or into calcareous concretions. Their substance is for the most part traversed by fibrous bands, but they are sometimes met with in the midst of normal parenchyma. The large divisions of the portal vein, of tlie hepatic artery aud duct usually, but not alvvavs, are uninvolved. On the degree in which they are affected depends the158 HEPOKT on PttACl'ICAL MEDICINE. occurrence of secondaiy diseases, as ascites, icterus, &c. The parencliyma remaining between tlie cicatricial or the gununatous deposits may be normal, or fattily degenerated, or hypertropliied, or in a state of bacony transformation. The ^vhole volume of tiie liver is usually somewiiat en- larged in simple perihepatitis, but often shrinks up very much when the interstitial tissue becomes aflected ; it is also mostly enlarged when gum- matous masses are present, though shriniiing subsequently occurs from wasting of the normal parencliyma; enlargement is constant and ex- cessive only when the syphilitic liver is at the same time in a state of bacony degeneration. The disease in question possesses no charac- teristic or even commonly existing symptom ; the most careful examina- tion of the existing condition will not ensure accuracy of diagnosis. Feelings of weight, pain, and pressure in the hepatic region, which are usually complained of by patients, occur also more or less in all diseases of the liver. Icterus is not constant, and when it does occur has nothing distinctive. Ascites and splenic enlargement are also of small value in diagnosis, as they are almost constant accompaniments of granular liver. The presence of syphilitic cicatrices or knotty tumours in the liver is a material aid to diagnosis, but they may lie out of the reach of palpation, as under the ribs or on the inferior surface of the liver, or the disten- sion of the abdomen by fluid may make accurate examination of the liver impossible. The diseases with which experience shows syphilitic affections of the liver are most likely to be confounded are cirrhosis and cancer. The granular form of syphilitic liver may easily be mistaken for cancer. General cachexia exists in both case.s, and even the form of the liver itself scarcely presents any notable difference. The age of the patient can rarely guide us; for though carcinoma is most frequent in advanced age, yet it is sometimes present before the thirtieth year. On these accounts an exact history of the disorder, conjoined with the most thorough examination, is indispensable. If there is the least suspicion of syphilis the organs where the virus is prone to localize itself must be carefully inspected; we must seek for cicatrices in the pharynx, en- largement of the lymphatic glands, and of the bones, &c. It is difficult to ascertain accurately to what stage of syphilitic infection the disease of the liver appertains. Oppolzer has seen cases, like those recorded by Dittrich and Gubler, which belonged to the so-called secondary period, but the majority unquestionably belong to the tertiary. The disease now described in the liver is also a pretty frequent accompani- ment of hereditary syphilis. The prognosis is not so absolutely un- favorable as it has been rejn-esented by many authors ; we find, bow- ever, sometimes indications of hepatic syphilis in the dead body when the patients have perished from other diseases, and when the morbid condition of the liver has declared itself by no grave symptom. In general, the prognosis is more favorable so long as the liver is stiU in the stage of hypertrophy than when atrophy has commenced. Cachexia, dropsy, protracted diarrhoea, and renal degeneration of amyloid character, are of unfavorable iinjiort. As regards the treatment of syphilitic inflammation of the liver, Oppolzer does not agree with authors, as Niemeyer, who describes all measures as quite powerk - Though it is true that cicatrices in the liver cannot be removed, it maySECRETOTIY SYSTEM. 169 also be maintained that cases of syphilitic inflammation, especially of the gummatous form, as long as the organ is enlarged, may be benefited and even cured by rational treatment. Oppolzer recommends iodide of potassium, wliile Leudet prefers mercury. Other symptomatic treat- ment may also be employed, as saline aperients, mineral waters and baths in the hypertrophic form, in the atrophic tonics, as iodide of iron, and a generous diet. Gbaingee Stewakt, T., M.D.—Brit, and Por. Med.-Chir. Rev., Oct., 1864. Eecords a case of syphilitic affection of the liver. Stewart remarks, " It is evident that the waxy degeneration of the liver in "this case waa very different from the form of that degeneration usually met with in two respects, viz., first, that in the bulk of the organ, instead of affecting the cells, it affected the vessels ; and, secondly, that groups of nodules in in- dividual parts had become completely degenerated, every cell presenting an exquisite specimen of the degeneration, and the masses scattered like cancer throughout the whole substance, presenting an appearance exactly like beeswax. The liver was about the natural size, it contained a number of nodules scattered throughout its substance, and on its sur- face a number of cicatrices. Stewart believes that the cicatrices were results of transformation of the waxy nodules, for there was no cicatrix without a corresponding waxy mass, and there were many masses with- out a cicatrix; moreover, the depth of a cicatrix bore a definite relation to the condition of the masses. The series of changes he believes to have been the following :—(i) Extreme waxy or amyloid degeneration of certain districts or groups of lobules in the liver. (2) A develop- ment of connective tissue in these masses, gradually causing atrophy of the degenerated gland-cells, and leading to the formation of cicatrices. (3) The cicatrized condition—bands of fibrous tissue radiating from a dense centre into the surrounding tissue, and enclosing within the remains of the broken-down cells. Stewart does not, of course, deny that syphilitic cicatrices may arise from gummy or simple inflammations, as has been described, but he thinks that the above instance proves that they may be formed in another and altogether different way. Geehaedt.—Direct treatment of Icterus Catarrhalis. Wiirzh. Med. Ztschr., 4, p. 312, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 187. Gerhardt states that he has succeeded in two cases in forcing out the plug of mucus obstructing the orifice of the common duct, and so evacuating the accumulated contents of the gall-bladder. The occurrence of this is proved by the bilious coloration of the fteces, which appears soon after the manipulation has been successfully practised. He directs the practitioner to ascertain by percussion the limits of the distended gall-bladder, which is then to be compressed carefully by the pngers steadily pushed backwards. The organ may be distinctly felt to collapse, and when this has occurred its dulness has disap- oeared.REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINK. yiORCir, 0.—Cases of EchhiococcHu in the Liver, llosp. Ti/]., j;, j8. 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 50. Storcli relates 6 oascH, 2 of wliom were males and 4 females. The first 2 cases died appai-cnlly of other disorders; the third had ou Jan. 7, marked hydatid li-emitus iu a small tumour projecting from under the right ribs ; but on March 19, and subsequently, the fremitus was uo longer to be detected, although the tumour increased in size. In the fourth case, a female, a;t. 64, the tumour burst into the peritoneal cavity, and caused fatal peritonitis. In the fifth case, a!t. 31, male, the tumour made its way through the diaphragm, and large quantities of hydatids were discharged through the right lung. This continued for .3 or 4 weeks, and by the middle of September he was convalescent. In the last case the patient, a female, a;t. 37, died of peritonitis after the operation of paracentesis abdominis. The abdomen had been greatly distended by a very lai-ge cyst attached to the upper part of the spleen, which contained a turbid greenish-yellow fluid, like that which had been drawn off iu the operation, and some loose hydatids. The liver contained numerous large cysts, filled with a yellowish turbid fluid, iu which floated membranous flocculi. Haelet, Q-., M.D.—Lectures on the Urine and Diseases of the Urinary Organs. On Uro-hcematiji, and the ahnormal pigments met loith in tvhite, yellow, green, hhie, and black Urine—their clinical signi- ficance and treatment. Med. Tim. and Gaz., Sept. 10, Oct. 29, Nov. 26, 1864. The colour of the urine varies greatly in disease. It may be per- fectly white, yellow, brown, red, black, green, or blue, and each of these tints, in the absence of ingesta capable of accidentally producing them, invariably indicates the existence of grave disease. Normally coloured urine does not, however, exclude the possibility of disease, for the colour of the freshly passed urine is uo absolute criterion either of the quantity or the kind of colouring matter it contains. The abnormal, like the normal pigments, are often combined with some of the other urinary ingredients in the form of colourless compounds, and it is not until the compound is decomposed, and the pigment set free, that we can take cognizance either of its quantity or its quaUty. For example, here are three urines—ist, a pale, almost colourless urine,from a healthy iufant, £et. i8 months; 2nd, an equally pale, almost colourless urine, from a girl, s&i. 19, suffering from chlorofciis ; 3rd, a dark straw-coloured, but perfectly transparent urine, from a healthy man, £et. 33. All have the same sp. gr., 1018. To each of them add a quarter of their bulk 0 strong nitric acid, and bring them to the boiling-point. The infant's pale urine is scarcely altered, the man's dark urine is only slightljT deepened in tint, whereas the almost colourless uriue of the elilorotic girl has assumed an intensely red hue. "What is the cause of this dif- ference ? The infant is in the bloom of health ; there is no waste of ^ blood-corpuscles in it; all the blood-discs it possesses are employed in the development of its frame. The man has arrived at maturity ; he is I still iu the prime of life and in the enjoyment of perfect health; inj blood-corpuscles are not wasted, but mcre'ly consumed in the wear and #161 SECUETOUY SYSTEM. tear of everyday life. The youug woman, ou the other baud, is suffer- ing from chlorosis; she has a pale lip and a blanched cheek ; her cor- puscles are being too rapidly consumed ; her life's blood is oozing away by the kidneys, and there is, it appears, an excess of uro-hsematin in her urine. Take, again, these two urines, so different in appearance. They are from youug men about the same age (34 years). The one urine is perfectly'colourless, Uke water; the patient suffers apparently from excessive spinal irritation; the other is of a deep-red colour, case of hteinaturia from disease of the kidney. On adding strong hydrochloric acid to the colourless urine it rapidly assumes a port-wine tint, whereas the same amount of acid added to the red urine, instead of heightening, actually destroys the colour it already possesses. And why ? Simply because the pale urine contains an excess of combined uro-haematin, which is liberated by the acid ; whereas the red urine contains merely a number of free blood-corpuscles; and as the colouring matter in them is insignificant in quantity when compared with the amount of uro-haematin in the other, no sooner are their cell-walls destroyed, and the contained haemato-globulin set free and coagulated, than the red colour disappears. Now, which of these two classes of urine denotes the most danger ? Assuredly not that containing the free blood-cells. A very small quantity of blood will sometimes colour a great deal of urine; whereas an immense destruction of blood-cor- puscles may take place in the body, and their debris be so eliminated as to be invisible to the eye until the application of an acid sets it free. In fact, experience has shown me that the normally coloured urine of disease is a most treacherous guide to go by. It often lulls the inex- perienced into the belief that there is nothing materially wrong, when a grave lesion is making rapid strides towards a fatal termination. Harley cites a case where the patient was said to suffer from hysteria, while examination of her urine showed that she was affected as above described. In some of those cases of obscure disease the excess of uro-hffimatin in the urine is so great that often it has been set free by an acid and taken up with ether ; the ether, after standing, solidifies into a red-currant-jelly-like mass, and may actually in some cases be cut with a knife. Sometimes in disease a great part of the uro-hsematin exists in the urine in a free state, and in that case the urine is red in colour before any acid is added. If it contains a deposit the lu'ine may or may not be high coloured. Another fact, which is of great clinical importance, is that the uro-haematin is not always in the same state of oxidation, and, like indigo, its amount depends on the amount of oxygen it contains. So that it may be pale yellow at one time, red at another, and brown at a third. In consequence of this, different acids act upon the urine differently. In one case we may find that the addition of nitric, sulphuric, or hydrochloric acid gives rise to exactly the same results ; whereas in another case hydrochloric acid may turn '':he urine red, while nitric acid only causes it to become yellow. In a liird case sulphuric acid may develop the colour of the uro-hfematin tter than either of the others. An excessive excretion of uro-hismatin not limited to cases such as we have been describing. It occurs to ome extent in several diseases, especially those in which there is an 11162 UEPOllT ON I'llACTICAIj MEDICINE. excessive tissue metaniorpliosis, iind consequent too rapid blood con- sumption. Hence we occasionally meet with it in low levers, in diph- theria, in pneumonia and some other inflammatory affections, in lesiona of tlie nervous system, during an attack of gout, after a fit of ague, and during convalescence from nearly all grave diseases. It is, however, in chlorosis (either in tlie male or female), and tlie many unnameable obscui-e afl'ections of that class, where it becomes a dangerous symptom. In fact, it always indicates the existence of a past or present mischief, meriting the closest attention of tlie physician, and where we cannot remove the cause we must at least attempt to check the effects of the symptom, viz., to restore to the blood as much as possible of the mate- rial which is being drained from it. Harley recommends the various syrups of the phosphate of iron as the best remedies, or, in cases where the drain is very great, gr. j—iss doses of zinc. In some cases of dis- ease the excretion of uro-haematiu by the kidneys appears to be dimi- nished, but this is only when the system has been so drained that there is little more to come away. With regard to blue, green, brown, and black urine, or, more exactly, urines which assume these colours a certain time after they have been voided, Harley asserts that these several pigments are nothing more than grades of oxidation of a white radical. With regard to phosphoric acid, Harley states that in inflammatory diseases of the nervous system, notwithstanding the low diet on which the patient may be placed, there is an actual increase in the amount of phosphoric acid excreted. In a patient suffering from paralysis, the result of injury to the head, an enormous excess of phosphates was found in the urine. A few days after admission the patient eliminated no less than i35'6o9 grains of phosphoric acid in 24 hours, and this, too, ftt a time when he was taking very httle food^ and that little poor in phosphates. Gradually, as the patient recovered from the effects of the injury, the phosphoric acid daily diminished, till it actually fell below the normal standard, notwithstanding that his food was more abundant and richer in phosphates. Harley speaks very highly of the good effect of administering phosphoric acid in degenerative disease of the nervous centres, and superphosphate of lime in rickets. Under the head of oxaluria, Harley remarks that skill and judgment are required in the treatment. A remedy that is suitable for one patient may be qiiite inappropriate for another; and even in the same patient, life being an ever-fluctuating quantity, a remedy which was beneficial at one time may prove prejudicial at another. For example, I have seen cases of oxaluria which had resisted all the usual routine of mineral acid tonics at once entirely disappear when the patient was put on the acid phosphate of soda, and vice versa. With regard to drinks, carbonated alkalies must be refrained from as they are transformed into oxalates in the body. It is important that the'water used should contain but little lime, for if this be not the case any oxaUc acid pre- sent will combine with the lime, and thus form one of the most insoluble of salts. Oxalate of lime and prosphatic calculi are the two mo.st common forms of stone met with in districts where the water is impregnated with large quantities of lime, and it is astonishing how long it some-163 SECUETOUY SYSTEM. times takes to arrest these deposits in persons habitually accustomed to the use of sucli waters. Harlev, J., M.D.—Oii the endemic Hcemaiuria of the Oape of Good Bope. Proc. of Med. and Chir. Soc.,' vol. 4, 1864, p. 28,5. In a patient under the author's care, the symptoms were the following:— After micturition a little blood, never exceeding a teaspoonful or some dark " veins," appeared with the last half ounce of urine. The urine itself was never bloody. Sometimes "the veins" would block up the urethra, and cause obstruction for a few minutes. He had an occa- sional twinge of smart pain in the loins. He said great numbers of people of both sexes were affected in precisely the same way in certain parts of the Cape. Inquiries made by Dr. Harley corroborated the patient's statements. In the various examples of urine sent to him by his patient he invariably detected the eggs of an entozoon, and in one specimen he had the good fortune to discover the perfect embryo after its escape from the egg-shell, under the form of a minute ciliated animalcule. From its anatomical chai-acters and developmental changes he was led to refer the parasite to the trematode class of worms, and to the family Distomum. The animal which it seemed most nearly to resemble in the outward form of the eggs, as well as in the symptoms of the disease it produces, was the Distomwn hcsmatobium. This para- site, according to Bilharz and Griesmyk, was very common in Egypt, and inhabited aU parts of the urinary apparatus. There were, however, notable differences between this animal and the one he had described, and which he proposed to term D. Capense. In the urine of two young men who had suffered from the endemic hfematuria, but con- sidered themselves to be now free from it, Dr. Harley was able to detect the characteristic eggs of the parasite in question. Having thus demon- strated the existence of the same parasite in three individuals suffering or having suffered from the htematuria endemic in some parts of the Cape, he concluded that the animal was the constant cause of the disease. AVade.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., July 30. In many cases of renal dropsy has found that the use of ordinary vegetable diuretics in large quantities produces diuresis when smaller doses fail. He gives for example sometimes a quart of the compound decoction of broom. He has also found that iodide of potassium exer- cises a most marked influence upon the rather rare cases of albuminuria which have a syphilitic origin. The same drug he has recently employed with marked results in a case of painful enlarged and nodulated Hver, in a young girl who presented all Mr. Hutchinson's indications of con- genital syphilis. [fASSALL, A. II.—Lancet, Dec. 17. % Publishes some analyses of the .blood and urine in an instance of ^ granular degeneration, and in one of fatty degeneration of the kidney. 'i.n the first the amount of urine was considerably in excess of the normal amount, but the sp. gr. was low and the urea, urid acid, phos- i)horic acid, sulphuric acid, and chlorine, were all more or less below the164 IIEPOIIT ON X'EACTICAL MKDICINE. healtliy averagea. Tlie blood was deficient iu fibrine, blood-corpuscles, and albumen, and contained an excess of water. In the second case these changes iu the blood were still more advanced. The mean daily loss of dried albumen was found to be 310-8 grains, equal to 10 oz. of blood. The vapour bath is, he considers, preferable to diuretics and purgatives for the removal of the dropsy. KussMAUL.—Con tributions to the anatomy and pathology of the Urinary Organs. Wurzb. Med. Ztschr., 4, p. 24, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb,, vol. 123, p. 46. (I) Tuberculosis appears iu this situation either as an accompaniment of the acute, miliary, or chronic disease; or it is the primary disease itself; or it is propagated by extension from the male sexual organs, almost always from the seminal ducts or the prostate, to the urinary bladder and urethra. When the urinary organs are affected secondarily to the male sexual, the disease extends gradually upwards; when the kidneys are first attacked it descends towards the bladder. In a case related, however, the left kidney and urinary bladder appeared to have been afiected about the same time and primarily, while the intervening ureter was not involved till a later period. Tuberculosis of the genital and urinary organs^is very rare in. females ; when the latter are affected the disease, as a rule, is primary, not secondary, to tuberculosis of the genitals. For the most part, one kidney alone is degenerated, while the other is quite or nearly free, which accounts for the rarity of uraemia in tuberculosis. The diseased kidney is generally larger, but may be of the normal size, or even smaller; much depending on whether the ureter is still pervious or not. Tuberculosis of the urinary organs is a very rare disease, occurring scarcely in i of 100 tuberculous subjects, or in I out of 1000 persons dead of various diseases. It is rare before the loth and after the 60th year. The diagnosis must be made from the concurrence of the following phenomena and circumstances:—(i) The patients suffer from progressive emaciation, generally resulting from hectic fever, the loss of blood, or drain of pus by the urine, night- sweats, gastric derangements, and ultimately diarrhoea. (2) There are symptoms of chronic inflammation and ulceration of the urinary paS' sages; those immediately resulting are pains of the most different kind in the region of the bladder and the loins, increased on pressure and in micturition; strangury, incontinence of urine; the presence of pus and blood in the urine, of the epithelium of the urinary passages, and sometimes of casts ; the discoveiy of elastic fibres, granular detritus, and flakes of dead areolar tissue in the urine, or of larger fragments 0 cheesy matter, consisting of the so-named tubercle-corpuscles, granular detritus, and elastic fibres ; more remote consequences of the inflam- mation and ulceration are diminution of the quantity of urine, the for- mation of a perceptible renal tumour. (3) Other causes which are capable of inducing similar disease of the urinary passages are to be excluded. In this respect we must note the absence of gravel, calcuh, and echinococci iu the urine, the absence of attacks of renal colic, the absence of the elements of villous cancer and of the simple villous tumour of the bladder, absence of stricture and of enlargement ofSECUETOUY SYSTEM. 165 third lobe of the prostate. (4) We must note whether there is au hereditary tendency to tuberculosis, or whether there is clinical evidence of the presence of tuberculosis in other organs, especially in the epi- dydimis or in the lungs. Tuberculosis of the urinary organs usually destroys life in from i to 3 years. (II) A case is related of encepha- loid of the left kidney in a boy set. 3^. (Ill) A case of syphilitic bacony degeneration of liver and spleen, with dilatation of both kidneys, especially the right, which contained a quantity of greenish pus. (IV) A case of morbus Brightii, which lasted probably nearly 11 years, and which then ended fatally in consequence of an operation on the rectum. (T) A case of jaundice in which the urine contained blood-globules, numerous mucous corpuscles, some of them coloured by bile-pigment, round larger cells containing numerous nuclear corpuscles, and still larger cells containing with nuclei corpuscles exactly resembling the free mucous. In many cells the colouring matter was in a crystal- line form, the crystals forming rods or aciculfe, sometimes arranged in radiating groups. MiTNK, Ph.—0)1 TTrcemia. Berlin Med. Wochenschr., i, 11, 1864. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 186. ; Munk produced uraemia in dogs and rabbits by extirpating the ' kidneys, tying the renal arteries or the ureters. The first acted most rapidly, the last the most slowly. Vomiting occurred early, the re- jected matter being watery and highly acid, and containing much urea, but scarcely a trace of Aramon. Carb. The more copious was the vomiting the later were the head symptoms in making their appearance. Diarrhoea of the same character never occurred in dogs, but constantly in rabbits. These evacuations consequently may be regarded as vicarious of the renal. The pulse became slower, full and hard, the respiration notably more frequent. On dissection the arterial vessels were always found hypersemic up to the smallest divisions, the brain evidently oedematous, the convolutions flattened, especially where there had existed deep coma. Extravasations of blood were sometimes discovered, but never arachnitis. The amount of urea and creatin in the blood and muscles was always increased. Injections of urea and carbonate of ammonia in animals deprived of their kidneys never produced pheno- mena resembling the uraemic, but only temporary irritation. Other salts acted quite in the same way. Injection of water alone into the vessels after the ureters had been tied produced no urremia. Injection of water or of whipped blood (defibrinized) into the vessels of dogs who had their ureters and one jugular vein tied rapidly induced coma and very various kinds of convulsion. If there was much loss of blood Dr copious vomiting in the first few hours after the injection the ursemic phenomena were much less severe. Death ensued in 12 to 24 hours, ind dissection showed anaemia and oedema of the brain and flattening of ':he convolutions, in one case only slight extravasation. If, on the con- l ary, after ligature of the ureters both carotids were tied, vomiting iisued, but there was an absence of sopor and convulsions ; in the last lours of life the frequency of the respiratory movements became •normously increased, while that of the pulse was materially diminished.UEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 166 On diaaection the anterior and middle part of the brain was found anasmic; the medulla oblongata, on the contrary, very much congested. The result of these experiments tends to show that when the blood is diluted up to a certain point tension of the aortic system beyond a certain degree determines the occurrence of the so-called ur.Tmic phenomena, and that this may be prevented by lessening the supply of blood to the cerebrum and mesocephale, though the medulla oblongata then is severely affected. The chief object of treatment in urajmia is consequently to lessen the watery constituent of the blood as much aa possible. JoHNSOK, Gr.—Lancst, Jan. i6. Eemarks, with regard to the copious diuresis which occurs spon- taneously during convalescence from acute renal dropsy, as follows:— " During the acute stage of the renal disease the constituents of the urine, both solids and liquids, have accumulated in the blood, and have thence been effused into the areolar tissue and into the serous cavities. Now, urea itself is a most powerful diuretic, and no sooner is the in- flammatory congestion of the kidney removed, and the freedom of the renal circulation restored, than the urea exerts its natural diuretic action on the kidney. The copious diuresis thus induced speedily re- moves the accumulated urinary solids and liquids from the blood, the areolar tissue, and the serous cavities in which they had been effused, and so the dropsy is cured. This abundant flow of urine occurs without aid from diuretics or drugs of any kind. I have seen it occur when bread pills alone were given as aplaceho." SocQTTET and Chatin-.—Gaz. Med. de Lyons, Oct. and Nov., 1862. Brit, and Tor. Med.-Chir. Eev., Jan., "1864. Eeeommend the simultaneous employment of perchloride of iron and ergot of rye in albuminuria. The beneficial action of the iron was much accelerated by the ergot. The cases observed were some men of bad constitution, weakened by former unfavorable hygienic conditions, such as insufiicient food and dwelling in damp and badly ventilated localities. The dropsy in all the cases at first confined to the face had successively attacked the limbs and the peritoneum. The urine was pale and inodorous, and contained large quantities of albumen, and in one case microscopic examination revealed the presence of renal epithelium. Dickinson, "W. H., M.D. Cantab.—On the treatment of Albtiminuria in Children. Proc. of Med. and Chir. Soc, vol. 4, p. 355. The granular kidney appears to be unknown in childhood. The only form of disease which produces albuminuria at this period of life is that which produces enlargement of the kidney, and gives it a smooth, mot- tled exterior. This is, in fact, a renal catarrh. The tubes become ob- structed by an excess of their own epithelial growth, and hence arise all the evils of the disease. If only there is a free escape for the contents of the tubes the vascularity of the gland will be relieved by secretion, and the disorder will soon be at an end. The principle of treatment must be tp send as much water as possible through the organ. This fluid laSECUETOUY SYSTEM. 167 devoid of irritating properties, and probably passes through the gland rather by filtration tiian by true secretion. "With these views the patients were restricted to a fluid diet. They took from two to four pints of distilled water daily, and small doses of the infusion of digi- talis. AVlien the active symptoms had subsided iron was given. Out of 26 cases treated in this way 22 recovered completely, 3 were lost sight of while improving, i case did badly, and eventually died under other treatment. Many of tlie cases were of great severity. These results appear better than those aiforded by other methods. Among the in-patients at the Children's Hospital otherwise treated 11 died out of .39, and of 69 cases treated by Dr. Millar in dispensary practice 8 died. It was found, on an average, that the little patients were restored to apparent health in 30 days, while 15 days more were needed to get rid of the last traces of albumen. The use of the water did not seem in any case to increase the dropsy, but the contrary. It was usual, however, when the swelling was great, to let the digitalis set up a certain amount of diuresis before ordering the full quantity. The subsequent use of iron was believed to correct the effects of the disease, without influencing the disease itself. On the occurrence of secondary disorders, such as convulsions^or acute inflammatory attacks, it was argued that the treatment of the renal mischief should be sedu- lously persisted in, with such additions as might be called for. The anaemic state of the brain in uraemic convulsions, and their frequent occurrence after the exhaustion of diarrhoea or vomiting, were urged as reasons for abstaining from depressing remedies. A case was cited in which, under these circumstances, small doses of opium had been used successfully. Ollitier, Lancereaux, Danjot.— On Alhminnria in cases of Lead Poisoning. Arch. Gen., Nov., Dec, 1863 ; April, 1864. L'Union, 150, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, p. 43. Ollivier has found in a series of cases occurring among workers in lead, who were neither addicted to drinking nor cachectic, that albumen was present in the urine. The albuminuria was eitlier merely tem- porary, ceasing by tlie tenth day, oi* it continued up to and after the . patient's dismissal from the hospital. Lead was discovered several times in the urine. Experiments performed on animals, in which acute poisoning was produced, showed also the presence of lead and albumen in the urine, and besides the alterations peculiar to morbus Brightii, together with deposits of lead in the kidneys. The duration of the unhealthy occupation and the kind of the antecedent toxic plienoraena did not appear to have any influence on the production of albuminuria ; on the contrary, individual peculiarities seemed to be of most import- ance. Ollivier regards the deposition of lead in the kidney as the essential cause of the renal degeneration, and this, again, as the cause of the albuminuria. AVhen the latter is temporary the lead probably only passes through the kidney. He suggests that albuminuria "is an attendant symptom on all poisonings, and is an expression of the ex- cretion of the poison through the kidneys. Lancereaux has recorded 4 cases in which albuminuria existed during life, and nephritis wasHEPORT on PllACTICAL MEDICINE. 168 found after death. Three of them were chronic, i comparatively recent. The alterations were such as are found in cases of granular kidney. Lancereaux thinks that these changes occur only in cachectic perfsons; they are, however, not peculiar to lead poisoning, since he has found them also in individuals suffering from the effects of mercury and sul- phuric acid, and in one syphilitic subject who had taken Pot. lod. for a longtime. Danjoy's experience is confirmative of the above statements, and he adds that he has also met in such cases with cerebral affections and amaurosis. He considers the latter to result from the chronic nephritis which is produced by the lead. This view is supported by the circumstance that in several cases the amaurosis and the cerebral (usually epileptic) symptoms appeared and ceased coincidently with the invasion and cessation of the albuminuria. Smith, E.—On the diet in Diabetes. Lancet, Feb. 6, 1864. Smith lays down the following directions:—(i) Fluids.—To be limited by degrees daily, until they shall not exceed 5^ lbs. in both fluid and solid food. Of this quantity 2 to 3 pints should consist of new or skimmed milk, and i pint or less of tea. Tea is very bene- ficial, since it tends to increase both the respiratory and the cutaneous actions. In the cold season, and at night, fluids should always be given hot. Of all the alcohols brandy is the best, and may be given with water only, or added to milk, or beat up with egg and milk, and given several times daily. No fluid should be given in greater quan- tity than half a pint at a time, and when milk is reduced in volume by cooking the daily quantity of fluid must be made up by an additional supply of the same or other fluid. (2) Solids.—Dr. Prout's combina- tion of eggs and milk with sharps (the inner husk of wheat) substituted for bran is excellent. Four ounces of sharps, and as much of peas or lentils, may be made into bread or pudding, with milk, or into omelettes with eggs and herbs, and given when starchy food cannot be altogether intermitted. These, with cheese, gluten bread, meat fat, and oils, may be given as largely as they can be digested. The free use of salad oil should be urged, whether in the cooking of fish or flesh, or in the use of water-cress as a salad, or drunk alone, so that several ounces may, if possible, be consumed daily; but as there are in all persons preferences and dislikes in reference to particular fats, that kind should be allowed which is most agreeable. Four ounces of sharps, 3 oz. of wheaten flour, 5 oz. of peas, i lb. of meal, 2 oz. of cheese, 2 pints of milk, and 3 eggs, will afford more than about 13 oz. of carbon and i oz. of nitrogen daily. Maechal de Calti.—L'Union Med., Oct, 20, 1863. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eev., Jan., 1864. Contends that cerebro-spinal lesions are frequently the consequence, and not the cause, of the diabetic condition. He cites one case ia which a female, a3t. 38, had been diabetic seven years before a fatal attack of cerebral symptoms. Anstie, F. E.—On some points in the treatment of Diabetes. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 17.169 SECRETORY SYSTEM. ' Anstio tbiuks it dangerous to diminish suddenly tbe daily dose of opium, thougb it may be large, which diabetics are in the habit of taking He thi'uks they require a larger proportion of fatty food, and that phos- phorus in the "form of hypophosphites is beneficial. OwEX Rees, M.D.—Lancet, Oct. 16. Kecords the case of a female suffering from well-marked diabetes mellitus who obtained considerable benefit from the administration of Liq. Arsenici Chloridi, 111.V ter die. LowENSOK.—On a imrtictdar condition restdtincj from the epidermoid transformation of the 'Epithelium of the Bladder. Petersb. Med. Ztsc'hr., 2, p. 321;, 1862. Eokitansky describes as one of the results of chronic cystitis a more or less extensive growth of epidermis on the mucous surface, which ultimately leads to the formation of thickly laminated, whitish, glisten- ing layers of epidermic cells, which become detached in large laminae. This change may be propagated to the ureters. Lowenson regards this degeneration as the starting-point of an advanced and interesting form of disease, of which he records the following instance :—A female, £et. 40, died of peritonitis, the abdomen being very painful and distended. There was a roundish tumour felt above the symphisis pubis, and stenosis of the mitral valve. At the autopsy the tumour was found to extend as high as the umbilicus, and to be closely adherent to the uterus. On cutting into it it was found to consist of the urinary bladder, enormously dilated, and filled with a very large quantity of small yellow globules, and of dully glistening scales lying free in their interstices. The mass, weighing about 3^ pounds, was exceedingly like a soup of boiled yellow peas, between which the flattened husks lay. The small, clear, yellow globules had a spherical or lenticular shape. Their diameter varied from i to 4 tenths of an inch; their surface was smooth, their consistence that of moist clay. The whole inner surface of the bladder was covered with laminar flakes, many of which lay between and in the globules. These laminae covering the wall of the bladder were elastic, firm, of a dull mother-of-pearl bril- liancy, and the layers lying next to the cavity of the bladder resembled in colour and consistence the substance of the globules. After the removal of these laminre epithelial membranes could be peeled off the mucous surface. In certain places the transition and the transforma- tion of the laminar deposits into the semifluid substratum of the globules was very evident. The mucous membrane of the bladder was normal, in some places only it was worn away, and depressions were left. The urethra and the ureters were normal. The kidneys were in a condition of granular atrophy. The large intestine was inflamed, the peritoneum covered with puriform exudation. On examination of the yellow globules with the microscope it was seen that young epithelial cells of the mucous membrane, often in a state of fatty degeneration, lassumed gradually all the qualities of very large epidermic scales as • they passed into the laminar deposits. Most of them were devoid of iiucici, many were granular, and, according to their position, presented various microscopic peculiarities. The action of reagents showed that tlie globules consisted of granular fatty matter, and calcareous, ofhepout on piiactical mkdicinr. 170 grauulo-eella, and epidermic scales. Cholesterine could not be detected in the masses; they consisted principally of stearine. Loweuson believes that under tlie inflnence of a continued inflammatory irritation an abundant epitliolial growtli took place, and the cells which were formed either immediately underwent fatty degeneration or after they had assumed the ciiaracter of large epidermic cells. Then the contractions of the bladder detached fragments of the fissured deposits, and out of these the fatty concretions were formed, the globular form being im- parted by mutual attrition and friction. It is not surprising that under these circumstances the wall of the bladder became hypertrophied. BiLLEOTn ; Beer.—Pathological chancjes in the Spleen. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, p. 23. (I) Acute diffuse processes.—These may occur with or without swelling, with hyperajmia or anajmia, and with varying degrees of con- sistence. In the typhus spleen the venous sinuses are but slightly dilated, the capillaries and arteries not. In the veins there was quite a surprising quantity of cells containing 2 to 6 nuclei, just as in the lym- phatic glands of the same subjects. The normal cells are present in much smaller number. Among the larger cells it is not rare to meet with some one or two processes indicating their relation to the epithelium of the venous channels. In the splenic tissue and in the Malpighian cor- puscles Billroth was unable to discover these large cells. The Malpighian corpuscles were almost always poor in cells, and therefore were not so evident, but were never absent. The large cells were most abundant in the spleens of those typhus subjects who died in the first or second week; at a later period they were more scanty. If their size is com- pared with the width of the hepatic capillaries it must be admitted that some of them may stick and be arrested there, or at least may give rise to obstructions in the circulation of the liver. Jn pyccmia, septiccBmia, and morbus maeulosus, the consistence of the spleen varies ; the very soft quality is not characteristic, but dependent on the duration of the disease in each case, on the febrile marasmus, and the ana3mia. On accurate examination no niorphogical change was ever found except a j slight tumefaction of all the cell elements. In one case of morb. macules, the spleen, without being putrid, was almost in a state of pap, and after it was hardened contained extraordinary large amounts of myelinc products, leucin-globules, and cholesterine-crystals. (II) Acute circum- scribed processes.—Miliary iuhercvlosis affects the whole organ. The whole parenchyma is dark, full of blood, firm, and exquisitely brittle, and contains scattered through its substance a great number of white deposits, of the size of a millet-seed, consisting of fine granular, mole- j cular masses. Such spleens convey the impression that the Malpighian | corpuscles are greatly enlarged, but Billroth positively declares that the tubercles are chiefly situated in the splenic tissue, and very rarely in i the corpuscles, which are often compressed. The veins in the vicinity I of the tubercles are enlarged, turgid with blood, and contain a great I number of cells with large nuclei, almost as in the typhus^ spleen. I Hcemorrhayic infarctum and its metamorphoses.—Infarcta are as frequent I in the interior of the spleen as on its surface. Billroth doubts whether I they are caused by embolism ; he always found the venous sinuses in a I171 SECRETORY SYSTIOM. state of thrombosis (GroLe believes the hsemorrhagic infarctum to be produced by exti-avasation of blood), and tensely filled with blood. The blood-globiiles arc often massed together in roundish heaps by agglu- tinating fibrine, presenting the appearance which has been termed "blood"corpuscle-holding cells." Billroth has not observed the trans- mission of an infarctum into an abscess. (Ill) Chronic diffuse process. Simple liypertrophic spleen.—The alterations in this state may be very various. The splenic tissue may contain a great excess of cells, while the plexiform fibres condense and thicken, and the capillaries enlarge. The highest degree of condensation of the plexiform tissue leads to dis- appearance of the cells. In some cases considerable enlargement of the spleen depends only on hypertrophy of the plexiform tissue, while the capillaiy veins may remain normal. In other cases they are narrowed or enlarged. The walls of the larger veins and arteries are never thickened, but the venous epithelium is often abnormally large. Yellow pigment is often present, but this is not peculiar to the hypertrophic spleen. The Malpighian corpusclesoften areuualtered. Billroth, however, observed in two cases, where there existed enormous enlargement of the lymphatic glands and splenic tumour without leucaemia, these vesicles generally enlarged, and of cartilaginous consistence, the plexiform tissue thickened with local fibroid, cicatrix-like formations. The degeneration does not remain limited to the Malpighian corpuscles, but extends itself in their vicinitj'', and may lead to obliteration of the small veins. Diftuse contractions are not met with in the spleen. JSypertropMc spleen, with hiach pigment.—This Billi'oth considers to be the special result of in- termittent fever. The splenic tissue is not essentially altered; the Malpighian corpuscles are almost normal. The brownish-black pigment consisting of granules and grains irregularly massed together in globular forms or as mere flakes, was in two cases scattered about the Malpighian vesicles and the trabeculae; in a third case the vesicles were almost quite free, but the whole tissue was full of it. Grohe believes the pig- ment to be derived from capillary haemorrhages. The hacony spleen is not always enlarged, but is always abnormally firm. Two forms are to be distinguished. In the first the so-called sago-spleen, the bacony matter lies exclusively in the Malpighian corpuscles, and degeneration proceeds further from this starting-point. The deposit takes place from the arteries, but whether it occurs in or between the cells remains doubtful. The capillaries do not become obliterated. The second form is that where the bacony matter appears in the walls of the small veins. In sections unaltered ei)ithelium is seen on the inner surface of the structureless thickened wall of the vessels. The inter- mediate tissue is poor in cells, in part quite altered and changed into an homogeneous substance, strongly refracting light. Billroth has not met with a combination of these two forms, which Sch. Seidel aflirms to occur. He says, also, that amyloid spleens are very suitable for study- ing llic capillary veins, since they are well adapted for injections. (IV) Chronic circumscribed processes.—Cheesy tubercle in three cases was concurrent with enlargement of the spleen. The tubercles were nu- merous, and it was evident that they were developed out of miliary. The masses, some of which were as large as a walnut, were either defi-REPORT ON PRACTICiiX MEDICINE. healthy individuals. (3) Parasiticide treatment must be more rapidly 17:J uitcly circumscribed or bounded by a layer of thickened connective tissue. Ilaimorrlmge and pigment formation had not occurred in them, but pigment existed in the more or less hypertrophic intervening tissue. Ciiolesterine was abundantly present in all three instances. Athero- matous degeneration of tlie splenic artery, which is common in old persons, was never found to extend to its branches. Dron, a.— On Si/pliilitic Disease of the JEjnch/dimis. Arch. g6a., Nov., Dec, 1863. Schmidt's Jalu'b., vol. 121,'p. 31. Dron observed in the course of 6 months 16 cases of orchitic disease in syphilitic hospital patients at Lyons. In 14 of these the epidydimis alone was afl'ected. The globus major is the part most often and most considerably diseased. In 9 of the 16 cases both the organs were attacked at the same time, but one side generally in a greater degree than the other. The existence of the disorder often is but little noticed; in the 5 cases where its commencement was observed it is stated to have appeared at the earliest 2, and at the latest 5 months after a chancre. Other secondary symptoms are always present. The disorder yields to treatment, on an average, in about 2 months ; Pot. lod. seems to be quite as efficient as mercury. If left to itself it probably continues for an indefinite time. Stueges, O., M.B.—Bronzing of the Skin in connection with diseased Supra-renal Bodies. Lancet, Nov. 19, 26. Sturges relates three cases, in all of which the supra-renal bodies alone were the seat of disease of any extent likely to interfere with life, and in all the bronzing of the skin was coincident with the first notice of impaired health. In one case the gradual darkening of the integument could be watched almost from day to day as the disease advanced, till near the patient's death, some parts of the body were almost black. Sturges does not regard every case of debility with bronzing of the skin as an instance of Addison's disease, but contends that in cases where symptoms of debility arise and persist which are inexplicable by reference to the condition of any other part of the organism, and which are accompanied by bronzing of the skin, the supra-renal capsules are diseased. He considers it as doubtful, in spite of Dr. Bucknill's case (examined by Dr. Ogle), whether exceptions to this rule ever occur. CUTANEOUS STSTEM. Erasmus "Wilson.—On the Fhytopathology of the Skin, and Nosopht/to- dermata, the so-called Parasitic Affections of the Skin . Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eev., Jan. 1864. Chaussit, M.—On the so-called acute Parasitic Diseases of the Skin. L'Union, loi, 103, 105, 106, 108, 110, iii, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 121, p. 44. Chaussit lays down the following as the necessary criteria of the parasitic nature of a disease:—(i) The parasite must be present from the very commencement. (2) It must be shown that its contagious quality depends on the transfer of fungi-sporules from diseased to173 CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. successful than others. After examining in detail the nature of the supposed parasites, the nature and the contagious quality of parasitic diseases, and, lastly, their treatment, the author submits the following conclusions :—(i) It is possible that there are vegetable parasites which find on the surface of the human body favorable conditions for their development. (2) At the present time it is not demonstrated that such parasites constitute the essential and necessary cause of certain cutaneous diseases. (3) Neither microscopic nor chemical nor ana- tomical examination support the view of the vegetable nature of the favous formation, or of the round corpuscles described as fungi-sporules. (4) They rather prove that the elements of the favous formation are produced by the organism, and that the other corpuscles may have proceeded from components of the tissues altered by disease. (5) In all cases these products are not the initial phenomenon of the so-termed parasitic skin diseases. (6) It is wrong to regard them as the cause of their contagious property, because they are formed with the same characters in other non-contagious diseases. (7) Even the advocates of the parasitic theory do not agree respecting the part which these hypothetic vegetable formations play in the pathogeny of skin diseases. (8) It follows that at the present time we cannot admit in dermatology either a disease essentially depending on a parasitic vegetable growth or an antiparasitic treatment. "WAEBtiKTOjr Begbie, J. — Clinical Observations on JPavus. Edinb. Med. Journ., March, 1864. Begbie advocates depilation in the treatment of favus as superior to all other modes of treatment. It is, however, to be combined with the use of phyticide applications, as a solution of corrosive sublimate, a liniment of huile de cade, and sulphate of mercury ointment. The precise plan pursued in all the cases of favus recently under Begbie's care is as fol- lows :—On reception the patient has at once a hot bath, and both head and body are thoroughly cleansed with the aid of soft soap ; tlie hair of the head is then cut to the level of the favus crusts, and the oil of juniper is applied by means of a thick camel-hair brush. On the succeeding day poultices of potato starch are placed over the head, and diligently continued till the complete separation of the crusts is effected. This done, the juniper oil is reapplied, and on the day following the process of depilation commenced. While this is continued the daily use of one or other of the phyticide applications is being made. Care should always be taken that the depilation is complete, and that it is persevered in until the growth of healthy looking hairs over all parts of the scalp is observed. Thus, the treatment may require many weeks for its thorough execution, but when it is remembered that the cure effected is radical its lengthened duration may well be tolerated. A case is re- corded in which it seems probable that favus-sporules gave rise, first, to herpes circinnatus and subsequently to favus in the same part. TiLBUBT Fox, M.D.—On Impetigo contaffiosa. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 16, April 30, May 7, 21, Juue 4. The author applies the above name to a form of disoi'der desio-natedREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 171. under tlie iudefiiiito name of " porrigo," by Mr. Startiii. On the Bcalp it appears aa isolated, circular, Hat, yellowish, granular-looking Bcabs, without any inflammatory areola, developed as a ■primanj disease from a small pustule; on tlie general surface as small red points, isolated most usually, becoming pustular, then quasi-bulbous (always umbilicated), and presenting a circular form, with more or less redness around, attain- ing the size of a shilling or more, and then breaking out into super- ficial, wet-leather-looking, ulcerated surfixces. The contents of the pustules were made up of puriform material (a plastic lymph), pus, fat, epithelial cells, and parasites, animal {Steatozoon folliculorum) and vegetable, resembling the trichophyton, and also bodies resembling amy- loid corpuscles. The parasites are only found occasionally, and are accidental components of the disease. Certain deviations are met with from the normal standard. The disease is essentially and highly con- tagious, and the specific contagious quality resides in the secretion of the pustule, and is not parasitic, as shown by microscopic" examination. Cases were quoted to show that the disease was inoculable, by the in- troduction into the skin of a sound person of some of the discharge. Fox points out the similarity between cases of impetigo contagiosa and so-called " bastard vaccinia." The latter was in many cases simply impetigo contagiosa, which mostly followed vaccination, or could be traced by contagion through a series of cases to some one subject in whom the disease had followed close upon vaccination. Impetigo con- tagiosa of the scalp often coexisted with so-called bastard vaccinia of the general surface. Inoculation produced a pustular condition closely resembling vaccinia. Some of the cases appeared to be impetigo modified by the vaccine virus. Fox was sure that vaccination had a great deal to do with the disease, and in this he was confirmed by Dr. Fuller's testimony as to a remarkable epidemic of skin-disease which was consecutive to vaccination at Southampton. The treatment consisted in the application of sulphur ointment and administration of cod-liver oil and iodide of potassium. Inoculation experiments proved the contagious nature of the disorder, while it was also positively determined that no vegetable parasite existed in the matter employed. TiLETTBT Fox, W., M.D.—Ow the nature of so-called Parasites of tie Skin. Brit. Med. Journ., March 19, April 2. Fox argues against the correctness of Erasmus Wilson's view, and endeavours to show, first, that the attributes possessed by the so-called parasites are sufficiently distinctive of vegetable bodies. These he enumerates as—{a) structural, {h) chemical, and (c) vital. Of the first, he says, we are enabled to distinguish the presence of cellulose externally, and internally the primordial utricle coloured by iodine; also the tubed mycelial form and fructification, the latter being un- represented in animal structures. Of the second, ether, chloroform, and spirit of wine, render cpitlielial tissues transparent, and dissolve all fatty substances, while vegetable parasites remain unchanged. Ammonia dissolves animal products, e.g. pus, puriform secretion, crusts, &.C., converting them into a gelatinous mass, and caustic potash has the same effect. Of the third he affirms that iu the vast majority of casesCUTANEOUS SYSTEM. 175 the external air has certainly free access to those situations in which fun^i are wont to occur, so that the germs of these formations are derived from without. He states also that a separate hair affected with parasitic growth, after being put aside for some time in a warm place, will sometimes exhibit a luxuriant crop of mycelial threads and sporules, while not a particle of fungus can be found in any other part of the field. This proves that the formations supposed by Mr. Wilson to originate from granular degeneration of living tissues will grow when' separated from them and deprived of any nutrition from the blood. The occurrence of a union of cells, as in the formation of the myce- lium, is without example in the epithelium of animal tissues. Secondly, Fox insists that it is impossible to admit the possibility of a conversion of an animal into a vegetable tissue, which he deems contrary to the law of limitation, by which tissues preserve their type. A degenerating structure loses its vitality alike in all its parts, and undergoes chemico- physical change; it cannot assume a different form and enter upon a new kind of life. Fox sums up his arguments as follows :—" Having regard to the law of limitation as it obtains generally ; to the vegetable nature of the parasites ; the differential attributes of animal and vege- table ; the effects of inoculation (the latter now succeeding, now fail- ing) ; the experiments of various observers, showing that nutrition is lowered in its standard in cases of parasitic disease, both in man, animals, and vegetables ; the experiments of Stilling on frogs ; the free existence of the germs in the air; the existence of fungi generally in the hard structures of animals ; the independent life of the parasite; the adaptation of certain soils to certain vegetations; the effects of treatment (a combination of local and general remedies succeeding best in tinea) ; the distinct evidence of the existence of a state of local mal- nutrition, before the appearance of any fungus, except thrush, potato disease, and the like—it appears certain that, in all cases of parasitic complication, two conditions are necessary—the presence of a suitable soil, which may or may not be appreciable to the naked or microscopic eye, and the implantation thereon of the germs of a parasite derived ab externo. These conditions may vary much in degree; the parasite may take hold upon the surface, and the soil may be too little deve- loped to nourish it; hence its death and disappearance. This explana- tion holds equally good in tinea, in thrush, in the instances of fungi found in the cavities of tuberculous lungs, the stools of cholera, or the ordinary shreddy discharges of muco-enteritis, as in the ordinary mouldy jam or oidial vine disease. The doctrine that the tissue of animals can retrograde into vegetable structures, like that of spontaneous gene- ration, shocks my mind and offends my reason." ZiEMSSEN.—Sycosis. Greifsw. Med. Beitrag., p. 99, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, p. 298. The author's researches confirm the observations made by Kobner (respecting this disease and its relation to mycosis tonsurans, and lead him to the following conclusions:—There is a parasitic and a non- parasitic (inflammatory) form of sycosis. Tlic former depends on the development of a fungus which appears to be identical with that of 1heport on practical medicine. 17G herpes tonsurans. Like Griiby and Kocli, he always found Die fun- gus chiefly between the liair and tlic interior root-slieath, and describes as they do the form of spores and sporidia-chains as the predominating. In the later stages of development Ziemssen found some conditions varying from those described by the above-mentioned observers, but agreeing with the account given by Kobncr. He observed, not onlv niycelium-threada of considerable length, and which often branched dichotomously, but also the hairs of the beard, like those of the scalp in herpes tonsurans, were so x^enetrated by the fringe, tlmt the con- nection of its libre-cells was loosened, the hair breaking off short close to the surface of the skin, and presenting deep lateral indentations and fractures. He relates the following successful inoculation. He rubbed for a long while a spot of his chin, which he had shaved, irritated till it was red, and moistened with saliva, with a number of hairs containing fungi. After a week he felt itching, and there appeared a linotty infiltration of the size of a pea, which was perforated by a hair and covered by a scab. After 4 weeks had elapsed the infiltration had considerably increased, and caused painful tension. A central hair was drawn out of the nodule, which presented a white mass lying between the hair and the root-sheath. After the application of solu- tion of caustic potash a layer of fungi was seen under the microscope, consisting of spores and a few threads. On the contrary, the scales and scabs lying on the infiltrated spot nowhere showed any spores. Ziemssen says this case proves that where a fungous growth exists in sycosis it is to be regarded as the cause of the whole disease. Cases of non-parasitic sycosis are characterised by a leathery condition of the affected skin, and by an eruption of pustules, which at first were dis- crete, but afterwards crowded together, were thickened at their basis, and had a hair in the centre of each. The fungoid growth of the pa- pillary structure, the suppuration, and the fungi, were absent. Ziemssen examined also 6 cases of alopecia circumscripta, but found no fungi in any, nor any loss of sensibility in the bald patches. HiLLiEB, T., M.D.—Is Alopecia areata or Tinea decalvans contagious? Lancet, Oct. i. In a large parochial school at Hanwell, containing from iioo to 1200 children, of both sexes, and from 6 months to 14 years of age, a number of the children were found all at once to have on their heads patches of baldness, quite smooth and pale. Most of the patches were round, some were more irregular in shape. The number of children afitcted ■was 43, and they were all girls from 7 to 14 years of age, who lived together. There was no case of the same kind amongst the infimts or the boys, who occupied a separate part of the building. On more careful inquiry it was ascertained that i girl had been suffering from this disease of the scalp in an aggravated form for i or 2 mouths, and had been allowed freely to associate witli the others. In the root- sheath of some hairs some amount of parasitic growth was detected, but on the whole it was very small. Hillier has failed, like otliers, to detect any parasite, even in cases where baldness has been extendmg rapidly, and is inclined to believe that alopecia in circumscribedCUTANEOUS SYSTEM. 177 patches may arise independentl3^ He states that we must not expect to find the parasite when the hairs have all come out, but when the disease is advancing and attacking fresh hairs. The best treatment consists in blistering the affected patches. J. EussELL, M.D.—Cases of Pemphigiis apparently originating in disease of the Outaneoics Nerves. Med. Tim. and Gaz., October 29. Eussell notices—as leading features of his cases—the nature of the disease itself, vascular determination followed by effusion of fibrinous fluid ; the occurrence of the malady in distinct paroxysms ; the sequence observed in the phenomena, marked nervous disturbance in the par- ticular spot about to become the seat of the eruption taking the lead, and remaining limited to the spot; and in the second case the presence of a cause operating directly upon the nervous system through the mind; finally, in the first and most characteristic case, in which the disease was almost united to the constitution, a remarkable tendency to perspiration and habitual turgescence of face. In herpes zoster and probably urticaria, the phenomena are very similar in nature. ' DuciiicsN-E-DuPAEC. — On the treatment of Prurigo. Edinb. Med, Journ., Aug. J. de Med. et de Chir. pratiq. Prurigo is not a disease which directly compromises the existence, but its obstinacy, its tendency to relapse, and the insupportable annoyance it occasions, render it one which causes much trouble and anxiety to the practitioner. Prurigo especially affects the nervous and the suffer- ing. It has been supposed to be contagious, but this is certainly not the case ; it may be complicated with itch, but, when simple, no acarus or any other animalcule is present. What distinguishes the two diseases further is that the anatomical character of prurigo is the papule, of itch the vesicle. Sometimes, no doubt, the diagnosis may be diificult.' Thus in chronic prurigo some papules may present at their summit a small vesicle, and, on the other hand, the vesicles of itch may rest upon a papu- hforni induration ; but even here the doubt should not be frequent and should not last long, both because such cases are rare and, besides' the papules of prurigo occupy the bade of the limbs and the posterior surface ot the trunk, just the contrary of what is noticed in itch. The pruritus again, affords light to the practitioner who is in doubt This is the essential symptom of prurigo, and is much more marked and persistent than that which is met with in itch. Besides, the small lamellated crusts which follow the vesicles of scabies could not be confounded with the black concretions formed in prurigo by drops of dried-up blood, ihe violent itching of prurigo may be simulated around the anus by ascarides in the rectum, by hemorrhoids, by slight inflammation of the rectum, and m the case of the genital organs by pediculi pubis or eczema of the scrotum or vulva. In a practical point of view, there are only three iorms of prungo-the recent, the chronic, and that which was called by Gilbert the latent, where papules cannot be seen by the naked eve /f prurigo IS recent the antiphlogistic treatment affords the best results It the subject 13 young, sanguine, and plethoric, and if the eruntion occupies large surfaces, Duparc commences by bleeding at the arm or 12 1178 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINli. applying leeches to the anus ; he then prescribes a milk and vegetable diet, cooling drinks, especially lemonade prepared with nitric or sulj)huric acid and sweetened with syrup. He lays much stress upon bran baths, prepared by boiling 4 lbs. of bran for half an hour in a suiliciency of water and mixing it witii the water of thebath. The affected parts are frequently washed with decoction of lettuce, dulcamara, or poppy; or the lotions are I'eplaced by prolonged inunctions made with oil of hyoscyamus, opiate cerate, or the following—chloroform grs. 75 + glycerine grs. 300. This treatment, combined with mild purgatives, often lead to a sudden and complete cure. But if the prurigo be, as is usually the case, of old standing, we must trust chiefly to external agents, though still insisting upon a suitable regimen aud the use of acid drinks. The alkalies here form excellent topical applications; the salts of potash and soda, in sufficiently diluted solutions, both favour the resolution of the papules and calm the itching. "With the same object we may have recourse to simple or aromatic fumigations, vapour baths, sometimes even corrcsive sublimate. Duparc, however, gives the preference to tar in suspension or incorporated with lard and united with opium. Lotions and baths of tar water should be frequently renewed. The following formula gives excellent results :—Tar 60 grs., gummy extract of opium 15 grs., lard I oz. In the case of baths and lotions it is well to add a gelatin- ous substance (such as a lbs. of glue to 200 quarts of water) because the papillae parts are the most sensitive of the skin. Duparc finds sulphurous preparations only moderately useful in prurigo. They only do good when it is complicated with pityriasis or psoriasis. Tlie most useful of the mineral waters are those which are alkaline, and contain a thick vegetable principle, such as the waters of Neris. In prurigo pudendi and in prurigo podicis we must often have recourse to the application of prussic acid, sulphate or muriate of morphia, chloroform, &c. In some patients benefit is derived by the occasional use of astringents and antispasmodics; in others slight and altogether super- ficial cauterizations do good. Nevertheless, though topical applications are very imjjortant, the necessity for internal remedies must not be over- looked, especially when the disease is of old standing. It is here that aconite is very useful. Many years ago M. Cazenave derived great benefit from the use of this substance in papular cutaneous aftections, especially in prurigo. Considering prurigo as a neuralgia of the papillse of the skin, having as an accessory character the appearance of papules, Cazenave had recourse to the simultaneous employment of alkaline baths and the iise of the following pill: —alcoholic extract of aconite, extract of taraxacum, 'ana gr. 15, M. ft. in pil. 40, i—ij 0. n. et mane. Duparc generally prefers tinctiu-e to the extract of aconite ; where the case is very obstinate, the use of the arseniate of iron and emollient baths are often useful. The prolonged use of the bath is especially important. Duparc often directs them to be of 2 or 3 hours' dura- tion, aud to be repeated daily. If, while, the patients are undergoing them, friction of the affected parts of the skin, or, still better, an intel- ligent shampooing, be practised, a very bcneficiid modification of the skin will be brought about.179 CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. OoLLES, AV.—Lancet, April 9. AfErins that he has greatly improved, aud even cured, cases of aujesthetic leprosy in India by applying to the diseased parts oint- ments of arsenic and biniodide of mercury. The former is used of a strength varying from 10 to 30 grains to the ounce, the latter in the proportion of 15 grains to the ounce. The arsenic was applied for about a fortnight, night and morning ; after it had caused the develop- ment of pustules like those produced by tartar emetic the biniodide was substituted, which produced vesication. This process was repeated once, or oftener, on various diseased parts, about 6 square inches of surface being acted on at one time. There were indications of absorp- tion of the arsenic. Kalb.—Brit. Med. Journ., June 18. Eecommends, as the most economic and infallible method of curing itch, a bath to which is added i to 2 kilogrammes (2 a to 4*4 lbs.) of sulphuric acid. The patient on entering the bath soon feels an itching, which causes him to scratch himself; and in this way the scabs, &c., are removed, and the acid allowed to operate on the acarus, its larvae, and its eggs. In the course of a few minutes more the stinging sensa- tion caused by the acid is replaced by a most agreeable feeling, so that the patient gladly remains in the bath during the 30 or 60 minutes required for his cure. One bath usually suffices, but Kalb finds that a repetition of the bath every second day is an excellent means of cure of the ecthyma, ulcers, impetigo, and eczema, which so often accompany itch. By way of economy, the same bath may be iised for several soldiers, as its efficacy is not readily destroyed. V. Pn.iNQTJE, A.—"Wurzb. Med. Ztschr., 4, p. 73, 1863. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, p. 43. Eecords a case of hsemorrhagic sweat occurring in an hysterical female, aet. 45, whose catamenia were regular. The bleeding ensued 3 times after long-continued severe convulsions, produced by mental emotions. On the fourth occasion Tranque himself was present. The patient suffered for 4 days previously the most violent pricliing pains along the vertebral column, in the left ear, the forehead, and the left arm. After the convulsions had lasted an hour there broke out all over the body a copious sweat, which appeared red at the parts which had been the seat of pain, and derived its colour from actual blood containing red globules. The convulsions and the pains now gradually ceased. As the skin appeared unbroken, Franque presumes that the hfemorrhage took place from the sweat-glands. Keb, T. r.—Lancet, August 13. Eecommends the use of armoracia in acne rosacea. He gives 2 ounces of the Inf. Armoraciae co. with ii\x of Spt. Ammou. co., and a little syrup of ginger, to be taken night and morning; applies a milk infusion of the fresh root to the parts affected, and enjoins the avoid- ance of stimulating liquors, and the occasional use of gentle aperients.RKPOllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 180 iSPENDEit, J. K.—Oil the nahire and Irealmcnl of Non-sypMlilic Psoriasis. Brit. Med. Joura., Jan. i6. Spender recapitulates his arguments aud facts as follows:—(a) Nou- ayphilitic psoriasis, so far as it can be proved to be uon-syphilitic, pre- sents itself under the three forms of acute, subacute, and chronic, (i) Psoriasis, like its cougeuers, probably arises from " tissue irritation," which may be aggravated or perpetuated by au unhealthy state of blood, (c) The acute form requires to be treated locally by black wash and glyceriue ; the subacute and chronic forms are relieved by tar ointment. The preparation which Spender employs consists of Ungt. Picis diluted with a large per-centage of chalk to give it consistence, aud, finally, with a moiety of zinc ointment to give it astringency. {tl) The internal administration of arsenic is generally necessary for the cure of psoriasis when it has passed into the chronic stage, (e) In doubtful cases, where arsenic, single handed, seems to fail, the union of arsenic with bichloride of mercury will sometimes produce the most satisfactory results. In auEemic persons the therapeutic properties of arsenic will sometimes lie almost dormant, until it is combined with some preparation of iron. jSTayler, Gr.—Brit. Med. J., Sept. 3. Gives the following precepts for the treatment of lichen :—In the acute stage the use of purgatives should not be neglected, as the Mist. Magnes. Colch., to which antimony may be added, and as an ex- ternal application either Goulard lotion or one holding in weak solution creasote and bichloride of mercury gr. i ad 3]. Lotio Carbonis is also of considerable benefit in these cases. In the more chronic conditions, and in lichen agrius, small doses of mercury should be given; aud, indeed, in the greater number of papular complaints this mineral will be generally required, the amount not exceeding gr. ,V of the biniodide, or gr. of bichloride. Before going to bed some mercurial ointment should be rubbed into the aifected surface. That in use at the Blackfriar's Hospital is a compound of bisulphuret and nitric-oxide of mercury, with a little creasote. In the lichen urticatus of children the same means may be adopted, regard being had to the age. Thus, to a patient of 3 years old the carbon lotion should be diluted with an equal amount of water, and the mercury diminished by two thirds for a dose. "When the eruption is confined to a few spots, or takes place in a weakly sub- ject, quinine or iron may be prescribed with advantage, the local treat- ment remaining the same. The tincture of aconite in certain cases is highly spoken of by jSTeligan, and as a local measure the same author recommends conium, given thus, viz., Succi Conii 5j + Glycerinii 5ss + Soda; Carb. gr. v -\- Aqua) sj. Baths arc highly serviceable in these disorders, but the temperature should not be too high. Alkaline baths, or sulphuretted, may be serviceable and where the irritation^ is very great, and the sldn rough and dry, a starch or gelatinous bath will be productive of considerable comfort. Scrofulous lichen requires, accord- ing to Hehra, 01. Morrh. 5SS his die, and in lichen ruber the best remedy is arsenic.181 CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. Erasmus Wihsos.—Oii the nature, the varieties, and the treatment of Eczema. Brit. Med. Journ., Nov. 19. "Wilson lays great stress on the distinction between the moist and dry forms of eczema, comprising under the latter E. erythematosum, E. papulosum, and E. squamosum ; and under the first E. yesiculosum, E. ichorosiim, and E. pustulosum. In these the amount of exudation serous or muco-purulent is often astonishing, forming a positive flux. According to his observation the dry forms of eczema are more than twice as irequent as the moist. The copious exudation of E. ichorosum is not merely a serous fluid expelled from the vessels in consequence of over-distension of their parietes; it is a positive secretion, in which the cellular elements of the cuticle take an active part, and bestow upon tlie fluid its special properties—for example, its density and frequent opalescent appearance. That same influence which causes the discharge of such immense quantities of fluid from the mucous membrane of the bowels in cholera is also active in E. ichorosum. In the course of a few hours several pints of fluid may be poured out from the denuded surface of the derma, partly, no doubt, by Avay of excretion, but not less actively also by way of secretion. The causes of eczema are grouped under the heads of general and local debility, the former comprising assimilative, nutritive, and nervous debility. In 300 cases 278 were referable to general and 22 to local debility; and of the above 278 there were 143 examples of assimilative debility, 103 of nutritive debility, and 32 of nervous. If we consider them in the order of their numeri- cal importance, the arrangement in reference to the leading remote pre- disposing causes would stand as follows:—deranged digestion, 51; errors of diet, 33 ; weakly parentage, 21; vicissitudes of cold, heat, and moistvn-e, 21; anxiety and afiliction, 16; hereditary diathesis, 16; ungenial climate, 14; constitutional and organic disease, 14; excessive labour, mental and jihysical, 11 ; uterine, reproductive, and puerperal derangements, 11 ; errors of hygiene, 10; gouty and rheumatic dia- thesis, 8 ; deranged menstruation, 7 ; fevers, eruptive and malarious, 7 ; excessive growth, 7 ; vaccination, 7. Of constitutional remedies the most important are aperients and tonics ; among the former Wilson values highly sulphate of magnesia, which may be given in combination with small doses of quinine and nitric acid. Arsenic is only to be given when other means have accomplished all that tliey can ; it should always be administered in small bulk and on a full stomach. It should be given in small doses, and its use should be continued for a considerable time. The local treatment of eczema must be conducted according to the general principles of surgery. The inflamed part must be soothed in the acute stages of the disease, it must be supported and stimulated during the chronic stages, and it must be excited to a new action in tlie most chronic stage of all. To soothe we must employ water-dress- ing, unguents, cerates, well-adjusted bandages, and rest. To give local tone, we must!have recourse to stimulant applications of various kinds. The water-dressing is useful where there is heat, pain, itching, or ten- sion, but should not be continued too long, lest it lower the tone of the tissues and perpetuate the eruption. AVlien great irritability prevails in the constitution of the patient we require to have recom'se to seda-182 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. tives; nnd wliero irritability is present in the part we may find it diffi- cult to contrive a dressing which will perl'ectly suit the eruption. Sometimes a sedative, such as the acetas pluinbi, added to the ointment, relieves the irritability ; sometimes a more stimulating application, such as the uugt. res. flav., or the juniper tar ointment. At other times we may put an end to the irritability by pencilling the surface with a weak solution of the nitrate of silver in nitric ether. Again, we rarely fail to relieve the irritability by washing the part thoroughly with the juniper tar soap, drying it, and dressing and packing it up again as before. The erythematous form of eczema yields very kindly to the benzoated ointment of oxide of zinc; so also do the moist forms of the eruption, the dressing being aided bj^ moderate compression with a bandage. E. ichorosura must be followed up patiently with this plan of local treatment until the ichorous secretion ceases to be formed and the eruption heals. But the chronic forms of the disease, represented by ecz. squamosum, require a stimulant treatment. Washing with the juniper tar soap, dressing with the ungt. resiu. flav., pencilling with a solu- tion of nitrate of silver, or a strong lixivium of potash.* luthemoistforms of eczema there is always a considei'able quantity of serous lymph pre- sent in the tissues of the skin ; and until that serous iiuid is removed, either by absorption from Avithin or by excretion from the part, the skin cannot return to its normal state. It is to the presence of this fluid, infiltrated in the substance of the skin, that the chronic forms of eczema owe their thickening, their induration, and their rupture ; the latter giving occasion to fissures and cracks, and being most conspicuous where the skin is naturally thick and wrinkled, as on the hands and fingers or the feet, behind the ears, along the borders of the mouth and in the cleft of the podex. For this state of the skin in an aggra- vated form there is no remedy to compare with a solution of caustic potash. That application seems to purge the skin of its abnormal fluids, to promote absorption, and to give energy to nutrition ; and it is amazing with what rapidity the cracks will heal and the most chronic state of disease get well under this treatment. Meade, E. H.— On the treatment of Eczema. Brit. Med. Jouru., Dee. 17. Meade finds the most efficacious internal remedies are bichloride of mercury and antimony. The latter is more especially useful in acute eczema occurring in persons of a fall iuflaminatory habit, wlio are also, perhaps, subject to gout or rheumatism. Tartar emetic given here in combination with aperient salines and magnesia will often cure the complaint very quickly. We frequently see very annoying cases of eczema in oldish people, in whom the skin round the anus and about the scrotum or labia is aftected. The combination of bichloride of mercury and tartar emetic is particularly useful in these cases, effecting a cure in a week or two after they have resisted other treatment for 2 or 3 years. The dose of bichloride is gr. -jV to- die -f Ant. Pot. Tart, gr.'.^ in Dec. Sarza or Dec. Dulcamar. Eczema in infants is very bene- * Whenever these stronger local remedies are used, the eruption should be suhsd- quently dressed with the benzoated ointment of zinc, and then carefully packed uj).183 CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. ficially treated by Hydr. Biclil. gr ^, with fluid extract of garsaparilla and Glycerine. Detebs.—0« the spontaneous origin of Malignant Pustule as the result of internal cames. L'Union, 24, 25, 1864. Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. 123, p. 50. The possibility of the spontaneous origin of the disease which was asserted by the earher writers was denied by Enaux and Chaussier. ]S"elaton and Vidal admit that tlie disease may be produced by inocula- tion with morbid matter, and may also originate spontaneously. Devers' observations, made in the department of Landes, in Erance, are to the following effect. The district of La Senate is situated in a barren, dry region, M-ith a calcareous soil, and has a population of about 500 in- habitants. Since the end of the previous century, on account of the want of grass foddei', trefoil and clover were laid down, and the cattle were driven into a neighbouring forest for pasture. Coincidently with this a raging pestilence broke out among the horned cattle and the sheep, viz., malignant pustule, which only subsided, and that gradually, after the natural meadows were restored and many vineyards laid out, by which the live stock was much diminished. Since 1830 no occurrence of malignant pustule was any longer observed among the cattle, but, on the contrary, from a date 10 years earlier it began to prevail among men. The first case, in a man aged 70 resulted from the prick of a thorn; in the 2nd and 3rd cases, one of which proved fatal, infection was doubtful; in the 4th and ^th cases it was clearly demonstrated ; in the 15 other cases observed after 1830 there was decidedlj^ no communica- tion of disorder; in the period from 183 15 to 1848 no case occurred, but from thence up to 1863 there were 12 reported. On the whole, 20 per- sons (6 m. and 14 f) were attacked, of ages varying from 18 to 70; 5 females died, but no males. The pustule was situated 16 times on the arms or on the hand, 4 times on the face. The conclusions which the author draws from the history of this epidemic are as follows—(a) Causes.—In La Bcnate carbuncular fever appeared among animals, in consequence of bad feeding, and disappeared again after about 30 years, when the cause was removed. During this epizootic some cases of pustula maligna were observed in men, which were directly communi- cated by contagion from without. After a pause of 13 years there have again been observed for some years in men numerous cases exactly like the first, but as the disease in animals had ceased for a long time these could only have proceeded from internal causes. These causes appear to develop themselves in men under the influence of excessive heat and dryness during the summer, (b) Natxire of the disease.—The pustule is the most common result of the action of the poison of carbuncle upon men, whether the same be introduced from without or has originated spontaneously in the system. The special reaction of the human organism in the endeavour to remove the poison induces the formation of the pustule, unless its powers are overwhelmed by the excessive quan- tity of the spontaneously pi'oduced poison, or by the direct reception of the same into the circulatory, digestive, or respiratory channels. The carbuncular poison concentrated in the pustvile appears at first to suD:erIIKPORT ON niACTICAL MKUICINE. 184. an arrest, and even a woalcening of its active properties (e8])ecially of its iuoeuhibility, according to the experience of the Medical Society of Eure and Loire), but soon regains its original malignity, destroying tlie neighbouring tissues and producing the usual disorders. In the eases where the reaction of the organism, in consequence of the excessive virulence of the poison, does not take place in the manner described, another variety of carbuucular disease arises, termed by Fournier malignant carbuncle, by Maunoury carbuncular fever, by Bourgeois gangrenous erysipelas. Tliis last variety appears in men only excep- tionally, but is the rule in animals ; the converse also is tiie case. Malignant (cdema (which the author lias not observed) appears to oc- cupy an intermediate position between these two chief varieties. (c) Prognosis.—This is very different, according as the pustule has been treated early and in a judicious manner or not. In the first case the patients all recovered quickly and without grave accidents; in the other 5 cases of,death occurred, and only 3 who had not been treated recovered after great danger and long suff'ering. It is more dangerous if the pustule is situated on the face than when it is on the arm or the hand, (n) Treatment.—The malignant pustule is to be destroyed immediately, under all circumstances, whatever be its form, its seat, or the stage of its development. The author found the actual cautery (ferruni candens) the best remedy, and always successful in his hands. It has the advan- tage, especially in the country, of being always at hand, it only destroys the parts which it touches, promotes the effusion of a large quantity of serum, and induces the necessary reaction in the adjacent parts better than any other means. If the epidermis is elevated b}'' i-ecently exuded serum and separates itself around the necrosed part the cauterization has not been sufficiently deep, and must be repeated. The next most efficacious means is caustic potash, others are much inferior. The after- treatment consists in cold compresses, the application of charpie wetted with decoction of oak bark or cinchona, and repeatedly touching with nitrate of silver to promote the healing process. The diet must be strengthening and exciting; poultices, leeches, and low diet are injurious. (e) Prophylaxis.—This consists, when sources of external contagion are present, in diminishing the number of cattle, improving the quality of their food, and allowing them, especially during the heat of summer, to be but little fatigued. The bodies of diseased animals must be buried in deep pits far from human habitations, and men themselves must ob- serve the greatest cleanliness, and wash every abrasion of tlie skin immediately with vinegar, &c. It was only by the use of these means that the inhabitants of La Beuate remained almost entirely exempt, and that the pest ultimately ceased among the cattle. It is less easy to afford protection against the internal or spontaneous origin of tlie disease, as its causes are more difhcult to avoid. Devers counsels to mitigate as much as possible the effect of bodily exertion in the heat and drought, by providing shady plantations, springs, and cisterns. CoLLis, M. H.— On the treatment of Anthrax by pressure. Dub. Journ. of Med. Sci., Feb., 1864. CoUis uses in most cases empl. sapouis c. oi)io, and applies it in all185 SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. sta'^es of the disease, both when inflammation is commencing and when gangrene and suppuration have already occurred. He states it as a fact" that as soon as pressure is made the fibrinous exudation uuder tlie fascia ceases to extend, the pus is more easily evacuated externally, and the plugs of exudation are more readily forced out. Mautezik, J. L. and C. L.—New mode of treatment of Malic/nant Pustule. Arch, gener., March, 1864. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 123, P- ^73- The authors reject the caustics (Hydr. Bichl. and Pot. fusa) as uncertain and inefficacious ; the actual cautery they find, if used alone,' too tedious and painful, requiring as it does the application of 12 to 115 irons to the part, besides others to the adjacent. They recommend the extirpation of the pustule by the knife and the subsequent applica- tion of the hot iron to the surface of the wound. This proceeding is always successful if performed before phenomena indicating general infection of the system have set in, and even at a later period it is of some advantage. In cases where the pustule is situated over an artery there is much less danger of haemorrhage by operating in this way than in employing caustics. Hutchinson, J.—Leucoderma and its differential diagnosis from Iforbus Addisonii. Clin. Lectures and Eeports of the London Hospital, 1864, p. 7. _ Hutchinson thinks that mistakes have been made from the circum- stances that the affection occurs almost solely in persons of very swarthy skins, in whom it has been supposed that the dark portions were the morbidly affected tracts, and not the white. The history of the patient will usually guide us; but if doubts should still remain, they may be removed by observing carefully the edges of the patches. If the edges of the brown tracts are convex then it is the brown which is spreading on the white ground; if, however, the reverse, then we may be sure that the skin was originally brown, and that the new and aggressive process is that of loss of pigment in patches. In either case the change begins at points. These enlarge into small round patches; the latter increase, still retaining a more or less accurately circular form. Two or more may join, and sometimes small islands of brown may be left on large areas of white, which may then look very like new patches, but the careful application of the rule referred to will clear up their true mode of production. Another point which may servo to distinguish true bronzing from leucoderma is that the white in the latter is too white. The change does not consist in a gradually produced paleness of the integument, but in the formation of abruptly margined patches, which are totally destitute of pigment, and present a degree of whiteness which is not normal even in the fairest skin. Lastly, in the true bronzing, consequent on disease of the supra-renal capsules, the coloration is always diifused, and never in well-defined patches. No special dyscrasia has been observed in con- nection with Jeucodcrma ; in 5 out of 8 cases no deviation from good health could be detected. The affection may occur at any age; the186 UEPORT ON PEAOTICAL MKDICINE. slciu does not appear in any degree altered as regards texture, softness, thifikncss, growth of hair ; no parasitic growth can be detected in the altered part, SUBJECTS OF GENEEAL INTEHEST. Mackintosh, D., M.D.—Notes on three persona struck hy Lightning Lancet, July 30. E. W— ffit. 10, was unable to walk for about 20 minutes, but was morbidly affected in no other way, with the exception of sliglit scorch- ing of the surface. J. W—, a?t. i i,lay prostrate and unconscious, with an expression of grim terror and suffering ; frothed at the mouth and moaned piteously, flung his arms and legs about in all directions, and the bystanders expected every moment to be his last. The respiration was deep, slow, and laborious ; beart palpitating, pulse weak and very irregular, pupils dilated and insensible. The scorching was more severe in this case than in the preceding, the red streaks being arranged on the sternum and tubera ischii in a stellate manner. He was unconscious for 5 hours, but rapidly recovered. T. W—, aet. 46, was struck dead on the spot. The expression of his countenance was remarkably placid ; the pupils widely dilated. The electric fluid entered at the junction of the occipital with the parietal bones, inflicting a large lacerated wound on the scalp, but not fracturing the bones of the skull. It then seem- ingly divided into two currents, which passed respectively do-«Tiwards between the soft parts and the cranium on either side of the head. That on the left side passed downwards anteriorly to the left ear and termi- nated on the side of the neck, rupturing blood-vessels and soft parts, which gave rise to swelling and extravasation of blood, that closely resembled, and might have been easily mistaken for, an extensive bruise produced by mechanical violence. The right side current passed directly downwards to the supra-clavicular region, leaving the ear and soft parts on its way livid and swollen, and terminated in that region in a dark- blue mangled-looking patch of skin, in which there were several free communications with the surface. The hair at the back of the head and that on the front of the chest was singed, but not that which covered the wound at the vertex. Chaplin, T., M.D.—The Fevers of Jerusalem. Lancet, August 37, September 3, 10. Jerusalem is one of the foost unhealthy of cities, and fever is its prin- cipal disease. Orientals and Europeans, immigrants and natives, alike Buff'er; and during the sickly period of the year almost one fourth of the population become ill. Yet Jerusalem is situated more than 2000 feet above the level of the sea, in a country not naturally insalu- brious, on the summits and sides of lofty hills; it is surrounded for three fourths of its extent by deep and precipitous valleys, which afford admirable facilities for drainage, and has not a marsh within fil'teen miles. The circumstances whicli tend to make the city unhealthy are the amount of rubbish upon which it is built, the neglect of sanitary regulations, the poverty and the filthy habits of the people, and the con-SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. ]87 taminafcion of the water supply. The varieties of fever to be met with in the Holy City are almost endless. Chaplin considers them under the heads of febricula, mild remittent fever, severe remittent fever, intermittent fever, typhus and typhoid, bilious or bilio-gastric. Syrian, or severe remittent fever, is a most variable disease in every circum- stance connected with it. Not only are no two cases exactly alike, but the difiereuce between one case and another is in many points so great that it is scarcely possible to include the modifications of the disease in a general description. It may begin with fits of ague recurring at longer or shorter intervals, or after exposure to the sun and fatigue ; it may ensue gradually or suddenly. The cold fit varies much in seve- rity and in duration; in many cases it is scarcely perceptible. As a rule, the severer the attack the less marked is the cold stage; to shake out well is a good sign in this as in the intermittent form of fever. The complications are chiefly irritability of stomach, amounting some- times to gastritis; congestion of the liver and spleen, and sometimes also of the brain. In a few cases the chest suffers, and there is cough and pain. After the paroxysms have been cut short by medicines the system does not immediately return to a healthy state. Not only is there extreme debility, but the aspect and feelings of the patient show that tlie disease has not yet relinquished its hold. He is depressed, anxious, restless, and does not regain his appetite. Often there is headaclie, thirst, and a dry tongue, even though the pulse be quick and the skin cool; and in other cases mild but distinct attacks of feverishness come on daily. This condition may last a week or more, and if great care be not taken a relapse, which may prove fatal, is very likely to ensue. Chaplin is acquainted with scarcely any disease which is so liable to relapse as Syrian fever, and with.hardly any state of the system whicli gives so much trouble and anxiety as the convalescence from it. Even long after the patient has been able to walk about and has returned to his ordinary avocations pains in the limbs, and especially in the knees and calves of the legs, will frequently remain and prevent sleep. This long-continued debility forms one of the most important sequela) of the disease. Often it remains for months, and can then only be removed by change of air. Enlargement of the spleen is sometimes added, and helps to prolong still further the infirm state of health. Chronic hepatic disorder is also very liable to follow, and occasionally terminates in abscess. Chaplin has only seen 3 such cases ; in two of them there had been no preceding diarrhoea or dysentery. It has been impossible to investigate the morbid anatomy of Syrian fever. AVhile not doubting that this disease and ague are specifically distinct, and that their exciting causes are not always identical, Chaplin thinks it beyond question that a true ague may develope into a remittent fever. Observation has led him to doubt whether Syrian fever be not really a continued fever, accompanied by a succession of periodical paroxysms, and whether it have not as definite a course to run as typhus or typhoid. Quinine will cut short the paroxysms, but it will not cure the disease • and, on the other liand, numbers of persons have this fever and recover from it without taking quinine or any other antiperiodic. Moreover cases frequently occur in which it is very difficult to mark the paroxysms^188 llEPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. One patient is always liot, another always cold ; one in constantly bathed in sweat, another for several days in succession does not sweat at all; whilst in a great number of instances the exacerbations of fever are un- attended by either a cold or a sweating stage. Diffused purple dis- coloratio]is, as well as true petechia) and sudamina, are not uncommon in this fever ; but, so far as I have hitherto observed, there is no peculiar and characteristic eruption. Exposure to the sun, especially if attended with fatigue, a sudden chill, or sleeping on the ground on cold dewy nights, are some of the most frequent causes. The disease can by no means always be traced to a malarious origin. In the matter of treat- ment the iirst thing to be done in every case is to purge, and if the constitution is robust a mercurial cholagogue is best. During the continuance of the fever acetate of ammonia and antimonial wine may be given, and, immediately on a remission being apparent, quinine. Chaplin usually gives quinine in doses of gr. v, uncombined, and in the form of pills. But when the remission is not marked, and the skin and tongue are dry, it may, with the best effect, be combined with calomel and antimonial powder. It is sometimes very difficult to decide whether quinine should be given whilst the patient is still hot or whether a remission should be waited for. No rule can be laid down; the state of the powers of the patient is the most important point to be considered. If the pulse is very frequent, and at the same time small and compres- sible, quinine may often be given Avith advantage, even when the heat of skin and dryness of the tongue show that the fever is at its height; but in these cases it should never be administered without calomel and antimony. Infusion of serpentaria with acetate of Ammonia is a most valuable medicine under these circumstances, promoting perspiration and at the same time supporting the powers. It is well to continue its use after the paroxysms have ceased, until all febrile symptoms have sub- sided, and the skin become soft and cool, when decoction of bark with soda may be substituted, and continued during the convalescence. Venesection may occasionally be employed for the purpose of bringing on a remission, and leeches may be applied to the epigastrium or behind the ears if vomiting or headache are troublesome. Agues in all their manifold varieties are met with in Jerusalem. Of 1666 cases of febrile disease attended to at the English hospital in 1862, 1147 were intermittent; in 1863, out of 1306, 931 were intermittent. In the first quarter of 1863 there were 133 cases, in the second 142, in the third, 261 and in the fourth 395. The suddeness with which a copious fall of rain ameliorates the medical constitution and dimi- nishes the prevalence of febrile disorders is very remarkable. But a more moderate fall, as of an inch or an inch and a half, followed by warm dry weather, produces an opposite condition, and increases con- siderably the amount of sickness. Also the slight showers just suffi- cient to wet the surface of the ground, which now and then occur during the summer, are very injurious; and the Arabs have a saying that each drop of such a shower is an ague. One of the most trouble- some of the irregular forms of intermittent fever is a kind of febricula which comes on every night without cold or shivering, and passes off again towards morning without a sweat. This is especially common inSUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. 189 children and delicate women. Another obstinate form is marked by a constant coldness and clamminess of skin, witli sluggishness of secre- tions, loss of appetite, and debility. But of all the forms of intermit- tent fever, uncomplicated with enlargement of the spleen, those iu wliich an attack occurs at intervals of lo days, a fortnight, or a month, arc the most intractable, and a long course of careful treatment is usually required for their removal. A low state of vital power, how- ever induced, predisposes to ague. Sleeping in a damp room and with- out a bedstead, especially if the room be on the ground floor and have a well under it, very commonly leads to an attack. Qninine is the only remedy that can be relied on; arsenic given to 7ii_xv daily has almost always failed. In recurring ague quinine only arrests the attacks for a short time, and it is necessary to pay special regard to the general state of the patient's health and the circumstances of his dwelling, occupation, food, &c. Haemorrhage from the bowels frequently accom- panies long-protracted agues, and, as well as diarrhoea, should not be hastily checked unless the patient is weakened thereby in a marked degree. The rules for prophylaxis are to take daily active exercise outside the walls, to have a cold bath each morning on rising, and a few minutes' brisk exercise immediately afterwards, to keep to a plain and re- gular diet, avoiding large draughts of water, especially after eating fruit, to guard against sudden chills and mental perturbations, to avoid exercise in the heat of the day during summer, and not to sleep on the ground floor. Typhus and typhoid are said to occur. The former has been rare in Jerusalem the last 3 years ; the latter has also been less frequent than might have been expected from the filth and bad odours with which the city is pervaded. Not a few cases have diff'ered so much from ordinary typhoid that they were only determined to be of this nature by the exclusion of typhus. In two instances of bilio-gastric fever the patients vomited large quantities of bile; complained of great heat iu the prgecordia ; had wet skins and slow pulses during the day, with attacks of fever at night. Both were very ill, but recovered under the use of calomel and quinine in large doses, the first signs of improvement being accompanied by a copious dejection of biliary matter. Lancet, October i. The influence of drainage on the rate of mortality is strongly exem- plified in Salisbury. For nine years previous to the adoption of the Public Health Act, in 1850, the annual death-rate was 30 per 1000; for the nine years subsequently it was reduced to 20 per 1000, or one fourth less. For the Close of Salisbury the death-rate for the same periods was respectively 20 and 13. The deaths by consumption for seven years before the drainage were 286, and for seven years since only 143. For 1863 the deaths from consumption were only 11, or i in 818 of the population, whilst for the whole kingdom they were i iu 376. Dn. Altiiaus.—Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sciences, August, 1864. Contributes a useful paper, giving a summary account of the mineral waters of England and the Continent of Europe, which are at present generally used for therapeutical purposes. He successively considers the alkaline, acidulous springs ; the muriated, alkaline, acidulous waters;100 llEroUT ox PKACTICAL iMEDICl.Nl'.. the filkaliiie, saliue, and the bittei* walei-H ; the simple muriated aud the muriatcd lithia waters ; tlie brines ; the iodo-bi'oinatedaud earthy waters ; the inditterent thermal springs, the chalybeates, and the sulphurous waters. Weuek, H.—Notes on the Climate of the Swisn Alj)s, and on some of their Health Itcsorts and Sims. Dublin Quart. Jouru. of Med. Sciences, i'ebruary, May, 1864. Weber notices the meteorology, the physiological, i)athological, and therapeutical influence of the Alpine climate. The following are some of the more important points. The respiratory movements become in- creased in frequency and depth with increasing elevation ; the contrac- tions of the heart become more frequent in proportion to the elevation ; the appetite and thirst are augmented; the sanguification is improved; the nervous system becomes invigorated; the sleep in general more healthy; the activity aud energy of the muscular system become in- creased ; the secretion of the skin is most likely augmented; the urine appears to be not materially altered in quantity, the amount of solids being probably increased slightly; the metamorphosis of tissues is, we may infer, accelerated. The prevalent diseases are the inflam- matory afiections of the respiratory organs, and their results—chronic catarrh, emphysema, and asthma; goitre and cretinism, and scrofu- lous complaints ; rheumatic affections and diseases of the heart; which afiections are in some degree due to the unfavorable hygienic con- ditions in which most of the inhabitants of the Swiss mountains live, while others are dependent upon the meteorological peculiarities of the climate, and especially the unfavorable influences prevalent during the cold seasons. Dr. Brugger, who practises in the Ui)per Engadin (elevated between 5000 and 6000 feet), describes pneumonia and pleuritis as very frequent among his patients—an experience which is shared by almost all the medical men practising in the higher por- tions of Switzerland. The deaths from pneumonia form in some j^arts one third of the entire mortality, according to Lombard. Occasionally a malignant form of pneumonia, or pleuritis, or pleuro-pneumonia, popularly known under the name of Alpenstich, is observed to occur epidemically. Lombard infers that the Alpenstich is sometimes a pleu- ritis, sometimes a pleuro-pneumonia, but always attended with typhoid symptoms of very rapid course, and most frequently fatal termination. In the true Alpine regions tubercular consumption is extremely rare, as also cretinism. The elevation beyond which phthisis becomes rare, or is absent, seems to vary considerably in diflerent latitudes, and to become lower as we proceed toward the poles. In the tropical zone it may be regarded as becoming rare above 7000 feet; in the warmer temperate zone, above 3500 to 5000 feet; in the colder temperate zone, above 1300 to 3000 feet elevation. At Brotterode (1840 feet), in the mountains of Thiiriugen, the per-centage of deaths from phthisis is only -9. Brehmer assures us that in the neighbourhood of Gorbers- dorf, in Silesia (1700 feet), tubercular phthisis has never been seen by him amongst the inhabitants. On the whole, it may be stated that wilh tlie increasing elevation ague, acute diseases of the liver, ha?mor- hoids, diarrhoea and dysentery, yellow fever aud cholera, become much191 SUBJECTS OF GENEKAL INTEREST. less frequeut. The beueficial iuflueiice of the mountain climate is espe- cially felt in various forms of dyspepsia and dyspeptic hypochondriasis ; in the atonic diarrhoea, anremia and want of tone observed in people returning from hot climates; in tlie cachexia, with or without splenic tumour, caused by marsh malaria; in the various forms of ana3mia, clilorosis, and hydrremia, not dependent upon serious organic disease; in scrofulous complaints; in the tendency to tuberculosis, and in its first stage especially on the higher regions, while in the slightly ad- vanced forms some of the lower and more sheltered situations only ought to be resorted to; in chronic bronchial catarrh, with abundant secretion. Sleeplessness, hysterical and neuralgic afl'ections, as also hypochondriasis, are often removed by a stay on tlie Alps. The nervous system, "Weber states, is influenced in a very marked manner by a stay on the mountains, most people perceiving very soon a greater buoy- ancy of spirits, a diminished ii-ritability of temper, a greater calmness of judgment, and especially a sounder sleep. The changes effected in sleep is especially remarkable in many constitutions; I have met with a large number of persons who for many months had been deprived of healthy sleep, and who regained it almost in the first night which they spent on the mountains; and this change seems not to be caused by- mere change of scene and relaxation of the mind—it is certainly not in all cases caused by these influences. Thus, I am acquainted with a gentleman, a hard-working student and philosopher, who for many years past has been in the habit of spending the greater part of his holidays in one of the establishments on the Eigi; his principal com- plaint while at work in a university is want of sleep, lying hours in bed without being able to fall asleep, and frequently waking after having fallen asleep. This gentleman does not regain his sleep by merely spending his holidays away from home, on the borders of the Ehine, at the sea, or even at a place of low elevation in Switzerland ; but whenever he goes to a place beyond 3000 feet high he at once enjoys very sound sleep, and does so during the whole of his stay, and even for a few weeks al'ter his i-eturn to his usual occupation. This is by no means an isolated instance. On the other hand, there are some persons who never sleep well on elevated situations, though they have often made the experiment. MEissxjiii.—Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 122, p. 313. Has a long report on trichina disease, to which, however, we can only refer, as the subject was noticed at some length in the last ' Tear- Book,' pp. 171—17^. A sequel and extension of the same is contained in vol. 124 of the same work, pp. 182—194, De Eicci, H. B,.—On the therajJciUic value of ilie Alkaline and Earthy Sulphates in the treatment of Catalytic Diseases. Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sciences, August, 1864. Eicci gives 2 cases in which the administration of the sulphites was of great efficacy. The first was that of a lady, who appeared to have been poisoned by the emanations from a dead body, and in whom the aspect of the disorder at first was exactly that of epidemic cholera in the stage of collapse. The second was one of poisoned wouud of the192 UEl'OllT ON PUACTICAL IIKDICINE. hand, whicli was oiiorinously swelled, of a dusky purple colour, with largo hullai over the dorsum; the forearm also swelled, tliou<^li not discoloured, but presenting several longitudinal i-ed lines running up to the elbow. Tiiere was great local pain, intense thirst, lieadache, loss of appetite, shivering, and general feeling of sickness. On incising tlio hand matter oozed out. IIa viLAXD, A.—The Hour of Death in acute and chronic disease. Brit. Med. Journ., October i The author has collected over jjooo cases of death, with the hour of death and other circumstances recorded, which he had tabulated and exhibited on a large chart. By this chart he showed that in looo cases of death in children under 5' years of age the periods of the greatest mortality took place during the hours between i and 8 a.m., and that in the succeeding hours between 9 and 12 p.m. the rate of tiio mortality was at its minimum. He then compared these statistics with 2891 deaths from all causes, and the chart showed how remarkably the wave-lines of death compared with those above. Deaths from consumption, although they showed a general resemblance in the wave- line, yet between the hours of 4 to 8 a.m. showed a depression when compared with the first 4 hours' period. He contended that the tables on the chart proved the extraordinary mortality in the early hours of the morning, when the powers of life were at their lowest ebb. He urged the necessity of feeding and stimulating the patients at their weakest hour, so as to tide them over a critical period, and, even if death be inevitable, so to support the patient that he might at least have a few more hours of life snatched from eternity, to admit of his being able to carry out some neglected duty, pardon some enemy, and see some beloved friend. Andeew Claek, M.D.—Clinical Lectures and Eeports of the London Hospital, 1864, p. 209. Clark contributes several short papers on warty growths, on the soft palate, on naso-palatine gland disease, on the use of the microscope in the diagnosis of diseases of the lung, on the seat of the products of pneumonia, on the migrations of spermatozoa, on albuminous urine, on renal calculi without htematuria, and on a hitherto unnoticed condition of the urine in disease and its probable relation to the habitual exhala- tion of ammonia from the skin and the temporary occurrence of albumen in the urine. Dn. EiCHAEDSOK.—Med. Tim. and Gaz., January 16. From his examination of the Norwich hospital records iinds that the lowest mortality during 30 years occurred in 1831, when bloodletting was freely employed, and a liberal amount of alcoholic liquor ad- ministered, viz., I5-J-0Z. per patient. The highest mortality was m J 836, when only 7 oz. of alcoholic liquor were allowed, and the abstrac- tion of blood was nearly a fourth less than in 1831. BnucE Tjiomson, The Epidemics of the General Prison at ^_^>''^'- and of the City of Perth, compared and contrasted. Ediub. Med. Journ., March, 18(54.REPORT ON SURGERY. BY THOMAS WINDSOE, S0KGi:Oi\ TO TUJi SALrOBD EOXAl HOSPITAL, AND TO THE MANCHESTEK ETB HOSPITAL. T. iBiiLEOTH, general surgical pathology and therapeutics (pp. 712, Berlin, G-. Reimer). F. J. Gant, the principles of surgery, clinical, medical, and operative (pp. 860, London, Churchill). W. Giintner, principles of general surgery (Prag, P. A. Credner). W. K. Fischer, compendium of surgical pathology and therapeutics (Wien, Schone- werk). Gr. H. B. Macleod, outlines of surgical diagnosis (pp. ^29, London). J. Hilton, on the influence of rest in the treatment of acci- dents, &c. (London, Bell and Daldy). W. Fergusson, course of lectures on the progress of anatomy and surgery during the present century ('Lancet,' 1864, i, 661, &c.). Gr. M. Humphry, address in surgery, ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, ii, 175). M. Burggraeve, examples of con- servative surgery ('Bull, de I'Acad. Eoy. de Med. de Belgique,' 1863, p. 884).* Br. Meyer-Alirens, Wilhehn Fabry, commonly called Falricius Mil- danus ;—an historical sketch ( ,'Arch, fiir Win. Chir.,' vi, i). O. Weber, a memoir of O. W. Wutzer (ibid., v, 342). T. Billroth, memoir of Dr. G. Fock (ibid., vi, 228). Suryical Pathology.—M. Chmffard, the influence of race on the results of surgical operations (' Gaz. Hehd.,' 1863, p. 713 ; transl. in th« 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1863, ii, 494).—Fully admitting the greater number of recoveries after important operations in England than in France, more especially after ovariotomy, the author thinks the principal part of this difference must be attributed to the influence of race, T. Billroth on the epidemic occurrence of some surgical diseases (* Arch, fur klin. Chir.,' iv, 537). M. Azam, on sudden death from pulmonary embohsra in cases of contusion or fracture ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, p. 611). E, v. "VVahl, case of pulmonary embolism after removal of a tumour (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' v, 327). * This work will be hereafter quoted as the ' Bull. Beige.'—T. W. 13194 llEPOET ON 8UEGEEY. Military Suraery.—J. Noudorfer, handbook of military surgery (Leipzig, Vogel). F, Cortesa, theorotico-praotical guide for the army Burgeon in the field (pp. 357 and339, Torino; vide 'Med.Times and Gaz.,' 1864, 1, ,?5°)- -Mr. Little, surgical notes on the campaign in Schleswig, 1864 (' Loud. Hosp. Eep.,' i, 274). E. Gurlt, remarks on the transportation ol the wounded, on the Danish and Prussian bullets, and on shell wounds, with a statistical account of gunshot injuries ('Berl. Klin. Wochenschr.,' 1864, PP- 253, 265). OPEBATIVE SUEQEEY. T. S. Wells on some causes of excessive mortality after sicrgical operations (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1864, ii, 349).—After citing a number of facts to prove that some of the mortality after surgical operations might be avoided or prevented—in other words, that the mortality is excessive—especially in the large hospitals of large cities, Mr. Wells continues:—"But lessen- ing the number of large hospitals, and increasing the number of small hospitals, and having the wards all on one story, would all be useless if there are too many beds in a ward. It is very possible that a large hos- pital, with large wards and beds widely apart, would be a far better place for the sick than a small hospital in which many beds are crowded into small wards. Indeed, by lessening the size of a ward we multiply the surfaces and angles to which putrescent matters or organic poisons may adhere. And it is extremely probable that we may have to go further than this, and not only lessen the size of hospitals, the number of floors in the building, the number of wards, and the number of beds in each ward, but also isolate the patients in all cases when contagion or infection is probable. Not only must communication of wards with each other be avoided, but there must be separate wards, containing one, or at most two beds, for patients recently operated on, and in lying-in hospitals for women recently confined, before we can hope to reduce mortality from the exces- sive to the miavoidable rate. " Now, to show that these lessons of modern sanitary science are borne out by the most recent discoveries in physiological chemistry, let me turn for a moment to the remarkable labours of Pasteur,—all made known within the last five years. His memoir on 'Alcoholic Fermentation,' in i860 ; 'On the Organised Corpuscles existing in the Air,' and his ' Exa- mination of the Doctrine of Spontaneous Generation,' in 1862; in the same year his ' Studies on the Mycoderms,' and the ' Manufacture of Vinegar;' and in 1863 his ' Examination of the part attributed to Oxygen in the Destruction of Animal and Vegetable Matters after Death,' and his ' Kesearches on Putrefaction,'—have all a very important bearing upon the development of purulent infection and the whole class of diseases most fatal in hospitals and other overcrowded places. " Commencing by purely chemical researches into the phenomena which accompany the decomposition of organic bodies, ]M. Pasteur was soon led into the field of physiology. He found that fermentation was alwa^-s associated with the existence and development of certain microscopic beings ; and he was led to inquire whether the generation of these living coi-puscles was a spontaneous act or change, or whether it could only beMOBTALITY AFTER OPERATIONS. 195 explained by the ordinary laws of reproduction. In order to ascertain what f erms might be suspended or floating in the atmosphere, he adopted the simple expedient of causing a current of air to pass over gun-cotton— a substance soluble in a mixture of ether and alcohol. The fine fibres of the gun-cotton act as a sort of air-filter, arresting all the solid particles, and the finest powders are found in the solution, and fall slowly to the bottom of tlie fluid. By careful microscopic examination he found in these atmospheric impurities (i) a quantity of granules of starch, very easily recognisable, and the numbers explained by the abundance of cultivated cereals; and (2) corpuscles which resemble in every particular the germs of the lowest organisms, and vary greatly in size and structure. The germs so collected are fecund. If they are sown in infusions in which any pre-existing germs have been destroyed by ebullition, and which have only been exposed to air which cannot possibly contain any living organism, as it has been passed through a tube of red-hot platinum, an abundance of cryptogamic vegetables or infusorial animalcules very soon appear. These are the Mucors or Mycodermes, which cover the liquid with a greasy or gelatinous pellicle ; the Mucedinea, formed of small tubes ; Tortdacea, or non-tubular plants, which attach themselves to the bottom of the vessels. The infusoi'ia are small Monads, Bacteria, and Vibrios. The Bacteria, especially the Bacteritm termo, exist in the air in immense abundance. This smallest of the infusoria is found also in all putrefying substances. It multiplies in the intestinal canal of man, and is found constantly in the white matter which collects daily between the teeth. In sour milk it is found in company with Vibrios, the most vivacious of the infusoria, whose germs are not destroyed by a temperature of 100° Centigrade. The spoi-es of the Mucedinea remain fecund even up to 120° Centigrade. It appears that a short exposure to 130° Centigrade destroys all fecundity even in the most robust; but in nature neither spores, vegetable, nor animal germs, are ever exposed to a degree of heat which can render them sterile. " "When an organic infusion has been deprived of germs by heat, and is mechanically protected from the corpuscles which the air might carry to it, it is as unalterable as an ordinary chemical solution of a mineral. The liquids ordinarily the most prone to fermentation now show no tendency to decomposition—no symptom of life is manifested. It is quite clear, therefore, that the development of living beings in organic infusions is not spontaneous, and that, in the circumstances under which fermentation ordinarily takes place, the germs of the living beings are carried in the atmosphere. " The germination of inferior beings as powerful agents of decomposition has relations as important in the putrefactive as in the fermentative process. "Whenever organic matter undergoes change—dies, is decom- posed, putrefies—germs are sown, which find their nourishment in the remains given up to destruction. "Without these germs the immediate principles of living bodies would be almost indestructible; with them, everything which has ceased to live is retiirned to the atmosphere and to the mineral kingdom. Blood as it issues from the arteries, fresh urine milk received into close vessels, and open only to air which had been deprived of germs, remained unaltered for three years; but when these liquids were exposed to ordinary atmospheric air, they very soon became196 llEPORT ON SUEGERY. covered with Mucediuea, Bacteria, and Monads, and were filled with moving Vibrios. Each form of fermentation or decomposition is associated with the growth and development of some low form of vegetable or animal life. It had long been known that the yeast formed in brewing beer was an organized substance, living, and formed by a mass of cells capable of reproduction by budding; but it was left for" M. Pasteur to show that the cells of the yeast really nourish themselves at the expense of the sugary infusion, and transform it, not by a physical or chemical, but by a physio- logical action ; that some substances added to the infusion favour the budding and multiplication of the yeast, others retard, others altogether arrest it—like the albumen of fresh eggs, which kills it, or acts on it as a poison. When alcohol is transformed into acetic acid, a vegetable Myco- derm {Ilyeoderma aceti) is the agent of the transformation. When sugar or lactic acid is converted into butyric acid, the agent is not a vegetable, but a small animalcule, seen in the form of small cylinders or rods, isolated or united into chains of many links, which turn, undulate, and float in every direction in the liquids, and are reproduced by fission. The most remarkable property of these Vibrios is that they have the power of living and indefinitely multiplying themselves without oxygen. Not only can they live without air, but air kills them. This peculiarity essentially dis- tinguishes the Mycoderms from the Vibrios. The Mycoderms incessantly feed on oxygen, and when they do not find it in solutions take it from the atmosphere. The Vibrios are killed by oxygen, yet it is by them that the butyric and tartaric fermentations are efiected. " These are the most simple of the decompositions produced by animal- cules which live without free oxygen. They are phenomena which do not differ from what is called putrefaction of animal substances. In putre- faction, as in the butyric fermentation, the work of the Vibrios is prepared for them by infusoria. In infusions of animal substances no change is observed for about twenty-four hours; then a slight movement may be observed, which is caused by small animalcules—Monas corpmcithm, Sacterium termo—moving in all directions in search of the oxygen in the infusion. If access of air is shut off, the infusoria die as soon as the^"- have consumed all the free oxygen, and fall dead to the bottom of the vessel. But if the infusion is open to the air, they find an inexhaustible supply of oxygen at the surface, when they soon form a pellicle of gradually increasing thickness. But as soon as this living pellicle has been formed, the germs of Vibrios are in their turn fecundated, and these animalcules rapidly multiply in a liquid which contains no oxygen. At the bottom, the Vibrios change the organic matters into substances of more simple composition ; while at the surface the Bacteria and Mucedinea burn these new products with the oxygen which they take from the atmosphere, and reduce them to the state of the most simple binary compounds—water, ammonia, carbonic acid. In the same way, after the death of an animal or human body, the Vibrios and their germs, which have remained in the intestinal canal quite inoffensive so long as the movements and functions of life have prevented their development, commence their office directly after the death of the^ body which they have inhabited. Shut off from oxygen, surrounded by nourishing food, they pass from within outwards.197 MOKTALITY AFTEE OPERATIONS. desfci'oyiiig the substances which surround them. At the same time the germs of infusoria which the air has deposited upon the external surface of the body are developed, and work from the surface inwards. At length the infusoria and Vibrios meet. The Vibrios are killed by the contact of the air, the infusoria die in their turn as soon as they have consumed all the Vibrios, and the work of destruction is then complete. " I have given this rapid sketch of some of the principal results of the researches of Pasteur, in order that the influence of atmospheric germs upon our bodies in health and disease may be comprehended. Although the air contains the germs which are necessary for the processes of fer- mentation and putrefaction, these germs cannot be everywhere present in all forms and equal numbers. In some currents of air there are few, in others many ; they are numerous in the lower strata, fewer and fewer as we rise higher and higher, and almost absent at the level of the snow- capped Alps. Air taken on the slopes of Mont Blanc was almost free from germs. On the chain of the Jura they were more numerous, and they increased in quantity as one descended into the valleys and approached inhabited places, becoming most abundant in the air of large cities, where an enormous quantity of organic matter is daily decomposed. Their influence upon the development and propagation of epidemic and con- tagious diseases has yet to be made out; but something has been done. Many years ago, Dr. Angus Smith led the way by his examination of the air of large cities and of crowded rooms, which other observers have carried on further. M. Chalvet found in the air of the wards of St. Louis a large quantity of starch-corpuscles ; and he collected a great deal of putrescible organic matter from the walls, windows, and bed-curtains, and found that the linen returned from the laundry was still tainted by altered blood, pus, linseed-meal, and other organic substances—probably as capable of infect- ing as threads charged with vaccine lymph. When watery vapour near a suppurating focus was condensed, it was found to be strongly charged with irregular corpuscles resembling dried pus; and Eiselt, of Prague, found small cells, like pus-eeUs, in the air of a ward where epidemic ophthalmia was raging. " When commenting on the spread of puerperal fever, M. Trousseau says:—' These germs may not be developed as readily in all patients, because the conditions of their reception vary infinitely. Some patients, like certain earths, may not receive certain germs. The wind may spread the same seed widely over a country, and yet the grain will not spring up everywhere alike. Here the soil may be too wet; there too dry; here other germs have grown up, and stifled the new seed. Just so is it with morbid germs and ferments. They, individually, require conditions fa- vorable to their development.' " Carrying on the analogy between puerperal fever and purulent infection in the various forms which contribute so large a share to the excessive mortality after surgical operations, and applying the knowledge, for which we are indebted to Pasteur, of the presence in the atmosphere of organic germs which will grow, develope, and multiply, under favorable conditions, it is easy to understand that some germs find their most appropriate nutriment in the secretions from wounds, or in pus, and that they so modify it as to convert it into a poison when absorbed—or that the germs.hepoet on suegeey. 198 after development, multiplication, and' death, may form a putrid infecting ■ matter—or that they may enter tlic blood and develope themselves, efl'ecfc- • ing in the process deadly changes in the circulating fluid. " That these low forms of animal life may seriously affect the blood of the higher orders of animals is clearly proved by the recent researches of Davaine, who has furnished us with the first well-established example of a disease of the blood duo to the presence of inferior beings whicli are capable of development and multiplication in the torrent of the circulation. These creatures {Bacteria) differ from the whole class of infusoria which form in putrefied matter, as they disappear completely as soon as putre- faction of the blood commences. The Bacteria are rapid consumers of oxygen, and when they exist in the blood they absorb the greater portion of the oxygen furnished by respiration, and thus hinder the combustion of all the effete and used-up substances wliich ought to be eliminated from the body. The blood, instead of nourishing the body, nourishes tL parasites. Inoculation of animals with fresh blood which contains them leads to their development in the blood of the inoculated animal, not in any special organ. They consist of minute, straight, extremely fine fila- ments, varying iu length from four to twelve thousandths of a millimetre, and have no spontaneous movement whatever. When the blood putrefies, they become flexed in different directions, and then break up and disappear. " M. Davaine was at first disposed to consider them as belonging to the filiform infusoria, the Bacteria or Vibriones, from which they differed only in the absence of movements. In subsequent observations, however, he found a great number of these corpuscles of far greater length than that assigned to Bacteria or even Vibriones. He now believes that they cannot be propei'ly classed with any of the known species; he considers them to be a well-defined species, resembling the filiform protozoa by their mode of generation and propagation, the filamentous conferva in form, appear- ance, and dimensions, and certain ferments by the phenomena which they induce. M. Davaine proposes to term them provisionally merely bacterides. There are considerable varieties in the size of the bacterides observable, without any condition of the inoculated animals explaining tlie fact. Their number also greatly varies, from myriads found in some instances, to theii' rare occurrence in others. A very peculiar condition in animals affected with carbuncular disease is the disposition which exists for the globules of blood to become agglutinated to each other, so as to present little islets in the serum. When the blood infected with bacterides begins to putrefy, these agglutinated globules separate again. The blood of the capillaries is far richer in bacterides than is that of the large vessels; but they have not been found to have passed from tlie mother to the foetus, although existing in prodigious numbers in the placenta. When putre- faction has commenced and the bacterides can be no longer recognised, the blood ceases to possess the power of inoculating the carbuncular disease, although, if used in sufficient quantity, it may still cause the death of tlic animal, with other accompanying phenomena. The carbuncular disease, or splenic apoplexy, as observed in sheep, and which first led to the dis- covery of the bacterides in tlio blood, can only be transmitted by inoculation when the blood is fresh. The power which the blood possesses to com- municate tlio disease continues for a longer or shorter time after death,MORTALITY AFTER OPEEATIONS. 199 accordino- to the temperature, this faculty disappearing during the heat of summer°in less than two days. Dried blood may retain the power of propa"-ation providing it be rapidly desiccated prior to putrefaction; and it is Inchly probable that dried bacterides transmit the disease in Hocks of sheep through the medium of the respiratory organs. The disease may, too, be transmitted by the agency of the digestive organs, though less certainly than by subcutaneous inoculation. The duration of the period of incubation, after inoculation with fresh blood, has in Davaine's experi- ments varied with the size of the animal, but the rapidity of the occurrence of death has not been found to be in proportion to the number of bacterides produced. They multiply within a very few hours after they first appear, but cease to multiply after the death of the infected animal. Inoculated rabbits lived from eighteen to seventy-seven hours, a mean of forty hours ; but only five hours after the bacterides appeared, thus giving thirty-five hours as the mean period of incubation. The blood in the heart and large vessels was found firmly coagulated." Mr. Wells then alludes to the recent researches on trichinosis, to the dependence of various skin diseases upon the growth of vegetable parasites, and to the production of measles by the inoculation or inhalation of the fungi given off from, mouldy straw or linseed meal. He adds :— " But the real practical end of all our work—the prevention and cure of disease—the lowering of excessive mortality—must not be lost sight of. And here, fortunately, the recent experiments of PoUi, of Milan, on the action of sulphurous acid and the alkaline and earthy sulphites, open to us a wide field for inquiry, brightened by cheerful rays of hope." These researches having been already noticed in the Year-Book for 1862 (p. 215), it is only necessary to remark that—" (i) the sulphites should be given as long as possible after food, unless it is especially desired to neutralize the fermentative action of the gastric and pancreatic juice; and (2) that nothing containing citric, tartaric, malic, or oxalic acid, should be taken after them, as these acids decompose the sulphites and hyposulphites, and set the sulphurous acid free. But acetic acid does not decompose these salts." " The sulphite of magnesia in the solid form answers well for internal administration.* It contains more sulphurous acid than other sulphites, and is not disagreeable. The sulphite of soda is disagreeable, easily decom- poses, and is chiefly useful in solution for lotions or enemas. The sulphites of potash and ammonia are too disagreeable and changeable for medical use. The hyposulphite of soda is not very disagreeable; its solubility makes it convenient for administration, but it is more adapted for pro- phylactic use than for severe cases, its action being much slower than that of the sulphites, as it must be converted into a nascent sulphite before the wi-shed-for effect can be obtained. " Some cases of septicajmia in which I have given the hyposulphite of soda having been already brought before the profession, I will now only add, that the effects convinced me that it is a remedy of great value, well worthy of a general and extended trial. But I trust that no such exagge- rated expectations will be entertained of its value, or of that of any other remedy, as could possil)ly lead any one. to neglect those leading principles of sanitary science which should govern the size and construction of our * Up to three or four drachms daily.—T. W,200 REPOKT ON SURGEttY. hospitals, or those lessons so recently taught by physiological chemistry which confirm those sanitary principles—which teach us how easily our patients may bo poisoned by any want of that attention which should always secure the most scrupulous cleanliness and purity of everything surrounding them—and which prove that a knowledge of principles and a practical supervision of details must be combined to enable us to recognise, avoid, prevent, or counteract the causes of excessive mortalily." J. Pac/et on scarlatina after operations (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, ii, 237).—Mr. Paget, referring, in the course of a clinical lecture, to a case of lithotomy recently under his care in the hospital, said :—" The boy lately operated on for stone had scarlatina; at least, an eruption exactly like that of scarlatina appeared over nearly the whole surface on the day after the operation, with general febrile disturbance. Two days later, it began to fade ; and in a few days had disappeared, and left him in about the same state that we may suppose he would have been in if no such illness had occurred. All went on well for a month; the wound was nearly healed ; and he was deemed convalescent, when, perhaps in consequence of exposure to cold, he had severe pain in passing urine, and evacuated with it a considerable quantity of blood from the kidneys, and tenacious mucus. Two days after this, he had sore throat; then an eruption, like scarlet fever, again appeared; it continued for three days, and was suc- ceeded by desquamation. The urine in about ten days had gradually regained its natural condition, and he again seemed well. But now whooping-cough set in, and again retarded, though it did not finally prevent, recovery. " If I had never seen a case similar to this, I should have hesitated to call it scarlatina ; for the symptoms of the first attack were very incom- plete, and those of the second were unusual and disorderly. But I believe the case was really one of scarlatina, modified by the circumstances in Avhich it occurred ; and that it may be reckoned with other similar cases in illustration of some interesting general principles. " About this time last year, when scarlatina was very prevalent, I saw six cases after opei-ations in private practice; I have notes of four more that occurred either before or since ; and I have heard of many more. By some, these cases may be supposed to have been only casual coincidences of scarlatina with surgical diseases ; but, if they were so, we ought to find a proportionate number of cases among surgical patients not operated on. But this does not happen. In private practice, I do not remember to have seen scarlatina supervene in any surgical cases, except those in which operations had been performed ; and, in hospital practice, I doubt whether it is much more frequent among all the other patients taken together than it is in those who have been operated on. I cannot, therefore, doubt that there is something in the consequences of surgical operations which makes the patients peculiarly susceptible of the influence of the scarlatina poison. And, together with this susceptibility, we may observe that the disease undergoes in them certain modifications, especially in the period of in- cubation, which is much shortened. In all the ten cases that I have noted, the eruption appeared within a week after the operation; and in eight of them, within three days after it; namely, in two cases, on the first in three, on the second; and in three, on the thud day. OtherSCAELATINA AFTER OPERATIONS. 301 deviations from the typical course of scarlatina were, that in some of the cases the eruption came out over the whole surface at once, and on the limbs more fully than on the face and chest: in some, there was no sore- throat ; in others, no desquamation. " The cases are not numerous enough to determine the import of these variable deviations from the type of scarlatina; but that in which all of them, whether complete or incomplete in other characters, agreed, namely, the very early period after the operation at which the rash appeared, deserves particular notice. It adds to the evidence, that the appearance of scarlatina is in some way connected with the early consequences of operations. If it were not so, and if patients after operations had only the same liability as others, there would be no reason why the eruption should appear early, rather than late, after the operation ; but, so far as I have seen, it always appears early—always within the first week. " Two explanations may be offered of this fact. Either the condition induced in a patient by a surgical operation is one that gives a peculiar liability to the reception of an epidemic or contagious morbid poison, and any one oi' these, being imbibed immediately after the operation, produces its specific effect in much less than the usual period of incubation ; or else those who suffer with scarlatina within a few days after operations had previously imbibed the poison, but would not have manifested its effects so soon, if at all, unless their health had been exhausted or disturbed. The second of these explanations appears rather the more probable ; for it is in accordance with what has been observed when many persons have been exposed to the contagion of fever, and some have been afterwards ex- hausted by fatigue or otherwise. These have had fever; while those who rested after exposure have escaped it. " But, whatever explanation may be given, the fact of peculiar liability to scarlatina after operations seems certain, and may be important in re- lation both to the pathology of the disease and to the risks of surgery. In one of the cases which I have seen, it was fatal; in another, it was followed by fatal pyaemia; and I think it not improbable that, in some cases, deaths occurring with obscure symptoms, within two or three days after operations, have been due to the scarlet-feyer poison hindered, in some way, from its usual progress." J. Harrinson records a case of gunshot wound of the foot, followed by an erythematous rash over the whole body ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, ii, 373). —The accident occurred on July 2nd; on the evening of the 8th, there was great prostration ; the patient wandered at times, but was quite con- scious when roused ; the pulse was rapid and feeble ; the abdomen tense and tympanitic ; he had hiccough ; a dry and brown tongue; occasional vomiting and purging of dark matter ; scanty and high-coloured urine. The wound was sloughy and very offensive. There was no swelling of the foot, nor evidence of any inflammation of the absorbents or veins ; but the whole surface of the body presented a red appearance, as if covered with the rash of scarlet fever. There was no sore-throat; nor was there any scarlet fever in the neighbourhood. On the 12th violent diarrhoea ensued, and was followed by death ; the skin retained its red appearance, though it assumed a darker hue, to the very last. Dr.Wilks remarks (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, ii, 428),—" The numerous202 bbpout on surgery. instances which have como before mo load me to believe that the fact must bo well known to every surgeon. Ever since I liavo known tlic practice of Guy's Hospital, I have constantly visited the surgical wards to give an opinion about a rash in a patient who has recently undergone an operation ; and this rash generally resembles scarlatina. It is, also, well known, that puerperal women are often said to die of scarlatina taken soon after labour; and here it may be suggested, whether the rash be not due to some special condition of the system existing at that time. I do not allude to eruptions which may be seen in cases of pyaemia and other blood- poisons ; for they are generally of an erythematous or roseolous kind; whilst the scarlatina-like rash occurs soon after operations, and before there is any evidence of pyaemia." G-. May, case of scalp-wound, followed by scarlet rash (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, ii, 428). J. Edmunds, scarlatinoid disease after operations (ibid., p. 453). J. Symc, excision of the scapula (Edinburgh, Edmouston and Douglas).—In this work three cases are recorded, which show that the entire scapula, either alone, or together with the arm, may be removed without much dilReulty or loss of blood; that the wound may lieal quickly and soundly; and that the arm, if preserved, may be strong and useful. Discussion on the preliminary ligatwe of arteries ('G-az. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 772).—M. Verneuil, after giving an account of a case in which he hud removed a parotid tumour, called the attention of the Surgical Society of Paris to the question of preliminary ligatures. Oases undoubtedly occur in which death is caused during or soon after the operation by bsemorrhage; in one related by M. Michaux (of Louvain), the removal of a naso- pharyngeal polypus was followed by such formidable bleeding, that that surgeon considered it necessary to resort at once to transfusion. As to the objections made to preliminary ligature of the common carotid, M. Verneuil remarked, that if it prolongs the first part of the operation, it shortens the latter part, and that if in some cases there has been free bleeding after it, there would have been enormous without it. He thinks that the questions, whether the ligature could be replaced by some other means, such as mediate or immediate compression, temporary ligature, ligatm-e of the external carotid, and to what extent ligature of the com- mon carotid is in itself dangerous, require further investigation. After sketching the history of the operation (ib., p. 633), he asks—(i) Ought the preliminary ligature to be totally abandoned ? (2) Are the advant.iges less than the dangers ? (3) What are the advantages, and what the dangers ? (4) Instead of permanently arresting the circulation, ought we to stop it only for a time ? (5) If so, what method should we use ? (6) It cannot be denied that ligature of the common carotid is attended by special dangers: can it be replaced by ligature of the external carotid ? (7) Admitting that the preliminary ligature of the common carotid is to be rejected, should we also abandon that of the subclavian, axillary, or iliacs, to which the same objections do not apply ? (8) Ought we not to distinguish ligature of the vessel in the very wound from that where the artery is exposed at a considerable distance nearer the heart ? M. Eichet urged (ibid., p. 788) that the advantages of this preliminaryPEELIMINARy LIGATURES. 203 proceeding were for the most part illusory; that ligature of the common carotid was tedious, difficult, and dangerous ; that at all events it could only be applicable to cases of cancer, with which he preferred not to meddle. M. Chassaignac recommended that if the ligature were passed round the vessel, it should not be tied until required. M. Verneuil replied that the latter plan involves as much danger and does not present the same advantages as at once tying the thread, and that it is in cancer that this proceeding is specially required. He has collected twenty-five clear cases of preliminary ligature and five of ligature during the operation; of this number nine died, four from causes quite indepen- dent of the ligature, and of the rest two only appeared to him to be certainly owing to that proceeding. He is therefore of opinion, that the preliminary ligature of the carotid should be used in certain serious cases, for example, when the tumour is of enormous size, when it is very vascular, when it is seated in a difficult region traversed by important organs, and when the patient is much debilitated. The common trunk should be tied, when there is reason to fear a wound of the internal carotid ; in other cases the external division should be ligatured if possible. Ligature of the common carotid 2^er se, exposes the patient to serious danger, but on the other hand it is attended by decided advantages ; it renders possible, or even comparatively easy, operations which would be almost impracti- cable without it. M. Eichet (ib., 1864, p. 27) urges that Verneuil's statistics are too favorable; that ligature of the carotid followed by a serious operation cannot be more favorable than ligature of the carotid jjer se; that in the latter cases there has been a mortality of 25 per cent., and that therefore in the former there will be at least one death in four cases. As to tying the external carotid, he thinks that when it is possible, the tumour must be small and the operation unnecessary, and that when it would be use- ful, the tumour is large and the ligature extremely difficult or impossible. G-. B. A. Hanuschke, twenty-five years' experience in operative surgery, (Leipz., Engclmann). C. Bojanus, cases from the hospital of Nischuy-Nowgorod, 1855 to 1859; a contribution to operative surgery, (Dorpat, Gliiser). J. 1\ Heyfelder, report on operations performed at the St.Petersburg "Arbeiter-Hospital" in 1862 ('Berl. Klin. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 36). MATERIA CHIRUEGICA AND THE MEDICAL TREATMENT OP SURGICAL OASES. Dr. Heineke adduces two examples ('Greifsw. Med. Beitr.' ii; "Keport of the Soc. of Baltic Phys.," p. 12) for the purpose of showing the practical value of measurements of the temper attire* in surgical diseases. He first points out, that in certain cases of articular inflammation, the use of the thermometer enables the surgeon to decide, whether there is already caries or not; remittent fever with the thermometer ranging in the morning between 37-5° and 38-5° C, and in the evening between 38-5° and 40" C, proves the existence of articular caries, provided otlier causes can be excluded. Again, measuring the temperature is of use, when an * Vide ' Ycnr-Tlook* for 1862, pp. 183—201.—T. W,REPOET ON SURGERY. 204 injured limb is enclosed in a starch bandage. So long as the latter is firmly applied to the extremity, the surgeon may rest satisfied with the conclusion to be drawn from the condition of the peripheral (uncovered) portion. When, however, the bandage becomes looser, sudden increase of the temperature to the extent of half a degree Centigrade or more (the morning temperature being of course always compared with that of the next morning, and the evening with that of the next evening), which cannot be referred to any other cause, is a most certain sign, that some intercurrent affection, erysipelas, phlegmon, or periostitis, is attacking the extremity. The value of this indication is obvious, for it is well known that these diseases are not always announced by local pain. Prof. Nussbaxm, tlie prolongation of chloroform-ancestliesia for several hours hy means of the sulcutaneous injection of morphia (' Wien. Med. Halle,' 1863, p. 432).—Of several eases recorded, it may suffice to quote the following:—The upper jaw was excised for cancer, and owing to the skin being implicated, a flap had to be transplanted from the temple. A grain of the acetate of morphia was injected under the skin, while the patient was still under the influence of the chloroform. He slept for eight hours, during which time the breathing was perfectly quiet, the pulse regular, and the skin completely anaesthetic. It is noteworthy that the same dose had been administered in the same way some days previously, and had scarcely induced sleep, far less anaesthesia. Possibly this combination of narcotic means may prove of use in tetanus, in certain neuroses, &c. Dr. Burow has found that gypsum hardens much sooner when a weak solution of alum (about a teaspoonful of alum to the pint) is used instead of water ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 207). R. Gieseler on the use of quinine in surgery ('Arch. fUr klin. Chir.'iv, 550). M. 0. Eeveil on per- manganate of potash and on its use as a disinfectant ('Arch. Gen. de Med.,' 1864, i, 21). M. Soupart, description of some new instruments ('Bull. Beige.,' 1863, p. 628). Lutter, instrument for cutting plaster bandages ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 12). J. H. Packard, 'Manual of Minor Surgery,' (pp. 228, Philad., Lippincott & Co.). PLASTIC StTEGEET. B. Lmigeniech on a new mode of performing rhinoplasty (' Berl. Klin. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 13).—Very satisfactory results may be gained by the usual operation, provided the nasal processes of the upper jaw still remain, only the ossa nasi, skin, and cartilages being deficient. But when the whole of the bones and soft parts have been destroyed, both the Indian and the Italian methods are quite insufficient. The new nose, however large and perfectly formed, sinks gradually, as time advances, to the level of the face, and ultimately projects no farther than the original stump. -1 1 r With the view of rendering the new nose firmer, and, it possible, ol giving it a bony foundation, Langenbeck tried in 1859 periosteal rhino- plasty i. e. transplantation of a frontal flap including both skin and peri- cranium ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1859, No. 48). From five cases thus treated by him, he draws the conclusion that the nose so formed is really much firmer, and that by ossification of the transplanted periosteum more orIIHINOPLASTY. 205 less perfect bone may be formed. Yet even this method fails to form a sufficiently prominent nose, when the nasal processes of the upper jaw are absent. Oilier, in 1861, combined periosteal rhinoplasty with trans- plantation of the remains of the nasal bones and of a portion of the nasal process. The author does not approve of this proceeding; he thinks it best to leave the remains of the ossa nasi, however large they may be, where they already are. The object is not to produce a bony apex to the nose, but to support its bridge and root, and it is in this very position that any remains of the nasal bones must be found. It would not be very difficult to transplant with the frontal flap a sufficiently large portion of the external table of the os frontis, but the fear of exciting phlebitis or purulent meningitis has prevented Langenbeck from carrying out the idea. He has accordingly followed another plan—that of transplanting a relatively small frontal flap over a 'previously erected bony framework. To explain his method more clearly, it will be advisable to preface a few remarks on the pathological condition. In rare cases both ossa nasi are destroyed, and then the nasal processes of the maxilla are usually more or less defective. Earely do the latter parts preserve their perfect in- tegrity and normal projection, when the nasal bones, septum, and vomer, have been entirely lost. Generally, indeed, the nasal bones are only par- tially wanting, and their remains are depressed towards the nares. Thus th? stump becomes flattened, a change that becomes more decided in proportion to the destruction of the nasal processes. The ulcerative process by which the nose is destroyed, is mostly very chronic, requiring even ten or twenty years for its cure. Now it is known, as, indeed, the often-cited osseous depositions on the tibia in chronic ulcers of the leg show, that the irritation excited during a series of years by such sores very constantly induces the formation of fresh bone, and this process may frequently be proved in respect to the nose. Ossifications form from the edges of the apertura pyriformis, and often from the whole inner surface of the nares; they materially diminish the aperture, and sometimes fill the cavity, so that there only remains a central canal as large as a quill. A species of regeneration of the ossa nasi occurs in rare cases, an osseous bridge forming between the nasal processes, no doubt owing to gradual ossification of the granulations. The suri-ounding skin is di'agged towards the middle line by the contraction of the cicatrices. Langenbeck observed these particularities, which had been hitherto over- looked, for the first time whilst performing rhinoplasty on the living patient; he has since, however, found the same alterations in nearly forty crania existing in different collections. No new bone had been formed in some cases, in which the osseous framework of the nose had been entirely destroyed, but as the details of the morbid process had generally not been recorded, no certain explanation for these exceptions can be given. Langenbeck suspects, however, that either the integument had not been destroyed but had been retracted into the nares, or that the morbid process had rapidly destroyed the nose and then been immediately arrested by treatment. Langenbeck's operation is adapted for the ordinary cases in which there are some remains of the ossa nasi, and in which new bone has been206 llEl'ORT ON SUHGEBY. deposited along the margins of the apertura pyriformis. It may be divided into three portions :— 1. A vertical incision from the nasal process of the os frontis along tbe middle line divides the skin covering the cicatricial stump into two halves, each of which is dissected up towards the cheek. Any remains of the ossa nasi or of the nasal processes, and the portions of newly formed bone arc now exposed, 2. A piece of bone, —%"' broad, is partially separated from each side of the apertura pyriformis by means of a fine saw. The length of this piece must depend on the skin which it will have to support. The bone is then carefully raised by an elevator, leaving it attached to the upper jaw near the lower margin of the apertura pyriformis. Thus a bony framework is prepared, to which the skin dissected off in the first part of the operation is attached by thread. Any remains of the nasal bones, which may have sunk towards the nasal cavity, are separated on either side by the saw, the incision passing from the nasal processes perpendicu- larly towards the frontal bone, and the elevator is again used to raise them to a sufficient height. The suture between the ossa nasi and os frontis forms a hinge on which the former may be moved. 3. Transplantation of a frontal flap, including, if necessary, a piece of pericranium. This operation presents the advantage that a nose quite of normal prominence is produced with very little expenditure of material. For whilst rhinoplasty by means of the frontal skin alone requires a flap at least 3" broad, the latter measured in Langenbeck's case only an inch. Four months later no change had taken place in the prominence of the nose. Langenbeck has no doubt, that this method may be employed with advantage in raising sunken noses. P. Bert on animal grafting ('Arch. Gen. de Mdd.,' 1864, i, 207). J. Hamilton on the restoration of a lost nose (pp. 58, Dublin, Fannin and Co.). WOUNDS. A. J. Jobert on reunion in surgery (pp. 700, Paris, J. B. Baillicre). A. Pribram has pubhshed ('Prag. Med. Wocheuschr.,' 1864, p. 23) three cases from Professor Blazina's clinic, in which men had been bitten by men ; twice a finger, once a thumb, was the part aflected. One case alone ended fatally. All three presented the same peculiarities in their course:— 1. In all, after an apparently trifling injury, there occurred morti- fication of the whole finger or thumb. 2. The gangrenous part separated at the metacarpo-phalangeal joint during the fourth week. 3. The rest of the extremity suflPered only in so far that the morbid pro- cess extended along the subcutaneous cellular tissue, in the form of ichorous phlegmon, in one case to the wrist, in the other two along the back of the hand and of the forearm as far as the elbow; the disease did not spread beneath the aponeuroses, and in the latter two cases the skin became gan- grenous at a relatively late period.DIPHTHERITIC WOUNDS. 207 4. As to the general symptoms, the great exhaustion at an early period is worth notice; one patient indeed died from marasmus. J. Kutcliinson on diphtheritic or pellicular toowids ('Lond. Hosp. Eep.,' i, 94).—"Amongst the numerous instances of phageda3na which we have had duruig the past year, not a few have presented the peculiar condition known as ' diphtheria of wounds.' It has long heen well recognised in France and some other parts of the Continent, that wounds may become diphtheritic, and you will find allusions to such cases in the monographs on diphtheria published a few years ago by the New Sydenham Society. Little, if any, attention has, however, been given to the subject in England. " The first instance of it which I ever saw occurred under very curious cu'cumstances. A young gentleman, the son of a surgeon, had a com- pound fracture of his leg. The accident occurred in a country lane, and he was carried into an adjacent farmhouse, where he remained throughout. I saw him an hour after the accident, and, assisted by his father, suc- ceeded, after sawing off the end of the tibia, in reducing the displacement. The wound was large, but there was not much contusion. All went on well for some time. At the end of a fortnight, however, the wound assumed a condition of which previously I had not seen any parallel (I have often seen such lately). The edges swelled and became very (ede- matous, whilst the entire granulating surface was covered by yellow, semi-transparent, gelatinous lymph. This we used to scrape away and peel off in large flakes, but it was very rapidly reproduced. We employed various local remedies, and in the course of about ten days the wound was again healthy. Now, the interesting facts as to diphtheria in this case are these :—This young gentleman had himself suffered from diphtheria of the pharynx, very severely, about six months before his accident, and he was still feeble from its effects. One of his brothers had died of it. Further, in the farmhouse to which he was carried, diphtheria had occurred only a few weeks before, and one of the children had died of it; so that we had two sources of possible contamination. You must note that he had every sanitary advantage—a large bedroom, in excellent air, and the freest ventilation which open windows could afford (it was mid- summer). " In some of the many cases of diphtheria of wounds which we have recently had in this hospital, the disease has been associated with hospital phagedajna, but in many it has not. In some we have had most interest- ing opportunities for noting the distinctive features of the two affections, for different parts of the same wound have shown the two in perfectly cha- racteristic stages. The pellicle of lymph differs much in thickness in different cases; in some it is very thick, but soft and gelatinous, in others it is thin, but tough and coherent. I have often peeled off portions as large as halfpence. " During an entire year, we have had hospital phagedoena in certain parts of the hospital, and throughout the whole of this period we have never had a case of it in Gloucester Ward. Yet, several instances of diphtheria of wounds have occurred in Gloucester Ward. None of these have, however, been as severe as some which I have seen in the other208 UEPOET ON SURGBRY, wards. The worst cases have certainly occurred in association witli phagedsena. " None of my own patients have suffered from diphtheria of the pliarynx at the same time that their wounds were affected by it; but in one case which my colleague Mr. Maunder requested me to see with him, both the throat and the wound were simultaneously affected. J have had several cases of diphtheria of the throat occurring in patients who were inmates of wards in which were others suffering from diphthe- ritic wounds. "In some conditions of wounds, a pellicular exudation takes place, without any swelling, and under conditions very different from those which we are describing. A gentleman, now under my care on account of an ulcer on one leg as large as a halfpenny, and in a remarkably irritable condition, now and then presents this state of things. I have peeled from his sore a continuous layer about as thick as white kid leather, and quite coherent. This membrane will cover the entire sore, so that every trace of granulation is concealed. There is no swelling of the edges of the wound, and no tendency to phagedsena. " As regards the treatment of diphtheritic wounds, the most essential point is to remove the pellicle. It must be scraped away everj' few hours as fast as formed. Nitrate of silver may be applied, or a solution of Condy's fluid, or continued irrigation with warm water. On the whole, I prefer irrigation; but, to be successful, it must be profuse, and the pel- licle must be very patiently and completely and frequently removed. Repeatedly I have seen no good obtained from irrigation for several days, on account of neglect to scrape off the pellicle. I have usually prescribed a mixture containing chlorate of potash and tincture of bark ; but as we have always devoted much attention to local treatment, it would be unsafe to infer that these remedies had any material share in the cure. " In several cases in which the wounds were on the hand or forearm, I have ventured at once to discharge the patient from the hospital when the diphtheritic inflammation made its appearance. In two such—an Irishwoman, from whose hand two fingers had been amputated after a severe crush, and a man from Mellish Ward, with a severe wound of the forearm—a cure resulted very quickly after leaving the hospital. In several others I am not acquainted with the ultimate result, but I believe that in no instance did the disease afterwards advance." Dr. Klotz has employed, instead of Serres-fines, a kind of clasp for the purpose of uniting wounds ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 261). J. K. Haschek on punctured wounds (' Wien. Med. Halle,' 1864, p. 22, &c.). BTTEKS AKD SCALDS. M. Lemlert, the treatment of hums hy phospliorus {' Gaz. Med. de Lyon,' 1864, No. 10).—The author thinks that the special danger of these injuries consists in a part of the phosphorus remaining in the wound, where it gradually oxidizes ; the acid thus formed causes great ii'ritation both of the wound and surroundmg parts. He recommends painting the14 NELATON^S PllOBE. SOO jjiirt with ether immediately after the injury, the apphcation being re- peated till luminous exhalations are no longer given off in the dark. J. Iliitcliinson, the internal administration of lelladonna in cases of severe hum ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1864, i, 10).—Experimental physio- logists have recommended belladonna for use in the treatment of burns, in the belief that it diminishes that state of the nervous functions under whicli reflex inflammations are likely to be originated. They assert, on the otlier hand, that of all remedies opium is the one most powerful in in- creasing this peculiar state, and that it ought consequently to be avoided. In clinical practice, however, we believe that this opinion is wholly disre- garded, and that opium is the form of anodyne most commonly resorted to in these cases. Yet it is generally suspected that the causes of death after burns are, in a majority of instances, connected with reflex inflam- mations, c. q. ulcers of the intestine, pneumonia, &c. In a series of cases under Mr. Hutchinson's care in the London Hospital during the last six months, the belladonna treatment has been tried. The result appears to have been fairly satisfactory. Mr. Hutchinson considers that the cases in which the remedy had seemed to be most useful, were those of children in whom general febrile symptoms, attended with restlessness, loss of appetite, &c., had set in without any local complications. In several of these, there could be no mistake that the feverish state had passed away quickly and very satisfactorily under the use of belladonna. In no case had he witnessed any ill results. If the burn itself was very painful, and the patient unable to get sleep on account of the pain, then the belladonna seemed comparatively incflicacious to procure ease, and morphia was far more efficient. As a rule, no opium had been given to the cases treated by belladonna ; but in a few, and those chiefly in adults, it had been found requisite to give an occasional night dose. Possibly more benefit might have been obtained had the administration of the belladonna been pushed to larger doses. The usual amount given had been a third of a grain three times a day. GUNSHOT WOUNDS. p. H. Hamilton on the use of Nelaton's prole (' Amer. Med. Times,' 1863, ii, 288).—"This excellent little instrument has not been brought into the general use and appreciation to which it is already entitled; indeed, its value was fully declared, when on its first trial, and in the person of the illustrious Garibaldi, a problem was solved, which had puzzled the most skilful European surgeons. The records of this hospital show several cases where Nelaton's probe has discovered the presence of lead, and, in one case, of iron, where their existence was never suspected, certainly not known. Thus a grapeshot, weighing 2 oz.,was discoved, and re- moved by Dr. .lames B. Cutter, from the calf of the leg—the patient pre- viously averring that the ball had gone ' clean through.' In tliis case, the iron being rusted left upon the probe a brownish stain. In the following case the instrument discovered the presence of lead. M. G—, private ytli Connecticut Vols., was admitted with a gunshot wound of the left leg, a short distance above the ankle-joint. His medical attendants upon the field had informed him that the ball had merely glanced across, bub hadREPORT ON SURGERY. 210 not entered the bone. The patient was firm in his belief that there \va-, no ball in the wound. Three months after tlie receipt of the injury, wlien under my care, at the MeDougall General Hospital, the wound showcl no signs of healing; and this fact, together witli tlie thin, dark-coloured discharge, led mo to suspect the presence of some foreign body, other than dead bone, notwithstanding the statements of the patient to the contrary. I therefore introduced one of Ndlaton'a i)robes, and carefully explored the cavity. Removing the probe, and washing off the blood, I found the presence of lead indicated by several marks on the porcelain. Soon after I enlarged the wound, and, cutting down into the tibia on its outer sur- face, found a small opening into the bono, where the ball had entered. With some difficulty, I then extracted from the substance of the bone, where it was firmly impacted, an entire MInie rifle ball, slightly flattened at its apex. I also removed some pieces of dead bone. After this the wound proceeded to heal kindly, and was soon entirely closed. Necrosis had already occurred iu consequence of the presence of the foreign body, but by its removal the further extension of the necrosis was prevented. These cases would scarcely, in themselves, be of sufficient importance to merit a sjiecial record, were it not that they, as well as any others, serve to illustrate the great value of the instrument. The negative evidence furnished by the probe is often as valuable as the positive, for if, upon a thorough and skilful examination of the wound, we fail in obtaining the evidence of lead or iron upon the probe, we are far more confident in asserting that there is no such foreign substance remaining, than we should be after such an examination with the common gunshot probe. After withdrawing the probe, the blood, pus, or other matter should be removed, by carefully passing the porcelain ball through a basin of clean water three or four times; when the marks, if there be any, of lead or rusted iron will be left plainly defined upon the surface of the bulb. Of course, these marks should be carefully removed before using the probe again." J. Moses, swrgical notes of cases of gunsliot injuries occurring during tlie advance of the army of tlie Cumherland in tlie summer of 1863 ('Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. xlvii, p. 324).—In regard to wounds of the knee-joint,the author writes,—"It seemed to me that the patients bad not so much died fi-om the injury itself as from timid surgery. A wounded joint within forty-eight hours begins to swell, and becomes tense, shinj', and painful, and soon fluctuation is felt within the capsule and exteriorly. This may be delayed for several days by cold applications. Matters go on from bad to worse; there is discharge from one or both wounds, but which does not relieve the distension. The general system finally succumbs, and after death we find the joint cavity and all the tissues above and below the knee with burrowing abscesses. It is a rule of surgery to give free exit to pus wherever it is detected, and more especially when beneath fibrous and resisting tissues. Now, if we apply this good precept to the knee-joint as soon as we find distinct fluctuation, shall we not save the increase and spread of the pyogenesis ? Shall we fear to freely open the knee-joint ? Arc we not told that shell wounds tearing open the joint are less dangerous than gunshot or punctured wounds ? Are not amputations and resections at the joints abundantly211 INJURIES OF THE KNEE-JOINT. successful ? By such reasoning I had determined as soon as opportunity presented, to risk a trial to save a limb, and this occurred." Sero-t. Haynie received, on June 6tli, a wound ol' tlie left knee-joint; the biiil struck the centre of the patella, and passed through, comminuting it; it then passed outward and backward, involving the articular surface of the outer troclianter of the femur, and tearing the capsular and lateral ligaments. "Ho was brought to the field hospital immediately, and soon after seen by several surgeons. I recommended that the track of the wound should be laid open and a free incision made into the joint, the limb firmly fixed in a good position, and cold irrigation applied. Tliis was done effectually as soon as swelling and redness appeared, and the fragments of patella removed at various intervals. No pus was allowed to accumulate or burrow. Cold or warm water dressings were used, as most comfortable to the sensations of the patient. Everything progressed most favorable, and when I left the post,* Sept. 14th, the wound was nearly closed, and the patient had some motion of the joint." Four other cases are related. The author adds " ten cases of wounds of the knee- joint were admitted (all except Sergt. Haynie) into Hospital No. ], from the several skirmishes of the advancing army. Of these three died with- out operation ; one died after amputation ; one died of secondary hsemorrhage from a branch of the popliteal artery; three were nearly recovered when I left the post, Sept. 15th, and two remained with fair chances of ultimate recovery."f Thus we have one half of the cases which will in all probability be saved with useful limbs and various amounts of motion in the joints. These cases were treated under the most favorable circumstances ; the physical condition of the men was most excellent, and soon after the reception of the injury, they were taken to well-appointed hospitals, sur- rounded with comfort, and with every luxury of diet at command, and skilful surgical attendance, S. W. Mitchell, G. B. Morehouse, and W. W. Keen, report on re- flex paralysis as a result of rjunshot xooxmids ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1864, i, 259, &c.).—" The vai'ious effects produced upon the nervous system by gunshot wounds have received, it seems to us, far less attention and far less study than their interest and importance appear to call for. Among them are some which must clearly be classified with the results illustrated by the cases reported in this paper; but there are also others which are far more numerous, in fact very common, and which are signally exempli- fied on every battle-field. These have been more or less vaguely treated of as shock, commotion, stupor, &c. The larger part of those who receive * "Nov. 25th.—1 have since leai-ned that he went on furlough, the wound having entirely closed." t In a later paper (1. c, vol, 48, p. 362) the author states that both these cases iiltimatoly sank. He there says, " While I liave lost confidence in the possibility of saving gunshot wounds of the knee-joint, involving fractures of the condyles of the femur or head of the tibia, under the usual circumstances of bustle and confusion of tlie field, and repeated removals of wounded in ambulances to the rear, yet I still firmly believe that many cases can be saved." The conditions of success are that such cases should, immediately after injury, be placed in a hospital from which they would not be moved for sixty days, and that they should be provided with comforts and skilful surgical care. IIlKPOllT ON SUllOKliy. flosh wounds involving no ini]JOrtiinfc organ, are but little all'ected at the time, or may even be unconscious of having been hit, and at all events exhibit no well-marked immediate constitutiona} disturbance. In other cases, and particularly in wounds of graver nature, the patient instantly falls senseless, and so remains during a few minutes or many hours, re- viving again either completely, or suffering from a contiimed state of de- pression known as the result of sliock, and marked by the usual features of great weakness, feeble circulation, pallor, &c. In other cases these last- named symptoms come on at once, and without the intervention or accompaniment of unconsciousness. These very interesting states ot system may be due, it seems to us, either to an arrest or enfeeblement of the heart's action through the mediation of the medulla oblongata and the pneumogastric nerves, or to a general functional paralysis of the nerve centres, both spinal aud cerebral, or finally to a combination of both causes. Arrest of the heart movements is producible, as is now well known, by any violent irritant directly addressed to the trunks of the pneumogastric nerves, or to the medulla oblongata, and it is conceivable that such an effect may be brought about by any very severe injury of an external part. In fact, it has long been known that the sudden crushing of a limb in inferior animals will stop the heart or make it act slowly for a greater or less length of time. Now if we add to this M. Bernard's ex- periments, in which he showed that irritation of the posterior roots of spinal nerves suddenly checks the cardiac motions for a time, aud that like irritation of the anterior or motor roots gives rise to no such result, we shall be able to see how it is possible that a gunshot wound of a large limb may be competent to effect a like result. We should remember, too, that in nearly all these cases the hsemorrhage from large vessels, such as are usually opened by accidents of this nature, is sufiicient, even during syncope, to add to or deepen, so to speak, the effects of the reflected nerve impression. Where small vessels only have been wounded, this might not occur, but it is proper to state that men who have fallen senseless at the instant of the wound, frequently awaken after a time to find them- selves drenched with blood. Supposing such an arrest of the heart's movements to have taken place, a continuance of their stoppage, even for a brief period, would naturally give rise to cerebral ansemia, pallor, un- consciousness, and the remaining phenomena of shock. " Again, as we have said, a severe injury, as a gunshot wound of a limb or the neck, may produce its effects of unconsciousness and loss of power, by greatly weakening or for a time destroying with various degrees of completeness, the functions of all the nerve centres, and of their con- ducting cords. The influence of shock in thus causing temporary paralysis of nerve trunks is very well known to every experimenting biologist. Thus after opening the spinal cavity, it is very common to discover that the sensitive nerves are for a time unimpressible by stimuli. But, as a general thing, this is not so as regards the nerve centres within the skull, which are rarely so disturbed by the operation of uncovering them as to refuse all reply to irritations. The majority of physicians will no doubt be disposed to attribute the chief share in the phenomena of shock m its various forms to the indirect influence exerted upon and through the lieart. There are, however, certain facts, which, duly considered, will, we213 l!EFr,EX PARALYSIS FROM GUNSHOT WOUNDS. think, lead us to suppose that in many cases the phenomena in question may be due to a temporary paralysis of the whole range of nerve centres, and that among these phenomena the cardiac feebleness may play a large part, and be itself induced by the state of the regulating nerve centres of the gr(?at circulatory organ. The loss of consciousness, and the appear- ance of a state outwardly resembling syncope, prevent us in most cases from feeling sure that the great nerve centres suffer loss of function primarily and not through want of nutrition from feeble or arrested heart action." The author then alludes to the rarer cases where the patients do not fall when struck, but become insanely excited or almost hysterical, to those where the symptoms are attributable to the shock given to the auditory nerve, and to certain cases of local paralysis due to the mere mechanical effect produced upon the neighbouring parts ; for example, a ball passed along the outer surface of the lower jaw, there was no frac- ture, yet the shock caused complete paralysis of the inferior dental nerve, with absolute antesthesia, analgesia, and loss of sense of temperature in the lower lip and chin of the injured side. In rare cases gunshot wounds cause partial or very general paralysis of grave type and prolon'ged duration in parts not directly injured; these protracted paralyses must be due to an equally permanent affection of the nerve centres. Seven cases are related at length in support of these assertions. " Case I.—The wound involved the muscles of the neck or throat, and the hyoid bone. Hesult.—Paralj'sis of both arms and of the neck. " Case 1.—Fragment of shell; wound of muscles over and external to the right femoral artery. The injury may have caused concussion of the crural nerves, and thus much of traumatic paralysis. Result.—Reflected paralysis of the right arm and leg, and the left leg. " Case 3.—Probable injury of the sciatic nerve (commotion). Besult.— Reflex paralysis of the right arm. " Case 4.—Ball wound of right testicle; paralysis of right anterior tibial muscles and peroneus longus. " Case 5.—Wound by fragment of shell in external side of left thigh ; 'paralysis of tact on a corresponding part of right thigh. " Case 6.—Ball wound, probably involving the crural nerves. Result.— Paralysis of right arm. " Case 7.—Ball wound of deltoid muscle; sensory and slight motor paralysis of same arm. " There is jio evidence in this case that the ball struck the bone or directly injured any large nerves, since even the deltoid itself had nearly full power when the patient was first examined by us. In three of these cases the leg was hit, and the arm of the same side was paralysed. In three cases the paralysis affected the opposite side of the body, and in one the paralysis of tact and pain was observed to have fallen'upon a space symmetrically related to the wounded spot as regards position. No general law, therefore, can be deduced from these records, nor from what we see in the causation of reflex paralysis from disease should we expect to find any inevitable relation between the part injured and the conse- quent paralysis. The constitutional condition at the time of the wounding, as to excitement, mental and physical, may possibly have to do with214. IIKPOUT ON SUJIOKRY. causing tlio resultant paralysis. Of the seven cases above repoiied, two were in active movement, two were standing about taking aim, one was kneeling, and of two wo have no information as to this point. It may- prove, upon examining a larger immbcr of cases, that a man wounded when moving violently, or when excited, is more than another liable to reflex paralysis, but as yet we are not entitled to such an inference. In most of our cases the constitutional eflccts were instant and severe, and could not therefore have been due to the loss of hlood, which in some of thena was copious. Four of the seven cases had stinging, smarting, or burning pain in the part paralysed reflectively. The pain was an early symptom, which disappeared in all of them after a time. In three cases no such pains were complained of. The after history of these cases is extremely curious. However grave the lesion of motion or sensation, it grew better early in the case, and continued to improve until the part had nearly recovered all its normal powers. In almost every instance some relic of the paralysis remained, even after eighteen months or more from the date of wounding. In some the part remained weak, in others there was still left some slight loss of sensibility^, and in two the loss of power and of sensory appreciation was very considerable. In a case of reflex paralysis from a wound we have, therefore, some right to expect that the patient will recover rapidly up to a certain point; then in most cases a small amount of loss of power or sensation may remain. The future history of our own or other cases may determine hereafter whether the recovery is ever quite complete. " In two of the seven cases there were lesions of sensation and motion. In three, motion alone was lost, and in two the senses of tact and of pain were affected without other loss of function. " Although long periods had elapsed in every case before we examined them, in only one was there any very notable wasting; and even in this patient the loss was general througout the member, and may be readily ascribed to mere lack of use. In none was there atrophy, such as cha- racterises lesions of nerves, and certain rheumatic and other palsies, save, perhaps, in the doubtful instance of the right arm in Case i." After discussing the explanation given by Brown-Sdquard for reflex paralysis, it is remarked, that " either the shock of a wound destroys directly the vital power of a nerve centre, or it causes paralysis of the vaso-motor nerves of the centre, with consequent congestion and secondary alterations. But there is no reason why, if shock be com- petent to destroy vitality in vaso-motor nerves or centres, it should be incompetent so to effect the centres of motion or sensation. Until tlie causation of these cases is better understood, it is vain to speak confidently as to treatment founded on a conception of the mode of their production. Experience htis shown that the removal of the first cause, and in some instances the application of alteratives, as blisters to tlie cicatri.x, prove valuable in relieving such induced pain as may exist. Further, that stimulating liniments or blisters to the afl'ected member are useful, and that the local application of induced electric currents to the muscles is of the utmost service. The question of the use of internal remedies has yet to be decided by larger clinical experience. We ourselves have been un- fortunate, in that no chances have presented themselves of treating theseINDIGO IN PUS. 215 cases in their early stagess, when the causes which first produce the paralysis arc present and before those later nutritive changes occur which, as we presume, are essential to the continued existence of the state of palsy. We have endeavoured to show in this report that the condition called shock is of the nature of a paralysis from exhaustion of nerve force ; that it may affect one or many nerve centres ; and finally, that it may be so severe as to give rise in certain cases to permanent central nerve changes, productive of paralysis of sensation and motion, or of either alone." N. PirogofT, 'General Military Surgery ' (pp. 1168, Leipz., F. C. W. Vogel). E. Sonrier ' Gunshot Wounds during the ItaHan Campaign' (Paris, V. Eozier). Dr. Zeehmeister, • Gunshot Wounds, &c.' (Miinchen). On gunshot wounds ('Schmidt's Jahrb.,' vol. 120, p. 71). Prof. v. Pitha, case of gunshot wound of the neck ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1864, p. 51). A. J. Semmes and T. Longmore, cases ('Lane.,' 1864, i, go, 266). G. Basileand Dr. Eipari, the wound of Gen. Garibaldi ('Lane.,' 1864, 1,467). J. Schok, case of wound of stomach, diaphragm, and lung ('Wien. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, pp. 37, 53). J. Moses, cases occurring near Chat- tanooga in September, October, and November, 1863 ('Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. xlviii, p. 344). SUPPTTRATION. TV. B. Herapalh on the ocmirrence of indigo in jnirulent discharges (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1864, ii, 338).—After describing the different forms of indigo observed in the urine, the author relates a case in which tliis substance was found in pus. A man with old disease of the knee- joint had a large, tense, fluctuating swelling in the calf of the same leg. " It was punctured, and a large quantitj' of serous fluid poured out, together with some large white bodies, which, at first sight, appeared like hydatids, but were afterwards thought to be masses of fat, as no distinct hydatid structure could be discovered in them." On the 7th September the puncture was repeated, and on the iith the wound was enlarged. Towards the end of the month "he had an attack of violent phlegmonous erysipelas around the kuee-joint, in the leg, and over the calf, which rapidly extended down even to the foot. Fluid continued to escape from the open- ing made in the sac, but it had now a decidedly purulent character, .and the margins of the wound became very red, angry, and inflamed. During the course of the next week or more, evaporating spirit lotions were used to keep down the temperature of the inflamed leg, and several large buUjB formed upon the dorsimi of the foot, upon the calf, and under the ham; from these, on bursting, a sero-purulent fluid exuded in large quantities, and the discharge from the original wound was considerably increased. He had frequent startings and jumpings in the leg, which gave him in- tense agony, and his nights were sleepless unless he had strong morphia draughts, or opium in some form or other. His leg was now so painful and swollen that he could not bear the least motion, and it was kept in one position, on its outer side, upon a splint, and somewhat flexed at the knee. During three weeks he continued in this pitiable condition, and it was during this period that the cloths employed to keep his limb wetREPOllT ON SUIIGEIIV. with spirit lotion, together with all the bed-clothes where the fluid ha; soaked through them, were found constantly tinged of a greenish-blu, colour, having very much the apiJcarancc of mouldy cheese, whilst th spirit and water used, after a little time became equally greenish blu from having the cloths frequently wrung out in the vessel containing th dilute spirit, which was made by mixing gin with about four or five time the quantity of spring water. This peculiar colour gave me no alarm.. for at first I was disposed to consider it as the natural mouldiness occau sioned by the presence of microscopic fungi vegetating in tlie organic matters of the discharges ; and I ordered some of the fluid to be savec for microscopic examination, fully anticipating that I should discove: the^e minute plants without any diflUcultj'. But to my very great sun prise, T found no such organisms apparent, even with the higher powerf' of the instrument; whilst on repose, the bottle being full and corked, tht blue colour disappeared in the course of a few hours. However, upoi again taking out the cork, and exposing to the air for a short time, tht' blue colour was again developed, chiefly at the surface of the fluid. Thie^ experiment clearly proved that the phenomenon was due to some che-- mical action of oxygen upon a colourless material analogous to indigo in its deoxidized condition. So upon treating the blue liquid with a solution , of hypochlorite of lime or soda, the colour was immediately discharged a.=- certainly as if indigo itself had been acted upon. When treated with an ammoniacal solution of acetate of lead, the whole colouring matter was- precipitated in combination with the lead. And, if filtered through paper, although some of the blue pigment was retained in the meshes of the paper, some passed through from the ver}' fine state of molecular divi- sion in which the substance was ; a further deposit took place after a time in the filtrate in consequence of the oxidation it had undergone from being so freely exposed to the action of oxygen during the process of fil- tration. By repeating this operation several times, sufficient material was obtained to furnish other evidence of the presence of indigo blue, namely, by its solubility in hot alkalies, when deoxidized by sugar or protoxide of iron, and the volatihzation of the pigment and crystallization of the sub- stance when submitted to cautious sublimation. It is much to be re- gretted that the true nature of this substance was only discovered upon the eve of its disappearance, or a much larger supply could have befen readily obtained. On changing the remedial measures to poultices, which became necessaiy in consequence of the formation of numerous abscesses along the course of the saphjena vein, and in the ham, and upon the dorsum of the foot and around the ankle, the feet assumed the ordinary appearances, and the blue colouring matter was no longer found to de- velope itself; this might have been either from its having ceased to be formed, or from the poultices preventin.g that constant oxidation which was so essential for the production of the blue colour from the originally colourless base." Soon afterwards the limb was amputated. Dr. Hildwein, case of abscess rajiidly healed after injectio)! of perman- ganate of potash ('WIeu. Med. Halle,' 1864, p. 147)." Case of purulent diathesis ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1863, p. 5.38). F. Innhauser, psoas abscess cured by animal baths ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1864, pp. 168, 180).217 iiospiTAT, gangkt;nt;. EETSIPELAS. Dr. Post alladed at the New York Academy of Medicine ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1S63, ii, 123), to the good effects of bromine in cases of diph- theria'and erysipelas. "In the ' Park Barracks,' in Louisville, erysipelas broke outwitli great severity, and the moment that the bromine treatment was introduced, the disease ceased to spread. The remedy was used both in fumigation and as a local application. The surgeons were in the habit of moistening lint with the compound solution of bromine and applying it directly to the part, and covering the whole with oiled silk. Dr. Post saw a number of cases treated in that way where improvement had taken place in a very short time. He was informed by those gentlemen who had charge of the erysipelatous hospital, that in almost all cases, in from twelve to twenty-four hours after the commencement of the treatment, the erysipelas^began to subside. It scarcely in any case continued to spread beyond two or three days ; generally its spread was checked within from twelve to twenty-four hours." HOSPITAL GAIiTGllENE. W. Thomson states (' Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. xlvii, p. 393) that "the discharges from several of these cases were examined, to ascertain whether some of the speculative views in regard to the pre- sence of fungi and their influence in producing the disease could be sus- tained, but no fungi were found. The discharge consisted of fluid, gra- nular matter, and debris. The connective tissue seemed to have been broken down into unrecognisable granular material. The fibrous tissue was softened and easily teased out, and in the muscular tissue the striated appearance was lost before the fibrous. No evidence of textural growth was found in the discharges, although the ' piled-up' and thickened margins of the ulcers would probably reveal, on examination, a multipli- cation of the connective tissue-corpuscles, as reported in a similar group of cases at Annapohs, Md., by Assistant-Surgeon Woodward, U.S.A." Dr. Parker believes ('Amer. Med, Times,' 1863, ii, 109) "that the same causes operate to produce hospital gangrene which are necessary for the development of typhus or typhoid lever, but with this addition, the presence of suppurating wounds! Superadded to the effects of bad ven- tilation we have, also, the results of the decomposition of pus and other discharges from wounds. How does this cause operate ? I know that some assume, on the one hand, that it operates locally ; and still others, that it operates through the constitution. Wo all know that smallpox may be developed either through vaccination or by direct exposure to contagion; and I believe that very much the same thing is ti*ue with reference to hospital gangrene. "We may have in some cases the local symptoms showing themselves first, and then subsequently the constitu- tional symptoms and rice versa. Dr. Ball, who has written an inaugural thesis on hospital gangrene, the result of observation during the summer months while engaged in the hospital in the charge of Dr. AVeir, in Frederick, enumerates forty-three cases, in five of which he states thatEEFOET ON SUEGERY. 318 the constitutional symptoms wcro the first ones that sliowcd thein- selves." -F. II. Ilnmilton records Iwo cases of hospital f/anf/rene, occurring wilh- otit previous icound ('Amer. Med. Times,' 186.3, i'i, i8i).~" Case i.— General Hospital, No. 4, Nashville, Tenn. Wcstley Frost, ofthe8';th 111 inois V^olunteers, was convalescing' from a severe attack of pneumonia, when, about the 23nd of March, 1863, a small vesicle appeared upon tiie front of his riglit leg, where the skin was perfectly sound, 'i'liis soon dried up, became black, and the sloughing commenced. This man had never had syphilis, or any other constitutional specific malady, but at the moment of his attack he was exceedingly feeble. There were at the same time two or three cases of hospital gangrene in an adjoining ward, but none in the ward which he occupied. On the 14th of April, when my attention was first called to him, the gangrene had been corrected by bromine, but the ulcer covered eight inches by four of superficial surface, and the shaft of the tibia was dead. Some time during the month of August, by the courtesy of the surgeon in charge of the hospital, I was permitted to remove tlie dead bone, which was found 13 include all, or nearly all, of the tibia intermediate to the epiphyses. I have seen him several times since then; and find the wound cicatrizing finely, and his general health steadily improving. "Case 1.—On the 26th of March, 1863, I saw, in General Hospital No. 7, at Louisville, Kentucky, a Confederate soldier, Travis Austin, with two large ulcers, one upon the right wrist and the other upon the right leg, near the ankle, both ulcers being the result of hospital gangrene, which had been arrested by the use of bromine, applied as recommended by Dr. Goldsmith. I was informed that he had not been wounded, but that he was admitted on the 15th of Februar}--, 1863, with purpura hremorrhagica. He had been living for a long time without fresh vege- tables, and he was no doubt scorbutic. The gangrene commenced almost simultaneously both upon his wrist and his ankle, as a small pimple, from which point it rapidly spread." W. O. Pryer observed two epidemics of this disease ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1864, i, 4). In the first, "the disease would run its course some- what after the following manner:—A patient, whose wound would be progressing to a favorable result, would suddenly be seized by a chill, followed by fever: that is, by heat of skin, frequency of pulse, headache, loss of appetite, a furred tongue, constipation of bowels, &c. No sweating stage, however, was observed. The wound previously healthy, would assume an inflamed appearance, not immediately, for the constitu- tional symptoms would precede the local, by from twelve to twenty-four hours. The integument and subcutaneous areolar tissue surrounding the j wound then became inflamed, and infiltrated with serum, afterwards with pus, ancTthe sloughing would commence at the edges of the wound. Tlie skin itself resisted the sloughing process longer than the subcutaneous tissues, and for that reason the edges of the wound would become under- mined for some inches beyond the open surface, and portions of sound skin would project beyond the general circumference, giving the wound a ragged appearance. The sloughing would advance, both by eating away the edge of the wound and by penetrating deeper into the subjacent tissue;219 ItOSPITAL GA5IG11ENE. but in no instance, during the first epidemic, did it involve any structure deeper than the deep fascia of the part affected. In most cases the duration of the disease did not exceed ten days or a fortnight, at the end of which time the wound would again assume a healthy character, the exposed surface granulating very rapidly, while the appetite and general health of the patient would return. It will be noticed at once that the disease described has all the characteristics of ordinary phlegmonous ery- sipelas, and, in fact, with the exception of a few points to be noticed presently, it differed from that disease but little. Some of these points of difference were these:—First, the sloughing advanced more rapidly than is usual in phlegmonous erysipelas, and involved a large surface. Second, the contagious properties of the disease are much increased; so much so was this the case, that at one time fully one half the patients in the pavilion were affected by this sloughy condition. The third point of distinction between this and ordinary phlegmonous erysipelas was shown in the fact, that in several instances patients lying next to one affected by the form of gangrene already described, would take from him not this, but another form of the disease, which will be spoken of when describing the chai'acteristics of the second epidemic. "After this first epidemic.had run its course, or had been checked, the wounds, both in the pavilion and tents, assumed a healthy appearance, and so continued for about two or three weeks, when the second epidemic commenced. In this the mode of attack was very different from that which has been described. The chill, the fever, the sudden prostration, in fact nearly all the symptoms of constitutional distui-bance which usually mark the inception of an acute disease, were absent. The first symptoms of gangrene were purely local, and would present themselves somewhat in this way. The wound, which yesterday presented a per- fectly healthy appearance, would to-day show in the midst of its healthy florid granulations, a small spot, perhaps a mere point, of a grayish hue. Prom this point the sloughing would commence, the spot enlarging and appearing, as it were, to eat its way into the wound, the newly formed tissue melting away as the disease advanced, until the wound had assumed its former proportions. The sloughing, however, would not stop here, but would invade the old and healthy tissues, involving not only the skin and subcutaneous and deep fascias, but all the tissues, including the bone itself In fact, this second epidemic was more formidable than the first, whether it attacked a patient, who had previously suffered from slough- ing, or one who had before remained unaffected. No deaths, however, occurred from this cause among the patients under my care, but in all cases the sloughing finally ceased, and, as the dead tissue was removed, healthy granulations showed themselves underneath, and the healinw process went on as before. It was certainly interesting to witness the readiness with which the patients recovered from the repeated attacks, and the rapidity with which the wound closed up, when once the granu- lations began to form." " In drawing a distinction between these two forms of gangrene, it is not intended to give the idea that they are different diseases, but simply to note the fact of the appearance of gangrene at difl'erent times in different forms. In the first form the erysipelas appeared as the most3:20 lUOl'ORT ON SURGEllY. proiniueiit characteristic, while iu the sccoud this was entirely wanting. In the iirst the constitutional symptoms were very marked, and pre- ceded the local manifestations; while in the second the disease l)egan as a local disorder entirely, although the symptoms of constitutional irritation, of course, presented themselves as the disease advanced. The fact, however, that one form seems to be able to produce tlie other appears to establish the link between the two." • F. IJinJcle on the use of jtermantjanaic of potash ('Amer. Med. Tim,,' l86,3, ii, 2.';4, 261]).—"In the treatment of over fifty cases in the Campbell Hospital the modus operandi of employing the remedy was discovered, and the following is my report:—Prom one to four grains of (in ?) solution* was given in twenty-four hours, and it acted as a tonic astringent, oxygenator, and vivifier of the blood. As a consti- tutional remedy, it was only given in cases where the system was greatly depressed. Locally the concentrated solution was applied as an escharotic, with a hair pencil, over the surface of the wound, even extending its application over the cuticle four inches beyond the seat of the wound: After the wound was thoroughly pencilled, lint satu- rated with the dilute solution was applied, and the dressing repeated every tlu-ee or four hours. The dilute solution is prepared as follows:— From two to four drachms of the concentrated solution is added to a pint of water, the strength varying in accordance with the severity of the case. Previous to the application of the solution the wound should be thoroughly cleansed with Castile soap and water. In cases where the wound is deep or difficult of access, the concentrated solution, as an escharotic, was injected with a gutta-percha syringe two or three times during the day, and the dilute solution at regular intervals, when lint could not be applied. By this local application the most aggravated cases of gangrene, resulting from traumatic wounds, were arrested; the treatment was then modified to suit the state of the wound, until healthy granulations ensued. After the gangrenous slough had entirely disappeared, which occurred in about five days from the time the gangrene had been arrested, simple dressings were , applied with the dilute solution, nntil the wound was entirely healed. It also proved valuable as a remedial agent in bed-sores, where there was extensive suppuration along the spine and hips beneath the integu- ments, causing a number of openings in the cuticle for the discharge of pus. The sores and the parts beneath the integument were thoroughly cleansed with Castile soap, and water was then injected two or three times a day. Subsequently the aftected parts were thoroughly injected Avith a dilute solution (5iv ad Oj) of the permanganate of potassa. Occasionally, in aggravated cases, it was expedient to inject the con- centrated solution once a day for several days." It was also used in the treatment of stumps after amputation, iu some cases of haemorrhage, and as a general application in gunshot wounds. T. P. P/c/c, history of a recent epidemic of phagedcena or hoqntal gangrene,—St. George's Hospital ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, i, 262).— *" Nitric acid failed to stop the disease; and as it causes excruciating pain, * The solution contains 85 grs. to the fluid ounce of water, dissolved by heat.HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 221 Mr. Pick does not think its use advisable. Carholio acid was applied locally iu several cases, all general treatment being avoided. In no one instance was there sufficient evidence to justify the assumption that it arrested the disease. " The transfusion of a stream of cUorine (jas through the ward was tried in one or two instances, though not sufficiently often to establish any definite result. On August 6th there were three cases of phagedfena in the Fitzwilliam "Ward of this liospital. They were of different duration, and were all spreading, though in one there was some slight tendency to arrest. A gentle stream of chlorine gas was passed through the ward for eighteen hours, at the end of which time the phagedasna was arrested in all three cases. A man, having undergone amputation, was placed in a separate apartment. Two days after, he was attacked with phagedtena, which rapidly extended. A stream of chlorine was passed through the ward, and in forty-eight hours the disease was arrested. Though these facts are satisfactory, they are not conclusive, and are far too meagre to arrive at any just conclusions. Whether this remedy has any control over the disease or not, there is no doubt that it must act beneficially^ if in no other way, at least in destroying the disgusting effluvia, which it does in a pre-eminent degree." " There is no doubt that opium is our sheet-anchor. After watching the wonderful effects of this drug—not in one or two cases, but iu dozens, and after every other conceivable remedy had been tried, and failed—I am confident that, if there is such a thing as a specific, opium is a specific for phagedajna, if properly administered, and in sufficient quantities. I have never seen it fail. The most obstinate case was that of "William "W"—, whose history is given above. He took laudanum in gradually increasing quantities for fifteen days, till at last he was taking nearly half an ounce in the twenty-four hours. This, however, subdued the disease. But this must not be regarded as a typical case. Instances have been seen in which a' rapidly spreading sore has pre- sented a perfectly clean and healthy surface under twenty-four hours' treatment by opium ; and two or three days may generally be considered as ample time to stop the most rapidly spreading sore. ^'■Chlorate of potash.—This remedy, from its known properties in checking unhealthy and gangrenous ulcerations, was largely tried in phagedsena, and with some amount of success; for, though it did not appear to arrest the disease—at all events, not \sdth the same certainty as opium—still it appeared to act beneficially in the cleaning of sores and the separation of sloughs ; and, from a knowledge of its properties, it was supposed that it might act as a prophylactic, and prevent a recurrence of the disease, and was accordingly prescribed largely. " Ammonia possesses no power over the disease, but was often a necessary addition, on account of the very rapid prostration and tlie great deficiency of nervous power which is often observable in these cases. " Dr. Polli, of Milan, has lately introduced a class of medicines before the profession as having the power of-arresting the putrefactive fer- mentation, viz., sulphurous acid, in combination with potass, soda, and lime. These remedies were tried in phagedajna, and the drug did notUEl'ORT ON SUllGERY. S22 appear to oxerfc any influouce. It was given in Hcveral cases, and in no one instance was tlie slightest benefit obtained. " The treatment, then, that lias been adopted during the lute out- break has been in the main opium, sometimes combined with ammonia or chlorate of potass, at other times alone, and a liberal diet. And, whatever may be the result of treatment in other epidemics, there iij no doubt that, in the one under consideration, this plan was followed by the best results ; in fact, it was the only one which really subdued the disease. Of forty-seven cases of which accurate records are kept, the average time which the opium took to subdue the disease was forty- eight hours, the shortest being twenty-four hours." Dr. Farher ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1863, ii, 110) says :—" I saw a large number of cases last summer at the New York Hospital, and afterwards at Bellevue ; and, with the assistance of my fi-iend Dr. Peck, I made trial of almost everything claimed to be useful in the treatment of the disease ; and we came to the conclusion that what is called there tiie disinfecting powder—composed of percarb. of iron, pulv. ciuchon., and opium—was the most grateful application, while constitutionally there was nothing to equal the scattering of patients the plentiful supply of fresh air, a clean skin, and cjenerous diet." 'F. S. Hamilton publishes a tabular statement of thirty-three cases ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1863, ii, 205), from which it appears that death twice occurred, though not till some days after the gangrene had been arrested. In the one case the patient died from exhaustion, the result of extensive suppuration in the knee-joint, the wound having been in perfectly healthy condition for several days. In the other, the patient died from dysentery, his wound having put on a healthy action two weeks before his decease. " In one case, where nitric acid was used, the disease was not arrested; and at the end of ten days it was found necessary to amputate the leg above the knee. The stump healed by the first intention. Looking at the table again, and analysing it, it will be seen that the average duration of all the cases under all treat- ments amounts to la'ijij days. Number treated with nitric acid . . .18 Average duration of disease . . . .16 days. Number treated with sol. bromine . . .14 Average duration 6'6428 days. Number treated with iodine . . . . i Average duration 7 days. The constitutional treatment consisted in good diet, whiskey, and iron. J. Moses found bromine to bo the most useful remedy ('Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. xlvii, p. 333). He remarks that " its application, though very painful, should be thorough. Great care should be taken in its application, which should be to the sound tissue, after separating the slough carefully. One application will often be sufUcient, but a second and third are not unfrequeiitly required." W. Thomson (loc. cit.) says,—" Eecognising the depressed condition of the first few cases, I endeavoured to remedy it by giving at short intervals nutrients and stimulants, with such tonics as seemed proper;HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 223 and milk punch, alternating with beef essence, porter or ale, and en;g- uog, was at first given, regardless of the desires of the patient. _ The Ferri et Quin. Cit. with sherry wine was given in doses of gr. vj to x three times daily. This system was found injudicious, since it over- powered the feeble digestive organs, and caused nausea, vomitipg, and diarrhoea; it was suspended, and Acid. Hydrochloric, gtt. iv, in com- bination with Tt. Opii gtt. xvj, were given every three hours. Under this treatment the tongue became moist and clean, and the appetite returned sufficiently to cause the patient to ask for and enjoy a rea- sonable quantity of food. The opium was given to allay the gnawing pain and to give rest and sleep, as well as to obtain any specific influ- ence over the disease which it might possess, as claimed for it by the older writers. " The local treatment consisted at first in the use of undiluted nitric acid, freely applied to the entire surface of the ulcer. The table (of 9 cases) indicates the success of that treatment. Of the 9 cases, all were treated with the acid in the early stages. Of these, 2 were fatal, and 2 resisted the acid; or in other words, in 4 cases it was useless. Of these 4, the two fatal cases were not treated otherwise, whilst the other 1 were treated with success, with bromine. The 5 cases treated successfully with acid are marked ulceration, and were milder than those that proved fatal, or than those that were treated with bromine successfully. The dressing, after the use of the acid, was an antiseptic wash, either creasote, or Liq. Sod. Chlor. in a dilute solution. In some instances a yeast poultice, or a stimulating one of cinchona, ginger, and porter, seemed to assist in cleaning the siirface. Where the sore lost its sloughing character, after the use of nitric acid, the mild antiseptic washes were sufficient to encourage rapid granula- tion. " Of more value than the acid is the solution of bromine in water and bromide of potassium, proposed by Surgeon Goldsmith, U.S. Vols. Two cases were treated v?ith this agent, in both of which nitric acid had failed. One of these would, doubtless, have proved fatal, whilst the other was progressing rapidly, although the acid had been used several times without benefit. The action of the bromine is that of a caustic ; all the necrosed tissues are converted into tough yellow shreds, and are perfectly deodorized. The ulceration seems to be checked at once, whilst the nervous sy stem, no longer depressed by the absorption of the fetid products of the mortification, soon recovers from its depres- sion. The areola loses its livid hue, becomes more crimson, and finally disappears ; the sloughs are rapidly thrown oft', and a rosy, florid sur- face appears beneath. The bromine was also used in the form of vapour, confined to the surface by oiled silk. Its antiseptic influence is very powerful, since not the least odour could be perceived on dressing these gangrenous sores, even when they had been covered closely with oiled silk for twelve hours." To this report the author appends notes of 4 other cases occurrino- sporadically; he remarks that " it will be observed that 3 of these I cases were fully treated with pure nitric acid without benefit, and that the 4 did yield eventually to the local application of bromine. Where2U IIKPOIIT ON SUUOKllY. that remedy liiis required lieretol'ure several repetitions, it W(;uJd imw be used more energetically. The diseased surface would be thorouglily cleansed of all slouglis, by removing those portions dead, yet tenaciously adherent, with the forceps and scissors, and pure bromine would be freely used by means of a glass pipette or a syringe. A number of the cases reported I am now satisfied would have proved fatal but for this local treatment." B. L. Stanford reports a case ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1863, ii, 24), in which the compound solution of bromine was applied daily for the term of twenty-seven days without arresting the gangrenous process, while the 2>ure bromine arrested it upon the first application. "The wound was prepared for the reception of the remedy in the same way, and with no more pains than had been taken upon each application of the solution. The constitutional symptoms subsided within twenty-four hours after the pure bromine had been applied ; the gangrenous odour disappeared entirely within the first six hours after the application of the pure remedy. Within twenty-four hours the appetite returned, and has continued good ever since." G. JR. WeeJcs reports ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1863, ii, 46), that "there were cases treated in the various hospitals in Louisville, Ky. Of these, 104 were treated with bromine in some manner, and 11 by other remedies. Of those treated by bromine, 3 died; 2 of pyasmia and 1 of cellulitis, gangrene having been previously arrested, and the wounds were granulating. Of the 11 otberwise treated, 3 died of gan- grene. Of those treated by bromine, 80 were treated with compound solution (Smith's formula), and 24 vrith pure bromine. The average time of arrest in the cases treated by compound solution of bromine was S'lp days; those by bromine pure, 2't2 days; and of those other- wise treated, i4'66. I observed this general fact, that, as the strength of the remedy was increased, the process was shortened in a corre- sponding ratio also; that, where bromine pure was properly and efli- ciently applied, only one application was required to arrest it, although three or four days were afterwards necessary for the development of granulations. Another and more important fact was observed, i. c. that the local application of bromine to a gangrenous surface had a direct effect upon the constitutional symptoms, which are immediately lessened in violence, and the constitution rebounded as if relieved of n burden: this was the case with those who had no constitutional treat- ment whatever." The author thinks bromine superior to nitric acid, because " it is not so destructive to living tissue, and can be used where the acid is inad- missible on periosteum, tendons, and vessels, without destroying their integrity. It is of great utility in cases of secondary haemorrhage, where the artery has sloughed; three cases have occurred where arteries were tied in gangrenous sores with complete success, thus enabling us to extenil the rule of Guthrie to these cases—' always tie a bleeding vessel in the wound, if it can be reached at that point'! I have tied the anterior tibial artery upon the face of a gangrenous stump, and arrested the process by the use di bromine, and the patient recovered as well as by a primary operation. The brachial and dorsalis pedis arteriesHOSPITAL GANGEENE. were tied under the same circumstances, with the same result. The patients are now well. Bromine arrests the gangrenous process so effectually and certainly, that I am inclined to think this procedure good practice." " I believe the best mode to apply the bromine to be this:—with a pair of scissors or a scalpel cut away all the sloughs down to the living tissue (or until by ha3morrhage you are warned to go no further), being careful to clean out all nooks and corners putting off from the central sore, or wliere it has dipped down into intermuscular spaces or followed aloug the cellular plane, where it is apt to escape observation. Then wash the wound with warm water, and dry with a pledget of lint or charpie; then apply pvire bromine to the entire surface with a mop or swab, and if cavities exist, inject it into them with a small glass syringe, and with a pine stick press it up so as to mix it with all the pulp or pultaceous matter that may still linger in the wound. Simple dressings should then be apjjlied, and the sore excluded from the atmosphere for two days, when warm-water dressings should be used to facilitate the detachment of the slough, after which points of granulations will be noticed springing up, and, if no fetor is present, the arrest is complete. If some fetor still exists, it is evidence that some points have been missed and should be retouched, observing the same rule as in its first application. The wound should then be treated on general principles. If the granulations become weak, I have found much benefit from the use of a weak solution of bromine, say 40 gtt. comp. sol. bromine to §j of water, applied morning and evening." Dr. Post mentioned at a meeting of the New York Academy of Medicine ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1863, ii, 122), that "the preparations of bromine that have been used have been either tlie pure bromine, a dark- red liquid with a pungent odour, or more frequently a preparation analogous to Lugol's solution of iodine—160 grains of the bromide of potassium ai'e dissolved in 4 oz. of water, this solution is placed in a bottle, an ounce of bromine is added, making a solution of the bromu- retted bromide of potassium." He speaks vei'y highly of the effects of this treatment, and remarks, that he " saw at Louisville a case of hospital gangrene of the leg, where, in the course of the disease, the posterior tibial artery became involved, and haemorrhage occurred. The interest- ing feature in tliis was, that the surgeon in charge tied the artery at the bottom of the sloughing surface, and applied the bromine immediately over it. I saw that case a little less than a week after the application occurred, and the case was doing remarkably well. The ligature had separated the day before I saw it, and at that time the sore was in a state of healthy granulation." Dr. E. Jarvis stated that he had seen this case on the twenty-fifth day, perfectly recovered. M. Goldsmith, bromine in hospital gangrene ('Amer. Med. Tim.' 1863, n, 121). L. Graves used a drachm of bromine to eight ounces of water as a local application (ibid., p. 206). D. C. Lloyd, in his report of five cases (ibid., pp. 266, 278), speaks very highly of the effects of bromine. J. A. Dougherty, case (ibid., p. 84). G. P. Hachenberg on the local use of turpentine (ibid., 1864, i, 264). Mr. Maunder, cases ('Loud. Hosp. Eep.,' i, 104). 15226 heport on siiuqeey. PYiEMIA. M. Burggraeve treated sixty-five wounded patients with the sulphUes ('Bull. Beige,' 1863, p. 342). The sulphite of magnesia was admiuistered in the dose of fifteen grains, four to six times a day ; it was given witli a little sugar in a glass of water. The wounds were dressed with lint wet with a solution of the sulphite of soda. Ho found that the internal use of the sulphite of magnesia promoted digestion; the tongue remained clean, and the skin moist; the urine was clear and acid ; it resisted decomposition for an unusually long time when exposed to the air. The local use of the sulphite of soda caused anaesthesia or insensibility of the wounded surface, especially marked in cases of burns. It ap- peared to stimulate the process of reparation, for the wounds filled rapidly with granulations. More important is its action on the purulent discharge, which is diminished in quantity, and rendered inodorous and perfectly neutral. Dr. Doutrelepont on the operative treatment of pyamia (' Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' vi, 100).—The author relates the following case -n^th the view of showing, that even when recovery appeared hopeless, and all the symptoms of pyaemia were present (fever, rigors, yellow colour of the skin, metastatic abscesses in various parts of the body), removal of the morbid focus would have saved the life of the patient, had not an intercurrent affection occurred. Joseph K—, ast. 40, was injured by a fall on the 7th May, 1859. There was a transverse fracture of the humerus above the condyles, and the latter were broken into several pieces. The forearm was displaced backwards. On the 17th a plaster bandage was applied ; fourteen days later it was removed, owing to pain about the inner condyle. Acute inflammation with suppuration of the joint followed. On the 24th June the joint was excised ; on the 30th there were rigors, followed by very violent fever; the wound, which had begun to granulate healthily, became relaxed, and the pus ichorous ; the forearm swelled, the wrist- joint inflamed and suppurated. Owing to the violent fever and repeated rigors, the patient's strength rapidly sank; large abscesses quickly formed on the sacrum and scapula, and, when opened, dis- charged an ichorous fluid, mixed with pieces of dead cellular tissue; the skin became yellowish. Amputation of the arm was, therefore, per- formed on the 8th June. By the lath, the general condition of the patient had decidedly improved, and the fever had diminished. Tlic yellow colour of the skin gradually disappeared; almost the whole wound healed by the first intention. The metastatic abscesses soou filled with healtliy granulations ; the patient became able to get out of bed for some hours each day. Suddenly on the 28th July symptoms of internal strangulation appeared, and'death followed on the eveuing of the 29th. The post-mortem examination proved that the constriction was eftected by a fold of the mesentery; no abscesses were found in the lungs. The author also mentions two cases of amputation of the thigh,EXPERIMENTS ON SEPTIOiEMIA. in which life was saved by the removal of the cause of pyaemia. Some time after the operations symptoms of infection appeared; there were repeated rigors, and continually increasing fever; in one case violent dyspncea supervened, for which no cause could be found by percussion or auscultation. As no retention of pus could be traced, to which the pyemic symptoms could be attributed, the stumps were again opened out; the ends of the bones were found to be in a state of osteomyelitis, and were excised; from that moment there were no more rigors, and the patients perfectly recovered. These were examples of self-infection, cured by removal of the morbid source. In other cases where no local cause could be found, and the pyaemia had to be attributed to hospital miasm, the author has observed the symptoms disappear after the removal of the patient to another building. He states that he has seen many cases placed in the wards of the surgical clinic, towards the end of the session, present symptoms threatening pyaemia. _ On their removal to the Catholic hospital, these symptoms soon disappeared; patients who had previously had one, or even two rigors, daily, accom- panied by violent fever, were immediately freed from these attacks, although only the air was changed, the treatment continuing exactly the same. Prof. Euhle, case after endocarditis (' G-reifsw. Med. Beitr.,' i, Eep. p. ,38). W. Eoser on pyaemia ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' 1864, p. 257). O. Weber on the origiu and treatment of pyaemia (' Arch. f. klin. Chir.,' V, 274). Dr. De Eicci and M. Semmola on the use of sulphites and hyposulphites in the treatment of zymotic diseases (' Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' vol. xxxvi, p. 470; ' G-az. Hebd.,' 1864, p. 52.3). SEPTICiEMIA. Prof. O. Weher on septicemia ('Berl. Klin. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. .377).—The author had shown by a former series of experiments, that putrid fluids, such as pus or blood, never cause infarctus or the so-called metastatic abcesses, provided they have been carefully filtered; these lesions are observed only when bodies, which, though extremely small, are still sufficient to obstruct the vessels, pass into the circulation. He now undertook, in company with Dr. TJrfey, a fresh series of expe- riments with the view of showing the influence of the various products of decomposition of such fluids over the difi'erent septic phenomena. The latter consist, as indeed was already proved by the experiments of Stich, principally in very marked congestions of the intestinal mucous membrane, accompanied by extremely free watery secretions, which appear during life m the form of profuse diarrhceal evacuations: in more severe cases, in true croupy inflammations of the bowel, accompanied by fibrinous metamorphosis of the cells of the mucous membrane and active proliferation of those of the submucous tissue ; this more serious form is characterised by rice-water stools as in cholera, and intestinal haemorrhages as in dysentery. More or less marked congestions of the most various organs, especially of the lungs, brain, liver, spleen, and kidney were, however, regularly found; they were often attended by 1 small ecchymosea. Teyer, in proportion to the intensity of the infec-UIJPOllT ON SUltaJSttY. tioii, iitteuda during life tlic intestinal catarrh ; it is characterised by u rapid increase of temperature, which again at the approach of death steadily sinks below the normal. At the same time the respirations often become very fre(]uent; various nervous symptoms occur, some- times rather of a spinal nature, as clonic spasms or paralyses of the muscles, especially of the posterior extremities, sometimes depending on tlie sympathetic, as spasm of the vessels, more or less violent rigors, excessive peristaltic and antiperistaltic movements with crampy stric- tures of the bowels, sometimes finally in a cerebral form, as intense irritation of the brain, ascending even to mania, in the later stages as somnolence and torpor. These symptoms, though varying in degree, were constantly observed, when carefully filtered septic fluids (pus and serum of the blood)were employed. Even small quantities (two drachms) of a putrid fluid sufiice, in little animals as rabbits, or small cats, to cause violent opisthotonos, followed by rapid death. Further experiments were made with sulphuretted hydrogen, sulphuret of ammonium, and butyric acid, as the bodies principally i)roduced by the decomposition of pus or blood; ammonia also was tried,a substance already often injected (by Prerichs, Picard, &c.). The general eflfect of these sub- stances was the same as of putrid serum from blood or pus ; only in refer- ence to the nervous symptoms was there a difference, inasmuch as butyric acid induced somnolence like that of uraemic poisoning, symptoms indi- cating dulness and paralysis of the sensorium, great apathy, and some- times, though not constantly, slowness of the respii-ation; symptoms which did not arise from sulphuretted hydrogen or from sulphuret of ammonium ; yet the injection of butyric acid caused spasms of the parts supplied by the motor oculi or by the spinal nerves, indeed even opisthotonos. Extreme weakness of the posterior extremities was constantly observed after its use; on the other hand, the intestinal symptoms and lesions were far less intense, being indeed confined to congestion of the mucous membrane. The action of putrid serum from pus or blood is simulated especially by the injection of a solution of Bulphui'etted hydrogen, even in very small quantities. The syinptoms then most closely resemble those of cholera; especially does the tem- perature, which is at first increased, sink to a low point in company with extremely profuse rice-water evacuations from the bowel. Death with violent opisthotonos occurs, when the action is very intense; if the animals rally, we notice vomiting, discharge of urine and faeces, quickened respiration, spasmodic twitchings, sometimes rigors. The sulphuret of ammonium does not act so powerfully; the symp- toms are much the same as after the use of sulphuretted hydrogen, except that rigors are always noticed. The three substances examined are, like putrid organic fluids, very powerful poisons ; the most so is sulphuretted hydrogen. Rabbits died immediately after the injection of a drachm of water saturated with sulphuretted hydrogen; it was indeed found that the injection of a drachm of distilled water with two drops of a saturated solution of this substance was suflicient to kill at once a rabbit, and two drachms of water with three drops of the solution to kill a little cat in six hours. A large cat became very Ul after the injection of two drachms with twoCAUSE or SEmC^^MIA. 229 and a lialf drops of aqualiydro-sulph.; it ultimately recovered, but died after the injection of four drops. Much larger quantities of sulphuret of ammonium are borne; rabbits resist the injection of six, dogs of twenty drops of it in water. For the former ten drops, for the latter sixty drops are fatal. Butyric acid is more poisonous: five drops are indeed still borne by rabbits, though they suffice to kill a little cat; for the former ten drops are, however, absolutely lethal. At least six experiments were made with each substance, and in all tlie injection was passed with the necessary care into the crural vein. These experiments prove, that the various substances, which are formed during the decomposition of pus and blood, cause symptoms far more like those induced by putrid fluids, than do ammonia or urea. The effects of the solution of sulphuretted hydrogen resemble the most closely those of putrid fluids: very extensive congestions and transuda- tions, which may be traced from the stomach to the rectum along the whole intestinal canal, in severer cases accompanied by decided croupy changes, occur in the same manner in both. The violent peristaltic movements and the spasmodic strictures of the bowel are identical in both. The same statement is true of the nervous symptoms; the latter, however, when excited by sulphuretted hydrogen and siilphuret of ammonium, resemble those from putrid fluids more nearly than do those induced by butyric acid. The cause of septicaemia must there- fore principally depend on the passage of these matters into the blood ; besides, as these chemical products are very rapidly formed in purulent collections which are directly or indirectly exposed to the air, and always occur in gangrenous disintegration of the tissues, it is very sur- prising that septiccemia does not occur much more frequently, the impreg- nation of the tissues and vessels with such matters appearing scarcely avoidable. Bo the granulations jyrevent ahsorption ? It is astonishing what little quantities suffice to cause serious poisoning of the blood. The changes in the blood deserve further examination: the alteration in its colour is decided; after the injection of butyric acid it becomes of a dirty green, and aiter that of sulphuretted hydrogen very dark. It is less affected by sulphuret of ammonium. The blood-corpuscles appear after all three much contracted and wrinkled; possibly they may lose certain functional properties. It is noteworthy that the blood after the injec- tion of sulphuret of ammonium coagulates very rapidly, but very slowly after that of sulphuretted hydrogen or butyric acid. The latter effect is also produced by the injection of putrid fluids, notwithstanding the older views and theories. Whilst the clinical delineation of pyemia is often compounded of septicaemic and embolic phenomena, various attempts have also been made to explain traumatic fever as a kind of septicaemia; Eoser espe- cially has recently* defended this view in an able manner. Weber shows that the temperature-curves in traumatic and (artificial) septic fever, are very similar. More important than this similarity, which also appears in other febrile affections, is the following experiment; it is, * Vide ' Year-Book' for 1863, p. 192.230 EEPOUT ON SURGEEY. indeed, of general interest with reference to the geneBis of fever. Admitting that in febrile states of the system some matter, possibly derived from the disintegrating tissues, circulates in the blood, and acts like a ferment; admitting besides that the complex of symptoms which we call fever, should be referred to the action of this poison on tiie nervous centres, and especially on the central organs of the vaso-motor system, the idea at once occurred, to inject the feverish blood itself into other animals, with tlie view of discovering -whether in this way fever could be produced. In respect to septic fever the experiment was brilliantly successful. The first trial showed, that the blood of animals suffering from septic poisoning, is indeed a very powerful toxic agent. On the loth June, 1864, Weber injected into a large and strong cat three drachms of flalcy pus, which emitted a smell of sulphuretted hydrogen, and which had not been filtered. The animal was at once attacked by opisthotonos, then by vomiting, diarrhoea, and very intense fever, with repeated rigors. After a time spasms, then bloody stools, on the third day purulent irido-choroiditis of both eyes, frequent respirations, somnolence; finally on the 15th day, death occurred. There were embolic infarctus in the lungs and spleen, putrid panophthalmitis, and fully developed intestinal croup; a septicajmic pyaemia had thus been produced. An. ounce of blood was taken from the vena brachialis of this animal twenty-four hours al'ter the injection of the pus, carefully deprived of its fibriue, and injected into the crural vein of a little cat. The latter at once emitted a large quantity of urine; the breathing became very hurried, then again slower and deeper; death with violent twitchings ensued after two minutes. On dissection, the hlaclder xoas found to he already again distended tcith urine ; the lungs, liver, spleen, brain, and kidneys were hypersemic. A second experiment was made with two dogs. Three drachms of very fetid serum from pus, which had been carefully filtered through paper, was injected into the crural vein of a large and powerful dog, on the 17th June. The animal suflfered from the complex of symptoms which have been already described as proper to septicaemia—with extreme, but rapidly sinking, fever; it died on the 18th in violent convulsions. An ounce of blood was taken from it a few hours before its death, and defibrinated; three drachms of this were injected into a little dog. The latter suffered, although the injection was performed witli the greatest care and very little injury, from a fever that continued for seven daj's, and that was attended by moderate rigors. Shivering was noticed imme- diately after the operation; it recurred at irregular intei-vals. The only 8ym])toms of septica;mia besides the fever, were great depression, slight retching, loss of appetite, and a little diarrlicea. Finally, Weber mentions that he has also tried as antiseptics the sulphites which have been so strongly recommended by Polli in septic and pya)mic infectious. It was indeed very striking, how a rabbit which had taken six grammes of the sulphite of soda, rapidly recovered from an injection of two drachms of distilled water with half a drop of aqua Iiydrosulphurica; yea, indeed, how the same animal under the daily use of two grammes of the sulphite, could still bear three successive injections at inten'als of four days, the last injection231 TREATMENT OP SEPTICAEMIA. containin<y seven and a half drops of the solution, a dose which had been previously found to he invariably lethal. The animaltook in all twenty- two orammes of sulphite of soda; fourteen drops of the soKition of sul- phuretted hydi-ogen were administered by injection. Yet the effect was so pernicious that the animal became extremely emaciated, and suffered from hectic fever; death ensued after a month, and no definite local lesions could be found on dissection. Although this would appear to show some prophylactic action of the medicine, an equally favorable result could not be obtained in dogs. A large white poodle, after taking two grammes of the sulphite of soda daily for four days, suffered after the injection of half an ounce of fetid, but carefully filtered, pus- serum, into the crural vein, from repeated vomiting, severe diarrhoea, and violent opisthotonos, and died in twelve hours. _ Another dog, after taking the sulphite for four days, received an injection of half an ounce of flaky pus and lived for three days, on each of which two grammes^ of the sulphite were given: it was very feverish, became' emaciated with extreme rapidity, and died with marked symptoms of septic pyaemia. On dissection a notably croupy state of the bowels and embolic in- farctus in the spleen and limgs were found. Hence it would appear that the prospect of curing septicemia by this means is very slight. E. V. Wahl, contributions to the clinical history of tlie pmulent Uiathesis and of septic infection (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' v, 321).— The author discusses these important affections in a lengthy paper, and illustrates his remarks by the relation of numerous cases. It appears that in St. Petersburg most of the cases of septicaemia arise from pro- gressive sanious disintegration of the subcutaneous cellular tissue (acute puiTilent oedema of Pirogoff),* the latter following some slight bruise or wound, or, as often happens, commencing spontaneously without any external cause. As to the fever in these cases of progressive gangrene of the cellular tissue, the author states, that a rigor usually occurs at the commencement, especially when the disease has not arisen from any external injury, and that afterwards the temperature continues very high with very slight morning remissions. About the ninth to the eleventh day, there is a rather considerable fall of the morning tempera- ture, accompanied by profuse sweating. He thinks the thermometer of great use in determining the question of amputation in such cases, the difficulty being to distinguish at a sufficiently early period traumatic from septic fever. In the former, however, the temperature rapidly augments, the highest degree, between 39° and 39'9° 0., being usually attained on the first or second day ; the defervescence is also rapid, and generally commences on the second day. On the other hand, pro- gressive gangrene is developed up to the fourth day, but not later; the commencing septic fever becomes at once continuous and high, the temperature ranging constantly between 39° and 40° 0. Dr. Wahl has tried for a considerable time the sulphites, but has never seen the least effect. There is towards the end of this paper a good account of the rapidly fatal cases of boils on the face, which have been described by Pirogoff, Giintner, &c. Gangrene.—E. v. Wahl endeavours to show that the estension of * Vide 'Year-Book' for 1862, pp. 197 and a 16.232 RKPOllT ON SURGERY. gangrene in a particular direction is due Bometimes to the mere gravi- tation of septic iluids (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' vi, 143). J. Spence, case of spontaneous gangrene, dissecting aneurism of the common iliac, &c. ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' x, 7, 66). J. Cockle on spontaneous gan- grene, connected with disease of the heart, &c. ('Med. Mirror,' i, 321, 400). TETANUS. According to Dr. Eernonlli ('Schweiz. Zeitschr. fiir Heilk.,'iii, 127), the general assertion that tetanus is more frequent in tropical lands is erroneous; there are at all events other conditions at work. The author learnt by repeated inquiries from intelligent residents in Nica- ragua that this disease is there very common, often following the sliglitest injuries, and especially fatal in infants; taking cold was quite as often considered the cause as an injury. On the other hand, the author himself during an extensive practice for five years has not seen a single case, and is aware of the occurrence of only two in Gruatemala and San Salvador. J. L. Clarke on the jyatliologxj of tetanus ('Lane.,' 1864, ii, 261).— Two cases are described, in both of which very similar pathological lesions were found, viz., great congestion of the spinal cord, with granular exudation around the vessels. Thus in the second example, "tbe pia mater of the brain was found to be slightly blood-stained in the neighbourhood of vessels, but otherwise healthy. The dura mater of the spinal cord contained about half an ounce of blood-stained fluid. The vessels of the surface of the cord itself were greatly injected, espe- cially in the lumbar enlargement. Its gray matter was congested. The remainder of the cord was more than usually vascular, both on the sur- face and in the interior, but less so than in the lumbar region. Nearly the whole of the spinal cord was sent to me by Dr. Dickinson for examina- tion. To the unassisted eye nothing unusual was observable in its in- terior. But when the microscope was employed on sections properly pre- pared, lesions were discovered of the same general nature as those which I described in the first case. Every region—the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar—was more or less aiFected; but in each the morbid appear- ances seemed rather to occur at intervals, and not uniformly througliout its length. In some sections the injur_y was limited to the gray sub- stance ; in others it involved the white columns, particularly the pos- terior and lateral. Sometimes the lesion was in the form of a granular deposit around blood-vessels ; sometimes in the form of globular masses or rings, arising from injury and displacement of the white substance of the adjacent nerve-fibres. The latter appearance was more frequent in the white columns and along the sides of fissures containing blood- vessels, where the tissue had occasionally the aspect of a moth-eaten cloth. In some places the lesional spots were exceedingly small, and might easily have been mistaken by an unpractised eye for the natural appearance of the part. * * Tlicsc changes are evidently essentially tlie same as those described by Rokitansky (1856) and Demine. As the researches of these anatomists do not appear to be gene- rally known, we append a short account of Demme's statements (from ' Schmidt's j i233 PATHOLOGY OF TETANUS. " Althout^h I shall abstain from giving any decided opinion on the exact nature of the morbid action in tetanus until I have examined more cases, the plan of treatment whicli I should try would be the fol- lowing :—Division of the wounded nerve as early and as high up as possible; cupping along the course of the spine; frequent doses of calomel combined with opium; and potassio-tartrate of antimony, repeated, during the severe paroxysms, at short intervals and in suffi- cient quantity to produce nausea, or perhaps vomiting. The chief object of the tartrate of antimony is to subdue the spasms; but it might also assist in arresting the morbid action of the blood-vessels. Some years back, in the columns of this journal, I recommended the use of tartrate of antimony in those violent and prolonged paroxysms of hysteria which are so intractable and distressing, and I have never known it fail. As soon as nausea supervenes, the spasms, however violent, begin to relax; and if the paroxysm be excited or prolonged by the presence of undigested food in- the stomach, the vomiting will prevent its recurrence. In tetanus, any depression that might be caused by the antimony w^ould be much less than the exhaustion of the nervous system resulting from the violence of the spasms. " I shall be glad to receive the spinal cords and medullas oblongatee of any patients that may die of tetanus. If they cannot reach me imme- diately, they may be cleanly cut with a sharp knife into pieces about an inch long, and preserved in a solution of chromic acid, in the proportion of I part to 300 parts of water. I shall also be glad to receive cords belonging to cases of muscular atrophy or 'wasting palsy.' " a. Demme on curare as a curative agent in tetanus (' Schweiz. Zeitschr. fiir Heilk.,' ii, 356).—In this paper the author recapitulates all that has yet been discovered in regard to the chemical, pharmaceu- tical, and physiological properties of curare, discusses at length its appli- cation to tetanus, and relates three fresh cases of the traumatic form cured by its use. According to him, there have hitherto been twenty-two cases treated by this means, and of these eight recovered. J. AV. Ogle, case treated by nicotine (' Med. Tim. and Graz.,' 1864, i, 277). J. R. Barton, case of traumatic tetanus, nicotine, death ('Dubl. Med. Press,' July, 1863). H. J. Tyn-ell on the treatment of tetanus by the local application of tobacco ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,* 1864, ii, 326); a case treated successfully by this means (' Dubl. Med. Press,' 1864, p, 213). Mr. Cam, case treated by aconite and nicotine ('Med. Jahrb./ vol. 112) :—i. The constant, anatomical character of tetanus appears to be proliferation of the connective tissue; the most striking peculiarity of this lesion is the extent over which it is found. 2. The product is a viscous mass, abounding in nuclei; it remains at this stage of development in both acute and clironic cases, never progressing to the formation of fibres. 3. This change is found almost exclusively in the white medullary substance ; the gray matter seems to suffer only secondarily, and then from compression rather than from interstitial deposit. 4. The proliferation is not always followed by corresponding swelling of the white matter; it can often be recognised only by means of the microscope. s- I* was principally found in the medulla oblongata, the crura cerebri, the inferior peduncles of the cerebellum, and in the greater part of the spinal cord. 6. This hision of the connective tissue appears to be due to long-continued or repeated congestions. 7. The period, at which it occurs, probably varies in different cases. Prof. Wagner has also noticed these changes ('Ycar-Uook,' 1862, p. 219).—T. W.REPORT ON SURGERY. 234 Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, i, 4,^1). R. W. Falconer, case treated witli ice to the apiue, recovery^ (' Brit. Mod.'Journ.,' 1864, i, 414). Mr. Adams, caso treated successfully by ice to the spine ('Lane.,' 1864, ii, 67). H. Coote, case in which Calabar bean was given ('Lane.,' 1864, i, 348). Prof, liusch, case treated by rether-cliloroform (' Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 341). L. C. Lane, ti-aumatic tetanus successfully treated by chloroform and subsequent use of belladonna ('Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. xlvii, p. 567). L. de Lachese, a very slight case of traumatic tetanus, treated by opium, belladonna, and mercury (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, p. 292). D. Hunt, case in which tetanus and paralysis coexisted ('Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' Jan., 1863). " J. Dwyer, traumatic tetanus treated successfully by large doses of whiskey and morphia—" on the night of the crisis thirty-two ounces of whiskey" ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1864, ii, 29). Dr. van Duul, post-mortem increase of temperature ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' 1864, p. 187), and C. A. Wunder- lich on the animal heat at the end of fatal neuroses (ibid., p. 205). A. J. Semmes, case treated successfully by narcotic doses of morphia ('Lane.,' 1864, i, 267). Hl/dropliohia.—Discussion at the Academy of Medicine (' Gaz. Hebd.,* 1863, p. 713). G. H.erbston, (Getting., Dieterich). Cases at Milan ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, p. 49). Cases by Dr. Whittle ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, i, 3 53), J. Cameron (ibid., 632), S. G. Chuckerbutty (ibid., 1864, ii, 364), and Dr. Stabel ('Berl. Klin. "Wochenschr.,' 1864, P- 379)- MALIGNANT PUSTULE. /. L. and C. L. Mamezin, neiu treatment for malignant pustule ('Arch. Gen.,' 1864, i, 257).—In the treatment of this disease, the all- important indication is to destroy the primary local lesion, on which the various secondary symptoms depend. With this object two prin- cipal methods have been employed—(i) destruction of the pustule by caustics ; and (2) by the actual cautery. The former is the method usually employed in the localities, where the disease is endemic. There are many objections to both these plans; to the former the slow and irregular action, the great and long-continued pain; to tlie latter, that it only destroys the part superficially, so that it is necessary to vise numerous cauteries—sometimes twelve or fifteen; still more important is the objection, that the surgeon cannot by either plan recognise when he has cauterized sufficiently; he can only guess when to stop, and is equally liable to destroy too much or too little. All tliese inconveniences may be avoided by preliminary excision of the pustule. The method followed by the authors is as follows :—After having carefully determined the margin of the pustule, its base is circumscribed by an incision; the little tumour is raised by forceps, and carefully dissected from the subcutaneous cellular tissue; the fundus of the wound must be carefully examined, and every trace of - induration excised. Finally the bleeding surface is cauterized with the hot iron. The consequences of this operation are most simple, provided it has been performed before the occuiTcnce of general symptoms ; the pain is immediately relieved by the application of cold water. NextVENERBAL DISEASES OF THE UECTUM. 235 day the cedematous swelling is decidedly diminisliing, and the eschar is surrounded by a bright-red zone. The slough separates in from eight to fifteen days, and the wound soon fills with granulations. Pourteen cases are related in support of these statements. It _ is obvious that the local lesions can thus be thoroughly eradicated with greater cer- tainty than by any other method, and the author has never had occasion to repeat the cauterization. When the disease is located near important tendons, nerves, or vessels, the latter may be easily avoided —an advantage not possessed by caustics. M. Batut on malignant pustule ('Montp. Med.,' Dec, 1863). A. Pribram ('Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, pp. 296, 304). Serpent-woimds, ^c.—H. C. Bastian on the structure and nature of the guinea-worm ('Trans, of the Linnean Soc. of London,' xxiv, loi). VEITETlEAIi DISEASES. E. Langlebert, treatise on venereal diseases (pp. 755, Paris, P. Savy). L. Belhomme and A. Martin, treatise on venereal diseases (Paris, Coccoz). F. J. Bumstead on venereal diseases of the anus and recttm ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1864, i, 247). —The author distinguishes—A. venereal aftections of the integument and mucous membrane, including—ist. gonorrhoea of the anus and rectum. and. Vegetations, due to the irritation of acrid discharges from the genital organs, but not specific in their character. B. —Ulcerations, frequently involving the imderlying cellular tissue, as well as the integument or mucous membrane; and including—ist. The chancroid, with its various complications. And 2nd. The initial lesion of syphilis, or true chancre. C. —Stricture of the rectum, in which the miicous, cellular, and muscular tissues are all more or less involved. In regard to the disease last mentioned, Dr. Bumstead confirms in the main Grosselin's researches, first published in the 'Archives Generales i de Mcdecine ' for 1854. " At the time when all venereal diseases were confounded, this i lesion was commonly called ' syphilitic' Modern reseai'ches, however, have sho^vn that it is not dependent upon infection of the system with the syphilitic virus. Upon post-mortem examination not the slightest trace is found of a deposit of syphilitic tubercle or gummy material, such as infiltrates the tissues in the neighbourhood of syphilitic stric- I ture of the larynx, trachea, and oesophagus. Again, at least half of the patients with venereal stricture of the rectum have never presented any evidence of constitutional syi)hilitic taint; and in those cases in which the two have chanced to coexist, there has been no uniform I correspondence between them; the syphilitic symptoms sometimes belonging to an early, and in others to a late period. " The correct explanation of the etiology of this aflFection appears to be that given by Gosselin—viz., that it is dependent upon chancroidal ulceration situated upon the perinajum, or margin of the anus. Chancroids frequently give rise to an hypertrophied condition of236 UEPOllT ON SIIROEKY. the neif^hbouriiin; cellular tissue, exhibiting a tendency to contrac- tion. This is often observed in the prepuce in men afiected with chancroids, the preputial orifice becoming so contracted as to occasion partial or complete piiyinosis; in women a similar result is seen in tliickening of the labia. " Now the great proportion of cases of venereal stricture of the rectum occurs in women, in whom a chancroidal discharge from sores upon the vulva readily flows upon the periuajum and anus, and, since this discharge is auto-inoculablc, may give rise to a chancroid of this region. In fact, in most of the cases of this affection, either such a sore, or the cicatrix of one, has been actually found, or the patients have confessed to having had one; and, in three cases on record, stricture of the rectum has been developed under the observation of the surgeon in women who were affected with chancroids of the periniBum or anus, and who presented no evidence of constitutional syphilitic taint. "The symptoms of venereal strictures of the rectum are peculiar in some respects, although not pathognomonic in all cases. Cicatrices, if not ulcerations, are commonly found upon the perinajum or margin of the anus. The lower portion of the rectum, just within the anus, is inflamed, smeared with pus, and often presents the internal openings of fistulffi communicating with the perinaeum. The stricture itself is more constant in its seat than other forms of this disease, and is almost invariably situated at a point corresponding to the upper edge of the sphincter of the rectum, or about two inches within the margin of the anus. In extent from below upwards, it rarely exceeds four tenths of an inch. The obstruction is never complete, and will usually admit the tip of the little finger. The bowels are commonly relaxed. The patients suffer from gastric disturbance, and have fre- quent calls to stool, accompanied by tenesmus. There is a copious discharge of pus, which either oozes away constantly, or is found mixed with the stools. This drain upon the system is probably the cause of the emaciation and depression which almost invariably attend the disease. " Post-mortem examination shows that the stricture is made up of fibrous exudation, deposited chiefly in the cellular tissue, but affecting also the mucous and muscular tissues. The mucous membrane at the seat of the contraction can be detected, thickened, and adherent to the cellular tissue beneath. The dilated portion of the rectum above the stricture is found to be extensively eroded, traces of the epithelium and glandular structure of the mucous membrane alone remaining. It is, doubtless, from this portion proceeds the copious discharge of puru- lent matter. " As to the treatment of venereal stricture of the rectum, no benefit whatever is aff'orded by the administration of anti-syphilitic remedies, as mercury and iodide of potassium. Local treatment by means of bougies and cautious incisions of the stricture, may prove successful at an early period, but, in advanced cases, is only palliative. Every effort should be made to sustain the strength of the patient by tonics and a nourishing diet, and the quantity of the discharge may be di-TllKATMEiiT OJb' GONOllRHCEA. 237 niinished by astringent enemata. When death ensues, it is commonly due to exiiaustion, or some intercurrent disease, as phthisis." H. Friedberg on venereal diseases in Indian medicine ('Arch, fiir path. Auat.,' xxx, 251). J. F. Vleminckx on the venereal disease in Belgium ('Bull. Beige,' 1862, p. 264). Prof. Sigmund on the classifica- tion and nomenclature of venereal afiections ('Wien. Med.Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 8r, &c.). GONOEKHffiA. Mr. H. GoUis on the treatment of gonorrhoea. (' Dubl. Quart. Journ. of Med. Science,' vol. xxxv, p. i.).—"Dr. T. Chambers asserts that gonor- rhoea, if let alone, will get well spontaneously in two or three weeks. Certainly the milder forms get well on surprisingly little treatment. For years I have not given either cubebs or copaiva at all. They are, perhaps, useful drugs, but I have not found it necessary to use them ; tlie disease, as I have met with it, admitting of a ready cure by less unpleasant remedies. In persons of full habit and great vigour, I generally give a saline purgative at tlie commencement, followed up by miuute doses of tartar emetic, if there be much constitutional disturb- ance or a tendency to high local inflammation. Cold affusion will also be of service in these cases. The main treatment, however, is by injec- tions ; not heroic solutions of nitrate of silvei', which are eminently uncertain and dangerous in their action, but by weak, and frequently repeated, solutions of alum. The rule for applying injections is simple:—if the inflammation be severe, let the solution be weak and frequently used ; if it be of chronic type, let the solution be strong and seldom used. This is the key to the successful use of injections ; and not only is the rule applicable in gonorrhoea of the urethra and of the conjunctiva, but it may be extended (with necessary modification) to the treatment of all inflammations, and to the use of internal remedies as external applications." " In the most acute form of gonorrhoea, when the discharge is pro- fuse, thick, and glutinous,—the lips of the urethra red, villous, and pouting—the patient should be directed to pour a small jug of cold water over.the organ, and immediately inject a syringeful of solution of alum of the strength of half a grain to the ounce. This injection is to be repeated every half hour for the first day, and as often at night as the intervals of sleep will allow. In all probability, before twenty-four hours have elapsed, the secretion will be lessened in quantity, and somewhat thinner; the local lieat, swelling, and redness will have abated ; and the ardor urinas will have almost disappeared, if the saline purgative and the tartar emetic have been used along with the local treatment. The injection may then be increased to a grain to the ounce, and used every hour ; in all probability, after the lapse of forty- eight hours more, the discharge will have ceased entirely ; the injections, however, must be continued for another week or two—but at the strength of half a drachm to the eight ounces—three times a day ; otlier- ■wise a relapse may occur, which will be harder to cure than the original clap.EEPOUT ON SUHGEEY. 338 " In the common forms of gonorrlicea, when local inflammation and general fever are not Bevere, and where the discharge and ardor urina) are the only sources of discomfort, little internal medicine need he given—a purgative pill or so if necessary, and a few drops of liquor kali in gum-water or camphor mixture, with a pill of liyoscyamus, cam- phor, and morphia at night, will he enough. Here, however, the judgment of the surgeon will be called into play in each case to apjwr- tiou the strength and frequency of the injection. The general rule has been given above; in carrying it out, the amount of discharge—its con- dition, purulent or half mucous—the appearance of the orifice of the urethra—and the amount of ardor urinte will guide us. If the discharge is still abundant, puriform, and accompanied by redness of the lips of the urethra, and by considerable scalding, we must use weak solutions (eight to twelve grains to the eight ounces of water), every second, third, or fourth hour; but if, on the other hand, as will occur in old stagers, the discharge is half mucous, the lips blue and the scalding not complained of much, we may advance in strength to a drachm, and diminish in frequency to three or four times a day. If a syringeful is injected, we may spare our patient much of the unpleasant scalding by injecting before micturition. This treatment will cure an ordinary gonorrhoea in from four days to a week—at least, it will in that time stop all discharge; but, as in the acute types, the injections must be continued for several days lest a relapse occur, as is sure to he the case after excitement or errors in diet, and sometimes without such provocation. " Grleet, the opprobrium of this branch of* surgery, is not unfre- quently kept up by over-anxiety to cure it. The introduction of a bougie smeared with lard and dusted over with powdered alum, or a single touch of nitrate of silver by means of a j)orte caustique, not repeated more than twice, and at an interval of a week, will sometimes succeed, provided nothing else is done in the interval, and the organ get sufficient rest. I have occasionally cured a gleet by first adminis- tering muriated tincture of iron and tincture of opium, in doses of fifteen drops of the former to five of the latter, three times a day, and thus rendering the discharge more genuinely puriform. When this efi'ect follows, a spontaneous cure will sometimes arise; and if not, the injections of alum will often now succeed, though they previously failed." Prof Bernatzik on cubebs, chemically and physiologically (' Prag. Viertelj.,' 1864, i, 9). D. Hicguet on the treatment, &c. (Paris, A. Delahaye). J. Popham, case of gonorrhceal rheumatism, successfidly treated with the tincture of larch (' Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' vol. xxxvi, p. 478). C. Hardy, memoir on gonorrhoeal abscesses (Paris, A. Delahaye). J. G-. Eich on permanganate of potash (' Canada Lancet;' 'Edinb. Med. Journ.,' X, 259). A. Ott, case of acute prostatitis after injections (' Priui Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 300). SXPUILIS. A. Guerin, clinical lectures on the diseases of the external genitals239 EXCISION OF CHANCRES. of the female (Paris, A. Delahaye). 0. Drysdale, treatment of sy- philis without mercury (Lond., Bailliere). H. Kobner, clinical and experimental communications, &c. (Erlangen, Euke). Dr. Hardy, lectures on scrofula and syphilis (Paris, A. Delahaye). W. Miehr, commvmications from Lindwurm's clinic for syphilitic and cutaneous diseases (pp. 112, Miinchen, 1864). . , , . Dr. Sperk on syphilis in Siberia (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr., vi, 254). M. Daga on syphilis among the Arabs (' Arch. Gen. de Med.,' 1864, ii, 158, 287). Dr. Kobner in a paper on auto-inoculability of the syphilitic virus ('Deutsche Klinik,' 1863, p. 483) gives some cases vrhich show that after excision of mucous tubercles the pus secreted by the wounded surface is inoculable on the patient himself. Prof. AValler on the duality of syphilis ('Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, pp. 34, 42). M. Sperino's doctrines ('Lane.,' 1864, i, 226). B. Hill, two cases showing a prolonged incubation, and caused by secondary contagion ('Lane.,' 1864, i, 696). a. Vealeon excision of indurated cliancre ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' x, 13). —" Until an indurated chancre has been followed by enlargement of the lymphatics in the neighbourhood, I am of opinion that it is both justifiable and expedient to obtain the destruction of the part affected by it, for which purpose excision is especially applicable when the sore happens to be seated on any part which, like the prepuce, admits of ablation without detriment or disfigurement to the patient. I make this statement with the utmost possible deference for those observers who aifirm that it is useless to extipate an indurated chancre. I do not pretend to deny that most frequently, when the induration has become manifest, the entrance of the poison into the system is inevitable, and has perhaps already taken place ; but I think it is an error to conclude that the induration is the result of the general contamination and a proof of it. For, if it were so, why should it occur only once ? why should we be unable to reproduce it by a subsequent inoculation ? why should not every superficial solution of continuity occurring at this period also undergo the same process ? and why should it occur only at the site of inoculation ? It would seem to be more probable that the specific induration is a strictly local process, dependent, it may be, upon the conjunction of several conditions ; of which, however, the fol- lowing may be regarded as the chief:—Pirst, the constitution must have been previously free from syphilitic infection. It must not have undergone that kind of leucocytosis which the syphilitic virus produces, [ndeed, every leuksemic state seems to be adverse to the process of nduration: for we find that in women, in whom a chloro-anaemic or leukemic state is more common than in men, the induration of chancres is much less frequent; and it is also observed that a chloro-auoemic state jf the system, however produced, delays the specific induration even in nen. Secondly, a certain degree of activity or concentration of the nrus seems to be necessary; for, according to several observers, the nduration produced by inoculation through the medium of the blood )r with the fluid of certain secondary lesions, is not so well marked as' ;liat which results from the action of the virus implanted directly fromI ^^^^ • llEPOHT ON SUllGJillY. a chancre. Thirdly, certaiu purely local conditions seem to be iavorable altbovigh by no means essential. Tims the process of induration it- usually nnich more complete on tlic prepuce and on the lipw, for ex- ample, than it is on the trunk, and it may perhaps be owing to a similai- special aptitude or affinity that the lymphatic glands are so conslautlj- and readily aftected by it. " It may, perhaps, be objected, however, that oftentimes when a. chancre has been cauterized or excised, the wound, although made in parts previously unindurated, has been observed to undergo induration. But if this be a proof of the action of the virus through the medium ol the blood, or of systemic infection, why is it that superficial solutione- of continuity happening simultaneously in other parts, do not also become indurated ? Every day's experience shows that they do not, and yet the same blood and the same constitutional state exist for them i as for the part that is undergoing induration. AVhy again, it may be asked, is a reproduction of induration in a wound made for excising aa true chancre to be regarded as a proof of constitutional infection more ■ than the reproduction of an epithelial cancer after imperfect extirpation ? The reproduction of the induration after excision much more probably proves that the quantity of tissue removed has not been sufficient; it pei'haps also proves, that although the syphilitic virus may have passed ■ into the blood, the true syphilitic diathesis has not yet been produced; finally, it may prove the extremely gradual extension of the poison from the primary centre or centres, and may serve as an argument not" against the propagation of the poison through the medium of the blood, but in favour of a quite different explanation. If we withdrew ourr , minds from the too exclusive contemplation of the part played in the animal body by the vessels and their contents, we shall perhaps be all • the more ready to admit the possibility of the syphilitic poison extend- ing itself from cell to cell, very much after the manner of cancer. Indeed, in more than one respect, the analogy between cancer and; v syphilis is becoming every day more and more apparent. But, however that maybe, it will perhaps be allowed that the e^ddence in favour- of the theory vrhich attempts to account for the extension of the process of induration by reference to what is vaguely called systemic infection is not clear, whereas the view that the syphilitic virus disse-- minates itself through the contiguous cells, and is carried away by the lymphatics, in the same way as cancer, becomes more and more tenable the more we examine it. Although, therefore, it is established by ; clinical observation that the specific induration of a sore only becomes ■ ; perceptible to us, as a rule, after the poison has entered tlie system, there is nothing in the mere fact of induration which should cause us • to regard the constitutional infection as either present or inevitable. Such induration ought rather to be regarded as the direct result of the syphilitic poison upon a part suited to undergo the process, and there is consequently no reason, theoretically, why the excision of a chancre should not often be as successful as the excision of its analogue—cancer;. but in order to be so, it must be conducted on the same principles. It must obviously be a difficult matter to aftbrd practical proof of the ■■, truth of this conclusion, because, as yet, we cannot exactly determine I241 EXCISION OF CHANCUES, tlie difterence between a specific and an accidental induration, but it is at least safe for me to say that I have occasionally seen cases in which, after the extirpation of an apparently specifically indurated sore, tliere has been no evidence of systemic infection. But whatever may be the eventual verdict on this point, it is almost universally admitted that wlien the lymphatics have once become involved, the treatment of the sore alone is not sufficient. The poison having entered the system, it must be combated by constitutional remedies." Dr. Humphry remarks in his address on surgery ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, ii, 175) that "the mercurial plan, especially for the in- durated form, is again in the ascendant, and, I think, deservedly so. ^Regarding the primary sore or spot as the continuing source, as well as the origin, of infection to the system, we can have no question of the importance of eradicating it as quickly as possible; and what \ye especially require is some more rapid and eifective means of doing this. The milder caustics seem to me simply to increase the amount of in- duration ; and the severer ones, even when freely applied, very often fail to destroy it. I was accordingly led to try the removal of the sore Avith the knife, when it admitted of being easily and completely in- sulated—in the cases, for instance, of chancre on the prepuce, especially near the margin, or on its exterior (and, in this latter situation, they are, in my experience, peculiarly liable to be followed by secondary symptoms). I am, in such cases, in the habit of removing the prepuce. The earlier it is done, of course, the better the prospect of comijlete eradication of the malady. Even at a late period, when secondary symptoms have set in, tlie primary lump still being large and hard, I have sometimes followed the same course, believing that the removal of that, which seems to be, not merely a source, but a maintenance of infection, would facilitate the cure of the patient; and I have found reason to be satisfied with the practice under these circumstances. The wound has in every instance healed kindly. I would warn those who may be disposed to resort to this summary method, that the incision should be carried quite wide of the base of the sore, so as to include a clear and considerable margin of liealthy skin and tissue with it; for in this, as in cancer, the influence of the disease extends for an uncertain distance around its apparent site ; and I have, in some instances, been di-sappointed at the recurrence of induration in the cicatrix, when I had not been sufficiently careful on this point. I would warn them also against giving too strong an assurance of immunity fronj a sub- yequent appearance of the disorder; for it is im])0S3ible to tell when the infection of the system begins, and wliether, therefore, in any par- ticular case, it has taken place; neither do we know what is the period of incubation, or whether there is any regular period ; and I have seen secondary symptoms commence after the wound caused by ablation of the primary sore had healed with a sound soft cicatrix. They have, liowevcr, been slight. I think the prospect may be represented thus: if induration has not taken place, or is only commencing, the probability of an appearance of secondary symptoms, after the complete removal of the sore, is very slight; and, if they do appear, they are not likely to be severe. If the induration has set in, the operation will diminish the 16llJiPOJiT ON SUiiGEJiV. probability of their occurrence ; and if they, in addition, have already appeared, it will facilitate their cure. After all, however, this treat- ment is applicable only to a few cases—to those, namely, where the prepuce or the exterior of the penis is the seat of the primary disease. I have not tried it in the female." O. F. Mmmder remarks ('Med. Mirror,' i, 17) that "instances of indurated chancre and of epithelioma occasionally occur in peculiar lo- calities and under unusual circumstances, rendering a careful investi- gation necessary, in order to avoid errors in diagnosis." He relates three cases,—one of epithelioma on the vulva in a healthy looking woman of twenty-six, one of indurated chancre on the lower lip in a man, aged fifty-five years, and a third of indurated chancre on the penis of a boy of ten. He tabulates the differential diagnosis as follows: EPITHELIOMA Generally recurs after operation — usually observed after the middle period of life—surface and margin more or less hard, irregular, minutely nodulated, and sooner or later attended by.sanious and offensive discharge — attended by an adenopathy after the lapse of months,— Painful. INDUBATED CHANCEE Occurs only once in the same person (one exception has been recorded), and at any period of life—surface more or less smooth, aud only just moist—at- tended by an adenopathy after the lapse of days.—Painless. M. Nodet, on the diiFerent kinds of chancre (Paris, A. Delahaye). Dr. Bondi, case of mixed chancre ('Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 146). A. Martin on the indurated chancre ('Arch. Gen. de Med.,' 1864, i, 221). Dr. Szabadfoldy on the occurrence of movable cells in a primary syphilitic pustule ('Arch, fiir path. Anat.,' vol. xxix, p. 470). Messrs. Kluyskens and Hairion on the treatment of bubo by the local use of iodine and methodical compression ('Bull. Beige,' 1862, p. 5°°)- Constitutional syphilis.—E. Cfuntz on syphilitic fever ('Kiichen- meister's Zeitschr.,'ii, 3 ; and Sachs'' Med. Alman.'for 1864, p. 189).— Syphilitic fever occurs in adults during the commencement of the con- stitutional symptoms ; its course varies mucli^ depending, as it does, on the local changes. Its principal characteristics may be enumerated as follows :— 1. Greneral (premonitory) symptoms, the earliest being sometimes slight fever, are observed before the occurrence of the eruption. 2. From the time of infection to the occurrence of general symptoms the temperature is normal. 3. "With the appearance of the eruption the _ temperature continues abnormal, or becomes so provided it had not previously risen—increasing on an average in not very violent cases to 30*4 E. in the evening, with a morning remission to 29*9 E. 4. The fever increases with the extension of the eruption on the skin, averages in severe cases 31 E., with a morning remission to 30-9 E., continues at this height for two, three, or four days, and then sinks during a series of days or even weeks (two to three) to the normal. 5. The pulse varies in proportion to the temperature, thus at 31 R- there are on an average 110 beats in the minute.24.3 SYPHILITIC FEVER. I 6. The time, when the fever ceases, depends on the degree of the local lesions, on the intestinal catarrh, and on the coryza. 7. The fever ceases at a late period when fresh eruptions take place, at each of which the temperature increases some tenths of a degree. 8. The fever is so slight in many cases, especially in robust and otherwise healthy persons, as not to be noticed by the patients them- selves ; it can, however, be detected by the thermometer. Among other interesting examples of constitutional syphilis under Prof. EUhle ('G-reifsw. Med. Beitr.,' ii; Eeport, p. 63), we find the following:—A woman was admitted into the hospital with the diagnosis of "pulmonary phthisis in its last stage." She was emaciated to the utmost degree ; on the right side under the clavicle there was moderate dulness and bronchial respiration; on the left side in front the breathing was indistinct. On the back the percussion-sound was normal; on the right side, over a great extent, but gradually becoming less intense from above downwards, there was loud bronchial breathing, with clear but scanty rattling; on the upper part of the left side also the breathing was bronchial. The voice was entirely lost. The uvula and a considerable part of the soft palate were wanting; there were ulcerations both on the soft and hard palate. The epiglottis felt rough and irregular. There was great difficulty in breathing and in swal- lowing. Prom the state of the pharynx and larynx syphilis was diagnosed; although the patient was wasted to a skeleton, yet as the most im- mediate danger was from the laryngeal disease, inunction was com- menced, half a drachm of mercurial ointment being rubbed into the thigh morning and night. Easily digestible food, broth, milk, &c., were given, and mercurial stomatitis was prevented by diligent gargling with cold water and astringents. The ulcers in the pharynx were almost entirely healed after this treatment had been continued for six weeks; the difficulty of breathing, the cough, and the stridor had di- minished. The bronchial breathing at the back had also gradually : lessened, though the dulness at the apex still persisted. The patient 1 had become much stouter. Preparations of iodine were then admin- istered, and continued for a long period. At a later period laryngo- I scopic examination showed that the epiglottis was almost entirely destroyed, the true vocal cords were normal, the posterior wall between the arytenoid cartilages much swollen and mammillated, though pale in colour. At a later period she was repeatedly attacked by inflammation of the conjunctiva and cornea of the right eye, and by periosteal affections of the skull, nose, sternum, and tibite. The condition of the larynx, however, improved, the voice steadily becoming louder and purer. "When discharged, she was in excellent condition. H. Zeissl, 'Treatise on Constitutional Syphilis' (pp. 43a, Erlangen, P. Enke). A. Reumont, 'Contributions to the Pathology and Treatment of Constitutional Syphilis ' (Erlangen, E. Enke). Prof Zeissl on syphilitic aifections of the skin (' "Wien. Med. Halle,' ' 1864, pp. 41, 62). J. Hutchinson, rare forms of disease consequent on syphilis ('jSrit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, i, 440; 1864, ii, 263). J. L. Bieden- . kamp, sketch of the different treatments employed at the University244. IIKPOIIT ON StillGEaY, Hospital, Qhristiauia, 186.3 (vide 'Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 186,3, ii, 468). W. Pettors oil broad coudyloinata ('Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, ])p. 205, 21,3). Dr. Kleiiiiiaus ou sypliilitic lierpes ('lierl. Klin. Woclieuschr.,' 1864, pp. 170, 181). T. Keade, the growth, progrews, and present state of knowledge of nervous syphilitic diseases ('Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' vol. x.\xvi, p. ,324). H. C. Brodrick, ou sternal tenderness as a sign of constitutional syphilis ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' ix, 468). A. Dron on syphilitic disease of the epididymis (' Arch. Gen. de Med.,' 186,3,11,513,724). T. M'Call Anderson on syphilitic pemphigus in the adult ('Grlasg. Med. Journ.,' xii, 1,38). F. Mosler, case of leuco- cythsemia from syphilis ('Berl. Klin. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 15, &c.). Congenital si/philis,—W. AUingham on the treatment of congenital syphilis (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1863, ii, 453). T. Bryant, disease of the testicle (ibid., 614). M. Boger on hereditary si/philis ('Med. Circ.,' vol. xxv, p. 158).— The death of the child in utero and abortion are frequent consequences of the transmission of the taint to the foetus. AVhen three miscarriages occur in succession in the same woman, the presence of syphilis should be strongly suspected. The bodies of infants who perish under these circumstances are soft and flabby; the cuticle is detached, exposing the dark hue of the derma; the viscera also present signs of the infection. M. Depaul has described fibro-plastic or purulent deposits, which occur in the lungs ; the lobules are in a state of induration, which is considered characteristic by A. Guerin, and the liver presents a flinty colour and granular aspect, to which M. Gubler has called attention. Supposing, however, that pregnancy has reached its full term, the child may present, in addition to the appearances we have enumerated, and to others of a very serious nature in the thymus and periosteum, an external symptom indicative of syphilis, viz., pemphigus. This is the only secondary eruption which is not ushered in by any premonitory signs, and, although unfrequent, is viewed by M. Eoger as pathognomonic. It cannot be mistaken for simple pemphigus, which never breaks out before the sixth, eighth, or even tenth month after birth. The simple form of the disease is moreover discrete, whereas the syphilitic variety is abundant, especially over the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. The contents of the bulla) are serous in the former and puriform in the latter, in which, in addition, the hand assumes a bluish tinge, and the complexion a cachectic hue ; the bullas display a tendency to ulceration, and a fatal issue occurs in eleven out of twelve cases, doubtless ou account of coincident visceral complications. These various circum- stances supply a sufficient clue to the diagnosis of syphilitic pemphigus occurring shortly after birth. When the hereditary taint is not thus immediately revealed by the appearance of pemphigus, no other external manifestations of syphilis occur for a fortnight. Thus, M. Cullerier has only twice in ten years observed symptomatic psoriasis in the first two or three days of extra- uterine life. The presence of the poison in the blood seldom gives rise to papular or pustular manifestations around tiie anus, in the inguinal region, or to specific coryza before the cliild is at least a fortnight old. Of 235 instances of hereditary syphilis collected by M. lloger, theSYPHILITIC DISEASE OP THE SPINAL COUD. 245 symptoms broke out in the course of the first month, and generally in the second fortnight of that month, in 112; in 92^cases the secondaries appeared in the second and third months; and in 31 cases only after that date. Hence it appears that a child may be born with the poison in his system, and yet present for a fortnight the outward appearance of perfect health. Others, ou the contrary, have a distressingly aged aspect, and, having already reached the latest stage of secondary disease, are, indeed, at death's door; in most instances they are extremely feeble, and are sometimes covered with pemphigus. When the affection seta in at the usual period, the integument assumes a characteristic dark- brown hue, and at the same time various eruptions appear, together with the special coryza. This chronic irritation of the Schneiderian membrane is essentially different from that caused by cold. The latter usually supervenes two or three days after the infant's birth, and coin- cides with epiphora and bronchitis. Syphilitic coryza at first occasions dryness of the mucous membrane, and impedes the breathing ; a sero- purulent secretion soon follows, sometimes tinged with blood, and con- taining squaraas, which indicate superficial ulceration. The concomitant eruptions generally consist in roseola and psoriasis of the palm of the hand and sole of the foot. M. Eoger also points out the frequency of mucous tubercles of the mouth and of the anus. H. Bohn on the transmission of syphilis by vaccination (' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' vol. 120, p. 97). Disease of the spinal cord, 2}ossibly of syphilitic origin (' Dubl. Med. Press,' 2nd ser., ix, 659).—E. "Winge exhibited at a meeting of the Nor- wegian Medical Society, the spinal cords of two patients, both of whom had suffered from syphilis, been treated with mercury, and had died in the Royal Hospital. In the first, a man, aged 39, paraplegia occurred, bed-sores formed, and he died, appa,rently from thrombosis. The principal disease was found in the spinal cord, attaining its maxi- I mum in the middle of the dorsal portion. A transverse section showed ; that the white substance was almost entirely replaced by a grayish- i yellow, transparent mass, much resembling solidified mucus. In the i cranium a small exostosis on the inside of the parietal bone, and traces ^ ; of osteophytes on the os froutis were found. In the second case, the j changes were confined to the membranes. The patient, a man of 33, had twelve years previously been treated for syphilis with mercury. I He was admitted into the hospital for supposed hepatitis. No relapse '1 of the syphilis had been observed. Whilst under treatment, tenderness I and pains in the lumbar region supervened, with considerable hy- I persesthesia and neuralgic pains in both thighs, finally motor paralysis I of tlie lower extremities, difficulty in passing urine, bed-sores, and, i lastly, obstinate hiccough ensued ; these symptoms persisted until death I occurred from dyspnoea. On dissection, the spinal dura mater was ! found to be everywhere attached to the arachnoid by a false membrane, which, in its lower half, was almost as thick as the dura mater. " The morbid process was in this instance of a more specifically inflammatory character—a meningitis spinalis gummosa; in the first case, on the contrary, it was an atrophy of the nerve-fibres of the spinal cord, withIfRl'ORT ON SUllOEllY. fatty degenei'atiou and development of corpora amylaeea—a process analogous to the so-called gray degeneration of the posterior columns of the spinal cord, the anatomical basis of most cases of tabes dorsalis." O. Lancereaux on the visceral Unions connected with constitutional syphilis (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, p. 1501, &C.).—Syphilitic afl'ections of the ■viscera generally present anatomical characters sufficiently constant and distinct to indicate the cause on which they depend. They may all be naturally grouped under three forms, {a) that of interstitial inflamma- tion, (i) the gummy, and (c) the cicatricial form. Certain organs, as the liver and testicle, which contain a large amount of fibrous tissue, are more especially the seat of the first form. New elements, nuclei, cells, and fibres of connective tissue are developed; they cause at first increased volume, and at a later period retraction and atrophy of the aifected organ. At the latter period the surface of the glands mentioned is traversed by furrows and depressions, which give a peculiarly characteristic appearance. In the liver there is a lobular cirrhosis (cirrhosis with large granules), which is very different from the granular disease of drunkards (cirrhosis with small granules). This form is less distinct in the other viscera, as the brain, kidney, lung, or heart; in these organs, indeed, it bears the characters of cerebral sclerosis or softening, of interstitial nephritis, of pneumonia, and of chronic myocarditis. The second anatomical form of visceral syphilis is characterised by tumours of the size of a pea, a nut, or even a bean (gummata or gummy tumours). Differing little according to the organ, these tumours are firm or soft, of grayish, yellowish, or whitish colour, according to their age and the relative proportions of their histological elements, nuclear, cellular, and fibrous ; they are generally placed within dense, fibrous, grayish, vascular, and firmly resisting tissue, forming a kind of capsule, from which they may occasionally be enucleated; the presence of such a covering is, in the author's opinion, one of their best characters and often sufiicient to differentiate them from tubercular, cancerous, and other new formations. In their earliest stage these gummy tumours are formed of the embryonal elements of connective tissue; at a later • period they undergo retrograde or fatty changes. Hence it is possible for them to be again spontaneously absorbed, though even then they may leave behind them various lesions, such as cyst-like membranes in the brain, fibrous bands or cicatrices in the liver; thus even wlien the gummy tumour has disappeared, the latter point to its previous existence. In some cases, however, syphilitic tumours undergo a calcareous and not a fatty metamorphosis. Differing from cancer, from fibrous or fibro-plastic tumours, both by their defective vascularity and by the characters already mentioned, syphilitic tumours are more likely to be confounded with tubercular or scrofulous lesions, with vascular atheroma, with the products of glanders or farcy. Yet it is still possible to distinguish them from the latter affections by the characters already assigned and by attentive examina- tion of all the diseased organs, more especially of the liver. The cicatricial is in reality merely a termination of the preceding forms; it is characterised by the presence, on the surface of organs, ofVISCERAL SYPHILIS. 247 I single or multiple, simple or starred, cicatricial furrows, of more or less deep depressions, and of fibrous bands or layers in the parencbyma. Of tbese lesions, the former differ from the atrophies wliich result from the obliteration of vessels, by the presence of a considerable amount of fibrous tissue at the depressed spot, and by their not following the course of the vessels. They are distinguished from traumatic cicatrices by the absence of the colouring matter of the blood. The latter varieties may be differentiated from absorbed or cicatrized purulent collections by their multiplicity and the absence of purulent detritus in and around the cicatricial membrane. To these anatomical forms we may add one which is peculiar to glands ; it is hypertrophy witb or without change in the active elements. Out of twenty-four cases the author found hypertrophy of the spleen, ten times, of the deep lymphatic glands, ten times, of the thyroid, four times, of the supra-renal capsules, twice. Tinally, in some cases he found the follicles of the base of the tongue, pharynx, and tonsils hypertro- phied. These glandular lesions are usually accompanied by an altera- tion in the blood and cachexia. The fatty, amyloid, lardaceous, or waxy degenerations of the organs, especially of the liver and kidney, are met with in many cases ; there is, however, every reason to believe that they are not developed, like the preceding alterations, from the immediate influence of syphilis ; moreover they accompany a great number of other diseases with cachexia, particularly when the bones are diseased. Of all the viscera, the liver is the most frequently aftected by syphilis. The author has noted interstitial hepatitis or syphilitic cirrhosis, thrice; gummata without cicatrices, once ; cicatrices without gummata, seven times; cicatrices of the surface of the liver with gummata in its interior, eleven times. In most cases the liver was adherent to the diaphragm or adjacent viscera; there had consequently been perihepatitis, an affec- tion Avhich was never observed isolated. Out of the same number of cases there were in the kidney interstitial nephritis, thrice; nephritis with waxy degeneration, twice; little dis- seminated tumours, once ; cicatrices of the sui'face, with atrophy, twice. The testicles in three cases presented the following lesions; gummy masses causing increased size of both testicles, with complete disappear- ance of the glandular elements, once; gummy growths in the one, and interstitial orchitis of the other, testis, once; periorchitis, once. In I some other cases, the testes have been atrophied, the atrophy being I apparently only a termination of interstitial orchitis of syphilitic i origin. The author has also met with alterations in the ovaries very I analogous to those of the testis just mentioned. In the brain, the author has seen old gummy tumours which had in part undergone fatty degeneration, twice ; a cyst-like membrane with numerous partitions occupying the greater part of the right anterior lobe, with secondary atrophy of the corresponding anterior pyramid and of the antero-lateral fasciculus of the opposite side, once ; cicatrices i. on the surface of one of the convolutions and a cicatricial fibrous band i at the junction of the gray and white substance, once; amyloid de- fi generation of the choroid plexus and softening of the pons (once).248 REPOUT ,0N SUIIGEEY. In the lungs, chronic pneumonia and deep cavities with smooth and regular walls, twice; gummy growtlis, thrice ; cicatrices on the surface once; contraction witli dilatation of the bronchi, twice ; cicatrices and ulcerations of the pharynx (larynx?) many times; ulcerations of the larger bronchial tubes, once. The forms of disease observed in the heart were,—distinct guinmv myocarditis, characterised by the presence of tumours in the midst of fibrous tissue, with alteration or even the disappearance of most of the muscular fibres, twice ; simple myocarditis, once ; lardaceous degenera- tion, twice; in some of these cases sudden death resulted from the cardiac lesion. In general, the functional affections excited by syphilitic lesions of the viscera do not possess any specific characters. Each diseased organ manifests its suffering by an aberration of its own peculiar function; hence it results that the symptoms not only vary according to the organ affected, but also, for a single organ, according to the position and extent of the disease. In these cases the clinical diagnosis must depend upon the history of the case, upon the existence or previous occurrence of other syphilitic symptoms; it is, however, well to take into account the age, to examine the liver with the utmost care, for the changes in its form are often characteristic, and to examine the urine for albumen. The simultaneous occurrence of disease in several vis- cera must also be considered; and still more important is the special cachexia which almost invariably accompanies visceral syphilis. The prognosis is, as the rule, serious ; yet it should be remembered that much depends on the special organ affected. Specific treatment (mercurials and iodide of potassium) properly em- ployed, often causes rapid disappearance of symptoms even threatening life. Of course these remedies have no power over the cicatricial form. A point, that should not be forgotten, is that the treatment should in cases of visceral syphilis be continued for a lengthened period; such appears to be the best plan of preventing a recurrence of the disease. Prof. Jaksch, clinical lectures on syphilitic affections of internal organs ('Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. i, &c.). Cases of syphilitic disease of the larynx (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, i, 253). M. Boecivcl, on syphilitic stricture of the trachea (' Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1864, p. 11.) Dr. Bolze on syphiloma ('Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 301). H. Maudsley, syphilitic disease of the brain ('Jouru. of Mental Science,' x, 82). Dr. Liedesdorf on syphilitic disease of the brain and insanity ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1864,'p. 88), and some cases ('Wien. Med. Jahrb.,' 1864, ii, 112). R. Kuh, case of cerebritis syphilitica ('Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 18(54, V- ^^4). M. Leven, syphilitic tumour of the cerebellum (' Graz. d. Hop.,' 1864, p. 105). E. Wagner, on syphiloma of the liver ('Arch. d. Heilk.,' 18154, p. 121). M. Herard (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, p. 523). Dr. 11. Haldane, case of cirrhosis with syphilitic deposit ('Ediub. Med. Jouru.,' ix, 1074). Dr. Eudnow, syphilitic disease of the liver and kidney (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitsclir.,' vi, 256). Be2)ort ofacommitiee (Drs. Steffens, Hgelerg, and Toss) on siipliilisalion ('Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 122).—The cases on which the249 REPORT ON SYPHILISATION. committee reported were observed in the departments of Prof. Boeek and Dr. Hjort, during a period of three years (1856-9). Since then three years more have passed, during wliieh time the committee has con- stantly kept the patients in view, so that any recm-rences could be noted. The first question discussed is that of the immunity loith reference to fresh infection, which is bestowed by inoculation. The committee confirms the statement that the effects of inoculation repeated dm-iug a lengthened period become gradually less, and finally cease altogether. On the other hand, it is remarked, that:— 1. After such is the state in one part of the body, for example, the chest, a positive result can still be gained elsewhere, e.g. on the extre- mities. As it is practically impossible to inoculate every point of the whole surface, the existence of perfect immunity cannot be proved. 2. There may be immunity with reference to the syphilitic pus of one individual, and yet the normal reaction follows inoculation with that taken from another patient. So also may the pus of an inocula- tion-sore be entirely inert on the person himself, and yet produce normal pustules on a second person, whilst in the former a chancre is produced by the pus furnished by a third case. .3. Moreover, the immunity appears to be only temporary: it was found that persons who for a time were inoculated without effect, again became sensitive to the poison at a later period. Cases also were not rare, in which after the occurrence of immunity and apparent cure, tlie disease recurred, and was again treated by syphilisation, thus sliow- ing that the patients had again become sensitive to the virus. 4. There may be immunity and yet the syphilitic symptoms persist, thus proving that the former is not a sign of the disappearance of the syphilitic diathesis. As to the curative influence of sy^Mlisation tlie committee states that too short a period has yet elapsed for it to admit the permanency of the recoveries, and to pronounce the impossibility of further (tertiary) relapses. The value of this method must for the present be decided by comparing its results with those of other means. 1. Ninety-two patients, of every age, who were treated in Boeck's division for secondary symptoms of acquired syphilis, and who had not previously taken mercury, gave the following results with syphilisa- tion :— a. 69 cures = 75 per cent., with an average period of treatment of 150 days. h. 14 recurrences = per cent.; among these, in each of 4 patients the disease recurred twice, and in one case thrice. c. 9 cases without any certain result = 9-8 per cent. 2. Only in one patient who had been treated for " secondary" symp- toms by syphilisation, were there observed, nine months after the first recurrence, " tertiary" symptoms (for which the iodide of potassium was administered). He did not know whether he had been previously treated with mercury. 3. Eight children, of whom six suffered from hereditary syphilis, were borne by six women, who had been previously treated with syphi- lisation for secondary symptoms by Prof. Boeck, and who had been /250 R13P0RT OX SUllGEUY. supposed to be cured. A woman under Dr. Hjort was treated by syphilisation in 1856, and three years later liad a cliild which sufl'ered from hereditary syphilis; another woman, treated in the same way in 1856, had two years later a child which only lived two days. 4. As to the influence of syphilisation on tertiary symptoms, no con- clusion could be drawn from the three cases observed. 5. Of X2 children sufl'ering from hereditary syphilis, 5 were cured; in I the disease recui-red, and 6 died during the treatment, 5 between the fifteenth and thirty-fifth days of treatment, i on the hundred and thirty-fifth day. 6. A cure was generally not effected by syphilisation in cases of secondary or tertiary syphilis, when the patient had previously taken mercury. As these patients received at the same time or alternately iodide of potassium, no further conclusion could be arrived at. 7. In affections of the nervous system and of the internal organs, syphilisation has little or no efi'ect. In reference to the influence of this treatment on the general health of the persons inoculated, it was found that:— I. It caused no particular pain or other trouble. a. The treatment was attended with some pain in only rare cases, where the ulcers produced by inoculation considerably enlarged, became confluent, or phagedsenic; in such cases it sometimes exercised a per- nicious influence on the general health. 3. After the termination of the treatment the patient had, almost without exception, a healthy appearance and felt active and strong. 4. These patients took no special precautions after their discharge from the hospital; they do not appear to have been more sensitive to other diseases afterwards, than healthy persons in general. Dr. Hjort tried some experiments with autimonial plaster with the view of determining whether syphilisation owes its effects to some specific quality of the ulcer, or simply to " depuration " effected by the ulcerative process. The committee found that:— No condition occurred analogous to the so-called immunity after syphilisation. In little children it was followed by considei'able reac- tion. In general it gave more pain and trouble than syphilisation. The pustules and ulcers discharged but little, were unequal in size, and a vesiculo-papular eruption sometimes appeared suddenly on other parts of the body. Phagedrena was not observed. The results were, that:— 1. In 7'5 patients, of whom three only were under five yeai-s of age, suffering from acquired secondary syphilis, who had not been treated with mercury, a. Cure, without recurrence up to the time of the report in 43 = 57-3 per cent.; the duration of the treatment averaged 151 days. h. Eecurrence in 14 = 187 per cent.; the disease twice recurred in each of two patients, and thrice in one case. c. No definite result in 18 = 24 per cent. 2. In none of these cases have tertiary symptoms hitherto appeared, 3. Of four women suffering from secondary syphilis, who had never 1TEE/VTMBNT OF ANTHRAX. 251 taken mercury aud who were treated in this way, two had immature dead cliiidren, one a syphilitic child which died at the age of six months, and one child was said, after a year and a half, to be still healthy and without any symptoms of syphilis. i i , 4. The same result was found with this treatment m persona who had previously taken mercury, as with syphilisation. f. The influence of the general health was, with the exception of the pain, just the same as that of syphilisation. Mercuri/.—A. Kussmaul on chronic mercurialism (' Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 130). H. Lee, unusually severe case cured by calomel fumi- gation (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1*864, i- 389)- E. W. Pollard on the treatment of syphilis by mercurial vapour (' Lane.,' 1864, ii, 116). Prof. Zeissl on absorption and excretion of mercury (' Wien. Med. Halle,' 1864, p. 282). Dr. Diday on the disadvantages of mercury ('Eevue de Therap.;' ' Edinb. Med. Journ.,' ix, 470). ELEPHAJSTTIASIS. Ml'. Fiddes, case of a/)nputationfor elephantiasis ('Trans, of the Path. Soc.,' xiv, 258).—After mentioning the enormous hypertrophy of the dermis, with the fatty degeneration of the muscles, found in such cases, the author states " that the disease never extends higher up than the knee, aud amputation through this joint, or rather immediately above it, making the flap from the gastrocnemius muscle, is that which answers best." He has repeatedly removed limbs so affected, with the happiest results, relieving the patients from a distressing infirmity, and enabling them to get about, and do something for a livelihood. A. Steffen, case of elephantiasis Arabum ('Arch, fiir klin. Ohir.,' iv, 599). ANTHEAX. M. JS. ColUs on the treatment of anthrax hy pressure (' Dubl. Quart. Journ. of Med. Science,' vol. xxxvii, p. 74).—The author states that the Beat of anthrax is deeper than the skin or subcutaneous cellular tissue. " This any one can satisfy himself upon byi dissection of a single anthrax; or, if sucli an opportunity be denied him, he has only to inspect the cavity of a large one from which the core has been wholly expelled, and to observe what parts are laid bare, as well as to note the deeply depressed cicatrix which marks the site when all is healed. Having done so, let him examine carefully the early stages of anthrax, on the looser skin of the sides, abdomen, eyelid, or any other part where the fascia is not closely bound to the skin by numerous strings and short bands of the corion, and he will find it in all such cases, not only subcutaneous, but deeper still, lying beneatli the lax areolar tissue, and in and beneath the fascia." " Anthrax is essentially an inflammation of dense fascia, in which the superficial areolar tissue is implicated, as in furuncle, and also the deep, as in phegmonoid erysipelas. There is along with, and resulting from this threefold inflammation, a copious exudation of lymph, which agglutinates the inflamed parts into an almost homogeneous yellowish- gray mass, destroying the vessels, and of necessity stopping the circu- lation ; hence a large and rapidly increasing core results. So peculiar252 KEPOUT ON SURGERY, is this core, that Nelaton classes ifc among false membranes, similar to those which form on tlie Hiirface of serous membranes. There is noine show of truth iu this notion of Ndlaton's, but it is only part of the truth, and not the main part either. The mode of extension of an- tlirax much resembles that of phlegmonous erysipelas—sub-fascial exudation goes on, cutting off the vascular supply to fascia, and, at the same time, exudation goes on superficial to the fascia, cutting off the vascular supply to the skin. This double exudation produces two sets of physical signs ; a broad elevation, equal in extent to that of the deep exudation, with livid or dusky red hue of skin, and hard cedema, ex- tending somewhat beyond that limit, points to deep subfascial inflam- mation. The brighter red of the skin round these openings is another sign of their being akin to simple follicular abscesses ; for though not so bright as in healthy phlegmon, the colour is less dull than it is in the outlying parts of the tumour. This superficial inflammation is of less extent than the deep, for the simple reason that its products get vent more quickly. The skin only has to be perforated, whereas in the other case, deep fascia and skin must both give way, and the fascia only gives way by becoming a dead slough, and by being cast off by a process of ulceration along its edges. This is a slow process, dui'ing which exudation advances, and the diseased action extends its limits." " Dublin surgeons, as a rule, have been in the habit of treating anthrax by the crucial incision of Abernethy. Some advise that the incision should reach from sound skin to sound skin. Even Mr. Led\vich, following the stern surgery of Tagart, and undeterred by the fatal cases he himself has quoted, gave in his adhesion to this practice. I have long been satisfied that this length of wound was a needless increase of risk and suffering to the patient, and that the mere extent of a crucial incision was of little consequence in comparison with its depth. If not deep enough to allow free vent to the dead core and matter, an incision is worse than useless—it is positively mischievous, and causes the disease to spread. To be deep enough it must penetrate the core, and tap the inflammatory exudation and purulent depot which lie beneath it, and which would not otherwise find a vent imtil the core had separated. When making the crucial incision it is easy to know if we have gone deep enough for our purpose. Should there be still much vitality in the integument, which we have cross-cut, the wound will gape widely, and the point of each angular flap will curl up considerabl3^ Even in advanced cases, where the skin is much undermined and thinner, and where it has not sufficient elasticity to curl up or retract, we shall be able to know if we have gone deep enough by lifting up the angles of the flaps in a forceps and feeling if they are well loosened from the parts underneath. If they do not yield at once, and freely, Ave must cut deeper, until we reach the subjacent muscle. The crucial hicision then, if adopted, must be deep to be of use in checking the spread of the disease and facilitating the repair of the affected part." As an example of the ti-eatment by pressure, we shall select the last of the four very interesting cases related by Mr. Collis. "A man of blanched aspect, prematurely old-looking, and with all the marks of poverty about him, had two anthraces—one on the point of the rightTREATMENT OF ANTHRAX. 253 scapula, of large size, and a smaller one in the axilla, near the scapula. The large one was about four inches by three in diameter, as regards the central boggy portion, with a livid margin, a couple of inches wide, all round. The small one, more prominent, was also more advanced, although later to appear. The core was beginning to separate in it, and it had ceased to spread. The larger one was still spreading—it was the seat of deep and burning pain, and had not commenced to open spontaneously. I strapped both with spiral strapping, covering the entire of the larger, and all but the centre of the small one. Not having soap plaster with opium at hand, I used common adhesive plaster. In twenty-four hours the improvement was marked. The pain had lost its burning character, the swelling had decreased, the lividity of the centre part was changed for a healthier red, and the edge of the outer margin was paler. The improvement continued from day to day ; a small central opening gave vent to a good deal of healthy pus; and in ten days not only was the core out completely, but the cavity from which it came was mostly healed up; and in three weeks he was well. I gave him a little bark during this period. He had no means to enable him to get good food or stimulants, and continued as an extern all the time. " Prom these cases, to which many others might be added, it is plainly evident that anthrax may be treated sometimes without incision. It is, I think, clear enough that we may pause over each case, and consider if it be necessary or advisable to resort to the knife. For my own part I am satisfied that, as a rule, anthrax need not be cut. I do not wish to be dogmatical, or to lay down an absolute rule that the crucial incision is to be entirely abandoned, but I am entitled to ask that it should not be held to be a sine qua non." " I have observed that as soon as the parts get support, the extension uf sub-fascial exudation ceases. This is the natural result of giving support round the margin of the inflamed part. The efforts of the matter to get vent are then directed towards the surface, and the neces- sary sloughing and ulcerative processes are more rapidly performed. I have also observed that the core is more extruded or pushed out than where incisions have been made. In the latter case we have often to pull at the core, and to dress the wounds with terebinthinates and other stimulating dressings before the sloughs separate. This has never been necessary where pressure was used. The core came out generallv in one mass, and a healing process seemed to have been going on behind it, so that the subsequent closing up of the cavity was rapidly effected. I may add that I have frequently used the soap plaster with opium, in common furuncle, and in acne rosacea, with the best effects. It checks the suppuration of furuncle if applied in time, and always relieves the pain. In acne it seems to resolve the hard exudation, and to promote a discharge of a drop or two of healthy matter. This has been specially the case in the very chronic form of acne, which would otherwise remain for weeks itchy and sore, neither disappearing nor suppurating. Pressure is not to supersede appropriate internal treatment, of which, if I have said little in this paper, it is not to be supposed I am neglectful." P. C. Sniyly, anthrax treated by pressure (' Dub). Quart, Journ. ' vol. xxxvii, p. 280). '254 llEPORT ON SURGEllY. MUSCLES ; TENDONS. TV. Webster, resection of one inch of an imperfectly united tendo AcJiilUs, and successful treatment hy sutures (' Ainer. Med. Times,' 18(54. ii, 117).—The tendon ruptured while the patient was running a foot race. Three months later there was au intervening gap between tlic divided ends, of about an inch in length, where but little plastic matter seemed to have been poured out to fill up the space. The unitin" band was so elongated and weak as to render the limb powerless in progression. " I resolved to expose the parts by a free incision, remove the slight connecting medium, pare the retracted extremities, and en- deavour to unite them by the introduction of sutures of silk. The operation of bringing the severed ends in contact after the removal ol' the intervening substance was attended with considerable diificulty. This, however, was accomplished by placing the limb in a thoroughly relaxed position, and inserting two strong ligatures through the ends ol the tendon about three lines from the extremities. The ])arts were thus approximated, and the relaxed position of the limb was maintained by an apparatus consisting of a ring of leather placed around the thigh, above the knee, from which a cord was attached to a loop in the back of a slipper. The gastrocnemii muscles were also surrounded by a firm bandage. This apparatus was used for six weeks, when the patient was allowed to walk about, wearing a high-heeled shoe, for three weeks longer. After having tied the ligatures one end of each was cut off, and the others withdrawn, as practised in the ligation of vessels. The incision was then united its entire length (which was about three inches) in the most exact manner possible. The ligatures were removed on the twenty-fifth day, and during the greater part of that time the wound discharged purulent matter. The fourteenth week after the operation the patient walked with scarcely any lameness, and the tendo Achillis appeared to be perfectly united." W. F. Teevan on tumours in voluntary muscles, luitli an analysis of sixty-two cases, and remarhs on the treatment ('Brit, and Tor. Med.-Chir. Eeview,' vol. xxxii, p. 504). — Out of the 6a cases, in which the growth originated in the body of the muscle, the relative numbers were—cancerous, 21 ; fibrous, alone and in combination, 16; cystic, 8; hydatid, 5 ; erectile, 5; osseous and osteoid, .3 ; doubtful nature, 3 ; myeloid, i. The muscles of the lower extremitiy are affected almost as often as those of the upper limb ; but with this difference, that in the latter the tumours are almost entirely confined to the pec- toralis major, deltoid, and biceps, whereas in the former they are very equally distributed. The muscles of the trunk, head, and neck Avere rarely the seat of tumours, with the exception of the rectus abdominis, which would appear very subject to them. There is a class of swellings in muscles, the result of constitutional syphilis, which may simulate other growths, and so lead to probable error in diagnosis. Cases of this kind have been described by Mr. Tntum, M. Nekton, M. Bouisson, and others. " The greatest ex- perience, and the most consummate diagnostic tact, will sometimes fail255 TUMOURS IN MUSCLES. to discriminate softer forms of encephaloid tumours _ from syphilitic swellings, when the skin is intact; and when we consider that opera- tions have often been needlessly performed for growths supposed to be cancerous, but which turned out to be syphilitic, we cannot be too careful lest we also commit like errors." Again, a cold abscess with thick walls will often puzzle an able surgeon. The author, therefore, considers that the exploring needle and iodide of potash will be found useful auxiliaries in cases of difficult diagnosis. Mr. Teevan discusses at length the treatment of muscular cancer; his conclusion is, that, " whenever practicable, a cancerous tumour in a muscle should not only be excised, but the muscle in which it originated ought to be cut out from its origin to its insertion. But if the cancer be of large size, or if the skin be affected, or if the wound resulting from the excision of the muscle would be of great extent, then the limb ought to be amputated, and the remainder of the muscle in the stump excised." Gr. L. Simmons, divided ten do Achillis united by silver wire (' Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. xlvii, p. 566). 0. Hueter on diagnosis of injuries of the biceps brachii ('Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' v, 321). T. Bryant, inflammatory thickening of the sterno-mastoid (' Med. Times j and Gaz.,' 1863, ii, 614). Prof. Pitha, ossification of muscles ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1863, p. 476). Dr. Bohn on hsematoma of the sterno- mastoid in infants ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 267). C. De Morgan on some cases of vascular tumour seated in muscle (' Brit, and Por. Med.- Chir. Kev.,' vol. xxxiii, p. 187). J. Bar, muscular paralysis from defec- tive nutrition (' Prag. Med. Wochenschr,,' 1864, p. 157, &c.). NERVES. Mr. Paget after relating some cases ofloeal paralysis, which appeared i to have been caused by injury of the nerve-trunks (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1864, i, 331), refers to the treatment. "It must be somewhat different in the cases of simple paralysis and in those that are compli- cated with inflammatory hardening of textures, neuralgia, and other various symptoms. " Por the former the main design must be to maintain the nutrition of the limb, notwithstanding, its inaction. And for this purpose there must be provided, in addition to whatever may be required for the maintenance of vigorous general health,— " I. Constant warmth of the limb ; the whole body must be warmly clothed; the paralysed limb and its fellow especially so. No good or quick repair will take place in a cold limb. " 2. Eegular friction and shampooing, especially circular sham- pooing. " 3. Localized galvanism,- that every several paralysed muscle may be made to contract. " 4. Constant voluntary efforts; constant endeavours to attain every lost movement; and when any such endeavour is effectual, frequent exercise of the recovered power. " 5. _ Swedish gymnastics, i. e. set exercises for each muscle in which I power is not wholly lost.256 IIKPORT ON SUllGEUY. " 6. Guards against distortion from unbalanced actions of inuscles, especially contracted lingers or elbows. " "With these thiugs patiently, that is, year after year continued, much good may bo acliicved. In the case already mentioned as exactly like that of the young man in the hospital, great good has been gained by a year's treatment; she can now move the elbow in liexion and exten- sion, and draw the upper arm inwards, and slightly bend and extend the fingers. There are very distinct sensations in the whole arm and hand, and freedom from all pain; the natural temperature has been restored, and she has ordinary sensations of heat and cold. Galvanism seems to have done special good; the arm was observed to become weaker when it was omitted for a week. " But for the more complicated state, though the treatment must be essentially the same, it must be gentle, with less of galvanism, and less force of movement, and less of voluntary exercise, for these can rarely be borne as they can be in the cases of simple paralysis." /. M. Warren on neuralgic affections following injuries of nerves ('Amer. Jouru. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. xlvii, p. .316).—"It is im- portant to inquire into the propriety of dividing the nerve as a remedy for traumatic neuralgia. In answer to this question, we may state that if the nerve is simply divided, sensation will probably return before the tissues implicated in the original injury have had time to recover their normal condition, and that, therefore, the operation will afford only very transient relief, and may have to be repeated several times. If, on the other hand, a portion of the nerve is excised, the restoration of the nervous function will be very much longer in taking place, but tliere will also be great danger that the repair will be incomplete or even that it may fail altogether, and thus entail permanent loss both of sensation and of motion. The deliberate removal of a long section of the nerve with a view to the permanent abolition of its functions can be but very rarely indicated, and then only as a dernier ressort, as the possible alternative of amputation. The rational treatment of these neuralgic affections seems to me to be based on the fact that their natural tendenyis to recovery, if only we can keep the patient comfortable and thus induce him to wait for this tardy relief. This can only be effected by division of the nerve, or by the use, either local or general, of nar- cotics. The protracted use of opium internally in sufficient quantity to relieve the pain, will almost inevitably exei-t a most pernicious influence on the healtli, while mere local applications to the skin seem to have very little effect. The great benefit which has been derived from the use of hypodermic injections of morphia for ordinary neuralgia, naturally suggested the propriety of trying them in this affection, and the success whicli has attended the experiment has been most gratifying." Dr. Warren appends three cases of severe traumatic neuralgia, which have lately occurred in his practice, and which throw light upon certain points in the pathology and treatment of this painful affection. The first case is related as follows :— "Severe neuralr/ic affection following a gunshot injury of the median nerve.—In tiic second battle of Bull Eun, Lieut. A—, of a N. H.257 TRAUMATIC NEURALGIA. regiment, was struck by a ball on the outside of the middle of tlie arm. The ball passed obliquely through, traversing the biceps muscle, and coming out on the inside. For two or three days he was exposed to the weather, lying under the piazza of a house, having but little food, and with his hand constantly wet Avith the rain which was falling.^ The hand was benumbed, but he suffered somewhat with a sensation of heat in it, which was partially relieved by keeping it exposed to the wet. There was no pain in the wound itself. Shortly after he was removed to Washington, wbere he first experienced very severe pain in the whole hand, but more particularly in the part of it supplied by the median nerve. I saw him about a fortnight after the receipt of the injury. He was then in constant and severe pain in the hand, so much so as to require to be kept more or less under the influence of morphia, which he was taking to the amount of a grain a day. On examining the point at which the wound was received, a puckered eschar was seen with an induration extending deeply into the belly of the biceps muscle to which the skin was adherent. The situation occupied by the vessels and nerves on the inside of the biceps was also enveloped in a mass of indurated tissue. The first idea suggested by this state of things was to cut down upon the nerve, to divide it. It seemed, how- ever, possible, by the gradual change going on in the tissues, that a healthy action might ultimately be set tip, and, at the same time, the indurated tissue surrounding and compressing the nerve might be ab- sorbed, finally relieving the nerve from pressure. The question was whether the sufferings of the patient could be sufficiently mitigated by artificial means to allow of the adoption of a temporising course. He was advised to place the limb perfectly at rest, wear it inside his clothes, next the body, and to have a sleeve made of sheet india-rubber to envelope the lower part of the arm, which covering was to be re- moved from time to time, the arm exposed to the air and washed with soap-and-water; he was directed to discontinue the use of the rubber sleeve if much irritation was set up in the skin, and to envelope the arm in flannel instead, which he had at all times found necessary owing to the great reduction of temperature. He went home to New Hampshire, and followed this plan for three or four weeks. At the end of that period he came to me again, with the desire of having the nerve divided, as his sufferings had become so intolerable, in spite of the use of opiates, as entirely to deprive him of rest. Before resorting to an operation on the nerve, I determined to try the effect of sub- ■ cutaneous injections of morphia. Half a grain of sulphate of morphia, in solution, was injected deep under the skin of the forearm twice a day. He was at once placed in a state of comparative ease, and the evening injection gave him a good night's rest, such as he had not enjoyed for many weeks. This plan was followed up for a month Avitli equally good effects; his digestion was not in the least affected by the use of the morphia, and he gained considerably in flesh. If, however, the dose was omitted, the pain became as bad as ever. It was there- fore decided to perform an operation. An incision of three inches in length was made over the inner edge of the biceps, and the integument i| dissected on both sides separating the cicatrices, caused by the entrance 17 I ihepout on suegery. 358 and exit of the ball from the subjacent tissues. The indurated mass which surrounded the vessels and nerves was now cut into, and the median nerve being discovered where it entered, was gradually laid bare and dissected out, so that it lay perfectly loose in the wound for an inch and a half or two inches of its length. It was thought best not to divide the nerve, but to await the result of the healing of the wound. The edges of the wound were loosely approximated, and water dressings applied. Tor some days the pain was entirely relieved, although from the effect of the habitual use of morphia, a small dose- was required to promote sleep. As the wound began to heal, however, the pain returned, but was much less severe than before. Desiring now to return home, one of his family was instructed in the use of the subcutaneous injection of morphia. About two months afterwards he called on me, and again (March 20, 1863), four months after the operation. He was then in a state of perfect health, and bad gained much flesh, but complained still of neuralgic pain in the hand, requiring the employment of the narcotic injection, whether from habit or not seemed to be a question. The arm, hand, and fingers had begun to acquire some motion. In regard to the local effect of the injections it may be said, that although they had been used twice a day for five months, he had never suffered from any irritation at the point of puncture, except in one instance, in the case of a freshly prepared solution of sulphate of morphia, the use of which was followed by the production of a large red blotch whenever it was injected. On sub- stituting a solution of acetate of morphia no further trouble of this nature was experienced.* The patient had, therefore, had nearly three hundred injections of morphia, more or less, and, with the above ex- ception, no traces remained of its protracted use. Oct. 26, 1863.—I have just seen this patient, and find that he has recovered his health, and enjoys complete immunity from pain. The hypodermic injections were continued until the month of July, or about nine months from the receipt of the injury. He then by a great eflbrt suddenly dis- continued them, and has not used them since. The neuralgic aflection, except diu'ing extreme changes of the weather, has left him. The forearm has recovered its natural sensibility; he has the power of complete flexion of the elbow, and of partial rotation of tlie forearm, while the fingers, which were formerly held in a state of extension, can now be approximated to the thumb, so as to make the hand useful for most of the ordinary purposes of life. This motion is continually im- proving." D. D. Gilbert on neuralgic affections after injuries of the nerves ('Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., vol. Ixx, p. 340). A. von Graefe, case of neurotomy (' Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 199). Prof. Schuh, cases of operation for facial neuralgia ('AVien. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, pp. 385, 401; ' Spit. Zeit.,' 1864, p. 73). Prof. Eemak on facial spasm ('Berlin Klin. Wochenschr., 1864, pp. 209, 231, 229). * Tliis accident is probnby to be explained by the common practice of adding free Bulphuric acid to promote the solubility of certain specimens of suljiliatc of morphia. The acetate is very soluble iu water.SUTURE OP NEUVES. S59 il£ Laucjier on suture of nerves (' Q-az. Hebd.,' 1864, pp. 454, 520).— Owing to an injury, both the radial and ulnar arteries, the palmaria longus, and the median nerve, had been completely, the flexor sublimis partially, divided; the arteries were at once ligatured. On the 13th June, when M. Laugier first saw the patient, there was no sensibility in any of the parts supplied by the median nerve; i. e. over the whole palmar surface of the thumb, index, and middle fingers, and over the outer part of the ring finger. It was only partially lost -where the radial is distributed; thus, perfect over the dorsal surface of the thumb and first interosseal space, it was entirely wanting in the index and lower half of the dorsum of the middle fingers. The movements of opposition of the thumb were impossible. A silk thread was passed through the middle of the upper part of the nerve, entering about twelve millimetres above the wound ; it was then passed in like manner through the lower end, and knotted; thus the edges of the wound were placed in apposition. No accident, attributable to this proceeding, appeared, but the same evening the sensibility appeared to be return- ing. Next day it was quite decided, and the thumb could be readily opposed to the fingers. The thread came away on the twelfth day; this was followed by evident inflammation of the nerve, lancinating pains along the thumb, index, and middle fingers, and diminished sensibility. Twenty days later the tactile sensibility was evidently becoming much more perfect; the patient could not only oppose, but circumduct the thumb. M. Laugier thinks that this case sufficiently shows the advisability of suturing the larger nerves. M. Nelaton, after removing a neuroma of the median in the middle of the arm, and excising a piece of the nerve two centimetres long, sutured the two ends by a wire thread; in forty-three hours the sensi- bility and power of voluntary motion began to return. AETEEIES. A. G. Seid on the treatment of cases in ioMeh a large artery is wotmded ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' ix, ioo6).—In a report of surgical cases under the care of Mr. Spence, the author remarks, that " even in recent surgical works a rule is laid down, that in primary hsemon'hage no attempt should be made to tie the wounded artery unless it is bleeding. This 1 law is certainly very applicable to small blood-vessels to which there is ' no direct guide, and which may be generally trusted to nature and ; compresses. But where the artery is of large size, such as the radial I and upwards, there is no security from haemorrhage without ligature of i the vessel; and if from the position and direction of the wound it is suspected that the arterial trunk has been opened into, the incision ; should be enlarged in the direction of the course of the artery, and a ligature applied, if necessary. Two of the above cases illustrate this modification of the rule—the one shows the necessity of a careful examination of the wound, and the early application of the ligature ; the other indicates the risks arising from delay. In C. C— the wound ■ looked at first sight trifling; it was situated rather low down in the thigh to lead to the suspicion that the femoral was opened into and ; but for the blanched appearance of the child, and the mother's state*IIEPOIIT ON SUllGKliY. 200 nicnt thai; tliero had been a great loss of blood, the real danger might have escaped observation. In order to examine the iujnry thorouglily, the patient was placed under chloroform. On inserting the finger into the wound, it was found to pass obliquely upwards; and on tracing the lacerated tendon of the adductor, the sartoriiis Avas felt divided, and the end of the femoral artery pulsating in Hunter's canal. In addition to this, a large accompanying A'ein was torn across, and the shaft of the femur laid bare at the seat of injury. Altliough, under these circum- stances, there was great liability to gangrene of the limb, it was not deemed proper to adopt severe measures in the first instance, inasmuch as the patient was young, the bruising of textures limited, and there was no great eflusion of blood to compress or prevent the collateral circulation. The wound was, therefore, extended in the direction of the course of the main vessel, and one end secui-ed in Hunter's canal; the other, which had retracted into the popliteal space, was followed and tied. The recovery of the patient was uninterrupted and complete; hut if the rule stated above had been neglected, there is every proba- bility that, on the restoration of the natural force of the circulation, the clot Avould have been broken down, the hajmorrhage been repeated, and the already exhausted child have succumbed under the further loss of blood. In the second case, M. P—, a wound of the brachial artery was treated in the country for two weeks with compresses and bandage; but during that time there had been repeated attacks of hsemorrhage, which greatly exhausted the patient, and the wound had assumed such an unhealthy appearance, that it was impossible to continue the treat- ment. Erom the position of the wound over the bend of the arm, and from the occurrence of repeated bleedings per saUum, there could be little doubt that the brachial was opened into. In order to tie the bleeding vessel, the incision was extended, and the infiltrated textures separated by the finger. The round tendon of the biceps was then felt completely divided, and the semilunar fascia entire and stretched ; but as the wound passed in the direction of the artery, the fascia was divided, and the lymph over the vessel broken down. After this, when the tourniquet was relaxed, blood was seen to issue from a puncture in the side of the brachial, just above the bifurcation; a double ligature was therefore applied above and below the opening. The arm was kept in a flexed position, in order to promote the union of the biceps. After this there was no recurrence of the haemorrhage. In this patient the operation was much more difficult than in the former, on account of the infiltrated state of the tissues, and the great difficulty experienced both in separating them and in recognising the various textures. Two instances of suspected wound of the palmar arch were admitted some days after receipt of the injuries. As the patients were strong men, and little affected by the haemorrhage, there was no great risk from bleeding, so long as they were under direct observation. Compresses were therefore placed directly over the wound and over the radial and ulnar, and secured by a firmly applied bandage. This, combined witli flexion and elevation of the limb, proved suflicient to prevent further hamorrliage." , H. Lee, two cases of ulceration of arteries ('Mod. Tim. and Gaz.,ANEURISM OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. 2G1 1864, i, 42i;). B. Holt, five cases of operation ia wliicli the vessels ■were secured by the wire ligature, and in Avhich both ends Avere cut short and left in the wound (' Lane.,' 1864, ii, 91). Dr. Weinlcchner, ligature of the carotid in a child, nst. four years and a half (' Wien. Med. Halle,' 1864, p. 45). 0. A. Pope, ligature of the common carotid C'Anier. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. xlvii, p. 556). W. "W". Keen, wound of internal maxillary, ligature of common carotid, &c.—deatli (ibid., vol. xlviii., p. 27). M. Mahou, ligature of common and external carotids for gunshot wounds of the face—recovery (ibid., p. 276). Dr. Markoe, wound of the carotid, injection of the persulphate of iron ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1864, i, 65). Dr. Armsby, ligature of the sub- clavian ('Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. xlvii, p. ^64). Dr. Parker, ligature of the right subclavian inside the scalenus, together with the common carotid and vertebral arteries ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1864, i, 114). 0. M. Humphrey on the ligature of the axillary or subcla\nan for secondary hremorrhage (ibid., p. 161). Prof. Brainard, ligature of the common iliac ('Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. 47, p. 565). E. Cock, ligature of the common iliac for aneurism (in " select cases of aneurism," ' Guy's Hosp. Eep.,' x, 207). J. B. Cutter, on ligature of the external iliac, with a statistical table of thirty-five cases iu which this operation has been performed since 1846 ('Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. xlviii, p. 36). Prof. Linhart, three cases of ligature of the femoral ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1864, p. 185, &c.). P. S. Wales, ligature of the femoral ('Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. xlvii, p. 551). ANEUEISM. T. T. Sabine, tlie treatment of aneurism involving the suhclavian in such apart of its course that a proinvial lirjature is only applicahle ivithin the scaleni ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1864, ii, 74, 89, loi, 116).—The author discusses in succession medical treatment, external applications, com- pression, galvano-puncture, injection, manipulation, amputation, distal ligature, and the proximal ligature. The successful employment of the last method is the great desideratum. " No other, excepting perhaps indirect compression, aifords so safe, speedy, and eftectual a cure as this ; and hence in those cases which have been hitherto unsuccessful, it should be our aim to seek out and remedy, if possible, the causes of failure. This is the more important in subclavian aneurism where in- direct compression is impossible, and the other methods inapplicable. These methods I have already briefly discussed, and the conclusion arrived at was, that none of them, excepting perhaps amputation, aftbrd much, if any, chance of success. Amputation has never been resorted to, and hence all reasoning upon the subject can only be hypothetical; besides, amputation necessitates the loss of a most important member, in most cases the rir/lit arm, and ought not to be thought of if proximal ligature can be rendered a tolerably successful operation. Hitherto it has not been so, and I shall now discuss tlie dillerent operations that have been performed, their causes of failure, together with two new ' operations which have not yet been tried, but eitlier of which appears at present to afford good grounds for believing that they will prove262 EEPOET ON SUEGERY. successful. One of these has been already spoken of by different surgeons; the other I have not heard mentioned, and therefore I do not know whether it is original with myself or not. "Four different operations have been performed, viz., ist. Ligature of the iunominata; 2nd. Ligature of subclavian in the first part of its course ; 3rd. Ligature of both subclavian and carotid, just beyond their origins. 4th. Ligature of subclavian, carotid and vertebral, just beyond their origins. Two new operations are proposed—viz., ist. Ligature of Bubclavian, carotid, vertebral, mammary, and two or more brandies of the thyroid axis, in fact every artery that can be reached that exerts any influence on the aneurism; 2nd. Ligature of the innominate, carotid, vertebral, mammary, and the three branches of the thyroid axis." LiffaUire of the innominate.—This artery has been tied thirteen times; all the cases ended fatally. "In whatever situation a ligature be placed, secondary haemorrhage will almost inevitably occur and pro- bably from the distal side, because a ligature could not, without very great difficulty, be applied much below the bifurcation, and hence there would be sufficient space for a proximal, but not for a distal clot. The question now arises—Supposing ligature of the innominate were a per- fectly successful operation, would it arrest the progress of aneurism. I think not. There would still be the branches arising from the sub- clavian to keep up a circulation through the tumour, sufficient in all probability to prevent its consolidation. Of these the vertebral, owing to its size and very free anastomosis through the circle of AVillis, would be the most effectual. The inferior thyroid, on account of its connection with the superior thyroid, together with the other branches of the thyroid axis, as well as the mammary and superior intercostal, would all act as preventing causes. Though the size of the tumour might remain stationary, or even diminish for a short time, it would increase as soon as the collateral circulation became pretty well established, which never takes very long." Ligature of the sulclavian within the scaleni.—The author has col- lected nine cases of this operation, besides four in which other arteries were also ligatured; of the former two died from accidental causes, before the ligature had had time to separate. All the rest (seven) died from hemorrhage. There appears to be little chance of both distal and proximal clots forming: " by as much nearer as the ligature is applied to the origin of the first branch of the subclavian, by so inucli does it increase the chance of formation of a proximal clot and diminish that of a distal, and vice versa. In such cases as these the difference of a single line, or even one-half line, may determine whether a clot is or is not to be formed. Ligature of the subclavian alone, in the first part, should be banished as a means of treatment." Even if the opera- tion succeeded, it seems probable for similar reasons to those already mentioned with reference to the innominate, that the aneurism would not be cured. Ligature of the stibclavian and carotid.—" Seeing the fatal results attending ligature of the subclavian alone, surgeons endeavoured to avert them by the above operation. In adopting it they had two objects in view : ist, to insure a proximal clot; and, to afford more space for »ANEURISM OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. 263 distal one. The argument was this :—If a ligature be applied to the subclavian immediately at its origin, more room, it is true, will be afforded for the formation of a distal clot, but then there will be almost absolute certainty of an absence of a proximal one: if now a ligature at the same time be applied to the carotid, it will render a proximal clot, iu the innominate, pretty certain, and the full advantage will be reaped of the greater amount of space aftorded between the origin of the sub- clavian and its first branch. The carotid above the ligature will almost certainly be obliterated." Three cases so treated have been recorded ; they were all vinsuccessfid. From them, from the cases of ligature of the innominata, from those of ligature of the first portion of the sub- clavian or of the carotid, it may be concluded, that both the proximal and the distal carotid clots are pretty certain to form, but that the distal portion of the subclavian will remain open. Ligature of the suhclaviaii, carotid, and verteiral.—The chief obstacle to success being apparently the circulation through the vertebral, Dr. Parker tied it also; death followed on the forty-second day from haemorrhage. The innominate, carotid, and vertebral were closed; the subclavian remained open. Ligature of tlie carotid, siibclavian, and its branches.*—The indica- tions in the treatment of subclavian aneurism by proximal ligature are four. " ist. A practicable and tolerably safe operation ; and. The for- mation of proximal clots; 3rd. The formation of distal clots; 4th. The cure of the aneurism. The first, second, and part of the third are answered by the two operations last discussed. Part of the third, the distal subclavian clot, and consequently the fourth, are not. The in- dication to be met is, then, the formation of the distal subclavian clot." The author thinks this operation both practicable and safe. " As to whether the second and third indications, the formation of proximal and distal clots will be answered by this operation, can best be seen by sup- posing a case in which the operation has been performed. Let such a case be taken, then, in which the arrangement of the arteries is normal, and ligatures be applied in the several positions indicated. Prom the experience derived from former operations, it may very safely be con- cluded that clots will form on the proximal sides of the subclavian and carotid ligatures, that is to say, in the innominata, and on the distal sides of the carotid and vertebral ligatures. In Parker's case the proximal stump of the vertebral had ulcerated away, and therefore it is impossible to say whether a clot had formed or not. It probably had, and that for reasons given on a previous page. There is no reason whatever why clots should not also form on both sides of the mammary, I inferior thyroid, supra-scapular, and trans, colli ligatures. The arteries are comparatively small, no branches are given off near the point ligated, and hence there is nothing to prevent such a result. I have i thought it better to substitute ligation of the three branches of the I thyroid axis for that of the axis itself. If the ligature be applied to 1 the axis itself, there will not only be very little room fo» a proximal clot to form, on account of the shortness of the vessel, but the forma- tion of a distal clot might be prevented by the current which would * Except the sup. intercostal,264 UKPOUT ON SUIIGEIIY. pass from the inferior thyroid into the supra-scapular and trans, colli, as that would be one of the principal means for the establisliment of the collateral circulation. " Thus far everything promises success, and now the formation of the distal subclavian clot alone remains to be considered. The amount of space aflbrded by these additional ligatures, is much greater than has ever been obtained by any previous operation. It includes all that exists between the ligature and the sup. intercostal, which, as has been shown, arises within the scalenus in only 24 out of 158 cases—i in 6^. This amounts to —14 inch. Can a clot form in this space? By referring to the statistics of tlie length of the innominate, it will be seen that in. more than half the cases it was less than one and a half inch, and yet after its ligature a proximal clot formed in three out of four cases. If, then, a clot will form in an artery so large and so un- favorably situated for such a result, we ought surely to expect it in an ai-tery so much smaller as the subclavian. Suppose now the branches of the subclavian are not normal, what will be the eflect ? They will arise within, beneath, or beyond the scalenus. If they arise within, they can easily be secured. If they arise beneath or beyond, they will have no effect in preventing the formation of a proximal subclavian clot." Ligature of innominate, carotid, vertel)ral,Sfc.—" This operation is the same as the last, excepting that a ligature is applied to the innominate instead of the subclavian. The objections to this are two. ist. The difficulty of applying such a ligature. 2nd. The chance of a proximal clot not forming. The difficulty cannot be very great, as the artery has been tied thirteen times, and in four other cases the artery has been exposed, but the operation abandoned fo? other causes. It could easUy have been tied in Parker's case. The chance of a proximal clot not forming is a more cogent reason. I do not, however, think that need be feared, and for reasons already given under previous heads. The advantages are:— X. A clot is almost certain to form in the subclavian, between its origin and the first pervious branch (sup. intercostal), extending thence into the innominate and carotid. 2. If for any reason the vertebral could not be ligated, or it should hereafter prove that its ligation is unsuccessful, there would still be room for a distal clot. 3. If the subclavian were found diseased more internally than was supposed, a more healthy artery, or rather a different artery, would be ligated. 4. The innominate is not in such close relation with important structures as is the subclavian, where the ligature is applied, e.y. the pneumogastric, sympathetic, pleura, &c. Tlie above operation is one of my own proposal; at least, I have not heard it mentioned by any one." D. L. Boqers, case of successful ligature of the intwminata (' Ainer. Med. Tim.,'- 1864, ii, pO-—^'ho subject was a mulatto man of 33 years of age ; the tumour was large, with a strong pulsation. On tlie 15th May, 1864, Dr. A. AV. Smith, of New Orleans, applied a ligature to the arteria iniiominata, and to the right carotid about one inch above265 TIUiATJIENT OF ANEUJIISM. its ori"-iu. " The wound was dressed in the usual manner, and the man removed to bed. May aStb.—The ligature came from the carotid. May 29tli.—Ha;morrbage from the wound, but arrested by slight pres- sure. 30th and 31st.—The bajmorrhage returned. June ist.—The hemorrhage returning, Dr. Smith removed the lint, and filled the wound with smaFl shot. June 2nd.—Ligature separated from the arteria innomiuata. June 17th'.—A part of the shot removed from the wound, followed in a few hours by liaMuorrhage. The shot returned. July 5th and 8th.—Uffimorrhage returned. Believmg the hasmorrhage must be supplied by the vertebral artery, through the subclavian, it was de- termined to ligate the artery, and accordingly Dr. Smith secured the vertebral artery on the 9th of July. July 19th.—No return of hajmor- rhage. The ligature separated from the vertebral artery this day. A doubtful pulsation may be felt in the right radial artery. The aneu- rismal tumour has disappeared. July 30th.—General health much improved since the last report. The Avouud is nearly closed. He walks about the ward, and is desirous of returning home." V. Mott adds to this report, that on the 9th August, " Dr. Rogers called on me (having arrived the day before from New Orleans), and stated that the aneurismal tumour had entirely disappeared, that the wound had healed, and that the-man was well and walking about." G. H. Moore on a new metliocl of procurinc/ the consolidation of fibrine in certain aneurisms (' Erit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, i, 455).—" In February, 1863, Mr. Moore had been led to review the conditions of such aneu- risms as could not be surgically treated through the artery, and had devised a method of producing consolidation of them in accordance with •the mode of their natural cure. " The principles involved in this method were the following:— I. Large aneurisms can only be benefited by the deposition of fibrine within them ; 2. The natural means of obtaining fibrine from the blood are inadequate, because it can only settle in layers on the wall; 3. In the central part of an aneurism there, is a large qnantity of blood with fibrine ready to collect on any apt material; 4. Pibrine may be elicited from arterial blood, by exposing a foreign body in it. Two cases were quoted in which this had occurred; one, in which gangrene of the leg had resulted from plugging of the arteries, by fibrine detached from a needle in the left ventricle; the other, that of a sailor, who died three days after being shot, and in the interior of whose ascending aorta was a bullet imbedded in fibrine. " The foreign body which, according to our present knowledge, would produce least irritation was wire. If a large quantity were coiled in an aneurism, it would attract fibrine, as the twigs do in whipping freshly drawn blood, support the mass which it entangled, and lead to the cavity of the aneurism being eventually filled. The wire might be passed in through a small canula, with care not to leave the last end in the minute wound, and not to direct a coil into the orifice of the artery. " Only a sacculated aneurism could be so treated, not one which had 1 two orifices, since fragments of fibrine would be broken olT by the force of the current. Brasdor's operation might be previously required inEEPOET ON SURGERY. 266 some parts. This danger might be incurred in a sacculated aneurism also, if wire enough were not introduced, because of the large intervals which Avould bo loft between the few coils of wire. The wire would remain in the solidified aneurism, and be harmless." A case is then related of saccular aneurism of tlie ascending aorta projecting tlirough the anterior wall of the left side of the chest, in which this treatment was employed. " The operation consisted in the in- troduction of a quantity of line iron wire into the aneurism, with the object of inducing coagulation. A small pointed canula was inserted into the tumoui-, aud the wire was passed in through this without difficulty. The operation occupied one hour, and the quantity of wire introduced was twenty-six yards. It gave rise to no pain or inconvenience except a slight and transient feeling of faintness. The quantity of blood lost did not exceed half a fluid ounce. The immediate effects of the opera- tion were a reduction of the pulse from ii6 to 92, an almost complete cessation of the pulsation in the tumour, and a diminution in its size. Immediately before the operation, the circumference of its base was sixteen and three quarter inches; at the close of the operation it was sixteen inches. These changes began to be noticed soon after the com- mencement of the operation, and became more marked as it was pro- ceeded with. At iij p.m. the patient was asleep, and his pulse was only 78. He slept comfortably during the night, and had no bad symptom nntil the following morning." He was then attacked by a severe rigor, foUoAved by great pain, violent action of the heart, intense thirst, &c. Death occurred in four days and twenty and a half hours after the opei'ation. "An autopsy was performed a few hours after death. The walls of the external tumour were formed by the integuments and fibres of the pectoral muscle, infiltrated with serum. They were nowhere less than a quarter of an inch in thickness. The skin covering a great part of the tumour presented a deep livid hue. The interior of the tumour was filled, for the most part, with a fibrinous coagulum, enveloping and imbedded in the coils of wire, and firmly adherent to the surrounding walls. The rest of the cavity contained fluid black blood. The interior of the outer tumour was nowhere lined with a prolongation of the arterial coats; but it communicated with the proper aneurismal sac within the chest by two large openings iu the first and second left intercostal spaces, the intervening rib being bare and eroded, and at one place broken through. The aneurismal tumour within the chest was about the size of a man's fist. It lay im- mediately behind the sternum; it encroached slightly upon the upper lobe of the left lung, and inferiorly it rested upon the right am-icle. It was partially filled with a fibrinous coagulum, which was continuous with that iu the outer tumour, and was adherent at one part over a space measuring about one third of an inch in diameter. It communi- cated by a circular opening, scarcely so large as a sixpence, with the ascending aorta. Through this opening a clot projected from the aneurism into the vessel, and extended downwards into the heart, and upwards into the arch. The greater part of this clot was evidently of post-mortem date ; but part of it, close to the opening, was pale, firm, and laminated." The cff'ccts of old disease of the lungs and of recent267 FACIAL PHLEBITIS. pericarditis were also found. "Both kidneys..contained a number of circumscribed abscesses, varying in size up to that of a small pea." "Three facts appeared to Mr. Moore to justify a repetition of the operation, or of some modification of it:—i. The separation of fibrme upon tlie foreign body, and its rapid deposition. 2. The exemption of the inner aneurism from inflammation, probably to be accounted for by its possessing a lining membrane, which the outer cavity had not. 3. The firm adhesion of the clot to the wall. Not having yet thought of a more suitable foreign body than wire, he had but two modifications of the operation to suggest: "i. The introduction of a smaller quantity. The objections to this had already been pointed out. 2. The use of slender needles as temporary means of procuring the consolidation of the fibrine. The safety of this must depend on the number of needles ■which might be inserted, the gentleness with which they should he withdrawn, and the period at which fibrine so i^rocured should acquire a sufficiently firm attachment to the wall of the aneurism to allow of the artificial support of the needles being dispensed with." Mr. Sheppard, aneurism of carotid cured by compression (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1863, ii, 643). Prof. Oppolzer, case of aneurism of the subclavian ('Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,' 1863, pp. 187, 194). H. Davies, aneurism of iunominata and subclavian, in which distal occlusion occurred ('Loud. I-Iosp. Eep.-,' i, i). C. H. Fagge, aneurism seated on an ab- normal main artery of tlie lower limb ('Guy's Hosp. Eep.,' x, i^i). M. Gayet, case in which a knife passed through the profunda femoris and opened the corresponding vein, treated by digital compression, ligature of the external iliac, and ending in death (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, p. 166). C. J. Bracey, cases cured by compression ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, ii, 221). M. Broca on the diagnosis oi emlolism (' Gaz. d. H6p.,' 1864, p. 3). TEIITS. M. JBlachez on facial phlebitis ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 716).—This variety of phlebitis has some special characters, owing to the anatomical arrangement of the veins, and their free anastomoses with the intra- cranial sinuses. At 11 a.m. on the i6th July, 1863, a soldier, aged 43 years, was admitted under Dr. Gerier at the Gros-Caillou Hospital. He had been ill for some days with fever, redness, and slight swelling of the forehead; these symptoms were attributed to erysipelas, and emetics were administered, but without success. On his admission he was found to be delirious; the skin on both sides of the nose, over the eyelids and the forehead, was red; the swelling extended some distance further under the hair; the palpebra> were cedematous and could be separated only so far as to show the presence of chemosis. Tlie red- ness was not uniform, but in patches of a slightly livid hue along the fronto-temporal veins. The latter as prominent, hard, violet-coloured ' cords. At 4 p.m., the delirium was becoming more violent, and in the evening it became necess.ary to apply the strait-waistcoat. The pulse became small and irregular; coma followed, and death at a a.m, At tlie post-368 IIKPORT O'S SURGKllY. uiortem oxamiuatiou the braiu and its membranes appeared normal; the cavernous and circular sinuses were full of pus ; the right internal jugular was for a short distance filled witli a soft red clot. There were two large ulcerations of tlic mucous membrane in the nasal fopsic. Tiio ophthalmic vein was full of pus. Both lungs were adhei-ont by means of yellowish soft false membranes; in the riglit pleural cavity there was some fluid pus, and there were numerous metastatic abscesses in the lungs. The author considers that the morbid prbcess sprang from the ulcera- tions in the nasal fossa>, the inflammation thcji spread along the frontal and ophthalmic veins to the cavernous sinus. Cases of facial phlebitis have been observed in furuncle, &c., of the face (vide Giintncr in ' Year- Book; 1863, p. 166). M. Dubreuil has published (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 186.3, P- 764) two cases of facial phlebitis with furuncles; one recovered and the other died; in both cases there were orbital abscesses. H. Lee, obliteration of varicose veins (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, i, p. 87, 118). F. 0. Skey on varicose veins ('Lane.,' 1864, i, i). M. Sistach, statistical studies on varix and varicocele (' Gaz. Med. de Paris,' 1863 ; 'Arch. Gen.,' 1864, i, 609). L. EUinger on the injection of Liq. Perri Sesquichlorati into varicose veins ('Arch, fur path. Anat.,'xxx, i). Transfusion.—P. L. Panum, experimental researches (' Arch, fiir path. Auat.,' xxvii, 240, 433; xxix, 241). ILcBmorrliage.—M. Dolbeau, &c., on hasmorrhage from abscesses ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1864, i, 487). J. T. Simpson on acupressure ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1864, i, i, &c.). A. Hamilton, cases of acupressure ('Edinb. Med. Journ',' ix, 630, 662). J. Dix on the wire compress as a substitute for the ligature (ibid., x, 207), W. B. M'lvinlay, case of secondary haemorrhage in which the femoral, external iliac, and after- wards the common iliac, arteries were tied, recovery (ibid., ix, 808). W. Eddowes, case of secondary lisemorrbage (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, i, 93)- Scemorrliagic diathesis.—D. Foot, case (' Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' vol. xxxvi, p. 449; Vascular hmours.—M. Broca on the structure of erectile tumours (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 536). A, Hermann (' Prog. Viertelj.,' 1863, iv, 159; 1864,1,104; 1864, ii, 128). E. B. Carter on the subcutaneous injection of percbloride of iron (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1864, i, 683). TUMOUES. T. Holmes distinguishes from congenital cysts properly so called, an aflection which he calls the conffenitalinnoccnl iumour ('Lane.,' 1864, i, 575, 605). He describes it as '' a solid tumour, developed before birth, and sometimes growing with great rapidity in the early days of life, so as to threaten to prove fatal, either by exhaustion or by its pressure on organs in the neighbourhood." He has met with these tumours in the neck (three times), on the nape and back of the head, in the orbit, and (a doubtful case) in the pharynx. The disease appears to have no cha- racter of malignancy except rapid growth. Cysts are very common in269 CONGENITAL TUMOURS. these tumours, aud in many of them the cysts form the greater part of the whole mass; their presence, however, appears to be an accidental circumstance, caused merely by the mode of groAvth. As to diagnosis, the disease may be confounded with degenerated iiffivus or cancer, " The diagnosis is usually not difficult if the surgeon is aware of the general history of congenital tumours. Many of these tumours are quite separate from the skin, and in these cases their hard lobulated feel, and perfect independence of the circulation, distinguish them from nsevus, especially if they are seen at a very early age, when a nrovus of any large size could hardly be reasonably expected to have passed through all its stages of growth aud arrest. But in some in- stances the skin adheres to the tumour, and shows traces of najvus, and the more care is required in weighing the various symptoms and ap- pearances, especially if there be cysts in any part of the tumour. But the great practical consideration is, that the mass is growing rapidly. This proves both that the tumour is not a transformed nsavus, and that it must be removed, since the weakly condition of a young infant cannot afford to support a rapidly growing tumour. As to the diagnosis from cancer, the congenital occurrence of the tumour, and the otherwise perfect health of the child, will usually suffice." In regard to the treatment, Mr. Holmes writes that " the personal experience which I have detailed above, though limited to six cases, is enough to show how different is the course of the disease in different cases. In the first two the growth was so rapid as to prove fatal at a very early period of life; while in the third the tumour had remained nearly stationary for several years. On the strength of this case alone, I would dissuade any attempt at removal in situations involving danger, unless the fact of active growth be established beyond question, as it was in that case, by careful observation of the progress of the disease while the child was an out-patient. On the other hand, those cases in which the whole side of the neck becomes filled up, and the face trenched upon by a rapidly growing mass, in which cysts are developed, are very probably from the commencement incurable, in consequence of the deep position and extensive connections of the disease, even at the time of birth. Again, in some other cases, where there is nothing to be detected except two or more large cysts, with some uncertain solidification at their base, the disease may be a true instance of the multilocular cystic tumour, and the feeling of solidity at its base may be due, not to the presence of any morbid tissue subject to rapid growth, but only to the traction or the pressure of the superjacent cysts. " It would be unreasonable to recommend similar treatment for such different cases. I think, however, that it may be laid down as a rule that congenital solid tumours, when not situated in dangerous positions, had better be removed while they are at their smallest size, since we may not afterwards have them under our own observation, and it is not safe to trust to that of mothers and nurses. In such situations as the neck, where these tumours are far more common than elsewhere, we ' must act according to circumstances. If it be necessary to interfere at : all with the tumour, and the latter be of only moderate size, the choice of removal or of measures directed to the obliteration of the cysts is IREPOllT ON SUUGEBY. 270 presented to us. Bemoval is at all times difficult, and may prove im- possible. These tiimour.s, as far as I liave seen, always dip beneath tlie deep cervical fascia, and it is utterly impossible to know to what extent they reach, or wliat structures they may overlap or inclose. The carotid sheath or the oesophagus may be so surrounded by the growth as to render the removal of the latter impossible. This was so in Mr. Arnott's case, quoted by Mr. Hawkins, and it would, I dare say, have been found to be so in my first case had I been driven to attempt the removal of the tumour. Of course, the relations of a tumour in the anterior tri- angle are far more formidable than in the posterior, though even the latter are suificieutly embarrassing in many cases. Still I have given an instance of the removal of such a tumour with apparent success ; and even in Mr. Arnott's case, though the operation could not be completed by the total removal of the deep part of the tumour, the patient is said to have ultimately ' done well.' These are encouragements to proceed somewhat boldly in cases where the tumour is growing rapidly, and where, therefore, we have reason to think that life will not be protracted very long; but the limit between justifiable boldness and fool-hardiness must be fixed by each surgeon for himself. Pressure on the jugular vein, interference with deglutition, projection into the mouth, would in most cases contra-indicate the attempt at removal, as would enormous extent of disease. " If so little solid structure can be made out that the surgeon is doubtful whether the disease is not purely cystic, of coiu'se the ob- literation of the cysts will be the first measure indicated. If such means do not succeed in checking the growth of the tumour, it vrill then be time to think about more radical measures. I have seen such striking success from the injection of tincture of iodine into these cysts of the neck, that I should not think of employing any other measure at first. If this fail, and still the solid part of the tumour is not in- creasing, setous may be tried. If an attempt be made to dissect out the cyst or cysts, a very free opening should be made by crucial iu- cision, and large flaps of skin be turned back from the tumour. Every part of the cyst should if possible be removed. I have noticed in two of tlie above cases, that I left small fragments of some of the cysts ; but this was done only as a pis aller; in one case because the child wa? dying, in the other because I could not distinguish the cysts from the skin. I related the third case to the Pathological Society a few Aveeks since, when the president mentioned a case in which, in removing a cyst,'a portion had been left adhering to the subclavian vessels, and where the cyst reappeared after many years of apparent health. This uncertainty on the vital question, whether it will be possible effectually to remove such tumours, is another reason for abstaining from the attempt as long as it is justifiable to do so. But in the diffused and rapidly growing tumours I believe total extirpation is the only remedy, and sucli of them as are beyond the reach of that measure I believe to be incurable. Injections are inert in these formidable affections; setons and caustics appear rather to hasten the fatal event. Perhaps the least hopeless plan, when total removal is impossible, would be to lay open the cysts freely, and repeat this from time to time as freshTUMOUllS TJNDEE, MOLES. 271 cysts might present in the first wound; but although I tried this measure in the second of the cases above detailed, it certainly proved inefficient in checking the disease." Mr. Paget, clinical lecture on tumours tinder moles (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, i, 58).—The occurrence of melanotic cancers under or in moles or pigmentary naevi has been long known. Among the cases of this disease, having their primary seat in or near the skin, more than half have thus grown in close relation with moles. Hence, "if a patient have a tumour growing in or beneath a mole, it must be con- sidered as most likely a melanotic cancer; or, if we have an increasing outgrowth from a mole, epithelial cancer must be suspected. And if in any one, especially an elderly person, a mole begins to grow promi- nent, or to become more vascular or more irritable, it had better be forthwith cut out or destroyed with caustic. I have known cases in which, when moles were quickly increasing, and changing just like those that have afterwards become seats of melanotic cancer, their total destruction has been the end of all mischief Of course, I cannot be sure that these would have become cancerous if they had been left; but I believe that, at least some of them would, and that the rule for the destruction of all growing like them is a good one. If the forma- tion of cancer be not quite averted by it, it maybe deferred, as it seemed to be in a case I have lately seen. A patient had many pig- menta,ry moles in his back. Kve years ago one of them began to grow, and Sir Benjamin Brodie destroyed it with caustic. The scar remained sound until a few months ago, when an epithelial warty cancer began to spring up from it." I Mr. Paget has also seen three examples of another kind of tumour, which he describes in the following manner:—" Growing on the back of the trunk, they lie imbedded in the subcutaneous fat. They are ■roundly oval, moderately well defined to the touch, closely connected Avith the structures round them, very firm, heavy, dully elastic, feeling like fibrous tumours. The skin over them is raised and thinned by their growth; adherent, but not confused with their surface; and, in addition to the dark tint of the mole spread over part of the surface the skin has a dusky, or ruddy and glossy, tint of difiused vascularity '• and enlarged veins ramify over it, or away from it. The skin, or the tumour beneath it, has been in two cases the frequent seat of hot burning pain; in the third there was no pain. The section of the tumour has a loAvly nodular, or tuberous outline, easily separable by dissection from the surrounding skin and subcutaneous tissue. The cut surface appears divided by whitish tissue into lobes and minuter iobules, much like those of secreting conglomerate glands. It is very pale, grayish-white, with tinges of yellow or pale purple, smooth on its section, and glistening. It may have minute cavities filled with fluid lor one or more larger cysts, containing serous fluid or grumous matter! dhe substance is firm, but brittle, easily breaking into small fragments yielding on pressure or scraping only some yellowish clear fluid, and no turbid fluid like cancer juice even after it begins to decay The microscopic appearances are too various and indefinite for anv uspfnl minute description." !272 ItEPORT ON SURGERY. "There is sufllcient iu tlieae structural characters to prove the occur- rence of a form of tumour whicli, so far as I know, lias not liithertu been described; but tliere is not enough of wliat is definite to juHtifv the giving of a new name. More specimens must be examined'befoic this can be safely done. Meantime, it may be held that moles arc even more than has been supposed, apt to be the seats of the growth of tumours, and that among the tumours likely to be found in or bencalli them [are some which are neither epithelial nor nielanoid cancers, and whicli, probably, are not cancers at all. One of the cases, indeed—tlic second—has now remained well, without any recurrence, for more than four years after the removal of the tumour—a period much longer, almost certainly, than tliat which would have elapsed after the removal of a deep-seated epithelial or a melanotic cancer." W. Fergusson on tTie removal of skin in iJie excision of tumours (' Lane.,' 1864, i, 691).—" In the removal of tumours which are promi- nent on the surface, it is a common practice to include an elliptical portion of the skin. Now, excepting in instances of cancer where this texture is involved, and a few rare exceptions, I consider thia to be a great error. Por cysts on the scalp of or above the size of a walnut, this practice may be said to be the rule; yet the loose bag of scalp, if one is left, will very speedily contract to its natural dimensions, while when an ellipse is taken away there is apt to remain a broad, white, bald cicatrix. In removing an enlarged testis, the custom is to take away a portion of skin too; j-et the scrotum is so contractile that soon after, although only a slit be made in the skin, it will appear less voluminous than on the untouched side. The contraction of the skin in this locality is well exemplified in instances of large hydroceles where, after the radical cure, the scrotum soon assumes its normal size. It is seldom, indeed, that I remove any portion of the skin when it is merely stretched and attenuated over the disease." E. Virchow and Prof. Breslau on the statistics of tumours ('Arch, fiir path. Anat.,' vol. xxvii, p. 425 ; vol. xxviii, p. 556). C. 0. Weber on the implication of the vessels, more especially of the capillaries, iu tumours (1. c, vol. xxix, p. 84). N, Friedreich, cases (1. c, vol. xxvii, p. 375). M. Nelaton on the destruction of tumours by electri- city (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, pp. 520, 530). T. Billroth on the origin of fibroids ('Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' iv, 545). A. Hermann on sarcomatous tumours ('Prag. Viertelj.,' 1864, iii, 71). H. W. Berend on congenital tumours, ('Berl. Klin. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 243). C. Kiittuer on cavernous tumours ('St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' vi, 202). M. Gossehii, hematic tumour of the buttock—cyst with a fibrous wall (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1864, p. 58). B. Holt, large serous cyst protruding beneath Poupart's ligaiuent, &c. ('Med. Circ.,' vol. xxiv, p. 41). JIALIGNANT TUMOURS. H. C. Bastion on tJie mode of origin of seconctary cancerous (/ronlhs ('Med. Mirror,' 1864, p. 622). " Tlie following theories have been advocated by diflerent pathologists to account for the production of this species of new formation :—273 SECONDAUY CaNCKROUS GllOWTHS. First. By iuoculation, owing to tlie actual transference of caucer- cells from the primary disease to tlie secondarily affected part, by means either of the circulation in the (a) veins, or in the (b) lymphatics, with their arrest and subsequent growth in these situations. Second. The contamination of the distant part (through the same medium either of blood-vessels or lymphatics by means of certain ichorous juices or cancer-hlastemata, which are supposed either {a) to produce some specific irritating eft'ect upon the natural tissues, or (h) to have the power of developing these by acting themselves as germs or rudiments for the production of the new growth. Third. The formation of the secondary growth, independently alto- gether of the primary, save and except its being an additional manifesta- tion of an error of nutrition, similar to that which has caused the first growth, which abnormal tendency may be due either (a) to congenital, and perhaps hereditary tendencies in the organism itself, or may be, as it were (i) a mere accidental and acquired deviation from the natural laws of growth and development; or, lastly, according to other views, these independent secondary formations are held to be due to the in- tensity of ' blood disease,' and consequent dyscrasia. I. («) With reference to the first supposition, that secondary cancer is induced by cells of the primary growth conveyed to a new site by means of the blood circulating in the veins, it is noAV admitted that this could only occur from cancerous disease of the walls or lining membranes of the vascular system, and more especially of the veins. In these cases portions of the cancer project into the current of the circulation, and cancer-cells may be swept off by the rapidly moving blood. Yet this " theory does not seem to be at all borne out by the usual sites in which we meet with these secondary growths, since the order of their production is by no means coincident with the course of the circulation. In numberless instances, when if this mode of propa- igation were potential we should expect to find cancer in the lungs, none is met with, whilst it is found in the liver, where theory does not require its presence. Then, again, granting that cancer-cells are swept off into the current of the circulation, and arrested in the capillaries of certain organs, if this is to be the origin of cancerous new formations, what are we required to believe ? Certainly things of which hitherto Ave have not had the slightest approach to what may be considered a distinct proof. We should have, for instance, to believe that one or several cells, separated from the parent formation, retained a sufficient degree of vitality and reproductive power to develope a growth similar to that from which they or it had been derived, and this, too, in a situa- tion where, I believe, as yet avc have no evidence of new formations ever being produced, viz., free and unattached, within the vessels them- selves. And if this method of growth seems improbable when the (cancerous matter is, as it were, driven into a cul-de-sac in the capil- lanes, it seems even more improbable that cancer-cells should become fixed, and grow on the inner surface of a large vein in the direct cur- rent of the circulation." 1 (b.) Eespecting the transmission of cancer-cells by means of the (lymphatics, almost nothing is known, although, owing to the frequent 18274 UEPORT ON SURGERY. implication of tlie adjacent glands, tlie agency of the lymphatics appears very probable. Virchow has, however, pointed out, that solid elements would necessarily be arrested at the first gland, and that thus the pro- gress of the cancer would be stayed till tliis, in its turn, acted as a fi'esh centre of infection. II. (a) Prof Virchow is the great advocate of the opinion that secondary cancerous growths are produced by means of a specific irrita- tion set up in tlie affected part or organ by certain ichorous juices derived from the primary cancer, and circulating with the blood. It seems doubtful, however, whether the degree of malignancy of a cancer is to be always measured by the amount of parenchymatous juices which it contains. If we yield this position, we shall find " that tlio hypothesis requires the aid of two or three rather remarkable postulates to lend it support. We have to imagine that this cancerous juice, even when diluted to the extreme degree, that it must be by being mixed with the whole mass of the blood, not only possesses irritating proper- ties capable of exciting certain morbid processes in particular parts of the system, but irritating properties of such a special nature as to cause the tissues acted upon to produce a growth similar in general characters to that from which the poisonous blastema was itself derived, and these effects, too, be it remarked, are supposed to be produced by a fluid which, for aught we know to the contrary, and which all positive know- ledge would lead us to believe (saving the exigencies of certain hypo- thesis), to be as bland and non-irritating in its nature as any other albuminous or fibrinous fluid in the body." (b) Mr. Paget believes that cancQv-'blastema getting into the current of the circulation and becoming arrested in certain organs, has the power of developing out of itself the germs of a new cancerous growth. But how this could be efl"ected, seems almost inexplicable, when we consider that this liquid blastema must necessarily, soon after mixing with the blood, be diffused through this vital fluid and thus be reduced as it were to a solution of extreme tenuity. The same difiiculty, too, presents itself as in the case of the cancer-cells, as to how and where any of this blastema could find an undisturbed resting-place in which to develope. Of course the very possibility of such an occurrence as the origination of cancer-cells out of a perfectly homogeneous blastema, would be strenuously denied by all advocates of the cellular pathology, whoso watchword is omnis cellula e cellula. III. " We may also consider these secondary cancerous growths to have been produced in a manner entirely independent of direct influence from the primary formation, and to be developed under the agency of tlie same conditions that gave rise to the first growth. In many cases, indeed, of nearly simultaneous development of cancer in various parts or organs, the growths must almost necessarily be produced in this independent manner. In tlie language of the humoral pathologists, who look upon cancers as the ' local manifestations of certain specific morbid states of the blood,' wherein ' are incorporated peculiar morbid mate- rials wliich accumulate in the blood, and which tlieir growth may tend to increase,' this simultaneous or independent development of multiple cancerous growths, would be attributed to the ' intensity of the can-SECONDAllY CANCEROUS GROWTHS. 275 corous cachexia.' But it may be explained also in a manner in harmony with the general doctrines of the cellular pathology; and that, too, I think, with the greatest deference for the learned and philosophical founder of this school, without the necessity of having recourse to the supposed irritating effects of cancerous juices. For, in reality, what necessity is there for us to resort to other methods to explain the production of these secondary growths, diffei'ent from those which are supposed to have given origin to the first ? They are all tumours or new forma- tions, and hence all alike come, in the apt and terse language of Paget, to be considered not only as hypertrophies, but ' parts overgrowing, and as overgrowing with appearance of inherent power, irrespective of the growth or maintenance of the rest of the body, discordant from its normal type, and with no seeming purpose.' The same errors of nutri- tion—whatever be their nature—that were sufficient by their deviation from the ordinary equable and normal mode of development, to give rise to these local manifestations of abnormal but inherent powers of growth, would surely be adequate to the production of other growths of a similar nature in different parts of the body. It seems difficult to conceive any reason why, when we meet in the body with several new formations of a similar nature, it should be thought necessary—in the face, too, of so many difficulties—to assume that the first has been, in some obscure way, causative of its successors, when we have every right to imagine that the same causes were in operation during their produc- tion, as existed and probably helped in the genesis of the first." " Seeing, as we do, from actual observation, how frequently these so-called malignant growths are produced in a multiple manner, we may assume that there is an inherent tendency in the organism to the production of growths of this particular nature ; just in the same way as we must suppose something similar to account for the extraordinary number of fatty or fibrous local aggregations, in the cases of multiple tumours of either of these types, which are from time to time met with in the body of the same patient. And the difference between the two cases seems to be this, that whereas in the case of fibrous tumours it is but rarely that such a disposition iS manifested, and the progress of the several growths is for the most part slow; whilst, on the other hand, with cancerous products, this seems to be the rule, that the state of system, or tendency in the organism, which results in their forma- tion, is of such a tendency and superior activity as to lead for the most part to the production of rapidly increasing growths in different parts of the body, either simultaneous or successive. And just as this ten- dency is capable of producing obvious and sensible alterations in nutrition, so may it also be capable of producing other obscure and imperceptible changes in the general nutrition of the body, such as fully to account for those cachectic conditions of the system so often met with, over and above what may fairly be ascribed to the effects of local irritation and ulceration produced by the various growths themselves. The fact that where many cancerous formations exist in the same body, these are mostly found to be of the cnceplialoid type, may be only an index of the intensity of the diathesis; which is also borne out by the rapidity of their growth, and by the fact of their scarcely ever passing276 REPOllT ON SUllGEllY. beyond tlie cell stage of developmcut, and hence does not at all require that we should have recourse to the agency of their ])areuci)ymatou« juices to explain this plurality. We can readily imagine that a ten- dency of the organism so marked as tliis is seen to be I'roni its results, may in many cases be handed down from parent to ofi'spi'iug, just in the same way as we see a close resemblance to the parental type in other respects, such as personal appearance, voice, manner, and mental peculiarities. But I see no difficulty either in our imagining that such a tendency or peculiarity of the organism may be also acquired in the course of life, through the slow and steady operation of certain hidden physical agencies operating upon the body; more especially when the activity of the processes employed in healthy nutrition are on the wane, at that post-meridianal epoch of life in which cancerous growths are most prone to form in the system." O. Fleming, case of ejntJielial cancer (' Dubl. Quart. Journ. of Med. Science,' vol. 37, p. 239).—Notwithstanding excision on two occa- sions, the use of potassa fusa, and the application of the actual cautery, the growth, which was seated in the popliteal space, recurred. " I now had recourse to ' Burnett's Disinfecting Fluid,'—a remedy which I had found, on not a few occasions, very valuable in the treatment of cuta- neous cancerous or cancroid growths, much similar in their nature. It often arrested their progress very efficiently, and the resulting granu- lating surface cicatrized smoothly and permanently so. A similar result took place in the above case; and, more than twelve months having since elapsed, it is reasonable to hope that the cure will be permanent." The application causes pain, but not for any long duration. M. Bergeron on chlorate of potassa in cancroid (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 603). M. Bauchet on cancroid (1. c, p. 527). A. Liicke on encysted epithelial cancer ('Arch, fur path. Anat.,' vol. 28, p. 378). C. O. Weber on the development of epithelial cancer in internal organs (1. c, vol. 29, p. 163). A. Hermann on cancer (' AVien. Med. Halle,' 1864, p. 32, &c.). 13r. Hitter, congenital carcinoma of the skin ('Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' v, 338). AV. Eddowes on operations for cancer (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, ii, 628). BONES. JU. V. Walil on phospTiorus-necrosis (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' vi, 212).— So long as lucifer matches were manufactured in large and well- ventilated works, no cases of this disease were observed in Eussia. But since these establishments have been closed, owing to certain regula- tions of the government, cases have appeared at various hospitals; the workmen, indeed, continued in secret to make the matches in their cottages under the most unfavorable technical and hygienic conditions. Among the symptoms the author gives violent uem-algia in those parts to which the branches of the fifth nerve passing through bony canals—especially the infra-orbital and mental—are distributed. When the pain ceases, the corresponding portion of integument is generally found to be completely anaesthetic, showing that the nerve has been destroyed by the previous iullammation. Tlius the author treated forPHOSPIIOUUS-NECROSIS. 277 acute phosphorus-periostitis of the lower jaw a patient who, after most violent neuralgia in the right side of the lower lip and chin, had circumscribed ansesthesia to such a degree, that needles passed to the bone caused no pain. The prognosis is unfavorable in only the more acute cases. Phos- phorus-caries and circumscribed periostitis, accompanied by a decided tendency to the production of osteophytes and plastic regeneration, may last for years without injury to the general health, and disappear with the removal of the noxious conditions. Even when in such cases a sequestrum is thrown off, extracted, or removed by partial excision of the jaw, little or no deformity or loss of power ensues. AVorse are the cases in which the periostitis rapidly spreads, in which it presents from the very commencement a destructive character, and does not allow the formation of a bony case, which, after the removal of the dead jaw, will preserve the form of the part, or enable the patient to retain the saliva and to masticate. In such cases we must not trust to the disease becoming stationary. Long after the patients have been removed from the exhalations of phosphorus, we see one tooth after another become painful, loose, and finally fall out; and, if we introduce a fine explora- tory trocar at any part of the gum, we find that the periosteum is separated, and the bone extensively bared. It is in these cases that, after removal of one half of the jaw, the periostitis spreads further, and necessitates in time the removal of the other half. Such was the fate of the first exarticulatiou, performed by Heyfelder in 1845—in the case of Margarethe Eumpler, who after submitting to a second operation by Stadelmaun in Nlirnberg died from periostitis of the skull and hectic fever. The rapid extension of the disease, especially to the bones at the base of the skull— the latter may cause purulent encepha- litis—renders the prognosis very unfavorable, and demands early and active interference by the surgeon. As to the treatment, the surgeon may wait in chronic cases for the spontaneous separation of the dead bone, merely extracting loose por- tions, provided the general health does not suffer and the discharge is moderate. In a pamphlet published in 1852,* which has attracted but little attention, Geist has related a case in which, after continuance of the disease for five years, the dead lower jaw was completely surrounded by solid new bone. AVhen the disease is very acute, when the periostitis rapidly spreads, and the general health suffers much from the sanious discliarge, the pain, &c., there should be no delay — subperiosteal resection of the affected part should be at once performed. As the limits between healthy and diseased tissue cannot bo accurately determined, further operations will often be required. The advantages of early operation are— 1. With the dead bone the cause of the ichorous, exhausting dis- charge is removed; the patient gains strength so that he can bear further disease with less danger. 2. The soft parts do not retract so far ; the remaining portion of the • ' Ueber die Regeneration des Unterkiefers nach totaler Nckrose.'REPOUT ON SURGERY. 27S jaw and the tliickcned soft parts give sufTicieiit suj)port where the bone has been excised. 3. Tlic bono is more likely to be regenerated, on the one liand because the periosteum is less damaged, on the other because tlie patient is in better condition. No regeneration takes place if the operation is delayed too long. Tiie author sums up the more important practical results to the following effect:— I. Phosphorus-periostitis occurs in a more acute or chronic form according to the intensity of the poison and the individual predis- position. a. The treatment may be expectant or operative;—in chronic cases the former with proper attention to the general health, in acute the latter. 3. The operation must be performed at a very early period. The surgeon should not wait for demarcation of tlie disease, but remove the whole part that is already dead—with the anticipation of later recurrences. The rules of general surgery cannot be applied to the acute form of periostitis caused by phosphorus. 4. In the operation the periosteinn should be preserved as much, and the external soft parts injured as little, as possible. P. "Wulff, cases of disease of the facial bones from phosphorus (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' vi. 225). Inflammation of hone.—H. Demme, case of osteomyelitis epiphysaria multiplex ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1864, p. 217, &c.). A. Gamet on osteo- periostitis epiphysaria ('Arch. G-e'n.,' 1864, i, 225). E. Volkmann on the histology of osteitis and caries ('Arch, fur klin. Chir.,' iv, 437). Necrosis.—Dr. Page and Mr. Person, two cases of necrosis of the bones of the great toe (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, ii, j8). E. Volkmann, necrosis from embolism after endocarditis (' Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' V, 33°)- . . . Caries.—W. S. Savory on caries and its relation to necrosis (' Lane.,' 1864, i, 4, 33). Juan Creus y Manso on subperiosteal resection in caries (or osteitis) of the shaft ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, p. 19): he gives two cases, one recovered after long illness, the other died. E. Blasius on osteogymnosis ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 105).' Exostosis.—M. Legouest, case of exostosis filling the left nasal fossa, and projecting into the pharynx, removed by an osteoplastic resection of the upper jaw (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 8^^4) : by means of bone forceps he separated the external wall of the nares, passed it outwards, ex- tracted the exostosis, and then replaced the parts; the operation was successful. Tumours.—E. Yirchow on enchondroma ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 90). J. Birkett, fibroplastic tumour of the shaft of the tibia ('Guy's Hosp. Eeport.,' x, !''■,()). 0. Steele, case of cancer, accompanied by great pain ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, ii, 60). A. Eansome, case of encephaloid cancer (1. c, p. 272).POROUS HYPEROSTOSIS. m A. jE. Durham on osteomalacia and on porotts hjperostosis (' Guy's Hospital Eeports,' 3rd series, x, 380).—In most museums there are to be found bones, principally skulls, which are much thickened and in some instances to an enormous extent. In the skulls the sutures are obliterated, the diploe more or less completely absent, and the grooves and foramina for the blood-vessels very greatly increased in size and number. Such specimens may be arranged in two series. " In the first of these series the bones are more or less uniform in structure. They are comparatively spongy, light, and somewhat disposed to crumble under pressure. Their general appearance has not inaptly been com- pared to that of dried mortar. All such conditions may properly be included under the name of porous hyperostosis. In the second of these series the bones are extremely hard, dense, and heavy, but, like those of the first series, they have a certain rough irregularity of texture. The several varieties of this series may be included under the generic term sclerotic hyperostosis. Now, it is, I believe, generally considered by the few M ho have paid any attention to this subject, that the dense heavy condition is related by succession to the light porous condition, and that the transformation is effected by a process of what has been termed 'consecutive induration' (Eokitansky). It seems to me, how- ever, after the most careful examination, that it is probable, rather, that although processes of ' consecutive induration' unquestionably go on in each, yet nevertheless the two series are really distinct, and represent the more or less perfectly cured conditions of different diseases. The soft mortar-like series illustrates, I believe, the changes which ensue when the progress of moUities ossium has been arrested, and a more or less successful attempt at repair and the re-establishment of normal nutrition has been set up. The dense and hard series, on the other hand, similarly illustrates, I believe, the cure of rickets under certain particular circumstances and conditions." " With regard to the transition of bones softened by mollities into the porous form of hyperostosis, the evidence seems to me very strong, and may briefly be stated as follows:—In mollities the bones become, as we have seen, distended and sponge-like in their general structure. In the skull the diploe disappears, and the tables become thickened; the sutures are more or less obliterated, and the grooves for the blood- vessels enlarge. All these alterations remain, and some of them become more pronounced in porous hyperostosis. Indeed, if a portion of skull affected with mollities be slightly macerated and dried, and then com- pared with a sirnilar portion from a skull affected with porous hyperos- tosis, a very striking general similarity in appearance is at once seen to exist between the two. It seems, to the unaided eye, as though the mollities-bone did but want the addition of a little more earthy matter and a little more general firmness and resistancy to make it ex'actly re- semble the other," Microscopical examination besides proves, that in general arrangement, shape, and size, the lacunas and canaliculi of the porotic bone closely resemble those of the bone affected with mollities, and that in both cases these structures differ from the corresponding pnes of healthy bono in precisely similiir respects.REPORT ON SURGERY. 280 8PIXE. S. Solly on diseases of the spine, &c. ('Lane.,' 1864, i, .375). ]). v. Thaden on spondylitis deibrmaus ('Arch, flir kliu. Chir.,' iv, .i5<5j;). J. A. Lidell on injuries of tlie spine, including concussion of the spinal cord ('Amer. Jouru. of the Med Sciences,' vol. 48, p. .301;). Prof. Eiihle on compression of the spinal cord (' Greifsw. Med. Beitr.,' i, 15). E. EoUett, syni])toms caused by compression of the upper part of the spinal cord ('Wien. Med. Woclienschr.,' 1864, p. .371, &c.). H. Dick, new instrument for the treatment of spinal curvature (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1864, ii, 203). Fractures of the spine.—Mr. Curling, cases illustrating rare forms of fracture and dislocation ('Lond. Hosp. llep.,' i, 1,38). P. Bevan, frac- ture of the odontoid process, perfect anchylosis of its apex with the occipital bone, and partial luxation forwards of the atlas ('Dublin Med. Press,' 1863, Feb.). Dislocations—M. Richet, two cases of dislocation of the cervical portion ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. ,'$74). J. Tldgel, successful reduc- tion of a subluxation of the cervical vertebrte (' Wien. Med. Halle,' 1864, p. 147). Pott's curvature.—W. Adams ('Lane.,' 1863, ii, 680). B. Lee, gastralgia the initial symptom of caries of the vertebrae ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1864, ii, 28). Spina hijicla.—Dr. Wilson, successful excision ('Trans, of the Patli. Soc.,' xiv, 214). M. Reiner, case successfully treated by excision ('Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit./.1863, p. 315, &e.). FBACTUEES. JS. H. Bichersteth on a new operation for ohtaining union of an un- united fracture, with remarks on its application in certain cases of recent fracture ('Lane.,' 1864, i, 325).—"From a consideration of the cases narrated, Mr. Bickersteth proposed to treat an ununited fractm-e by passing one or more drills through the broken ends of the bone in such a manner as to secure their perfect immobility, and without making any external wound beyond that caused by the entrance of the drill. The limb should then be secured by properly adjusted splints, and kept at perfect rest. After two or three weeks the drills may be removed, and water-dressing applied to the punctures. Tor several weeks after, it would, of course, be desirable to continue the use of the splints." In replying to a criticism by W. H. B. Winchester (1. c, p. 463), Mr. Bickersteth says (1. c, p. 621):—" Mr. AViuchester urges as objections to the operation— " ist. 'The risk' which, in his opinion, 'far outbalances the success which may occasionally attend its performance.' On this subject I have simply to say that the operation has only (as far as I am aware) been performed five times, i. e. twice on the lower jaw, twice on the humerus,UNUNITED FUACTUUE. 281 and once on tlie tibia; that no constitutional disturbance worthy of notice has followed in any instance; and that the result has been uniformly successful. '•' 2nd. The difficulty of performance. He writes: ' to preserve the ends (of tlie bone) in exact position, while drilling oblique holes through them, must be attended with extreme difficulty.' Had Mr. "Winchester ever performed ' resection ' for ununited fracture, or even witnessed this operation, he could not have failed to observe the extreme difficulty of separating the broken ends, so firmly are they, in the vast majority of cases, adherent by dense fibrous tissue. The bones require no holding, and tlie operation of drilling required no more skill than is possessed by the most ordinary artisan." A. Gt. Eeicl reports ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' ix, 1014) a case of un- united fracture of the tibia treated by Mr. Spence. " It resulted from a severely comminuted fracture of the leg, produced by the direct stroke of the paddle-wheel of a steamer in motion. The mode of treat- ment first adopted, and which was afterwards persisted in for several months, consisted in placing the limb at perfect rest by means of starch bandages, and at the same time giving the patient nourishing diet, com- bined with small quantities of stimulants. This treatment, however, was only partially successful; and as the amount of mobility had re- mained unaltered for some time, a thick needle was passed between the fragments, the ligamentous union thoroughly destroyed, and the limb afterwards adjusted in plaster of Paris. On taking it down, at the end of six weeks, it was found to be perfectly firm. It is questionable whether this mode of treatment would be sufficient for the cure of flail- like false joints, but it is generally effectual in cases like the preceding, where only a certain degree of mobility remains, though quite sufficient to render the limb useless to the patient." C. D. Doig, notes on fractures (' Glasgow Med. Joum.,' xi, 336). M. Miiller on the use of a plaster mould embracing the posterior surface of the limb in compound fractures ('Arch, fur klin. Chir.,' vi, 159). J. Cas- pary on continued extension of ladly tmited fractures (1. c, v, 258). J. A. Lidell on gunshot fractures of the^;eZt;is, &c. ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1864, i, 135). E. "W. Smith, case of fracture of the acetabulum ('Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' vol. 35, p. 174). Treatment of fractures of the clavicle in New York ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1864, ii, 42). Dr. Ogle, laceration of the internal jugular vein by the fractured portion of clavicle ('Arch, of Med.' iv, 125). Prof. Bardeleben, cases of fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus, plaster bandage (' Greifsw. Med. Beitr.,' ii, Eeport, p. 13). v. Thaden on fracture of the greater tuberosity of the humerus in dislocation of the arm ('Arch, fur klin. Chir.,' vi, 67). Dr. Drake on fracture of the radius by indirect force (' Prag. Viertelj.,' 1864, ii, i). Mr. Chassaniol, separation of the epiphysis of the femur ('Gaz. des IIOp.,' 1864, p. 39). D. W. Cheever, case of fracture of the femur in an infant seven mouths old (' Boston Med. and Surg. Journ.,' vol. 70, p. 355). E. H. Hamilton on gunshot fractures of the femur ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1864, i, i, 13), Treatment of fractures of the femur in New York (1. c, 1864, ii, 42). J. Tyson, treatment of fractures of the femur by extension effected by means of weights282 REPOllT ON SUllGEEY. ('Amer. Joiirn. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. 48, p. .328). G. E. Pyle, cases of fractured patella treated by Malgaigne's hooks (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1864, 1, 86). 13. Beck, gunshot fractures of both leffs ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 9). Dr. Berenger-Feraud on fractures in V (Paris, A. Delahnye). .TOINTS. Mr. Holt, case of chronic hydrarthrosis of the knee-joint ('Lane.,' 1864, ii, 265).—The patient was admitted on the 14th of January: the joint was greatly distended with fluid, slightly painful, but not red. Failing in all ordinary treatment, on April 19th, Mr. Holt punctured the joint, which measured i_5| inches, witli a small trocar, and removed a considerable quantity of thin, serous, and slightly yellow fluid, and afterwards injected equal parts of iodine (tincture) aiid water. After some time, the joint was punctured again; "two drachms of undiluted tincture of iodine were now injected, and left in. The patient did not experience any pain, and on the following day the joint was more swollen, but not painful. Prom this time the joint gradually decreased in size, and after another month measured thirteen inches. He was also able to leave his bed, first walking with the aid of crutches, and after- wards with sticks, when he left the hospital for the country, being able to get about with comparative comfort." Frof. W. Btisch, conti-ibutions to the Jcnowledge of contractures in the hip- and knee-joints, and their treatment hy forcible extension, tcith re- ference to the cases observed from the ist Nov., 1855, to the ist October, 1861 ('Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' iv, 50).—It is well kno\vn that in the great majority of cases of inflammation of the hip-joint, the extremity is at the commencement of the disease flexed, rotated outwards, and slightly abducted ; at a later period it continues to be flexed, but the rotation outwards becomes rotation inwards, and the abduction adduc- tion. The former position appears, from the experiments of Bonnet and Dittel, to be a purely mechanical efiect of eflusion into the joint and of swelling of the parts. The latter is, according to the author, owing to progressive enlargement of the acetabulum ; the head of the femur then slides further and further, till at length it is arrested by the ilio-femoral ligament; should the caries still progress, the thigh rotates around this ligament, which then becomes relaxed, and allows the head to recede further. Prom the dissections ot Pi-oriep and his own observations, Prof. Busch concludes that the muscles do not contribute at all, or only very slightly, to the resistance presented by a false anchylosis; the latter depends on the shortening of the connective tissue in the fascise, in the ligaments, or in the sheaths of the muscles. But one case of firm anchylosis of the hip has been treated by forcible rupture at the Bonn Clinic; the eftect was only in part satisfactory. Nine cases of false anchylosis of the hip with flexion of the tliigh on the pelvis, were treated; eight of them had resulted from hip disease, the other one had foi-med during the progress of a diseased knee. The treat- ment consisted of forcible movements, the result being secured by the use283 FORCIBLE EXTENSION OF JOINTS. of the plaster bandage for foiirteen to twenty-one days; all tbe cases were improved, some materially; in one, Lowever, fresh inflammation was excited, so that the patient remained eight months in hospital. In six cases, tlie limb was straightened and immobilised whilst the inflammatory process was yet active; in four of these the result was very good ; in tlie fifth, the bandage had to be removed owing to pain, the lad left the hospital, and ultimately died from disease of the other hip ; in the sixth, death ensued from pytemia. Straightening the limb and immo- bilising it in this position, is undoubtedly the best treatment of the early stages of hip disease ; at a later period when the bones are carious and the joint suppurating, it becomes dangerous, being liable to aug- ment the inflammation already existing. Excision should be used only in exceptional cases, as a means of saving life; the author considers that a limb, even when it cannot be extended beyond 40° (compelling the patient to walk with great curvature of the spine, and a tolerably high sole), is more useful than after resection. In respect to disease of the knee, the leg is generally flexed on the thigh, rotated outwards, and subluxated backwards. The flexed posi- tion appears to be in some cases the mechanical result of efli'usiou of fluid into the joint, in others, to depend on swelling of the synovial membrane. Flexion is, however, not the only change in the position of this joint; in at least five sixths of all cases it is accompanied by rota- tion of the leg outwards. It is obvious that rotation can only occur where the limb is flexed to a considerable degree; according to Eobert's researches, it cannot occur till the leg is flexed on the thigh at an angle of 45°. As moreover it is not present in all patients, indeed not in many when the limb is strongly flexed, it is evident that it does not form an essential part of the process. There has been much dispute about its cause, some attributing it to a particularly powerful traction of the biceps muscle, others to the posterior crucial ligament. The author has, however, never found any particular tension of this ligament in amputated limbs, where rotation was very marked ; indeed when the ligament is not destroyed, after dividing the whole of the parts placed on the posterior side, and opening the capsule from behind, the leg can be again rotated inwards, without any interference with this motion by tlie crucial ligaments, a proceeding that is not possible before the section of the soft parts. Hence the author is quite of the opinion of Dittel, developed in his essay on the position of the leg in inflammation of the knee joint ('Zeitschr. d. k. k. Gesellsch. d. Aerzte in Wien,' 1859, P- 385), and thinks that rotation outwards is caused by the weight of the extremity, more especially by that of the foot, and that it is after- wards rendered permanent by contraction of the connective tissue. Dittel also appears to be perfectly right in attributing the angular position of the leg after the manner of genu varum, which occasionally occurs, to excessive wearing away of the bones on the inner side of the joint. If the patient, in a case of advanced disease, when both the cartilage and bone are undergoing destruction, rests the leg on its outer side, the articular extremities will press against one another with greater force on the inner than on the outer side, and as a necessary conseijnence, the bone will be wors {iwajr to a greater degree whereRKPORT ON SURGERY. there is the more pressure. The opposite deformity, that of genu val- gum, arises in a similar way, owing to excesive pressure on the external condyle. All the examples seen by the author were in patients who were still able to use the limb in walking, the joint being flexed, but the inllammation not being very active. It must be remembered that the leg and thigli meet naturally at an angle salient to the inner side, that the strong internal lateral ligament alone prevents the production of genu valgum by the weight of the body, and that this ligament does not ofler the samts resistance when the joint is flexed as when it is ex- tended. Thus the external condyles are more especially pressed against one another, and after a time genu valgum is produced, as the bone gradually disappears where the pressure is excessive. More important than these changes is the subluxation of the tibia backwards, which so regularly accompanies flexion; the author has found it absent only when the contraction has been induced by some other cause than inflammation of the joint, or when the arthritis had very soon terminated, as in some cases of wounds; in all other more chronic cases, subluxation constantly appeared. This deformity is immediately owing to the bones being compressed and destroyed to a greater degree at their posterior part; it is promoted by contraction of the corre- sponding connective tissue, and by tension of the muscles. Anchylosis of the knee is far more often false than true. AVhen the angle is not extreme, the patient, though compelled to limp, can still generally use the limb; where the bones are extensively destroyed, the ligaments relaxed, or where the angle of flexion is very great, he has to use a wooden leg or crutch. In a case mentioned by the author, both extremities were affected; the patient used his arms as crutches, and had gained such skill as to move with great rapidity. Froriep was the first to throw some light on the mechanical impedi- ments to straightening the contracted knee; in his 346th plate and accompanying text with reference to a flexed knee caused by long con- tinuance in one position o\ving to caries of the foot, he decisively proved that the cause was not, as generally supposed, retraction of the muscles, but contraction of the fascia. Prof. Busch had for a long time no opportunity of dissecting an old contraction; but even in cases of am- putation of the thigh for acute disease of the joint he found that after dissecting ofi" all the soft parts and dividing the lateral and crucial liga- ments, the posterior portion of the capsule presented such resistance to straightening that the leg remained almost at a right angle. More recently he has dissected three specimens, though not one of them was, indeed, the direct result of articular inflammation. The first was ob- tained from an extremely anaemic girl of 19, who had not yet menstru- ated, and who for many years had suftered from necrosis of the femur, as a consequence of which the leg had become flexed at almost a right angle. An incision was made and a large sequestrum was readily ex- tracted. Violent and repeated secondary ha?morrhage ensued from the soft spongy granulations coating the interior of the bony capsule; plugging the cavity did not answer; ligature of the femoral and pro- lunda arrested the bleeding, but the patient was so exhausted that she285 TIIEATMENT OF CONTliACTED KNEE. died oil tho evening of tlie same day tliat these operations were per- formed. The author employed the specimen to test the degree of resistance of eacli particular layer. For this purpose the extremity was separated at the hip-joint, and fixed on a board, its anterior surface being down- wards ; a weight of 3 pounds was fastened to the foot. Although the origins of the flexor muscles had been divided, the leg still formed an angle of 124° with the thigh after the attachment of the weight. After division of the skin it was 126°. The superficial fascia was then care- fully removed, and the angle increased to 133°. The deeper cellular tissue presented striug-like processes, of which one surrounded the peroneal nerve, and several passed from the middle line to tbe sheath of the biceps: the parts between the heads of the gastrocnemius were now excised so far as could be without injury of the posterior capsule,— the angle was then 139°. The muscles both of the thigh and leg were divided two and a half inches from the joint by straight incisions down to the bone; the angle scarcely changed, certainly not more than half a degree. "When, however, the muscles and their sheaths were entirely removed, leaving only the posterior capsule and a firm layer of connec- tive tissue with which it was covered, the angle increased to 150°. After a transverse section of this layer and of the posterior capsule without ijyury of the lateral ligaments, the angle at once became rather greater than 180°. Similar results were found in the examination of the other two specimens. Hence it would appear that the application of force sufficient to straighten a contracted knee, the patient being fully under the influence of chloroform, would not rupture the muscles, but only the more resisting fibrous bands. At the same time it should always be remembered that the vessels and nerves may be seriously contused, and that the bones may yield rather than these pseudo-ligaments. Another deduction is that subcutaneous division of the tendons can be of little service in such cases. The author's own experience has shown him, that where the con- figuration of the bones has not been much altered by disease, the limbs may be straightened, so as to place the articular surfaces in their normal position, and to leave little or no trace of subluxation; this was the result in 3 out of 56 patients treated for contracture, the efi'ect of disease of the knee-joint. In the immense majority of cases the articular surfaces of the tibia and femur have been so damaged and altered in form, that it is only in the rarest examples possible to again restore the bones to their normal position. The almost universal result is that the tibia is j)laced straight at the spot with which it previously formed an angle. Any sudden attempt at straightening the limb would involve risk of increasing the subluxation; yet, as the author remarks, any such dan- ger may be readily avoided, provided the surgeon is not so vain as to attempt to place every anchylosed knee straight at a single sitting. Whenever there is any but the slightest obstacle, the author at the first operation only extends or ruptures the parts which first become tense. Now, whilst the ordinary machine for stretching the knee is quite useless before such an operation, it is surprising how readily theMSPORT ON SURGERY. 286 leg may be extended by it, after the more immediate resistance lias been overcome. The special conditions of each case must decide how much may be obtained by forcible extension, and how much should be left for the machine. Should the latter not be able to overcome all resistance in exceptional cases, forcible extension may be repeated after a time. In lo of the author's cases the joint was still suffering from chronic inflammation—the patients complaining of more or less acute pain iji the knee as soon as it was touched. Nine of these presented the symptoms of white swelling; there were no fistula?, but in all the tibia was displaced somewhat backwards, so that the cartilage was undoubtedly destroyed. The angle varied between 130 and 75 degrees, the duration of the disease between 6 months and .3. In "the tenth case the joint had suppurated; four fistulas passed into a granulating cavity; the condyles of the femur had become irregular and worn away, more especially on the inner side, inducing a slight genu varum. The limb was forcibly extended in 8 of these patients; in the ninth there were symptoms of rather acute inflammation, and the joint contained a large amount of fluid ; permanent extension by weights was therefore preferred, whilst most active counter-irritation was kept up by the actual cautery, &c. In five months the leg was straight, but there was rather a considerable subluxation, and the patella was anchylosed ; the patient could walk with the help of a machine. Similar treatment was employed in the tenth case ; in six months the limb was straight, and the patient, assisted by a high sole, could walk without pain. A large number of cases, of course, occurred in which either amputation had to be performed for the purpose of saving life, or in which the inflamma- tion was treated by various means, with the intention of rendering the limb again useful by forcible extension at a later period. Forty-six patients, in whom the inflammatory processes had termi- ' uated, were treated by forcible extension; all, except one, were dis- charged with straight limbs. In the single case of failure a small sore formed on the calf, for the healing of which the patient would not wait, but left the hospital. The ultimate result was, of course, very various; sometimes the patients recovei'ed good use of the joint ; in other cases they were compelled to avail themselves of crutches. Once the peroneal nerve was temporarily paralysed ; in another patient the lower end of the femur was attacked with chronic inflammation; in a third an abscess formed, and left a fistula passing into the joint. One case of bony anchylosis was ruptured, and the limb straightened; unfortunately, only fibrous union took place, so that it was necessary to still continue the use of a crutch. The shortest period in which a patient could walk well without a stick, but with a machine, was 13 days ; on an average the patient could walk about the room without pain in about 4 weeks. In not quite the sixth part of all the cases, the knee-joint possessed some mobility after treatment; in all these, however, it had been movable before the operation, the patients being able both to flex and extend the limb to a certain degree. The author never succeeded in gaining any mobility when the patella was anchylosed. The patient287 DISLOCATIONS. can himself decide, from his o^vn feelings, when he can dispense with the use of a supporting machine; some require it only for a brief period, others must wear it for life. _ tj- t-j . o>r M. Eizet, treatment of spraiiis by shampooing (' G-az. ilebd., 1864, p A.6) M. Jarjavay on the puncture of joints affected with traumatic )i<emo-liydrartTirosis (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 593). 0. Eauchfuss on inflammation of the joints in infants (' St. Petersb. Med._ Zeitschr., v, 193). M. Morel-Lavalle'e on blisters and elastic compression in hydrar- throsis ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 609). M. Abeille on the injection of iodine in acute arthritis with effusion (1. c, 1864, p. 41). Dr. Klein on the origin of loose cartilages ('Arch, fur path. Anat.,' vol. xxix, p. 190). V. Duval on false anchylosis of the knee (pp. 116, Paris, J. B. Bailliere). M. Collineau on a case of acute tubercular disease of the Up-joint ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 837). M. Giraud-Teulon on measuring the length of the lower extremity (1. c, 1864, p. 228). C. H. Moore, a singular case of periodical inflammation of the hnee- ioint ('Lane.,' 1864, i, 485). B. B. Miles on gunshot injuries of the knee-joint ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1864,1, 50). Prof Bardeleben, cases of wounds of the knee-joint (' Greifsw. Med. Beitr.,' ii, Eeport, 23), and case of acute suppuration of the knee-joint (1. c, p. 28). DISLOCATIONS. A. ChSrin, case in which the forearm was torn off during an attempt at reduction of an old dislocation of the humerus (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, p. 299; and 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1864,1, 400).—A woman, ast. 63, entered the St. Louis Hospital for a dislocation of the left shoulder, of three months' date, the arm being completely paralysed. The sensi- bility of the skin, though diminished, was not lost; there was no change in the temperature, but the lower part of the forearm and the hand were oedematous. She suffered violent pains in the limb. The patient having been placed under chloroform, extension was made by four intelligent assistants, through the medium of bands applied at the wrist. While traction was being gently made, the limb suddenly separated, and fell to the ground. The artery, which bled freely, was tied; the end of the humerus was excised, and covered over by a lateral flap which had been left. On examination, the limb was found to have separated at the elbow-joint, and every tissue, muscle, bone, vessel, &c., was found in a soft and friable condition. The muscles separated under the pressure of the finger just like a soft coagulum of blood. M. Gu6rin attributed these lesions to compression of the brachial plexus by the head of the humerus. Messrs. Broca and Houel doubted whether traumatic paralysis could, in three months, cause such changes in the bone. Acccordiug to them, there must have been atrophic softening long before the accident. According to this hypothesis, the same alteration would be found in most of the bones of the skeleton. The patient died 12 days later, and it was then found that the bones of the luxated limb were the only ones softened.HEPOUT ON SUKGEUY. 288 H. Harley, rupture of the axillary vein from a disloeatiou of tlic humerus iuto the axilla (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, ii, 634). P. J. AV. llcuke, anatomy and mecliauism of the joints with reference to dislocations, &c. (Leipz., C. P. Winter). Pathological dislocalions:—Dr. Dittel, cases of reduction ('Wien. Med. Ilailc,' 1863, p. 477). Dr. Zeis and Prof. Buscli, remarks ou Wildberger's cases of reduction (' Deutsche Klin., '1864, p. 234 ; ' Berl. Klin. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 263). Prof. Schuli, case ('Hpit. Zeit.,' 1864, p. 148). W. Eoser, the theory of spontaneous luxations ('Arch, der Heilk.,' 1864, p. 542). Mr. Couper, an account of an attempt to reduce a dislocation of the jato, of nearly four months' standing ('Lond. llosp. Eep.,' i, 262). F. C. Skey, case of dislocation of the pelvis ('Lane.,' 1864, r, 31). Dr. Hahn on incomplete dislocation of the elbow (' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' vol. 120, p. 88). J. Q-. Petrequiu, the doctrines of Hippocrates as to dislocation of the elbow ('Graz. Hebd.,' 1864, p. 543). Dr. Dittel on reduction of dislocation of the thumb backwards ('Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,' 1863, p. 106). J. C. Wordsworth on metacarpo-phalangeal dis- location of the thumb (' Lane.,' 1863, ii, 443). W. E. Lee, case of dis- location of the thumb (1. c., p. 480). Dr. v. Poller, dislocation of the hip backwards reduced on the 3rd day by the method of Busch ('Arch, fiir klin. Ciiir.,' vi, 206). Dr. Sawostitzki, complete dislocation of the leff at the knee forwards and outwards (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' v, 253). Prof. Linharfc, complete dislocation of the leg, reduction, cure ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1864, pp. 357, 369). J. Hutchinson, clinical lecture on cases of dislocation of the foot backwards, with fracture of the fibula ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, i, 449). EXCISIONS. W. Fergusson on excision of the hiee ('Lane.,' 1864, ii, 31, 59).—Li comparing the results of excision with those of amputation, the author remarks that " a well-healed stump never in reality improves, unless, possibly, it gets somewhat more callous, whilst often it gets more tender and irritable; but the seeming perfect result of excision at the end of six or twelve months (just when stumps are generally at the best) is no criterion of true perfection. If the limb is properly managed afterwards, it goes on improving for months—aye, for years. Without again discussing the question as to length, and without applying the remark to all, I can affirm, from ample experience in my own practice, that thigh, leg, and foot, enlarge in bulk; and, in par- ticular, that with this change the leg and foot improve in muscular energy. It may to some be more impressive when I say that the calf of the leg shows again in increased muscularity and vigour. This oh- serA'ation has never yet, I believe, been dwelt upon by those who liave written of the good qualities of limbs after excision; but it is an im- portant fact, and one which, in my opinion, goes far to balance that of shortening, which has been so eagerly put forward by writers previously referred to." The autlior insists strongly on the value of the foot, quoting, as examples, Ducornet, who painted with his toes, and Hervio289 EXCISION OF TUB KNEE. Niino, a famous gymnast in his day. " The object of these remarks i« to draw attention to the value of the foot, whetlier it comes directly in contact with the ground, or is the point of attachment for something to make up 'the proper length of limb on that side. In an anchylosecl knee tlie foot is of great importance in progression. Besides the me- chanical construction of the foot, its comparative size is of enormous value as a support; and what tissue of a stump in the thigh can compare with that of the sole and heel of the perfect foot ? " But I feel almost ashamed to carry this argument further. Persons out of our profession would think it strange to hear an argument in the College of Surgeons to show that the possession of a healthy foot is better than the absence of a foot; that a foot, leg, and lower third of the thigh, all free from disease, are better than nine inches only of a shrivelled thigh; that a nearly whole limb, two feet or two feet and a half long, is better than a shortened and shrivelled thigh which measures some nine or twelve inches from the hip. Tet such is the seeming argument to which I have been forced, for those who have opposed the operation of excision of the knee have almost invariably represented a good stump, as it is called, as superior to any limb preserved by such a proceeding. My own impression, however, is very different. I cannot say of a single instance coming under my own observation, that am- putation would have been better. I am not here to say that excision must invariably be superior to amputation; but this I will say without hesitation, that however short the limb may be after this operation, the parts preserved, provided the original disease is cured, and no special or great distortion be left, must be beyond measure superior to the best stump that can be made. I care not whether the liinb may be five or nine inches shorter than the other, my impression is that were the femur so much diminished in length by cutting and by want of de- velopment that the foot on the damaged side should actually be above the level of the sound knee, its presence would ensure a better support than a stump of the thigh. I thus admit and take what may be con- sidered an extreme case, such as has never yet been brought forward, and such as is likely to occur rarely, if ever. I do so to meet the exigencies raised by Messrs. Pemberton and Humphry, and par- ticularly to meet the all-important question as to the propriety of per- formiug this operation on young persons in whom the bones have not attained their full length. The reasoning—if such it may be called— on this question has been remarkable. It amounts to this: that as the limb does not grow after this operation in young persons in proportion to the rest of the body, particularly in proportion to the other limb, it should not be performed; for this want of growth, great or small, is an insurmountable objection. Tet, as I have shown, the shortening is likely to be as great after a tedious recovery extending over years from disease of the knee in early life. Por example, look at this leg and foot, and compare them with the other (referring to a cast). These shrivelled parts are the result of disease. But that is, indeed, a fa- vorable acceptation of this objection; and, to say the truth, it is not the view taken by those to whom I refer, nor is it a view which I myself admit for a moment. The question is not in such cases between 19290 heport on SUaGERY. excision and the cure of the disease: it is between excision and am- putation." Mr. Eergusson recommends even a repetition of the operation in certain cases. " In my own early aspirations regarding this operation, I always kept amputation in reserve as the last resource, either at the time of excision, or weeks or months afterwards ; but my views in this respect have been considerably modified. I prepared myself to meet with failures at every stage ; aud then, as I thought, the patient, if not slain outright, could but submit to amputation. Such a view as this •was extensively acted upon by Dr. Humphry, for of 13 cases am- putation was performed in 4 instances, happily all recovering. But I have since altered my opinion considerably on this point, and now look upon amputation as a step rarely to be anticipated in such cases. I can conceive it possible that a seeming necessity might arise at the moment of excision to resort to amputation: I have taken this step twice myself But in instances where all does not go on well after- wards, instead of taking fright or losing heart at an early period, I ask for time; and when that does not suffice, I believe dealing freely with the wound, opening sinuses, clearing away strumous effete material, picking away loose necrosed pieces of bone, gouging away bare material of the kind—ay, even opening up the whole surfaces, and sawing oft' fresh pieces of bone—to be better than amputation. To do all this, particularly to repeat excision—to perform resection, as it may with propriety be called—seems an admission of failure; but it is no more so than having to repeat an original amputation of the thigh, as has frequently been done. The results are or may be very different, how- ever, for there is still the limb left to compare with the abbreviated stump. " There is more, however, in these words than may appear ; for I do not speak from theory, but from actual experience. In October, 1862, Jane Bolton came under my care in King's College Hospital to have her limb removed, after unsuccessful excision of the knee. There was no ossiflc union, and a considerable portion of the lower end of the femur protruded through a large opening in front of what remained of the original knee. Bearing in mind what I had occasionally done in cases of unsatisfactory results of excision at the elbow, I opened up the parts, took away the projecting portion of bone, trimmed here and there, and ultimately succeeded in getting a sound cicatrix, a perfect anchylosis, and a limb so strong that, although shorter than its fellow by several inches, the patient was delighted with it; yet when she came to town, and for months even after the second conservative operation, she was anxious that amputation should be performed. I have since repeated similar operations with the most satisfactory results, and, as a general practice, I decidedly recommend it in preference to amputation, as the secondary alternative." Br. Dontrelepont on excision of tlie elhow-joint ('Arch, fiir Klin. Chir.,' vi, 86).—According to existing statistics, the results were in 333 cases of this operation, as follows;—291 EXCISION OP THE ELBOW-JOINT. Death Ainputatiou Anchylosis Mobility 40 or 12 per cent. 14 » 4"2 » 23 » 6 9 „ 256 „ 76-87 » To these cases the author adds 20, 18 of total and a of partial excision, performed hy Professor Busch since 1858 at the Bonn Clinic. Of these three died; in one a secondary amputation was performed, and after the stump had nearly healed, death resulted from internal strangulation; another death ensued from tuberculosis, and a third from pyemia. The author is of opinion, that when there are signs of pulmonary tubercle, amputation should be preferred to resection, experience having shown that the stump soon heals, and that the patient improves after removal of the limb. The large cavity produced by excision must be filled up by granulations; through the profuse suppuration and the long- continued fever, the tubercular process is promoted, and the constitu- tion is rapidly undermined. Two cases of old dislocation of the head of the radius were submitted to resection. As this operation has been rarely performed,—Heyfelder quotes three cases, of which only one ended favorably,—we append a brief account of them both. Adelheid K., jet. 16, of Kbnigswinter, presented on her admis- sion the following symptoms :—the left forearm was about an inch and a half shorter than the right one. Towards the lower third the ulna formed a considerable projection backwards. At the outer and back part of the elbow, the upper end of the radius formed a prominence about three quarters of an inch in height. The patient could furnish no account of the history; the symptoms showed that there had been a fracture of the ulna, and that there still remained a dislocation of the head of the radius. On the 14th May, 1858, the upper part of the radius was excised, the rest of the bone being replaced opposite the external condyle, and the wound united by suture. The wound healed in the course of a month, and the radius showed no tendency to luxation. On the 22nd June an attempt was unsuccessfully made to refracture the ulna; on the 24th osteotomy was performed. On the i6th August she was discharged with a perfectly straight arm. According to later information, the arm has become just as serviceable as the other one; flexion and extension, pronation and supination are perfect. Bernhard Z., set. 22, from Dambruch, suffered from inflammation of the elbow-joint and periostitis humeri, owing to a fall when he was 16 years old. The head of the radius, which had become dislocated, was excised on the 25th February, i860 ; the wound healed by granula- tions. The mobility of the joint still remained much impaired. Porced movements under chloroform were used ; and on the 2jth June he could extend his arm to an angle of 121°, and flex it to one of 15°. C. Hueter, the longitudinal incision in excision of the knee-joint ('Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' v, 323).—The incision commences a little above the internal condyle, passes down in a line with the anterior edge of the in- ternal lateral ligament, and ends just above the insertion of the sartorius. The knee should be extended, and the knife carried at once down to the bone. The internal lateral ligament is then cut across, and tlieUEPOUT OX SUllGKEY. ' capsule divided along the ui)[)er aud iiiner side of tlic feiiiiir. Tlie knee being Hexed, the patella is dielocuted over the outer edge of the external condyle. The crucial ligaments arc now exposed and may be readily divided; by strongly Hexing tiio limb, easy access is gained to the ex- ternal lateral ligament. The rest of the operation may be performed in the usual manner. B. Laugenbcck on subperiosteal excision, &c. (' Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 2). T. Holmes on excision of the elbow in childhood (' Lane.,' j86j, ii, 359). ¥. Wander on excision of the wrist ('Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' vi, 213). A. Eulenburg, reports of six cases of excision of the Jiip (' Greifsw. Med. Beitr.,' ii, 72). T. Holmes on excision of the hip ('Lane.,' 1864, ii, 234). Or. M. Humphry on excision of the knee (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, ii, 179). T. Hartag, subperiosteal ex- cision of the external malleolus for caries ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 147). AMPUTATION. A. Heivson on Pirogoff's amputation ('Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. 48, p. 121).—The author treated the stump in the fol- lowing manner:—" the flaps were brought together by leaden stitches, and all the ligatures of the arteries, save that at the plantar, were brought out at either angle. No dressing was applied over the wound, but it was left uncovered. The stump was put in a fracture-box, and the weight of a brick, about 4I lbs., was applied by means of a long aud broad strip of adhesive plaster on the back of the leg to overcome all tendency to displacement of the os calsis, by contractions of the muscles attached to the tendo-Achillis." Five cases are recorded: "in all a cure followed rapidly. In two especially, the result was least to be expected. These were the adults, one of whom was a seaman, advanced in years, and who had been lead- ing an exceedingly intemperate life; and the other a soldier, who had been wounded in a battle after long and tedious marching in pursuit of the enemy, and who was operated on four weeks after receiving his ■wound in a military hospital, where gangrene was prevailing to a very great extent at the time. How much the firm aud speedy union of the bones in all these cases was the result of the expedient resorted to, namely the strip of adhesive plaster and weight, to prevent the con- traction of the muscles attached to the tendo Achillis, is a question which we are not prepared to answer. The possibility of such a union not taking place has been the only theoretical objection ap])arently of any importance advanced against the operation. But how far such an objection has been realised in the experience of others we have not been able to ascertain. Our own experience certainly points to its being of little, if any, value. Tor surely there could not be found two more unpromising cases for any operation than those of the adults here reported, aud it is against the operation in adults especially that this objection would seem to have greatest force. The very perfect character of'the union which took place between the bones in Bowers' case, as is to be seen in the specimen which we had the good fortune to obtain after his death, fin-nishes as strong a refutalion as a single instancePIROfiOl-'l'-'s AMVUTATtON. 393 could of this tlieoretical objectiou. Nothing could be more satisl'aetoiy than the manner in which the cancellated structure of these bones has become blended together, making as perfect a uuion as ever takes place in a simple fracture or in a wound of the soft parts themselves. And this was the more remarkable considering the man's age (48 years) and his habits, which eventually produced his destruction." As to the value of the stumps, the author states that " all but one of the four cases operated on at the Pennsylvania Hospital were walking about freely on their stumps before they were discharged from the institution ; one of them, and that an adult, was discharged 70 days after the opera- tion. The exceptional case was Morris Letmmey who had a small sinus communicating with the bursa between the tibia and fibula, and which was speedily healed by the use of a single piece of sponge-tent after he left the hospital. The case at the military hospital did not walk on his stump as early as he might otherwise have done, in conseqrience of the necrosis of the fibula, which did not, however, prevent the union of the OS calcis with the tibia, which became firm in 28 days. " No such results as these have ever been obtained from the Syme operation—for not more than one half of the cases which haA e applied to Mr. Palmer for artificial limbs have been able to bear any pressure whatever on the end of the stump, and that a long time after they were entirely healed. The only case of a Syme amputation of which we have had the opportunity of seeing the result was unable to bear his weight on it a year after it was made. The least amount of shortening furnished by any of the cases of Pirogofi' here reported was one inch, and the greatest two inches ; these were both the adult cases, whereas the Syme always gives a shortening equal to the whole depth of the foot, or about from two and a half to three inches." J. A. lAdell on the major emendations for injuries in loth civil and military practice ('Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. 47, p. .361).—By reasoning, cases, and statistics, the author endeavours to show that primary are decidedly preferable to secondary amputations. " Primary amputations are more advantageous than secondary ones, because, in the first place, they aflord a chance of recovery to a numerous class of persons suff'ering from gunshot wounds, or other injiu-ies, who would not survive the inflammatory stage, together with its intercurrent disorders, until such time as the secondary amputation could be performed; and because, in the second place, primary opera- tions are a great deal less fatal, per se, than secondary operations. Such being the facts, it foDows as a necessary consequence that the proper time to amputate, in all cases of wounds or injuries demanding that operation, is during the primary period, i. e. previous to the commence- ment of inflammation in the wounded parts, or within a period of 24 or 36 hours after the infliction of the injury." He believes that the opinion of the military surgeons of the United States is unanimous in favour of the primary operation, and that even in doubtful cases primary amputation should always be practised, true conservatism in surgery—a conservatism which makes the preservation of the patient's life paramount to the preservation of a limb—fully sanctioning the wisdom of this recommendation.REPOllT ON SUaOEllY. 294 " The presence of a slight, or oven a moderate amount of shock, does not contraindicate immediate amputation; but if the shock be exces- sive, or even severe, then it is better to delay the opei-ation until reaction has been fully established. In tlie mean time, reaction should be pro- moted by the application of dry heat externally, and by the administra- tion of such stimulants internally as are adapted to the degree of the shock, employing the most powerful of the diffusible stimulants, such as brandy and carbonate of ammonia, freely in the desperate cases, and the same stimulants, in smaller quantity, or perhaps only wine, or even warm tea or coffee, in cases of a less severe character. As soon as the reaction has been fully established, amputation should be performed without further delay, because the injured part will speedily become inflamed, and such a condition of the limb may quickly supervene as to preclude a successful operation." C. O. Weber on the relative value of the different methods of 'perform- ing amputation near the anJcle-joint ('Arch, fllr klin. Chir.,' iv, 313).— Of 43 amputations of the leg at the point of election, lo were for recent injuries; lo for tumours, &c.; and 23 for caries; 30 recovered, 13 died—viz., of ten amputations for injuries there were 4 primary 2 recovered, 2 died. 6 secondary i „ S » Of 10 amputations for tumours, &c. . . . 9 „ i „ Of 23 „ caries .... 18 „ 5 „ or I death to 2*30 recoveries, equalling a mortality of 30-2 per cent. Small as is the number of cases, yet the difference between amputations for injury and for chronic disease is very marked. Tor the former the cases of death amount to 70 per cent.; i'or the latter, to only 18 per cent. The greater danger of secondary amputations also appears, for died out of the 6 operations, whilst 2 of the 4 primary cases were saved. Of these 7 deaths, 5 were from pyaemia, and 2 from tetanus. In the 10 amputations for tumours, i death occurred from pyaemia; and in 3 cases, recurrences followed after the healing of the wound, and proved fatal. In the cases of caries, 3 died from pyaemia,' i from tuberculosis, i from organic disease of the heart (fatty degeneration of the heart and liver, amyloid spleen). The average period required for the healing of the wound was 52 days, the minimum 30, and the maximum 90. Amputation in the lower third of the leg, as near, indeed, as possible to the malleoli (Lenoir's amputation), is yet rejected by many sin-geons. The author gives an account of the discussion at the Paris Surgical Society in 1856, and considers at length the various advantages and objections. He urges the importance of well covering the stump; for, if any part has to heal by granulations, it will again readily ulcerate. Much in favour of this process is the fact that the mortabty does not exceed 1&6 per cent., or, in other words, that there are twice as many recoveries after it as after amputation at the point of election. As to Syme's and Pirogoff's operations, the author finds that the period required for healing was, in 11 cases of Syme's amputation, on Wl average, 52 days; under i month, 2; minimum, 25 days. In 2bI death to 9 recoveries, or a mortality of 10 per cent.—T, W, AMPUTATIONS NEAR THE ANKLE. a95 cases of Pirogofl"s amputation, on an average, 4,3'6 clays; under i month, 9 ; minimum, 19 days. As to the serviceable nature of the stump, he states that, in 71 cases of Syme's amputation, it was perfectly good in 13, good in 55, useless in 3. In 4j cases of Pirogoff's amputation, it was perfectly good in 23, good in 20, useless in 3. In 12 cases performed after the method of Baudens-Eoux, it was perfectly good in 6, good in ^, useless in i. The point principally in dispute about Chopart's amputation has been the ser^dceable nature of the stump. The author states that out of 82 cases there were ^^o with perfectly useful stumps, and 32 with luxation of the astragalus ; most of the latter could walk, however, with proper boots. Throughout this paper the author compares his own results with the statistics of other authors. He concludes that in respect to the mortality, amputation at the seat of election gives i death to 2*55 recoveries, or a mortality of 28'09 per cent.; amputation close to the malleoli, i death to 5 recoveries, or a mortality of i6-6 per cent.;* amputation, according to Syme, i death to 5*9 recoveries, or a mortality of i4'4 per cent. ; according to PirogoiF, i death to 6'8 recoveries, or a mortality of 127 per cent.; according to Textor-Malgaigne (sub- astragaloid), i death to 13 recoveries, or a mortality of 7'6 per cent. ; Chopart's amputation, i death to 5^9 recoveries, or i4'4 per cent. In regard to the length of time required for healing the wound, the ojjerations of Chopart, Textor-Malgaigne, and PirogoiF are much the same; then follows amputation near the malleoli, then that of Syme, and finally that at the seat of election. In regard to the usefulness of the stump, the operations of Pirogoff and Malgaigne are the best; then follows that of Syme, then that at the seat of election, Lenoir's operation, and finally that of Chopart. B. Beck, statistics of amputations and resections ('Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' V, 171). C. Volckers on the statistics of amputations and exci- sions (1. c, iv, ,574). H. D. Garden on amputation by the single flap ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, i, 416). Prof. Bardeleben on previous ligature of main arteries, and on double or triple simultaneous amputa- tions (' Greifsw. Med. Beitr.,' ii, Eeport, p. 9). Prof. Esmarch on previous handaging of the limb (1. c, p. 11). Dr. Wodarski on the drainage of stumjys Q St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' v, 248). Cases of amputation at the hip-joint, by Prof. Gross ('Amer. Jom'n. of the Med. Sciences,' Jan., 1864); J. Spence ('Edinb. Med. Journ.,' x, i) ; A. Poupart ('Bull. Beige,' 1863, pp. 367, 447) ; and J. Payrer ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, ii, 165). G. II. Porter, case of amputation through the condyles of the femur ('Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' vol. 37, * Prof. Weber lias overlooked the more recent statistics furnislied by M. Debout (' Coup d'oeil sur quelques appareils proth^tiques,' p. 28, Paris, 1S62). According to this author, M. Velpeau has had 30 cases]of supra-malleolar amputation, with 4 deaths (i, however, was from phthisis, and not really the effect of the operation) ; M. Nelaton, 12 cases, I death; M. Denonvilliers, 10. cases, no deaths; M. Lenoir, 42 cases, 6 deaths; M. Robert, 13 cases, 2 deaths; M. Michon, 24 eases, 3 deaths; M. Michaux (of Louvain), 8 cases, no death; M. Vial reports 15 cases, no death, from the hospital of St. Etienne; M. Busquet (of Laval), 2 cases, no death. Tims there would boIIKPOIIT ON Sl llOKllY. 29G p. 12). Pi'of. Sc-luili on amputation by the mc/Jiod of Grilli ('Wicii. Med. AVoohenschr.,' J864, p. i). G. it. Symee on amputation al. the ankle-joint ('Dubl. Quart. Jo\irn.,' vol. .37, p. 65). Dr. Mosetig, case of Chopart's operation as modilied by Blasius (' AVien. Med. Hallo,' 1864, p. 295). SPECIAL SUaOERY. HEAD. W. F. Teevan, e3>perimcntal inq^uiries into certain wonnds of the sJcuJl (' Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eeview,' vol. 34, p. 205).—The experi- ments (125 in number; were made witli a view of determining, " firstly, what generally are tbe comparative varying forms of the apertures of entry and exit; and, secondly, to inquire into the causation of a fact ascertained in the course of experiment—the always relatively greater size of the aperture of exit." If a bullet be fired at the outside of a skull, with a full charge of powdei', close and at right angles to the part to be struck, a wound is produced which, for practical purposes, may usefully be called a typical wound. " The aperture of entry in the external table is cleanly cut, and of exactly the same shape and size as the circumference of the bullet, the opening merely sufficing to admit the bullet, and looking very much as if it had been made by a trephine. There is never any splintering or Assuring about the edges. If the aperture of exit in the internal plate be examined, it will be found considerably larger than the aperture of entry ; its circumference will generallj^ be irregular, though rarely having sj^linters attached to or fissures radiating from its edge. The average diameter of the aperture of exit exceeds that of the aperture of entry by about one third. The average irregularity in the aperture of entry seldom equals a line, whereas the irregularity in the aperture of exit generally varies from one eighth of an inch to half an inch. The size and shape of the aperture of entry made by a shot fired under the conditions already laid down never vary, whether the skull be thick or thin, hard or comparatively soft; not so with the aperture of exit, which attains its maximum size and irregularity in thick or hard skulls, and its minimum size and irregularity in soft or thin skulls. If a head be taken off, and then fixed, and a shot be fired through the foramen magnum into the skull, the above descrip- tions will equally apply and be found to be true, if instead of aperture of entry in the external table we read aperture of entry in the internal table, and if instead of aperture of exit in the internal table we substi- tute aperture of exit in the external plate—thus clearly proving that the aperture of exit of a bullet is always larger than that of its entry. In no instance was there a single exception to this rule, neither have I been able to find one in the specimens in the different museums." " That bullet whose velocity can be reduced to the lowest compatible^ with its penetrating the skull will produce the greatest amount of damage. Hence, if the distance be gradually increased, or the amount of the charge of powder be gradually decreased, a correspondin},'iy increased amount of damage will be produced. Bullets goijig at low297 CAIUKS OF 'J'llK BONKS OF THE SKULL. velocities generally make apertures many times their own size, irregular in shape, with fissures radiating from, and fragments of bone adherent to, tlieir edges. Tliey have also a great tendency to present depressed fractures, consisting of three or four triangular pieces of bone driven in at their apices, but still usually adherent, more or less, by their bases, to the skull; in fact, they produce very similar wounds to those that are made by a hammer whose striking surface is about the size of a shilling; and it is in these cases that the dura mater so often protects the brain, and entirely prevents the fragments being driven into that organ." Mr. Teevan discusses the reason assigned for the comparatively greater size of the aperture of exit, and proves experimentally that none of them can be admitted. The following proposition explains the real cause:—"The aperture of entry is cait,sed hy the penetrating hoch/ only, whilst the aperture of exit is larger than the aperture of entry, inasmuch as it is made by the penetrating instrument plus the fragments of hone driven out of the proximal tahle and dijiloe." P. G. Hewett, clinical lecture on caries and necrosis of the hones oj the sJmll ('Lane.,' 1864, i, 205, 239).—The two diseases very frequently co-exist—caries in one part, and necrosis in another of the same skull; or they may lie side by side on the same bone. More commonly, however, a cranial bone is affected by one of these diseases alone. Both diseases sometimes follow a low form of inflammation and suppuration, which may have arisen in the cranial bone without any apparent cause, or followed some injury. But in by far the greater number of cases, these diseases are connected with scrofula, and much more commonly still with syphilis, and the careless administration of mercuiy. In describing syphilitic disease of the cranium, the author says :— " But, laying aside the question of the eftects of mercurial cachexia upon the osseous system, there is stUl another difficulty as to these so-called syphilitic skulls. Are there any characteristic signs by which we can recognize syphilitic disease of the bones of the skull ? Given a diseased skull, are we at present in a position to say that the disease was of venei'eal origin ? Some of the best of modern pathologists would, I know, answer in the affirmative ; but of the correctness of their views, I must say tliat I have all along had very serious doubts. The features said to be characteristic of the venereal origin of the disease may be clearly marked in a skull, the history of which tells us that the patient had never suffered from syphilis The frontal aud tlie parietals are the bones of tlie skull which are said to be most commonly affected with syphilitic disease ; but in all the skulls in wiiich the disease is undoubtedly of venereal origin, it will, I think, be found that the basilar bone and the front part of the foramen magnum are also, to some extent at least, affected. And this is just what we might have anticipated, if we recall to mind the frequency with which the soft parts covering these bones are involved in secondary syphilis. The diseased appearances to which I refer are a thickened and tuberculated condition, with excessive vascularity of the under surface of the basilar bone and front part of the foramen magnum ; and in some cases I have even found this portion of theREPORT ON SURGERY. 298 foramen mnguuiii contracted by the deposition of minute nodules of bono. I have also, but more rarely, found a carious and worm-eaten appearance about the bones, which may, in such cases, be stricken with necrosis" Death may result in such diseases from various complicatious ; thus from erysipelas to which patients with fistulous openings in the integuments are very liable; from hicmorrhagc when the disease is in the neighbour- hood of a large vessel; from inflammation of the diploic veins or of the large venous sinuses; from inflammation of the cerebral membranes, abscess in the cerebral substance, or softening of the brain ; and finally from hernia cerebri. " And now as to the treatment of caries and necrosis of the bones of the skull: that, fortunately, dilFers now-a-days widely from the treatment re- sorted to formerly. In by-gone years the practice was to pursue and destroy the diseased bones wherever they existed : the more extensive the disease, the more praiseworthy the efforts of the surgeon. And in one ease you may read of the whole parietal having been thus removed ; in another, of the whole of the frontal, including its orbitar arches, having been got away by means of divers and sundry instruments. But such cases dwindle into nothing when compared with the case of Mchee de la Touche, wherein he glories in that he had been able to cure an extensive caries of the skull in the course of fifteen months, during which time he had applied no less than 52 crowns of trephine, 27 of which laid bare the dura mater. But, as I said, such treatment is fortunately by-gone; and with us the rule is that we are in caries of the bones of the skull not to interfere, in the way of an operation, unless the disease happens to be, which is rarely the ease, limited to a very small area. And in necrosi.^, the rule is, save in exceptional cases, to wait patiently until the diseased bone is thoroughly loose. True it is that for this we ma)-^ have to wait for months, and even years, but nevertheless surgical interference is not to be attempted, even with full knowledge of all the manifold risks which I have described, and which we know that patients must run in such pro- tracted cases. By waiting patiently until the bone is loose, large portions may either come away, or be removed, without any risk. In the museum of St. George's Hospital, there are two pieces of necrosed bone, making up nearly the whole of the perpendicular portion of the frontal, which I removed, some time back, from an elderly woman, who shortly afterwards left the hospital quite well. And in one of the patients now in the hospital, large portions of the frontal bone have, at various periods, come away. This has been going on for 29 years, but the disease has now stopped, and an examination of the parts shows a thin, transparent, newly- formed skin, through which the irregular, nodulated, and eburnated sur- face of the healed bone, with more or less marked excavations and shelving margins, mav easily be felt. " In exceptional cases, as I said, the application of a crown or two of the trephine may become necessary—that is, when there is not sufficient space for the matter to make its way outwards, and which may thus become pent up between the bone and the dura mater. And occasionally, too you may have to cut away pieces of overhanging bone, in order to re- move a necrosed portion which is otherwise quite loose,EXCISION or THE LOWER JAW. 299 " But iu every case of diseased bone of the skull, especially must we bear in mind that by active surgical interference we may lead the patient into those very dangers which, by operating, we hope to save him from. I have seen the application of a single crown of trephine followed by in- flammation of the membranes of the bi'ain and death. " We are then to be veiy careful how we interfere surgically with such cases, but medically we may do much good; and for this all medical treatment must, as a matter of course, be based upon the peculiar con- dition which in each ^individual case may have led to the bone becoming diseased. In every case great care must bs taken to keep the patient up by every possible means, and especially must great care be taken to avoid, as far as may be, every risk of erysipelas, and other liabilities which I have enumerated." S. Smith on contusion of the skull-bones (' Amer. Med. Times,' 1864, i, 35, 49). J. Ashhurst on injuries of the head (' Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. 48, p. 17). Dr. Guttenberg on •depressed fractures ('Arch, fur Idin. Chir.,' iv, 592). T. P. Pick on trephining, &c. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1863, ii, 543)> -A-- Goschler, case of recovery after fracture of the base ('Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,' 1863, pp. 298, 306). A. M. Edwards, cases ('Glasgow Med. Journ.,' xii, 58). M. Morand, depression without fracture, post-mortem examination (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 529). W. D. Spanton on collodion in hernia cerebri ('Lane.,' 1864, i, 268). M. Broca, two cases of traumatic aphemia, &c. ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 1864, p. 107). F. H. Hamilton on gunshot injuries ('Amer. Med. Times,' 1864, i,-6i, &c.). H, Eaphael, case of Pott's abscess of the brain, trei^hining, necrosis, and removal of the right parietal and part of the frontal bones, recovery, (' Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. 47, p. 414). J. h! Hutchinson, case of hernia cerebri (1. c, p. 423). JAWS. Trof. Langenheck on the means of i^eventing disfigiwement after ex- cision of the loioer jaio ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1S64, p. 19).—Scarcely any operation renders the patient more unsightly than this, and not only is the distortion permanent, but it even increases with time. When the whole jaw has been removed, and this operation has been by no means rare since phosphorus-disease became of frequent occurrence, the lower lip and chin recede so far back that they are in the same plane with tlie larynx; the profile is thus shockingly altered; speech is rendered diffi- cult; mastication becomes almost impossible, and thus the general nutrition is seriously impaired. Almost as bad are the effects of removing the central portion up to the angles. When one half only of the jaw is disarticulated, the face sinks in more or less on that side, the mouth becomes obliquely placed, and the remain- ing half of the jaw is drawn towards the affected side so that its teeth are directed towards the palate, and thus mastication is much impeded In some cases indeed, for reasons unknown, the deformity just mentioned does not ensue. If a still smaller piece, including the whole thickness of the bone is re-KEl'ORT ON SUIlOKUy. moved, wo find as tlie rule almost the same displacement of the portions remaining, as after exartieulation of one half. To avoid these results we may adopt one of the following plans :— 1. FrcservalioHofthc lower margin of the im-(ion excised. Tliis opera- tion may be performed in the cases of non-recurrent tumours (osteoniyeloid, osteofibroid, enchondroma, and sarcoma) which so often occur in young persons, provided the lower margin of the bone is not diseased. It was first applied by Ehca-Earton to excision of the central portion : it may, however, be used even in removal of the whole of one half Langcnbeck is surprised that this method lias been so little noticed; he himself has employed it with the best effect in six cases. In one of these, where there was a fibro- sarcoma of the whole of the luft half of the bone, he resected the whole of the diseased portion including the degenerated coronoid process; the joint was untouched, and the lower edge of the horizontal and ascending ramus was left in the form of a bony plate as thick as the back of a loiife. After recovery there was no change in the form of the face or in the mobility and power of the lower jaw. 2. Subperiosteal resection may be employed in necrosis; considerable displacement, however, takes place before the bone is regenerated. Langenbeck has therefore in necrosis of the whole jaw divided the opera- tion into two parts, first excising only one half, and when the bone was regenerated after about six months, the second half; notwithstanding this precaution, the chin and lower lip became much retracted. 3. Billroth of Zurich lately performed an operation in a case of phos- phorus-necrosis of the whole jaw with the design of ^jreseru/jjy not only tlie •periosteum hut also the neioly formed bone. The latter adheres both to the periosteum and to the diseased bone. By means of an incision along the lower edge of the jaw the osseous deposit is cut or sawn through as far as the diseased jaw and then separated by an elevator or by the instrument (Geissfitss) used by Langenbeck in periosteal uranoplasty'. In the case so treated the bony capsule accurately represented in form and size the portion removed and was sufficiently firm to prevent any re- traction of the soft parts ; no necrotic exfoliation followed, and a perfectly solid lower jaw of normal foi'm was the ultimate result. 4. "Where the periosteum cannot be preserved, it appears plausible to introduce foreign bodies into the wound, with a view of preventing dis- placement, till the cicatricial tissue has become sufBciently firm. Thus gutta-percha splints with steel points at each end have been placed in the wound; unfortunately such violent inflammation and suppuration ensued in five or six days that they had to be removed. A better result was gained by an apparatus like that used by dentists for straightening teeth, by means of which the lower was fixed against the upper jaw. Although in a case so treated, half of the jaw had been excised, very little displacement ensued. 5. Transplantation of a piece of bone. Non-recurrent tumours often affect only the part of the horizontal ramus between the canine tooth and angle of the jaw. In these cases it is possible to saw a piece of bone, 4 to 6 lines thick, from the coronoid process, leaving the slip attached by its lower extremity, and then to turn it round into the ■wound. Langenbeck attempted to follow this plan in a case of fibro-EXCISION 01'' THE LOWER JAW. 301 sarcoma. After au iucisiou liad been carried aloug the lower edge of tlie jaw as far as its angle, the outer incisor tootli was extracted, the jaw was sawn through, and the soft parts were separated both from the inner and outer side of the bone. Then the portion of the jaw was pressed downwards, the temporal muscle was partially separated from the coronoid process, and the latter divided by the saw vertically into two almost equal parts. The jaw was now again divided at the root of the coronoid process, and the diseased part removed. On trying to partially fracture the portion of the coronoid process, it unfortu- nately broke off. Tliis accident appeared to be due to unnatural brittle- ness, for on the subject Langenbeck found the operation could be successfully performed. Dr. Ivauow on suffocation by the tongue, in resection of the lower jaw ('St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' v, 255). Dr. Lehmannon preserva- tion of the teeth in resection of the alveolar process of the upper jaw ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 25). C. Volckers, case of osteoplastic re- section of the upper jaw ('Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' iv, 603). M. van Biervliet on osteoplastic resections of the upper jaw (' Bull. Beige,' 1863, pp. 582, 722). P. Q-rohe, melanotic cancer of the intermaxillary bone ('Arch, fiir path. Anat.,' vol. 29, p. 209). S. W. Eearn, case of dentigenous cyst of the lower jaw, operation (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, ii, 241). EXE. T. Longmore, ' Manual of instructions for the guidance of army sur- geons, in testing the range and quality of vision of recruits, and in dis- tinguishing the causes of defective vision in soldiers,' (pp. 78, Loud.). A. Zander, ' The ophthalmoscope : its varieties and its uses,' transl. by li. B. Carter (pp. 225, Lend. E. Hardwicke). J. Jago, ' Entoptics, with its uses in physiology and medicine" (pp. 188, Lond., J. Churchill). A. Zander and A. Geissler, ' Injuries of the eye,' (Leipz., C. T. Winter). M. Clot-Bey, ' on ophthalmia, trichiasis, entropion, and cataract in Egypt,' (Paris, Masson). M. Warlomont on the free use of sulphate of copper in external ophthalmia; (' Ophth. Heview,' i, 186).—The author has found the eye remarkably tolerant of external irritants. One case of pannus re- covered excellently under the use of the pure tincture of cautharides applied two or three times daily. Warlomont has even used glycerine saturated with the sulphate of coppei", and also the latter finely powdered, in cases of granular ophthalmia. He found that such large doses were very beneficial, and that they did not cause greater pain or more violent re- action than smaller ones. He ordinarily employs one of the follow- ing forms V— No. 1, I part 1 » *i li » f of sulphate of copper to 8 xiarts of pure glycerine. )j 3^ 3 " J A few drops are applied by means of a brush twice or thrice daily • (i) in fleshy pannus resulting from luxuriant granulations: in such cases Warlomont applies from time to time a thick layer of302 HEPORT ON SUEGERY. finelv powdered sulphate on the conjunctiva; (2) in the chronic bleplmro-conjuuctivitis of scrofulous children, where the eyelids are large, thick, and shining, the cornea is normal, and a muco-purulent discharge escapes from the fissure, so as to simulate a purulent ophthalmia; by these means the swelling, which frequently resisted all other treatment for months, was removed in a few days; (3) in vascular and interstitial keratitis, with remarkable benefit according to Van Eoosbroek. J. Ilomherger on a new mode of applying atropine ('Amer. Journ. of Ophth.,' I, 253 ; ii, 18).—In place of repeated applications of a solution, the author recommends its use in substance. Solid atropine readily adheres to the end of a silver probe, and a particle may be thus placed on the inner surface of the lower lid. According to the author, the alcaloid soon dissolves in the tears, and does not excite any irritation. Two applications a day appear to him to have as much effect as twenty instillations. In iritis he introduces " the fortieth part of a grain of atropine, in substance, into the lower conjunc- tival sac, M'hich can be easily done by placing the salt, with a probe, on the everted lower lid. The patient is kept for half an hour under observation. Dryness in the throat is a usual effect of the application of the drug, which soon passes away; only if further symptoms (congestion to the head, paralysis of the m. protrusor urinse) should approach, it will be necessary to give the patient, internally, -Jth to -^rd of a grain, or a subcutaneous injection of -^th to ^th of a grain of the sulphate of morphia. Though I have but twice been obliged to resort to these means of counteraction, I consider it necessary to have them always on hand. It will be well to examine the patient some hours after the first application. If the pupil has enlarged considerably, one application daily will soon bring about dilatation, and no further treatment will be necessary, particularly in cases of a non- specific nature. If the enlargement is noticeable, but of little extent, or if there is no change, another application is made with the same care, and the case re-examined the following day. On the second day, those cases which do not present a marked increase of the size of the l)upil, are, according to the current rules, subjected to the action of mercury, to depletion, paracentesis of the anterior chamber, or iridec- tomy. Those, on the contrary, where the pupil has become larger, are treated with atropine exclusively, and only those where marked constitutional syphilis exists, submitted to a mild mercurial treatment." Frof. K. Stellioag von Carion on luminous eyes (' Ophth. Eev.,' i, 174). —Beer, who first called attention to this subject, attributed the peculiar lustre to pathological disappearance of the choroidal pigment (cat's-eye amaurosis). It was soon found that medullary cancer of the retina at an early stage produces exactly similar reflections to those described by Beer, and the latter were accordingly enumerated among the symptoms of that disease. Tet the observations of Travers, Ammon, and othei-s, showed that sometimes after this symptom had been observed, the eye- ball gradually became softer and atrophic. This process was at first explained by the supposition that the cancer had undergone a retrograde metamorphosis—a supposition, which was proved to be incorrect byLUMINOUS EYES. 303 Chelius. It is now known that in such cases the tumours are of inflam- matory origin, that they are formed of connective tissue, and that they usually proceed from the choroid, although, in exceptional instances, they may be primarily developed in the retina. Such tumours con- stantly end by suppuration or atrophy ; they, of course, destroy the eye, but do not, like cancer, destroy the patient. They now pass under the title of sarcomatous tumovirs. The peculiar lustre is also seen in other cases—for example, in some cases of separated retina, provided the latter is thickened and trans- formed into a dense tendinous mass (see case by Alfr. Graefe in the 'Ophth. Eeview,' i, i6o). There has been some doubt as to the nature of the affection described by Beer under the title of " cat's-eye amaurosis." Himly refers it to absorption of the choroidal pigment, and supports his view by the light colour of the fundus oculi, and the lustre observed in albinos. It is true that some observers have not noticed the latter appearance, probably owing to their neglect of the conditions under which it can be seen. If an albino is placed in a partially darkened room opposite a moderately distant window or lamp, a properly placed observer will scarcely ever fail to perceive the lustre—only, indeed, when the pupil cannot dilate. The author considers rapidly advancing myopia to have been the essential lesion inBeei''s cases ; extreme atrophy of the choroid and consequent exposure of the sclerotic very much conduce to the production of the lusti-e; the author, can, from his own experience, affirm that it may always be seen in the most brilliant manner in such cases, provided the external conditions of the phenomenon are fulfilled. Even if there is only a posterior staphyloma, or if the surrounding choroid is but little atrophied, this symptom can always be perceived, provided the pupil is well dilated, and the eye properly directed with reference to the lamp. Stellwag also perceived the lustre in cases of fibrous degeneration of the optic disc where the choroid was quite normal. It may, indeed, be seen in normal eyes ; though it is very difficult to render it apparent so long as the pupil is contracted, there is not much trouble after full dilatation has been effected by the use of atropine. It is, for this reason, a constant symptom in cases of congenital absence of the iris. There is no great difficulty in determining what is the part of the fundus that takes the place of a mirror. If the choroidal pigment is entire, the room must be darkened, the lamp placed at a distance of several feet from the eye to be examined, and the observer must place a screen between himself and the flame, so that he may look almost exactly in the same direction; at the same time, the eye observed must be directed somewhat inwards. This is the only position in which the lustre is observed. The experiment is much facilitated by full dilatation of the pupil. Hence it is evident that there is in the normally pig- mented fundus no considerable surface which can act as a speculum • the opinion that the optic disc is the reflector appears to be confirmed by the fact already mentioned, that the lustre is more readily observed when the nerve has undergone fibrous degeneration. Where, from any morbid process, the choroidal pigment has been304 RliPOllT ON SURGEIIY. extensively destroyed, the exposed sclerotic takes the place of the tapeluiu in animals. For exactly analogous reasons, tlie lustre is very nuirkcd and very readily perceived in albinos. Itetiual cancers, liglil- coloured choroidal tumours, fibrous degenerations of the separated retina, very closely resemble the tapetuin in tlieir physical qualities. A. V. Graefe on subcutaneous injections (' Arch, fiir Ophth.,' ix, 3, p. 62) : ou the compressing bandage (1. c, p. xii): on tumours of the eye and its appendages (1. c, x, i, p. 176). M. Tetzer on contractions and interruptions of the visual field (' Wieu. Med. Jahrb.,' 1864, ii, 155). M. G-iraud-Teulon on the apparent size of objects seen tiirougli optical instruments ('Bull. Beige,' 1862, pp. 427, 588). H. Hancock ou di\ 'ision of the ciliary muscle ('Lane.,' 1864, i, 321, &c.). II. Power on some cases of irido-choroiditis treated by division of the ciliary muscle ('Med. Mirror,' i, 79). J. Z. Laurence on some ophthalmic instru- ments (' Ophth. Eeview,' i, 126). Mr. Critchett on sympathetic oph- thalmia (I.e., p. 178). H. Jackson on defects of sight in diseases of the nervous system (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, i, 480). E. Eose on the hallucinations induced by santonine ('Arch, fur path. Anat.,'vol. 28, p. 30). Dr. Schiess-Q-emuseus, contributions to the pathological anatomy of the eye (1. e., vol. 29, p. 321). G. Fischer, supraorbital neuralgia with retinal irritation cured by operation (' Ophth. Kevievr,' i, 349). Dr. Burow, cases, &c. ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864 p. 287). G. Lawson, cases of removal of eyes, &c. ('Lane.,' 1864, ii, 209). Dr. Kleinwiichter on the use of calabar extract in poisoning by atropine ('Berl. kliu. AVochenschr.,' 1864, p. 369). EYELID. Cancer of the eyelid.—According to Prof. Arlt (' Ophth. Review,' i, 272), when it is necessary to remove from the lower lid new growths which have affected its whole thickness (from^the integument to the con- junctiva, and even from the inner to the outer canthus), but which do not extend far down, not indeed more than 3 or 4 lines from above downwards, there is no occasion to replace, by transplantation, the ex- cised piece; for we may safely calculate on the fibres of the orbicularis gradually dragging upwards {i. e. pressing the lower towards the upper lid) the cicatrix which now unites the cutis to the coujimctiva, and that thus the patient will recover tlie power of closing the lids. Dr. H. Koller, cases of ectropium from Professor Arlt's clinic (' Ophth. Eeview,' i, 274).—The third case is to the following effect: a robust man of 33 had been burnt about the right frontal eminence about 14 months previously. During cicatrization the upper lid was gradually drawn upwards and everted, so that he could only partially shut his eye. An attack of corneitis induced him to apply at the General Hospital; 5 weeks later, when transferred to the eye-clinic, the inflammation was already passing away. The skin of the right half of the forehead was replaced by a cicatrix reaching from the root of the nose and edge of the orbit over a space 5 inches high and 3 inches broad. The outer two-thirds of the upper lids were everted; its ciliary border was applied to the edge of theOPERATION FOU ECTllOPIUM. 305 orbit, and Avas three quarters of an incli longer than that of the left upper lid. The edge of the lid was first separated from the orbit by an incision parallel to the former, but at a distance of 3 lines from it; it com- menced at the supra-orbital notch, and ended on the temple about 3 lines to tlie outer side of the external canthus. The deeper layers, in- cluding the fascia tarso-orbitalis, were now divided, until the edge of the lid could be placed in its normal position, care being taken not to injure the levator palpebras. The wound was now from 5 to 6 lines broad and 18 lines long; tbe flap, with wbich it was filled, had to be taken from the cheek. Union by the first intention resulted, and in 8 days the eye could be perfectly closed. After a time the flap somewhat retracted and drew the whole lid a little towards the temple. The patient was, however, quite satisfied with his condition, and would not submit to any further treatment. The greatest difliculty in the operation—that of avoiding the levator palpebr£e—was happily overcome by division of the contracted and tense fascia tarso-orbitalis close to the edge of the orbit, where, indeed, the levator is separated by fat from the fascia, and thus protected from injury. The patient was discharged on the 23rd day after the opera- tion ; he could then raise the upper lid enough to uncover the whole cornea when he was looking directly forwards. A. V. Graefe on the operative treatment of ptosis (' Arch, fiir Ophth.,' ix, 2, p. 57). M. Warlomont on palpebral phimosis ('Bull. Beige,' 1863, p. 195). Muscles.—M. Benedikt on the use of electricity in paralysis of the ocular muscles ('Arch, fiir Ophth.,' x, i, p. 97, and 'Wien. Med. Halle,' 1863, p. 459). A. v. Graefe on the form of convergent squint caused by myopia ('Arch, fur Ophth.,' x, i, p. 156) ; cases of paralysis of the 3rd nerve ('Ophth. Eeview,' i, 216). Alfr. G-raefe and Dr. Mooren on the treatment of strabismus by glasses (1. c, pp. 82, 169). J. H. Knapp on strabismus, &c. (1. c, p. 184). P. C. Bonders, memoir on the pathogeny of strabismus (' Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' vol. 37, pp. 232, 480; vol. 38, p. 223). "W. Frobelius, case of muscular asthenopia, &c. ('St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' vi, 382). H. D. Noyes on strabismus ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1864, i, 244, &c.). A. von Graefe on bringing forward the tendon by suture in comparison with the method by liga- ture ('Arch, fur Ophth.,' ix, 2, p. 48), Orhit.—P. Horner, case of orbital periostitis, accompanied by perineu- ritis of the optic nerve ('Ophth. Eeview,' i, 76). E. L. Holmes, aneurismal tumour (1. c, p. 287). M. Aubry, pulsating varix of the ophthalmic vein ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, i, 613). EXOPUTnALMUS. Frof. von Oraefe on the diagnosis between Inflammation of the CeU lular Tissue in the Orhit and Periostitis ('Ophth. Eeview,' i, 138). In a clinical lecture on a case of exophthalmus from inflammatory infiltration of the cellular tissue behind the eyeball, tlie autlior says " This diagnosis is of great importance in reference to treatment, for if 20'806 IIEPOIIT ON SURQEllY. ao.uto periostitis causes so considerable a protrusion of tlie eyeball as in this case (more than 6"'), it is always attended with suppuration, and, on account of the danger of its terminating in diffused caries of tlie orbit, an incision or an exploratory puncture deep into the orbit must not be delayed. On the contrary, if we are dealing with a simple exu- dation into the cellular tissue, it is not only better to delay any opening in the hope of resolution occurring, but allowable even if its termniation in suppuration has been already made out, that we may choose the most appropriate place for the opening, whether in the conjunctiva or in the skin. It is true that periostitis of the posterior parts of the orbit, which alone could cause an exophthalmos of this kind, commences generally with acuter and more widely spreading pains than inflamma- tion of the cellular tissue, in which the pain only begins with the pro- trusion, and only becomes distressing as the tension increases. But we cannot depend on this symptom in our diagnosis, for it is in this as nearly all cases, too much dependent on the individual tolerance of pain. We gain by far more reliable e^ddence from a careful examina- tion of the swelling, and by estimating how far the skin and cellular tissue are simultaneously involved. In simple inflammation of the cellular tissue the swelling surrounds the posterior hemisphere of the globe generally pretty equally, and extends in the natural direction of the cellular tissue. The protrusion is also mostly forwards in the direction of the axis of the orbit. Pressure against the roof itself of the orbit, as far as we can still reach, is but little felt; pressing the globe against the cushion of fat causes pain. In suppurative periostitis the secondary participation of the cellular tissue concentrates itself l><rincipally in the vicinity of the diseased spot, surrounds the posterior hemisphere of the eyeball unequally, and accordiugly often presses the globe more on one side; then the impairment of mobility is more marked in certain directions, less so in others; the pain on pressure extends forwards along the bone, on which accoimt pressing the finger against the roof of the orbit gives pain, even in front, some distance away from the seat of the suppuration. INIoreover, the skin and sub- cutaneous cellular tissue become more slowly involved than in genuiue inflammation of the cellular tissue. Here the skin of the upper lid, as the protrusion advances, becomes generally intensely red, or even of a dark red, whilst in periostitis it remains longer unafl:ected, or only covered with a rosy tinge. Finally, we must mention that in periostitis, in which only gradually infiltration of the cellular tissue supervenes, the consecutive protrusion of the globe develops itself more slowly; in genuine inflammation of the cellular tissue, on the contrary, more quickly. For all this the diagnosis is sometimes uncertain, as a narrowly circumscribed periostitis may serve as the point of origination of a vast infiltration of the cellular tissue, when it naturally loses its own characteristics amidst the symptoms of the latter." J. H.Knapp, case of exophtlialmus from orbital empliysema ('Ophth Eeview,' i, 84). A. Eothmund, case of neuroma of tlie optic nerve, &c. (1. c, p. 162), and case of enormous hypertrophy of the lachrymal gland, &c. (]. c, p. 163). Exophthalmic goitre—y. Graefe ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 158).307 AUTII'ICIAL PUPIL. Dr. Valentinev (1. c, p. 193). J. Scbnitzler ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1864, p. 245, etc.). T. Laycock ('Med. Tim. aud Gaz.,' 1864, ii, 323). M. Peter ('Ophtb. Eeview,' i, 346). M. Collard, case ('Eevue Med.,' i5tli Dee., 1863). Lachri/malapparatus.—G. Critcbett, lectures ontbe diseases (' Laiic, 1864, i,'89, &c.). E. rollin on tbe present treatment of diseases ('Arcb. Gen. de Med.,' 1864, ii, 340). Accommodation and refraction.—J. Z. Laurence, lectures on tbe optical defects of tbe eye (' Med. Tim. and Gaz,,' 1864, i, 360, &c.), and on astigmatism ('Med. Mirror,'i, 4). Discussion on myopia ('Bull. Beige,' 1862, p. 458, &c.). O. Becker on tbe mecbanism of accommo- dation (' Opbtb. Hosp. Eeports,' iv, 304). Calabar lean.—v. Graefe ('Opbtb. Eeview,' i, 36). J. Girtler (' AVien. Med. Wocbenscbr.,' 1864, p. 232, &c.). E. 0. Moon, cases of paralysis of accommodation treated by tbe calabar bean (' Opbtb. Eeview,' i, 58). B. Euete, experiments ('Arcb. der Heilk.,' 1864, p. 174). Dr. rronmiiller ('Deutscbe Klin.,' 1864, pp. 310, 333). Cancer.—E. B. Carter, intra-ocular cancer extirpated without return ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1863, ii, 583). E. Tbomann, cases ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1864, pp. 284, 291). Conjunctiva.—M. Vleminckx on tbe so-called military opbtbalmia ('Bull. Beige,' 1862, p. 540), followed by discussion (1. c, 1863, p. 60, &c.). Dr. Wolff on tbe treatment of Egyptian opbtbalmia ('Wien. Allg. Militararztl. Zeit.,' 1864, p. 6^, &c.). R. Scbu-mer, an epidemic of contagious granular opbtbalmia ('Opbtb. Eeview,' i, 70). A. v. Graefe on contagious inflammations of tbe eye (' Dentscbe Klin.,' 1864, p. 79). E. C. Hulme, 3 cases of conjunctivitis witli fibrinous deposits on tbe lids ('Med. Tim. aud Gaz.,' 1863, ii, 452). H. Demme, case of cancroid simulating pblyctenular opbtbalmia (' Opbtb. Eeview,' i, 79). E. Cbesbire and E. B. Carter, tartarised antimony in strumous opbtbalmia ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, i, 609; ii, 102). Dr. Heymann, case of neuro-paralytic opbtbalmia ('Opbtb. Eeview,' i. 158). Cornea. —Dr. Niemetscbek on tbe development of vessels in keratitis ('Prag. Viertelj.,' 1864, iii, 48). W. S. Watson on keratitis ('Med. Mirror,' i, 393, 457). Prof. Hasuer on paracentesis in keratitis pro- funda (' i*rag. Med. Wocbenscbr.,' 1864, pp. 3, 10). Dr. Scbiess on tbe patbological anatomy of corneal stapbyloma (' Scbweiz. Zeitscbr. fiir Heilkunde,' iii, 35). E. C. Moon, case of cancroid ('Opbth. Eeview,' IBIS. T. Windsor, iridectomy as a method of formincj an artificial ^upil (' Opbth. Eeview,' i, 11).—After describing tbe operation aud some of tbe affections in which it is employed, the author states that by far tbe most serious and difficult to treat are the cases of genuine universal posterior synechia, iu which tbe whole of the posteridi' surface of tbe iris is adherent, and the posterior chamber obliterated. A tough, whitish-gray membrane, even containing calcareous or bony deposits, and closely adlieriug to both tbe capsule and tbe iris, sometimes takes the place of the posterior chamber. Tbe iris is often fragile, so thatUEPOllT ON SUUOERY. 308 only shreds of it can bo torn from tlie subjacent exudation. Sucli a condition ia the result of irido-cyclitia, as remarked by v. Hasncr. Prof, von Graefe has noticed, in cases of chronic iritis, synecliia annu- laris pass into the form of synechia totalis. In some of these cases there has been no previous collection of fluid behind the iris; in others, the fluid exudation is again absorbed, the characteristic projections of the iris disappear, and the Latter becomes intimately connected with the subjacent layer of pigmented neoplasms. The tissue of the iris appears tightly stretched, and its fibrillation is indistinct; it seems changed in colour, partly owing to a difi'use cloudiness of the aqueous humour and atrophy of the stroma-pigment, principally owing to the continued admixture of red; numerous vessels cau be seen in it ■with the magnifying glass, or even with the unaided eye. Its condition is thus essentially different from that in which iluid is collected behind, where the tissue is au£emic and somewhat of a grayish hue. The whole of its surface is usually pressed forwards, so as to much diminish the anterior chamber ; the projection may he distinguished from that in annular synechia hy its affecting uniformly the whole of the iris, and by the absence of any depression in the region of the pupil. In such cases the iritic process cannot be considered to have ended ; for inflam- matory proliferations continue to take place at the posterior surface for an indefinite period. The treatment is summed up in the following manner :—"In practice every stage will be found between the annular synechia already de- scribed and the present form. Even in respect to the latter, we meet Avith much variety in the condition of the iris, of the subjacent exuda- tions, and of the deeper parts of the eye. In some cases a small peripheral fold may still be seized, and the aperture may be enlarged by the blunt hook at a subsequent operation. In others, a satisfactory result may be gained by the use of straight forceps and repeated opera- tions. Lastly, in the worst cases, the lens must be extracted, and an artificial pupil formed at a later period; it must also be remembered, that in these cases passage of some vitreous through the wound appears to be a condition of success." I*'. Pieber on the treatment of mydriasis by electricity (' Wicn. Med. AVochenschr.,' 1S64, p. 340). F. Horner, foreign bodies in the iris ('Ophth. Eeview,' i, 166). A. Q-raefe and P. Steffan on iridodesis ('Arch, fiir Ophtb.,' ix, 3, p. 199 ; x, i, p. 122). LEKS. A. von Oraefe, in a clinical lecture on cataract ('Ophth. Eeview,' i, 243), discusses the combination of iridectomy Avith flap-extraction (vide 'Year-Book' for 1862, p. 282).—"To sura up what we have said, iridectomy offers no protection against general or partial suppu- ration, but disposes the latter to a more favorable termination; it moreover prevents up to a certain point primary iritis and prolapses of the ins. Hence the general principle that some of the danger following extraction is obviated by iridectomy, and that we therefore should especially perform it iu cases which appear particularly prone309 EXTBACTION OP CaTAEACT. to such clanger. As regards its special indications, I some years back ('Arch, fiir Oplith.,' vol. ii, part 2, pp. 247, 348, in the year 1854) have said that iridectomy should always be performed if the operatiou itself has not gone ou smoothly; e. g. if, ou account of too small a flap, a comparatively too small opening of the capsule, or the outside of the lens adhering firmly to the capsule, the lens did not easily (jVule out, but had to be forced out with difficulty. Again, I attach importance to iridectomy -when, on account of imperfect apposition of the flap after the operation, the pupil has a tendency to get dragged towards the wound,' and thus to occasion prolapse of the iris. I also perform iridectomy where a hard cataract of the whole lens-substance occurs simultaneously with a small imperfectly dilatable pupil; where, on account of an unripe cataract, cortical portions of it may have to be either pressed out with difficulty, or even be left behind ; or where the former occurrence necessarily takes place on account of the toughness and cohesion of the cortical portions of the cataract. In any case, indeed, which especially runs the risk of an imperfect healing of the wound, iridectomy may be recommended as promising a better result, if circumscribed suppui'ation should occur." As to the proposi- tion to always combine iridectomy with extraction, Prof. Graefe men- tions some objections to this plan, and then remarks :—" These dis- advantages are, it is true, not very considerable ; but, as iridectomy is only advantageous in the minority of cases, and in favorable ones is most probably superfluous, weighing the pros and cons, together, I cannot make up my mind to perform it indiscriminately in all cases." W. Zehender discusses the form of the edge of extraction Jcnives ('Ophth. lleview,' i, 5). He says:—"In so delicate and nice an operation as extraction by the flap-incision, the weakest physical strength will more than suffice to completely obviate any such insuffi- ciency. But the more easily and equably the section can be made, the more certain will be the progress of the knife, and the less will the whole eyeball be compressed and drawn iipon by and during the section. This is the sense and signification which we attach to the above point. The great advantages of a well and evenly ground knife will be unhesitatingly conceded by all. And the advantages we are now discussing are of quite as much importance as these ; they equally aim at completing the intended operation with the minimum amoimt of force." He decides in favour of a convex edge ; " the centre of ciu'va- ture must, to attain our object, lie in a perpendicular to the widest part of the knife, or more correctly expressed, to that part of the edge which is to cut through the last piece of the cornea. The length of the radius of curvature is of subordinate importance, and may be regulated pretty arbitrarily according to convenience. The shorter this radius, the shorter will bo the entire blade, and vice versa. We have in oiU' instruments taken the radius at 4 inches, which gives with a maximum width of the knife of somewhat less than 3 lines, a very conveniently proportioned length." li. Schirmer on the spontaneous displacement of the transparent lens ('Ophth. Keview,' i, 69). E.Hart on cataract 'Lane.,' 1864, i, 405,6,31). M. Singer and E. L. Holmes, cases of pyramidal cataract (' "Wien. Med.810 TIEPOUT ON SUUGEEY. ■Wocliouscbi'.,' 1864, p. 213, &c.; ' Ophtli. Review,' i, 3^4), L. Eydel on zonular cataract (1. c, p. 365). G. Lawson on the treatment of congenital cataract (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, ii, 33, 268). G. Critchett, case of congenital catai-act treated by iridesis (' Ophth. Iteview,' i, 183). T. P. Teale on extraction of soft cataract by suction ('Lane.,' 1864, ii, 348), A. V. Graefe on the use of a broad needle in fluid cataract (' Arch, fiir Ophth.,' ix, 2, p. 43). M. Warlomont, case of death after a needle-operation (' Ophtli. Review,' i, 182). J. H. Knapp, linear ex- traction of a diabetic cataract (1. c, p. 86). R. B. Carter on recent improvements in the methods of cataract extraction (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1863, ii, 432). G. Critchett, new instrument, the vectis spoon, for the extraction of cataract ('Lane.,' 1864, i, 666). C. Bader on corneal incisions with scissors ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1863, ii, 434). Dr. Blessig on extraction with and without iridectomy (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' vi, 129). W. Probelius, some unusual cases of ex- traction (1. c, p. 28). C. Taylor, cases of cataract extracted by Mooreu's method (' Ophth. Review,' i, 262). Choroid.—Dr. Manz on tuberculosis (' Ophtb. Review,' i, i8x;' Arcb. fiir Ophth.,' ix, 3, p. 133). A. v. Graefe on the artificial production of suppurative cberoiditis as a means of reducing the size of the globe (1. c, ix, 2, p. 105). Vitreous.—A. v. Graefe on the extraction of foreign bodies, depressed lenses, or entozoa from the vitreous (' Arch, fiir Ophth.,' ix, 2, p. 79) ; and on the division of membranous opacities in the vitreous (1. c, Glaucoma.—J. S. "Wells, glaucoma and its cure b}'- iridectomy (pp. 86, Lend., Churchill). Dr. Magawly, contribution to the clinical history of glaucoma (' Ophth. Review,' i, 233). Case of Prof. Arlt's treated in 1857 by operation ('"Wien. Med. Wocbenschr.,' 1864, p. 394). J. Jacobi, glaucoma simulated by sarcoma in the choroid (' Ophth. Review,'i, 79). G. Braiui on glaucoma ('Arcb. fiir Ophth.,' ix, 2, p. 232). T. W. Jones on iridectomy and glaucoma ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, ii, 83, &c.). BETIKA. A. Wagel on a peculiar affection of the retina (' Centralblatt f. d. Med. "Wissenscb.,' 1864, No. 45).—The author found the following condition of both eyes in a young man of about 20; the whole of the retinal arteries from their entrance at the disc up to their minutest branches appeared as tuhite strings, which were sometimes glittering and clearly defined, sometimes of "a duller hue and with somewhat indis- tinct margins. A fine bright-red line was seen iii the middle of most of the larger strings. Here and there this red liue became somewhat larger, and where the white hue of the stripe was but little intense, the double contour of the artery could be traced, though indistinctly, as if through a haze. A very few small arterial twigs appeared normal, except that their red colour was somewhat dulled. The venous system also participated in the disease ; the larger trunks were somewhat diminished and irregular in size, and a few of their peripheral branches Tvere pbanged into wlii^^ strings. The degeneration generally stopped af;311 PECULIAR DISEA.se OF THE EETINA. tlie junction of branches, so that the vein appeared formed bytwot\vigs,one of which was red, the other with all its ramifications white. Some parts of the retina were a little clouded, untransparent: here and there a kind of network was formed by little whitish stripes which were supposed to be small vessels with thickened walls. There were numerous punc- tated, and a few larger, ecchymoses, partially collected into groups. White, translucent, prominent masses concealed the entrance of the central vessels on the optic disc. A great quantity of closely packed red points and streaks in this situation proved to be formed by vessels, whose origin and growth were watched for a long time. On slight pressure of the globe every trace of red vessels disappeared from the white glittering deposit. Contrary to all expectation, central vision was nearly normal. Tlie visual field, however, was defective; at first the defect was island-like near the point of fixation, at a later period by gradual increase it formed an irregular zone, which enclosed a tolerably circular, slightly excen- trical field of vision, and was itself surrounded by a sentient portion. It was learnt from the history that the disease had progressed very gradually, and that at difi'erent times there had been brief obscurations of one or both eyes. The author thinks that such sudden, temporary obscurations—not unjustly denominated epilepsia retinge—depend on momentary antemia of the retina. The general health is unaffected, and the heart healthy; there is some reason to suspect a commencing central lesion, though after watching the case for many months, the author has failed to discover any corroborative symptoms. This, although a solitary, case difi"ers so essentially from the forms of retinitis hitherto described, and is at the same time so well charac- terised, that the author has no hesitation in adducing it as an example of a special form of retinal disease. He thinks it must be considered to be a chronic, though slowly progressive, inflammation, which com- mences in the Avails of the vessels as a proliferation or induration of the connective tissue, spreads to the same tissue in the parenchyma of the retina, is transmitted from the arteries by means of the capillaries to the veins, and is possibly connected with similar changes in the cen- tral organs and their vessels. The latter suspicion is supported by the occurrence of the disease in both eyes. Wcdl, Billroth, Eindfleisch, and Leidesdorf, have shown that many diseases of the brain and spinal cord arise from the walls of the vessels. The author compares his case with one described by Eindfleisch, in which there were many centres of gray degeneration in the brain and anterior portions of the spinal cord, and in which the degeneration had evidently commenced in a proliferation of the cells and nuclei of the external^ coat of the vessels. The author thinks that the process was similar in his case, and that he might justly denominate the aff'ection gray def/eneration of the retina. C. Schweigger on the physiological excavation of the optic disc ('Berl. Klin. Wocheuschr.,' 1864, p. 2.32). M. Colin, case of disease from albuminuria (' Opiith. Eeview,' i, 84). Mr. Hulke, cases of disease occurring in the course of kidney-disease (' Med, Tim. and Gajs,'812 UEPORT ON SURGERY. 1864, i, y). F. Iloi'iior on the lesions of the retina, which accompany Bright's disease ('Oplith. Review,' i, 75). Dr. HiJring, case of retinal affection from Bright's disease (i. c., p. 159). A. Moorea on retinitis pigmentosa (I. c, p. 46). Van Biervliet and van Rooy on retinitis pigmentosa in the horse ('Bull. Beige,' 1863, p. 542, &c.). O. Just, embolism of arteria centralis retin.-c ('Ophth. Review,' i, 163). F. Horner, case of retinal tumour (1. c, p. 164). M. Fano, case of trau- matic separation ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 562). A. von Graefe on perforation of the separated retina (' Arch, fiir Ophth.,' ix, 2, p. 8/;). W. Bowman on needle operations in detached retina (' Ophth. IIosp. Reports,' iv, 133). AMAtrnosis. W. Maehenzie records a case of amaurosis coincident toitli oxaluria ('Ophth. Review,' i, 213). The disease was of two years' duration, when, on Sept. 18, 1863, the following symptoms were noted:—Left or letter eye.—The left optic disc is very irregular in form ; and stretching upwards from it in the retina are two long white lines or streaks, formed apparently by enlarged and obliterated vessels, the coats of which have become condensed and opaque. With this eye reads No. 18 of Jager's test types. Bight or toorse eye.—The right vitreous is so turbid, that the fundus oculi is not visible. Can read none with this eye." He was ordered a pill, thrice a day, consisting of two grains of sulphate of iron and two of extract of gentian. On the 21st, tlie specific gravity of the urine was 1020; its reaction acid; no albumen; octahedral crystals of oxalate of lime abundant. On the 28th lie was ordered to omit the pills, and to take ten minims thrice daily of a mixture of equal parts of nitric and muriatic acid. On the 21st Jan., 1864, it is noted that "both eyes improve; right disc much better defined ; little apparent change in left retina; the two white streaks in it unaltered. Reads No. 8 with left eye at five inches, and No. i with right at fourteen inches." This patient " had come from a distant colony first to the north of Ireland and latterly to Glasgow, in the hope of obtaining a restoration of his sight; and finding no benefit from the treatment which had been used, was about to return home in despair, when he fell under ray care. The result far exceeded my expectations. This is the second case in which I have seen much benefit from the use of nitro-muriatic acid in chronic internal inflammation of the eye, combined with oxaluria. It is evident, however, that in the present case a turn to the symptoms was first given by the sulphate of iron." J. Hutchinson, clinical data respecting cerebral amaurosis, more espe- cially toith reference to tliatform supposed to he connected with the me of tobacco ('Lond. Hosp. Rep.,' i, 33).—"A person, most commonly an adult, and usually a man, begins rather suddenly to notice that he cannot see well, ' there is a fog over everything'—he has no musca^, no Hashes of liglit, no pain in the eyeballs ; frequently, he has more or less of headache, but often not much, and very often there is more or less of giddiness. A symptom, I believe not hitherto noticed, is, according to my experience, one of those most frequently present, viz.—excessiveCEREBRAL AMAUROSIS. 318 tendeiiey to sleep. Oac eye is usually attacked a raoutli or two before the other; the left is mostly the first to fail. lu a short tune, how- ever, both eyes are affected, and within from 4 months to a year from the 'date of onset, the patient is so far blind that he is unable to read. Proin 18 mouths to 3 years usually suffice to complete the entire loss of all sight. Through the whole course of the attack, the patient has usually continued in excellent health, after the first few months the liability to headache, and the tendency to sleep have passed away, and all his bodily functions excepting those of sight, have appeared in per- fect order. From beginning to end, he has had no ocular symptoms excepting progressive abolition of the special sense. In this form of amaurosis the ophthalmoscope reveals to us remarkable and very con- stant conditions. In the early stage the optic disc is usually too red, and the whole of the choroid full of blood, and presenting the appear- ance of a pile of red velvet. There are no ecchymoses, nor any eftusions of lymph. In a little time the congestion of the optic disc diminishes, instead of being too red it is too white. At this stage, the arteria cen- tralis retinsB is much lessened in calibre, but its accompanying vein is of normal or even increased size. From this stage onwards, the optic disc gets whiter and whiter until 'all traces of arteries, excepting the largest trunks, are lost, sometimes, but very rarely, even the largest cease to be visible. At this latest stage the veins are usually very small, but I have never known them absent. Whether the stage of preliminary congestion is always present or not, I do not know, since a large majority of cases come under notice long after it is passed. With regard to the method by which the abolition of function is brought about, I entertain a strong opinion that it is not owing to any altered state of the eye itself Neither the primary congestion nor the subse- quent anaemia of the retina suffice to explain it. I have seen many cases in which the patient could not see, although the ai-teria centralis was still of fair size. It seems to me probable that these alterations in blood-supply are secondary to some deeper-seated change, and that the real location of the changes causing failure of the perception of light is in the cerebral origins of the optic nerves, i. e. in the tubercula quadri- gemina. The form of amaurosis to which I now allude is always sym- metrical. Its most prominent symptoms, however, white atrophy of the optic disc and shrinking of the arteries which supply the retina, are now and then observed in only one eye. These unsymmetrical cases, however, usually present other symptoms which clearly demonstrate that they are of a wholly different nature. They probably depend upon local disease in the optic nerve-trunk of the affected eye." The author records 47 cases of the symmetrical disease in adults, 12 cases of the same form in young persons, and 7 of the non-symmetrical amaurosis at various ages. These sufficiently show that there are at least 12 cases of the first form in the male for 1 in the female, whilst unsymmetrical amaurosis is equally frequent in the two sexes. In the great majority of cases there is no reason to attribute any influence to occupation, intemperance in the use of stimulants, sexual excesses or masturbation, sypliilis, or injuries to the head. Thus we arrive at the question of the possible influence of tobacco, in regard to which Mr.EEPORT ON SURGERY. 814 Ilutcliinson states " that iu a very considerable number of cases no probable hypothesis can be given as to the determining cause of the failure of sight, and that almost all these unexplained cases (symmetrical and well marked in all their stages) occur in men who have been accus- tomed to smoke." He therefore thinks that it is most desirable to insist upon ahslinence from iohncco, and that since he has adopted this rule, his results have been better than formerly. J. Hutchinson, cases of amaurosis in children (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1863, ii, 615). E. Lancereaux on degeneration of the optic nerves in disease of the hemispheres of the brain (' Ophth. Keview,' i, i 52). L. Danjoy, the dependence of saturnine amaurosis on albuminuria (1. c, p. 156). A. G-raefe, case of cat's-eye amaurosis (1. c, p. 160). Hemeralopia.—C. Kiittner ('St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' vi, 6^;). M. Netter on the use of the dark room (Paris, G. Bailliere). M. Desponts on cod-liver oil (Paris, A. Delahaye). EAR. Dr. Pagensteclier on trepliining the mastoid process and petrous lone ('Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' iv, 523).—The importance of suppurative inflam- mation of tbe external and middle ear with reference to disease of the adjacent periosteum and secondary changes of the bone is well known; so indeed is the connection between caries of the petrous bone and throm- bosis of the sinuses, purulent meningitis, or abscess in the brain. The ease is often truly astonishing, with which, especially in children, an apparently unimportant superficial suppuration of the external meatus, such as commonly occurs with eezematous eruptions of the face or witlx the exantheraatous fevers, induces serious cerebral symptoms. Yet after long continuance, indeed, as our first case will show, after almost forty years, can a circumscribed purulent destruction of the periosteum in the external meatus also excite disease iu tbe membranes of the brain and induce death. We not unfrequently meet amongst children both with acute cases of serious cerebral symptoms proceeding from otorrhoea, and with more gradual diseases of the bone, the former sometimes without, the latter generally after, destruction of the membrana tympani. Inter- mediate between these are the cases, in which after previous suppuration in the outer portion of the meatus, disease of the mastoid process, usuallj' without injury to the membrana tympani, but in company with violent cerebral symptoms, supervenes. The children have generally not suffered for any length of time from otorrhoea; they suddenly become very feverisli, vomit sometimes, wander, and often pass into a state of stupor so early as the second or third day; the ear becomes very painful, hot, red, and swollen, especially about the mastoid process; in slight cases suppuration takes place under the periosteum, in serious ones within the osseous cells. Should the course be favorable, the pus makes its way outwards ; if un- favorable, the morbid process spreads more deeply, and death ensues from thrombosis, abscess in the brain, or purulent meningitis. In the majority of cases, the disease is limited to the outer part of the meatus and to the mastoid process, and ends in recovery, even without the aid of fvn artificial exit for the pus; the tympanic membrane then generally315 TEEPIIINING THE PETEOTJS BONE. remains intact. The author has recently observed an example in a girl of 13, who had suftered from a discharge out of the right ear for 8 days. The outer i^ortion of the upper and posterior wall of the meatus was ulcerated, and the membrana tympani slightly clouded. Suddenly there appeared fever with delirium, then slight sopor, whilst the integument over the mastoid process became swollen, hot, and red. Pressure caused violent pain. Blood was repeatedly drawn by the artificial leech ; mercury and iodide of potassium were administered; the parts were kept perfectly clean. The cerebral symptoms disappeared in 6 days, the noises in the car and deafness in about 3 or 4 weeks; the hearing was not perfect, however, for some months ; the membrana tympani was uninjured. A similar example was seen in a man aged 60. He was said to have been for some days in a partially comatose state; otorrhoea on the left side was stated to have existed for 8 or 10 days. The ear and the parts about the mastoid process were of a dark-red colour, very hot, and extremely painful. The soft parts were incised, and the bone perforated ; a large quantity of pus and small osseous fragments were evacuated. He re- covered perfect consciousness in a few hours; the wound rapidly healed ; the membrana tympani was intact. It appears certain that in such cases the inflammation spreads from the external meatus to the mastoid process, and attacks the spongy tissue only at a later period: the importance of an earl3'' incision is obvious. Rarer, but far more serious, are the cases in whicli secondary disease of the petrous portion appears after extension of the morbid process to the middle ear and usually after destruction of the membrana tympani. The portion of bone over and to the outer side of the tympanum, close to the cranial cavity, is tolerably spongy even in adults, and forms the principal seat of disease. Separated both from the tympanic and cranial cavities by only thin plates of bone, and connected with both spaces by cellular tissue, this spot is above all others liable to become involved in disease of the middle ear, and to induce further extension of the morbid process to the intracranial organs. Abscess may form in the spongy tissue of the petrous bone with or without previous perforation downwards (into the tympanic cavity), and may end fatally with or without perforation into the cranial cavity. Suppurative inflammation on the one side of the bone possesses in the cellular tissue accompanying the vessels and nerves ways enough of passing to the other surface. Purulent periostitis of the orbit is sometimes fatal in two or three days from meningitis. Caries and pre- vious perforation appear, however, to be by no means rare in the car. In both the following cases perforation had taken place into the tympanic cavity, but not into the cranium ; in the first one, the meningitis was probably induced by the transmission of the inflammation along the auditory nerve. Purulent thrombosis probably depends on the passage of decomposing clots, meningitis on simple extension or on perforation, abscess of the brain often on perforation. "Where suppuration has taken place in the interior of the petrous bone, a free aperture outwards for the discharge of pus and fragments of bone will render recovery possible, and thus occasionally save life; tlie objections raised to trepanning cannot under such circumstances be considered of any account. The first con- dition for the operation must be the |)rescnce of symptom;? of suppuration816 REPOllT ON SURGERY. in the iutorior of the bone without tlie existence of any suflicient apei-ture for its discharge,—the great, very painful, dark-red swelling of the soft parts with expansion of the bone itself, and otorrliffia ; if the swelling is more prominent over the mastoid process, the cells of the latter will be chiefly afl'ectcd ; if it is principally seated over the depression which generally marks the attachment of the mastoid process, it is more espe- cially the spongy tissue of the petrous portion that is diseased. The condition of the external meatus and of the tympanic membrane may aid the diagnosis. Perforation of the antero-inferior part of the mastoid process opens its cells; to penetrate the petrous bone, we must pierce the upper attachment of the mastoid process at the point, which, as already mentioned, is usually depressed, to the depth of 6 or 9 lines. The author used for this purpose a brace with a sharp-angled bit of to 3 lines' diameter. The direction in which the instrument should pass is clear; the mastoid cells are opened by boring behind the ear from before a little backwards, the drill being placed just below the middle of the anterior surface of the process. The spongy tissue of the petrous bone is to the outer and upper side of the tympanic cavity, close to the end of the external meatus ; the perforator must therefore be placed on the root of the mastoid process, and introduced in the proper direction from 6 to 9 lines deep. Any neces- sary enlargement of the aperture at the bottom of the wound may be easily effected by a strong director, the bony septa being very friable. We shall add the author's second case as an example :—F. Braselmann, ffit. 36, a workman, was examined on the loth June, 1S63. Accoi'ding to his account, his illness had commenced in the previous December with violent pains in the teeth and face on the right side; the last upper molar, although healthy, was pulled out without relief; towards Christ- mas he suffered from pain and noises in the ear, then from a discharge and increasing deafness; five weeks ago the right side of the face became paralysed. Present state :—Pale, sallow appearance, great emaciation and weariness, mind slothful, entire loss of sleep for weeks; no fever, no diarrhoea, lungs healthy. Violent headache over the whole right side, especially along the posterior auricular nerve, increased by the least motion ; the head is constantly inclined half-way towards the right side. Complete paralysis of the right half of the face, all play of the features arrested, the sensi- bility distinctly diminished. The right eye cannot be closed, and is during rest much more widely opened than the other; the obliquity of the mouth is not very noticeable when the features are at rest. The inner part of the lower lid is at a considerable distance from the eye; free lachrymation, great conjunctival congestion, slight desquamation of the epithelium from the lower part of the cornea. The vision and mobility of the eye are normal; the uvula is straight. The ear on the affected side is swollen, red, and hot; there is an abundant, fetid discharge from it. The external meatus is swollen up ; the membrana tympaui cannot be seen. The mastoid process is very prominent; whilst on the left side there is a deep sulcus just above the process, on the rigiit side there is a prominence at least as broad as the finger; the soft parts are reddened, swollen, and painful on pressure; deep pressure on the bone causes m- tense pain. Total deafness; no subjective aural sensations.TREPHINING THE PETROUS BONE. 317 Perforation was performed two days later, because the strength was rapidly fiiiling, and the torpor increasing. The instrument was applied at the most painful and prominent part of the mastoid process, just be- yond the margin of the external meatus, and tiien introduced in the direction of the petrous bone. At a depth of six lines it entered an irregular cavity, lined with a soft velvety membrane, from which escaped thick cheesy flakes of pus and some necrotic fragments. By means of a strong blunt-pointed director, the cavity was dilated to the depth of 8 or 9 lines; the pus and debris were then well cleared out by repeated tepid injections. Immediate relief and sleep ; greater sensibility of the affected side of the face and less insufficiency of the orbicularis, with less lachrymation so soon as the next day. The patient rapidly improved during the following two weeks, though no further change in the facial and auditory nerves occurred. On the twelfth day destruction of the membrana tympani, caries of the floor of the tympanum and of the upper wall of the meatus were found. In August the patient could hear a watch at an inch distance. In the beginning of September some larger pieces of dead bone were removed ; the suppuration had almost ceased, the patient worked at his business, and was quite strong and free from pain. So far as cau be determined from the history and the course, the affection began as an inflammation of the middle ear with early implica- tion of the bone; perhaps, rare as this may be, as a primary disease of the bone. The patient repeatedly asserted that the local and ex- centrical ])aius, and the impairment of hearing had existed for a long time before the occurrence of otorrhoea; the facial and auditory nerv es became paralysed as the disease of the petrous bone progi-essed. Both paralyses are now somewhat less complete; that of the auditory is less so than that of the facial. It must remain doubtful in what mamier the 5th nerve (pain in some branches at the commencement, slight ansesthesia of the face) was implicated; tiie author is inclined, both from this symptom and from the mental condition of the patient before the operation, to the view that the intracranial organs were to some degree aftected. J. Erhard, vade mecum for clinical otiatry (Lissa, Giinther). H. Schwartze, practical contributions to aural surgery (Wiirzb., Stahel. ' Archiv fiir Ohi-euheilkuudc,' a journal edited by v. Troltsch, A. Politzcr, and H. Schwartze (Wiirzb., Stahel). E. Weber, brief com- munications on aural surgery, &c. (Berl., 1864). E. Virchow on malformations (' Axch.. fiir path. Anat.,' vol. xxx, p. 221). Z. Op])enheimer on the diagnosis of ear-diseases (1. c, p. 240). Drs. Ockel, Glama, and Wredeu, report of the cases at the Maximilian- heilanstalt for the years 1858-61 ('St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' v, 129, 257; vi, 257, .321). J. Boke, cases ('Wien. Med. Ilalle,' 1864, pp. 379' .390- I^Ji"- Erhard on examination of the ear with reference to soldiers and medico-legal questions ('Wien. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1863, PP- 730, 7'^i)- J- 33. Weber, cases ('Berl. Khu. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 164). S. Duplay, an examination of recent publications on the anatomy, physiology, and pathology of the ear ('Arch. Gren.,' 1863, ii, 327. 57'5). A. Lucae, anatomico-physiological contributions ('Arch.'RKrORT ON SURGERY. fur path. Aiiat.,' vol. xxix, p. 33). Dr. Brenner on the use of galvaniHrn (1. c, vol. xxviii, p. 197). INIr. Hinton, improvement in liearing voice, but not in hearing watch ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1863, ii, 644); cu«e ('Guy's Hosp. Reports,' x, 340); and on insufflation of alum in chronic catarrh of meatus, &e. (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 18(54,10- ^V". S. W. Eusehcnberger, descriptiou of a syringe for washing the auditory canal ('Amer. Jonru. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. xlviii, p. 86). M. Follin, case of trepanning the mastoid process ('Gaz. des IIop.,' 1864, p. 4). M. Triquet on bleeding from the ear (1. c, p. 26). Dr. Gruber on the diseases of the muscles (' Wicu. Med. Halle,' 1864, p. 36). J. Boke on cancer (1. c., 1863, pp. 428, 438). J. H. Hutchinson,"hysterical loss of speech and hearing successfully treated by the inlialatiou of ether ('Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' a'oI. xlvii, p. 412). JjJustacJdan tuhe.—Politzer's method of inflating the tympanum ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1864, i, 10). "W. Kramer on the introduction of fluids, &c.,'_into the tympanic cavity ('Deutsche KHn.,' 1864, p. 113), and on Politzer's method of inflating the tympanum (1. c, p. 325). A. Hermann, on a new mode of catheterising (' Wien. Med. Halle,' 1864, P- 339)- ^- M'Call Anderson, a short sketch of obstructions, &c. (' Glasgow Med. Journ.,' xii, i). Membrana tympani.—A. Politzer on the artificial membrane (' Wien. Med. Halle,' 1864, p. 5, &c.). Dr. Schreiber on perforations (1. c, j)p. 323, 342). E. Siegle, the pneumatic ear-funnel (an instrument that, by exhausting the air in the external meatus, draws the membrana tympaui outwards) (' Deutsche KUn.,' 1864, p. 363). J. Gruber on myi-ingodec- tomy ('Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,' 1863, p. 305, &c.). Dr. Dardel, anomalous condition of the internal ear in congenital deaf-mutism ('Schweiz. Zeitschr. fiir Heilk.,' iii, 155). MOUTH. W. Fergusson on threatened non-union after the operatmi for harelq) (' Lane.,' 1864, i, 721).—" When it has seemed needful or best to take away the mesial projection (in double fissure), the closure of the gaps has always been a very easy matter, but when this part has been pro- minent, there has often been cause for much anxiety as to the result. The tension of the lip over this part has threatened to be too much for the recent adhesions. In only one instance has there been total failui'c of union, and in that I afterwards repeated the operation with success. In several cases there has been serious threatening of non-union by the gap opening an hour or two, or a day or two, after the stitches have been removed. In such instances I have scraped the surface, introduced needles again, and put all up as at first, and thus made the process appear only as one. This method I have rarely seen fail. On one occasion a child was running about eight days after a very successful operation for a single fissure. It unfortunately fell on its face, and at once split the union open. Although eight miles oil", it was brouglit to me within a couple of hours, when I introduced fresh needles, and with the ordinary care the result was as perfect as could be desired." C. Heath on the causes and treatment of closure and immobility of the jaws ('Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Science,' vol. 35> P- 32j)-319 PEUFOUATIONS 01" THE HARD PALATE. A. Gyoiy, essay on permaucnt closure of the mouth (' Wieu. Med. Wocheuschr.,' 1863, 1). 711, &c.). M. Bauchet, cases of cancroid of the lower Hp,—resection of the jaw ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 527). Prof. Bardeleben, cases of can- croid of the lower lip, &c. ('Greifsw. Med. Beitr.,' ii, Eeporb, p. 4). Prof. Schuh, on epulis ('Spit. Zeit.,' 1863, p. 553). Dr. Burow, plastic operation for harelip where the skin is deficient ('Deutsche Khu.,' 1864, p. 217). M. Debout on horizontal fissures ('Bidl. Beige,' 1862, p. 347). Tongue. —Isl. Maisouneuve, almost total destruction by means of cauterization "en fleches" (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 549). A.Bryck, sublingual atheroma ('Wien. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, pp. 337, 357)' H. Premmert, cases of disease ('St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' vi, 357)' PHAETKX. C. H. Moore records some cases of accidental ivouncls of the pliarynx ('Lane.,' 1864, ii, 287).—In reference to the treatment, he considers, that " wholly, or in part, the patient should be nourished by enemata. None but the blandest food should be given by the mouth. The pain attending every act of deglutition may render this caution superfluous, but some patients may need to be advised to abstain from wliatever might irritate. Of every substance that enters the fauces a part must escape into the cellular textures or the neck, and these can only be in- jured by stimulating drinks and medicines—by brandy, or colocynth, or salt. Such matters, if required, should be administered by the rectum, whilst milk only, or such nutriments as jelly and arrowroot, which have the least solid residue when digested, should be swallowed. The quantity, also, of even these articles of food should be hmited, since it is clear that the extent of the infiltration will depend on this, as the severity of the injury will correspond with the nature of the misdirected aliment." J. Czermak, use of the laryngeal mirror in a case of foreign body ('Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, pp. 91, 112). PALATE. M. LangenhecTc on the causes of accidental perforations in the hard palate (' Arch. fi)r khn. Chip.,' v, 95).—Wounds of the hard palate by pointed weapons, tools, &c., introduced through the mouth are com- paratively rare, because the instrument gUdes backwards along the smooth surface, merely injuring the mucous membrane, tiU it arrives at, and perhaps perforates, the upper part of the velum. Any hemor- rhage so induced may be best arrested by pressure with the finger alone, or with charpie moistened by liquor fcrri ; in other respects, such injuries are of only subordinate interest. The mucous membrane is more or less extensively torn from its attachment to the bone, and its edges usually slough ; sutures are scarcely ever indicated. Largo flaps may be kept in contact by a sponge placed in the mouth till re- union has ensued. More common are gunshot injuries; in cases of suicide the palate is320 llEPORT ON SURGERY. often extensively dcHtroyed. In 2 cases, where the shot had been fired from a distance, Lanfrenbeck has seen loss of both the alveolar margin and a large piece of the corresponding palate. The aperture in the latter part should be closed by uranoplasty, and the teeth replaced by the dentist, lieccut gunshot injuries of the bony palate require great attention on the part of the surgeon, fragments of bone, still at- tached to the soft parts, should not be removed, but replaced, as soon as the bleeding has ceased, with the greatest care ; they may be re- tained in proper position by discs of sponge fastened to the teeth by thread, or pressed up by the lower jaw, or by a gutta-percha plate. It may not be practicable to keep the fragments permanently in position by such means, when the palate is extensively comminuted; recourse must then be had to siiture of the mucous edges. Owing to the danger of gangrene, Langenbeck thinks it advisable not to introduce the sutures for 36 or 48 hours, the infiltrated or gangrenous edges being first carefully excised. He recommends this method of treatment, because he obtained most excellent results in the year 1848, in exten- sive shot-wounds of the face, nose, and ear, by accurate union of the wound after 48 to 60 hours. In one respect the treatment should, however, differ—in the face, any necessary plastic operation should be performed at the same time, in the palate it should be deferred to some later period. Acute inflammation of the bone, osteoijeriostitis and osteomyelitis, in rare cases attacks the hard palate and the adjacent alveolar process, and may cause perforation owing to necrosis. Yet as the periosteum is usually not destroyed but only separated from the bone, and as the pus generally escapes into the nares, or at the margin of the alveolus, large pieces of the hard palate may be exfoliated without the produc- tion of any perforation. A young woman, 6 days after her confine- ment, suff"ered from violent tearing pain in the palate, and increased fever. The mucous membrane became red and swoUen; it was sepa- rated for some distance from the bone, and formed towards the middle a fluctuating swelling as large as a hazle nut. An incision was at once made, through which pus escaped, and the bone was felt to be bared. In the 3rd mouth a piece of bone, 4 lines in width, and including the whole thickness of the palate, came away. Perforation into the nare.s did not foUow; a depressed cicatrix formed under the apphcation of tincture of myrrh. More common are cases of chronic osteitis and necrosis of the hard palate. In phosphorous disease of tlio upper jaw, the necrotic process in- variably commences in the alveolar process, gradually spreading to the rest of the bone. After long-continued suppuration under the gum, the teeth become loose and fall out, the gum recedes, and the alveolar process is bared. The suppuration continuing, the mvolucrum palati gradually, though as the rule at a late period, recedes, so that tlie palatine processes become exposed. The retracted mvolucrum forms a firm swelling, here and there containing newly formed bone, and be- neath which the probe can be passed further. In the same way does tlie periosteum on the external surface of the jaw recede with the otucr coverings from the dead bone, so that as far as the malar bone on tiie9 SYPHILITIC DISEASE OP THE PALATE. Z%1 one hand, and ou the other to the middle of the palate, it can be seen and felt to be exposed. To remove the dead bone, a large part or even the Avliole jaw has been excised, any soft parts remaiiiing being re- moved at the same time, thus causing dreadful mutilation. It is clearly sufficient to extract the bone alone; for this purpose, Langen- beck in 2 cases separated the periosteum from the palate and. from the outer surface of the jaw, removed the dead bone, and united the edges of the separated periosteum by suture with perfect success. This operation should be performed as early as possible, i. e. as soon as the extent of the necrosis is decided; valuable time is lost, when,_as gene- rally happens, spontaneous separation of the necrosed piece is in vain awaited. Perforations of the palate are of comparatively frequent occurrence from syphilitic caries or necrosis. In rare cases tlie soft palate is at the same time more or less destroyed, its remains being united to the pos- terior wall of the pharynx. In an example recently observed by the author the velum in a man of 36 had been divided to within a line of its posterior end by syphilitic ulceration in such a way that the aper- ture, which was as broad as the finger, was not unlike a congenital fissure. There was also a perforation in the middle line through the palate-bones. The ulceration had extended from the velum to the peri- osteum and bone, inducing necrosis of the latter. This case is rare for another reason, because even extensive destructions of the velum usually cicatrize spontaneously, provided the perforation does not include its whole width or length. Perforations are more commonly found in the hard palate alone. The author has never seen syphilitic (so-called secondary) ulceration of the palatine mucous membrane penetrate to the bones and cause necrosis; syphilitic ulceration indeed appears to be unusual in the coverings of the hard palate. Perforations are generally the result of diseases which commence in the bones, and are therefore included in the class of tertiary aftections. Syphilitic osteo-periostitis and the gummy tumour of bone or of the periosteum occur in this region, but their course has not been so carefully observed as elsewhere. The gummy tumour of the periosteum appears on the surface of the skull as a small soft tumour, which is at first indolent, but after a time becomes very sensitive to the touch. It may run its course without the occurrence of the pains characteristic of tophi (gummy tumours of the bone) or of syphilitic osteitis. Thus there may be at the same time gummy tumours on the skull without pain, and enlargements of the tibia and clavicle which ache violently at night. As the disease ad- vances, the skin gradually reddens, becomes codematous and swollen; at length it gives Avay, allowing the discharge of a little pus and of a semi- transparent, jelly-like mass, and leaving a deep ulceration, at the bottom of which is the perfectly smooth dead bone. The ulcer gradually en- larges till all the infiltration has been thrown oft': the whole thickness of the bone generally dies, and the necrosed piece commonly takes six to eight months in exfoliating, after which the cerebral pulsations can be distinctly felt. The aperture may, however, after the lapse of a lono' period be closed by solid new bone proceeding from the endocranium, 21322 EEPORT ON SrilGERY. the external layer of the dura mater. The pericranium is destroyed over the whole extent of the necrosis; the endocranium throws out granulations which unite with the granulating edges of tlie pericranium to form a smooth cicatrix. The author observed tliis process recently in a case of hereditary syphilis ('Deutsche Kliuik,' 1862). The pecu- liarity of the periosteal gummy tumour seems to be, that, owing to the destruction of the periosteum, necrosis occurs without the production of thickenings of, or deposits ou, the surrounding bone. The same process occurs in the palate, but certainly has been rarely observed; the patient does not recognise the importance of the disease, and therefore does not apply for aid till the bone becomes exposed. The author has only once been able to watch the course of a gummy tumour on the hard palate; this was in a young man who at the same time suffered from painful swellings of the tibia3 and cranial bones. After the tumour had opened and an ulcer had formed through retrac- tion and destruction of the mucous membrane, the palate-process became exposed and in the course of six months exfoliated to a far greater extent than had been expected. As there was no thickening of the bone around the necrosis and no reproduction after the exfolia- tion of the sequestrum in all the cases observed by the author, he is inclined to believe that the most common syphilitic disease of the palate is the gummy tumour of the periosteum. In the cranial bones syphilitic caries and necrosis most frequently follow osseous enlargements owing to osteitis and osteomyelitis, or OAving to gummy tumours formed in the bone itself Syphilitic tophi, on whatever part of the skeleton they cccvu", are susceptible of entire resolution, occasionally leaving behind a cicatricial depression of the bone, and hyperostosis around. When a tophus opens outwards, a more or less deep crater-Hke ulcer is formed, at the bottom of which are rough porous, as it were weather-worn, sequestra, surrounded by much thickened and hardened bone. In 1862 Laugenbeck saw a caries of the bony palate, apparently a result of congenital syphilis, attended by rapid destruction of the bone, but without any trace of necrosis, take place in a girl of 8 years. Her father was said to have suffered from a fixed pain in his head. The giii was stated to have been liealthy and robust when born, to have suffered from some skin eruption Avheu four weeks old, and from in- flammation of the eyes in her fourtli year. In the autumn of 1861 there had been a fetid discharge from the nose ; in the winter of 1862 a perforation of the hard palate appeared, for which she was admitted into the clinic. The child was well nourished; the nasal bones were a little enlarged ; both the upper and lower incisors were considerably worn away. Somewhat behind and to the right side of the centre of the hard palate there was a small round ulcer, the middle of Mhich passed through the whole thickness of the bone. The probe struck upon friable bone; no sequestra could be foimd. The treatment employed— iodide of potassium, little inunctions, decoction of sarsaparilla, good diet—failed to arrest the disease ; the latter indeed spread so rapidly as to destroy the greater part of tlie hard palate. The author has seen two cases of constitutional syphilis, in which there was ichorous periostitis with extensive necrosis, but without any323 SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF THE HAUD PALATE. hyperostosis in the remaining bones. In both cases there had been ulcerations of the pharyngeal mucous membrane and syphilitic exan- themata, when suddenly with the symptoms of a very violent coryza, lachrymatioD, and a watery discharge from the nose, there appeared tearing pains in the palate" and middle piece of the alveolar process of the upper jaw, accompanied by tolerably severe fever. The discharge from the nose and from under the separating edges of the gum became sanious and extremely fetid, the incisors became loose, and ultimately, without any perforation of the involucrum palati, the whole of the alveolar process and palate that corresponds to the intermaxillary bones, together with a part of the vomer, exfoliated. The sequestrum showed no change in form or structure; nor could any enlargement of, or deposits on, the remaining bones be perceived. The bone was not regenerated by the separated periosteum. "VVe cannot determine with certainty how a perforation of some standing has been produced—whether from a gummy tumour of the periosteum or of the bone, from ichorous periostitis, or finally by ulceration spreading from the mucous membrane to the bone. Syphi- litic perforations of the palate appear generally to dilFer from those of the skull in this respect, that hyperostosis and formations of new bone are usually present in the latter, but absent in the former. Scrofulous disease, Avhich resembles the gummy process in many respects, may cause perforation of the palate. In the examples ob- served by Langenbeck the disease of the bone was secondary to that of the nasal mucous membrane or of the involucrum palati; he has never seen primary disease of the bone, i. e. unpreceded by some affection of one or other of the mucous surfaces. All the cases pre- sented the symptoms of the so-called lupus, and were accompanied by destructions of the skin on the face and of the membranous, cartila- ginous, and osseous portions of the nose. The dead pieces of the palate were exfoliated in the form of little, grayish-brown-black, worm-eaten, fragile sequestra. The process, by which the bone is softened and destroyed, seems to depend on a peculiar proliferation of the perios- teum, which degenerates into grayish-red, semitransparent, soft villi; this change seems to the author extremely similar to that found in chronic scrofulous osteomyelitis of the phalanges and metacarpus (the spina ventosa of some authors), with the difference that in the latter the connective tissue of the medulla is the part degenerated. In lupus of the nose the destructive process very often begins in the skin, and gradually spreads deeper, even to the bones. Tubercles are formed in the integument; they inflame and pass into pustules. The secretion of several confluent pustules dries into a blackish-brown or yellow scab, under which the destructive process penetrates to the deeper layers. If the scab is removed, the part under it is found to be of a reddish-gray colour, bleeding easily, villous, and so soft that the tissue can be brushed from the deeper layers without difficulty. The same kind of proliferation accompanied by softening and rapid disinte- gration seems to occur in the perichondrium and cartilages of the alte nasi and septum, as well as in the nasal bones. On removing the scabs from the diseased bone, we find the fragile, soft, carious surface coveredREPORT ON SUROERY, 824 ■with almost gelatinous grauulations, arranged like villi, and similar to those on the skin. Although tiie scrofulous or lupous caries of the hard palate generally commences in the uarcs, and therefore cannot be accurately examined, still in rare cases—the author has seen three examples—the morbid process first attacks the involucrura palati, the nares presenting no sign of disease. Dark-red tubercles, arranged in groups, are then formed, which, by disintegration, leave numerous ulcers with ragged undermined edges. No crusts are produced, but the fundus of each ulcer presents the same fragile granular mass that is seen in lupus of the external skin, and through this the probe passes to soft, carious bone. Perforations caused by syphilis or scrofulosis are, so far as the author has seen, generally placed in the middle line of the palate. Only once has he seen a circumscribed caries in the left palatine process ; it was in a scrofulous child, and the rest of the palate and nares presented no sign of disease. Thus, the carious process appears to i;sually commence at the sutures between the palatine processes, one with the other, and with the vomer: possibly the continuity of the nasal and palatine periosteum at these spots may furnish some explanation. The author quotes with reference to this particular a case in which the periosteum was stripped from the frontal bone in a rhinoplastic operation. The frontal suture, around which the bone was bared for about an inch and a half, was present; the sutures between the nasal processes of the frontal bone and the remains of the nasal bones were also exposed. It was found as the wound healed that the gi-anulating process was much more active at these spots, so that the sutures were marked by large granulations at a time when the rest of the osseous surface presented none. Whilst the whole os incisivum is occasionally exfoliated (Langeubeck 2 cases, Eicord i case), owing to syphilitic disease, scrofulous caries does not appear to cause such extensive destruction in this region, although it is very liable to attack the neighbourhood of the foramen incisivum. Dr. Semeleder on polypi of the uvula and soft palate ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 535). Prof. Bardelebeu, case of wound (' GreifsAv. Med. Beitr.,' ii, Eeport, p. i). S. Wells, easy method of passing sutures {'Med. Tim. and G-az.,' 1864, i, 10). Prof. Szymanowski on union of the soft palate Avith the posterior wall of the pharynx ('Prag. Viertelj.,' 1864, i, 59; ii, 142). M. Sedillot on method of uranoplasty in congenital fissure ot the hard palate and division of the alveolar arch with projection of the intermaxillary bone (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 531). B. Beck and M. Cochu on uranoplasty ('Arch, fiir kliu. Chir.,' iv, 418; 'Gaz. Hebd., 1864, p. 5). Prof. Engel on congenital fissure and union of the upper jaws'c Prag. A^'iertelj.,' 1864, ii, 116). G. Simon on uranoplasty, with special reference to the restoration of a pure (not nasal) voice (' Greifsw. Med. Beitr.,' ii, 129). B. Langeubeck, further experience in urano- plasty ('Arch, fiir kliu. Chir.,' v, i). , aCsophaffus.—E. Sourier, case of oasophagotomy (' Gaz. des Hop., 1864, p. 66). II. Salter on tracheal dysphagia ('Lane.,' 1864, n, 5, 88).825 IlEJrO^'AL OF A PAROTID TUMOUR. Tonsil.—Dr. Euppreclifc, a new tonaillatome ('Wien. Med. "Wo- clieuschr.,' 1864, p. 327). M. Mackenzie on the treatment of enlarged tonsils without cutting (' Med. Mirror,' i, 46^5, 522). KAEES. A. Clark on naso-palatine gland disease ('Lond. Hoap. Eep.,' i, 211). Prof. Bardeleben, case of huge carcinoma of the nose (' Greifsw. Med. Beitr.,' ii, report, p. 7). Dr. Matejovsk}^, case of stenochoria (' Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 151). S. D. Gross on the extraction of foreign bodies irom the ear and nose (' Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. xlviii, p 394). Naso-pharyngeal polypi.—M. Maisonneuve, case (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 521). M. Michaux ('Bull. Beige,' 1862, p. 679). Rhinoscopy.—Dr: Gibb, case of ulceration of the mucous membrane over the turbinated bones, &c. (' Trans, of the Pathol. Soc.,' xiv, 22, 47). G. Johnson, case of cyst obstructing the posterior opening of the right nasal fossa (' Med. Circ.,' 1864, vol. xxiv, p. 1). Nech.—N. W. King, syphilitic caries of the hyoid bone (' Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. 47, p. 428). O. Kappeler, excision of half an inch of the pneumogastric in removal of a large tumour; recovery (' Arch, der Heilk.,' 1864, p. 271). J. Spence, case of enormous, deep-seated tumour, successfully removed ('Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' vol. 36, p. 272). Dr. Heusinger, congenital fistula of the neck ('Arch, fiir path. Anat.,' vol. 29, p. 358). Thyroid gland.—G. Bernoulli on goitre (' Schweiz. Zeitschr. fiir Heilk.,' iii, 120). C. Hueter, the position of the isthmus in children (' Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' v, 319). PAEOTID. A. Verneuil, removal of a parotid tumour (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 772). —A man, £et. 41, was admitted into the Hotel-Dieu in i860 with a fibro-glandular tumour as large as a hen's egg; it evidently included the greater part of the parotid, and adhered firmly to the skin and deeper parts. Owing to the impossibility of enucleation, the knife had to be used ; there was considerable haemorrhage, though no large vessel was wounded; the carotids were exposed for the distance of three centimetres. After the operation there was for a short time a little ptosis of the right half of the lip, and eight days later an attack of erysipelas; in a month cicatrization was complete, with the exception of a little salivary fistula. lu 1861 M. Verneuil again saw his patient; the cicatrix was red and slightly raised. Two years later, in last July, an operation was again required. The whole right half of the neck was occupied by a very vascular tumour, extending from the ear nearly to the clavicle, and from the ascending ramus of the jaw to near the spinous processes. The tumour was immovable. The absence of any diHplacement of the tonsil and pharynx appeared to show that there was no deep pro- longation. Deglutition, voice, respiration, and hearing, were normal;826 KEPOUT ON SUHGKRY. the jaw was depressed with difTiculty, and, as the sterno-mastoid was involved in the growtli, the neck was sliglitly inclined towards the shoulder, and was almost motionless. For more than 15 days he had had no rest, owing to violent neuralgia, probably caused by tlie dis- tension or compression of bi-anchca of tlie cervical plexus. He was ex. hausted and anasmic ; owing to the pain, he urgently pressed for the operation. "With the view of diminishing the danger, M. Verneuil decided to ligature the external carotid some distance from its origin; on looking for it at the bottom of his first incision, it was evidently not in its usual place. He thei-efore enlarged the incision downwards, so as to expose the common carotid opposite the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. Even at this point the vessel was almost 4 centimetres deep, owing to the thickened and rigid sterno-mastoid; the latter was divided so as to allow free access to the sheath. The free bleeding that had already taken place sufficiently proved the necessity of this preliminary step. During the rest of the operation the oozing was so slight that the trunk and the larger branches of the facial nerve were easily re- cognised, and safely dissected out. The only bleeding Avas indeed venous and readily stopped; the patient lost scarcely 7 ounces of blood. The operator first divided a vein, the external jugular or one of its branches, whilst separating the supra-clavicular prolongation of the tumour; a whistling sound indicated the passage of air into the vein; the latter was instantly compressed, then tied ; no change occurred in the pulse or breathing. The tumour was divided to facilitate its detach- ment from the pharynx and the sheath of the vessels. The external carotid was included in the morbid growth; the surgeon excised a portion of it at least two centimetres long, and tied the two ends, from which passed a very feeble jet of blood. He also excised between two ligatures the common trunk of the facial and temporal veins, and finally enucleated the supra-clavicular ganglion. The wound was enormous; nil the muscles of the side of the neck were bared. - The progress was afterwards most satisfactory; only some local symptoms, partial paralysis of the face, angina, laryngitis, occurred. On the 5th day the edges of the wound showed a trace of inflammation in only one point, and that was supplied principally b}' branches of the subclavian ; the suppuration was healthy, though very scanty. In 15 days he began to get up. When he left the hospital, the wound was not completely cicatrized; the neck moved with difficulty, but the hoarseness of voice and the facial paralysis were rapidly diminishing. The tumour was again fibro-glaudular; in many parts, however, the culs-de-sac were destroyed, and nucleated epithelium was infiltrated in the fibrous stroma. On tumours of the parotid (' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' vol. 120, p. 338). LABTNX AND TRACHEA. John Windsor, case of epiglottitis ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' J864, i, 120). —The patient, a male, a?t. 35, was first seen on Aug. 21, 1863 ; he had been ill for a days, and complained t)f almost total inability to swallow,CASE or EPIGLOTTITIS. 8S7 The voice was almost inaudible. He had very little cough, and the febrile reaction was slight. The fauces appeared almost normal: but, on examination with the finger, the epiglottis could be felt as a hard solid ball, filling up the lower end of the pharynx. The treatment con- sisted of calomel to slight salivation, and repeated puncturing of the swelling. On Sept i8th he was quite well. The author has, after careful search, been able to meet with only the following cases :—a by Burne in the ' Med. Gaz.' for May, 1830 ; 2 by Kesteven! in the same journal for 1849; 3 by Sir H. Marsh in the 'Dubl. Med. Journ.,' vol. xiii; i by Mainwaring in 'Med. Facts and Observ.' for 1791 ; 3 in the 3rd vol. of ' Trans, of a Soc. for the Im- provement of Medical Science' (1808) ; 3 by Prof. Larsen in' Schmidt's Jahrb.' for 18^2 ; there is also a short notice in Wunderlich's ' Handb. d. Path. u. Ther.' Only i of these cases died, though most of them appeared to be in great danger. Dr. Gibb, Prof Jaksch, and E. Wagner, foreign bodies ('Trans. Path. Soc.,' xiv, 41; ' Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 119; 'Arch, der Heilk.,' 1864, p. 347). M. Delore, and L. Tiirck, cases of internal division of stricture'('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, p. 186; 'Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,' 1863, p. 345). M. Moura-Bourouillou on polypi of the larynx—simple serre-nseud ('Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 451). J. Czermak on local treatment of laryngeal disease ('Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 17). Dr. J. Kiihn, the artificial opening of the air-passages (pp. 379, Leipz., C. E. Winter). A. North on tracheotomy, with 43 cases ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1863, ii, 239, &c.). Prof. Euhle, case of tracheotomy in aneurism of the aorta, &c. ('Greifsw. Med. Beitr.,' i, Keport, p. t6). Prof. Balassa on tracheotomy in angina diphtheritica (' Wien. Med. AVo- chenschr.,' 1864, pp. 273, 289). A. Liicke on anomalies of the arteria innominata with reference to tracheotomy (' Arch, fur Idin. Chir.,' iv, 589). H. Smith and G. Buchanan on tracheotomy in diphtheria ('Sled. Mirror,' i, 65, 129 ; 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, ii, 323 ; ' Glasg. Med. Journ.,' xi, 420). Dr. Konig and P. Matiejovsky on tracheotomy in croup ('Arch, der Heilk.,' 1864, p. 265 ; 'Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 253). J. Kovacs on laryngo-tracheotomy in croup ('Berl. Klin. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 337). M. Bourdon on tracheotomy in strictures of the trachea (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, p. 75). H. Eohlfs, fl'acheo-perforation, a new operation (' Deutsche Klin,,' 1864, p. 331)."' MAMMA. M. Jobert on galactocele (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 525). M. Broca on compression in adenoma, &c. (Schmidt's ' Jahrb.,' vol. 120, p. 213). A. v. Franque, mastodyuia associated with carcinoma of the liver and stomach ('AVien. Med. Halle,' 1864, p. 265). T. Bryaut, clinical report on inflammation and tumom's (' Guy's llosp. Eeports,'x, 85). Chest.—Dr. Konig on wounds of the lung ('Arch, der Heilk.,' "18(54, * G. IT. Porter on excising n portion of the windpipe in tradieotomy (' Dubl. Quart. Journ./ vol. 37, p. 6). .1. Spencc on tracheotomy in diphtheritic croup (• Edinb, Med. Journ.,' ix, 777).llEPORT ON SUnr.ERY. 32S p. 147, &c.). E. M'Doimell, laceration of the lungs without fracture of the ribs ('Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' vol. xxxviii, p, 205). F. 11. llamil- ton on gunshot injuries ('Amer. Med. Tira.,'i 864, i, 109, &c.). D. Giraud, case of sudden death after thoracentesis ('Spit. Zeit.,' 1864, p. 322). W. Eoser on the treatment of fistula after empyema (' Arch, der Heilk.,' 1864, p. 84). ABDOMEN. M. Boinet on the treatment of hydatid cysts of the liver (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, pp. 84, 97).—After refcrriug to incision of the cyst and Ee- camicr'a method, the author discusses the value of puncture with a very fine trocar. Although a case thus treated by M. Moissenet soon ter- minated fatally, the author does not consider this little operation dangerous per se, "for out of 48 capillary punctures in 14 cases of cyst of the liver, none was followed immediately by any accident." On the other hand, it by no means always succeeds, and in many cases it excites suppuration. The first case successfully treated by this means was published by Martinet in 1825 ; a patient of Lenoir's recovered after 10 punctures; one of Eobert's after a single exploratory punc- ture ; MM. Legroux, Laugier, Velpeau, Vigla, Demarquay, have each had a successful case. The examples in which it fails are still more numerous; such have been observed by MM. Aran, Demarquay, Mal- gaigne, &c. The author has seen several cases, where, after the evacuation of acephalocysts, the fluid, clear and limpid as spring water, was reproduced, even after repeated jiunctures. He is in- clined to believe that the puncture may answer when the cyst is single ; but that when it contains numerous hydatid vesicles, the latter continue to live, the liquid reforms, and a cure does not ensue. Hence if after several capillary punctures the cyst refills, we may diagnose the existence of a number of hydatids; if the liquid and hydatids become purulent, the latter must be promptly removed, or the patient will perish. The indication is to form a large aperture, which will allow the immediate evacuation of the whole contents of the cyst. The following case will show the method followed by Dr. Boinet. In a girl, about eight and a half years old, there were the characteristic symptoms of a large cyst of the liver. Dr. Boinet recommended a trial of capillary punctures which sometimes cause a radical cure, the punc- tures to be repeated so long as the fluid should continue limpid; to have recourse to puncture followed by an iodine injection, if the fluid should become clouded, yellowish, or purulent, after the first, second, third, &c., puncture; finally, if such fluid was rapidly re-formed after the iodine injection, to open the cyst freely, and to continue the iodine injections. The sac was first punctured on the 9th August; there escaped about 1400 grammes of limpid fluid, which did not coagulate when heated. Three days afterwards the little patient appeared per- fectly well, but ten or twelve days later the tumour was evidently re- forming and suppurating; the appetite was lost, in the evening slie was feverish, there were night-sweats, emaciation, &c. Dr. Boinet accord- ingly on the 25th August made a puncture with a trocar larger than an exploratory but less than a hydrocele trocar, and then injected a solution329 TEEATMENT OF HYDATID CYSTS. of equal parts of tincture of iodiue and of water; about 1200 grammes of a greenish purulent matter escaped; the injection gave no pain, and after seven or eight minutes was again entirely evacuated. Vor a little time the patient appeared much better, but again the same symptoms showed the formation of a purulent cyst. Caustics were now applied as in the method of Eecamier, but owing to the resistance of the child, were ineffective. The symptoms were rapidly becoming threatening; it appeared quite necessary to freely open the cyst. On the 7th Oct. a large trocar, such as is used for ovarian tumours, was introduced through the part where caustics had been applied; a quantity of greenish, stinking pus (1250 grammes), mixed with numerous remnants of hydatids, escaped. A large gum-elastic catheter was slipped through the canula, and the latter was then removed ; injections of tepid water, to cleanse the cyst and force out all hydatid remains, were many times repeated ; the operation was concluded by injecting a solution composed of equal parts of tincture of iodine and water. The iodiue injections were repeated morning and evening ; imder their influence the pus soon lost its unpleasant odour. The general condition improved, the fever and the night-sweats disappeared, sleep and a better appetite returned. A cure would have ensued, if the hydatids could have escaped by the catheter ; the latter was still retained not only with a view of facilitating the discharge of pus and of allowing injections, but also with that of causing adhesions between the cyst and abdominal wall. On the i4tli October the catheter was replaced by one still larger, and again two days later by another lai'ger still. Dr. Boinet being then quite certain that there were fii-m adhesions around the seat of puncture, washed the cyst out, withdrew the catheter, and introduced in its place a large ciu'ved trocar with the sharp point drawn back within the canula. Having passed it up towards the ensiform cartilage, he raised the abdominal wall with the end of the canula, so as to be able to feel it with the fingers of the left hand; this point being determined, he pressed the stilette forwards, forcing it through the abdominal wall. This fresh aperture was five centimetres above the former one, towards the spot where the cyst had probably originated. An elastic catheter pierced with lateral holes was now passed through the canula, and the latter was withdrawn. The catheter would thus act as a hollow seton, allowing the cyst to be washed out and injected, and also permitting a continued discharge of the contents ; the author's principal object was, however, to cause adhesions, not only around the fresh aperture but also along the space between the two punctures, so as to fix the cyst firmly to the abdominal parietes and allow him to incise it sufficiently freely for the exit of hydatids, without danger of effusion into the peritonei cavity. On the ist November he carried an incision about three centimetres long from the upper towards the lower aperture; a mass of hydatids escaped. The drainage-tube and injections were con- tinued; no reaction followed. The cyst rapidly contracted, hardly admitting 80 to 100 grammes of fluid eight days later. Soon there was only a fistulous canal, yet fearing that the cyst might not be entirely obliterated, the author replaced the drainage-tube on the 20th of Nov by a seton formed of some waxed threads. On the ist December these830 EEPOET ON SUIIGERY. were definitely removed; by the 8th tlie lower aud by the 15th the upper aperture had closed, llemarkable improvement in the "general health followed the incision made on the ist November. There is now, 4th Pebruary, no pain in the epigastrium ; the latter is normally depressed; the percussion sound is clear, aud the patient is in perfect health. The catheter, which is to be introduced through the large trocar, should exactly fill it; the author tliinks that this ti-eatment exposes the patient to less danger of effusion into the peritoneal cavity than even a capillary puncture; for the catlieter completely fills the aperture made by the trocar in the cyst, and through it the fluid constantly runs off as soon as secreted. Tor the same reasons the drainage-tube introduced after the formation of a second aperture should exactly fill the curved canula. After from 7 to 10 days, by which time adhesions will have formed, the catheter may be advantageously replaced by one still larger. "We may sum up the treatment proposed by Dr. Boinet as'follows:—If the cyst suppurates, a large ti'ocar is introduced, and through it a catheter; after 7—10 days the latter is replaced by one still larger. A few days later, a puncture is made from within outwards near the edge of the right ribs, five or six centimetres above the first aperture, and a drainage-tube is passed in at one, and out at the other opening. After a sufficient lapse of time an incision, 2 to 3 centimetres long, is carried from the upper towards the lower aperture. The rest of the treatment consists of daily iodine injections. The tube must be retained till the cyst is completely obliterated. In the discussion that followed ('Gaz. d. Hop.,' 1864, p. 82, 107; ' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, p. 278), M. A^'oillemier defended the method of Eecamier and severely criticised that of M. Boinet; he asserted that the experiments of Cruveilhier had decisively shown that caustics excite adhesive inflammation of the peritoneum, a result confirmed also by clinical experience. J. Hutchinson, surgical treatment of hydatid tumoui'S of the abdo- men ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, i, 197). Mr. Wood, deficiency of anterior wall (extroversio vesicse), operation, ('Med. Circ.,' vol. xxiv, p. 228). T. Holmes, post-mortem examination of a case of extroversio vesica; after operation, &c. (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1864, ii, 21). Mr. Couper, wound of intestine ('Trans, of the Pathol. Soc.,' vol. xiv, p. 160). On the treatment of penetrating wounds with escape of omentum (' Gaz. des H6p.,' 1863, p. 54,^). Dr. Peliziius, case of recoveiy after a wound of the small intestine (' Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' vi, 207). P. Wysler, new suture for intestinal wounds (1. c, p. 210). C. B. Henrici, wounds of the stomach ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 2815, Ac). P. H. Hamilton on gunshot injuries of the abdomen (' Amer. Med. Times,' 1864, i, 217). D. C. Peters, gunshot wound of intestines and bladder, recovery (1. c, p. 3). C. S. Wood, three cases of recovery from gunshot wounds of the intestines (1. c, p. 172)." ^^ IT. Moore on perforations of the small intestines (' Lane.,' 1864, ii, 373)- E. Navratil on fa;cal fistula ('Wieu. Med. Halle,' 1864, p. 302, &c.). B. Stilling, extirpation of a tumour of the mesentery, recovery ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 301).331 RADICAL CURE Of HERNIA. INTESTINAL OBSTBITCTION'. JD. Greig on insufflation as a remedy in intmsitsception (' Edinb. Med. Journ.,' X, 306). The author records four examples of the successful use of'this means in children. D. Greig says:—"To my mind the symptoms of an intussusception are unmistakable, and may shortly be said to be, the sudden seizure, the obstinate vomiting, the obstinate constipation, the paroxysms of pain, the hard tumour in the abdomen, and chiefy the passage of blood per anum ; all these various symptoms may show themselves in other diseases, but when combined together, and especially when the last-mentioned symptom, the passing of blood per anum is present, I think no one can have any difficulty in forming a correct diagnosis, and must feel convinced that an intussusception is present, without the necessity of a post-mortem examination." "As to treatment, purgatives in the first place naturally suggest themselves; but these are worse than useless, rarely remaining on the^ stomach, and if they do remain only stimulating the bowel and aggravating the disease. AYarm-water euemata are useful, but can seldom be administered owing to the very peculiar irritable spasmodic condition in which the rectum usually is. In any case where this spasmodic condition is not present, or only to a slight degree, I have no doubt warm-water enemata, or, as I used in Case 3, warm water and air thrown in by a syringe would be useful. The ease, however, with which air is thrown into the spasmodically contracted rectum, when it is impossible even to introduce a teaspoonfiil of warm water, gives this agent a pre-eminence over all others, and astonishes all who have seen it used. The remedy is always at hand, even in the poorest cottage, no matter how far away from town. Its application is so simple as to require no direction for its use. The only necessity being that enough air be thrown into the bowel to distend it as far up as the neck of the invaginated portion, or, in other words, that the operation be continued imtil the child begins to be uneasy, and the belly distinctly tympanitic." W. H. Morgan, case of ileus treated successfully by insufflation ('Madras Quart. Journ. of Med. Science'). Dr. Hermann, invagina- tion of the ileum (' St. Petersb. Med. Zeitschr.,' vi, 36). S. Wells, intussusception replaced by gastrotomy, death (' Trans. Path. Soc.,' xiv, 170). M. Fourrier, artificial anus (' Graz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 599). Mr. Hamilton, abdominal incision, death ('Med. Tim. and Graz.,' 1864, i, 88). Prof Laycoclc, paracentesis caaci, death (1. c, p. 421). Dr. Bierbaum ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 42, &c.). J. C. Lehmann, case, &c. ('Schmidt's Jahrb.,'vol. 120, pp. 2>33, 3:^1)- P.Mosler ('Arch, der Ileilk.,' 1864, p. III). J. Adams on a case treated by Amussat'a operation ('Med. Tim. and Graz.,' 1864, i, 614). M. Miiller, case of enterotomy ('Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' vi, 222). Gr. H. Philipson on in- tussusceptiou ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, ii, 357). HERNIA. Q, II. Porter on the radical cure of rednciUe hernia (' Dubl. Quart.332 llEPOUT ON SURGERY. Journ. of Med. Science,'vol. xxxvi, p. 26-;).—"On tlie 2;st May, i8<)3, a man nged ,3 years, a carpenter by trade, was admitted under niy care into the Mcatb ]Ios[)ital, with a reducible oblique inguinal hernia on the right side, of which he had become the subject, 3 mouths previously, whilst lifting a weighty piece of timber. The tumour was not large, nor had it passed beyond the external ring. He suftered pain in cougli- ing, sneezing, or when lie made any imusual exertion at his trade. He Avas at first quite ignorant of the nature of his malady ; but, when in- formed that it was a rupture, he begged that anything might be done which would secure him from the annoyance of wearing a truss, of the discomfort of wliich he had often heard people speak. Considering his age, good state of health, the small size of the tumour, and the length of time he was suffering from the disease, I regarded it as a favorable case, of which a radical cure might be attempted. Before describing the operation, I cannot do better, perhaps, than quote from ^Mr. Syme's work respecting the instruments and appliances required. He says:—' Instead of a complicated machine for distending the inva- ginated integument, I employed a piece of bougie, or gutta percha, to one end of which was attached a strong double thread. The plug, thus prepared and smeared with cantharides ointment, was drawn into its place by the threads, which by means of a curved needle, guided on the fingers fairly within the ring, were passed, at the distance of rather more than an inch from each other, through all the textures to the surface, where they were tied firmly together on a piece of bougie, to prevent undue pressure on the skin.' The bougie with the cord attached, I may remark, is prepared by drilling a small hole in its top, and drawing the double thread through, when it can be made fast, with- out fear of giving way, by tying to it a little piece of paper or linen, which is drawn with the knot tightly into the hollow bougie. The strings should be made of stout hemp or silk, and about twelve inches in length. I used, on the occasion, a long needle, with a flat sharp point, slightly curved, like those employed in making post-mortem ex- aminations ; though I recommend ' Liston's needle,' fixed in a handle, as much more manageable. " Operation, May 27th.—The patient, having had his bowels well freed by castor oil, taken the night previously, and his bladder emptied a few minutes before, was placed in the recumbent position on a table, witli his legs hanging over, his feet supported, his shoulders slightly raised, and the right thigh flexed a little. Standing between his legs, I pushed up, with the forefinger of my left hand, a large plug of scrotal integu- ment into the external abdominal ring; and, feeling fairly within its sides, I took the needle with one of the threads attached, and, guiding it along the finger so placed, I transfixed the external pillar and abdominal parietes. Then, taking the thread from the needle, an assistant threaded it with the second cord, when I passed it through the internal pillar, and made its point appear about an inch and one eighth internal to the first aperture. Having then withdrawn the finger, I pulled the portion of bougie, well smeared with cantharides ointment, by means of the two strings, into the situation previously occupied by my finger, invaginat- ing the structures as it assumed its place; and, lastly, 1 tied tightly333 EADICAL CURE OF HEllNIA. the two threads across the second piece of bougie, to prevent any injury to the skin by pressure. The patient suffered scarcely any pain, wincing merely a little at each puncture of the needle. He was placed in bed after the operation, with the right thigh elevated slightly on a pillow, a small pledget of wet lint laid over the site of the ring, and a full opiate administered. " May 28th.—Had slept well; in no pain; a faint redness visible about the needle-punctures. May 29th.—Eested easily ; free from pain; and no tenderness whatever on pressure in the abdomen. He says that when he coughs he feels, to use his own phrase, ' quite tight below.' It would be tedious to give the details of this case from day to day. It wiM suffice to say that he went on as favorably as I could wish in every respect, and never had a bad symptom. I removed the bougie on the 7th June, and found that the punctures were slightly ulcerated near the threads, with a blush of redness about them. The site of the external abdominal ring presented a round swelling, the size of a large nut, and was very hard to the touch. This appeared to be formed by the invaginated structures and lymph, thrown out around the parts. The man coughed forcibly without in the least displacing the plug of skin, which was now firmly lodged in its new position— while there was some discharge from the excoriated surface inside the inverted integument. I then laid a compress of lint over the part, and applied a spica bandage. He was thus kept confined to bed until the 20th June, when I allowed him to walk about the ward with the bandage on. June 22nd I tested the result of the operation by making liim cough violently, and jump from a chair to the ground several times; but notwithstanding this exertion not the least protrusion occurred, and the ring appeared permanently sealed up. I put a truss on him with a very light spring, and permitted him to leave the hospital on the 25th June, desiring him to wear it during the day, to avoid any great straining or exertion as much as possible, and to let me see him occasionally. I saw him very recently ; and the disease is, to all appearance, cured. He is able to follow his trade with comfort, and the part feels as strong and unresisting as any other portion of the walls of the abdomen. " I have performed Wutzer's operation for the cure of hernia three times, and have seen Wood's procedure done twice, and, as far as my opinion goes, must give the preference to this of Mr. Syme. I cannot conclude better than by repeating the three advantages it possesses, as stated by that able surgeon:—' ist. That it may be executed by means which are in the possession of every surgeon, instead of the complicated, expensive, and not easily manageable apparatus, hitherto deemed indis- pensable. 2nd. That it may be accomplished with much more certainty through the secure guidance of a finger, than to trusting to a piece of wood, for gaining admission within the tendinous ring. 3rd. That the two threads, co-operating in their effect, render the chance of adhesion between the textures much greater than when it is attempted by the mere puncture of a needle.' " 31. Nilulon on the reduction of voluminous hernias hi/ elastic pressure ('Med. Circ.,' vol. xxv, p. 123).—A man was admitted intoHEPOIIT ON SURGBIIY. 334 hospital for alleged hydrocele. The Hcrotum was the seat of a chronic enlargement of sucli considerable inaguitude, that a superficial depres- sion alone indicated the situation of the meatus. Sexual intercourse was utterly impracticable, and the patient complained of great inconve- nience in walking; in addition, the contact of the urine with the skiu gave rise to painful excoriation, colic was present, and the infirmity was altogether of a most distressing character. The patient had been informed that he was affected with hydrocele; but this was a mistake. Both testicles were easily felt perfectly dis- tinct from the mass—a circumstance incompatible with the existence of dropsy of the tunica vaginalis ; on percussion, a degree of resonance was, moreover, perceptible. This tympanitic sound demonstrated the true nature of the disease, which consisted in enormous inguinal hernia, ■with a voluminous pedicle, presenting all the characteristics of entero- epiplocele. There was in the last century an active controversy, which ended in such tumours being pronounced irreducible. Surgeons dreaded the restora- tion into the abdomen of organs which had long been displaced, and had lost what Jean Louis Petit called their droit de domicile^' within that cavity. M. Nelaton acknowledges that he once entertained a similar ■view, but on further reflection he has since altered his opinion, and now professes that the reduction of these herniie may legitimately be at- tempted, and that it is possible to effect this desirable result without injury to the patient. This, however, cannot be accomplished at once; and the perils adverted to by Jean Louis Petit doubtless arose from the fact that the tumours were reduced in too precipitate a manner. Bavaton adopted a safer practice, and endeavoured to attain the same object more slowly ; thus several of his patients remained for six weeks in bed with much ultimate benefit. M. Nelaton remarked, that, in a case of fracture of the femur in a man who for months had had a large unreduced hernia, M. Sanson took advantage of the compulsory rest, and gradually returned the intestine into the abdomen; no untoward accidents followed. M. Nelaton has since very frequently resorted, with advantage, to the same method. Tlie time necessary to attain the desired result may be shortened, if to the indispensable position be added pressure with M. Maisonneuve's elastic bands. These measures were adopted in the case here alluded to, and the hernia is now entirely I'educed. A well-made truss has been applied, and no functional disturbance has supervened to justify the apprehensions formerly suggested. M. Guyton on the mecliaiiism of strangulation, and the me of chloro- form during taxis ('Graz. Hebd.,' 1864, pp. 51, 68, 100, 132).—The author thinks sufficient attention has not been paid to the bowel in strangulated hernia, wliilst too much influence has been generally assigned to the constricting agent, the rings and the neck of the sac. He does not believe that the mechanism of strangulation can be ex- plained by pathological anatomy; he considers it a question for experi- mental physiology. He describes his theory at great length—shows its agreement with the phenomena; discusses the symptoms, course, and post-mortem appearances ; and, besides many interesting remarks, en-835 MECHANISM OF STEANGULATIOX. deavonrs to define more exactly wliat may with propriety be termed strangulated hernia. As some confirmation of his theory, he adduces the elFect of chloroform so surprising in certain cases—sometimes, for example, a rupture which has obstinately resisted the surgeon's efforts, yields without difficulty after the patient has become unconscious. The author especially urges the important influence exerted by the pressure of the abdominal walls, and asserts that the latter, soft and yielding in health, become from the very commencement of strangula- tion hard, rigid, and contracted; he has noticed this occurrence before, during, and after reduction in every case. We may exemplify the author's theory in the following manner:—A hernia usually retained by a truss descends, owing to some violent exertion, and becomes strangulated. The sudden pressure of the abdominal parietes has forced the bowel through a narrow aperture into a space surrounded by walls that present comparatively little resistance; here, therefore, the bowel expands; but, as a reflex effect, the abdominal parietes continue to press, and therefore force flatus into the prolapsed bowel. The latter, irritated by its displacement and dilatation, causes pain; the walls of the abdomen become more and more tense; the pressure at the neck of the sac increases ; the circulation is impeded; strangulation is produced. Should this state remain, inflammation and its consequences gradually supervene. Pain, muscular contraction, irreductibleness, are three constant symptoms from the beginning of strangulation. Two stages may accordingly be distinguished in the history of strangulation —the first characterised by tenseness of the abdomen and of the hernia, the second by symptoms of inflammation. During the first few hours after strangulation, reduction may often be eflected. The result depends on the energy with which the abdo- minal muscles contract, the distension of the bowel, and the size of the aperture—the pressure of the siu-geon's hand overcoming that of the abdominal parietes. The use of chloroform is obvious. As a further proof of this theory, the author quotes O'Beirne's experiments with a loop of bowel passed through a hole in a piece of cardboard. The hernise that are most liable to strangulation are notoriously those that escape after a truss has been worn, whilst those that are perma- nently unsupported rarely suffer in this way. The explanation ia simple. In the former all the conditions are ready—abdominal pres- sure, narrow ring, distensible sac; but in the latter both the ring and sac are large, allowing great distension of the bowel without any special pressure at the neck. Malgaigne has asserted, and the author admits the fact, that the bowel is never strangulated immediately after the formation of a hernia, except when it passes into the tunica vaginalis. Dr. Guyton rejects the supposed strangulation of large hernite and of epiploceles. As he justly remarks, practitioners do not generally diagnose with sufficient care the nature and condition of hernial tumours. " Thus operations for hernia; that are not strangulated, for epiploceles that are only inflamed, worse still for masses of fat unconnected with the peritoneal cavity, are not very rare." " On the 2(5th August, 1848, at 11 p.m., a woman with a left femoral336 REPOIIT ON SUUGERY. hernia of 24 j^ears' ataudiiig was admitted into the Hotel Dieu under Prof. Eoux. The same morning slie had been attaclied with nausea and repeated vomiting. fcJhe sent for licr medical man in the afternoon. His attention was at once directed to the tumour, of Avhich a part was usually down. He considered it the cause of the symptoms, and en- deavoured to reduce it by the usual means, baths, prolonged taxis, without success. In the evening he again, but unsuccessfully, at- tempted reduction. The nausea and vomiting continued; there was no motion. He sent the patient to the hospital where I was on duty that day. I commenced the examination by feeling the walls of the abdomen; they were not hard or contracted, but depressible and pain- less. The rupture, placed at the inner and upper part of the thigh, measured, in length 3, across 2 inches; the skin over it was red, and somewhat hot; the attempts at reduction had rendered it sensitive. I touched and percussed it; I found everywhere complete dulness, equal and firm resistance. I attempted to replace it, but without much force ; I did not succeed. I satisfied myself afresh that the abdominal muscles were not contracted. The vomiting had ceased for some hours, but the sickness persisted. The woman, advanced in years, tolerably decrepit, was much depressed. She told me that, this very day, she had been much grieved ; and she still appeared so much affected, that I did not think it right to question her. This influence continued whilst she remained in the hospital. " Tranquillised by the absence of rigidity of the abdomen, by the dulness of the tumour, instructed by the previous attempts, I con- sidered it useless to try the taxis further; I thought there might be only omentum, that the local symptoms might have been caused by the pi-evious proceedings, and the general symptoms from the severe mental disturbance ; moreover I perceived nothing very threatening; I ordered a large poultice, and recommended that the patient should be carefully watched. Next day she was a little relieved : she had slept; she had a motion, and the sickness ceased. During the next few days, the redness disappeared under the use of emollients and rest; the part became painless; to the touch it felt as before. A part of the tumour had been long irreducible ; as it gave her no inconvenience, she neglected it, placing on it the truss which she constantly carried. The aid of a medical man had never been required, except this last time. In a week, everything had returned to its usual state; health was restored." The author of course admits that such inflammations of the omentum, of large hernia?, or of the sac, may become dangerous; the inflamma- tion may induce suppuration, gangrene, it may spread to the peritoneal cavity, &c. Such phenomena must, however, be distinguished from those caused by genuine strangulation. Max Langenlech, anew mode of operating for hernia ('Allg. AVien. Med. Zeit.,'" 186.3, P- 377. ^^•)-—^'^^^ incision, only just large enough to allow the introduction of the index finger, is made at the inner side of the neck of tlic tumour. The finger is then pressed to the constricting part, the ligament of Gimbernat in a femoral, the external or internal ring in an inguinal hernia, and at the same time worked round llie sac so as to separate it from tlie surrounding tissues. Then, with the nailSIMVLE OPERATION FOE HERNIA. » 337 turned to the tumour, the finger is gently pressed into tlie ring ; there is then, according to the autlior, no difficulty, as soon as the finger has been passed half the length of its distal phalanx into the ring, in tear- ing Gimhernat's ligament from its attachment to the bone, and a similar plan is followed with reference to the inguinal variety of rupture. In rare cases he admits the necessity of a small incision, which may be further dilated with the finger. The author has followed this plan in 7 femoral and 3 inguinal herniaa; in no case did the operation take more than 5 minutes, in several only 2. The symptoms of strangulation immediately disappeared, and the wound healed in a few days : all the patients recovered. He thinks that this operation is less dangerous than the old method; the rapidity of conva- lescence is also of some importance. He urges the advantages of not opening the sac and of very freely dilating the aperture, so that the bowel may suffer no injury. Should it appear for any reason advisable to open the sac, the subcutaneous wound can be readily enlarged by the bistoury. F. Jordan, a simplijlcatioii of the extra-peritoneal operation in the several varieties of strangulated hernia (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, i, 641 ; ii, 5).—Mr. Jordan recommends a proceeding in some respects similar to the one just described. He says :—" It is the object of this paper to show that all that is necessary in practice is to relieve the tension of Gimbernat's ligament in femoral hernia, of the conjoined tendon or fibrous apertures in inguinal hernia, and of the linea alba in umbilical and the more common forms of ventral hernia. As a rule, these structures can be reached and relaxed, the cutaneous tissues only being divided prior to the use of the hernia knife." " A short incision is made through the skin and superficial fascia3 near the neck of the tumour, and sufficiently large to admit the end of the fiuger. The superficial fasciee are di-sdded (not necessarily com- pletely) to an extent which will enable the finger-nail to detect the in- terstice or boundary line between the firm, immovable, unyielding apertural margin and the more movable and yielding tissues of the hernia. For example, in femoral hernia it is not necessary to cut through every flake of connective tissue down to Gimbernat's ligament. It is enough if the finger-nail discovers with ease and certainty the margin of that structure. As the hernia knife (blunt pointed, but cutting to the point) is insinuated along the finger-nail, close to the firm, constricting margin, it may advantageously carry before it a little connective tissue ; thus all tissues are divided to the least possible extent, and the knife is much less liable to perforate the peritoneum. The practical rule, then, in all cases of hernia, is to divide the skin and just enough of the subcutaneous connective tissue to permit the tense margin to be felt, which it is proposed to relax. Anatomical knowledge is applied here not to determine how much tissue shall be divided—that is best decided by the touch—but to determine the precise direction in which, and the precise point to which, the finger-nail is to be carried. I regard it as an important feature of the pretaxoid operation that a lamina of tissue (crural sheath, fascia trausversalis, &c.), shall, if pos- sible, come between the peritoneal structures and the hernia knife 22REPORT ON SURGERY. 888 Tlie heruiatome is uext used in the most epai-iug mauuer, not only iu the very limited application of the edge, but, which is even more im- portant, in the limited introduction of the point, for the ])eritoneal structures are stretched thin and closely applied to the abdominal aspect of the apertural wtructures. In few cases should the herniatome pass beyoud the Huger-nail, and in umbilical hernia not at all. In- cision of the tense margin is followed by pressure with the nail and tip of the linger, in the direction in which the incision was made. Pres- sure must on no account be made towards the abdominal cavity; neither fingers, directors, nor knifes should be carried in this direction. If the finger be passed into the abdomen before the margin is relaxed, there is no strangulation, and no operation should have been performed; if strangulation be present, the introduction of the finger after the limited use of the herniatome is more likely to injure, and seriously injure, the bowel and peritoneum, than to effect any useful dilatation. Gentle and momentary application of the taxis to the unwounded coverings completes the operation." In further explanation we may extract Mr. Jordan's description of its application to umbilical hernia. " The operation is especially appli- cable to umbilical hernia, as division of the cutaneous structures brings the finger so easily to the margin of the opening. It is most impera- tive here to carry the hernia knife as far as the nail only; where the margin of the linea alba projects after the manner of a short tube (as in a large irreducible strangulated case which occurred to me recently, in which convalescence followed the pretaxoid operation, but which ulti- mately terminated fatally in consequence of the grossest imprudence), the nail must precede the point of the knife step by step. The linea alba is thin; the fascia trausversalis is extremely thin ; the subperito- neal tissue is scanty, and, with the peritoneum, is pressed close to the margin of the outlet. In irreducible umbilical hernia it is of immense importance not to open these thinner structures except the linea alba." J. "Wood on hernia ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, i, 29, &c.). Dr. Friedberg on the influence of phimosis in the production of rupture during the first year of life (' Prag. Viertelj.,' 1864, i, i). Mr. Couper, case of hernia without sac (' Lend. Hosp. Eep.,' i, 177). S. "Wells on the diagnosis of ovarian hernia ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, i, 104). Dr. Abegg, reduction, en bloc, of a femoral hernia (' Deutsche Klin.,' 1863, p. 503). C. AV. Streubel on the pseudo-reduction of herniae, espe- cially of strangulated herniffi (reprint from the ' "\^erhandl. d. med. Gesellsch. zu Leipz.,' vol. i). A. Piedler, empty hernial sac with symptoms of strangulation, operation ('Arch, der Heilk.,' 1864, p. 286). "W. Eoser on the theory of strangulation (1. c, p. 85). E. Zeis describes two cases of hernia without sac in which the bowel was opened,—he imagines the sac had been ruptured during taxis; and one case in which he met with a double sac ('Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' vi, 136). Inguinal hernia.—li. Davies on the cure of inguinal hernia in chil- dren ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, i, 666). J. Scholz, case of wound of the epigastric ('Spit. Zeit.,' 1864, p. 236). J. Birkett, cases de- pending upon abnormal conditions of the vaginal process of the peri- toneum (' Guy's Hosp. Reports,' x, 261).EXAMINATION OP THE EECTUM. 389 Femoral hernia.—M. Fleury ou haemorrhage after an operatiou per- formed at the catamenial period (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 546). Prof. Blaziua, case of multilocular sac ('Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, ^^ H.'^Lee, radical cure of umbilical hernia ('Brit. Med. Jouru.,' 1863, ii, 543). Dr. Peacock, diaphragmatic hernia (' Trans, of the Path. Soc.,' xiv, 146). J. C. Porster, case of modified obturator (?) hernia (' Guy's Hosp. Eeports,' x, 143). BECTUM. W. H. van Bureii, certain points in the surgical treatment of diseases of the rectum ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1864, i, 218).—The author explains the best mode of exploring the rectum by the aid of the speculum in the following words. " Before the employment of anaesthetics, even with the variety of specula devised for the purpose, this procedure was, in my experience, unsatisfactory. The power of rendering a patient uncon- scious has proved of immense assistance; but, in order to effect the object thoroughly, it is necessary, after the full influence of the anaes- thetic has been produced, to place the patient in a particular position, as well as to secure the best possible light. The position which I have found most advantageous is that employed by our colleague, Dr. Marion Sims, in his very successful operations upon the vagina and neck of the uterus, the superiority of which he first recognised and pointed out, as detailed in his paper ou ' Silver Sutures.' " The patient is placed with the upper part of the trunk in a prone l^ositiou, the front of the thorax in contact with the bed or table, the head on its left side, the left arm brought out at the left side and car- ried behind the back, the pelvis on its left side, with the thighs flexed at a right angle, and the buttocks exposed towards the light, and ele- vated sufficiently to permit the abdominal viscera to gravitate towards the diaphragm. These details may seem unnecessarily minute, but those who have witnessed the operations of Dr. Sims will bear witness that they are easily carried out in pi-actice, and that the position secures great advantages to the operator by permitting the air to enter and freely expand the vagina, thus relieved from the pressure of super- incumbent organs. In exploration of the rectum the same advantages ai'e obtained as soon as the sphincter ani is dilated by the introduction of the speculum. The speculum I employ is a modification of that used for the vagina by Dr. Sims; the modifications consisting in the notch at its angle intended to receive the sphincter muscle, and thus to resist the tendency of the instrument to slip out when the muscle is put upon the stretch, and the alteration of the handle, which is so shaped as to clear the buttock when it is swept round, so as to bring all sides of the cavity of the gut into view. To facilitate still further this latter manoeuvre, and to protect the sti'etched mucous membrane from abrasion, the edges of the blade are carefully rounded and turned inwards. '"J'he speculum being introduced and the sphincter put upon the stretch with one hand, the other hand is used to draw away the parts on the opposite side of the orifice; and, the handle of the instrumentUEPOUT ON SUUOERY. 310 beiug then gradually swept arouiKl, tlio light fall.s successively upou all sides of the exposed aud expanded cavity. By the use of this inanipuhatiou applied to a patient in the position just described, I have frequently obtained a satisfactory view of the whole extent of the cavity of the rectum as high as its upper curve." The next point to which the author alludes is forcible dilulalion of the sphincter auL muscle. He considers it the proper remedy for fissure of the rectum; it need not confine the patient to his bed more tliau a single day, and its efl'ects are as prompt and sure as those of the knife. The immediate cause of the peculiar and insupportable pain of an irritable ulcer of the rectum is the constant and involuntary spasmodic contraction of the sphincter ani muscle, by which the sensitive sore ia continually squeezed and pinched. The pain thus produced varies both in degree and in duration. It may be slight and transient, or it may be almost insupportable in severity, and last eight or ten hours. The act of defecation itself is often accompanied by a slight degree only of soi'eness, aud there is generally an interval of ease after the defecation before the peculiar pain of the disease sets in, and this interval is longer if the stool be solid in consistence. As to the interval that elapses between the evacuation of the bowels and the occurrence of pain, the author says,—" To me it seems plain that the dilatation to which the orifice of the anus is subjected by the extrusion of faeces during the act of defecation is sufiicieut to prevent the fibres of the sphincter muscle from resuming their full tonic con- tractility for a short interval, and that the length of the interval depends entirely upon the size and hardness of the mass extruded, and the amount of stretching to which the orifice has been subjected. " If this view be correct as to the cause of the pain in this disease, it follows that any means by which the contractile power of the sphincter is interrupted or temporarily abolished will relieve it at once. Its division by the knife illustrates the fact. Now, it is well known that forcible stretching of muscular tissue will temporarily impair its con- tractility. The paralysis of the bladder which so often follows its over- distention in retention of urine, is an example of this. And thus it is explained why forcible dilatation or stretching of the anal orifice arrests at once the pain of an irritable ulcer of the rectum, aud is followed by its speedy cure." "Now, the operation of forcible dilatation, as I have been in the habit of performing it, by introducing the two thumbs into the anus, flexing them so as to include the breadth of the sphincter muscle, and then, taking a pm-chase with the outstretched hands from either buttock, drawing them forcibly asunder until arrested by the ischial tuberosities, elfects such a stretching of its fibres as to paralyse the sphincter for at least a week, during which time the ulcer assumes a healthy api)ear- ancc and rapidly heals, the pain ceasing entirely from the time of the operation." After relating some cases, the author remarks,—"I have been asked whether the paralysis of the sphincter ani, produced by forcible dilata- tion, is ever followed by incontinence or loss of control over the contents of the \ov, er bowel, the relaxed aud llabby appearance of the orifice841 FORCIBLE DILATATION OF THE ANUS. of tlie anus after the operation certainly suggests this idea, and the fact that when the patient is asiced to contract his sphincter by voluntary eifort lie generally expresses his inability to do so, looks in the same ' direction. But, iii answer to the question, I must say that in upwards of twenty cases which have come under ray observation, I have never seen any indications of incontinence, and that I believe the internal sphincter to be equal to any emergency likely to arise during the temporary suspension of the functions of tlie more powerful external muscle. " This remedial measure has a wider application than to the treatment of irritable ulcer of the rectum. In inflamed hsemorrhoidal tumours, or any painful inflammatory affections of the anus, where the spasmodic contractions of the sphincter constitute the pi'incipal source of the pain and obstruction to the circulation, the stretching of the sphincter, with or without the intervention of an ancesthetic, will afford prompt and certain relief. It is equally applicable to the affection described by some authors as ' spasm,' and by others as ' painful contraction' of the sphincter, and also in the ' neuralgia of the anus' of nervous subjects and hysterical women. " I have been in the habit for several years past of employing this manoeuvre after the operation for the cure of hasmorrlioidal tumours, whether by ligature or the nse of the ecraseur. The result has been always favorable. The patient is entirely saved from the severe pain, generally lasting several days, which is caused by the pinching of the tender and inflamed parts by the spasmodic contractions of the irritable sphincter. By throwing it out of play, the suffering after the opera- tion is reduced to a very moderate degree of local soreness, and the necessity for the employment of the catheter, through sympathetic disturbance of the sphincter of the bladdei", is abolished." E. Hamilton ('Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Science,' vol. xxxvii, p. 329) defends the use of the ecraseur in the treatment of hcemorrhotds. It should, however, be employed only in the removal of internal piles of the longitudinal and pedunculated variety. He has himself repeatedly used it in such cases, and is not aware of a single instance in which the disease has reappeared or the patient has applied for the relief of symptoms which could be attributed to its use. Malformations.—M. Demarquay, Littre's operation, &c. (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 513). M. Lemaistre, case (1. c, 1864, p. 54). .Diseases.—H. Smith on the clamp in hajmorrhoids and prolapsus ('Lane.,' 1863, ii, 506). J. E. Humphreys, cancer—operation for artificial anus—temporary relief ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, i, 230). QENITO-TTBHTABY OEOANS. Spermatorrhoea.—W. Parker, after describing the symptoms and treat- ment of this affection ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1864, i, 265, 289), refers " to two other conditions—one physical, and the other mental, and both difficult to overcome. "The first is a discharge from the urethra while at stool, especially when the fa;ccs are hard and dry ; tliis discharge is called semiual, andllEPOET ON SUllGEKY. 842 often excites very great alarm in the patient, and inakcH him almost frantic. Tlie fact is, this discharge is not seminal, or only slightly so, but is a secretion from the vesicula) seminales ; and when this discharge amounts to much, it is the result of over-excitement in tlie parts, or the consequence of nrethritis, and connected Avith epididymitis, and is, pathologically speaking, a catarrh or kind of gleet or leucorrlioea. When this discharge is copious, there are present the ordinary symptoms of nervous prostration both in mind and body. The pro- gnosis on the whole is favorable. The treatment consists in attention to the bowels, keeping them in an easy condition. &ood food, phos- phoric acid, and strychnia, iron, and ergotine internally, and cold water injections into the rectum and bladder. The water should remain in the I'ectum, and not excite action of the organ. " The second condition, or mental, to which I call your attention is a species of monomania. The patient labours under the conviction that he is impotent; that he is no man; that he is disqualified for marital relations ; that he can never procreate, &c., &c., and he broods over this idea, and cannot be reasoned out of it, and exhibits his un- soundness of mind by his false resouing—it is a genito-mauia. If under an engagement to marry, as tl:e time draws near, he will become much excited and wretched. He often will say to you he is sure of his im- poteney, for he has made the experiment with some woman of the town and lias failed; the erection subsided, and he retired in disgust and despair. What are you to do with such cases ? Can you, by argu- ment, lead them to correct views ? Generally you cannot, and they bring forward their experimentum crucis, which with them is conclusive. Some persons cannot pass water if they tliinh some one is looking at them. You may take the ground boldly that they are not impotent; their experimentum crucis proves only that, while their mind was watch- ing the action of the penis, they were not in a condition for successful copulation. I can say, as the result of experience, I have yet to see thejirst case of impotence among that class of persons. If engaged and prepared to marry, I recommend the consummation of the act; the sooner the better; and when they retire to their nuptial bed, to le sure and keep on their own side of it. This part of my advice they never follow long ; they soon become sane in mind ; and often, in the course of nine months or so, they prove themselves sound in body as well as in mind." M. E. Leroy attributes urethral fever to nephritis (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, p. 467). M. Kichard on forced dilatation in spermatorrhoea (1. c., p. 189). B. Schulz on aspermaiisjnus from atrophy of the prostate ('Wien. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, pp. 68, 83). T. B. Curling, observations on sterility in man (' Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eeview.,' vol. xxxiii, p. 494). Prof. Elihle ou tahes dorsalis ('Greifsw. Med. Beitr.,' i, i; ii, Report, p. 11). Dr. Eussell ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1863, ii, 455). Penis.—Dr. Buroio recommends the local application of the acetate of alumina in balanitis ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 178). He pre- scribes it in the following manner:—$0 Plumb. Acet. 3.], Alum. crud. 5v, A^. Font. 5viij. M. lilt. A perfectly clear lluid is thus obtamed;343 TBEATJIENT 01" BALANITIS. it is applied to the affected parts by means of a piece of lint soaked three to six times daily in it. He employs this preparation also in the treatment of ulcers, and as a disinfecting agent; he says that the rapidity with which it destroys the fetid smell of ulcerations on the foot, is truly surprising. A. Marten, congenital union of the penis with the scrotum ('Arch, fur path. Anat.,' vol. xxviii, p. _555). L. le Fort on an error which may be caused by hypospadias (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, p. 593). M. Groyrand, operation for elephantiasis (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1863, p. 812). J. Thompson on paraphimosis ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, ii, 363). A. Verneuil, neurosis after a contusion (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 610). J. Ressel on amputation by the galvano-caustic method ('Arch. Gen.,' 1864, i, 544. 688). E. M'Donnell, case of liwmatocele (' Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' vol. xxxviii, p. 211). H. Eohlfs on the radical cure of hydrocele (Bremen, H. Strack; 'Schmidt's Jahrb.,' vol. 119, p. 133). J. L. AV. Thudichum on a hy- drocele containing milky serum ('Lane.,' 1864, i, 434). Testis.—E. Miiller, descent in an unusual direction (' Schweiz. Zeitsch. fiirHeilk.,' iii, 153). H. Smith on puuctaring in acute orchitis (' Lane.,' 1864, ii, 149). AV". Fetters, chronic epididymitis with hydrocele, &c. (' Prag. Med. AVochenschr.,' 1864, p. 233). F. C. Skey, ligature of the spermatic artery in disease ('Lane.,' 1864, i, 32). M. Velpeau, ence- phaloid of testis (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1863, p. 581). Mr. Canton, excision in case of hypertrophy of the vulva (' Lane.,' 1863, ii, 448). BLADDEE. JB. Holt, clironic hypertropliy of the bladder, with freqiient micturition ('Lane.,' 1863, ii, 701).—A blacksmith, aged 19, a strong muscular man, was admitted on July 21st, 1863. The patient stated that, 3 years since, he fell across a log of wood, which at the time occasioned but little inconvenience; but about a Aveek subsequently, after haA-ing taken a long walk, he experienced a very severe aching pain in the course of the urethra, and a constant desire to pass his urine, succeeded in about a week by a purulent discharge. This continued for a month or more unheeded by the patient; at the end of that time he was treated by a druggist, and afterwards by the parochial surgeon, for gonorrhoea. He was afterwards treated by several surgeons, but without finding relief. " Having heard the man's statement, Mr. Holt examined his bladder, first without and subsequently with chloroform, without detecting any foreign body. The bladder was much contracted and roughened, and the prostate was slightly enlarged. The urine contained pus and mucus, with phosphatic crystals, the latter probably dependent on the condition of the bladder. He was compelled to urinate every half hour, and he experienced great pain afterwai-ds; tho bladder, eA en. under chloroform, would only hold a ounces. Mr. Holt prescribed bromide of potassium, liquor potassae, and chlorodyne, but withoutREPORT ON SURGERY. relief; and the patient subsequently took, at diflerent times, acetate of potash, liquor potassaa and opium, pareira brava and acid, with a like result. Pindin<i[ that after a fair trial of various remedies they were of little benefit, Mr. Holt desired that his bladder sliould be injected every morning with a drachm of the tincture of opium to an ounce of water; but as this gave but transient ease, the sedative solution of opium was substituted for it; this after a few days gave considerable relief, and he was enabled to retain his urine for from three quarters of an hour to an hour, 3 ounces of urine being now the quantity that was usTially passed. This treatment was continued for a month, the bladder still refusing to hold more than ,3 ounces of urine. The injec- tion was directed to be repeated in the evening, but the second passing of the catheter produced so mucli irritation that after a week's trial the injection was altogether omitted. He still continued to pass 3 ounces. The iodide of potassium was now prescribed yi ^-grain doses, with directions to increase the dose every .3rd day; and after the lapse of a fortnight the daily injection of the solution of opium was resumed. The benefit of tliis treatment was soon apparent, for in a short time the bladder was found to contain 31 ounces, and occasion- ally 3 ounces 7 di'achms ; the intervals being usually an hour and three quarters, and sometimes 2^ hours. This ti-eatment is now being pur- sued, and apparently with the most satisfactory results." Mr. Holt remarks that—"If the surgeon, under whose care this man first came, had carefidly inquired into his history, he would have ascertained that the frequency of micturition preceded the di.scharge, and that the pain the patient complained of was after the bladder had been emptied, and not the ardor urinsB that accompanies an attack of gonorrhoea. The mischief was in the bladder, more especially at its neck; and although the proximate cause was the injury to the urethra, the serious symptoms depended on inflammation of the bladder. But supposing it had been otherwise, and the inflammation of the bladder had resulted from gonorrhoea, surely the bladder complication required the first attention, and could not be remedied by copaiba or cubebs." On the diagnosis, Mr. Holt states that " during the time the patient was aufesthesiated I injected his bladder; but although he was perfectly unresisting, I could never force in more than 2 ounces of tepid water, which, taken in connection Avith the limited movement of the sound and the absence of any tumour or irregularity, assured me that he was sufiering from hypertrophied bladder." T. Smith, prolapsus of tlie ureters into the bladder (' Trans. Path. Soc.,' xiv, 185). Prof Maschka, case of extra-peritoneal rupture, &c. (' Prag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 64). H. Teleky, case of rupture ('AVien. Med. Halle,' 1S64, p. 332). H.Smith, removal of piece of tobacco-pipe ('Lane.,' 1864, i, 350). J. Adams on retention of urine (1. c, 1863, ii, 557). T. Paget, case of retention, treated by pimcture of the bladder and a permanent tube for micturition ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, ii, 213). M. Laugier, dysuria in a case of contusion of the hip ('Gaz. des H6p.,' 1863, p. 569). Dr. Fiirstenheim, case of disease, &c. ('Berl. kliu. Wochenschr.,' 1864, p. 291). 11. Schneider, two cases of enormous dilatation ('Schweiz. Zeitschr. ftir Hcilk,' ii, 453)-845 INTERNAL URETHROTOMY. M. Eichnrd, lithotomy for vesical neuralgia ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, p. 189). M. Voillemier on subpubic puncture (1. c, 1863, p. y.-J^). Frosiate.—F. M. Luther, case of vesical paracentesis lu retention of urine from enlargement ('Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' vol. sxxvi, p. 233). A. Mitsclierlich, case of recto-vesical fistula in consequence of tubercular destruction ('Arch, fiir path. Anat.,' vol. ixix, p. 236). E. EoUett, cancer (' Spit. Zeit,,' 1864, pp. ^33, 241). URETHRA. S. Stilling on the mire of organic stricture of the urethra ly internal division ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 353, &c.). The author has, on previous occasions, defended this method, and endeavoured to prove it the most rational mode of curing organic strictures. He admits under this method only such an incision as— 1. Divides the whole extent of the contracted portion. 2. Acts by longitudinal sections from the centre or free edge of the stricture towards its base. 3. At once restores, or allows the restoration of, the normal diameter of the urethra. 4. Avoids any injury to the urethra elsewhere than at (before or behind) the stricture. He appends some interesting cases, and remarks that the first patient on whom he used his urethrotome in 1853, is still in excellent health, and without any sign of recurrence. The first case, which he now records, is to the following effect:—In the middle of Nov., 1855, Dr. Stilling was called in consultation to a gentleman, aged 48, who was supposed to be suffering from typhus fever. A small tumour was found in the perinajum; a catheter could be introduced as far as the membranous portion, but no instrument could be passed through the stricture; next day the scrotum was swollen, and on it there were some gangrenous spots; deep incisions were now made, &c. After a time the patient recovered. Dr. Stilling now learnt, that the patient had suffered from gonorrhoea in his 26th year (1833, thus 22 years before), which, through improper treatment, had become chronic; that he had again, at a later period, suffered an acute attack, and had from that time never been perfectly free from gleet for ten years. A great variety of treatment was employed; among other things mercurials were used for a lengthened period, both internally and externally, and bougies were regularly introduced. The patient became hypochondriacal; despairing of relief, he abandoned for a time all treatment. Ho gained strength by a course of hydropathic treatment, married, and had several healthy children. His sufferings, however, recurred with increased severity from time to time; he was once attacked by severe cystitis after an instrumental examination. He was again treated by bougies, and received relief for a time, but for a time only. In the autumn of 1855 ho felt a violent pain in the periuteum after a nocturnal emission. During the following afternoon there was a rigor, in the evening fever;ttEPOUT ON SUHGETIY. 346 the rigor recurred during the following daye, and the fever was accom- panied by extreme depression, violent sacral pains, and delirium. This Avas the state in which Dr. Stilling found the patient at his first visit. On the loth April, 1856, the stricture was divided from before back- wards. No particular symptoms followed ; the bougie or catheter was regularly introduced for some months. The patient then discontinued treatment. Dr. Stilling adds, that up to Sept., 1863, he had remained perfectly well. The author thinks the laceration of the urethra was the result of the seminal emission. He asserts that the force with which the semen is pressed against the stricture is decidedly much greater than that exerted in passing urine. The perineal swelling was probably caused by extravasated semen, the urine not escaping into the cavity till after- wards. Dr. Stilling thinks that the latter might, perhaps, have been avoided, had it been possible to introduce a catheter, immediately after the seminal emission, into the bladder, and to retain it there for a few days, till the wound had become coated with lymph. M. S. Collis, 2)racfical observations on tlie treatment of organic stric- ture of the urethra, hy means of sea-iueed bougies* (' Dubl. Quart. Journ. of Med. Science,' vol. xxxvii, p. 373).—" Freely growing along our shore, the Laminaria cligitata, commonly known as the sea-girdles or tangle, supplies admirable material, in its tough perennial stem, for bougies of a superior description. The great tenacity and strength of this sea-plant must be familiar to all who have rambled along the shore ; when dried, it becomes hard and capable of reduction into bougies of great strength and of very considerable finish. They will re- ceive and retain any curve that may be given to them; and by dipping them into warm water and rubbing them between the iingers, their sur- face will become sufficiently soft and smooth for introduction into the urethra. Oil may be used with them as with other bougies, but in time its action upon their tenacity would be deleterious. When immersed in water they swell rapidly—in a few hours more than doubling their diameter." Dr. Sloan states that a tangle-tent freely exposed to moisture doubles its diameter in 4 hours, and in 48 hours increases to i\ times. " Their dilating power is, therefore, great; it is also rapid. One case of very resisting organic stricture, in which I lately used them, may serve as an example:—in less than a Aveek I\ 0. 9 could be passed with ease, although at first the stricture was with great difficulty traversed by No. 2. Only three times was an instrument introduced, and the entire number of hours that they were left in amounted to less than 3. Considering that the case Avas one of traumatic stricture, this result is singularly satisfactory. The amount of pain produced by these bougies is trifling, so long as" they are left in contact with the mucous surface of the urethra, and not moved from the situation in which they have been first placed ; but if moved backwards and forwards, after a lapse of 20 minutes or upwards, when they have begun to swell, much pain will be produced ; this interference 'is unnecessary, and I only allude to it in order to caution surgeons against it. Once placed in the * Tlie.-je bougies arc manufuctured by Krohne of London.SPA-WEEB BOUGIES. 347 position required, they should be kept there until it is judged proper to remove tliem. And this leads me to remark upon another point in connection with their rapid enlargement. "When in free contact with moisture, thej swell so much that their diameter is more than doubled. !Now, although in the smaller numbers this increase in size may not be capable of producing any mischievous consequences, yet if we see fit to use such a size as No. 7 or 8, it will be most important to bear this pro- perty in mind: suppose such a bougie introduced fully into the bladder, beyond a stricture situated about the bulb, all that part of the bougie in contact with urine dilates to the full extent; that within the grasp of the stricture, only to the size of No. 10 or 11: hence we have a large and somewhat softened bulb at the distal side of the obstruction, and it is plain that its withdrawal will be both difficult and painful, even if the tenacity of the instrument be sufficient to prevent the serious ac- cident of its fracture. Hence, the caution is imperative of not advanc- ing the bougie into the bladder—in fact, the distance of the stricture from the orifice should be carefully measured before the bougie is finally settled into its place, and the point of the bougie should only just pass beyond the vesical end of the stricture." B. Stilling, congenital deficiency, formation of a new canal from meatus to bladder ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 319). P. H. AVatson, cases of injury (' Edinb. Med. Jouru.,' ix, 923). C. Heath on extraction of a hair- pin from the male urethra ('Lane.,' 1864,1, 120). Prof Bardeleben, serious bleeding from the ui-ethra (' Greifsw. Med. Beitr.,' ii, Eeport, p. 53). M. Notta, destruction of subpubic portion, operation, cure (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1864, p. 95). van Hoeter, cases of calculi, &c. (' Bull. Beige,' 1863, pp. 905, 916). M. Beyran, polypus in the male urethra (' Gaz. Med. de Paris,' 21 Nov., 1863). Prof. Dittel on urethral fistulse ('Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,' 1863, p. 249). E. Thoman, case of fistula ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1864, p. 34). M. Lagneau on neuralgia (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, p. 190). P. C. Smyly on the treatment of stric- ture by the more "immediate plan " (' Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' vol. xxxv, p. 80). Prof. V. Dumreicher on stricture ('Wien. Med. Halle,' 1864, p. 1, &c.). B. Holt on the uses of the stricture dilator (' Lane.,' 1864, ii, 206). STONE. Dr. Dolbeau, practical treatise on vesical calculus (Paris, A. Delahaye). L. Porta, treatise on lithotrity (Leipz., Engelmann). L. A. Mercier on a cause of recurrence after operations for stone (' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1864, p. 550).—The author endeavours to show that in every case of lithothomy or lithotrity in which the patient presents symptoms of advanced chronic nephriti.s with alkaline urine and a tendency to phosphatic deposit, the surgeon should be on the watch for exfoliation of patches of mucous membrane encrusted with these salts, for such patches might become the nuclei of secondary stones. He thinks that he has sometimes prevented recurrences by injections of very weakREPOUT ON SUllGERY. 848 dilutions of nitric or muriatic acid, continued for Home weeks after the operation. Dr. KUen on calculus vesicw and Us treatment in Itmsia. ('Arcli. fiir klin. Cliir.,' vi, 78).—The author has collected the cases which occurred during many years at the Moscow Clinic, and in i860 f^ave an account of the results in an essay on lithotrity, written in the Eussian language. There are few countries, perhaps none, where stone is so common, as towards the centre of European Russia ; the inhabitants of the land watered by the upper part of the Wolga appear to be specially liable to this disease. The more northern and southern portions of the empire present a relatively less proportion of cases, and in the western pro- vinces, so far as the author is aware, stone is very rarely met with. The hospitals of the large cities, especially the clinics of Moscow and Kasan, receive the greater part of the patients; at certain times the fifth part of the surgical patients in the Moscow Clinic consists of cases of stone; on an average, rather more than 60 cases are treated at this hospital every year. These patients belong almost always to the agricultural class ; the number of children is at least thrice that of adults ; of 1792 patients treated at the Moscow Clinic between 1822-60, only 4 Avere females. Compound stones are the most common; pure uric-acid or oxalate-of-lime calculi rarely occur. Generally the nucleus is formed by uric acid or by a urate ; then there is a layer of oxalate of lime, followed by one of phosphates. The affection has generally existed a considerable period when the patients apply at the hospital; adults are, indeed, often in such a con- dition as not to admit of operation; the author observed no less than 36 such cases at the Moscow Clinic in the coui'se of 10 years: even in children the stone was often of considerable size. At the latter age the stone not unfrequently passed into the urethra, and was lodged just behind the external orifice, oi', as happened more often, in the region of the bulb. In respect to lithotomy and lithotrity, the author adduces the statistics collected from the hospitals of IMoscow and Smolensko by Prof. Bassoff (in his work on lithiasis), and by himself These em- brace a total of 4486 cases, of which 3934 recovered. The results of lithotomy,—in all cases the lateral operation was performed—are quite as good as those obtained in France or England, thus :— Hopltal de la Charite and Saucerotte . England (Thompson) Russia (Moscow) . . . . Cases of lithotomy. Deaths. 2809 402 (j) 1002 136 (I) 4486 552 (5!^ Up to the year i860 there had been 222 cases of lithotrity at the Moscow Clinic. In 24 the stone could not bo entirely crushed, and lithotomy had to be secondarily performed; 19 recovered, 5 died. Lithotrity alone was used in the remaining 197 patients; 167 recovered, 31 died. The ratio is therefore as i to 6-35, or rather worse than in iitiiotomy; it must be remembered, however, that the average ago of the patients was greater than that of those submitted to the knife. TheOPEEATION FOU RECTO-VESICAL FISTULA. 349 size of the stone was from 5 to 33 Hues. In 6a cases lithotrity was performed in children between i and 15 years old; of these 6 died. lu 24 cases a single operation only was required to crush the whole stone. The cause of death was almost invariably acute disease of the kidney ; cystitis rarely occurred. The author states that in 20 cases of lithotrity examined after death, extensive renal disease was found 15 times, whilst after lithotomy urinary infiltration, cystitis, peritonitis, and pyasmia Avere more frequently present. He considers that renal disease is an almost decisive contra-iudication of lithotrity, for even the most delicate manipulation may excite very serious symptoms in such cases. To show how often lithotrity was preferred to lithotomy, the author adds that from 1849 to 1859 there were 405 patients with stone treated by operation at the Moscow Clinic; of these 293 were children (i—15 years), and 112 were adults (15—65 years); in the former lithotrity was performed 30 times, in the latter 55 times ; thus out of 10 children about 9 were treated by incision, one by crushing; of 2 adults, i by incision and the other by lithotrity. The stone was crushed success- fully in the 4 females. I)r. Sims on recto-vesical lithotomy ('Lane.,' 1864, i, 111).—Dr. Sims proposes to insert silver-wire sutures after the extraction of the stone, and it appears that a case was thus treated by Drs. Bauer and Sims in 1859. " '^^^ patient was placed on the left side, and my speculum was introduced into the rectum, exposing the anterior wall of the rectum, just as it would the vagina in the female. A sound was passed into the bladder. The Doctor entered the blade of a bistoury in the triangular space bounded by the prostate, the vesiculse seminales, and the perito- neal reduplication. He passed the finger through this opening, felt the stone, and removed it with the forceps without the least trouble. The operation was done as quickly and as easily as it would have been in a female through the vaginal septum. After the removal of the stone, Dr. Bauer kindly asked me to close the wound with silver sutiirgs, which I did, introducing some 5 or 6 wires with the same facility as in the vagina. There was no leakage of urine. The patient recovered without the least trouble of any sort. The wires were removed on the 8th day, and on the 9th day the patient rode in a carriage with Dr. Bauer a distance of 4 or 5 miles, to call on and report himself to our distinguished countryman, Dr. Mott." J. It. Z«Me,referring to Dr.Sims' case ('Lane.,' 1864, i, 151), objects to the incision through the base of the bladder, on account of the great risk of wounding the peritoneum. He records a case of recto-urethral fistula treated by operation. "A. B.—, aged 19, had suffered from stone in the bladder from a very early age. Two and a half years ago, a calculus the size of a walnut was removed by Mr. Lloyd, in St. Bar- tholomew's Hospital. The cicatrix showed that an incision had been made in the raphe of the perineum through the sphincter into the rectum. Externally this wound was soundly liealed, but on examining the in- terior of the rectum an opening was discovered behind the sphincter, leading into the urethra immediately in front of the prostate. The aperture was of %ucli a size as to admit the end of a director. The urethia was otherwise healthy, and a full-sized catheter readily passed350 IlEPORT ON SUEGEB,Y. iuto the bladder. A probe introduced from tlie rectum through the fistulous opening at once came in contact with the catheter in the urethra. Tlie incision, in healing, had not left the anal aperture of the usual circular appearance, but had caused it to be prolonged for- wards in a grooved or angular form. He had good retentive power over bis iicces, but when he passed urine a considerable portion, after escaping through the listula, flowed along this groove down his thighs. He stated that his urine was voided in about equal quantities in this way and by the penis; the annoyance, therefore, was very great, for his clothing was continually saturated with it. The escape, of course, was not constant, as in the case of a fistula leading into the bladder, but only took place periodically and during the act of micturi- tion, liepeated applications of nitrate of silver and of the actual cautery having proved iueflfectual, I determined to pare the edges and bring them together with sutures. " Operation, Jan. 13th.—The large end of Bozeman's speculum was introduced into the rectum, and, to afford increased facility for getting at the aperture, I made a slight incision through the skin and super- ficial fibres of the sphincter on each side. The edges of the fistula were then carefully denuded, and four silver-wire sutures passed. The ends of the sutures were brought through the apertures in a narrow leaden plate, after Bozeman's method, and fastened with perforated shot. The silver catheter which had been held in the urethra and bladder during the operation was then tied in, and the patient sent to bed. i " The catheter was retained for two days, but being found to cause a good deal of pain and irritation, it was then dispensed with, and the patient was allowed to pass his urine by his own efforts along the urethra, which he did without pain and without any leakage through the wound. The leaden plate and the sutures were removed eight days after the operation, when the edges of the wound were found to be in good apposition and well united. There has been no escape of urine by the rectum since the operation, and, at the date of this report, 16 days afterwards, he passes the whole of his urine readily, and in a good stream, by the urethra." G. Seydel, cases of stone ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 339). Dr. Warncke, case of cystic calculus ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, ii, 59). Dr. v. Thaden, case of spontaneous fracture (' Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' vi, 202). Lithotomy—Qc. M. Humphry (' Lane.,' 1864, i, 460, 51.';, &c.). H. Coote, causes of death (1. c, p. 61). B. Stilling ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, pp. 197, 205). J. M. Warren ou lithotomy in young persons ('Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. slvii, p. .555). J. McCraith ou lithotomy in Smyrna ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, ii, 6, 32). J. Hutchinson, a new tube for use after lithotomy (' Loud. Hosp. Rep.,' ^' ^Lithotrity.—R. Thompson, G. Pollock, and T. P. Teale, on Hthotrity without injections (' Lane.,' 1864, i, 209, &c.). B. Stilling (' Deutsche Klin.,' 1864, p. 138). v. v. Ivanchich, cases ('AVien. Med. Wo- chenschr.,' 1864, p. 119, &c.). "W. Coulson, remarks ('Med. Mirror., i, 193, 270).351 SUB-UKGUAL EXOSTOSIS. Very large calculi.-B. Gilbert, cases (' Amer. Joura. of the Med. Sciences,' vol. 48, p. 9^)- ^r. Tyrrell ('Dubl. Quart. Journ., vol. ^^^Stor^eit^the female.-S. Wells on lithotrity ('Med. Tim. and Gaz ' 1864, i, II). G. M. Humphry ('Lane.,' 1864, ii, 114)-. T. Bryant, two cases ti-eated by ra^nd urethral dilatation (1. c, 1864,1, 578). EXTEEMITIES. ill Nelaton on suh-imgual exostosis ('Med. Circ.,' vol. xxv, p. 122).— Twelve months ago, a working man, set. 18, observed that the nail of the right great toe was gradually assuming an improper direction. The extremity of the nail was growing upwards, and caused inconvenience and even pain in walking. The incision of the exuberant portion of the nail gave but little relief, the outer edge of the toe became swelled and tender, and the patient applied to M. Nelaton. The professor easily detected in the painful part a small round tumour protruding beyond the point of the toe, and extending beneath the nail, Avhich it raised; the tumour was red, and presented an orifice from which pressure forced a little drop of pus. The firm consistency pointed to the diagnosis; an osseous growth could alone cause the symptoms. The disease was that described by Dupuytren under the denomination of exostosis of the upper surface of the great toe or subungual exostosis. The great toe is almost always the seat of the affection; once only M. Nelaton met with it in one of the fingers. It must further be re- marked that in nine out of ten cases the exostosis occupies the wider part of the dorsal aspect of the bone, near its external edge, and at the juncture of the lower with the middle third of the phalanx. The tumour is conical, and contains a bony nucleus covered by cartilage. In such a case, the incurvation of the nail upwards, and the consequent distress in walking, first attract the patient's attention. Paring the nail is, of course, employed, and sometimes suffices to relieve the pain; as, in many instances, a protecting horny covering, of moderate thick- ness, forms, the inconvenience becomes less. Yet it occasionally happens, as in the present case, that inflammation is excited by the friction of the shoe, and walking becomes difficult or impossible. The treatment is then plain—the exostosis must be removed. M. Nelaton proceeds as follows:—A muslin bag filled with salt and pounded ice is applied for two or three minutes over the toe, in order to deaden sensation, and with a short and strong knife, the tumour is isolated and removed; sometimes the gouge and mallet must be used. The dressing should be of the simplest character, and in the course of twelve days or a fortnight, healthy granulations form, and a solid cicatrix follows. This was the treatment employed in the present case, and the result was in every respect satisfactory. Upper extremity.—E. M. Hodges, ijyury of the arm common to children of from i—4 years of age ('Boston. Med. and Surg. Journ. ' Sept., 1862). M. Verneuil on an injury of the forearm in young352 llEl'ORT ON SURGERY. children (• Gaz. dea Hop.,' 1864, p. 59). Dr. Eulenbiirg on coiilracted fingers ('Berl. klin. Wochensclir.,' 1864, pp. 224, 234). Lower extremily.—A. Delsol on the perforating disease of the foot (pp. 68, Paris, A. Delahaye). J. Biir, ease of ulcerating tubercular elephantiasis (' Prag. Med. AV'^ochenschr.,' 1864, p. 241, &c.). C. Hueter on the etiology of talipes ('Arch. fiir. klin. Chir.,' iv, 475). D. C. Enos on the treatment of deformities by the plaster bandage ('Amer. Med. Tim.,' 1863, ii, 246). J. Holmes, excision of the astragalus and scaphoid bones ('Trans. Path. Soc.,' xiv, 229). Orlhopcedic surrjerij.—C. Heine on infantile paralysis ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1863, ii, 583). Dr. Heiueke on the treatment of genu valgum, &c., by 2)laster and splint baudtige (' Greifsw. Med. Beitr.,' ii, 65, 200). A. Euleuburg on traumatic paralysis of the nervus peronajus and the consequent deformities of the foot (1. c, p. 178). A Mitscher- lich, congenital malformation of both elbows (' Arch, fiir klin. Chir.,' vi, 218).EE P 0 ET MIDWIFERY AND THE DISEASES OE WOMEN AND CHILDREN. BT JOHN MEABUEN BEiaHT, M.D., ASSISTAXT-SUEGEOJf XO THE HOSPITAL FOB DISEASES 01' WOMEN. LITEEATUEE. We uotice the following works and pamphlets published during the past year. Prof. Heeker, ' Clinical Midwifery,' vol. n, Leipsic. Schultze, ' The first three of a series of Chromo-Lithographic Plates illustrating Midwifery,' Leipsic, Grlinther. De Cristofori's ' Clinical Observations on Obstetrics,' Plorence, Martini. Kehrer, F. A., 'Contributions to Practical Midwifery,' Giessen, Perber. Hodges, H. L., M.D., ' Prin- ciples and Practice of Obstetrics,' PhiladelL)hia, Blanchard. Bitter (of Eittershaiu), G., 'The Pathology and Treatment of Eachitis,' with plates, Berlin, Hirschwald. Pinchard, A., on ' The Induction of Pi-e- inature Labour,' thesis, Strasbourg, Silbermaun. Charpentier, on ' Puerperal Pevers,' Paris, Bailliere. Matthews Duncan, M.D., on' The A'^ariations of the Pertility and Pecundity of AV^oraen according to Age,' pamphlet, Edinburgh. Salmon, A., on ' Eetroversion of the Uterus during Pregnancy,' thesis, Paris, Bailliere. Macari, P., on 'Eclampsia,' Turin, Biancardi. Perla, N., on ' Puerperal Diseases,' Aversa, Murtrofio. Swaync, Gr., ' Obstetric Aphorisms,' 3rd edition, London, Churchill. Panics, W. M., on ' The WoHlian Bodies of the Poetus, and their remains in the Adult,' prize thesis, Edinburgh. Lee, Eobert, M.D., ' Three Hundred Consultations in Midwifery,' London, Churchill. Hicks, Jiraxtou, M.D., on ' Combined E.xternal and Internal Version,' London, Longmans. Hodges on 'The Piitliology and Treatment of Puerperal Convulsions,' London, Churchill. Lciahmann, on ' The Mechanism of Parturition,' London, Churchill. And the ' Transactions of the Obste- trical Society,' vol. 5, London, Longmans. 23354 llEPORT ON MlDWIl'EllY, ETC. DISEASES or "WOMEN. Prof. Faye, on ' Diseases of tlie Female Sexual Organs,' Christiania. Byford, "W. II., M.D., on ' Chronic Inflammation and Displacements of the Unimpreguated Uterus,' Philadelphia, Lindsay. Koehcrle, E. (Stras- bourg), on ' Ovariotomy,' Strasbourg, Bailli^re. Manuel, on ' Pelvic Tumours,' Marburg, Elvert, pamphlet. Klob, on the 'Pathological Anatomy of the Female Sexual Organs,' Vienna, Braumiiller. Maheux, on ' Sterility in Women,' Paris, Bailliere. Freund and Betschler, ' Clinical Contributions on Diseases of Women,' Breslau. Churchill, F., M.D., on ' Diseases of Women,' 5th edition, Dublin, Fannin. And Dr. West, ' Diseases of Women,' 3rd edition. DISEASES OF CHILDEEN. Heunig, Dr. Carl, 'Manual of Diseases of Children,' 3rd edition, Leipsic, Winter. Pasquali, A., on ' Some Diseases of Infancy and Childhood,' Turin. Steffen, A., on 'Diseases of Children,' vol. i,Berlin, Hirschwald. Bouchaud, J. B., on ' Death by Inanition, and Experi- mental Eesearclies on Nutrition in New-born Children,' Paris, Delahaye. Heberle, Ch., on ' The Treatment of the Asphyxia of New- born Children,' thesis, Strasbourg, Silbermanu. Eoyer, H., on ' The Symptomatology of Diseases of Children,' Paris, Asselin. MIDWIFEET. STATISTICS, ETC. Braxton Hicks, M.D., " The Fourth Eeport of the Guy's Hospital Lyiug-In Charity " (' Guy's Hospital Eeports,' vol. 10, 1864). " The Fourth Eeport of the Guy's Hospital Lying-in Charity" gives a summary of all the cases attended during the nine years ending Sept. 30, 1863. The operations of the charity have been before described ('Tear-Book,' 1863, p. 339). The reports given are of cases occurring in out-door practice ; and in computing the relative mortality of these cases with those of in-door charities, it must be remembered that in this charity the patients continue for a longer period under supervision, and seek admission into the hospital long after the ordinary term of attendance has expired. The total number of women attended was 14,871, and of children bom 14,909. Of these, 14,375, or 95-6 per cent., were born alive, and 623, or 4-6 per cent., stillborn. ' In 14,962 of whom the sex is mentioned 7825 were males and 7137 were females, or as 100 to 91. Of the children born alive the males constituted 52 per cent., while of 587 stillborn the males were 347, oi' ';9"4 per cent. Hence the proportion of ma es to females stillborn was greater than the ratio of males to females born alive. Or, in other words, there is a greater relative loss of male infants in parturition, due, as shown below (Table II), to the greater prevalence of podalic and pelvic presentations.355 STATISTICS, ETC. Table I.—Of Presentations imder loliicli the Living Children ivere horn. Miiles. Females. Total. Per cent. Vertex . 7323 .. 6744 ,. . 14.067 97-8 Vertex and funis 6 . 0 .. 6 •04 Vertex and hand 7 6 .. 13 •09 Transverse and varieties . 8 . 8 .. 16 •II Pelvic and podalic . • 103 .. 116 .. 219 i"5 Funis (conditions not mentioned) 4 3 • 7 ■05 Face 25 22 . 47 •32 Total ... . 7476 6899 14,375 Table II.—Shows the Presentations under tohich the 623 Stillborn Children toere delivered, of ivhom mention is made in 587 ; of these, 347 loere males and 238 loere females, or as 1 to "67. Males. Vertex . /rulUerm 2251 g 1 Premature 33 / ' Transverse and / Pull term 161 ^ varieties . \ Premature i j ' Podalic and / Full term 60 1 pelvic. . • L Premature 14 J ' Face o Females. Total. Per cent. /Full term 1411 ^^.^ \Premature 21 J " "' ' /Full term 16 1 , I Premature 3 / ^ ^ "' ^ ' /Full term 43! _ 1 Premature 11 / ^4 128 ... 20-0 Of the 14,871 mothers deaths from all causes occurred in 44 cases. This is about 2^94 cases per 1000, or about i in 340. The death-rate of the preceding 21 years was i in 140, This improved rate is much owing to the diminution of " puerperal fever," especially of the toxajmic varieties. In the present report there is less than i case in 1000, Avhile in a 21 years' report it was i in 234 cases. This low rate of maternal mortality is a very satisfactory evidence of the advantage of home attendance over that of lying-in hospitals. Peritonitis is still the most actively fatal of all the dangers surrounding the lying-in woman, but it is very satisfactory to notice that in no instance has so-called puerperal fever been carried to any other patient. The rule of the charity requires the attendant to restrict himself to any case where it is suspected that any form of such disease is present; and no student who is dissecting or engaged in the post-mortem-inspection room is allowed to attend cases. The very satisfactory results thus obtained have been owing much to the assiduity and attention of gentlemen in attendance, as also to the resident obstetric clerks, under whose more immediate supervision the cases are managed. The cases are arranged under difterent heads, indicating the abnormal presentation or other condition of departure from natural deliver3^ Peritonitis and jiytcmia produced rather more than half the deaths, while hiemorrhage from various causes caused about a fourth. The exhausted and debilitated women that form the gi'eater part of theUKPOllT ON MIDWIFEliy, ETC. 856 liationts aro ill ablo to bear auy great loss, and rapidly succumb to liiuuiorrliagc. Two cases of Ca-sarean section occurred, but in botli the child was already dead when extracted. There were i8 cases of eclampsia, of which died, 2 of thein undelivered. In all, where the iirino was examined, albumen was found. Two cases of distinct arthritic pyscmia aro reported, both proving fatal, after natural labour. It is worthy of remark that, although the attendants bad in each case delivered from 15—20 cases before the character of this disease was recognised, yet to none of the patients was any disease communicated. Hupture of the uterus occurred in 3 cases, besides 2 where it happened during the operation of craniotomy. In every case it occurred in vertex presentations. The proportion to the whole number of cases is I in 49/57. Craniotomy was performed in 18 cases, or i in 833 cases— in 17 of these for want of due relation between the foetal head and the passages. In i case the antero-posterior diameter was 2^ inches, while the child weighed 10^ lbs. Four deaths occurred. The forceps was applied in 82 cases—alone in 75 cases, followed by craniotomy in 5 cases and by turning in 2. JVo death occurred to the mothers. Of the children in 67 cases 12 were stillborn. Version was performed in 77 cases. The result to the children is only recorded in 53 cases. Of these, 15 were living and 38 dead. Of the mothers 6 died, all after hsemorrhage. Of transverse presentations 152 occurred, and of these, 16 were born alive and 36 were stillborn. The reports on retention of the placenta and post-partum haemorrhage are probably in excess of these actual conditions ; 105 cases of the former and 1^8 of the latter are recorded. Placenta prajvia occurred in 21 cases, and 3 deaths re- sulted, in all of which version had been effected. The funis presented in 43 cases, of which 13 children were born living and 30 dead. Fifty cases of face presentation occurred, of which 46 were born alive. There were 3 cases of triplets and 113 cases of twins, or about i in 129 of the Avhole number of women delivered. Induction of premature labour Avas performed in 11 cases. Of these, 6 children died and 5 were born alive. One mother died. Contraction of the bony passages was the reason for the operation in all. GENEEAL AKATOMY AKD PIITSIOLOGT. Dr. Joulin, on " The Pelvis considered in various Eaces of Man " ('L'lJniou M6d.,' 71, 1864). Breslau, Prof., "Experimental Eesearches on the continuance of the Life of the Fcetus after the Death of the Mother" ('Monattschr. f. Geburtsk.,' August, 1864). Dr. A. Hegar, " The Glands of the Decidua and the Hydrorrhoea Gravidarum" ('Mon. f. Geb.,' Dec, 1863). Di*. Joulin submits the following conclusions as the result of his examination of the pelvis in dilferent races of man:—(i) The most important features which have been pointed out as charaeterisuig the Negro and Mongolian races do not exist. (2) The slight diilerences which are observed in the pelvis of the three human races have357 GENEIUL ANAT05IY AND PHYSIOLOGY. nothing truly characteristic. They appear only when tlie comparison is extended to a certain number of subjects; but they are not sufficiently marked to impart a well-marked character to an isolated pelvis. (3) The Mongolian and Negro races present an identity which does not permit them to be distinguished. If, then, by an examination of the cranium Ave can divide the human family into three principal races, the examination of the pelvis furnishes only two groups. In the first the autlior places the Aryan and Caucasian races; in the second tlie Mongolian and Negro. (4) In all the racea, contrary to what has been said, the transverse diameter of the brim is greater than the antero-posterior. (5) In the pelvis of the Negress and Mongolian woman the oblique diameter of the brim differs only from the trans- verse by a few millimetres. In the Aryan the difference is a milli- metre and a half. (6) The verticality of the ilia is more marked in the Mongolian and Negress than in the Aryan. (7) In the races the direction, more or less vertical, of the ilia, does not agree with the form of the cranium, but with that of the chest. In the doli- cocephalous Negro, and in the brachicephalous Mongolian, the iliac foss£e have tlie same direction, because the thoracic conformation is the same. (8) In the Mongolian and Negro races the transparency of the iliac fossa; is almost always recognisable, but it is in (jmeral less than in the Ai'yan. (9) The highest point of the crista illii is in all three races at the middle. (10) It is not exact to say that in the Negro race the iliac crest always attains a higher point of the lumbar vertebrje than in the Aryan, but the variations in the degree of eleva- tion are more frequent and more marked. In this respect, as in all the others, the Mongolian resembles the Negress. (11) The pelves of the yellow and Negro races have a less capacity than those of the white race ; they are shallower, and the pubic arch is larger by some degrees. (12) There exists no correlation between the form of the head and that of the pelvis. These conclusions are based upon an examination of 17 pelves of Negresses and 9 of Mongolian women, which are added to the memoir in two tables. 2.—Prof. Breslau has made a series of experiments upon the lower animals, in order to determine how long the foetus can live after the mother's death. He begins by defining "life" and "death" in the mother, as well as in the foetus. Deatli has occurred when the move- ments of the heart have fallen to the minimum, when there is no peripheral circulation, when the respiration has entirely ceased, when instinctive and reflex movements of entire limbs no longer occur. " Apparent death," i. e. a transition from life to death, or vice versa, is sometimes difficult to determine, and is to be diatiuguished from real death in these experiments. "VVIien, therefore, the movements are few, feeble, tlie limbs relaxed, respiration difficult, interrupted and painful, and the circulation feeble, but still to be felt in the umbilical cord, and reflex movements slightly present on external irritation, then the foetus is apparently dead. Twenty experiments are detailed and tabu- lated, made on hares, rabbits, and guinea-pigs; the principal difficulty358 UEl'ORT ON SriDAVIFERYj ETC. being to deteriniiie the period of iitero-gestation in the two first-named animals. The following are the results: 1. In 9 experimeutH .32 foetuses were found all dead. The modes of death of the mothers were, in 6 asphyxia, in i asphyxia and hanior- rhage, in i chloroform-narcosis, in i paralysis of the nervous centres. The 32 foetuses were removed from the uterus, in one case 2 minutes after the death of the mother, in 2 eases 4 minutes, in i case 5 minutes in a cases 6 minutes, in the remaining 3 cases more than 10 minutes after the death of the mother. 2. Two foetuses were dead, besides one " apparently dead" in one ease. The mother ^yas poisoned by cyanide of potassium. The foetuses were extracted from the mother in the first minute after death. 3. All the fcBtuses, in number 11, were "apparently dead" in 4 experiments. The modes of death of the mother's were, i by asphyxia, I by hsemorrhage, and 2 by chloroform. The ri foetuses were removed from the mother, i litter in the first minute after death, i in 2 minutes, I in 4i minutes, and i in 5 minutes. 4. Three foetuses were apparently dead, together with 6 living, in 3 experiments. The mothers died in 2 cases by hsemori'hage, in i by paralysis of the nerve-centres and hsemorrhage. In these 3 cases the "apparently dead" foetuses were kept alive, in i case 3 minutes, in i case 54- minutes, in i case 8 minutes after the mother's death. In addition to these the living foetuses were kept alive in i case during tbe first minute after the death of the mother, in i case for 2 minutes, in I case for 2f minutes after the mother's death. 5. All the foetuses were alive, 9 in numbei', in 3 experiments. The mothers died, i from asphyxia, 1 from asphyxia and hsemorrhage, i from lifemorrhage. In these 3 experiments, the foetuses Were kept alive in i case during the first minute, in i case during 2 minutes, and in I case about 5 minutes. The following are the conclusions drawn: (1) The life of the foetus always extends beyond the death of the mother, with a certain independence. (2) The life of the foetus in the dead mother is very soon in great danger, manifesting itself in violent convulsive movements, which from their character may be considered as premature respiratory movements, arising from the want of oxygen and the necessity for breathing. (3) Apparent death, into which the foetus commonly passes at the end of the first minute after the death of the mother, is maintained in the foetus enclosed in the uterus in the most favorable case up to 8 minutes ; generally death occurs much earlier. (4) Tlie foetuses removed "apparently dead" from the body of the dead mother are nearer to death than to life, for they do not recover of themselves, but soon jjerish, almost without exception. (5) Only rarely, and in the most favorable case, Avill the foetus be removed alive within 5 minutes after the mother's death. Even in tlie third minute the probability of extracting a living foetus is very plight. (6) If ^vo operate later than 5 minutes we cannot obtain a livingGENERAL ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 359 foetus ; if we operate later than 8 minutes after the death of the mother we cannot even extract an "apparently dead" fostus; the young are by that time always dead. (7) Death frequently occurs earlier with the unborn foetus; indeed, after a few minutes. (8) The mode of death of the mother does not seem to be without influence upon the life and death of the foetus. Death of the mother by asphyxia is unfavorable to the foetus; death by hasmorrhage is more favorable, as also death by chloroform and by paralysis of tlie nerve- centres. (9) The foetus of the hare, although at the end of utero-gestation proportionably smaller and less developed than that of the guinea-pig, appears to be more independent of the death of the mother than the latter. (ro) It appears to be of importance to the continuaace of life whether the foetus is mature or immature, but the experiments on this point convey no satisfactory evidence. Prom these results the author considers the following applications may be made to the human foetus, and to practical midwifery: 1. There can be no doubt that the human foetus, like the brute, always survives its mother if the mode of death be rapid and violent— as from hfemorrhage, asphyxia, blows on the head, apoplexy, &c. 2. The power of resistance of the human foetus is greater than that of the brute; hence the human foetus will louger survive the violent death of its mother. 3. The duty of every physician is always, after the proved death of the mother, to make the Ca^sarcan section as soon as possible, in order to save the life of the child. This, however, may be avoided if the previous death of the foetus be certain, or if delivery can be accomplished more safely and speedily in the natural way, 4. The Ca)sarean section, if not performed within the first 15 to 20 minutes after the death of the mother, will give no prospect of a living or " apparently dead " child. 5. If the mother have died from blood-disease, e. r/. cholera, typhus, puerperal fever, either during pregnancy or labour, scarlatina, smallpox, &c., there is no hope of saving the child's life. The same will be the case in those poisoniugs of the mother wliich give rise to rapid decom- position of the blood, and thus affect the foetus, as by prussic acid. Chloroform-death appears to be an exception, inasmuch as chloroform, as such, does not pass into the fcetal circulation, of which we may be convinced by any labour terminated under chloroform-narcosis. In the discussion which followed upon this memoir in the Obstetrical Society of Eerlin Prof. Martin observed that in none of the 4 cases in which he had performed the Ca;sarcan section after the mother's death had the child been extracted living. In i case the operation was per- foriiied 10 minutes after death, in the second case it was performed "very soon" after death, and in the other 2 it was done within half an hour. Dr. Boehr referred to the statistics of the operation in ' Casper's Wochenschrift,' in which, out of 147 cases, only three living children had been obtained, "REPORT ON MIDWll'lORY, OTf. 360 .3-—Di'- A. lli'giir remarks on tlie inaccuracy of our kuowledgc in reference to the patliology of abortion, premature birtlis, premature detachment of tlie placenta, &c., and points out some of the causes of tliis, of wliicli the greatest is the diiliculty of obtaining tlie whole of the structures, and hence the impossibility of distinguishing between primary and secondary aifections. The early abortions of the fourth or fifth week are very often overlooked, or confounded with other morbid conditions. The so-called lucmorrhagic metritis often arises from retention of some of the ovum-remnants after miscarriage. So that if with au abortion, large portions of the decidua (vera or reflexa) be missing, hajmorrhage will probably follow. He submits the fol- lowing as the results of his examination of various ova expelled at different periods of gestation:—(i) The glands of the decidua vera are found up to the fourth month of pregnancy as simple, undivided canals, provided with well-preserved epithelium, situated as thread- like formations upon the rough surfece of the membranes detached during the abortion. In the serotina the glands were to be discovered in the vicinity of the placental edge up to the third month. (2) In the fifth and sixth mouths the glands were found existing in the same external form. They were less thickly set. The wall was formed by fibres branching out with inlaid nuclei. The contents showed no distinct epithelium. These consisted of a molecular mass, broken up for the most part, with numerous scattered nuclei. As, however, only decidua?, with advanced jiremature fatty metamorphoses, were exa- mined, and inasmuch as the existence of young gland-canals in the middle period of pregnancy were seen by Coste, Kobin, and Kilian, it is probable that perfect, well-preserved glands exist in the vera in the fifth and sixth month also. (3) In the middle layer of the vera the glands run in spiral coils, like the sweat-glands. (4) In that layer of the raucous membrane ■which lies next to the free surface the presence and course of the glands is most diflicult to recognise. (5) The mucous membrane of the uterus separates itself in abortion, or through artificial detachment, in sections of very difi'erent thickness, even in the same period of pregnancy. (6) The hydrorrhea gravidarum depends upon a hypertrophic condition of the uterine mucous membrane with hyperasmia. The glands especially are very numerous and large. The copious efl\isions are explained by this anatomical condition. (7) The decidua vera is to be regarded, even in and after the middle of pregnancy, as a secreting organ, exercising functions. In favour of this view are the gradations from the small degrees of hydrorrhea and the false waters even up to the most developed forms. Two cases are related, in each of which ha>morrhages alternated witli or coincided with the discharge of water.PREGNANCY. 361 PE.EGNANCT. L;me James E., " Pregnfincy after Closure of the O3 Uteri by operation for Vesico-Uterino i'istula" ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, ''Scanzoni, Prof., "Pregnancy without Immissio-Penis" ('Allgvn. Wien. iled. Zeit.,' 1864, No. 4). . Eouth, 0. H. F., M.D., "Diagnosis of Pregnancy from Utermc Fibrous Tumours" ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1864, i, i8j). Annan, Mr., "Protracted Gestation" ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' March, T864). Simpson, Dr. A. R., "A Case of Protracted Gestation" ('Edm. Med. Journ.,' April, 1864). Braun, Prof, "On the Vomiting of Pregnancy" CWochen. der Zeitsch. der Aerzte in Wien.,' Nos. 47, 48, 1863). Kidd, Dr. G. II., " On a case of Vomiting in the eighth month of Pregnancy" ('Dublin Quart. Journ.,' Aug., 1864). I.—Mr. Lane's case is one of much interest. The patient, who stated her age to be 4_5, was first admitted into St. Mary's Hospital in May, 1862, with a fistula,—the result of a protracted labour,—which had been established between the bladder and the canal of the cervix uteri, about half an inch above the os. Prom the position of the fistula the only safe and feasible plan appeared to be to close the os uteri by a plastic operation, leaving the fistula itself uninterfered with, and depending upon it to afford an outlet through which the menstrual fluid could escape into the bladder. The operation was successfully performed on May 14, 1862, the patient having been told that future pregnancy would be impossible. The incontinence of urine was completely arrested, and she left the hospital well in 3 weeks. Menstruation came on about a week after the operation, and the discharge took place through the bladder without pain, and recurred during the three fol- lowing months, after which she ceased to meusti'uate. Pour months after, she had perfect control over her urine, and the os uteri appeared closed, but there was a tumour in the hypogastrium, like the en- larged uterus. It was thought that the iistula had closed, and that tlie menstrual fluid had accumulated iia the uterus. On January 10, 1863, it Avas determined to reopen the os uteri and allow the accumu- lation to escape. A few drops of blood only appeared on tlie puncture being made, but a large quantity of watery fluid escaped during the same day. On the second night after this she was talven ill, and a f(ptus of about four months' date was expelled. Tlie watery discharge wliich followed t])e puncture M-as probably, therefore, the liquor amnii. The patient recovered well from her miscarriage, but irom the reopening of the 03 uteri the urine escaped as before the first operation, thus proving that no change had occurred in the condition of the fistula. She left the hospital after this, but soon returned, with an earnest desire to have the original operation repeated. This was done in the same way as before, and witli the same result. She continued to menstruate regularly through the bladder for six months after the operation. It362 UEPOUT ON MIDWIFEllY, ETC. is difEcult to explain how impregnation could have occurred. It has been suggested that the semen passed through the urethra and bladder into the uterus. The autlior, liowever, rather inclines to the view that some minute capillary communication might have existed through the OS uteri, or, possibly, along the track of one of the Avire Butures. If this be the true explanation, it is remarkable that an aperture which was so minute as to be quite uudiscoverablo by repeated examination, and through whicli no urine or menstrual fluid ever escaped, should have sufliced for the purpose of impregnation. 3.—Prof. Scauzoni relates the case of a woman set. ap, 4 months pregnant, although the orifice of the vagina was closed by a firm and tense membrane, in which an aperture, barely large enough to admit a probe, was discovered Avith much difficulty. The distance from this membrane (tlie hymen) up to the os uteri was about 4 inches. Im- missio-penis Avas quite impossible, as the membrane only yielded A'ery slightly. The opening enlarged during pregnancy, and the membrane lost somewhat of its tension and firmness. As labour progressed one finger could be passed through the opening, but, the density of the membrane preventing the passage of the head, a crucial incision was required to complete delivery. Scanzoni had never before met with a similar instance, and gives no opinion as to how impregnation could have been efli'ected. M. Mattel ('L'Union Med.,' No. 36) relates a similar case of a woman who became pregnant after having been married 11 years. On examination a cul-de-sac was found, Avhich, probably formed through the attempts at copulation, only admitted the finger to the extent of i-i- centimetre. The most careful examination by means of a speculum could not detect the aperture by Avhich the semen must have entered. After severe labour for three days the structures in front of the head gave way, and admitted the finger. Delivery Avas completed by the forceps. 3.—Dr. Eouth points out some of the difficulties in the diagnosis between pregnancy and fibrous tumours of the uterus, and relates cases of great interest bearing on the subject. The breasts have been found to be enlarged in cases of fibrous tumour, and even hypertrophied, and this not only from adipose deposit, but from enlargement of the lacteal vessels. The areola has been marked, and even cedematous; the fol- licles enlarged ; and on pressure a fluid Avhich, under the microscope, showed all the characters of colostrum, has been obtained. Add to this there is occasionally a pseudo-hallotiemcnt felt, Avhich the author has detected in tAVO cases. I. The points of diagnosis in the condition of the breasts are— (i) Their appearance is unsymmetrical. This is rare in pregnancy, but very common in fibroid and ovarian disease. There may be seA cral follicles on one breast, on the other none or only one or two. The sizes of the follicles difler also on both sides, (a) The follicles are of the same colour as the areola, and do not become white on being tightened. (3) True vesicular or pnpuloid follicles, i. c. white follicles, separate or clustered, are never found in a pure case of fibroid tmnour, but are common in i)regnancy. (4) The follicles of the same colour as363 PEEGNANCY. the areola aro most uumerons near the nipi^le in fibroids ; very few, if any, being on tbe outer border of the areola. The reverse is the case in pregnancy. (5) The peculiar white honeycomb layer, external to the dark areola, is never found in cases of fibrous tumours. In addition to these diiferences in the appearances of the breasts— 2. The double cardiac or single cardiac sound are so seldom absent in cases where fibrous tumours assume large proportions that their absence should alone make us doubtful. The aorta may, it is true, be heard through the child's body, but movement of the part at once extinguishes the sound. 3. The projecting umbilicus in pregnancy and its puckering in cases of fibrous tumour give a marked diagnostic diflerence. But moredifiicult still is the differential diagnosis between extra-uterine pregnancy and these tumours of the uterus ; and here the chief difficulty has relation to the value of the early symptoms, and especially the catamenia, vvhicli is generally suppressed in extra-iiterine pregnancy, but increased at some period in the history of fibrous tumours. 4. —Mr. Annan's paper is in continuation of a paper on the same subject ('Ed. Med. Jour.,' Peb., 1857). Two further cases are now recorded.—(i) A woman, ajt. 32, was in great physical and mental distress during her eighth pregnancy, and was delivered, 26 days after the period at which labour threatened, of a large female child, which weighed on the following day 11 lbs. 4 oz. (a) In the second ease the woman was also in great distress, and by her own calculation she had exceeded the period of pregnancy by about five weeks. She suffered greatly during these latter weeks, and was delivered of a male child, which weighed 11 lbs. The author remarks on the connection between the mental emotion existing in both these cases with the prolonged pregnancy. 5. —In Dr. Simpson's case the patient menstruated in the beginning of January, but the period only lasted two days, instead of four, as generally. She quickened in May, and expected to be delivered about the end of September or the beginning of October. She was not delivered until November 29th. Assuming that she did not conceive till the period succeeding that at which the catamenia ceased, the duration of pregnancy could not have been less than 300 days; but if —as the author thinks is more probable—from the short menstruation and the date of quickening, she conceived about the period in January, then utero-gestation continued for 329 days. The condition of the child at birth, and especially of the head, indicated a corresponding degree of development. It measured 21 inches long, and weighed more than \o\ pounds. The head measured more than 14^ inches in circumference; the anterior fontanelle was small and the membrane firm, and the posterior fontanelle was so far obliterated that the corner of the occipital could not be depressed below the parietal bones. —The vomiting of pregnancy is a reflex symptom, having its origin in some uterine or ovarian irritation. Cases are recorded in which some misplacement of the fundus, or inflammation and even ulceration of the 03 and cervix, or false membrane between the fa'tal membranes and the uterus, have been found, and vs, some caseaRE POUT ON jriDWIFEEY, ETC. disease of tlie ovary, but iu most cases no morbid appearance can be detected after death. The sijmptoins are twofold. Tlicre is, first, inverted peristaltic action, causing constipation and vomiting; and secondlij, under tlio inllueucc of perverted nervous action, morbid secretions are tlu'own out. Tiie indications of treatment are —(i) To exhaust for a time the excitability of the nerves proceeding from the lower part of the abdomen, so as to prevent their carrying to tlie spinal cord the morbid impressions which are reflected to the stomach. (2) To restore the peristaltic action to its natural order, to be accom- plished by the use of aperients given by the mouth cr by enemata. (3) To remove the uterine or ovarian irritation, either by sedatives applied directly to the parts, as by suppositories, or, where there is evidence of inflammation, by the application of leeches, caustic, or other local treatment; and when these means fail, and the prostration is so great as to endanger the patient's life, by the induction of premature labour. Prof. Eraun points out the immediate relief given by repo- sition of the uterus iu a case in which constant vomiting w-as associated with anteflexion. In Dr. Kidd's case there was no sickness till the end of the seventh month. The vomiting was then almost incessant, and continued unrelieved for three days. An injection of turpentine and castor oil was then given, with a suppository of morphia afterwards ; the vomiting ceased, and from this period convalescence was un- interrupted. UNUSUAL lOCAI/TTT OP PBEGKAIfCr. Schultze, B. S., "A fully matured Tubo-uterine Gestation, and Transmigration of the Ovum " (' Wurz. Med. Zeitsch.,' 1863, vol. 4). Ereslau, Prof., " Cases of Extra-uterine Gestation, with Polypi of the uterine end of the Fallopian Tube" ('Mon. f. Geb.,** 1863, suppl. heft.) Matthews, Duncan, "A Case of Uterine Ilffimatoeele complicating Extra-uterine Gestation" ('Ed. Med. Journ.,' Jan., 1864). Simpson, Prof., "A Case of Extra-uterine Pregnancy" ('Ed. Med. Journ.,' March, 1864). Day, Edwin, "Extra-uterine Foetation, followed by Intra-utcriuePreg- nancy ; induction of Premature Labour" ('Obstet. Soc. Trans.,' vol. 5). Ott, Alfred, "Case of Extra-uterine Gestation" ('Prag. Med. Wochensch.,' 12, 1864). I.—A healthy priraipara, jet. 22, menstruated last in June, 1862. Labour commenced on March 30, 1863. On the following day repeated attacks of convulsions occurred, with albuminous urine, rapid collapse, and death. The CaBsarean section was performed ten minutes after death. About a pint of bloody serum escaped from tlie abdominal cavity. The uterus was anajmic and flaccid, without trace of contrac- tion. The child was dead, presenting in the first position. The uterus contracted on the removal of the child. The placenta was adherent to the posterior wall, and through an aperture in the right segment of the fundus the right foot of the cliild protruded. The riglit ovary layUNUSUAL LOCALITY OF PREGNANCY. 305 mucb nearer to tlae uterus than the left, was only half its size, and con- tained very few follicles. The rif/ht tube terminated at its abdominal end in a closed sac, without any trace of fimbria?, and covered with pseudo-membranous cords. The peritoneal insertion of the tube in the uterus was 4"' distant from the right edge of the uterine rent. Tlie left ovary contained the corpus luteum. The left tube was adherent to the uterus, and impervious in the outer third of its course. Two good illustrations help to explain the peculiarities of this case. The seat of rupture showed a defective muscular coat, forming a pouch, as if out of a dilatation of the uterine end of the rigid Fallopian tube. This pouch had been covered with decidua and peritoneum, and was the seat of the early development of the ovum, which had been received from the left ovary and tube, and had crossed over the fundus uteri towards the saccular dilatation formed by the uterine mouth of the right tube. The complete closure of the abdominal end of the right tube must have completely prevented the reception of the ovum in this tube ; but the obstruction of the outer third of the left tube might have occurred after the passage of the ovum from the left ovary, which contained the corpus luteum. 2.—Dr. Breslau records two interesting cases of extra-uterine gesta- tion. The first was a healthy woman, set. 30, who six months after marriage was suddenly attacked, without any evident cause, with symp- toms of abdominal hsemorrhage, and died in about 6 hours. After death, extensive effusion of blood was found in the abdominal cavity, and, at the point of opening of the left tube into the uterus, half belonging to the uterus parenchyma and half to the tube, Avas a ruptured sac, which still contained coagulated blood mixed with tufts of chorion-villi. From the size of the sac, the embryo, which could not be found, might have been 2^—3 centimetres long, and the pregnancy have reaclned the 6th or 7th week. The internal mucous membrane of the uterus did not show the usual hypertrophied or hyperplastic condition known as the decidua, and which is generally seen in extra-uterine pregnancies. But the special point of interest in the case was a thin-stalked, oval, mucous polypus, about the size of an orange-pip, which was found just below the uterine orifice of the left tube. The author believes the polypus obstructed the passage of the ovum into the uterus. The Fallopian tube was not completely closed. Inasmuch as a portion of the tube and part of the muscular structure of the uterus had contributed to form the ovum-sac, this may be considered an interstitial or utero-tubal pregnancy. The second case is contributed by Dr. Uhlig, who found in the body of a woman, a)t. 60, a contracted cicatrix in the right lumbar region. The abdomen was distended, and above the right inguinal region a large, hard tumour was felt. The uterus was hypertrophied, and pressed towards the left side by a tumour attached to it, which was about the size of a child's head, and contained in its cavity numerous polypous excrescences of the mucous membrane; at the opening of the right tube was a polypus about the size of a fourpenn3r-piece, which, however allowed a fine sound to pass. A second opening was found just below the first, which permitted a sound to pass about an inch. This opening366 IIEPOIIT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. communicated with the tumour attached to the uterus. This tumour contained a mummy-liko embryo, the size of a 4- or /j-months fa3tus. It was greyish-yellow in colour, encrusted with chalky masses, together with the leather-like sac itself. Around this latter, wax-like i'at was deposited, which not only enveloped the foetus, but also the right tube aud the right ovary forming the tumour which pressed towards the left. The woman had borne a child about-26 years before; had several times miscarried, the last time in her 50th year, after v/hicli slie still men- struated regularly for some time. About 10 years before her death an abscess had formed, and discharged itself in the right inguinal region, aud so caused the cicatrix. 3.—Dr. Matthews Duncan's case of uterine hsematocele complicating extra-uterine gestation, occurred in a married woman, who had pre- viously had a family, the catamenia ceasing 14 weeks before death. JN'o other symptoms of pregnancy were present, and 1 days before death she expressed her positive disbelief of its existence. About a month before this menstruation began, and was accompanied by rigors, lumbar and hypogastric pain, chiefly on the right side, and bearing down. The discharge continued till 2 days before death, when all the painful symptoms had almost disappeared. The hsematocele suddenly ruptured, and peritonitis aud death rapidly followed. Physical examination during life revealed absolute dulness over a somewhat rectangular space above the right horizontal ramus of the pubis, measuring about 3 inches from above downwards. The uterus was anteflexed and hypertrophied, with very slight elongation of the cavity and enlarge- ment, but no softening of the cervix. Behind the cervix, and occupy- ing the posterior half of the upper region of the pelvis, there was great fulness, and in the centre a distinct tumour could be felt, with little tenderness. Autopsy.—G-eneral peritonitis. Above the right horizontal ramus of the pubes, and behind the abdominal wall, was a cavity filled with bloody fluid. This cavity extended from the brim of the pelvis on the right to the crest of the left ilium, but on the left side was covered anteriorly by a layer of coherent small intestines. The bloody fluid was mi;r«-peritone"al, the sac being formed by strong, but not old, peri- toneal adhesions of the abdominal walls, small intestines, and other neighbouring parts. The left prolongation of the sac opened into the general peritoneal cavity. On laying back the bowels a tumour the size of an orange, containing clotted blood aud a foetus of less tli.an 2 months' growth, was found lying between the upper half of the sacrum and the uterus, adherent to a fold of small intestine. A large rupture was found in the lower part of the anterior wall of the cyst. Prof Simpson records a case. A woman, ost. 3.3, who had borne 6 children, menstruated December 25th, 1862. Six weeks after, she suf- fered from symptoms of peritonitis. Similar attacks occurred up to her death, in April, 186.3. Dr. Simpson saw her on April 26th, suf- fering from a paroxysm of pain, and found tlie uterus enlarged; the sound passed about 5 inches. Behind the cervix a fluctuating tumour was felt, and the foetal lieart was heard over the abdomen. A ])uucture was made in the recto-vaginal space, in the hope of evacuating tiieUNUSUAL LOCALITY 01' PREGNANCY. 367 liquor amnii, and effecting the death and decomposition and expulsion of the fcetus. Two days after, she died, the sounds of the foetal heart continuing almost up to the last. Post-mortem.—Universal peritonitis. The fcetus lay in a pouch or sac formed by the enlarged uterus and broad ligaments, the pelvic walls, and the sigmoid flexure of the colon. The ovaries could not be traced. The foetus was about 6 months. The placenta, broad and thin, was attached to the posterior surface of the uterus and to the other parts forming the cyst. The uterus measured externally 7 inches in length and ^\ in breadth. Section of its wall measured i inch. The interior was covered all over, except at the fundus and cervix, with a thin layer of a dark, mottled, reddish, brain- like substance, which was readily scraped off. This consisted of areolar tissue, mingled with blood-vessels, amorphous matter, and oil-globules, Immediately beneath this lay the normal uterine tissue. 5. —A woman came under Dr. Day's care, at King's College Hospital, in her ninth pregnancy, with the history that an extra-uterine tumour had been discovered in her 6th labour, 4 years before, for which pre- mature labour was induced at the 8th month in her next pregnancy. On examination a hard, nodulated tumour, about the size of a goose's egg, was found in the recto-vaginal pouch, feeling like a detached fibrous growth from the uterus. Prom the size of the tumour it was thought advisable to bring on labour at 7-| months. An air-dilator was employed, and delivery completed in about 48 hours, by version. The placenta was universally adherent, and very friable. Post-partum haemorrhage occurred, and was soon checked, but it recurred 48 hours after delivery, and the patient sank under it. After death a foetus of 3—4 months was found in the recto-vaginal pouch, enclosed in a thin cyst, and attached to the peritoneum on the right side of the rectum. The Fallopian tube of the right side was attached to the base of the uterus, and contained an organized clot in its outer half The left tube was attached to the fundus. The points of interest in the case are—(i) The escape of the ovum from the Fallopian tube without causing death or giving rise to any marked symptoms. (2) The posi- tion of the Fallopian tubes. (3) The mode of inducing labour, which the author thinks should be performed gradually, by alternately dUating and relaxing the cervix. 6. —The special interest in Dr. Ott's case is the simultaneous existence of uterine and extra-uterine pregnancy. A woman, tet. 3 had borne one child 8 years before. Menstruation ceased 5 months. A tumour was then discovered in the right iliac region. Three months after, profuse haimorrhage and abortion took place, but the tumour continued. Eigors, with abdominal pain and vomiting, supervened, with hectic, emaciation' and deatli. After death 5 quarts of dark grumous matter were found in the abdomen, with an embryo of about 4 months lying loose in the fluid. The placenta was adherent in Douglas' sac, partly to the body of the uterus, partly to the right tube, which had burst near its middle.368 llJii'OllT ON MIDWII'EIIV, KTC. ANTEVEllSlOX 01' TIIU OBAVID UTEUIS. ^ Dr. V. I-Iiitor, " Ou Anteversion of the Gravid Uterus " (' Moii. J". Gob.,' Aug., 1863).—Dr. ]Iiitcr cites tlie various authors wlio have treated on antevcrsioa of the gravid womb, and relates cases IVoni Baudelocque, Madame Boivin, Hachmaun, AVilcke, and Godel'roy. A very constant symptom present in cases of retroversion of the uterus is retention of urine, and the absence of this in anteversion is a point in the diagnosis between the two conditions to which Dr. Iliiter alludes. He explains it by the circumstance that in anteversion the uterus, falling upon the bladder from above, leaves the entrances of the ureters free below the seat of pressure ; whilst in retroversion the uterus, rising from below, compresses the urethra or bladder below the entrance of the ureters. A fall bladder is a great obstacle to the occurrence of anteversion. Dr. Hiiter relates two cases. The following is a good example: • A very large and powerful woman had borne three children naturally. When four months pregnant, whilst washing the floor, she was seized with pain in the sacral region, and straining to void urine and fajces. This continued for two days, when profuse hajmorrhage from tlie vagina occurred. She was now seen by Dr. Hiiter. Expulsive pains persisted, the catheter drew ofi" very little urine ; palpation of the abdomen was difficult from the contraction of the abdominal muscles, but a hard tumour could be felt immediately above the s^'mphysis. The anterior wall of the vagina was deeply depressed by a smootli, hard, uniform tumour. The os uteri, with much difficulty, was felt high up and far back in the sacral cavity. The cervix was so bent upon the uterus that the lips of the os were in contact with the anterior wall of the vagina. Attempts were now made to raise the fundus from behind the symphysis, but with only partial success, though the more urgent symptoms were much relieved. The next day the patient was found in a semi-comatose condition, the bladder much distended, and hfemorrliage occurred. These symptoms passed off during the day, and from this time she recovered. During the remaining period of her pregnancy the patient suffered from frequent vomiting, and at irregular intervals from hydrorrhcea, but she passed through her labour naturally. EETEOVEESION 03? THE GBAVID WOMB. Saxinger, "Three Cases of Eetroversion of the Gravid Uterus" (Trag. Med. Wochenschr.,' 1864, No. 3). Atthill, L., M.B., " Case of Eetroversion of the Pregnant Uterus, with Prolonged Eetention in utero of a Blighted Ovum" ('Dublin Quarterly Journal,' Feb., 1864). The cases recorded by Siixiuger occurred in the clinique of Prof. Seyfert, and show the importance of carefully examining a ])atient ;)rr vafjinam and 2^'''' rectum who is suddenly attacked—especially if there be any antecetlent history of pregnancy—with lumbar and sacral pain, a feeling of fulness and weight in the pelvis, with retention of urine369 ABORTION. aud difficulty in defsccation. In all three cases the retroversion was first discovered in the hospital, the vaginal examination having been previously omitted. All tliree cases presented very similar symptoms All had reached the 3rd—4th montli of pregnancy. In all reposition of the uterus was effected without difficulty by pressing upwards on the fundus with two fingers in the rectum, but in only one case pregnancy progressed. Abortion followed in both the other cases, and one terminated fiitally with dysentery. In Dr. Atthill's case, the patient, after over-exerting herself in the fourth month of pregnancy, sufi"ered from sudden retention of urine. On examination, the uterus was found retroverted; reposition Avas eftected without difficulty. A month later, after a long walk, haemorrhage occurred with sharp pains, and continued at intervals for a fortnight. This ceased on the 28th of August, and from that time till November loth the patient enjoyed excellent health. On that day, severe hfemorrhage occurred", with expulsion of a foetus. This was blighted, and the author believes its development was arrested in the fourth month, at the time of the first hfemorrhage. During the three months it remained in utero the mother's health was very good, though slie noticed that she did not increase in size. An interesting point in the case is the cessation of obstinate nausea, first on the uterus being retro- verted, aud secondly on the occurrence of the first haemorrhage. ABOBTIOir. Hiiter, Dr. V., " On Habitual Abortion, with Flexion of the Uterus" ('Mon. f. Geb.,' Sept., 1864). Dr. Hiiter points out the importance of ascertaining, if possible, the cause of each abortion, and maintains that in a great majority of cases this will be found to depend upon flexion of the uterus. He recom- mends that a very careful examination should be made in all cases after the occurrence of an abortion, and also in the second or third month of pregnancy after the first or second abortion, if no sufficient cause can be ascertained. Scanzoni ('Lehrbuch der Geburt.'), records that in 26 women in which flexion of the uterus existed 44 abortions occurred. Tlie author fully admits that abortion does not necessarili/ occur with flexion, for Hoist ('Mon. f. Geb.,' 4, 186.3, P' 303), records six cases of undoubted flexion without abortion. Dr. Hiiter relates very fully cases of which the following is a type. A patient aborted four times, between the 7th and loth week, without any apparent cause. After the fourth abortion an examination revealed anteversion of the uterus, and this condition existing at the 5th week of the fifth pregnancy, mechanical treatment, by manual reposition of the flexed uterus, was adopted, with perfect rest in bed during the second and third months. This resulted in normal gestation and labour. Dr. Hiiter maintains—■ I. That a disposition to abort in consequence of one or more abortions does not exist, but that every abortion has its own special cause, which cannot always be discovered. 2. That the flexion of the uterus disappears during the progress of the abortion, on whicli ac- 21370 UErOKT ON MIDWIFEEY, ETC. couut tlie diiignosis of the iuflected uterus is only possible before the begiuuing of the abortion, or some time after its completion. 3. The abortion is not caused by the flexion of the uterus ou itself, but by the accompanying version of this organ. 4. The treatment, therefore, during i)regiiancy must be directed against the ante- or retro-version. 5. In the third month the fundus uteri reaches above the level of the pelvic brim. 6. Dissection of the uterus in women who have suf- I'ercd from flexion always shows chronic hyperemia, aflecting the mucous membrane and parenchyma, and the hypera;mia is much increased by pregnancy, the return of venous blood is impeded, and congestion thus results. Tiiis is probably the proximate cause of abortion. MISSED LABOUE. McClintock, Dr., "Observations on Missed Labour" ('Dublin Quart. Jour.,' Feb. and May, 1864). — Under the term "missed labour " have been classed certain very rare cases of utei-ine pregnancy in which, through failure of parturient action, the foetus has been retained in utero for some indefinite period beyond the term of normal gestation. Very few undoubted instances of this occurrence have been recorded, and in every case the foetus has apparently been dead at the time when labour should have taken place, and the liquor amnii has generally escaped at this time, or previously. All the cases have been very similar in their general features, though differing in detail. If, as usually happens, the membranes have been ruptured about the period at which labour should occur, a profuse putrid discharge soon follows, and continues for months or years, until all the soft parts of the fostus have been decomposed and expelled. During this period, pelvic or uterine inflammation, or symptoms of general septicaemia, may result. In one case, i-elated by Voudcrfer, after the lapse of eleven years from the time of expected labour, the woman died with symptoms of purulent infection. After death, the remains of a putrid foetus were found in utcro. In some very rare cases, where the membranes have not rup- tured and the entrance of air has been prevented, the foetus appears to have been retained many years without undergoing any marked decom- position. In one case, related by Dr. Cheston (' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' 1814), the ftetus was perfectly preserved for Jifiy-two years. The whole of the foetal bones are A'ery rarely expelled by the uterus. They are either encysted 01 masse and retained in ulcro, as in tlie case last mentioned, or the uterus relieves itself by ulceration, as in Dr. Oldham's case. The duration of life, dating from the time when labour should have occurred, has varied in eleven cases from three months to 52 ye.irs. In the treatment. Dr. McCliutock urges the importance of early .and gradual removal of the foetal remains after dilatation of the os, and cites a case, reported by Schulz, in which a woman underwent a series of operations at the end of ten years from the time Avhen labour was missed, by which one hundred and twenty pieces of bones were removed from the uterus, with.a successful result. Any operation would, how-371 MECHANISM OF DELIVEUY. ever, be coutra-indicated in the presence of acute symptoms of hysteritis or peritonitis, or with probable ulceration in the uterine walls, or, lastly, where the case has been of long standing, and no symptoms exist of intolerance of the uterine tumour. The case related by Dr. McClintock was a large flabby woman, set. 45, who had given birth to twelve living children, then a dead child at full term, soon after which she conceived again. Gestation proceeded naturally till about the 7th month, when the foetus probably died. Symptoms of labour set in at the end of the ninth mouth, but passed ofl^ without expulsion of the foetus. Five iceehs after this she was seized with severe pains and hajmorrhage, and a foetal bone was removed from the vagina by the practitioner in attendance. Sixty-two weeks after this she came under the author's care, and during the greater part of this interval a horribly offensive and very profuse vaginal discharge was going on, and some few bones had come away, but hsemorrhage was absent, and she was not aware of the placenta having been expelled. She w^is admitted into a hospital, and, after eight attempts had been made to remove the bones,—of which about sixty pieces were extracted,—she died with symptoms of pyaemia. No post-mortem examination was obtained. MECHANISM OF DELITEET. Hodge, Dr. H. L., " On the Mechanism of Labour" (' Principles and Practice of Obstetrics,' 1864). Dr. Hodge describes four parallel planes through which he believes the head passes in its course to the floor of the pelvis :—i. The brim of the pelvis. 2. A plane running from the sub-pubic ligament to the middle of the second bone of the sacrum. 3. A line on the level with , the spines of the ischia, where the cavity becomes rapidly contracted, and where "rotation" begins. 4. A line extending round the ex- tremity of the coccyx as a centre. Prom a consideration of these points Dr. Hodge believes that the top of the head descends in a straight line to the axis of the superior strait until it reaches the floor of the pelvis ; that when it is as low as the coccyx the base of the cranium will reach above the level of the sub-pubic ligament; the head, therefore, has to depress the coccyx before the base can pass under the arch. Having done so, the nape of the neck remains directly under the pelvis, and the rest of the head describes the segment of a circle around the sub-pubic ligament as a centre, so that the true axis of the pelvis is formed by a line drawn from the centre of the superior strait through the centre of the radii of a circle thus formed, which line will be straight from the first to the second parallel plane, but curved from that point downwards. In tracing the head through the pelvis Dr. Hodge does not adopt M. Cazeaux' divisions, viz., those of flexion, descent, extension, rotation and external rotation, but recognises five periods:—(i) The passage of the head through the superior strait and through tlie os ixteri. (2) The descent through the cavity of the pelvis {.]) The passage through the inferior strait. (4) That throu"-h theIIEPOIIT ON MIDWIl'EUy, KTC. 372 03 externum. (5) Delivery of the body of the fcotus. As the head passes through the pelvis in the first position, i. e. where the occiput js directed towards the left auterior inclined plane, and tiie os frontis towards tlie right posterior inclifted plane, Dr. Hodge believes the middle of the sagittal suture to be iu tlic centre of the pelvis, and tiie head iu a state of semiflexion, so that the posterior fontanelle is lower in the pelvis than the anterior, and the forehead is above the sacro-iliac joint; -whereas the fontanelles are generally described as level, and tlie forehead as opposed to the sacro-iliac symphysis. Under the powerful contractions of the \iterus, the membranes rupture, the head becomes completely flexed, tlie chin being in contact with the sternum and descending through the os uteri. The posterior part of the sagittal suture now occupies the centre of the pelvis, or, should the resistance have been great, the posterior fontanelle will be found here, while the right parietal protuberance will correspond to the right, and the left to the left acetabulum. The cervieo-bregmntic diameter is parallel to the left oblique, and the bi-parietal to the right oblique diameter of the pelvis. In thus describing the position of the foetal head, Dr. Hodge difTers from Naegele and his followers, and believes that their error has arisen from regarding the os vagins3 as the centre of the pelvis, instead of being, as it is, in the anterior portion. The head, having passed through the os \;teri iu this position, returns to a state of semiflexion, and as it descends in the pelvis becomes rotated in the following manner:—The occipital protuberance strikes upon the left anterior inclined plane, and is turned forwards and upwards, while the forehead malies a correspond- ing turn in a contrary direction, and, being extended, presses upou the coccyx; that bone yields,and thus descent, rotation, and extension, are going on at the same time. If a careful examination be made as the head is passing through the interior strait it will be found that the pos- terior foutanelle is in the centre covered by the perinjpum, the bi- parietal corresponds to the transverse, the cervico-bregmatic is parallel to the antero-posterior diameter, in fact, precisely as the head entered the superior strait, the only difference being that at the brim the liead was semiflexed, while here it is partially extended. The subsequent passage through the vaginal canal is that of continued extension ; the rectum, the anus, the perinaeum, each iu its turn bearing the brunt of the downward pressure, until the direction of the orifice of tlie vagina is changed from forwards and downwards to an almost horizontal position. The head having passed, external rotation or restitution takes place. ABIsOEMAL COIfDOTIONS OF THE PEI.VIS (iMPEDTITa DEIITEEX). Barnes, Robert, M.D., " On Spondylolisthesis, with an account of a case of Pelvic Contraction from tliis afTcction in which Premature Labour was induced by the Author's Method" (' Trans. Obst. Soc.,' vol. 5, 1865). a- ■ e Under the name of spondylolisthesis, Kiliau described an affection of the spine, the most interesting character of which is the sliding down- ward of the 4th or -jth lumbar vertebra into the true pelvis, so as toABXOllMAL CONDITIONS OP THE PELVIS. .37-3 contract the space at the brim aud in the cavity. Kiliau based liis description* upon three pelves. One of these he saw in tlie Matcrnite, at Brussels, in 1836; the second is preserved at Prague; the third ia known as the Paderborn pelvis. In all these cases the Caisareau section liad been performed. This deformity has not been hitherto recognised or described in this country. Dr. Barnes now gives a brief account of its histoi-y, and relates some of the recorded cases.—(i) In the Brussels case tiie pelvis was quite normal, but the conjugate diameter was con- tracted to 3" 3"' by the falling of the lumbar vertebrjs in front of the sacrum, so that the promontory was formed by the 4th lumbar. (2) In the Prague case the patient died of haemorrhage after the Csesarean section, in 1849. '^^^^ 4^'^ ^"'l 5*^ lumbar vertebraj had sunk so low in the cavity of the pelvis that the promontory was formed, not by the junction of the 5th lumbar vertebra with the sacrum, but by the upper edge of the 4th. (3) In the Paderborn case the ist and 3rd preg- nancies terminated in premature labour, the second by the Ctesarean section, and the 4th in death after the Csesarean section. The body of this patient was so bent forwards that she resembled a quadruped in her gait. The other cases are recorded by Eobert, of Coblentz, Spaeth, Brauu, Birnbaum, Hecker, Breslau (two cases),t and Lambl. In Dr. Barnes's case the patient, ret. 34, had had five children, and four years back an abortion. The first three labours were natural. In the fourth, which occurred seven years before, the midwife attending " had some trouble in gaining the head," and the patient complained of being severely pressed upon the back. From that time she has been unable to stoop, aud has no strength in the left side. She had fever, described as rheumatic, following this labour; was much blistered to relieve the pain, and was admitted into the London Hospital, where she remained as in- or out-patient fifteen mouths. Some degree of para- plegia followed, and in the fifth labour, five years back, the child was stillborn, dying in its birth from obstruction to the passage of the shoulders. She reckoned that she was now 3^ months pregnant; suffers from great pain in the back, and cannot stoop. A marked depression of the last lumbar vertebra inwards was found on examination, above this, the three next lumbar vertebraj projected outwards in a curve ; the riglit hip was higher than the left; she had no power to bend the spine, and in order to stoop was compelled to find a rest for her hands, and then to bend upon the hip-joints. Neither the true promontory formed by the sacrum, nor the assumed false one formed bv the lumbar vertebra?, could be reached by the finger, and pressure on the sacrum gave paui. From the nature of the case, induction of labour was advised at the end of seven months' gestation. This was accordin"-ly effected by Dr. Barnes's method, and in an hour uterine action was excited aud the cervix nearly fully expanded. The membranes were then punctured, but, finding the head did not advance after waitiuo- * ' De Spondylolistliesi gravissimcB pelvangustia), causa nuper cktoctn, Comraentatio Anatom|co-ol,stctr.cia,' Uonna-, 1853; and ' Schilderungen noucr IJeckenformen' Jliinulieiiii, 1854. "jiuiwu, t A summary of Brcslau's second case will be found in the ' Year Book' fcr 1S62.KEPOUT on MlDWIl'EUY, ETC. three hours, tlio forceps was applied. Moderate traction was made, but without success. Chloroform was then given, and delivery completed by bimanual version. The extraction of the head occupied ten minutes; and although the child was not dead when born, the heart soon ceased to beat and it could not be restored. Its development indicated eight and a half months. On the left side of the head tliere was a scalp- bruise. The uterus contracted well, the whole operation having occu- pied 5 hours. Teverish symptoms, with abdominal pain and tender- ness of the lumbar region, appeared 2 days after, but the patient ulti- mately recovered. The conjugate diameter is estimated by the author at .3" 6"'. The pelvis itself seemed normal, there being no evidence of disease of the bones elsewhere than in the part indicated; and had the patient not miscalculated her time, a living child might doubtless liave been born. In considering the nature and modes of origin of spondylolisthesis, it is important to distinguish this from the much less rare contraction of the pelvis caused by curvature of the spine. Such a case may be allied in form, but yet difier in nature from spondylolisthesis, the essential feature of which is an actual dislocation, with or without subsequent anchylosis of the lumbar vertebraj forwards aud downwards into the cavity of the pelvis. Kilian assigns as the first condition of its origin a pathological process, the expression of some antecedent dyscrasia, probably scrofulous or tuberculous; as the second condition, a local softening between the last vertebrse and the sacrum, and in the liga- ments, attended or followed by inflammation. He denies that the de- formity is of congenital origin. On the other hand, 3 of the cases here cited go far to prove the opposite of this, since in these there was no trace of any local disease. In one case (Braun's) a supernumerary ver- tebral arch and spinous process existed between the sacrum and last lumbar vertebra. The cause of the development of this additional vertebra is not yet explained. Mr. Huxley states that a sixth lumbar vertebra sometimes occurs in man; and as this has been observed apart from any distortion, it may be inferred that it was not the result of an- tecedent disease. I3ut the researches of Dr. Lambl appear to suggest, if not to prove, the hypothesis that the formation of a sixth lumbar ver- tebra may be the consequence of disease of the spinal column, as if the developmental force in early life were exerted to throw out a new pro- tection for the spinal cord, to compensate for the loss or deficiency of parts of the natural A'ertebra. He examined five pelves exemplifying spondylolisthesis, and discovered in all distinct traces of hydrorachis. His conclusions on this subject are—(i) There is lumbo-sacral iiydro- rachis, which constitutes the first condition of a deformation of the fifth lumbar vertebra. (2) There follows a lengthening and thiunmg of the vertebral arches and a widening of the canal. This gives rise to a displacement of the articular processes, and the inferior oblique pro- cesses undergo a torsion of their articular surfaces, which favours their sliding through the oblique processes of the sacrum. (3) Under tliese circumstances the strong hold which the body of the vertebra has m its articular processes is lost, and it acquires a disposition to slip down.ABNOllMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PELVIS. 375 (4) The special size, compressibility, and extensibility of the interver- tebral cartilage of the lumbo-saeral joint, to which the greater mobility of this part of the spinal column is due, cause the lumbar vertebra, as soon as its articular attachments are lost, to glide do\yn under the weight of the body; and this is always forwards, the direction being determined by the shape of the body, which is higher in front, lower behind; by the normal anterior curvature of the lumbar vertebra, and by the anterior obliquity of the articular surface of the sacrum. (5) In other cases the attachments of the articular processes may be abnor- mally modified. This happens through the formation and defective development of a supernumerary vertebra, whicli may occur in com- bination with a foetal hydrorachis. An incomplete intercalary vertebra forms between the last lumbar and the first sacral vertebrae a wedge, as it were, driven in from behind, which thrusts the lumbar vcrteb.'a forwards. Under this motion the intervertebral cartilage is inordiuarily compressed, and at last its structure destroyed. The complete destruc- tion of the intervertebral cartilage brings the bared surfiices of the bones into contact, whence other changes ensue—e.g. rounding oif of the fore edge of the sacrum; compression of the opposed surfaces of the lumbar vertebra and sacrum; wedging in of the edge of the sacrum into the lower surface of the lumbar vertebra, or synostosis of the joint by means of a more or less complete fusion of the dislocated vertebra with the sacrum. (6) Consequent upon this dislocation there occurs a torsion of the pelvic axis. The plane is thrown more nearly into the vertical direction, and thus is caused the extreme prominence of tlie abdomen and tlie overhanging of the pregnant uterus, which have been remarked in cases of spondylolisthesis. Breslau and Barnes, however, dissent from these conclusions; and the observations of the latter show that the hiatus lumbalis, corresponding closely with the figures given by Lambl as indicating spina bifida, is not uncommon. It occurs fre- quently without displacement or deformity; it certainly is no constant mark of antecedent spina bifida. Again, the intercalary vertebra occurs quite independently of spina bifida; and, lastly, in none of the nume- rous cases of spina bifida examined by the author was there any spon- dylolisthesis or other lumbo-sacral or pelvic deformity. Eokitansky also differs from Lambl, and attributes the spondylolisthesis to primaiy atrophy of the intervertebral cartilage. The author concludes that the cases hitherto recorded are not sufficient to justify any absolute, much less exclusive, theory of the mode of origin of spondylolisthesis. (3) That, reasoning from the known cases of this condition, and from the surgical liistory of dislocation of the vertebrae in the dorsal and cervical regions, it cannot be denied that vertebral dislocation may occur from other than intra-uterine causes. (3) That, admitting the possibility of spondylolisthesis occurring as a consequence of spina bifida, in "the mode Lambl describes, it must also be admitted that it may arise as a consequence of osteomalacic, scrofulous, or inflammatory disease of the bodies of the vertebra), and from direct injury. The history of the cases here collected show the formidable nature of true spondylolisthesis when pregnancy occurs. Of the 12 cases men-376 11EP0K.T ON MIDWU'ERYj ETC. tioncd there is iio obstetric liistory of .3. Of the remaining 9 one only besides Dr. Barnes's patient recovered after ceplmlotripsy. Tlie obstetric difficulty occasioned appears to be twofold. In the first place, there is the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra overhanging the pelvic brim, and partially or entirely fallen into the pelvic cavity. Secondly, there is a great deviation from the normal axis of the brim. The ])rojection of the lumbar vertebra; also causes an important deviation from the normal shape and position of the uterus; it throws the fundus so much for- wards that the uterus is made to lie across the pubes like a sac. The obstacle presented to the entry of the head into the pelvis is far more serious than in simple contraction of the conjugate diameter from undue prominence of the promontory. In this latter case, unless the contraction be very great, it is generally possible to bring the head through by the forceps, by turning, or by craniotomy; but in spondy- lolisthesis, if the deformity be very marked, and especially if one or more vertebrso have fallen into the^ pelvis, delivery by turning, even after craniotomy, will be very likely impossible. Hence, in advanced cases there is no resource but the Caesarean section. It is needless to point out that the indication is decided for the induction of premature labour whenever this can be performed. ABNOEMAL CONDITIONS Or THE UTERUS. Birubaum, Dr., " Two Cases of Variety of Perm in. the Uterus with Pregnancy" (' Mon. f. Geb.,' 1863, suppl. Heft). Dr. Birubaum (Cologne) communicates to the Obstetrical Societj"-in Berlin two cases of varieties of form in the uterus with pregnancy. Both cases wei-e under observation at the same time for some weeks. Case I.—Twin pregnancy, with uterus bicoriiis uuicoUis or acuatus. Interesting, because of the distinctness with which the form presented and developed itself. A primipara, a;t. 26, strong and healthy; at the end of pregnancy the greatest prominence of the uterus was in the umbilical region, -which M'as very much pointed and protruded; the circumference of the body here was 44". Above this tiie uterus presented a very marked saddle-like depression, so that the Avhole uterus was obliquely heart-shaped. One division of the uterus passed up from the depression high up into the left hypochoudrium, ending in a more pointed fundus. A second division could be traced far up into the right hypochoudrium, but this did not rise so high as the left division, and hence the fundus was broader. The uterus-walls were thin and very moveable, and especially in the navel region, where the foetal movements could be easily recognised. Poetal heart-souuds were heard on the left side, from the anterior superior spine of the ilium up to the lower border of the hypochondrium. The great quantity of liquor amiiii prevented the discovery of the foatal part.", but the presence of twins—one in the right horn, the other in the left—could not be doubted. After the escape of the liquor amnii the uterine contractions began to empty the right horn first, making the form of377 PLUKAL BIUTHS. tlie wLole still more remarkable. The expulsion of the first child was very painful and slow, in spite of energetic contractions. The head changed from the 4th to the ist position. A living girl, weighing 5^ lbs., was born. The second child followed in ten minutes, the left horn of the uterus coming more into the centre, and contract- ing powerfully. The head rapidly changed from the 3rd to the 2nd position, and the child was also a girl, weighing lbs. The removal of the placenta required the introduction of the hand. It was single, with common chorion and divided amnion. The uterus maintained— as long as it was observed in the puerperal period—its broad and centrally indented form. Case 2.—The pregnancy Avas simple, but the form of the uterus was much more striking and peculiar. The woman was a tall, muscular primipara, who had always been healthy, and first menstruated in her 16th year. The fundus of the uterus was felt in the median line, a hand's breadth above the projecting umbilicus. A complete division of the uterus was recognised into a large, lower, but broadly arched part, passing to the left, and a smaller one, ball-shaped, and passing over the first obliquely to the right. The first division was estimated to be of the size of a uterus in the eighth month of pregnancy, the other of about four months. The right division was nearly empty, although foetal movements could be sometimes felt in it. The head lay in the lower segment, which was much thinned ; the cervix shortened, and directed backwards and to the right. When labour commenced both divisions of the uterus contracted uniformly, the double form thus being more marked. The membranes Avere punctured. Labour was still very painful and tedious, the pains being strong, with little or no advance. The fundus of the uterus appeared to expand obliquely from both sides. The patient Avas bled, and the forceps applied. This was accompanied with much hasmorrhage; the cord was curled three times 'round the child's neck and once round the body ; the child, a boy, weighed 6-5 lbs., and was stillborn. The placenta was removed by manual extraction. The irregular form of the uterus was observed during the puerperal period. PLT7Ei.L BIUTHS. Dr. Abarbanell (' Mon. f. Geb.,' Oct., 1S64), related to the Obstetri- cal Society of Berlin a case of twin labour protracted during three days —the first child was born on the 236th day after conception—and in the discussion which followed. Prof. Martin objected to the practice, followed in England, of immediately delivering the second child, and stated that, as a consequence, post-partum hemorrhage was not uncom- mon. Dr. Kristeller considered it a favorable event if the expulsion of the two children did not follow too rapidly; the uterus could then more slowly contract, and gain power for the second delivery. Dr. Winckel dissented from this view, and mentioned cases in which severe hajmorrhage had occurred in the interval between the birth of the two878 llEl'ORT ON JIIDWIl'EIlYj ETC. children, but related ouo case in vvliich the second child was not born imtil six weeks after the first. abkohmal presentations. Dr. Christie, " Observations on Shoulder Presentations of the Fcetus " (* Ed. Med. Jour.,' July, 1864). Dr. A. E. Simpson, " A Case of Complicated Labour, with remark.^ on the Postural Treatment of Prolapsus Punis, &c." (' Ed. Med. Jour.,' April, 1864). « Dr. Christie directs attention to a class of cases which appear to have hitherto been little noticed. Naegele* divided shoulder presentations, according to the order of their occurrence, into two, viz., the first position of the shoulder, in which the back of the child, compared with its anterior surface, is turned more than twice as often to the anterior wall of the mother's abdomen; and the second, in which the same surface is turned towards the posterior Avail. In either of these positions Naegele teaches that the head lies towards the one or the other iliac fossae, and the body in an oblique direction over to the other side, the presenting shoulder forming the most depending part of the fcetus. In the great majority of cases this is true; but some cases occur in which the shoulder is the presenting j)art, and yet the body of the foetus does not lie in the transverse direction to the extent generally assumed. It may be stated that wherever the long axis of the foetus corresponds to the long axis of the uterus, no matter Avhether it be the vertex, the face, the breech, or the feet, which present, experience shows that labour, as a rule, terminates without any in- terference ; and " in all cases of shoulder presentation, in order to^ make labour possible, the foetus, whether matiu-e or not, must under- go a change into the longitudinal position or be subjected to dismember- ment. This may be effected iu the foUowiug ways:—(i) By rectifi- cation of the foetal position; (2) by spontaneous turning; (3) by spontaneous evolution; (4) by the technical turning by the head, the breech, one or both feet and one or both knees; and (j) by the de- capitation of the foetus, or by embryotomy or its evisceration." t But another means of effecting this has been almost wholly over- looked. Smellie,^ in speaking of the difficulties which may be en- countered in presentation of the shoulder, contrasts the round form of the uterus, contracted close to the fostus iu the usual condition, with another state of the organ in which it resembles " a long sheath," with the child lying in it "lengthways," the head being " reflected over the pubes to the right shoulder and back, and the feet and breech stretched * 'Lcbrbuch der Geburtslmlfc Heidelberg,' 1844, p. 222. t Uraun, ' Lebrbuch der Gcburtsbiilfe,' Wien, 1857, i). sy;. X 'A Treatise on tbc Tlieory and Trnctice of Midwifery,' 4th edit., vol. i P- 334-ABNOllMAL PllESENTATIONS. 379 up to the fundus," and thus describes a position of the fcstus in which it may be expelled by the natural efforts without anything resembling spontaneous evolution or the other processes alluded to by Braun. Dr. Christie describes two cases, in both of which this position of the foetus was observed. The first case happened in a twin labour. One child had been delivered naturally, and the left arm of a second was found prolapsed into the vagina with the corresponding shoulder at the brim of the pelvis. The right hand was introduced for the purpose of turn- ing, when the head of the child was found to lie forwards over the horizontal ramus of the left os pubis, while the neck was so bent that it lay in contact at the same time with the right shoulder. The breech and feet were also turned upwards towards the fundus ; and the uterus contracted so closely round the body of the child, "in the form of along sheath," that neither the feet nor ankle could be reached. An attempt was made to push up the presenting part, but the shoulder, neck, and head, all compressed together, " much in the form of the breech," came rapidly down to the perinaeum, swept over it in half an hour, and passed through the outlet of the pelvis " with the shoulder jammed against the arch of the pubes, until the upper part of the trunk, with the head turned over towards the right shoulder, and, as it Avere, imbedded in the neighbouring parts, was born, when the rest of the body followed in the usual mode." The child was dead, and for a twin was large, weighing 6 lbs. In the second case, the left shoulder also presented, with the arm and funis prolapsed, and great difficulty was experienced in the introduction of the hand from the close contraction of the uterus round the foetus in the same sheath-like form as before. The right knee was at length brought down, and traction made with a blunt hook in the direction of the axis of the pelvic inlet. The foot was thus gained, the shoulder was now pushed up, and traction made on the de- livered leg, by which version was ultimately effected. Delivery was completed with some difliculty, but the woman recovered without a bad symptom. Dr. A, R. Simpson records a case in which the prolapsed funis was successfully replaced by placing the patient on her knees and elbows, as first recommended by Dr. Thomas (' Trans of ]S"ew York Acad, of Med.,' 1858, vol. 2). The patient was a multipara, with a very relaxed and dilatable cervix; the placenta was placed very low down on the uterine wall, and the umbilical cord, which was 21 inches in length, was inserted into the placenta within an inch of that pai-t of its border. As this mode of practice seems but little known, it may be worth re- calling Dr. Thomas's conclusions, which are—First, that the causes of the persistence of prolapse of the funis, whatever may at first have produced it, reduce themselves to two—the slippery condition of the displaced part and the inclined plane offered it by the uterus by which to roll out of its cavity. Second, that the only rational mode of treat- ment would be to invert this plane, and thus turn to advantage, not only it, but the lubricity of the cord which ordinarily constitutes the main barrier to our success. This can be readily accomplished by placing the woman on her knees, with the head down \ipon the bed.HEPORT on JIIDWIFKRY, tTC. 3S0 If it be remembered that the axis of tlio uterus is a Hue running from the umbilicus to the coccyx, it will be seen that by adopting the prone position this axis will be entirely inverted. DISEASES, ETC., OF TI[E CKILD IMPEDING DELIVEET. Dr. Gervis and Dr. Braxton Hicks, " Eeport upon the Case of a Child impeding Delivery " (' Obst. Soc. Trans.,' vol. 4, p. 284). Extreme difficulty was experienced in tlie birth of this child after the passage of the head, owing to a great enlargement of the abdomen. Delivery was finally completed by traction, and the woman recovered well. The following report is given of the organs of generation :—The labia majora were very small. The vulva and vagina were wanting. The clitoris was prominent, and the urethra opened at its extremity. The uterus was greatly extended, globular in form, and contained about 15 oz. of flaky serous fluid. It presented two distinct cornua, which were closed at their free extremities, nor could any fimbria or other evidence of a Fallopian tube be discovered on either side. The ovaries were about half an inch in length, and attached to the side of the uterus at the base of each coruu. The uterus was divided internally into two cavities by a vertical septum presenting near the fundus, an oval opening permitting communication between the two sides, but there was no trrace of cither os or cervix, the double uterine cavitv being thus completely closed. There was no indication of au anus, and the rectum terminated in a cul-de-sac attached to the posterior part of the uterus. PLACENTA PBJEVIA. Dr. Greenhalgh, " On Placenta Previa " (' Obst, Soc. Trans.,' vol. 5, p. 140). Dr. Greenhalgh first alludes to the great mortality in cases of placenta prjevia, both to mothers and children, i in 4I of the former aud about two thirds of the latter, which he attributes mainly to the severe and repeated haemorrhages, to the delay in eftecting the delivery, and to the mode of turning usually resorted to in these cases. He then gives the history of 24 cases occurring in his own practice, and refers to statistics to show that the expulsion of the child generally takes place before the full period of utero-gcstation, premature labour being the rule and not the exception; that nature, unaided, frequently ter- minates the delivery with safety botii to mother and child; that complete and partial artificial separation of the placenta before the birth of the child has failed in many cases to arrest the hemorrhage ; and that these modes of practice and turning had proved most unsatis- factory. A close observation of the way in which nature terminates these cases with safety to mother and child is insisted upon, and the result of his observations enables the author to confidently recommend the following plan of treatmeut:—First, that in case of hemorrhage, whether profuse or not, occurring after the second month of utcro- gestation, and ascertained to bo duo to placenta prrevia, artificial pre-UUPTURE OF THE UlTiRUS. 381 mature labour should be induced at once or as soon as the patient's condition -will admit of it. Secondly, that in order to effect this with- out hjemorrhage, an air-ball, covered with siwngio-piline, should be passed empty into the vagina, and then inflated so as effectually to fill the passage, while a bandage is placed firmly round the abdomen, and ergot and borax are to be administered in repeated doses. Dr. Greenhalgh concludes by strongly condemning the use of hsemostatic remedies, by which he is convinced many lives are lost. In the dis- cussion which followed, Dr. Barnes objected to the use of a vaginal plug. It acted by exciting uterine contractions if the uterus Avas excitable; but in the worst cases the uterus was paralysed, and in these the plug was useless. If, in combination with rupturing the membranes, the placenta Avas detached from the cervical zone, the cervix then artificially expanded by means of his cervical dilators, and the bimanual mode of version, as practised by Dr. Hicks, resorted to, a much greater measure of success would be obtained than by any other special method. ETJPTTJEE 01' THE UTEETIS. Dr. Crichton, " Case of Rupture of the Uterus in which Gas- trotomy was successfully performed" ('Edin. Med. Jour.,' Aug., 1864). The carefully compiled statistics of Dr. Trask, of New York, give great encouragement in undertaking the apparently hopeless operation of gastrotomy in cases of rupture of the uterus ; and yet since the date of their publication in 1856 the first successful case recorded as having occurred in this country is that of Dr. Crichton. The patient, fet. 28, had been delivered by the forceps in her first three labours, none of the children surviving, from the pressure on the head necessary to effect delivery. Yvom the great projection of the promontory of tlie sacrum induction of labour was advised in her 4th pregnancy between the 7tb and 8th month, but not carried out. After being in strong labour for some hours two unsuccessful attempts were made to deliver, first by the forceps, and afterwards by turning. A large opiate was then given, but shortly after, during a severe pain, the uterus ruptured. The position of the child could not be ascertained, but the unequal nodu- lated surface of the abdomen, the complete recession of the ])resentin"- part, the free discharge of blood from the vagina, and the total cessa° tion of labour-pains, which had previously been very severe and con- stant, left no doubt as to the rupture and the escape of the child into the abdominal cavity. Gastrotomy was proposed, but, from the non- consent of the patient, was delayed 14 hours. The operation was per- formed in the usual manner. The child was foiind lying with its head downwards, resting on the firmly contracted uterus, with the placenta loose under it. The rupture was transverse, about the junction of the fundus with the cervix. Several large clots were removed, and some bloody fluid sponged out. The wound was closed by twisted sutures on long acupressure needles passed througli the peritoneum, and warm- water dressing applied. Jaundice, with vomitiug and tympanitis•5<^* UEPOIIT ON JIIDWIFERY, KTC. occurred on the 3rd day, but the patient eventually made a cood recovery. ° I/ACEIIATIOX OP THE PEEIN^UM. Dr. Eobhison, " The Treatment of Laceration of the Perinajum into the Eectiim during Parturition" ('Med. Times,' vol. 2, p. 166). Dr. Eobinson records a case of severe recto-vaginal laceration, in •which rapid recovery took place, with good luiion of the parts. This was obtained by keeping the patient strictly at rest, witli the knees bound together, administering opium, and adopting a limited diet, con- taining very little solid food. In this case the rectum and vagina were laid open by a rent which was several inches in length. ° OPERATIONS m MIDWIFERY. TIfDXrCTIOK OP PEEirATUUE LABOUR. Prof. Brauu and Dr. Kiihn, "On the Induction of Premature Labour" ('AVienerMed. Wochensch.,' Feb., 1863). Prof. Simpson and Dr. Moir, ibid. ('Edin. Med. Jour.,' Mar., 1864). Dr. Kiihn records the cases of induction of premature labour which have occurred in the practice of Prof Braun, at the Vienna Lying-in Hospital during the last three years. Of the 20 cases, puncture of the membranes with the English elastic catheter or Simpson's sound was adopted in 4; intra-uterine catheterism with the elastic catheter or catgut bougie in 12 cases ; puncturing the membranes with catheterism, twice; intra-uterine injection with the apparatus of Larazewitsch in 2 cases. The causes which necessitated the operation were as follows :— Contracted pelvis, 9 cases; urtemia, 4 cases; dyspnoea from Bright's disease, 2 cases; and once for each of the following—tetanic spasms, pneumonia, chronic bronchitis, acute tuberculosis, chronic tuberculosis. The operation was performed at the following periods:—i in 23rd week of pregnancy; i in 24th; i in 29th ; 3 in 30th ; 6 in 32nd; 2 in 34th; 2 in 35th; 3 in 36th; and i in 37th. In 13 cases the child was born alive, but in 6 of these it died shortly after; in 7 the child was born dead. Of the women, 8 recovered perfectly; i died 8 weeks after, of phthisis; i recovered from the operation, but was attacked with acute inflammation of the knee; 10 died after labour—4 of puer- peral fever, 4 of Bright's disease, i of acute prrttiisis, i from h.-emor- rhage. Of the difi"crent methods, tiic preference is given to catheterism —Dr. Simpson's mode—especially in tliose cases where no dilatation of the 03 is to be detected. The catheter is introduced Avith compara- tive ease through the long, soft, narrow cervix, and after the stilette is withdrawn puslied up on either side towards the fundus of the uterus, between it and the membranes, and left lying tliere. In the 12 cases383 OPERATIONS IN MIDWIKEUY. •where it was employed the first pains supervened, on an average, ^-J- hours ; the child was born, on an average, .30 hours after its introduction. The operation was in no single instance followed by hajmorrhage, great ■care being taken to avoid the placenta. Puncture of the membranes with some blunt instrument is rather to be recommended in cases where the cervix is shortened, or where the os is dilated enough to admit of the introduction of the finger, e.g. in cases of contracted pelvis with head presentation. The intra-uterine injection is longer in operation than the catheter. Prof. Braun advises that the opening through which the water is injected shall be at the end of the catheter, and not at its side, in order that the stream of water may penetrate further; and states that the caoutchouc bladder of Lazarewitsch loses much of its injecting power by being softened with the warm water, so that it is not to be preferred to the common enema syringe. Dr. Moir thinks that the dilatation of the os uteri should be effected very slowly and gradually. He separates the membranes from within the os uteri by means of the forefinger passed within the os and turned round, so as at once to separate the membranes and slightly dilate the orifice. The importance of obtaining a head presentation in cases of premature labour, and avoiding the use of the forceps, if possible, is insisted upon. In one of the cases related dilatation was commenced a week before delivery, and repeated every day until labour set in. TtTENING. Dr. Graily Hewitt, " On the operation of Turning in cases of Dispropor- tion between the Foetal Head and the Pelvis" ('Lancet,' 2, 1864, p. 232). Dr. Braxton Hicks, " Three Cases of Obstructed Labour ; Forceps and Craniotomy employed in former labours in each ; delivered readily by Version" ('Med. Times,' vol. i, 1864, p. 425). In cases of pelvic narrowing, or of disproportion between the fcetal head and the pelvis, we have four alternatives :—(i) To wait and see what nature can do without assistance. (2) To apply the forceps. (3) To per- form version ; or (4) craniotomy. Dr. Hewitt remarks upon each of the.se moxles of practice, and warmly advocates the practice of turninc; in such cases, when possible. The mechanical advantage obtained by turn- ing arises from the fact that the diameter of the base of the fcetal skull which has first to pass the brim of the pelvis after turning is less than that of the upper part. Further, the transverse diameter, which requires to be lessened, is capable of being reduced to a greater extent when tho head is made to enter the pelvis with the base lowest; and the rest of the head is more readily moulded to the shape of the pelvis so as to allow of its passage through the brim. Again, by turning we have the advantao-e of being able to make traction on the child with much hope of etfectin"- its delivery alive. In comparing turning with the " high forceps opera°- tion —a much more exact expression than deliverv by the "lono-884. HEPOUT ox MIDWIl'BBY, ETC. forceps" — it frequently happens that the forceps cannot be applied on account of the contracted condition of the os uteri often present in cases of pelvic deformity. It is in these cases that JJr. Braxton Hicks's method of turning (described in 'Year Book,' 1863) will prove of the greatest value, especially in cases where the patient is seen early, and where the membranes are still unruptured. ]3ut even in the more diflieult eases, where the waters have escaped and the uterus is tightly contracted round the child, turning can still be effected, by careful and steady introduction of the hand into the uterus, long after the oc- currence of the impaction. In turning, carefully performed, we avoid the risk of laceration of the uterus connected with the application of tlie forceps in the high operation. While the delivery can doubtless be effected more easily by turning in these cases of deformity, the danger to the child is greater than in delivery by the forceps. If turning be resolved on, the following points are noteworthy. The operation may be performed very late, and even in cases of considerable impaction the head will be found to recede before the hand in the vagina with singular readi- ness. Contraction of the uterus is not an insuperable obstacle. Chloro- form is not absolutely neeessar^', but generally advisable. The bladder and rectum must both be emptied before the operation. In all cases both legs should be brought down ; much difficulty is often caused by neglect of this precaution. If the head, after turning, cannot be extracted, craniotomy is necessary, but is then not difHcult. In extracting the child a lateral motion, together with traction in the direction forwards, will facilitate the passage of the head. The great point is to delay the first part of the extraction, but to hurry the delivery of the head. Dr. Hicks's eases well illustrate the advantage of bimanual version over the forceps and craniotomy. In the first case there was coarctation of the brim. The patient had had four children ; the first was very small, born naturally; the third delivered by craniotomy ; the fourth by the forceps. Premature labour at 7^ months was advised in her fifth preg- nancy. This was neglected until nearly the full term, when she con- sented, and delivery was effected in 2I hours from the commencement of the dilatation. Both mother and child did well. In the second case a semi-elastic solid tumour in the cavity of the pelvis lessened its antero- posterior diameter one third ; craniotomy had been performed in former labours. Bimanual version was performed early in labour, and a dead child delivered. She recovered rapidly. The third patient had been delivered of only one living child (premature) in eleven labours; in three craniotomy, in three forceps. A small brim obstructed the head, which required some traction after version. The mother did well. THE FOECEPS. Dr. Ryan, "An account of 1206 Midwifery Cases, in 977 of which the Forceps was used loi times " ('Dub. Quart. Journ.,' Feb., 1864). Dr. Halahan, " On Difficult Labour ; Forceps Cases " (' Dub. Quart. Journ.,' May, 1864).385 CEANIOTOMY. Dr. Ryan uses the forceps once in about 9^ cases, and justifies this frequent employment of the instrument by the low rate of mortality resulting to both mother and child as compared with that observed ia cases of protracted labour where the forceps is either delayed or not used. Dr. Evan states that none of the mothers died in the 977 cases where the forceps was used, that there were no perineal lacerations, no vesico- vaginal fistula;, that the recoveries were strikingly rapid, and that after- illnesses were very rare. Of the children born at full term, and presenting naturally, 9 were stillborn in the 229 cases in which the forceps was not used, or i in 20^; while of the 977 cases in which the child presented naturally, and the forceps was used, only 62 were stillborn, or i in 488-|- cases. It should be added, however, that although it is stated that 49 of the loi cases in which the forceps was used were priraiparro, no mention is made—(i) of the proportion of the cases to the whole number in which the forceps was used in the second stage ; (2) of the duration of the second stage ; (3) of the exact circumstances in which the instrument was used. Dr. Halahan gives an outline, with carefully drawn up tables, of the cases in which the forceps and vectis were used in difficult labour, with the results, during the three years he acted as Assistant-Master of the Dublin Lying-in-Hospital. Of 3700 women delivered, the vectis was used in 22 cases, or i in 168 ; and the forceps in 56 cases, or i in 66. Of the 56 cases in which the forceps was used, 46 were primiparaj and 10 multi- part ; the labours lasting from 8 to 70 hours respectively, and the second stage from i to 18 hours. Of the mothers, 43 recovered and 13 died; but puerperal fever existed on two occasions in the hospital, and of the 13 deaths 4 occurred from this cause in one week. Of the children, 24 males and 16 females were born alive, and 11 males and 5 females were stillborn, i. e. respiration could not be fully established. In 22 cases the vectis was employed, the labours lasting from 7 to 65 hours respectively, and the second stage from 6 to 19 hours. Of the 22 cases, 17 were primiparje and 5 multipara). Of the mothers, 18 recovered and 4 died (one from puerperal fever). Of the children, 9 males and 6 females were born alive, 4 males and 3 females stillborn. Of the 78 cases in which the forceps and vectis was employed, interference was indicated in 58, for inertia of the uterus ; in 10 for disproportion between the pelvis and the liead, in 5 of which the crotchet was afterwards used to effect delivery; in I for eclampsia; in 3 for feebleness of the foetal heart; in 2 for threatened rupture of the uterus; in 3 for inertia of the uterus, with feebleness of the foetal heart; in i for posterior displacement of the right arm. There were two cases of face presentation, both stillborn. In all these cases there was manifest and imminent danger, calling for instrumental inter- ference, and Dr. Halahan thinks that the use of the forceps should be entirely restricted to such cases. CRANIOTOMY. Powell, T., "The Forceps in Craniotomy" ('Dub. Quart. Journ. ' Feb., 1864). ' Murphy, Prof., " On the Comparative Claims of Craniotomy and the 25UEPOllT ON MIDWIFEIiy, ETC. 386 CsDsarean Section in a certain class of Labours, with a new Pelvimeter" ('Dub. Quart. Journ.,' May, 1864). Meadows, A., LI.D., " Difficult Labour ; Craniotomy; Utility of Dr. Earle's Pelvimeter" ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' i, 1864, p. 204). I-—Mr. Powell advocates the use of the forceps in cases of craniotomy, after perforation, instead of tlie crotchet, and records two cases, in both of which a successful result quickly followed its employment after the crotchet had failed. The following advantages are obtained by this instrument:—(i) The avoidance of the failure and delay at times ex- perienced with the crotchet, and of all danger to the mother by the slipping of the crotchet, or of wounds by the pieces of bone. (2) The injury to the child's head is reduced to a minimum, and the appearance of the child is preserved. (3) Traction can be made with the forceps in the most efficient manner; while (4) the whole operation, including per- foration and extraction, may be performed in from 3 to 5 minutes, a rapidity unattainable with the crotchet. Mr. Powell considers Churchill's forceps the best to use after perforation. The advantages of this shape are—(i) That the widest part of the forceps, when in use, corresponds to the widest part of the child's head ; (2) the forceps passes much more fully arouad and above the head, thus preventing the possibility of slipping ; while (3) the blades in the act of introduction have a tendency to impinge upon, almost to hitch in, the fcetal structures, thus conducing very much to the safety of the maternal structm-es, and to safety in the use of the instrument itself. Its disadvantage is that it is more difficult of application than the old form, particularly when the head is high up. 2. —Dr. Murphy records two cases as evidence in favour of the rule adopted by him, that "in the'ovate deformity of the pelvis, if the conjugate axis be less than 2", craniotomy should not be attempted, but an effort made by the Cfesarean section to save the child." * Both cases were brought into the hospital to have the Cesarean section performed; but in both the children were already dead, and therefore craniotomj' was performed, as being generally considered less dangerous to the mother. In the first case great difficulty was experienced in the delivery. After perforation the crotchet was used without success, the head separated from the trunk, one arm was then brought down and traction made, but delivery could not be completed until the second arm was brought down. The cause of the difficulty was enormous distension of the fcetal abdomen from flatus. The patient was 53 hours in labour, was much exhausted and depressed, had bronchitis on admission, and died 20 hours after de- livery. The pelvis presented the ovate defonnity, and the conjugate diameter measured 2^ in. The second patient was 72 hours in labour, 4 hours of which vvere occupied in delivery. She died on the 7th day, from bronchitis. The conjugate diameter of the pelvis was 2^ inches. If the Csesarean section had been performed early in either of these cases, there would have been at least an equal chance of saving the mother. Dr. Murphy describes a pelvimeter which is very similar to that invented by Dr. Earle. 3. —In Dr. Meadows' case the patient was a primipara, and had been in * Murphy's 'Midwifery,' 2nd edit., p. 336.387 CEPIIALOTRIPSY. labour 28 hours. Dr. Earle's pelvimeter was applied without difficulty, and registered a conjugate diameter of 2^". Craniotomy was at once performed, and delivery accomplished in about a quarter of an hour. The patient we'nt on well until the 3rd day, when acute mania set in, and she died 7 days after delivery. The pelvis, after removal of the soft parts, mea- sured at the brim 2f" in the conjugate, 4I" in the transverse, and 4f" in the oblique diameter. CEPHALOTEIPST. Dr. Ritchie, " On the Operation of Cephalotripsy as performed at Vienna by Prof. Braun " ('Obst. Soc. Trans.,' vol. 5, 1865). Dr. Winckel, " On Cephalotripsy " (' Abhandl. der Obst. Gesellsch. zu Berlin,' Nov., 1864). 1. —Dr. Ritchie describes the instruments used in performing cephalo- tripsy, an operation which in Vienna is almost invariably substituted for the iise of the crotchet. The perforator is intended to replace Smellie's scissors, and is a long curved trephine, in the use of which two persons are re- quired. The cephalotribe differs from the French instruments in being smaller and less cumbersome. It is 16 inches long, with strong and non- fenestrated blades. When closed, they meet at the points, and nowhere does the distance between them, including the thickness, exceed 2" 2"'. Each blade is 11'" broad, and 2"' thick ; but it is further strengthened by three ridges which project from its inner surface, and are intended to increase the tenacity with which the head is grasped. 2. —Dr. Winckel exhibited the skulls of three children who had been delivered by cephalotripsy, and the uniformity shown in the appearances of all three appeared to establish a general law. In the application of the cephalotribe the instrument was generally apphed in several diameters, one after the other, and from the consequent crushing it was said that the majority of the bones were broken up into small pieces. But an examination of these skulls showed that only one bone, and almost always, according to the position of the head, a parietal bone, was much crushed, while the opposite part of the head, and therefore generally the basis cranii, was only simply fractured. On all three skulls there was, however, a considerable indentation of the occipital bone, so that the effect of the cephalotribe appeared to be that at the first pressure, one, or sometimes also the second bone, was crushed, while at each further application a dislocation only of all the bones, especially of the occipital bone, was produced. From these results. Dr. Winckel concludes that cephalotripsy was, for the mother, the most favorable mode of breaking up the head, inasmuch as no sharp splinters of bone came in contact with the soft parts, and in many cases, also, the preceding process of trephining by the perforator was not necessary. In the discussion which followed, Strassman remarked that in the four cases in which he had used the cephalotribe he had not found that instrument sufficient in head presen- tations, and had therefore been obliged to perforate. In those cases, however, where version had been performed first, tho head had followed after cephalotripsy alone. Prof Martin agreed with Strassman on tho latter point, and urged the importance of turning over perforation in all eases where the former is possible.UEl'OUT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 388 CESABEAK SECTION. Dr. Gieenhalgh, " On the Casearean Section" (' Obst. Soc. Trans.,' vol. 5. i860- Dr. M. T. Sadler, " A Case of Ctcsarean Section " (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 2, 1864, p. 141). Dr. J. W. Anderson, Jamaica, "A Successful Case of Ca?sarean Section for both Mother and Child" ('Ed. Med. Jour.,' July, 1864). 1. —Dr. Greenhalgh urges thab in difficult cases of craniotomy the lives of many of the mothers and most of the children would be saved by the timely performance of the Csesarean section. In one casein which he had operated the woman was so weak from mollities ossium that it was thought impossible she could survive the operation. She lived, however, three weeks after, and then died from rupture of the transverse colon, the distortion causing occlusion of the rectum. The child was saved. Dr. Greenhalgh strongly urges the early performance of the operation, before the membranes rupture or the mother is exhausted. The incision should be made in the linea alba, and as nearly as possible through the centre of the body, and not through the neck of the uterus, in which, although there are fewer larger vessels, yet the contractile power is far less, and there is consequently a far greater liability to haemorrhage. The abdo- minal and uterine wounds should be held together by the fingers of an assistant placed within the extremities of an incision ; immediately after the extraction of the foetus and secundines the finger should be passed from within through the neck of the uterus into the vagina, so as to secure a free exit for the discharges; the uterus should be firmly grasped by the hand, so as to obtain its free contraction ; and when all fear of hajmorrhage is over the abdominal wound should be brought together by the interrupted suture, and further secured by broad strips of adhesive plaster. As a rule, the author administers no medicine, but treats each symptom as it arises. One remarkable case is related where the patient was up and about Jive days after the operation; she was, however, the subject of a very large umbilical hernia. 2. —In Dr. Sadler's case the patient was a primipara jpt. 21, and the birth of the child was obstructed by an enormous hydatid cyst of the liver, which occupied the whole upper part of the abdomen, and e.\tended down- wards along the spine to the pelvis, being so compressed by the pressure of the uterus from above as to assume tlie character of a bony growth from the promontory of tho sacrum. The operation was performed in the usual way, and a full-sized dead child was extracted, but the mother sank on the day after the operation. 3. —Dr. Anderson's patient was a black girl set. 25. The pelvis was dis- torted from rickets, and the vagina barely admitted two fingers below and only one above. Tho operation was performed early, with the mem- branes unruptured. Much of the liquor amnii escaped into the abdominal cavity, and smart oozing occurred for some minutes from some of the largo venous sinuses at the lower edge of the uterine wound. This was checked by the application of a sponge dipped in cold water. Severe389 thansfusion. vomiting occurred soon after the operation, repeatedly causing the escape of nearly' the whole of both large and small intestines. Acute peritonitis succeeded on the third day, and discharge of pus went on through a large sinus until the 27th day after the operation, when an acute abscess formed. Three days later a pint of fetid pus was discharged through the sinus ; after this, convalesence was rapid, and the woman and child—both in good health—were dismissed on the _46th day after the operation. Opium and ammonia were given freely, with beef tea, milk, and brandy ad libitum. TBANSFUSIOK. Dr. Aveling, "On Immediate Transfusion" ('Obst. Soc. Trans.,' vol. 5, 1865, p. 126). Dr. G rally Hewitt, "Apparatus for the performance of Transfusion" (ibid.). ■ Dr. Aveling gives a brief history of the operation, and submits an in- strument for its performance. This consists of two small silver tubes to enter the vessels, and of an india-rubber pipe by which they are united, and which has in its centre an elastic receptacle holding about two drachms. It is without valves, and is simply a continuous pipe with an expanded portion in the middle. The author suggests the following plan in operating:—While an assistant prepares the arm of the person who supplies the blood, an opening is to be made in the vein of the patient. The emitteut vein is then to be opened as in ordinary bleeding, and the round-pointed tube inserted downwards. If the instrument be now held slanting upwards the blood will flow into it and expel the air. Lastly, the bevel-pointed tube is to be inserted into the recipient vein, and the blood may then be made to circulate through the pipe in the following manner:—If the pipe on the emittent side and the receptacle be compressed the blood will be thrown forward into the recipient vein. If, on the con- trary, the pipe be compressed on the recipient side, and the receptacle allowed to expand, the blood will be di-awn into it from the emittent vein. This part of the operation should be perfonned slowly. Each silver tube should be held in its place between the finger and thumb of an assistant. All other points should be managed as in the ordinary operation. The advantages of this immediate method of transfusion are —(i) The chances of coagulation are small—(a) because the blood glides through the pipes and comes in contact only with a thin coating of coagulated blood ; (J) because the blood is removed from the action of the living vessels for only a few seconds; (c) because the blood is not exposed to the air. (2) The apparatus is effective, simple, portable, and inexpensive. And (3) The operation is safe, easy, uninterrupted, and a close imitation of nature. Dr. Hewitt's instrument is the same as that exhibited and described by him at the Bristol Meeting of the British Medical Association.ItEPOET ON MIDWU'EEY, ETC. 390 Part II.—DISEASES OF WOMEN. PnXSIOLOGY, ETC. Grohe, " A Case of a Uterus with Three Ovaries" (' Wien. Medic. Halle,' 1863, 4.3)- Trof. Simon, " Congenital Atresia of the Left Half of the Vagina, with Double Uterus and Vagina; retention of the Menstrual Fluid in the closed half, with contemporaneous Metrorrhagia of the open half" (' Mon. f Geb.,' October, 1864). The uterus and ovaries of a woman set. 40, who had been a prostitute, and had had three children, was seen hy Grohe. Dissection showed one large ovary on the right side, and two small ones ou the left, one of which was fixed close to the uterus by a ligament, while the other, further removed, rested on a fold of peritoneum. All three ovaries had exercised their functions. The author explains this rare anomaly, not by original for- mation, but by fissure formation, at an early period, through which the left ovary was divided into two. Simon's case is of much interest. A girl fet. 15 was admitted into a hospital for a tumour in the vagina. She had menstruated at fourteen, but only for three months. A tumour gradually formed at the external genitals, with abdominal and pelvic pains, and well-marked menstrual molimina, with difficulty of micturition. Eight weeks after the first appearance of the tumour profuse htemorrhage suddenly occurred, and her health improved. The pains ceased and the tumom* disappeared ; but on leaving her bed it returned with the same symptoms as before, with repeated hfemorrhages. Symptoms on admission—anaemia, praecordial and pelvic pressure, with abdominal and lumbar pain. The tumour became fluctuating, and caused pain and difiiculty in walking. Hasmorrhages occurred with the least bodily exertion. The tumour extended the whole length of the vagina, distending the uterus. On the right side of the tumour the finger could pass into the vagina, but the os uteri could not be reached without placing the patient under chloroform. It was then found in the extreme fundus vaginae. A sound was passed into the uterus without difficulty. The diagnosis was difficult, and lay between extra-peritoneal pelvic hsematoccle, and atresia of the left half of the vagina, with double uterus and vagina and retention of menstrual fluid in the closed half. With two fingers introduced at the same time into both halves of the vagina, an os and cervix uteri could be felt in each half simultaneously, and the septum vagina; in its whole extent was thus clearly established. Pressure on the tumour did not dmunish its size nor increase the flow of blood from the osseous portion. Hence no communication could exist between the tumour and the vagma. An incision was made in the tumour, and about six ounces of tar-hkc fluid escaped, which continued to pass for several days. The patient recovered well. Menstruation was normally established. Two months after, the aperture made by the incision had'becomo so small that two fingers could391 AFFECTIONS OF THE OS AND CERVIX UTEEI. be onlj' passed with difficulty into the left half of the vagina, but it was considered unsafe to enlarge the opening. This case is said to be the first living case hitherto recorded. ArFECTIONS or THE OS AND CEEVIX UTERI. Dr. H. A. Martyn, " Hypertrophy of the Os and Cervix Uteri, forming an External Tumour; removal by Excision" (-'Amer. Jour. Med. Sci.,' I, 1864). Dr. Jackson Warren, "^Hypertrophic Elongation of the Cervix Uteri of Twenty-six Years' standing, with protrusion beyond the External Organs; Ulceration, Haemorrhage, Operation, Recovery" ('Amer. Jour. Med. Sci.,' Jan., 1864). Dr. Henieke, " Case of Tetanus following an Operation for Cancer of the Cervix Uteri" ('Griefswalder Med. Beitrage,' 3, 2). Dr. Keiller, " Cauliflower Excrescence of the Cervix Uteri removed by the Ecraseur" (' Ed. Med. Jour.,' April, 1864). 1. —In Dr. Martyn's case the following were the measurements of the tumour, which pi-otruded from the vulva :—From the anterior commissure of the labia to the extremity of the tumour, in. ; from the posterior commissure to the same point, ^ in. The transverse diameter measured 3^ in., the vertical 3-i-. A catheter introduced into the os could be passed up 3 in. without any obstruction. At that point the canal nari'owed, but hy manipulation the instrument passed in. further, till its point touched the fundus. Amputation by the knife was performed at a point 2^ in. from the end of the tumour posteriorly, and 2^ in. from the end anteriorly. The haemorrhage was slight, and easily checked by the per- chloride of iron, and the patient recovered quickly. 2. —In Dr. Warren's case, the patient was anaemic and feeble, from re- peated haemorrhages arising from ulceration of the tumour. This was 3"—4" long, and 4" in circumference. The sound passed 5" through the OS. The point of a catheter in the bladder could be felt half way down the tumour. The recto-uterine cul-de-sac was dragged down 2" external to the cavity of the pelvis. The body of the uterus could be felt normal in size and position. With the catheter in the bladder, section of the tumour was carefully made in front of the peritoneal cul-de-sac, the bladder being dissected from the body of the tumour. The haemorrhage was not great, and the patient recovered well. 3. —Dr. Henieke's case was a delicate woman, ast. 32, who had previously borne two children. Villous cancer of the cervix was diagnosed, and the portio vaginalis was removed by galvano-caustic. Six days after, severe haemorrhage occurred, and recurred again and again in spite of the employment of perchloride of iron and cold-water injections, so that she at length became greatly exhausted. From this, however, she rallied, and was steadily improving, when she was attacked with symptoms of trismus. Chloroform and atropine gave partial but only temporary relief. Four days later the muscles of the neclc and spine became involved, and con- tinuous tetanic spasm gradually attacked the muscles of the trunk and extremities. Chloroform and opium now failed to give relief and she died on the eleventh day. Dr. Henieke attributes the tetanus to the lono--892 REPORT ON MIDWIFEliy, ETC. continued cold injections used to control the hasmorrliage rather than to the operation itself, for at the time of the attack the wound was healing kindly. ^ 4-—Dr. Keiller remarks on a case of epithelial cancer of the cervix success- fully removed by Prof. Simpson, and states that a permanent cure can never be reckoned on in such cases. All experience showed the opposite was the fact; nevertheless, the great relief afforded to the patient, and the undoubted prolongation of life, fully justified the operation where the case was seen early. AMEKOnniKEA. Dr. H. E. Storer, "On the Surgical Treatment of Amenorrhcea" ('Amer. Jour, of Med. Science,' vol. i, 1864, p. 81). As a general rule, it will be found that amenorrhcea which has resisted the usual modes of treatment depends, in the absence of pregnancy, upon one or other of the followiugcauses : — (i) That the uterus is absentor (2) that it is imperfectly developed. (3) That it has undergone too complete involution after labour or abortion. (4) That the nisus uterinus of men- struation is in abeyance, even though the ovarian functions may be normal or complete. (5) That the cervical canal, or its inner orifice, is partially contracted—organically, or by tonic or clonic spasm. (6) That there is complete occlusion, congenital or acquired, of either the uterus, vagina, or external organs. (7) That there exists acute or chronic metritis, or a chronic retention within its cavity, e. y. foetal debris. (8) That there is lesion, usually inflammatory, of one or both ovaries. (9) That there is present either general toxaemia or some distant organic or functional dis- ease, giving rise to a drain upon the general system, whetiier ha;mor- rhagic, diaphoretic, leucorrheal, diabetic, or lacteal. Any of these varieties, but especially the latter, may be attended by vicarious menstruation. In cases where the uterus is present, but undeveloped, the author recommends the use of an intra-uterine galvanic stem-pessary, similar in form to that of Prof. Simpson's, the stem being made of copper and zinc. This should readily enter both the outer and inner openings of the cervix, but not touch the fundus. No undue irritation need be leared if this be attended to. The amount of action produced is shown by the fact that upon withdrawing the instrument from the uterine cavity, wliile the copper portion remains almost entirely free from deposit, that of zinc is encrusted with a thick layer of foreign matter, which, upon chemical analysis, is resolved into the metallic salt usually found in similar circum- stances. In the third, fourth, and fiftli classes above alluded to the same treatment is indicated, and will be found to answer well. The atrophy which sometimes results after ordinary parturition is remarkable. The cavity of the uterus, instead of its normal size, i\ in., measures only \\ in., or even less than an inch, and complete cessation of menstruation occurs. For dilatation of the cervix the author prefers tents of the shppery-elm bark to sea-tangle. In cases of retention of the catamenia, under the sixth head, the author recommends a free incision, not a small one, "in order that the uterus should be emptied as rapidly and thoroughly as possible, even to the extent of completely rinsing its cavity by gentle injections of warm water, and subsequent compression through393 FLEXIONS AND VERSIONS OF THE UTERUS. the abdominal walls." And he accounts for many of the fatal cases occurring after the ordinary practice of a smallmcision by the contractions of the uterus forcing part of the retained inspissated fluid back through the Fallopian tubes into the abdominal cavity, and so setting up peritonitis. In all such and similar operations Dr. Clay's plan of giving ox gall for several days before the operation should be adopted, and the patient previously strengthened with a course of steel. In cases of araenorrhoea following metritis, the author finds the best results from the application of nitrate of silver to the cervical mucous membrane. All intra-uterine injections, with the single exception of that mentioned above, the author strongly condemns. DTSJIEIs'ORRHCEA. Dr. Coglan, " On Dysmeuorrhoea and Sterility" (' Med. Times,' vol. 2, 1864, p. 87). Dr. Corlieu, " On the Employment of Apiol in Amenorrhoea and Dys- menorrhcea" ('Gaz. des Hop.'). 1. —Dr. Coglan deprecates the incision of the os and cervix uteri in all cases where a bougie will pass. Dilatation by the sea-tangle-tents or by the compressed pine-wood, will in many cases, in his opinion, effect a cure. The cases in which incision is most valuable are those in which the OS and cervix are hypertrophied, the cavity of the cervix is obliterated, or the cervical canal is greatly contracted. 2. —Dr. Corlieu has emplo^-ed apiol (the active principle of parsley) with success in some cases of amenorrhoea and dysmeuorrhoea dependent on functional derangement of the nervous system. On the other hand, it is contra-indicated in all cases where there is organic disease, or plethora, or anasmia existing, until these latter con- ditions have been rectified. The principal conditions for success in its use seems to be that the pain should be due to derangement of the vaso-motor innervation of the plexus, and that the time chosen for its administration shall correspond to a menstrual pe- riod. If the period has not been calculated, it may often be dis- covered by noticing the sympathetic derangements incidental to the time. Apiol does not relieve the nervous pains seated in branches of the lumbo- sacral nerves, and especially in the uterus, which appear or become inten- sified at the menstrual period, and may simulate dysmenorrhcea proper. FLEXIONS A'ND VERSIONS OF THE UTERUS. Dr. Priestlev, "On Flexions and Versions of the Unimpregnated Uterus" ('Med.'Times,' i, 1864, p. 501). Mr. B.Brown, " On Retroflexion of the Uterus" ('Lancet,' 2, 1864, P- 174)- Dr. Priestley confirms tlie views held by Kigby and others, that the painful symptoms seen in some cases of retroflexion are rather due to a morbid condition of one or both ovaries, associated with displacement, than to the displacement itself or to displacement combined with some morbid condition of the uterus. Dr. Priestley adds a very necessary894 IIEPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. caution in using tlio ut(!rine sound in certain cases of flexion of the uterus of old standing. Its introduction in some of these cases gives rise to much needless pain and suffering; and if attempts be made to replace the uterus when bound down by old adhesions, grievous and even fatal injury may bo inflicted. Virchow, Scanzoni, and others, have also pointed out that in cases of prolonged retroflexion the cervical canal becomes extremely contracted at its upper extremity, and this contraction obstructs the introduction of the sound. This is due, in many cases, not to the simple flexion, but to organic narrowing of the canal at the situation of the oiv internum, produced by atrophy of the posterior wall at the seat of flexure ; and, unless great care be exercised, the sound may easily be pushed through the wall at this point. In the treatment, Dr. Priestley remarks that, where there is uterine enlargement, with pain and tenderness, associated with displacement, the disease should be first treated. He advocates rest, the administration of the bromide and iodide of potassium, and strict attention to the management of the men- strual periods, the greatest care being taken to avoid ovarian and pelvic congestion. A very simple and efficacious pessary is invented and de- scribed by the author, which can readily be adapted to any alteration of curve the case may require. Mr. Brown records two cases of retroflexion treated by simple incision of the OS and cervix uteri. In one case the patient had been suffering from this condition for fourteen years, with the attendant pain and difficulty in defseca- tion, and was immediately cured by this operation. The author states that he has found the same treatment uniformly successful in private and hospital practice. He adds that the true source of uterine disturbance and dis- placement in both the married and the single is to be found ver}' fre- quently in habits of delectation, and that in these cases excision of the clitoris can'alone give permanent relief. In many cases it is also, he states, a cause of sterility, and in these dilatation of the cervix is useless, and excision of the clitoris is the only cure. DISEASES OE THE XTTEEUS.—EIBEOTIS TTTMOiniS OF THE UTEETTS. Dr. Eouth, " On Fibrous Tumours of the Uterus." The Lettsomian Lec- tures on Midwifery, 1863 ('Brit. Med. Jour.,' i, 1864). Mr. Hutchinson, " On the Surgical Treatment of Fibrous Tumours of the Uterus" (Holmes' ' System of Surgery,' vol. 4). Dr. Matthews Duncan, " The Source of Hsemorrhage in a Case of Fibrous Tumour of the Uterus" (' Ed. Med. Jour.,' Jan., 1864). Mr. Baker Brown, " On the Surgical Treatment of Fibrous Tumours of the Uterus" ('Obst. Soc. Trans.,' vol. 5, 1865). I.—The simplest idea of a fibrous tumour is to regard it as a growth in which the fibro-cellular tissue predominates. In some cases there is less, in others more, cellular tissue present, and hence the division into fibrous and fibro-cellular tumours. Where the uterine tissue is more marked they are called " fleshy tubercles," or muscular tumours. Three classes of tumours are recognised:—(i) Fibromas, includinghj/steronuis {fibroids of Lebert), which difler from fibromas in their benignity and in never ulcer-395 FIBEOUS TUMOUBS OF THE UTEBUS. ating spontaneously, identical in structure with that of the uterine tissue. (2) °Fibroids, including the recurrent. (.3) Malignant fibroids, as occurring both among fibromas and fibroids. From their position they may be (i) extra-uterine, situated just beneath the peritoneum ; (2) intra-uterme (polypus) ; or (3) parietal or interstitial. The size varies from an orange to 74 lbs., the largest being the pedunculated. The intrinsic changes of these tumours may be—(i) Softening, which includes a sarcomatous change, cedema, the formation of pseudo or colloid cysts and true cysts, suppu- ration, and fatty degeneration. (2) Hardening, which may be peripheral or interstitial. (3) Absorption. True fibro-cystic disease is very rare. Suppuration is not so uncommon as is generally supposed. The hardening or calcareous transformation is much more common in the extra-uterine varieties. The absorption is generally synchronous with the climacteric change. The author believes sexual excitement to be one of the causes of fibrous tumours, since their occurrence immediately succeeds the age when sexual passion, frequency of marriages, and fecundity, were greatest, viz., between 27 and 35, and because, after menstruation ceases, they generally diminish in size, occasionally disappear, and rai-ely enlarge. Sterihty is not necessarily associated with these tumours. Of 22 married women atfected with fibrous tumours only ^ were barren. Of 24 affected with polypi only 3 were barren. In reference to the diagnosis, the author remarks on the importance of being fully acquainted with all the details of the previous history, and then points out the necessity for—(i) examination of the patient in different positions, since by this the presence or absence of adhesions could be ascertained, and cases of short pedunculated ovarian tumour be diagnosed from uterine tumours ; (2) careful observation of special symptoms, with their relative value ; (3) especial reference to the differential diagnosis between pregnancy and ovarian disease, the two most common conditions likely to be mistaken for fibroid disease of the uterus. To determine the direction and position of the tumour,'the author has iie^'iseiis, pelvimeter, which consists of two sounds, so adapted that they can be introduced separately, one into the bladder or rectum, the other into the uterus. The distance between them is then noted, and the exact measure of the tumour thus determined. The symptoms of fibrous tumours are, generally—an enlarged abdomen, •with a hard, rounded, and solid tumour, to be felt in and above the uterine region, extending sometimes as high as the epigastrium, both lumbar regions being clear on percussion, and the umbilicus sunken, not pro- jecting ; the uterus is found enlarged per vaginam, and the cavity increased ;] menorrhagia is more or less intense, fluctuation is absent, and an occasional systolic souffle is to be heard over the tumour. Auscul- tation reveals four signs :—(i) A souffle, either («) vesicular, heard also in some cases of ovarian disease, in pregnancy, and shortly, but not immedi- ately after delivery, resembhng the bruit placentaire, and probably due to an extended circulation; or (i) a tubular souffle, peculiar to fibroids and other solid tumours resting upon the aorta, and not destroyed by pressure. (2) A thrill, with musical note, very similar to an aneurismal sound, and never heard either in ovarian disease or pregnancy. (3) The double and single cardiac sounds—first, a single sound, synchronous with the systole396 REPOUT ON MIDWIFKRYj ETC. of the heart; secondly, two sounds synchronous with and representing the double sound of the organ. These sounds are also due to transmission from the aorta through the solid fibroid body. If the tumour be low down, they could be heard either by passing a common stethoscope per vagi- nam, and making it rest upon the tumour, or, better still, by the vagino- scope, an instrument which the author lias devised, which consists of a long stethoscope, to the distal end of which is attached a wooden speculum. Menorrhagia is common in fibroids, especially if these are intra- uterine. Of 48 cases, in 34 there was hfcmorrhage, in 14 none. Tlie larger number of the former were intra-uterine, of the latter extra-uterine. The diagnosis from pregnancy has been before referred to.* In the diagnosis from ovarian disease the following points are noted: —I. Some uterine fibroids grow from one side. 2. Fluctuation may be absent in ovarian tumours and present in fibroids, or in parts of them, under four conditions—(«) when soft, flabby, and fleshy; (b) when unusually vascular; (c) when cedema is present; (d) when cysts are present. Here the difliculty would be sometimes cleared up by the previous history, or by the induration of other parts of the growth, or by an exploratory puncture. The catamenia might also aff'ord help. From an analysis of 150 cases, in 42 per cent, this was found regular, in 18 per cent, it was arrested, while in 9 per cent, it was profuse. Me- norrhagia is general in fibroids, quite exceptional in ovarian disease. Lastly, in solid fibrous or fibro-cystic tumours of the ovary the diagnosis was most difiicult, often impossible. In the treatment the author has found the oxide of silver in large doses, with or without Indian hemp, sulphuric and gallic acids, and turpentine, the most effective remedies for restraining the hfemorrhage. For this, however, local measures are the best—(i) by injection of iodine or of the sesquichloride of iron after dilatation by sponge-tents ; (2) by incision of the OS uteri; (3) by cutting directly upon the uterine tumour. Of the so-called curative remedies, the author thinks the bichloride of mercury useful in hypertrophy or retarded involution of the uterus, especially if combined with local depletion. Chloride of calcium and bromine apjiear less efl^ective in parietal tumours than in mere chronic enlargement. Elec- tricity of high intensity is favorably mentioned. surgical treatment of these tumours may be either enucleation of the tumour or removal by gastrotomy. Enucleation was either primary, when the tumour was wholly removed at one time; or secondary (also called enucleation " by inducing gaiigrene"), where part only was removed at the time, and the remainder came away b}' sloughing. Of 18 cases of primary enucleation instanced by Mr. Hutchinson, 12 recovered.! Of enucleation by induction of gangrene Mr. Hutchin- son mentioned 11; cases and 6 deaths; in 10 cases collected by the author 4 died, and in one the result was not stated. Mr. Hutchinson concluded that, if all cases were known, the results of primary and secondary enucleation would be the same; the author believed that, * inde " Pregnancy," p. .^62. t 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1857, vol. 2.397 FIBROUS TUMOUM OF THE UTERUS. except where the tumours were very small, secondary enucleation was less fatal. Simple incision of the os and cervix will, in some cases, cause the absorption of the tumour. Of the operation by gastrotomy, 33 cases are recorded, and of these, 10 recovered. As to the causes of death, 9 died from hemorrhage, 5 from peritonitis, and the rest from " shock" a few hours after the operation. The author concludes that gastrotomy for fibroid tumours should not be performed except in the case of extra-uterine tumours, or where the tumour was high up so as to allow removal of hoth the uterus and the ovaries. The cases of fibroid tumours which, in the author's opinion, justify operative interference are—(i) where, by their rapid growth, they threaten to interfere with vital functions ; (2") where they are threatening to arrest micturition and defaecation; (3) where they interfere greatly with respi- ration and the cardiac circulation ; (4) where hsemorrhage is excessive, and threatens life by exhaustion. Enucleation was indicated in cases of tumours in the true pelvis. Gas- trotomy was indicated in cases of tumours in or above the true pelvis, especially if these were fibro-C3'stic. In cases of excessive haemorrhage patients were most liable to pyaemia. Injections should, if possible, precede enucleation or extirpation, to enable the patient to rally. In no case was it safe to operate for the removal of a fibroid tumour of the uterus unless the sound had been previously introduced into the uterus. 2.—Mr. Hutchinson states the following as conclusions arrived at from a careful study of the subject of fibrous tumours of the uterus, in reference to surgical treatment: — i. That surgical interference with interstitial fibrous tumours of the uterus is always attended with very consider- able risk, and ought not to be practised except under circumstances of urgency or when the position of the growth is peculiarly tempting. 2. That when the tumour is not of very large size, and is already partially extruded, the operation is rendered comparatively devoid of danger, and ought to be performed at once. 3. That when the tumour is as yet wholly imbedded, and even when of large size, the enucleation treatment is yet warrantable if the patient's life be threatened by hajmorrhage. 4. That primary enucleation, where at all easily practi- cable, is much preferable to the secondary method. 5. That where the tumour is very large, or where found after the incisions to be firmly united to its capsule, the secondary plan should be preferred. 6. That whichever plan it is intended to adopt, the first incision should, excepting under unusual circumstances, be made from within the cavity of the cervix, and should be as free as possible. 7. That the danger of haemorrhage from this incision is very slight. 8. That as much should be done as'practicable at the first operation in freeing the tumour from its cyst. Thus, if the adhesion, be found more loose than had been expected, a primary enucleation may be completed where the slower plan had been proposed. 9. That the after- treatment in cases of primary enucleation should consist in warding ofi" the shock by opiates, in sustaining the strength, and in the free use of stimuli and nutritious diet. 10. That in cases of secondary enucleation the ergot of rye should be administered, so as to keep up vigorous uterine action, and that the greatest attention should be paid to sustainino- theREPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 398 patient's streiigtli, and to the removal of discharge and shreds of slough as fast as formed. 11. That in cases of great exhaustion and threatened pelvic inflammation the internal use of turpentine is of great value. 12. That in cases of secondary enucleation, the surgeon need not be anxious about the removal of the tumours cn masse, but may confidently expect that if it have taken on a sloughy state in its lower part, the death and piecemeal disintegration of the whole will follow. 13. That the " recurrent fibroid" tumours slough away yet more readily after inter- ference than the true fibrous ones, although liable to return after a short interval. 14. That after a successful enucleation, complete, though gra- dual, restoration to good health may be expected. Mr. Hutchinson lays down the following rules in the operation for pri- maiy enucleation:—(i) The tumour should be well depressed into the pelvis by an assistant. (2) The first incisions should be very free, and pass deeply into the tumour, thus not only dividing its capsule, but facili- tating its bisection, should that afterwards be found requisite. This first incision should be made with a scalpel. In most cases it will be found convenient to pass the knife into the uterine cavity, and then, turning its edge on to the tumour, to cut downwards, and either forwards or backwards, according as the mass may occupy either the anterior or posterior wall. All experience goes to show that no important hemorrhage is to be feared from this incision, and if directed^ in the manner indicated, the whole substance of the tumour will intervene between the knife and the peritoneum. (3) The opened cajxsule must be separated by the fingers, or, if needful, by blunt-pointed curved scissors, the finger being used as a director. Strong and large vulsella, with midwifery forceps, should be at hand, to be used for traction if necessary. (4) The grand object is to draw down, after separation of the tumour, the uterus, inverted, with the tumour to the external parts, or as near them as possible, as this much lessens the difiiculty of the operation. To do this a large vulsellum should be carefully planted in the mass and traction carefully and steadily made in the axes of the pelvis. (5) After eversion has been completed, an examination should be made with the finger per rectum, and the remaining attachments of the tumour must be cautiously sepa- rated. The greatest care must be taken not to cut through an inverted pouch of peritoneum. (6) Tiiroughout the operation the greatest patience must be exercised, and as much gentleness as is consistent with the requisite force. (7) The uterus is then returned; if necessary, a sponge-plug should be introduced, and a full dose of opium givei. Ice, ergot, and stimulants, are to be given, as indicated by the symptoms. 3.—Dr.MatthewsDuncandcscribesthesourceoffatalhffimorrhageinaease of fibrous tumour of the uterus. The uterus was situated centrally, with the OS high in the pelvis, and the cervix hypertrophied and elongated i-J- inch. A globular fibrous tumour, 3 incfiSs in diameter, occupied tlie fundus. Venous sinuses that would admit a small crowquill permeated it in various directions. It was everywhere surrounded by a covering of the proper tissue of the uterus. In tlie layer of uterine tissue covering the inner aspect of the tumour there was developed a reticulation of enormous uterine sinuses, such as are observed in the same part in pregnancy. These were largest above and below the tumour, and contracted inFIBROUS TUMOURS OP THE UTERUS. 399 dimensions as they approaclied the side of the uterus to emerge from it between the serous layers of the broad Hgament. The mucous surface of the uterine cavity was pale, smooth, and healthy. A little clot, decolour- ised at its extremity (no htemorrhage had occurred for some days before death), protruded tlirough a small, empty, and flat uterine sinus, about the centre of the projecting tumour. The opening was in diameter, and through it a probe could be easily passed into the uterine sinuses. In ordinary circumstances the walls of these sinuses are nearly in contact. It was only during the periodical monthly congestion that blood passed along the open sinus, and thence into the uterine cavity. This case appears to indicate the value of those hasmostatic measures which diminish the impetus of the blood or moderate congestion in the pelvic viscera. 4.—The object of Mr. Brown's paper is to confirm by fourteen cases the good results of the practice he had previously advocated, and to show that in most cases incision of the os and cervix uteri alone would arrest the hasmorrhage and the development of the tumour. In some cases the tumour decreased, and, when small, it would entirely- disappear, especially if of recent origin ; and even if gouging was required, a less severe operation than that previously adopted is sufficient. The author now uses only a pair of blunt-pointed, curved scissors, finding that the slightest destruction of the capsule of the tumour is enough to ensure its disinte- gration. The following is the author's mode of incising the os and cervix : —The patient being in the lithotomy position, the perineum is well depressed by means of Bozeman's speculum. The anterior lip of the os is then seized by a pair of vulsellum forceps, and held by tlie left hand of the operator, who then introduces the hysterotome, and, whilst firmly holding the ibrceps to tlie left side, cuts the os and cervix laterally to the light. Then reversing the hand, he holds the forceps towards the right side and cuts out towards the left. The cut surfaces are then well plugged with oiled lint, and the vagina also filled with lint, so as to ensure the most perfect pressure and exclusion of atmospheric air. If this be properly done, there is never any serious haemorrhage ; but an unequal or inefficient plugging is often followed by dangerous haemorrhage or peritonitis. The operation of gouging the tumour should not be done sooner than a fortnight after the incision of the os and cervix. With the patient in the same position, the index finger of the left hand of the operator is inserted within the inner os, and a pair of long-handled, blunt pointed, curved scissors are passed up to the tumour and pressed through the capsule ; the blades are then so opened as to break up the tumour. Oiled lint is then passed into the opening thus made, and the vagina plugged as before. The dressings are not to be removed under 48 hours, and the vagina is then to be washed out with a lotion of Condy's fluid. Of the 14 cases related, 10 were cured of the hemorrhage by the incision of the os and cervix alone, and i was relieved; in 2 only was the second operation necessary, and both were cured. In 6 cases the tumour had either entirely disappeared or materially decreased after inci- sion alone. Of tlie 3 deaths, i occurred from peritonitis, i from pyajmia, and i from organic disease independent of the operation The following conclusions are drawn :—i. The fact of the curability of the^e tumours is materially confirmed by these cases. 2. It is not necessarf in400 KEPOUT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. many cases to do more than incise the os and cervix. 3. The haemorrha"-e is almost invariably arrested by this incision. ° CABOINOMA. Dr. Graily Hewitt, "On Cancer of the Fundus Uteri" ("'Diseases of Women,' p. 348). Prof. Simpson, "On Carcinoma of the Fundus Uteri" ('Ed. Med. Jour.,' April, 1864). Saxinger, " On Primary Carcinoma of the Fundus Uteri" (' Prao-. Med Zeitsch.,' 1864). ° Dr. Barnes, " On Cancer of the Cervix Uteri, with Lymphatic Ob- struction" ('Med. Times,' i, 1864, p. 35). Prof. Habit, " A case of Recovery from Cancer of the Uterus and Vagina" ('Allgem. AVien. Med. Zeit.,' 1863). I-—Dr. Simpson relates two well-marked cases, in one of which the diagnosis was confirmed by a post-mortem examination, and draws attention to a symptom which he has observed in most of these cases. This is the daily recurrence, usually observed at a regular hour, of intense paroxysms of pain, slight and intermittent, perhaps, at first, but soon reaching a high pitch of intensity, and then gradually passing off. This pain is quite independent of the ordinary lancinating pain usually ob- served in carcinoma. Dr. Simpson sums up the diagnosis of cancer of the fundusuteriwitharecitalof thefollowingsymptoms:—(i) The presence of a constant, profuse, and offensive discharge. (2) Frequent, profuse, and intractable menorrhagia. (3) The presence of a hard, rough, and irregular tumour in tlie cavity of the uterus, detected by the uterine sound, and felt by the finger after the dilatation of the cervix. (4) Re- cognition under the microscope of the morbid structures, as evidence of cancer. (5) The periodic recurrence of the pains above mentioned. 2. —Among 420 cases of cancer of the uterus observed in Vienna only one of primary cancer of the fundus was observed. Dr. West met with two in 120 cases of uterine cancer. Dr. Simpson thinks that out of 30 cases of cancer of the uterus 2 are of this kind. The deposit ma}', according to Dr. Simpson, be observed in the outer layer of the middle coat of the uterus or in the subperitoneal or peritoneal coat, or attacking the whole thickness of the uterine walls, or in the mucous or submucous coat of the body or fundus. In the diagnosis of these uncommon varieties of carci- noma uteri Dr. Graily Hewitt notices tbe'following points :—The patient presents symptoms of uterine cancer ; a vaginal examination fails to give evidence of it; a careful examination of the uterus above the pubes reveals the existence of an irregular, or possibly of a regular, tumour, which may be of considerable size; this tumour, which, in its physical character may resemble a fibrous tumour of the uterus, is distinguished from the latter by the presence of a more or less constant, offensive, and bloody discharge, and some of the constitutional symptoms of cancer. 3. —Siixinger records two cases occurring in Prof. Seyfert's clinique. In both cases the diagnosis was verified after death, and in neither did the disease extend to the cervix. Siixinger deprecates the use of the spe-401 CANCEU OF THE UTEEUS. culum in such cases, for the disease is well marked and evident by digital examination, and, independently of the prol'use haemorrhage which gene- rally results, traction of the vagina with the friable tissue may not unlikely result in perforation of the bladder or rectum. 2. —Dr. Barnes relates a series of cases of cancer of the cervix uteri, with systemic injection, of which the following is a good example. A woman let. 45 had borne nine children, the last six years ago. Menstruates regularly, but has had repeated floodings during the last nine months. Complexion of a deep-straw colour. Vomiting incessant for four days before admission. Scirrhus of the cervix far advanced. A tense swelling of the right leg appeared a few days back. She had always had venectasis during pregnancy, but this had diminished greatly since the floodings. Bismuth and cyanide of potassium were prescribed with good effect. Irritative cough followed, the cervical glands became enlarged; the left elbow became swollen, red, and shiny. She was unable to extend the arm fully, and had a burning sensation in it. Cod-liver oil and h}'drochloric acid were now given, and in a week the swelling in the arm had gone down, and she was much better and stronger. Nodular swellings, with indu- ration of the glands and surrounding cellular tissues, were observed in the other cases. They appear to prove that cancerous matter finds its way into the circulation from the primary uterine cancer, by absorption into the veins and lymphatics. The matter thus carried into the blood in the form of emboli or septic fluid may give rise to—(i) Minute peripheral thromboses, (a) As emboli or irritating ichor, may cause larger thrombi in the large veins. (3) The cells, granules, or ichor, taken into the lymphatics and arrested in the glands, cause the knots and tumours seen in these cases. The good effect of cod-liver oil in arresting the general break-down of the system, and the further extension of the primary cancer, with diminution of the exhausting hsemorrhages, is very marked in these and similar cases. 3. —In Prof. Habit's case, the patient, set. 53, had borne two children, the last 17 years ago. Menstruation appeared at 18 and ceased at 46, but 4 years after this hfemorrhage came on, and recurred regularly at monthly intervals. This was moderate in amount, and her health was not at first aff'ected. In the intervals there was a profuse offensive and shredd}- discharge, with frequent micturition. Two months before admission into the Imperial Hospital of Vienna, prol'use haemorrhage occurred, and at the same time she suffered from lumbar and hypogastric pains. Sleepless, emaciated, and enfeebled, she was at length unable to leave her bed. The vagina was filled with large granulations and fungous growths, the vaginal portion was fissured, the cervix funnel-shaped, and its surface soft and ulcerated, while the uterus itself was fixed. From the great tendency to haemorrhage, the examination with the speculum was omitted. A pro- fuse, thin, and most offensive ichorous discharge was constant. The diagnosis was ulcerating medullary carcinoma of the uterus and vagina. The treatment was merely directed to relieve the symptoms. Gradually, however, the general health improved, and pain and discharge ceased. Seven weeks after admission, examination per vaginam disclosed a solid cicatrizing mass filling up the vagina. This mass consisted of easily bleeding, normal, and healthy granulations. No opening could bo 26UEPOllT ON MIDWIFEUY^ ETC. 402 found either with the finger or with the finest uterine sound. Tlie uterus- could not bo felt througli tlie rectum nor through the abdominal walls. A catheter passed into the bladder could be distinctly felt by tlie finger in. the rectum. The author thinks this should be added to tlie very rare cases of healing of cancer which are described by Rokitausky, Kiwiscb,. Scanzoni, and Virchow. PELVIC IliEMATOCELE. Tuekwell, H. M., M.B., ' On Effusions of Blood in the neighbourhood, of the Uterus. With a Synopsis of 98 Cases.' Oxford, Parker. M'Clintock, A. H. M.D., "On Pelvic Hajmatocele" ('Diseases of; Women,' p. 246). Dr. Tuekwell gives an excellent resume of all the known history andi pathology of the so-called peri-uterine or pelvic hamatocele. This lesion consists in an extravasation of blood into the pelvis, either within or external to the peritoneum. In the great majority of cases, the blood is poured out into the peritoneal sac, and occupies the recto-uterine cul-de- sac of Douglas. Hence Nelaton's term of " hajmatocele retro-uterine." None of the extravasated blood may, however, he behind the uterus, and very rarely is it all round the uterus. In exceptional cases, the blood is ex(ra--pGr\tonea], i. e. the effusion takes place into the loose connective tissue of the pelvis, holding the same relation to the surrounding organs as the pus to the ordinary pelvic abscess. In such cases, the effusion usually commences between the layers of the broad ligament, and from thence dissects its way either anteriorly, posteriorly, or laterally, pushing before it and separating from its attachments the vesico-uterine and recto- uterine reflexions of the peritoneum, or extending even into the iliac region and as high as the kidneys. This statement is disputed by M^I. Ne- laton and Voisin, who maintain that extra-peritoneal hsematocele does not exist. On the other hand, Nonat and other authorities support the opinion held by the author, in favour of which Prost and Beequerel cite three well- authenticated cases. On this point the post-mortem evidence is decisive. In 38 out of 41 cases of which the post-mortem examinations have been carefully collected by the author, the blood was found to be inira- peritoueal. In 26 of these cases the blood was diflfused, and in 12 it was circumscribed and limited to the retro-uterine cul-de-sac. In all the re- maining 3 cases of the 41 the evidence was in favour of the blood being extra-peritoneal. But as the latter is a much less dangerous form than the intra-peritoneal, the opportunities for demonstrating it post mortem must be more rare, and it is not unlikely, as Dr. Matthews Duncan suggests, that this form of the disease is of much more frequent occur- rence than is generally supposed. M. Bernutz contends that the extra-peritoneal variety is only met with during pregnancy or the puerperal state, and that no example of its occurrence at any other time has ever been accurately recorded. The cases of jHifra-peritoneal hemorrhage have been grouped under two heads, viz., the enci/sfed and the non-cnci/slcd. Hence the great differences observed in the post-mortem appearances. In the non-cncys(cd the amount of extravasation is very great, with the blood part fluid, part403 PELVIC HiEMATOCELE. dotted, and only a general reddening and injection of the whole perito- neum. In the encysted variety, much the more common, tlie extrava- sation is smaller and more gradual. Adhesions form between the different pelvic organs, so that the upper part of the uterus becomes firmly united with the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and that part of the small intes- tines lying in contact with it, and the recto-uterine cul-de-sac is thus converted into a complete adventitious cyst, containing blood, limited anteriorly- by the posterior surface of the uterus, upper part of the vagina, and posterior fold of the broad ligament, posteriorly by the rectum, and above by adhesiofis. If the effusion into this circumscribed space con- tinue, the uterus and bladder are driven forwards and crushed against the pubis; the rectum is pressed back and flattened against the sacrum ; the adhesions above and soft parts below gradually yield to the pressure, but at length give way, and the blood escapes by the rectum or vagina, or, breaking through the adhesions, causes rapid death by general peritonitis. The sources of the hajmorrhage are various. Excluding injuries to the walls of the abdomen and to the organs contained therein. Dr. Tuckwell mentions the following as sources from which the haematocele originates: — (i) B}' obstruction to the natural outlet of the menstrual blood, which regurgitates into the peritoneal cavity, either through the ostia abdominalia of the Fallopian tubes or through a rent in some part of their walls. Of 44 cases terminating fatally from different causes, five are referred to under this head. In all, death followed an operation for the relief of the retained menstrual fluid. (2) By hasmorrhage into the Fallopian tube at the menstrual epoch, and escape of the blood, either by the ostium abdominale or by rupture from over-distension. The former condition occurred in 2 only out of 8 cases I'elated in illustration of this cause; in the remaining 6 the tube was ruptured. (3) By rupture of the sac in extra-uterine fcjetation, more especially in tubal pregnancy. Of the 44 fatal cases related in the synopsis, 10 occurred from this cause, and 7 of these 10 were cases of tubal pregnancy. (4) By rupture of the investing tunic of a congested ovary, and escape of blood, either from a Graafian vesicle which is the seat of extraordinary hgemorrhage, or ii'om the parenchyma of the organ into which a blood-vessel has burst. Eleven cases are related by the author in which the post-mortem showed this condition. (5) By rupture of a varicose vein in the pampiniform plexus of the ovary. Eichet points out the fact that the veins of this plexus, being without valves, are especially liable to become varicose during pregnancy, or in women who have borne many children; and hence Bernutz suggests, that if haematocele occur in a pregnant woman who has varicose veins of the labia, or even of the legs, the probabiHty is great that the veins of the pampiniform plexus are also varicose, and that one of them has burst. Four fatal cases occurred from this cause. Among the causes predisposing to this hasmorrhage are — (1) Atje. Of 91 cases in which the age was noted, 5 5 were under ,30 and 16 between .30 and 40. Only i was above 40. (2) The catamenial period is the time at which the extravasation is most easily produced. (3) Dijsmemr- rhcca. (4) Menorrhar/ia. Of 76 cases, the first symptoms of the hajmor- rhage occurred at the catamenial period in 36; in 40 menorrhao-ia was present at the time of, or shortly before, the attack, (5) Childbirth. OfREPORT ON MIDWIFKRY, ETC. 64 women, 58 had cither borne children or miscarried. Amon<. the n powerful excUmr/ ctiuses are intense mental emotion, over-fatigue ex oXn!7" «°'t.on especially if occurring at the menstrual Jeri^d, external injuries to the abdomen. The „lom,, though silnilur in cases, yet differ so much m degree, according to the amount of bl effused and the rapidity of the effusion, that it will be convenient to gard them under three modes of invasion. In the forsi and most fu orm the patient is suddenly seized with acute hypogastric pain, follow by all the symptoms of perforation of the bowel, rapid collapse. : death in the course of a few hours. In the second group of cases effusion IS large but more gradual; and if death follow at all, it is a later period. The attack commences suddenly, as in the first groui. 1 the symptoms are less severe, and the pain, at first so violent, abates,' t IS succeeded by much weight and bearing down. Great prostrati. ansemia and either partial or complete retention of urine, with consti- tion, soon succeed, with the rapid development of a tumour beiiind t uterus or in the hypogastrium, or in both these situations, and thei extending into the umbilical, iliac, and lumbar regions; spreading gei rally to one side unequally ; smooth, firm, and elastic to the touch, a fixed in the pelvis, with limits ill defined from, the presence of meteoi mus. The cervix uteri cannot at first be felt by the finger in the vac'it which latter is very sensitive, and almost obliterated by a large doug: or semi-fluctuating tumour. In the great majority of cases tlie cervix. displaced forwards and against the symphysis pubis, but the body of t uterus cannot generally be followed. In exceptional cases, the tumour: felt projecting laterally or even in front of the vagina and uterus, whio is then pushed to the side or backwards. On examination per rectum, ti same tumour is found pressing the anterior wall against the posterior,'at sometimes completely obstructing the canal. With one finger in' tl rectum, and the thumb of the same hand in the vagina, the'thickne and density of the intervening portion of the tumour may often 1: determined, and whether there be fluctuation or not. Eecamier and Tf strongly insist on the utihty of this mode of examination, especially in tl diagnosis of medium-sized tumours, which are not large enough to rk above the brim of the pelvis, and may be small enough to escape identil cation by the finger in the rectum or vagina. In obscure cases, and there be no po.ssibility of the tumour being a retroverted gravid uteru: an exploring needle may be employed. A third class of cases—an probably by fiir the most common of all forms of hajmatocele—is cha racterised by symptoms essentially the same as in the last, but ii a much milder and more chronic form. The pain is slight, the feve moderate, tlie effusion is seldom large enough to be felt above th pubis, but is detected on vaginal examination in the neighbourlioo( of the uterus, and most often in the cul-de-sac of Douglas. A fev days, or at most a few weeks, suflice for recovery, the tumour disappearing almost as quickly as it formed. These are the cases most difficult o diagnosis, and are very liable to be mistaken for pelvic abscess or ovariar tumours. For a correct diagnosis, an accurate knowledge of the history o the case, and especially of the exact mode in which the attack commenced, is essential. The resemblance to other diseases is sometimes so close that V405 POLYPUS OP THE UTEKUS. however carefully the symptoms present may be investigated, it will be found most difficult to distinguish between this and other pelvic tumours. The diseases for which it is most liable to be mistaken are—(i) Betro- version of tie uterus. From this it may be distinguished by the far greater severity of the symptoms, by the absence of dysuria and of the sio-ns of pregnancy, and by a very cautious use of the uterine sound. (2) Pelvic cellulitis. Here the diagnosis is more difficult, for in each case there are symptoms of local peritonitis, with fever and the formation of a tumour. The history of the case will generally decide the doubt. Cel- lulitis generally succeeds childbirth or miscarriage ; the tumour is preceded by febrile symptoms, is slow in formation, always hard at first, and gene- rally is more diffused than the hematocele, and is very rarely behind the cervix uteri. (3) Ovarian cysts, and especially sanguineoits cysts of tlie ovary, sometimes descend into the retro-uterine pouch of the peritoneum, and communicate the same sensation to the finger as the lijEmatocele. But in most cases, the uterus is displaced downwards, and to the opposite side of the ovarian tumour. If peritonitis occur, and the history be im- perfect, the diagnosis must be regarded as almost impossible. (4) M. Bernutz cites a case under M. Groupil in which the differential diagnosis h&iween fibrous tumour of the uterus and pelvic heematocele could not be established, so many features did the case possess in common with both these diseases. Here, again, the diagnosis will be much aided by the use of the exploring needle. ThQ prognosis can rarely be favorable, and in cases of menstrual reten- tion, where regurgitation of the fluid has occurred, or in rupture of the sac from extia-uterine foetation, death almost invariably results. The treat- ment, 'm the first stage, consists in keepingthe patient strictly at rest, applying cold to the abdomen, and administering stimulants and opium. The peri- tonitis of the second stage must be carefully watched and treated with opium. If the tumour increase in size, the propriety of puncturing the cyst should be considered. In favour of this it may be urged that it relieves at once and most completely the painful symptoms caused by the pressure, and that, the tension removed, absorption of the remainder quickl}' follows. Prof. Braun and Dr. Matthews Duncan support this opinion. On the other hand, the dangers of the operation, pointed out by M. Bernutz and Dr. M'Clintock, are the possibility of wounding a blood- vessel in the vagina or cervix uteri, and the admission of air by the wound, giving rise to pyajmia. Of 25 cases in which the operation was per- formed only 2 died ; all derived immediate relief, and 23 recovered. POLYPUS OP THE UTEEUS. Dr. Marion Sims, " On Uterine Polypi" (' Lancet,' vol. 2, 1864, pp. 457—542). Mr. Hutchinson, " On Uterine Polypus " (Holmes' ' System of Sur- gery,' vol. 4, p. 497). Uterine polypi may be soft or hard, mucous or fibrous. They are found in all ages above puberty—seldom before. Tiiey may grow on the OS tiucsc, in the cervical canal, or in the cavity of the uterus. MucousUEl'OET ON MIDWIFEIiy, ETC. 406 polypi seldom grow large, but the fibrous, if undetected, freque: attain an enormous size. They often, but not necessarily, prevent ception. In the case of small polypi growing from either lip of th or from the canal of the cervix. Dr. Sims advocates excision by scissors rather than torsion, and the subsequent application to the surface ol' lint saturated in a solution of perchloride of iron. ' should not be removed until thrown off by suppuration. A little co li ji or liut soaked in glycerine is applied daily till the wound be het;. i This glycerine dressing, when applied to a pyogenic surface on th, 5 k or cer\dx uteri, produces a copious serous discharge, which depletef •; i tissues with which it lies in contact, and gives them a dry, clean, I i healthy appearance. Dr. Sims strongly condemns the operation by ligature, and in the case of large intra-uterine polypi recommends- dilatation of the cervix by sponge-tents, and the removal of the pob by Chassaignac's ecraseur, to which he has added a porte-chaine. invention overcomes the previous objection to the use of this iat ment, and may be described as a pair of dilating forceps, with sp blades, which render the chain stiff, so that it may be passed stra-1 into the vagina or into the cavity of the uterus as easily as a soun. probang. The chain is afterwards expanded by the blades of: forceps. In cases of intra-uterine polypi, attached by a short tt pedicle at, or near to the fundus, great care should be taken no lacerate the polypus by traction. The author relates a case of this in which it was found impossible to fix the chain round the pedii tbe tumour was much lacerated, and death resulted from pyaemia, tbe other hand, extreme exhaustion is no barrier to the operation tbe ecraseur, since by this the danger of primary or secondary hxi rbage is reduced to the minimum. The following case is a j example of this :—A woman was extremely prostrated by menorrb of many years' duration, and by a profuse muco-purulent vaginal charge, which had existed for 6 or 8 months, whenever the ha'morr: ceased. The uterus was found retroverted and much enlarged, fundus filling up the hollow of the sacrum. The finger introd through the cervix detected an enormous fibrous polypus, retaine utero by the retroflexion. Five days later, after violent expu pains, she passed into a state of complete exhaustion. A profuse d oflensive, sero-sanguinolent discharge flowed from the vagina, the j was small and rapid, she was ansBniic, and presented all the appeara. of blood-poisoning. The vagina was found filled with an imm( decomposing, fibroid polypus, with the pedicle attached (as is most ut; to the anterior wall of the uterus. Ecrasement was at once perfoi' i by the author, and this, with vaginal washes, wine, and generous- soon completed the cure. Mr. Hutchinson points out the importance of examining the va<. both by the finger and by the speculum, whenever frequeut and 1 continued irregular metrorrhagia has occurred and has resisted ordi treatment. In such cases, if polypus exist, one of the following ditions may be found:—(«) A sessile soft growth, of small size, taining one or more mucous cysts, consisting of enlarged utf follicles and hypertrophied cellular tissue. Dr. E. Leo states (' Ml ) t407 DISEASES OF THE OVAEIES. Chir. Traus.,' vol. 19, p. 127) that oue of the glandulte Dabothi may be converted into a cyst as large as a waluut, or eveu as a heu's egg, and haug by a slender peduncle, (b) A pedunculated growth of small size (a bean or nut), soft, vascular, and often multiple, consisting of pendulous mucous membrane, and analogous to the mucous polypus of the nares. (c) A growth of finer texture and larger size than the latter (a nut to an egg), more or less pedunculated, and made up of mucous membrane, with a large excess of cellular tissue, {d) A much firmer growtli than any of the preceding, and usually a much larger one, either pedunculated or sessile, its attachment usually passing up into the interior of the uterus—the common fibrous polypus, (e) In rare instances, a form of tumour is developed within the cavity of the uterus which is closely analogous to the recurrent fibroid in other parts. This tumour grows rapidly, assumes a polypoid form, attains a large size, and causes much hsemorrhage. It can scarcely rank with true cancers, because it does not induce enlargements of the lymphatics or secondary deposits ; but it difi'ers from all the forms of simple polypus, in that it persistently grows again after removal. It, like the fibrous polypus, may be attached high up in the cavity of the uterus. Only three examples of this form of polypus are on record. Death occurred in all within seven years after the first appearance of the disease. DISEASES OF THE OTABIES. Mr. Hutchinson, "On Organic Diseases of the Ovary" (Holmes's 'System of Surgery,' vol. 4, 518). Dr. Priestley, " On Menorrhagia depending on Morbid Changes in the Ovaries" ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' i, 1863, pp. 392—445). 1.—The organic diseases of the ovary maybe classified under two groups, the solid and cystic growths : I. T\xe solid growths may be either—(i) Fibroid tumours. These are rare, and are usually small. Dense fibrous tissue first replaces, and is at length wholly substituted for, the normal stroma of the organ. (2) Malignant tumours. The form of cancer most frequent in°the ovary is alveolar or colloid, and tlie tumour thus constituted is cystic rather tlian solid. In rare instances medullary cancer occurs as a primary disease in the ovary, and a very large tumour may be thus developed. Solid pedunculated tumours of the abdomen, whether springing from the ovary or the uterus, and whether believed to be innocent or 7nalignant, should not be interfered with surgically. If innocent, they rarely cause death, and at a certain period of life almost always begin to shrink, wiiilst any attempt to remove them by abdominal section is attended by great danger. II. Cijstic disease of the ovary may occur either as simple or m?«o- liferous cysts, but the two are very closely allied, and the former mav at any time pass into the latter. Simple cysts are probably developed by the dropsical dilatation of Graafian vesicles. They may att-iin a very large size, but the compound cysts have, as n rule, a more active growth, although some have but little tendency to reproduction The408 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. compound or proliferous cyst is of much the most frequent occurrence, and is closely liomologous to the cystic disease of the orcast and testis. The alb uininous fluid contained in ovarian cysts is usually thin in simple cysts, more dense in compound ones, and pre.sentin<j great varieties in colour, from a clear watery fluid to that like tar. The sero- purulent fluid occasionally seen is more common in simple than in compound cysts, and is usually a consequence of inflammation after tap- ping. The term "alveolar or colloid cancer" has been applied,—pro- bably incorrectly,—to a not uncommon form of compound cyst, in which very numerous loculi exist, and the spaces are filled by a semi-solid tenacious substance. The term cysto-sarcoma has been applied by Miiller to those cysts in which the fibro-intercystic substance equals or exceeds in quantity the contained fluid. But all degrees of structure may be observed in diff"erent tumours and in difierent parts of the same tumour, and heuce it is impossible to divide the cystic tumours into diff'erent classes. Good typical examples of all—{a) the single, simple cyst; {h) the simple but multiple cyst; (c) the proliferous or compound cyst; (d) the same, with colloid contents; (e) the pro- liferous, with large sarcomatous formation—may frequently be met with, but in a large majority of cases ovarian tumours possess two or more of these varieties. The more active the proliferous tendency, and the further the departure from simplicity of organization, the more nearly the tumour approaches the malignant character. The dermoid cysts of the ovary, in many cases in no way connected with impregnation, and quite independent of any " included fcetation," have the power of producing in their lining membrane aU the appendages of the skin, hair, teeth, &c., and of secreting into their interior the ordinary excre- tions of that organ. 2.—The term " menorrhagia," although commonly applied to all cases in which unusual and profuse losses of blood occur from the unimpregnated uterus, is strictly applicable only to a limited number of such cases, since abnormal uterine hasmorrhage may be produced by several distinct pathological conditions, and is only one of the symptoms of disease of the uterus and its appendages. Ovarian menor- rhagia, which is of not uncommon occurrence, is so designated because the ovaries are supposed to take the initiative in the production of the morbid flow of blood from the uterus, just as they do in the production of the normal catamenial discharge. Various circumstances may con- duce to excite a state of hyperemia in the uterus and ovaries at the catamenial period, which may thus cause menstruation to be excessive in degree or prolonged, or both excessive and prolonged. But, further, if one or both ovaries become congested, whatever be the cause, uterine hemorrhage may result at any time in the interval between the cata- menial periods. In this way an irregular and morbid form of men- struation may result, and yet the phenomena occurring—so far as anatomical conditions are concerned—in the same order as durmg healthy menstruation. Congestion and inflammation of the ovaries are not, however, always accompanied by menorrhagia, and in such cases the primary cause of the ha3morrhag'e is not always easy to discover. "When no fibroid tumour is present, when there is no polypus, noDISEASES OP THE OVAUIES. 409 cancer, or other of the graver diseases which are commonly attended by htemorrhage, the uterus may become congested from some derange- ment in the chylopoietic viscera, and hajmorrhage from the uterine mucous membrane is the result. Or the general condition of the blood may be so deteriorated and impoverished by kidney disease, or some otlier debilitating cause, that it can scarcely be retained in its customary channels, and so escapes from the uterus, because, in addition to the influence of gravitation, its mucous membrane is so constructed that blood can be easily poured out on its surface. Again, persistent con- gestion and even hypertrophy of the uterus are liable to result from such attacks of ovarian irritation as lead to uterine congestion and haemorrhage. The tendency to haemorrhage is hence increased, and the diagnosis rendered the more difficult. In some patients, ovarian irrita- tion manifests itself as one of the forms of dysmenorrhoea, the regular periods being attended with much pain and large losses of blood; yet the haemorrhage occurs only at these times, and subsides when the period is past. In these cases the symptoms are not usually explained by the condition of the uterus, but one or other ovary may frequently be felt prolapsed into the retro-uterine cul-de-sac, enlarged and sensi- tive to touch, in the interval between the periods, but especially so before and during menstruation. The discharge is sometimes mixed, not only with coagula, but with distinct membranous shreds ; and some authors regard this mem- branous dysmenorrhoea rather as the result of uterine congestion not primarily dependent on ovarian irritation. Eigby held an opposite opinion, and believed that the membranes, which are only the separated mucous lamina) from the interior of the uterus, were formed in sympathy with morbid changes occurring in the ovary, just as the true decidua ia formed in consonance with those physiological changes which take place as the result of impregnation. The author believes ovarian menorrhagia is, in many cases, closely connected with "pelvic hae- matocele," since the subjects of the latter condition habitually men- struate profusely, and ia a large proportion of cases menorrhagia precedes the extravasation of blood and the development of the attendant symptoms. In the statistics on hematocele which have been collected by M. Voisin * we find that the extravasation of blood was occasioned by rupture of the ovary, or some of the vessels leading to it, in two thirds of the patients affected, and that in a considerable pro- portion of the cases the ovary had undergone some antecedent softening or degeneration, the progress of which had probably provoked the previous sympathetic menorrhagia. In some cases of ovarian menorrhagia the author has had reason to believe that blood has escaped into the peritoneal cavity from rupture of the ovarian vessels, giving rise to acute symptoms, but not being sufficient in quantity to form such a tumour as is understood by the term hacmatocele, and of this he adduces a case in point. The causes of ovarian menorrhagia may be briefly stated to be those producing morbid congestion of the ovaries, viz., imperfect recovery ' De riiscmatocele retro-uterine,' i860.410 M-POllT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. after delivery, tlie occurrence of abortion in tlie early moutlis, when the ovary is yet larfre from the preaenco of a corpus luteum, and readily becomes morbidly congested at a subsequent menstrual period- a sudden chill during the period itself, or in the interval, and undue sexual excitement, not followed by pregnancy, which leads in many cases to permanent ovarian congestion. Absolute rest in the recumbent position, with astringents and the local application of sedatives, will form the appropriate treatment during the attack; while the local abstraction of blood in the interval, with laxatives and tonics, and the avoidance of all sexual excitement, will be most likely to lead to a successful result. OVAEIOTOMy. Dr. West, " On Ovariotomy " (' Diseases of Women,' 3rd edit., 186j). Mr. Hutchinson, "On Ovariotomy" (Holmes' 'System of Surgery,' vol. 4, p. 526). Dr. E. U. Peaslee, " Successful Case of Double Ovariotomy" ('Amer. Journ. of Med.,' July, 1864). Prof. Simpson, " On Ovariotomy, and First Tappings in Ovarian Dropsy" ('Ed. Med. Journ.,' March, 1864). I.—Dr. West modifies his former opinions, and now admits ovariotomy as a legitimate operation. He thus sums up the indications and contra- indications for the operation:—(i) It is not to be performed in any case of single cyst which is not increasing, or is increasing but slowly, while it has not as yet interfered with the patient's general health. (2) It is not, as a general rule, to be performed until after the cyst has been tapped once. The reasons for this precaution are threefold:—(a) In some rare cases the fluid does not re-collect; (h) the amount of con- stitutional disturbance which follows tapping would be some index to the amount that might be apprehended from the more serious operation; (c) when the cyst is emptied, and during the process of its re-filling, its relations, and the presence or absence of adhesions, especially to parts within the pelvis, can be more readily ascertained. It is a question whether, in the case of simple cysts, ovariotomy ought not to be further limited to cases in which trial has been made of iodine injections sufficient to prove them to be inefficacious or unsafe. (3) It is not to be performed in any case in which a tumour is felt in the pelvis, retaining the same situation, but little changed, after tapping, and from which, by means of the sound, the uterus cannot be distinctly isolated. (4) It is further contra-indicated by the presence of albumen in the urine, or at least by its persistence after tapping, and also by the early occurrence of oedema of the legs, and by the presence of any considerable quantity of ascitic fluid in the abdominal cavity. (5) The previous occurrence of cyst inflammation and general peritonitis, as evidenced by attacks of sickness, shivering, fever, and abdominal pain, with pus in the fluid evacuated by puncture, renders the success of the operation very doubtful. Occasional attacks of abdominal pain, unattended by fever or by continued tenderness, do not contra-iudicate the operation, Bince these may occur independently of inflammation.411 OVARIOTOMY. On the other hand, it is not contra-indicated—(i) by the patient's youth or age, nor by the fact of her having previously undergone several tappings, nor by the irregularity or suppression of tlie menses, since complete suppression does not prove both ovaries to be implicated. (2) It is justifiable, and to be recommended in all cases of ovarian tumour, whatever its structure, and whether its existence be of long or of short duration, and whether tapping has or has not been frequently resorted to, where the disease is steadily and progressively increasing, and when the patient's health is beginning to suffer from this increase, but, as far as can be ascertained, from no other cause independent of the local mischief. The state of the patient's own miad and wishes should have much weight in considering the operation. Dread of the issue is a bad state of mind in which to undergo such an operation; indifference, perhaps, even worse. Moral considerations must be weighed as carefully as those furnished by the character of the tumour or the history of its gi-owth. 2.—In describing the details of the operation, Mr.Hutchiuson remarks on the following occasional dilEculties and moot points of treatment:— (i) The first incision should be of medium extent—about 4 inches—and enlarged if needful. (2) Adhesions.—It is very important to detach adhe- sions as much as possible before the fluid is evacuated. If the adhesions are extensive, it is usually necessary to introduce the whole hand, and, carrying it between the peritoneum and cyst by a lateral movement, to break through all connecting bands. Not unfrequently, however, tlie more important adhesions are found behind the cyst, uniting it to the viscera or to the lumbar or pelvic peritoneum. These cannot, as a rule, be reached until the cyst has been partially emptied, and in separating them great care must be taken not to drag too forcibly on the peritoneum. Not only may injury be done by tearing up the serous membrane from its attachments, but lacerations of viscera or of large vessels may occur. The movement employed should be as much by a lateral sweep, and as little by direct traction, as possible. The peri- toneum should be supported by the other hand, or by the other finger of the same hand. It is better under all circumstances to tear rather than cut; but when important viscera are involved, it may become necessary to dissect carefully. Adhesions to the omentum are very frequent, but are for the most part easily dealt with. If very vascular, the omentum may be tied and the end brought out into tlie wound. (3) A special difficulty caused hy adhesions in front.—In cases iu which the adhesions to the parietal peritoneum at the place of incision are intimate great difficulty may occur in distinguishing the cyst. The operator may mistake the cellular interspace between the transversalis fascia and the parietal peritoneum for that between the cyst and the latter, and thus break down the connecting tissue. This error, hitherto little mentioned, has repeatedly occurred, and, if not quickly discovered, may lead to great injury; or another error may be made in avoiding this, and the surgeon may incise the visceral peritoneum of the cyst, and proceed to separate it. There is nothing to show the operator his mistake; and to avoid all risk of these two errors, the autlior advises that the wound shall be enlarged upwards, until the peritoneal cavityREPORT ON MIDWIFERYj ETC. 412 is opened at a part where no adhesions exist. "When once the operator's iiuger has touched the intestine, he may proceed to detacli adhesions without any chance of mistake. (4) Multilocular cysts.—If the cysts be very numerous, and many of them large, it will greatly expedite the operation to cut freely into the largest with a scalpel, and then introduce the hand and break down their dissepiments. (5) Prevention of escape of cyst-jhdd into the abdominal cavity is of great importance, and this is secured by turning the patient well over on to the side opposite to that from which the tumour is believed to originate. During the removal of tlie tumour an assistant should most carefully keep the edges of the wound pressed together, and after its completion a piece of flannel should be at once carried over the wound beneath the cyst. If by any chance cyst-fluid should escape into the cavity of the abdomen, it is douUtful practice to do much in the way of attempting to remove it. (6) Management of the pedicle.—The advantages and drawbacks of the different methods are thus briefly summed up :—(a) The pedicle may be ligatured and returned into the abdomen, the ends of the ligatures being brought out at the wound. The advantages of this method are, that there is no traction on the pedicle, and by leaving the ligatures on they secure an open channel for the escape of pus, and also allow of their own safe removal when loose. Its disadvantages are that the sloughy stump of the peduncle, with its attached ligatures returned into the peritoneal sac, are very likely to set up peritonitis. (5) The pedicle may be tied as before; and then, the ligatures having been cut close off, the whole may be returned, and the abdominal wound closed. In this plan it is hoped that the external wound will heal, and the portions of ligature left in the peritoneum become encysted, and cause no irritation. Nothing but the large amount of success attendant on this mode can justify its adoption. Its disadvantages are the- extreme probability of peritonitis, and the risk of haemorrhage from slipping of the ligature, (c) The peduncle may be divided by the ecraseur. The time employed in thus dividing the peduncle and the risk of subsequent intra-abdominal haemorrhage are the drawbacks to this plan. Its advantages are, that it entirely obviates the dangers incident to dragging on the peduncle, and, at the same time, leaves neither sloughy tissue nor ligatures in the peritoneal sac. {d) The end of the peduncle may be kept altogether out of the abdomen, either by ligatures or by a metal clamp. The latter instrument has the advantage that it can be applied easily and speedily, and with greater security as regards haemorrhage. The most simple, and probably the best, is one which resembles a pair of carpenter's calipers, but from which the handles are removable. It should be pressed tight with great force, and the screw by which it is fixed should be screwed dovra by forceps, to prevent all possibility of slipping. It is a good precaution to push two or three needles through the peduncle above the blades of the clamp, and absolutely essential to cut off the tumour at a considerable distance above it. In cases where the peduncle is long and slender the clamp acts most satisfactorily, but in those in which the peduncle is short, and still more in those in413 OVAMOTOMY. whicli there is scarcely any peduncle, the application of a clamp is difficult and inconvenient, and dangerous traction on the uterus and peritoneum will be caused. How best to manage short peduncles is yet to be discovered. In some cases, after the tumour has been cut away, and when the mass left on above the clamp has shrunk, the clamp may be applied somewhat higher up. For this to succeed it is necessary to have two clamps, one applied above the other. (7) Closing of the external loound.—This may be done with equal facility either by harelip pins or by silver wire. If pins are used, they must be gilt or silvered, not plain steel. The practice of Mr. Spencer Wells has proved that it is safe to pass the needles through the peritoneum ; but it may be doubted whether any material advantage is obtained. If not through the peritoneum, the ligature or pin should pass close to it through everything else. They should be inch from the edge of the incision on each side, so as to have a firm grasp. They should not be more than f inch apart, and great care should be taken to carry the lowest as close as possible to the peduncle, and, indeed, it is always well to transfix the peduncle itself, and thus secure it firmly in the wound. (8) The after-treatment y&vj accovAmg to the. special symptoms which present themselves, but the following suggestions of the author may be offered:—(i) It is very desirable, in order to avoid vomiting, that the patient should take nothing by the mouth during tlie first twelve hours excepting ice; above all, no opium or other medicine should be so given. (2) The chance of recovery has, in many instances, probably been much diminished by the too hasty and too free resort to opium and stimulants. These remedies should be given or withheld, as the patient's state may demand. In many cases, neither will be necessary. (3) If the patient be low, she should be nourished by enemata of milk or beef tea, to which, if needful, wine or brandy may be added. (4) If the stomach remain irritable for some days, the use of enemata should be continued instead of giving food by the mouth. (5) Fresh air should be admitted plentifully to the sick-room. .3-—Dr. Peaslee's case of double ovariomy is one of great interest. The adhesions were very extensive and strong, and required great force to break down. The haemorrhage was very free. The omentum was everywhere firmly adherent to the tumour. The tumour of the left ovary, the main one, was polycystic. The right ovary, also diseased, and the size of a hen's egg, was removed. " Perhaps a hundred vessels in the omentum were bleeding, and there was about a pint of blood in the abdominal cavity." Many ceased bleeding on exposure to the air. Ligatures of fine silk were applied to more than a dozen ; these were cut close and left in the peritoneal cavity. Torsion was used to many others. The wound was closed by silver sutures, long needles, and superficial silk sutures. The patient had been nearly five hours under the influence of ether ; opium was given freely. On the seventh day there were evident signs of blood poisoning. Dr. Peaslee therefore injected into the abdomen a pint of blood-warm water, and washed out more than half a pint of thick bloody matter. These injections were repeated two or three times a day during a period of 78 days. TheBEPOET ON JIIDWIFEEY, ETC. 414. fluid injected sometimes consisted of one quart of water with two draclnns of Liq. Soda) Clilorinata), and sometimes of a weak solution of common salt. Dr. Peaslee relied much on quinine and beef tea, with brandy enemata. At the end of 94 days the last ligature was removed, and the patient Avas considered to have recovered. 4.—Prof. Simpson believes that the operation of tapping for ovarian dropsy ife much more fotal than is generally represented. lie had seen two fatal cases from first tappings in 9 mouths. In one case there had been previous inflammation in the interior of the cyst, and the patient was very much reduced beforehand. The other was a case which was considered most favorable for ovariotomy, but in consequence of the husband being absent at sea it was thought desirable to tap ; this was followed by inflammation of the cyst and the death of the patient. After tap])ing there is always the double risk of inflammation being set up in the interior of the cyst, and of the peritoneum also, the former of which was removed in the operation of ovariotomy. Of 110 cases of first tapping, collected by Lee and Kiwisch, 24 died within the month, or more than i in 5. And of 20 cases collected by Mr. Southam, in- cluding 15 recorded by Drs. Bright and Barlow, without any view to such an investigation, 4 died at once, and 3 more died within a month ; and 14 in all died within 9 months after the first tapping. The following table includes the latest published results of the operation. Name of Operator. Mr. Spencer Wells Dr. Clay (Manchester) . Jlr. Baker Brown . Dr. Tyler Siuith . Dr. Keith Dr. A. Dunlap (Ohio) . llr. Bryant . Total numljcr of Recoveries. Deatlis. Mortality completed Operations. per Cent. 123 83 40 32 no 76 34 30 74 42 32 43 2S 19 6 24 20 14 6 30 19 IS 4 21 10 6 4 40 DISEASES OF CHILDEEN. CIUCULATIOK. Dr. Lewis Smith, " On the Infantile Pulse in Health" (' Amer. Med. Times,' Dec, 1863). , m The average pulse of the healthy infant, according to Trousseau, is n? in the first and second months, 128 from the 3rd to the 6th month and 120 from the 6th to the 12th month. Dr. Smith records the results of a series of observations on the pulse of infants under the acTQ of one year, ascertained by auscultation during the three conditions of sleep, wakefulness and excitement. These observations, though acTeeing closely in the main with those of Trousseau, show a uiarked dfminution of the pulse in sleep, except in the first week of li e. If the pulse of the infant when awake, but quiet, be taken as tlie standard, there is an average reduction of 21 beats per minute trora the end of the ist week till the end of the ist month, 13^ Irom415 DISEASES OF CHILDEEN. the end of tlie ist till the end of the .3rd month, 21 from the end of the 3rd till the end of the 6th, and i8f in the last half of the year. These statistics also show that the pulse in infants may hecome as rapid by the emotions, and by active exercise, as in the gravest diseases. DISEASES OP BESPIEATIOIT. Dr L. Buhl, "On Obstruction of the Air-passages, a cause of Death of the Child after Eirth" ('Klinik der Geburtsk.,' 1863). Prof Bouchut, " On Mediastinal Tuberculosis" (' Jour. f. Kinder- kraut.,' 1863, heft 9 and 10). I.—Buhl states, that of 27 children dying from mechanical causes m labour, or shortly after birth, 11 were destroyed by obstruction of the air-passages with foreign matters, or presented this condition. Eight were born dead, and of those which were alive at birth none survived the first day of life. In 10 of the cases, the obstruction was caused by a greenish or greenish-browm shining mass, which often copiously filled the cavity of the larynx, and of the trachea as far as its bifurcation, or even completely filled its branches; or it was in less quantitj'-, and permitted the passage of air and of fluids to an insignifi- cant extent. In the former class, 6 cases, the lungs had their foetal position and texture unaltered; in the latter class, more or less nume- rous, small portions of lung were filled with air. Only in two, who died during parturition, could air be shown to be present in the lungs; but in only one of these two was the distension of the air-cells the result of instinctive respiratory movements; in the other air had been artificially injected. The parenchyma of the lungs, in the cases where they con- tained air, had a brownish-yellow discoloration, and from the surface of a section there could be expressed a similarly coloured, finely spumous fluid. Microscopical examination of the matters found in the air- passages always showed the presence of yellow, golden-reddish nuclei of colouring matter, of different sizes and irregular forms, very frequently of tabulae of cholesterine, fat-drops, and cylindrical cells—circum- stances which left no doubt that the substance examined was me- conium. The superficial inspection of the larger tracheal i^lugs, and their comparison with the contents of the colon in the first instance, removed all doubt on the point, especially as the throat, mouth, and nose, were filled with the same, and the whole body and umbilical cord were smeared with it, and had from it a greenish tint. This condition of the skin almost establishes the diagnosis of the cause of the death before the autopsy is made. To complete the proof that the greenish coloration of the_ skin and of the contents of the air-passages is pro- duced by meconium it is only necessary to add that this normal content of the child's large bowel was found only in the rectum, or was altogether absent. It is Avorthy of notice, that in cases where repeated attempts at respiration were made particles of meconium were always found, even in the parenchyma of the lungs, having been drawn as far as the air-cells themselves. In the pleural covermg there were found small hremorrhages corresponding to the larger accumu-REPORT ON WIDWIFKRY, ETC. lations of these foreign matters, but lungs that remained in tlieir entirely footal condition showed only punctiforin lucmorrhages. In two cases both cavities of tlie chest were filled with yellowish-red serum. From the researches of Hecker, Schwartz, and others, on pre- mature respiratory movements, there cannot be a doubt that meconium reaches the air-passages only by inspiration, an instinctive intra- iiterine act. 2.—Prof Bouchut gives the following summary of his views:—i.Tuber- culosis of the bronchial glands—a very common complication of tuber- culosis of the lungs in children—is very rare as a primary or isolated affection. 2. The inflammations of the bronchial tubes and of the lungs are, in children of scrofulous diathesis, the exciting cause of the de- position of tuberculous matter in the bronchial glands. 3. No per- ceptible functional disturbance is in any way produced by this depo- sition in a single bronchial gland. It is only when several glands together, in consequence of this transformation, form a considerable mass in the mediastinum, that the neighbouring organs are pressed on by this mass, and then disturbances manifest themselves as the result of this pressure. 4. Compression of the bronchi, flattening of the large vessels, displacement of the oesophagus, and tension of the par vagum, are the most important mechanical effects of this pressure; but, as can well be imagined, the most serious and alarming symptoms arise from it, and from these alone the diagnosis may, in some measure, be made. 5. Qlldema of the face, with enlargement of the cervical veins, epistaxis, or hajmoptysis, in children, may lead to the supposition that the superior vena cava and the pulmonary artery suffer pressure from some swelling, and that such pressure probably only proceeds from a tuberculous mass. 6. If a child have attacks of asthma, without disease of the heart or lungs being discovered, we have reason to fear the existence of a me- diastinal tuberculosis. 7. Diminution or feebleness of the respiratory murmur in a lung-segment, accompanied with coexisting dulness over the sternum, increases the supposition of a mediastinal tuberculosis, and the consequent produced compression of the bronchi. 8. It' tuberculosis of the lungs does not supervene and produce consumption, then the tuberculosis of the bronchial glands may alone result in a cure, especially by cretaceous degeneration; but this issue is very rare, and death here also results from sudden asphyxia or from ha)moptysis.REPORT TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. BT C. HILTON EAGGE, M.D., DEilOIiSTEATOB OF AlfATOMY AND LEOTTJEEE ON EXPEEIMENTAL PHILOSOPHY AT GTJy'S HOSPITAL; PHYSICIAN TO THE EOYAL INPIEMAEY FOE THE DISEASES OF CHILDEEN. GENEBAL THEKAPEUTICS. Ik a work entitled ' Stimulants and Narcotics, their Mutual Rela- tions' (1864, Macmillan & Co.), Dr. Anstie endeavours to attach a more precise signification to these terms. He first gives an historical account of the various meanings under which the word " stimulation" has been used by different writers, in which he shows that the ordinary- classification of remedies is based on metaphysical theories which will not stand the test of investigation at the j^resent day. He then pro- ceeds to criticise the diiferent phenomena which have been regarded as proofs of the operation of a stimulus upon the organism. He thinks that the mental excitement produced by certain substances is not caused by stimulation of the brain, but is rather due to a poisonous and depressing action on the intellect, by which its control over the emo- tional and appetitive part of the mind is diminished. 'J'aking neuralgia as a typical form, he shows that pain and increased sensibility are likewise effects of depressed vitality rather than of stimulation, and that this is true also of convulsive movements and of excessive secretion. The causes of acceleration of the pulse are next considered. He believes that when this is slight, and when the strength of the heart's action is at the same time maintained or increased, it is to be regarded as an effect of stimulation; but that too great rapidity always implies debility. Excess of formative action and of nutrition are equally far from being caused by stimuli. Having thus cleared tlie ground, Dr. Anstie then proceeds in the endeavour to reconstruct a theory of stimulation on a firmer basis. He quotes John Hunter's definition of stimuli as " agents which increase some natural action or tendency, as opposed to irritants, which produce 27418 HEPORT on toxicology and materia MEDICA. actions wliicli are altogetlier abnormal," and he proposes to talce tlie idea of stimulation, " not from the notion of a sharp thorn plunged sud- denly into a sensitive tissue, but from that of a goad applied to the sullen ox, whose sensibilities it wounds no further than is sufficient to remind him of work which he has to do, aud which he can do very well if he likes to try." He gives the following as the genuine elFects of stimula- tion:—Eelief of pain; removal of muscular spasm, tremor, or convulsion ; reduction of undue frequency of the circulation ; reduction of excess in secretion ; removal of general debility, or of special fatigue of muscles, brain, or digestive organs ; removal of delirium or maniacal excitement, and production of healthy sleep; support of the organism in the absence of ordinary food; and, lastly, local increase of nutrition, where this is deficient. The agents which he classifies as stimulants according to this view are as follows:-—-i, Quickly digested and nutritious food. 2. Opium, ill doses of i to 2 grains; or morphia, in doses of a t to 4 a grain. 3. Carbonate and muriate of ammonia, in doses of 5 and 10 grains respectively. 4. Alcohol, in doses just too small to produce flushing of the face or sweating of the brow. 5. Chloroform inhaled (in the proportion of about two parts in the hundred of air) for a short time, or taken internally, in doses of a few drops. 6. Certain fetid gum-resins. 7. Many aromatic volatile oils. 8. The bitters, pure and aromatic. 9. " Counter-irritation," as it is called—stimulation, as it should be termed—through the adjacent skin, with mustard, turpen- tine, &c., or with blisters. It will be seen that the doses which produce stimulant efiects are given in many instances. -This forms, indeed, an important part of Dr. Anstie's views. Many of the substances which he classifies as stimu- lants are capable also of producing narcotic effects ; but Dr. Anstie says that this depends altogether upon the quantity taken, aud that the effect of a large dose is not physiologically continuous (so to speak) with that of a small quantity, but is of a totally difterent nature. Thus, he finds that opium taken in doses of a grain to 2 grains when he is hungry has a most remarkable influence in dispelling the desire for food, substituting for it a warm and comfortable feeling over the whole body, which lasts an hour or an hour aud a half, aud on subsiding leaves no trace of depression, except that caused by hunger. "When suffering from influenza-like catarrh, attended with great depression, he experiences similar beneficial eftects from opium ; but if the quantity be increased, with the idea of making 'the cure more certain, the narcotic action comes into play, and the remedy fails. In doses of 5 grains the action of carbonate of ammonia is, he says, identical with that of gram- doses of opium, with the exception of difterences in their taste and in the rapidity of their diffusion. He finds that the power of relieving pain possessed by ammonia is equal to that of opium, even when the pain is of an inflammatory kind; and alcohol exerts a similar action. He also relates a case of peritonitis, in which the injection of strong soup into the rectum gave marked relief to the pain, as a proot that food is rightly placed at the head of his list of stimulants. Again, chloroform is found to cut short epileptic fits m doses far too small to produce narcotic effects, and he ascribes this to a stmiulant419 GENERAL THERAPEUTICS. action. Similarly, a dose of ammonia or of brandy aud water is often found to ward off an impending epileptic fit, aud wine or brandy, in minute doses, has a most marlced effect in arresting the convulsions of children. Delirium, again, is often checked by the action of stimulants, as was clearly proved by the practice of Dr. Todd. The effects of stimulants and of foods being thus very similar, Dr. Austie proceeds to discuss whether they present any points of difference. He denies altogether that stimulation leads invariably to reaction. He shows that the notion of a depressive recoil, following the action of stimuli, had its origin in the old vitalistic ideas, and that its occurrence is not required to make perfect the more modern theories. As a matter of fact, he shows that no depression occurs after the ingestion of a glass or two of wine, or of a small quantity of ammonia, or after taking a hot bath. Their effects after a time subside, just as do those of food, but they leave no depression behind them. It might appear to be an important difference between stimulants and foods that stimulant drugs make no considerable increment to the bulk of the tissues, but there is some evidence to prove that, under some circumstances, stimu- lants can take the place of ordinary food. Dr. Anstie relates cases of acute disease in wliich nothing but brandy or gin was taken for several days, and yet the patient recovered without much emaciation. He also records an extraordinary case, in which, according to the evidence, an old man lived for years on a bottle of gin daily, with only a small finger- length of bread and a few pipes of tobacco. Dr. Anstie does not ap- pear to believe that this action of alcohol and of similar substances is due to a power of diminishing the amount of chemical change which occurs in the different tissues. Passing on to the discussion of nai'cosis, Dr. Anstie considers that narcotics are best defined as deadening agents which diminish the activity of the nervous system, and whose direct tendency is, therefore, to pro- duce death. He thinks that there is no advantage in separating seda- tives from narcotics ; and he uses the two terms as synonymous. Two of the agents said to be most markedly sedative, tobacco and digitalis, are regarded by him as stimulants when administered in certain doses ; and he shows that the shock-like action on the heart is not peculiar to these and similar drugs, for under some circumstances opium may pro- duce like efiects. This sudden depression of the heart'.s action depends very much on the dose and on the circumstances under which it is taken. The production of sleep, for which he uses the word " hypnotism," is not, according to Dr. Anstie, among the effects caused by narcotics. Their tendency is to produce coma, and he regards even the slighter forms of this, though they resemble sleep, as essentially different from it. He includes, however, among the eflects of narcotics, not only clonic, but also tetanic, spasms, chiefly on the ground that they are produced in the lower animals, and sometimes in the human subject, by the action of true narcotics, such as opium. The next point which he proceeds to consider is the relation between the stimulant and narcotic action of the same substances, such as opium aud alcohol. If alcohol be taken in small quantities, frequentlyEEPORT ON TOXICOr.OGY AND MATERIA IIEDICA. 420 repeated, the first action will be of a stiimilant kind, not because such eft'ecta necessarily precede the narcotic symptoms, but because the blood at first contains only that quantity of the substance which pro- duces stimulant effects ; and even when a single large dose is swal- lowed the stimulant action will often appear before the narcotic, in consequence of the complete absorption of the substance requir- ing time. Inebriation is regarded by Dr. Anstie, not as a stimu- lant, but as a narcotic effect; and be supports this view by a careful analysis of the action of alcohol, chloroform, and hashish. From these he concludes that inebriation essentially consists in the destruction of the capacity of the brain for retaining or recalling moral and prudential impressions, and also for any kind of continuous intellectual labour; and that the apparent excitement of the emotions and desires is, in fact, but the unveiling of the lower part of our nature, which is in all men more or less ready to show itself when the customary checks are removed. Another curious set of phenomena belonging to inebriation are classified under the head of involuntaiy reminiscence, and are like- wise ascribed to arrest of the higher functions of the brain. The next chapter treats of certain bodily conditions which are un- favorable to the production of narcosis, and in which the substance, though taken in large quantities, fails to exert a narcotic action. The poison-line is shifted by the circumstances of the individual, as when large quantities of alcohol are administered in fevers or when large doses of opium are given in tetanus. Of this Dr. Anstie gives no ex- planation. The influence of habit, in enabling the system to bear large quantities of these substances is, he believes, due to a degradation in structure of the brain-substance, which renders the organ less sensitive to the action of the narcotic. The last part of the book contains a series of special researches on the action of ether, chloroform, and alcohol. Dr. Anstie denies that a " period of excitement," as indicating an early stage separate from the " period of anfesthesia," occurs during the production of narcosis by these agents. The muscular rigidity, the half-delirious movements, the incoherent talk, and the hysteric laughter, observed in these cases, do not, he says, occur till the signs of advancing paralysis have already developed themselves. Among tlie points in which Dr. Anstie differs from most physiologists is his opinion as to the action of narcotics upon the pupil. He adopts the view of Eouget, that the iris is an erectile tissue, and he regards contraction and dilatation, not as opposed con- ditions, but as depending upon the degree of action of the poison upon the cranial sympathetic system. Hence he greatly doubts the theoretical accuracy of the supposition that opium is likely to be an antidote for belladonna, or vice versd. BniTISn PIIAKMACOPOSIA. Much has been written on this subject in the medical ])eriodicals of the past year. Dr. Garrod's lectures before the College of Physicians are given in the 'Med. Times and Gaz.' (1864, vol. i, p. 113 et seq.). Lectures on the chemical processes and preparations, by Prof. Red-INOHGAXIC SUBSTANCES. 421 wood, are published in the ' Pharm. Jouru.' (j, p. 406 et seq.) ; and another course on the organic materia medica, by Prof. Bentley, is given in the same periodical (p. 416 ef scq.). The ' Lancet' also con- tains a series of " Critical and explanatory comments on the new Piiar- macopceia," commencing in vol. i, 1864, p. 78. TJfOKGANIC SUBSTANCES. Carbonic Oxide Gas. Dr Marten publishes, in ' Casper's Vjhrschrft.' (25, p. 197) several eases in which severe symptoms arose, apparently from the inhalation of this gas. The first was that of a man, ffit. 61, who, after writing for some hours in his bureau in a smelting-house, was attacked with sudden pain in tlie head, giddiness and trembling, so that he fell to the ground soon after leaving his office. His pupils were dilated and in- sensible. He vomited, his breathing was stertorous, and he was quite unconscious. He did not recover his consciousness till the 3rd day. His memory was then much impaired; not only did he remember nothing of his attack, but he could not answer questions correctly for 2 days, and he was not able to resume his occupation for a month. Both Dr. Marten, who was summoned when this man was first attacked, and several other persons, suffered from slighter symptoms of the same nature, including, in several instances, clonic spasms of the extremities. These persons recovered their senses in from a quarter to half an hour, and on the following day were pretty well, complaining only of weak- ness and of headache, or of a confused feeling in the head. The cause of these attacks remained for a time obscure, but 4 days afterwards the fire of the forge suddenly fell 2 feet. In order to ascer- tain the cause of this a deep trench was dug, and it was then found that under the hard floor there was a layer of slag 5 feet in thickness, which had become red hot. The gases which were generated by the combustion were prevented from escaping by the compactness of the floor. A channel, however, which was filled with loose cinders, led from the furnace towards th& bureau. Along this the gases probably passed, and, accumulating beneath the floor of the bureau, passed between the planks into the room. The quantity of gas must have been considerable, for several of the windows of the bureau were broken, and one had an aperture of 2 square feet in it. The gas probably consisted chiefly of carbonic oxide. This gas was found to be present in the pro- portion of '0695 in 1000 in air taken from the bureau 4 days later, after all apertures into the room had been closed for some time. It is worth mentioning that blood taken from the arm of the man whose symptoms were most severe presented the ordinary appearance of venous blood, as Bernard has stated that in poisoning by carbonic oxide the blood ia reddened. Dr. Marten has visited Dortmund, where metallic zinc is obtained from blende. The woricmen there frequently suffer from the action of carbonic oxide gas. The symptoms caused by it are pain in the head, giddiness, depression, swoons (which last a shorter or longer time, and arc followed by vomiting), trembling, and so great weakness that the men are obliged to leave oft' work.hepotit on toxicology anu materia medica. Oxalic Acid. Mr. R. Ellis relates (' Laucet,' i8(54, 2, p. 2^,5) a case of poisoniug hj oxalic acid in which recovery took place, "although the quantity taken was accurately ascertained to be very nearly an ounce. The subject was a woman, aged about 50 years, who swallowed the poison in some beer. The usual symptoms came on in a few minutes, and treatment was commenced within half an iiour. But few cases of recovery after so large a dose of this poison have hitherto been recorded. Iodine. A discussion appears to be going on in Italy between M. Bellini, of riorenee, and M. de Eenzi, of Naples, on the question whether iodine, ■when absorbed into the human circulation, can remain in the uncom- bined state, or whether it always becomes converted into iodic and hydriodic acids and their salts. M. de Pietra Santa, in a letter to M. C. Bernard (' Union Med.,' 20, p. 481), gives a resume of the chief points in this controversy. M. Bellini, who experimented on rabbits and on guinea-pigs, believes that iodine enters into combination as soon as it has been absorbed into the blood. M. de Eenzi opposes these conclusions; he places 2 or 3 grains of iodine in the mouth of frogs, and finds that the blood-cor- puscles, seen under the microscope, assume a yellow colour, which could only be due to free iodine. He also asserts that wlien iodine and an alkali are mixed some time passes before they combine so completely that starch-paper ceases to give the blue colour. MM. Bellini and Pacini dispute these facts, and they also say that results obtained from frogs are not necessarily applicable to the higher animals. They find that a kilogramme of blood ahnost instantaneously converts 4 grammes of iodine into iodides and iodates, without losing its alkalinity. Ac- cording to these data, 160 grammes (more than 5 ounces) of iodine could be at once converted into salts by the amount of blood in the liuman body. Now, 24 grains of iodine kill a rabbit in a few hours. A portion of the iodine is found in an uucombined state in the stomach, but the blood, the \irine, and the tissues, contain only its salts. It therefore, appears certain that death must occur in man long before the blood became so loaded with iodine that any of that element would remain in it in the free state. Bearing, perhaps, upon this question is a case recorded b}' Dr. Concato. He injected an ovarian cyst with iodine. In the evening the skin of the patient assumed a marked yellow colour, which lasted five or six days, and tlien rapidly disappeared. The conjunctiva was not coloured, and tliere Avas no evidence of any hepatic affection, but it was not conclusively shown that the coloration was not that of jaundice. Dr. Gillespie relates ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, 2, p. 488) a case in which death followed the application of a saturated tincture of iodine once to each side of the face over an enlarged parotid gland. In live hours vomiting and purging came on ; suppression of urine, great iINORGANIC SUBSTANCES. 423 restlessness and anxiety, a burning sensation in the abdomen, and great thirst, M-ere among the other symptoms ; and the patient, a native of Mauritius, died at the end of about 30 hours. The chief post-mortem appearance was au ecchymosed state of the mucous membrane of the stomach and small intestines. The urine found in the bladder gave slight indications of the presence of iodine. Iodide of Potassium.—My. Clayton ('Phar. Journ.,' 6, p. 214) has investigated the purity of 15 specimens of this salt, obtained from different English and foreign druggists. He found very few impurities. Bromide of potassium was not present in a single instance. lodate of potash was absent in all the English samples, and in all but two of the foreign ones. The amount of moisture varied from '6 to ,3*7 per cent.: it was noticed to be greater when the salt had been crystal- lized from spirit. Pliosphorus. Dr. Tiingel relates ('Virchow's Archiv,' 30, p. 270) an instance of poisoning by this agent, in which the fatal termination occurred much more rapidly than is usually the case. A gii-l was brought at 9 p. m., of the 14th April, into the hospital at Hamburg. She was in a state of collapse. Her breath smelt strongly of phosphorus, which led to the conclusion that she was poisoned by that substance. In half an hour she died. It w'as learnt afterwards that she had bought a box of phos- phuretted matches that morning, and she could not well have taken the poison before 12 o'clock noon. On the surface of both lungs a few small ecchymoses were found, but none existed on the pericardium or on the peritoneum. The mucous membrane of the stomach was not iu the least degree reddened, and was quite healthy. There was no trace of inflammation in any part of the alimentary canal. The blood was dark and fluid. The structure of the liver, kidneys, and heart, was healthy. Abundance of phosphorus -was detected by Mitscherlich's test in the contents of the intestines. The liver also gave distinct evidence of its presence, though in smaller quantity. Arsenic. M. Ollivier ('Gaz. Med. de Paris,' 18, p. 704) records the fol- low^ing case of poisoning by arseniuretted hydrogen. The subject was a young man employed in a manufactory of chemical products, who was maldng some investigations as to the aniline colours. In one of these experiments a considerable quantity of arseniuretted hydrogen was set free, and was diffused in the air of the room. He began work at 7.30 a.m. About 8.30 he felt a violent headache, w-hich compelled him to open the window ; but he nevertheless continued working till 10.30, when he had breakfast. An hour later the headache increased, and pain at the epigastrium came on, with vomiting of the food con- tained iu the stomach. He was taken to the Cbarite about 2 p.m. His face and lips were tiien pale, and his extremities cold. He com- plained of thirst, sense of constriction at the base of the chest, intense frontal headache, and severe pain in the loins. There was no pain or424 llEPOUT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATEaiA MEDICA. tenderness in the abdomen. He was treated with diuretics and a pur- gative drauglit, and at lo p.m. was bled to 500 grammes, with great relief. The uriue was abundant iind of a red colour, but free from blood. The next day there was still a little headache, but the lumbar pain had disappeared. Tiio patient was dull, and slow in answering questions. Ho passed no urine. On the following day a small quantity of red urine was passed, but on the fourth day none was excreted. On the fifth day he was much worse; he could scarcely answer the questions that were put to hira. His tongue was dry and brown, and was with difBculty protruded from the mouth; his face was of a yellowish-brown colour. There was still no uriue. He died the same evening at 6 o'clock. The post-mortem examination threw very little light on the case. There were no ecchymoses of the pleura or peritoneum. The stomach contained a gi'eenish liquid, similar to that vomited. The intestines were not injected. The liver was large and congested; its cells unaltered. The spleen soft. The kidneys large and congested, especially the tubules, in which the cells were granular, and contained a few fatty globules. The bladder contained some reddish urine. Dr. Taylor (' Guy's Hosp. Rep.,' 1864, p. 220) relates a case of fatal poisoning by the external application of arsenic; he also gives details of several similar instances, derived from different sources. His case is that of a girl, set. 7, whose mother rubbed an ointment containing a large quantity of arsenious acid and of white precipitate into the scalp, for the pvirpose of killing lice. No serious eflects appear to have been produced for five days, but no medical man was called in till just before the child's death, so that the history of the case is doubtful. Even when the child became ill there were none of the ordinary symp- toms of poisoning, and she did not complain of pain till the eighth day, when diarrhoea also came on. Vomiting was altogether absent, but she became collapsed, and on the following day she died without con- vulsion. The scalp of the child was found to contain a large quantity of arsenic, two or three grains being estimated to be present in the portion of scalp examined. White precipitate was also present. The chief point of interest in the case was the question wliether arsenic was also administered internally. Dr. Taylor decided this in the negative, on the ground that the lining membrane of the stomach, though showing some inflammatory patches at the greater end, was not softened nor ulcerated, and presented no spots or streaks of irritation. The contents were slightly acid, and of a brownish colour. No solid arsenic was present, but traces of that poison were foimd, not only in the stomach and intestines and in the liver, but also in the contents of the stomach, intimately combined with mucus. No mercury was detected in the viscera or in the mucous fluids. Dr. Briskeu reports a case ('Casper's Vjhrschrft.,' 21;, p. iii) in which death apparently resulted from the introduction of some prepa- ration of arsenic into the vagina, though the quantity used was not ascertained. The subject was a woman, a?t. 25, who succeeded in bringing on an abortion, which was followed by niucli haimorrhage. She afterwards suffered from abdominal pain, vomiting, &c., and laterIXOUGANIC SUBSTANCES. 425 from cramps, cold sweats, and great depression. She died on the eighteenth day after the abortion; among the hiter symptoms were delirium and a feeling of constriction in the throat. Nine days before, the medical attendant had removed from the vagina some foreign sub- stance. This was not examined till after her death, and was then found to contain a considerable quantity of arsenic. The body was therefore examined. Arsenic was detected in the uterus and vagina, and also in the stomach and intestines. The other organs gave no evidence of it3 presence. The woman probably placed the poison in the vagina herself, with the idea of killing the foetus, for she had reasons for wishing her husband to be ignorant of her pregnancy. Apparently she was unawai'e that her OAvn life might be endangered by the absorption of the arsenic. Prof Maschka (' Prag. Vjhrschrft.,' 1864, i, p. 68) records the more important of the different medico-legal cases which came before him in the space of a year, from July, 1862, to July, 1863. Their total number was 167. The most important of them appears to have been a case of poisoning by arsenic, in which recovery took place, although five grains of the poison were obtained from the fluids vomited. The symptoms of irritant poisoning showed themselves half an hour after taking the food which contained the arsenic; after they had passed otf, the patient suffered from loss of power and formication in botli the upper and lower limbs. The absorption of the arsenic from the ali- mentary canal was probably impeded by its admixture with a greasy mass, made of flour, potatoes, and butter. M. Blondlot (' Comp. Eend.,' 57, 596) has presented to the Academy of Sciences a memoir on the transformation of arsenic into the solid hydride by nascent hydrogen, under the influence of nitrous compounds. " It is well known," he says, " that acids set free hydro- gen in presence of zinc or iron, and that when the nascent gas meets a soluble compound of arsenic it forms a gaseous hydride. Now, there is an exception to this genei-al rule in the case of nitric acid and its derivatives, which, generating ammonia, produce under similar circum- stances only a solid hydride, which is deposited on the zinc or floats in the liquid in the form of brown flocculi. The same thing occurs with all other acids when they contain even the smallest quantity of a nitrous compound. However, these reactions, which are of extreme delicacy, do not manifest themselves when the liquid contains in solu- tion either organic substances, which almost all oppose the formation of the solid hydride, nor some metallic solutions, especially those of lead, which metal, being deposited on the zinc, also interferes with its forma- tion. Tor this reason the experiment succeeds perfectly only when zinc and distilled acids are employed. A consequence of these facts is, that this reaction is not one suited for the medico-legal detection of arsenic; but it is nevertheless of great interest for toxicologists, for it indicates, in the employment of Marsh's process, a double danger, which was not hitherto suspected. The first is that of overlooking the presence of arsenic in liquids which contain it. This would take place if either in the sulphuric acid employed or in the liquids to be tested* there should be the least trace of a nitrous compound, for the solidREPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATKRIA ifEmCA. 4-2G hydride would tlieu be formed iiintead of the gaseous. Tlie converse error may also occur. Thus, if the sulphuric acid should contaiu at the same time traces of arsenic and of niti-ic acid the preliminary experi- ment would produce only the solid hydride. Now, if, relying on the purity of the materials, the chemist should introduce into the appa- ratus the suspected liquid, and if this, though free from arsenic, should contain a little organic matter incompletely destroyed, the reactions would at once change, and the arsenic which had all along been present in the apparatus would assume the gaseous form, and might thus give rise to a fatal error." In the 'Ann. d'Hyg.' (21, p. 152) are contained some observations by M. Gaultier de Claubry on the same subject, which confirm the statements of M. Blondlot. He says that the action of nitric acid in preventing the formation of the gaseous compounds of hydrogen and arsenic is probably not one of oxidation, for chromic and chloric acids, though powerful oxygenants, produce no similar effect. He compares it rather to the generation of ammonia, which is known to take place when nitric acid acts upon zinc or tin in very dilute solutions. He also suggests another way in which it is possible that errors might arise in the application of Marsh's test. The solid hydride of arsenic, if exposed to the air, while adherent to the surface of metallic zinc, becomes after a time converted into arsenious acid. Under such cir- cumstances^ arsenical stains might be obtained from zinc which some days before had appeared perfectly free from any trace of the poison, and its presence would therefore be ascribed to the substance which was undergoing examination. The following are the properties of the solid hydride. It is a brownish-black substance, without any crystal- line form. It is insoluble in water, and is not converted into arsenious acid, even by ebullition. It is not dissolved by cold sulphuric or hydro- chloric acid, whether diluted or concentrated; but if heat be applied it gives with sulphuric acid arsenious and sulphurous acids, with hydro- chloric acid chloride of arsenic and the gaseous hydride. Nitric acid and chlorine dissolve it rapidly in the cold. When it is heated in an open tube arsenious acid and water are produced. Dr. A. Gamgee (' Edin. Med. Journ.,' Nov., 1864, p. 408) made, at the suggestion of Dr. Maclagau, a series of experiments, with the object of testing the accuracy of M. Blondlot's statements. He finds that when the quantity of arsenious acid is very small, and the proportion of nitric acid in the sulphuric acid is large, no arsenical mirrors are produced by Marsh's process. Thus, sulphuric acid, containing 1.5 per cent, of anhydrous nitric acid, did prevent the formation of mirrors from about i-5ootli grain of arsenic, but it did not do so when the quantity of arsenic amounted to i-iooth of a grain. On the other hand, with an acid containing about ,3 per cent, of nitric acid good mirrors were obtained from i-ioooth of a grain of arsenic, though their development was to a certain extent checked. As commercial sul- phuric acid is not likely to contain even 3 per cent, of anhydrous nitric acid, Dr. Gamgee therefore thinks that no practical objection to the employment of Marsh's test can arise from this source. His experiments led him to conclude that when nitric acid does prevent the formi^-427 INORGANIC SUBSTANCES. tion of mirrors of arsenic the addition of an organic liquid, such as sugared water, exerts no influence in causing their appearance. Dr. Gamgee also finds that wlien nitric acid thus interferes with Marsh's process it is not owing to the formation of a solid hydride of arsenic. He remarks that M. Blondlot has given no proof that the browu flocculi (which, in fact, are constantly formed when zinc is dis- solved in sulphuric acid) consist of such a compound. He applied heat to a portion of the tube, which transmitted the gas, generated by the action of a mixture of sulphuric and nitric acids on zinc, with i-^oooth grain of arsenic. He then found that, though no mirror was produced, a ring of crystals of arsenious acid was deposited in the tube just beyond the part heated. This Dr. Gamgee explains by supposing that nitrous oxide gas is evolved by the action of the dilute nitric acid on the zinc, and that this gas oxidizes the arseniuretted hydrogen as it traverses the heated portion of the tube. The nitric acid, therefore, does not act by preventing the formation of arseniuretted hydrogen gas, but by interfering with its decomposition by heat into hydrogen and metallic arsenic. MM. Bussy and Buignet (' Journ. de Pharm. et de Chim.,' Sept., 1863, p. 177; 'Hep. f. Phar.,' 13, p. 12) have made some investigations as to the best method of purifying sulphuric acid from arsenic. They find that in a large majority of cases this impurity is present, not in the form of arsenious acid, as is generally supposed, but as arsenic acid. This is not, however, absolutely a new discovery, for the experiments of Dupasquier led him to the same conclusion. It is proved by the fact that on distilling impure sulphuric acid with the necessary precau- tions the distillate is usually perfectly fi'ee from arsenic, wliich all remains in the retort. By still further concentrating this residue the characteristic red precipitate, with the ammonio-nitrate of silver, may also be obtained from it, indicating the presence of arsenic acid. In a few specimens of commercial sulphuric acid the arsenic was, however, found in the form of arsenious acid, and in this case small quantities of the arsenic pass over when the sulphuric acid is distilled. It is found that sulphuric acid, which contains arsenic in the form of the lower oxide, is always perfectly free from nitrous acid. This, indeed, might be expected from the fact that during the manufacture of the sulphuric acid the formation of arsenious or arsenic acid would depend on the predominance of the sulphurous acid or the nitric acid in the chambei". Thus, the presence or absence of nitrous acid, which is readily de- tected by its reaction with narcotine or with siilphate of iron, becomes an indication whether the arsenic is present in the form of the higher or the lower oxide. The chief importance of these results refers to their application in the purification of the commercial acid. Sulphuric acid which contains nitrous acid may with certainty be rendered free from arsenic by dis- tillation, a small quantity of sulphate of ammonia being added to decompose the nitrous compound. If the sulphuric acid be free from nitrous acid the addition of a little nitric acid is all that is required to convert the ar.<!enious acid product into the higher oxide, and distilla- tion will then gire a pure sulphuric acid,REPOlfT ON TOXICOLOfiY AND MATERIA MEDICA. Eiicliner, on tlie other liand, prefers purifying sulpliuric acid by pass- ing a stream of liydroelilorie acid gas into the liot liquid wliich converts the arseuioua acid into the volatile chloride of arsenic. If arsenic acid be ^present it is necessary to reduce it to arsenious acid before acting on it with the gas. Bloxam, as well as Bussy and Buignet, have sliown that without taking tliis precaution the stream of hydrochloric acid gas does not always purify the sulphuric acid completely from all traces of arsenic. • M. Blondlot (' Comp. Eeud.,' 58, p. 769), while admitting the full importance of these observations, criticises the method recommended for the conversion of the arsenious acid into arsenic acid. He remarks that it is of the utmost importance for toxicological purposes that no trace of the nitrous compound should remain in the sulphuric acid. On the other hand, if the sulphate of ammonia, Avhich is employed to remove the nitrous compound, be added in excess, it will reconvert the arsenic acid to the state of arsenious acid. These evils may be avoided by the use of a fixed substance as the oxidizing agent to convert the arsenious acid into arsenic acid in the first instance. Mr. Blondlot finds that the peroxide of manganese effects this in a complete manner. MM. Bussy and Buignet (' Journ. de Phar. et de Chim.,' 45, p. 465) assert that M. Blondlot's objection to the use of sulphate of ammonia is without foundation in fact. Tliey find by experiment that the salt, even when added in larger quantities than is necessary, does not con- vert the higher oxide of arsenic to the lower. Arsenic-eating.—Dr. Maclagan, while in St^'ria, made some inquiries as to the reputed habit of eating arsenic in that country. The facts which he and Dr. Eutter, who accompanied him, ascertained are detailed in the 'Ed. Med. Jour.,' Sept., 1864, p. 200. They seem to prove conclusively that the practice exists, and that persons who are accustomed to it can take quantities of arsenic which are always re- garded in this country as poisonous. Dr. Maclagan saw a young man, named Matthias H. Schober, who said that he had been in the habit of taking orpiment for a year and a half. He began by swallowing rather less than a grain every fortnight; he never exjjerienced any ill effects from it, and he now took it twice a week. If he could not get it he felt a longing for it, which was relieved by the repetition of the usual dose. As he said that he took orj^iment rather than white arsenic only because it was obtained more easily, they offered him some arsenious acid ; he chose a piece such as he was in the habit of taking ; this was weighed, and found to be nearly 5 grains. It was then pow- dered, placed on a piece of white bread, and put into liis mouth. He chewed it and swallowed it, swallowing also another piece of bread immediately afterwards. Two hours later he passed some urine in the presence of Dr. Maclagan, which was brought to this country, analysed, and found to contain arsenic. Some urine passed 24 hours later also gave distinct endence of the presence of that substance. Another man, who said that he had taken arsenic for 15 years, and who had the day before twice publicly eaten some of the sulphuret, swallowed about 6 grains of arsenious acid in the presence of Dr. Maclagan, taking a con- siderable quantity of water after it. He said that he was in the habitINOE,GA>'IC SUBSTANCES. 429 of taking the same dose about once a week. He also stated that near Liegist many people eat arsenic, some taking it daily, and many in larger doses than he. They cannot get it by open purchase, in conse- quence of the strictness of the laws regarding the sale of poisons ; and as taking it is generally considered a bad habit, it is concealed as much as possible. It is therefore, perhaps, less surprising that even in Vienna those who have not made special inquiries about it are scepti- cal as to the existence of this practice. Dr. Parker records ('Ed. Med. Jour.,' 1864, Aug., p. 116) a case in which death was ascribed to the practice of arsenic-eating. A. C—, <a photographic artist, was seized on Nov. 20th, 1862, with intense pain in the stomach, which was not, however, materially increased by pressure. The abdomen was much swollen and tympanitic, and there was inces- sant vomiting and intense thirst. The countenance was anxious and the features contracted ; the complexion unnatural, having, as seen by gaslight, a dark-greenish hue. He stated that for two or three weeks he had suffered from " dj'spepsia," with pain after his meals. While Dr. Parker was examining him he abruptly asked whether the daily use of arsenic would produce such a disease. He said that for the last four years he had taken that poison daily, being induced to do so by an article in a newspaper on the subject of the arsenic-eating in ytyria. He began with very small doses, measuring the quantity with the eye on the point of a pen knife. Sometimes it was taken rolled up in paper, at other times it was mei-ely placed ou the back of the tongue and swallowed. Dr. Parker estimated that his daily dose during the 5 months preceding this illness had been between 2 and 3 grains. The quantity taken ou the 18th November was said to have been larger still. He had on several occasions discontinued taking it for a few days, and once for three or four weeks ; but, fancying he was not so well as wlien under its influence, he resumed the practice. He believed that his spirits and general health were better under its use ; it did not appear to improve his wind. He thought it stimulated his genital organs, and Dr. Parker states that he had been notorious for his amorous pro- pensities. His complexion was, he said, often made dingy, and was not improved by it; but his friends stated that his pinkish complexion, as if he used paiut, had of late frequently been remarked by them. Por some time after commencing the practice he had a metallic taste in the mouth and throat. In spite of the treatment adopted his severe symptoms were only temporarily relieved. On the 22nd the skin became cold, and the pulse HO feeble that it could not be felt in the smaller arteries, and the heart's sounds could only just be detected by the stethoscope. At this time, however, he retained his streugtli so completely that he went by himself to the night-chair, and he conversed in a firm tone of voice. The sickness and thirst had now passed off, but he suffered much from tenesmus and strangury. He passed only a few drops of urine in the 24 hours. On the morning of the 23rd he died. Decomposition of the body was unusually rapid. Twenty-four hours after death the whole body was emphysematous, and the rreuital organs black and swollen. Air had collected between tiie nuicoua andIIEPOIIT ON TOXICOLOGY AND JIATEUIA MEDICA. 430 muscular coats of the intestines. The blood, both within the cranium and elsewhere, was black and very fluid. The braiu itself was firm. The lungs niucli congested, especially posteriorly. Tiie left ventricle of the heart hypertrojjhied. Tlie stomach much congested towards the duodenal end ; as well as the air, patclies of extravasated blood existed between its coats. The small intestine was inflamed or congested throughout. The duodenum was almost black. There was a large patch of extravasated blood beneath the peritoneum covering the ileum, and numerous similar patches existed elsewhere on the small and large intestine. The colon was also congested, but lighter in colour than the small intestine. The rectum, however, was inflamed from its commence- ment, but especially uear the sphincter. The liver and spleen were of a peculiar dark greenish-blue colour. The kidneys were much con- gested. The bladder empty and contracted. Ou chemical analysis slight indications of arsenic were obtained from the liver by Marsh's test and by the ammonio-sulphate-of copper. It could not be detected in the spleen or in the alimentary canal. The last dose of the poison was taken on the i8th November, about 60 houi's before Dr. Parker saw him and 5 days before he died. BismutJi. Mr. Tichborne (' Phar. Journ.,' 5, p. 301) has analysed the "Liquor Bismuthi," and finds that it contains bismuth, citric acid, and ammonia ; I'I grains of the teroxide of bismuth are present in each fluid-drachm of the solution. Copper. M. Chevallier publishes (' Jour, de Chim. Med.,' 9, p. 401) the follow- ing medico-legal case, which is of some interest:—E. R— was accused of attempting to poison his father with some soup, containing a salt of copper. This metal was found in some bacon, and also in some earth taken from the spot ou which the father threw the soup, suspecting it to be poisoned. Earth taken from a little distance ofl' was proved to contain no copper. It was thought by the chemists who first investi- gated the case that, since the soup had been made in an iron saucepan, the gi'eater part of the sulphate of copper must have been replaced by sulphate of iron, and therefore that no serious eflects would have followed the ingestion of the soup. On ti-ying the experiment, however, with the saucepan actually employed, placing in it 6 grammes of sulphate of copper, it was found that no decomposition of the salt took place. This was due to the fact that a layer of fatty matter which lined the saucepan interfered with the chemical action of the iron, for when a small portion of the interior of the vessel was cleaned by scraping it copper was at once deposited on the exposed metallic surface. The quantity of copper actually found in the bacon and in the earth was small, amounting only to '36 grain of the sulphate, but this was, of course, only a small portion of that which was contained in the soup. The prisoner was convicted.431 INORGANIC SUBSTANCKS. Mercury. Corrosive StiMimate.—Dr. Taylor relates ('Guy's Hosp. Eep.,' 1864, p. 183) a case of poisoning by about 5 or to grains of this poison, in which death occurred in 7 "days. The patient felt a burning sen- sation in the throat immediately, and vomited freely. He soon suffered from pain at tbe pit of the stomach, and from tenesmus, with bloody stools. There was complete suppression of urine during the first two days, and also towards the end of the case. The mouth became sore on the second day, and this symptom was again complained of on the last two days of the patient's life, but salivation did not occur. He died at tlie end of 6 days. The post-mortem examination showed extensive lobular pneumonia ; the oesophagus was injected in longitudinal streaks, and contained shreds of lymph. The stomach was minutely injected, as were also part of the ileum and the ascending colon. This part of the intestine also presented some small scattered ulcei's. The caecum was but little affected. The rectum was of a dark-red colour, from extravasated blood. The kidneys were large and coarse in texture, but otherwise normal. The bladder was ecchymosed. Dr. Taylor remarks that the appearances found in the stomach resembled those of arsenic more than those of corrosive sublimate, but no arsenic was present. Mercury was obtained from the stomach, and also in very small quantity from the liver. Dr. Anderseck and Dr. Hamberger (' A^jhrschrft. f. ger. Med.,' N. F. I, p. 187) record 2 cases of fatal poisoning by an ointment containing corrosive sublimate. Two young girls suffered from an eruption, sup- posed to be scabies, and went to a barber for relief. He applied an ointment with his own hands, rubbing it into those parts of the skin which were affected by the disease. This vi'as on the evening of April 15. A burning sensation was immediately experienced, and soon became intolerable. During tlie night vomiting came on, with great thirst. The next morning there was still violent burning and pricking over the whole surface of the skin, which was red and inflamed, and on the evening of the i6th presented at many points vesicles, such as show themselves in cases of scalding by hot fluids. These parts of the skin afterwards suppurated. On the 19th, the urine having been re- tained for some liours, a catheter was used ; from one of the patients scarcely any urine was drawn off, from the other a large quantity. This last patient was, on the next morning (the aoth), apparently going on well. She had slept for some hours, and her intellect was clear. She still complained of pains over the whole body, and of transient numbness of the hands and feet. A fetid smell of the mouth, which bad been noticed for 2 days, was now more marked, and ulcers existed on the gums and on the inner surface of the lips. Two hours after the visit of Dr. Hamberger she died unexpectedly. The result of the other case was equally disastrous. This girl's mouth presented the same appearances as did that of the former patient. Com- plete suppression of urine also came on, except that on the 20th she passed a very small quantity. Siic then fell into a somnolent stateEEPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MA'l'KItlA MEDICA. 432 from wliicli sho could at first be rouBed by questioning; vomiting and diiirrlioia were also present, and she died on the evening of April 2J, just 6 days after the inunction of tlie ointment. The autopsy showed tliat the stomach and small intestine were inflamed ; both the serous and raucous surfaces of these viscera were of a bright-red colour. Mercury was found by chemical analysis in the kidneys of the first patient, and that metal was, perhaps, present also in some of the other organs. In the viscera of the second patient no trace of mercury was detected. The bai'ber who practised the inunction appears to have used his naked hand, but suflered no ill eftects from it. The quantity of corrosive sublimate in the ointment was never ascertained. Tarpeth Mineral—Taylor ('Guy's Hosp. Rep.,' 1864, p. 180) relates a case of poisoning by this substance. Forty grains appear to have been taken, having been dispensed by a druggist by mistake for asthiops mineral. Violent purging and vomiting came on within 10 minutes, with slow and small pulse, cold and clauimy skin. 'J'he patient also complained from the very first of soreness in the mouth and throat, and the saliva continually ran from his mouth. White of egg was administered to him, but was rejected from the stomach, mixed with a yellow powder, and afterwards mucus and blood were vomited in small quantities. The next morning the lips, gums, fauces, and tongue, were swollen, and mercurial fetor of the breath was noticed. Among the later symptoms were delirium, headache, and restlessness. He was sensible within a few hours of his death, which occurred at the end of 10 days from the time of his swallowing the poison. The mouth, lips, gums, palate, and fauces, were covered on their inner surface mth black sloughs. The intestinal mucous membrane was softened and presented dark-coloured patches at intervals. OEGANIO SUBSTANCES. Melanthacece. Dr. James Watson ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Jan., 1864, p. 616) pub- lishes some observations with reference to the physiological eii'ects of the veratrum viride. It had been stated that this drug acts as an arterial sedative, without depressing the vital powers. Dr. Watson found that it had no such action. He took the tincture himself, and also administered it to patients in the Avards of the Infirmary at Edin- burgh. He slates that it produced extreme and most painful nausea, and that it was only after this occurred that the rapidity of the pulse was diminished. Prof Schroff has made a series of experiments on rabbits, with the object of determining the relative activity of the veratrum viride and the veratrum album ('Wien. Ztschrft. Med. Jahrbiicher,' 19, 2, p. 129, 1863; 'Schmidt,' 122, p. 31). The preparations which he used for this purpose were all made by himself I'rom the two plants in the same way. On comparing tlie spirituous extracts, that of the veratrum album was found to be the poorer in extractive matters, but it contained a large quantity of ci-ystals of different forms. These crystals had previouslyOEG^miC SUBSTANCES. 433 been found by SchrofF in tlie extract of the rootlets which are cou- nectcd with the rhizome of the veratruin album; and as this extract is more active than that of the rhizome itself, lie attributed to the crystals part of its efficacy. However, they do not give the reaction of veratrine with sulphuric acid, and he now believes that they consist simply of sugar. The difference between the action of the rhizome and that of tlie rootlets of veratrum album is essentially this, that the former produces chiefly reflex paralysis, while the latter cause reflex spasms, similar to those which follow the administration of veratrine. As regards their action on the alimentary canal, Schroff finds that both species of veratrum accelerate the expulsion of faeces, but that neither, even when given in poisonous doses, causes diarrhoea (this is said to coincide with the observations of Gneding, and Pereira quotes 3 cases of poisoning by this drug in the human subject in which there Avas no purging). The tincture prepared by SchrofF from the rhi- zome of tlie veratrum viride was somewhat weaker than that of the veratrum album prepared in tlie same way. On the other hand, the American tincture of the veratrum viride was stronger; but this ia ascribed to the fact, which he afterwards ascertained, that the Americans use the rootlets as well as the rhizome in making the tincture. Schroff" also compared the action of the cevadilla seeds with that of the different species of veratrum. Trom 12 experiments he concludes that, in the same quantities, this drug is more powerful than the rhizome alone of the veratrum album, and more powerful than the rhizome with the rootlets of the veratrum viride and the verati'um nigrum, but less so than the rhizome with the rootlets of veratrum album. Veratrine was found by him to be three times as active as the alcoholic extract of the cevadilla seeds, thirty times as active as the seeds themselves. It is, however, only twice as powerful as the alcoholic extract of veratrum album. In the nature of their effects, the cevadilla seeds resemble most of the preparations of the veratrum viride and the veratrum album, producing spasms rather than paralysis. It would appear from these experiments that, in making preparations of these plants, the rootlets should always be employed, as well as the rhizome. Conifer CB. Dr. W. W. Ireland describes ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Feb., 1864, p. 709) a very successful method of treating cases of chronic rheu- matism, bronchitis, and other affections, which is employed at the town of Die, near Valence, in the south of Trance. It appears to have been for a long time the practice among the peasants of the district, when suffering from rheumatism, to expose themselves to the vapours of a pitch-furnace; but Dr. Chevandier was the first who em- ployed this remedy in regular medical practice. The furnace used resembles a large baking-oven. The fire is below, and the resinous layers of pine-wood {Finns Cemhrot) are strewed upon the floor. The patient sits on a bench, wrapped in a porous covering of wool. The temperature is ordinarily from 140° to 158° Fahr. He remains in the bath from 15 to 20 minutes. After the feeling of overpowering heat 28EBPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDIOA. 484 has passed ofl", tlie sensations are very agreeable. Abundant perspi- ration is produced, and the slciu becomes red; the face is often very injected; but the determination of blood to the surface seems to prevent any tendency to cerebral congestion. The pulse ordinarily rises by JO or 15 beats. "When the patient leaves the bath he retires to bed, and remains there an hour or two. The urine gives out a terebinthine odour. The number of baths taken is from 15 to 20. The medical practitioners at the baths state that no case of pure uncomplicated rheumatism has ever left their establishment uncured. Muscular rheumatism is especially benefited. Lumbago almost always disappears after 5 or 6 baths. Bheumatic endocarditis and pericarditis are said to yield more rapidly to this than to any other form of medi- cation ; but organic affections, and palpitation of the heart, and the ha?morrhagic diathesis, are regarded as contra-indicating the employ- ment of these baths. It is doubtful whether this method of treatment does good in phthisis ; but chronic bronchitis is rapidly relieved by it. Dr. Ireland has himself several times visited Die, and he says that all patients suffering from obstinate rheumatism or bronchitis should, if they possibly can, betake themselves to that place. The season lasts usually from June to September. Piperacece. Culebs.—Prof. Bernatzik ('Prag. Vjrschrft.,' 81, p. 9) has made a series of investigations with reference to the chemical composition and physiological action of cubebs. All the active principles of this drug were found by him to be soluble in ether. The matters dissolved by this liquid amounted to 22 per cent. The residue was inodorous and tasteless. The ethereal extract is not adapted for medicinal use, as it gradually deposits a precipitate, consisting chiefly of crystallizable cubebin and of resinous matter. Pive substances altogether have been obtained from this ethereal extract of cubebs. The volatile oil may be distilled from it by the action of aqueous vapour. It is a pale-greenish fluid, which possesses the pungent taste of the drug, and has a slight odour, which is not unpleasant. Its quantity depends very much on the freshness of the drug from which it is obtained, as in old specimens much of it is con- verted into resin; but it maybe estimated at 10 percent. The oil derived directly from the fruit has been said to deposit crystals on keeping, but Bernatzik has in no instance succeeded in obtaining them from the oil obtained from the ethereal extract. The residue after the distillation of the oil is a brownish-yellow, resinous substance, which has a bitter taste, with but little pungency. One part of it is insoluble in caustic alkali. This is the cubebin of Capitaine and Soubeiran, which appears to exist in two forms, the one crystallizable, the other amor- phous. It contains no nitrogen, and is not an alkaloid. It is insoluble m water, and also in dilute acids and alkahes. It has been adminis- tered to patients suffering from blennorrhea by Dr. Eeder, and was found to be altogether inert. That part of the resin which is dissolved by cauetic potash consists435 OUGANIC SUBSTANCES. of two different substances. One of these is very similar to a resinous body, which may be obtained artificially from the oil of cubebs by oxi- dation, and probably is derived from the partial conversion of the oil into resin within the fruit. The other is a resinous acid, to which the name cubebic acid is given. It is a white, uncrystallizable solid, with silky lustre, and becomes dark on exposure to the air. It has a waxy taste, and sticks between the teeth. It is insoluble in water and in dilute acids, but is readily dissolved by alkalies, as well as by alco- hol, ether, and chloroform. "When treated with concentrated sul- phuric acid it dissolves with a splendid purple-violet colour, and this and other reactions enable it to be distinguished from all other resinous acids. In order to determine the differences in the action of these sub- stances, experiments were made by Bernatzik on himself and on others. The cubebic acid combined with magnesia was twice taken in doses of lo grmm. The ethereal oil was given once in a dose of 40 drops every 3 hours till 6 grmm. had' been taken, and afterwards in larger quantity, BO that 10 grmm. "were taken in 3 doses within 6 hours. Lastly, 50 grmm. of the powdered cubebs were taken in several doses within 8 hours. It was found from these experiments that the cubebic acid produced effects very different from those of the volatile oil. The urine passed after taking the resinous acid deposited an abundant precipitate, which was found to consist entirely of uric acid. The addition of nitric acid rendered this urine opalescent; but the precipitate thus formed, like that which had occurred spontaneously, was merely uric acid, and con- tained no resinous substance. By extraction vrith alcohol and ether the presence of cubebic acid in the urine was, however, demonstrated. Its quantity amounted in one experiment to '234 grm., in the other to '143 grm. The whole amount of uric acid present was 3 or 4 times as much as that contained in healthy urine. The greater part of the cubebic acid ingested was probably oxidized within the blood, for in one experiment the faeces were carefully examined for it, and only •4 grm. was found. Bernatzik thinks that the oxidation of the resin prevented the normal change of uric acid to urea and carbonic acid, and in this way he explains the increased excretion of uric acid. After taking the volatile oil the ui-ine was found to remain clear, giving no deposit of uric acid. Its smeU was aromatic, resembling that of cubebs. On the addition of nitric acid it yielded a crystalline sediment of uric acid; but it remained turbid, and was not rendered clear even by filtration. Under the microscope it was found to contain innumerable minute granules, often aggregated together. These were at once dissolved by ether, and therefore evidently consisted of resin. By chemical analysis '890 grm. of resin was obtained from this urine. This substance possessed none of the properties of cubebic acid, while it had the pungent taste of the oil of cubebs, and was exactly similar to the resin obtained from the oil by artificial oxidation. The quantity of resin was also found to be in proportion to the amount of volatile oil ingested. Tor every 7 grmm. of the oil taken, about i grm. of resin made its appearance in the urine.1 436 EEPOUT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATEllIA MEDICA. The urine wliich was passed after the administration of ijo grmm. of powdered cubebs possessed intermediate cliaracters. It had the Biiicll of the drug,'and it contained a considerable quantity (77 grm.) oi; resin, of whicli only a small proportion was cubebic acid, but it also ■ deposited uric acid spontaneously, and contained aa excess of tlial substance. As might be expected, the ingestion of such large quantities of a., medicinal agent produced other effects besides the change in the com- position of the urine. The temperature of the body was slightly in- creased for a time, and the pulse was quickened, but less markedly when:, the cubebic acid had been taken than after the volatile oil or the- powdered cubebs. There was also more or less disorder of the stomach,i, and flatulence. Irritation of the urinary passages was produced in al." these experiments. Sensations of cutting and of constriction aftei micturition were felt, even after the ingestion of cubebic acid ; but thit is ascribed by Bernatzik to the acidity of the urine, and to the deposi- tion of uric-acid crystals within the bladder, for it would appear un-.- likely that cubebic acid should itself act as an irritant to the urinary organs. From these observations it results that the volatile oil is the activt-3 constituent of this drug. The cubebic acid would probably exerl rather an injurious influence in the treatment of gonorrhcEa, from it£: tendency to make the urine acid. It may be mentioned that these results differ widely from those obtained by Weikart with balsam 0: i copaiba. He found that nitric acid produced no opacity in the urine when oil of copaiba had been taken, but only after the ingestion of tht balsam ; and therefore he attributed this effect chiefly to the copaibic acid which it contained. Pas and Gronewegen ('Bull, de Ther.,' 65, p. 122) describe n new form of cubebs, which have recently been introduced from the Dutch Indies. The fruit is considerably larger than that of the ordi- • nary drug, resembling rather the pimento in size. They are of an ash gray colour, passing into brownish-black. Their stalk is somewhat flat the furrows on the surface of the berry are less regular and less deep that in the true cubebs. Their odour is less agreeable, and their taste less- pungent. When thrown into water they sink to the bottom far more quickly ; they also impart a dark-brown colour to the liquid, while the ordinary drug gives it a yellow hue. M. Pas considers them to be the ripe fruits of the Guhcha officinalis, Gronewegen believes them to be derived from ' the Piper Anisatum. Tliey are cheaper than the true cubebs, but are said not to be an efiicient substitute for meeiica purposes ; they give only half the quantity of extract when treated witl ether. Matico.—Vvot Bentley ('Phar. Joum.,' 5, p. 290) gives an account of a new form of matico recently imported into this country fron Panama. It appears to be derived from the Ar/aiitJie adttnca (Miquel), i plant widely distributed in the tropical regions of America. It con sists of the dried, more or less broken, fibrous leaves, together with i very few flower-spikes and small fragments of branches. The uppei surface of the leaves is not so tesselated or rough as that of the ordi-437 ORGANIC SUBSTANCES. nary matico, and tlieir under surface is less pubescent. The infusion resembles that made from ordinary matico in colour ; its taste is some- what more pungent and agreeable. Its chemical reactions^ are the same as those of the officinal drug. It contains a volatile oil, of peculiar odour; the best preparations of it would be an alcoholic extract and a tincture. The scarcity and dearness of ordinary matico at the present time, in consequence, apparently, of the American war, renders this new drug of importance. UitpJiorliacecB. Biciiius communis.—Mr. Tuson (' Journ. of the Chem. Soc.,' ser. a, vol. 2, p. 195) has discovered an alkaloid, provisionally termed " rici- nine," in the seeds of this plant. This substance crystallizes in rect- angular prisms and plates, has a feebly bitter taste, and is dissolved by water and alcohol, but is only slightly soluble in ether and in benzol. It is not the purgative principle of the castor-oil seeds. A similar alkaloid has been obtained by Mr. Tuson from croton seeds. Curcas piirgans.—In the 'Med. Tim. and Gaz.' (1864, i, 703) are recorded several cases of poisoning by these seeds (Physic nuts, Jatropha nuts), which occurred at Birmingham, where three or four sacks of the nuts were sold by auction. These nuts were left on the floor, and some boys, getting access to them, put some into their pockets, and, finding their taste pleasant, not only ate some of them themselves, but gave others to their friends. In consequence, 33 persons were taken so ill as to be obliged to be carried to the General Hospital. Some of them had only eaten 3 or 4 of the nuts, but others ate as many as 50. Symptoms came on in some cases in 10 minutes, in others not till 2 hours or i\ hours had elapsed. The chief effects were pain and burning in the throat; pain and distension of the abdomen; giddiness, vomiting, and drowsiness; and, after an interval, purging, tiie evacuations being copious, mucous, and not imlike the well-known rice-water stools. In some cases the depression was very great; in many there was dysuria; fever was always present as an after-effect. Dilatation of the pupils was believed to exist in those who took a large quantity of the poison. It was doubtful whether the drowsiness (from which the patients were easily roused) was a narcotic effect of the nut or whether it was simply caused by the great prostration. The treatment consisted in the ad- ministration of emetics and purgatives. Every case terminated in recovery. Scroplmlariacece. M. Mazel relates (' Jour, de Chim. Med.,' 10, p. 430) a case of poison- ing by infusion of digitalis, which was taken accidentally by a girl, fet. 22. The symptoms were those ordinarily observed, with the addi- tion of suppression of urine. She passed no water for 50 hours. On the 5th day she appeared to be improving, and she was getting up out of bed without assistance, when she was suddenly seized with fatal syncope. In a memoir presented to the Academy of Sciences M. Lefort (' Qaz.REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. 438 Mt^d.,' 19, p. 396) states tliat two kinds of digitaline are used in France ; the one called " German " or "soluble," and manufactured according to a secret process by M. Merck, of Hesse Darmstadt; the other, known hy the name of " French " or " insoluble," and prepared by the method of MM. Homolle and Quevenne. The soluble form acquires a green colour under the action of hydrochloric acid much more slowly than the insoluble; the colour is also less deep. Hydrochloric acid gas turns the insoluble digitaline of a dark green, while it gives a dark-brown hue to the soluble digitaline. This gas also develops tlie peculiar odour of digitalis by its action on the insoluble preparation, but if the soluble form be employed this smell is much less distinct. Under the micro- scope the soluble digitaline presents traces of crystals of indeterminate form ; the insoluble appears as an opaque granular magma, which is a mixture of two substances at least. The soluble form seems, therefore, to be the better defined body of the two. The principle, which is turned green by the hydrochloric acid, appears iu each case to be in- dependent of the digitaline itself. It is volatile, and probably is the same substance with that which gives to digitalis its peculiar odour. Both kinds of digitaline traverse the vegetable parchment, and can therefore be separated by dialysis from substances which contain this principle either naturally or by accident. The bitter taste possessed by both tlie French and German forms, their coloration with hydrochloric acid, and the special odour of digitalis which they give out when heated with hydrochloric acid gas, enable digilatine to be detected in substances which contain it iu tolei'ably large quantity. The observations of ]\r. Lefort are applicable to the substance as sold iu this country also, for it appears that this is always obtained fi'om abroad. M. Lefort does not seem to have made any experiments to determine whether the " German " or "soluble," whicli he supposes to be the more pure, is also the more active variety of tbis substance. M. Grandeau has made a series of experiments (' Gaz. Med.,' 19, p. 383) to test the method of dialysis as a means of separating digitaline from organic liquids. He found that when gr. "01 of this substauce was added to urine the liquid which passed out of the dialyser contained nearly all of the poison. In another experiment gr. '04 of digitaline was mixed with the liquid in which the stomach and intestines of a dog had been macerated. The poison was readily detected in the diffusate. Morphia and brucia also gave satisfactory results in quantities of gr. -02. The green colour which digitaline gives when dissolved in concen- trated hydrochloric acid is not a sufficient test for this poison, for several other organic substances give the same reaction. M. Grandeau believes that the following colour test is characteristic of digitaline. AMien pure, it is coloured brovra by concentrated sulphuric acid ; the addition of water turns it to a dirty green hue. "When a dilute solution of digitaline is evaporated, and the residue is treated with sulphuric acid, the brown colour is replaced by a reddish-brown tint; and in the case of very minute quantities of the ])oison a rose colour like that of the flowers of digitalis makes its appearance. Now, if tlie digitaline, moistened with eulphiiric odd, be exposed to the vapours of broiniuo439 ORGANIC SUBSTANCES. it assumes a mauve or violet colour, the depth of the tint varying with tlie quantity of the alkaloid. This reaction succeeds perfectly with from gr. '005 to gr. "0005 of the poison. MM. Tardieu and Eoussin relate, in the ' Ann. d' Hyg.' (22, p. 80), those points in the celehrated case of Dr. Couty de la Pommerais, which are of medico-legal interest. It will be remembered that the prisoner, a medical man, was convicted, on the 17th May, 1864, of having mur- dered the widow Pauw, and that he was executed. The history of the investigations which had this termination is as follows :—In conse- quence of suspicions which were excited, the body of Mde. Pauw was exhumed 13 days after her death, and a I'egular autopsy was made. The tissues were comparatively free from decomposition, so that the slighest morbid appearances would have been readily detected, but no lesion was found which could account for her death. There was no trace of external injury. The organs were all healthy, except that certain p»arts of the intestines were found to be congested. The uterus con- tained a foetus of about the 7th or 8th week. When the organs were analysed it was noticed that the stomach and intestines were remarkably free from decomposition. No mineral poison, however, could be detected in tliem. The extraordinary state of preservation in which the viscera were found is therefore no indication that death arose from poisoning rather than from disease, for, as was remarked by M. Hebert, vegetable poisons have not the power of retarding putrefaction, which is possessed by metallic substances. The most important medical evidence for the prosecution was derived from an examination of the surface of the floor of Mme. Pauw's bed- room, at points where matters, which she had vomited, had fallen upon it. Some portions of the " parquet" stained by these fluids were re- moved by the expert who examined the room; these pieces of wood were carefully scraped, and the matters so obtained were added to some scrapings taken directly from other parts of the floor which had been soiled by the vomited fluids. They were then exhausted with hot alcohol. In this way more than 4 drachms of extract were obtained, which possessed a brown colour and a bitter taste. It was attempted to purify this by dialysis, but without any good result. "With this extract M. Tardieu proceeded to make experiments on animals. About 80 grains of it were introduced into two incisions in the thighs of a healthy dog. In about ,3-J- hours the animal began to vomit. The pulsation of its heart fell at the same time from 110 to 94 in the minute, and became irregular and intermittent, and their frequency continued to decrease till it was only 40 in the minute. The animal became cold, and died 22 hours after the injection had been practised. It appeared to retain its intelligence to the last. On examination the ventricles of the heart Avere found to be contracted, while the auricles were dilated; all tlie cavities were filled with black, partly coagulated blood. A rabbit was killed in 2;} hours with 30 grains of the same extract, given by mouth. The symptoms and post-mortem appearances were similar. For the sake of comparison, an extract was made from the pcrapings of a part of the floor of Madame Pauw's bedroom which had been under the bed, and therefore waa not touched by the fluids yowiteci,llliPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. 440 Somo of this, given to a rabbit, produced no poisonous effect. It was suggested for tlie defence tliat the room liad formerly been occupied by a photograplier, and that some of his chemicals might have fallen on to the floor. There was, however, no such stain as would have been pro- duced by salts of gold or silver. Corrosive sublimate was proved to be absent, and cyanide of potassium would have been long before changed into carbonate of potass. These are the chief poisons employed by photographers. Similar experiments were now performed on animals with the alco- holic and aqueous extracts obtained from the stomach and intestines of Madame Pauw. A drachm of these substances mixed killed a rabbit, but so quickly that some accidental complication was believed to be the cause of death. A dog, beneath whose skin about 80 grains were introduced, suffered from exactly similar symptoms to those observed in the dog to whom the extract of the scrapings of the parquet was administered, but this dog ultimately recovered. These effects on animals are very similar to those known to be produced by digitaline. There was also some reason for suspecting that Madame Pauw had taken this substance. M. de la Pommerais had bought from one chemist 46 grains of this substance on the iith and 19th June, 1863, besides 8 grains which he had purchased in the year 1861. But only about 2 grains of this substance were found in his possession. For a homoeo- pathic practitioner he also had a very large stock of several other very active poisons. Some further experiments were made on frogs. The heart was laid bare in three of these animals. Six drops of a solution of pure digita- line, containing '00924 grain of that substance, were introduced beneath the skin of the abdomen of one of the frogs, and another of the animals was treated with about 8 grains of the alcoholic extract of the scrapings of the floor (where the vomited matters had fallen). The thii'd frog was simply left alone, for the sake of comparison. A diminu- tion in frequency and an irregularity in the heart's action were soon observed in the first two frogs, while that organ continued to beat in the third with rhythm almost unaltered. The heart ceased to act in the first two frogs almost at the same time ; and the ventricle after death remained in each case firmly contracted. These experiments upon frogs were several times repeated, and with an unvarying result. The extract of the parquet always produced " a diminution in the frequency of the heart's beats, with irregularity. This was so great that, in spite of the fulness of the slow contractions of the heart, the organ never succeeded in emptying itself completely of blood towards the end of the experi- ment." At the trial of M. de'la Pommerais, M. C. Bernard gave e\ndeuce that these phenomena were well known to be among the principal effects of the action of digitaline upon the heart. The illness which preceded the death of Madame Pauw -was very short. She was quite well and pursued her usual occujjations tho evening before she died. In tlie night she was seized with repeated and violent attacks of vomiting, and with great depression. Dr. Blachcz saw her, and states that she was pale, agitated, and bathed in cold sweats, and that she complained of intense headache, ller pulse441 OUGANIC SUBSTANCES. was irregular and intermittent, and became imperceptible before her death. From these facts MM. Tardieu and Roussin draw the following conclusions:—(i) "Madame Pauw died from tlie effects of poison, (2) This poison was one of those poisons which, derived from the vege- table kingdom, leave no characteristic traces in the organs, and cannot be isolated by chemical analysis, but reveal their presence by their effects, and are discovered by the fatal action whicli they exert on living animals (4) The symptoms observed in Madame Pauw during life and those noticed in the experiments on animals detailed above have a great resemblance to the effects of digitaline; and though we cannot affirm it positively, a strong presumption leads us to believe that it was from poisoning by digitaline that she died." Of the other medical witnesses, M. Hebert was the one whose evidence was most favorable to the accused (' Union Med.,' 22, p. 325). He stated that he had himself experimented on frogs with solu- tions of digitaline, having injected subcutaneously 36—50 drops of a liquid containing a centigramme of the poison in 100 grammes of water. The animab were unaffected by it (the difference in quantity was pro- bably the reason why his results were so different from those of Vul- pian, alluded to below). He also denied that in poisoning by digita- line the ventricle is found contracted. M. CI. Bernard stated that nothing in the history of the experiment No. i (with the dog) contra- dicted the supposition of poisoning by digitaline. He said that at the moment of death the heart is dilated in cases of poisoning by this agent among the higher animals. In a very few minutes, however, cadave- ric rigidity of that organ comes on, and it passes into a state of persis- tent contraction. M.Vulpian, after describing his experiments made in the year 1855, said that " in the great majority of cases the ventricle is pale and contracted (when the heart has ceased to beat) and the auricles are dilated. The peculiarity of this arrest of the heart's action is that it takes place while the animal still preserves the power of movement." The substances which produce similar effects are, according to M. Vulpian, the poison of toads and of the aquatic salamander, the upas antiar, the alcoholic extract of the Tdtu/liinia venenifera, and the aqueous and alcoholic extracts of the Hellehortis viridis. No other agents, introduced beneath the skin at a distance from the heart, have been found to arrest the heart's action without evident disturbance of the other functions. Dr. Faure publishes (' Arch, gen.,' 1864, Oct., p. 413) some remarks on the effects of digitaline when administeredin large doses. He finds that this poison acts much less powerfully upon dogs than upon the human subject. In the dog 5 centigrammes produce no effect; even with 10 or 15 centigrammes very severe symptoms do not necessarily result. This appears to render it unadvisable to use dogs as the subjects of physiological tests for digitaline. In these experiments M. Faure pre- vented the cxpxilsion of the poison, not by ligature of the oesophagus, which is itself a fatal operation, but by tying a cord round the mouth. Vomiting then takes place; but the gastric contents, though they regur- gitate into the throat, return into the stomach, and the full effect of442 hepoet on toxicology and matkuia medica. the dose administered is tlms obtained. He tliinks that the vomit- ing caused by digitaline dilTers in its nature from that produced by other emetic substances. The action of the stomach is not, he says, the principal thing, but is only the sequel of a series of convulsive con- tractions, wliich commence in the limbs and abdomen, and are followed by violent expiratory efforts on tlie part of the ribs. The matters vomited consist of bile and mucus stained with blood, in addition to the contents of the stomach. There are also pauses between the different attacks of vomiting, during which the animal appears well. So also, when, death does not result from the administration of the poison, recovery is rapid. In some cases digitaline acts upon the intes- tinal canal; the animal then passes per anum, after most violent strain- ing, a greenish glairy fluid, often stained with blood. M. Faure could never detect a primary action of digitaline upon the heart. Imme- diately after the vomiting its pulsations are accelerated, in the inter- vals they may be reduced; but it is necessary to guard against attach- ing too much importance to these changes. As Quevenne said, " Dogs are so impressible that looking at them is sufficient to excite the heart's action." The condition of the heart after death also usually presents nothing peculiar. In one experiment, in which the chest was opened immediately after cessation of the heart's action, a slight ware was seen to traverse the organ from apex to base. The ventricles in this case contained liquid blood. In other instances fibrinous clots have been found in the heart's cavities. Among the other effects of the poison noticed by M. Faure are dilatation of the pupils, and violent horripilation over the whole body. In many of these experiments the poison was applied endermically to the back of the neck. The vomit- ing was then equally severe, and the fatal result was more certain than when it was given by mouth. M. Faure remarks on the difficulty of detecting the administration of digitaline if it should be applied to an ulcer or to a blistered surface. Solanacece. Atropine.—A case of poisoning by this alkaloid is recorded in the ' Lancet,' 1864, i, p. 8. The subject of it was a child 4 years old, who swallowed about 3 drachms of a solution containing 2 grains to the ounce. Among the symptoms recorded was a sort of tetanic spasm of the legs. The case terminated in recovery. Dr. Hohl relates a case of poisoning by atropine ('De atropini effect.. Diss, inaug. Halis Sax.,' 1863; 'Schmidt,' 123, p. 165), which is remarkable, not only on account of recovery occurring after so large a dose, but also because of the remote effects, which showed themselves some weeks after the poison was swallowed, and, perhaps, owed their origin to it. A woman, £et. 28, received atropine instead of caffein by mistake on the part of a chemist, and took about noon a powder con- taining 2 grains of that alkaloid. Tho symptoms, which appeared- almost at once, were of the usual kind, and reached a pitch of great severity, in spite of au emetic, which was given within an hour and a half, It was 6 days before the effects of the poiBon completely sub^ORGANIC SUBSTANCES. 443 sided. The treatment consisted in the administi'ation of tannin, iodide of potassium, and strong coffee, and in tlie use of cold affusion, and the application of ice to the head. Thirty-six hours after she swallowed the atropine her urine dilated the pupil of a rabbit to twice its size in less than ^ minutes. The woman remained well for several weeks after her recovery, but at the end of that time she became affected with loss of sensation in the finger-tips, formication, sleeplessness, illusions of sense, headachef lassitude, and gastric disturbance. She also complained of attacks o, palpitation at night, accompanied by great debility and distress. She remained anaemic, and no treatment succeeded in restoriug her to her previous state of health. Convolvulacece. M. Guibourfc ('Journ. de Phar. et de Chim.,' 44, p. 475) gives an account of a new form of jalap, as occurring in trade. It consists partly of a substance already described as the "faux jalap rouge," and which is said by Jourdanet to be an excrescence which forms on the trunk of the guava tree. The remainder is made up of tubercles which have been superficially coloured by some black liquid, readily removable by washing. Many of these tubercles are provided with radicles. M. Guibourt thinks that they are derived from the Agave Americana, or from some other plant of the same family. This kind of jalap came from New Orleans. Another variety of the drug, which reached Havre at the same time in a separate bale, is described by Guibourt as the " digitate jalap." It consists usually of 2 or 3 more or less fusiform tubercles, connected together, and terminating in an upturned point. They are usually small; their surface is of a grayish-black colour, and is deeply furrowed by desiccation. On section they are found to be white in the centre, gray at the circumference. Their internal structure resembles that of the true rather than that of the spiirious fusiform jalap. The botanical source of this drug is unknown. It yields only ,3'9i per cent, of resin, while true jalap should give 15—17 per cent. It should, therefore, not be substituted for the true drug, but may be used for extracting the resin, if this should be found equally active with that of ordinary jalap. Vogl (' Med. Jahi'blicher,' 1864, i, p. 25) has subjected the root of the Ipomcsa TiirletJiwn, a drug formerly held in high estimation, to an examination similar to that of Bernatzik on jalap recorded in the last ' Year-Book.' It appears to contain convolvulin; ifc is a less active purgative than jalap. Arrow-poisons. Dr. Braidwood ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Aug., 1864, p. 12,3) gives an account of the results which he attained in a series of experiments with dajaksch, an arrow-poison used in Borneo. The source of this substance appears not to bo known. It is an extract which, when dry, has a dark-iron-gray colour. It is dissolved by cold water, es- pecially in the presence of acids, It is eliglitlj^ soluble iji alcohol nuclM4< llKl'ORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA IIKUICA. confession, 5 or 6 grains of this alkaloid about 5 p.m. on the 10th ether. Its solutions have an alkaline reaction. Its taste is hitter, and its odour resembles that of organic matter decaying in a moist place. When administered subcutaneously, its first elfects are restlessness and signs of slight irritation. The animal is then languid and lies still, and the respiration is slow, without being laboured. Pits of con- vulsions then come on, and paralysis, first of sensation, then of motion, follows. This paralytic stage shortly precedes death. The respiration also becomes heaving and irregular; and sometimes it is spasmodic, and occurs only at long intervals. Vomiting and expulsion of fajces and urine are usually among the symptoms observed in warm-blooded animals. This poison has a special action on the pupil. When 2 dro])s of a dilute solution are placed between the eyelids the iris contracts. This effect is also observed during the convulsive stage of general poi- soning. When paralysis occurs the pupil dilates. It does not follow that contraction of the pupil would be caused in man by this substance, for many poisons produce this effect iu animals without having the same action on the human subject. The complete cessation of cardiac action is, however, the character- istic effect of dajaksch. After its introduction beneath the skin of a frog the heart's pulsations soon become feeble. The organ then begins to beat peristaltically (from the apex to the base) and irregularly, the auricles contracting twice as frequently as the ventricles. After a time the ventricles become motionless; some time afterwards the auricles are seen to pulsate more and more slowly, and at last they also cease to contract. Mechanical and electrical stimuli fail to produce any contraction when the heart has once become paralysed. Tlie ventricles remain bloodless and pale, while the auricles contain blood. At the time when the heart ceases to act sensation and motion are still unimpaired, so that if released a frog will jump about briskly, with an immovable heart. In warm-blooded animals the effects are similar, but not so well defined. Further physiological experiment, by excluding the influence of the vagus and of the spinal nerves, leads to the conclusion that the action of dajaksch upon the heart is caused by its paralysing the cardiac sym- pathetic ganglia. Kollikcr, of Wiirtzburg, found that the upas autiar (which is the active principle of the arrow-poison of Java) acts directly on the muscular fibres. Tliis, tlierefore, would establish a difference between them, should further investigation confirm it. Zof/aniacece. A case of poisoning by strychnia is related by Casper (' Yjhrschrft.,* N. F. I, p. i).—It is of interest, because it is believed to be the first instance in which this substance has been used in Germany, or at least in Prussia, to destroy life. This is, no doubt, in great part due to the fact that phosphorus and arsenic are used in these countries to kill vermin, and not strychnia, which enters into the composition of some of the substances sold for this purpose in England. Tiie subject of Casper's case was a man, a?t. 30, who took, according to liis ownORGANIC SUBSTANCES. 445 December, 1863. Symptoms api^ear to have set in in about an hour, and presented the usual characters. Between the paroxysms, which occurred at intervals of about half an hour, the lower extremities lay extended and powerless. He died at 8.1 p.m. The application of cold to the head gave him comfort, and did not excite spasm, as did the sliffhtest touch or movement of the limbs. The post-mortem examination was made 41 hours after death. The rigor mortis was present, but was in no respect different from that observed in corpses of persons who have died from other causes. The lungs contained but little blood, but were cedematous. Casper noticed a peculiar dirty violet colour of the muscles of the pharynx and oeso- phagus, which he thinks worth looking for in future cases of a similar kind. The veins on the posterior surface of the spinal cord were rather full of blood, but he ascribes this appearance merely to hypostatic engorgement. The membi'anes of the brain were markedly injected with blood ; and Casper remarks that this case certainly supports the statements that this appearance is a constant one of poisoning by strychnia. It is, however, so frequently found where death arises from other causes that it possesses scarcely any value. The right side of the heart was quite empty and contracted, and the left side contained scarcely half a table-spoonful of blood. The great vessels were also almost empty. The contents of the stomach were extracted with amylic alcohol, according to the process of v. Uslar and Erdmann. After repeated purifications a residue of 3"i grains' weight was obtained. This con- tained microscopic crystals, resembling those of strychnia, and gave the characteristic coloration with sulphuric acid and bichromate of potass. Dr. Sonnenschein, who made the analysis, finds that the alkaloid may be obtained in a pure state more quickly by another process, which is described in this paper. In this way he extracted, in a crystalline form, 17 grain of strychnia from a mixture of decomposing milk and meat, to which 2 grains had been added. Casper is of opinion that neither the time at which symptoms com- mence in cases of poisoning by this substance nor the period at which death occurs can be very narrowly defined in the present state of our knowledge. He finds but little difficulty in distinguishing the symp- toms from those of idiopathic tetanus. " If a man, without any other exciting cause, is attacked soon after swallowing a medicine or other substance likely to contain the poison with tetanic spasms, resemblino- in their course those caused by strychnia, there is a probability, ap- proaching to certainty, that the poison is the cause of these symptoms " If the presence of strychnia in the interior of the body can be shown by chemical tests all doubt is removed, but the failure to discover the poison can never afford a proof to the contrary. Dr. Lion, sen. ('Deutsche Klin.,' 1863, pp. 38/5 et seg.), gives a resume of what is known as to poisoning by strychnia. He remarks that there is, perhaps, no one of the alkaloids which can be detected with so much certainty, even under unfavorable circumstances, and he fully agrees with those English authorities who have maintained that where this poison cannot be discovered it was not the cause of death.hepoet on toxicology and materia medica. 446 A case of poisoning by strychnia, fatal in half an hour, is recorded in the 'Pharui. Journ.' (5, p. 581). The poison was sent instead of James's powder, from a chemist's shop. The etliereal extract of tlie contents of the stomach gave the colour reactions of strychnia. Tetanic spasms were also produced in frogs when a few drops were inserted under the skin. Composit(E. Santonine.—Dr. Notta draws attention ('Journ. de Chim. Mdd.,' 10, p. Ill) to the fact that santonine, when taken internally, gives to tlie urine the property of turning of a cherry-red colour when it is boiled Avith caustic potass, or even Avhen caustic potass is added to it in the cold. This reaction might easily lead to the conclusion that sugar is present in the urine. No result is obtained with the copper test, and therefore the application of this test will at once prevent any mistake in a doubtful case. Artemisia alsinthiiim.—M. Decaisne has presented a memoir on the use of absinthe to the Academy of Sciences (' Ccmiptes Eend.,' 59, p. 329). His conclusions are as follows:—i. Absinthe produces far more injurious effects than eau de vie of the same alcoholic strength, taken in the same dose. 2. In equal doses it leads to intoxication far more quickly than eau de vie ; both acute and chronic alcoholism show them- selves much more readily under its use. The degree of concentration of the alcohol, usually high in absinthe, must not be forgotten in tliis head. 3. The action of absintlie on the nervous system is more marked than that of eau de vie, and resembles the effects of narcotic acrid poisons. 4. One of the greatest dangers of absinthe lies in the adul- terations to which it is subject, and to which the attention of the autho- rities should be directed. 5. Even in moderate dose and of good quality (say, a glass or two daily) it is not free from ill effects, pro- ducing sooner or later, according to the constitiition, digestive disorder. 6. The taking of absinthe, even in small quantities and of good quality, ought to be prohibited. Oinehonacece. Mr. Howard ('Pharm. Journ.,' _5, p. 342) states that a large quan- tity of the root-bark is contained in the recent importations of calisaya bark from Bolivia. The curly shape in which it is found enables it to be at once recognised. It only yields 8'i4 parts in 1000 of the purified alkaloids, and of these only 3'06 consist of a crystallized salt of quinine, the remainder being almost entii-ely composed of tlie quinidine of Pas- teur. It has, therefore, only about one tenth the value of ordinary calisaya bark. Dr. de Vry, on the contrary ('Pharm. Journ.,' 5, p. 598), says that the root-barks of all the species of cinchona wliich he has investigated contain more of the alkaloids than the bark of the stem. Mr. J. C. Braithwaite finds (' Pharm. Journ.,' 6, p. 280) that the amount of citrate of quinine in specimens of citrate of iron and quinine obtained from makers of repute is often small, even when it is statedORGANIC SUBSTANCES. 447 on the label that the drug contains 25 per cent, of citrate of quinine. Out of 15 such samples 6 contained less than 10 per cent, of that salt. JRtibiacece. M. Pecholier (' Bull, de Ther.,' 66, p. 205) has submitted to the Academy of Sciences a resume of his researches as to the therapeutical action of ipecacuanha, a work which forms a natural complement to his well-known investigations as to the physiological action of this drug. His observations were made on patients suffering with pneumonia, acute febrUe bronchitis, capillary bronchitis, and the pulmonary en- gorgement of typhoid fever. The results he obtained were the follow- ing:—I. Nausea and vomiting were not invariably produced, and often occurred only at the commencement of the treatment; sometimes, how- ever, they persisted, and compelled the abandonment of the remedy; and generally when it was given for more than a weelc they returned and caused permanent intolerance. 2. The rapidity of the pulse and of the respiration, as well as the animal heat, were lowered. 3. The expectoration became more abundant and easy; the sputa in pneu- monia less coloured. 4. The stethoscopic signs improved. 5. The powers were not lowered, while the violence of the disease and the morbid reaction were both checked, so that recovery was rapid and certain. In comparison with tartarised antimony, Pecholier found the action of ipecacuanha more rapid, less profound, and less prolonged. He does not recommend its employment in all cases of pneumonia, but especially in a form of the disease to which he gives the name " catarrhal pneumonia," and which would seem to be a milder affection than the iji- flammatory variety, in which last, according to Pecholier, venesection and antimony are required. In febrile bronchitis he finds that ipecacu- anha hastens the disappearance of the fever and of the cough, and quickens the convalescence. In capillary bronchitis it is less useful. In these observations the remedy was always used in large doses, varying from four to six and even ten grammes daily, in the form of infusion. Small quantities of opium and of syrup of digitalis were usually combined with it. Sydrangeacece. Prof Bentley (' Pharm. Journ.,' 5, p. 310) gives an account of the Hydrangea arhoreseens. The root is the part employed in medicine. It has been found, on chemical analysis, not to contain anything to account for its reputed properties, except a quantity of mucilage. It is said to be very useful in calculous diseases, and to relieve the pain caused by the passage of a calcvdus through the ureter. It is adminis- tered as a fluid extract, in doses of a drachm twice or thrice daily. Leguminosce. Physostigma venenoaum,—Jobst and Hesse (' Ann. d. Chem. u. Phar.,' 129, p. 115) have succeeded in isolating the active principle of the Calabar bean, to which they give the name j)hysostigmin. It is ob-nEl'OIlT ox TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. 448 tamed from tlie alcoholic extract of the cotyledons of the seed. The extract is dissolved in water, and calcined magnesia is added till tlio liquid loses its acid reaction and assumes a brown colour. It is tlien gently evaporated, and the moist residue is taken up with filtering paper and agitated with ether till the brown colour of the paper has disappeared. The ether is then filtered, and a few drops of very dilute sulphuric acid are shaljen up with it. The mixture separates into two layers, of whicli the lower is dark red and contains the sulphate of the alkaloid. This is again precipitated by magnesia and extracted by ether, from wiiich the physostigmin is obtained on evajioration. Tlie alkaloid is a brownish- yellow amorphous mass, soluble in ether, benzin, and alcohol, as well as in solutions of ammonia and soda, less readily dissolved by cold water The aqueous solution has a slightly acid taste. Ko ultimate analvsis of it has hitherto been made. It readily undergoes change, and there- fore it is unlikely that it will take the place of the alcoholic extract of the bean in surgical practice ; but it has all the active properties of that drug. Two drops of the aqueous solution, placed in the eye of a rabbit, caused in ten minutes contraction of the pupil, which lasted an hour. It even produced contraction of the pupil when applied to the con- junctiva of a rabbit recently killed. Several cases of poisoning by the Calabar bean occurred at Liverpool on the loth and iith August, 1864. An account of them is contained in the ' Phar. Journ.' (6, pp. 99, 134). It appears that a quantity of rubbish, taken from a ship, was deposited on some waste ground in the town. The children playing near it found in it a number of beans, which they cracked and ate. The quantity taken by each child was from half a bean to six beans. The kernel of the nut was eaten, without the spermoderm. The children were mostly under 10 years of age, and the poison generally produced nausea and vomiting in half an hour. The secondary symptoms—trembling, dizziness, and loss of power in the limbs—came on within an hour. About three quarters of an hour after they had eaten the beans 46 of the children were taken to the Southern Hospital, and were at once treated with emetics. One case proved fatal, that of a child set. 6, who was said to have eaten 4 beans. The emetics given to this boy failed to act, and death occurred from collapse within a quarter of an hour after his admission into the hospital. Purging was among the symptoms observed in this case. On post- mortem examination the intestines contained only a whitish semifluid emulsion, consisting partly of the bean and partly of the mustard which had been administered. The heart contained fluid blood and clot in all the four cavities. The blood itself was noticed to be very fluid. The bladder was empty and contracted. Dr. J. B. Edwards made an analysis of the contents of the stomach and intestines. The alcoholic extract of the fluid from the stomach was further purified by ether, and was then applied to the eye of a rabbit, causing marked contraction of the pupil. A similar extract from the contents of the intestines was dissolved in water and gave the following reactions:—i. With caustic potash a pink colour, gradually increasing in intensity to a deep red ; when chloroform was added it formed a deep-red solution, which separated from the clear-yellowish supernatantORGANIC SUBSTANCES. 449 liquid. 2. Strong siilplmric acid produced a red colour, with tbe separa- tion of a resinoid coagulum. 3. Sulphuric acid, with crystals of bichro- mate of potass, gave a violet colour, changing to red. 4. Sulphuric acid and biuoxide of manganese produced the same effect, the purple tint being retained for a long time. 5. Solution of iodine in iodide of potassium gave a yellow colour. 6. Terchloride of gold gave a yellow colour, with reduction of metallic gold. 7. Caustic ammonia struck a yellow colour, which, after exposure to the light for some hours, turned green, and finally deep blue. A few drops of this extract, inserted beneath the skin of a frog, killed it, producing paralysis, with complete flaccidity of the limbs, and insensibility to external irritation. Two mice were also paralysed and killed by it, and it caused contraction of the pupil when applied to the eye of a rabbit. This was the only case which terminated fatally. Two other children were extremely ill; they are said to have suffered from severe griping pains, in addition to the symptoms mentioned above. That the effects were not more serious was ascribed partly to the fact that most of the children had had their dinners shortly before eating the beans. Dr. Edwards remarks that, though circumstances favoured the detection of the poison in this case, yet, had the purging been more severe, so as to expel the contents of the intestines and stomach, there would have been no evidence that death did not occur from cholera. Dr. Cameron publishes a full account of these cases in the ' Med. Times and Gaz.' (1864, 2, p. 406). He states that in some of them effects were observed within 5 minutes. The loss of muscular power was the prominent symptom, and was one of the earliest, preceding the vomiting in some instances. Vomiting occurred in all the cases except 8, and nausea was absent only in the one which proved fatal. Diarrhoea was present in 15 cases, but was not severe, and was often observed only during recover}'. Pain in the abdomen, on the other hand, was in every case experienced at first; but afterwards there was a remarkable freedom from suffering. The pupils were perfectly normal in most of those cases in which their state was observed. In 3 they were contracted, but in one of these the contraction existed only during sleep, and on rousing by the stimulus of galvanism the pupil became of the natural size. In the 2 other children this was not tested. Cerebral disturbance was present in 2 cases ; giddiness, double vision, and ocular spectra, being the symptoms. The child who died, notwithstanding his prostration, was sensible a short time before he died. That the bean has the effect of impairing muscular irritability would appear from the fact that the muscles of his neck, chest, and arms, responded but very feebly to the stimulus of galvanism, employed in the hope that the heart's action was not completely arrested. PapaveracecB. M. CI. Bernard (' Comp. Kend.,' 59, p. 406) relates some experiments which he has made on animals with the alkaloids of opium. In these investigations he generally adopted the method of subcutaneous injec- tions ; and he is so much struck with the superiority of this mode of bringing an animal with certainty under the influence of a drug, that 29llEl'OUT ON T0XIC0L0C5Y AND MATERIA MEDICA. 450 he thinks it ought to be employed generally for the administration of powerful remedies to patients. He noticed the following diflerencea in the action of the opium principles. Among morphia, narceine, codeia, narcotine, papavcrino, and tliebaina, only the first three produce sleep, and differences are observable in the kind of sleep which follows the administration of these substances. That which is caused by narceiue is, for equal doses, by far the most deep ; that of morphia is less profound, and that of codeia is still less so. There is least sen- sibility to noise after tlie administration of narceine ; but insensibility to pain is most complete when morphia is the substance employed. The mode of waking also is different. When the effects of morphia are passing off, dogs (and also other animals) often appear alarmed ; their eyes have a wild look, and their posterior extremities are half paralysed, so that their M'^alk resembles that of the hyaena. "When called they are terrified, and they do not recognise their master. At the end of 12 hours, however, they have regained their usual state of health. On the other hand, after the administi-ation of codeia dogs awake without alarm and without disturbance of the intelligence, and the effects of narceine are similar. These observations accord with the fact that the sleep produced by codeia is not followed by headache in man, as is the case with morphia. Experiments are now being made to ascertain whether narceine resembles codeia in this respect in its effects upon man also. The toxic powers of the different alkaloids are also very various, and have no direct relation to their soporific action. Bernard finds that thebaina is the most active poison among them, and that codeia is also fatal in a much smaller dose than morphia.* All the opium principles produce convulsions when given in poisonous ones, with the exception of narceine. Animals poisoned by that substance die with relaxed muscles. M. Berthe has obtained from codeia therapeutical effects such as would be expected from the experiments of Bernard (' Comp. llend.,' 59, p. 914). In 45 cases in which he gave this alkaloid, with the object of inducing sleep, he obtained effects which seem to him to place this remedy in the first rank of sedatives and narcotics. It is instructive to compare the high-flown language of M. Berths with the statement of Dr. Garrod, in his lectures at the College of Physicians ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864), that hydrochlorate of codeia failed altogether to produce sleep when given in doses of gr. i—3 in cases of restlessness and wakefulness; and that 5 grains of it gave no relief in a case of neuralgia, in which the pain was repeatedly alleviated by half a grain of the hydrochlorate of morphia. JRanunculacece. Aconiium Wapellus.—Messrs. T. and II. Smith, ('Phar. Journ.,' 5, p. 317) have obtained from this plant a new crystalline principle, to which they give the name of Aconella. It appears not to be poisonous, aud its presence is probably the cause of the comparative inertness of some * These statements appear to rest 011 experiments made upon young sparrows.451 ORGANIC CHEMICAL PRODUCTS. specimens of aconitine. It seems very probable that aeonella is identi- cal with narcotine. Dr. Taylor (' Guy's Hosp. Kep.,' 1864, p. 187) relates the case of AV. Hunt, who poisoned himself by tincture of aconite, after killing his wife and children in a cab. An account of the symptoms ob- served was given to Dr. Taylor by Dr. Puckle, who was called to see him. Violent retching and great depression were the most obvious effects. When raised up from his seat he staggered across the room. The pupils were dilated. He dozed, and said that he had delightful dreams. He tried to write, but was unable to pen more than a few lines. He died in about an hour and three quarters ; he had then lost all power of motion and all sensation for about a quarter of an hour. The appearance of the mucous membrane of the stomach strikingly re- sembled the elfects of an irritant poison. The larger end was of a bright-red colour, from great capillary congestion. The whole mucous membrane was highly corrugated, and part of it was softened and sepa- rated. The alcoholic extract of its contents, when applied to the lips, pro- duced the peculiar numbing sensation characteristic of aconite. OEGANIC CHEMICAL PEODTTCTS. Hydrocyanic Acid.—Dr. Otto ('Dent. Klin.,' 1863, p. 476) records the following case:—The stepmother of a photographer was found dead in her room. On post-mortem examination, made the next day, nothing was found to justify the suspicion that death arose from poison- ing, but the stomach, and part of the intestines, with their contents, were reserved for analysis. They were placed in vessels covered with writing- paper. On opening the vessels the same day the smell was purely that of decomposition ; nothing resembling the odour of prussic acid could be detected. The stomach and its contents were rendered feebly acid by sulphuric acid, and were separately distilled. The distillates had the same putrid smell, but chemical reagents showed the presence of hydrocyanic acid in large quantities, probably in the form of cyanide of potassium. The amount of this substance was estimated at half a drachm. Portions of the liver and spleen, which were examined later, gave only indistinct results. MM. Bussy and Buignet ('Joum. de Phar. et de Chim.,' 44, p. 465) have made some experiments to determine the relative advantages of preparing hydrocyanic acid by the methods of Gray Lussac and of Gea Pessina, the former being by the action of hydrochloric acid on cyanide of mercury, the latter by the action of dilute sulphuric acid on ferro- cyanide of potassium. The Codex of 1837 adopted the first of these processes. That of Pessina is the one ordinarily used in this country. MM. Bussy and Buignet also give it the preference; they find that the quantity of hydrocyanic acid obtained by it approaches more nearly to the theoretical amount than when the cyanide of mercury is employed, and with but little diiliculty it may be modified so as to yield an anhy- drous acid. This anhydrous acid, when diluted, gives a medicinal acid which is more stable than that obtained by Gay Lussac's process. The stability which had been previously observed in Pessina's acid,REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY ANU MATKUIA MKOICA. 452 therefore, does not depend on its being originally prepared in a state of dilution with water. In whatever way it may be made, dilute hydro- cyanic acid tends to decompose in the same manner under the influence of light, the only difl'erence being in the time required for this change to take place. Portions of the acid, prepared by different methods, ■were exposed to the direct light of the sun for an hour. Gay Lussac's acid began to turn yellow in j minutes ; at the end of the hour it was quite brown. Pessiua's acid, on the other hand, remained colourless. Both were then placed in the dark ; the acid of Gay Lussac quickly became turbid. That of Pessina began to change at the end of a month, and after six months it was quite opaque. Chemical analy- sis showed that there was then no trace either of prussic acid or even of cyanide of ammonium, as might have been expected, in either liquid. This proves that changes, set up by the influence of light, may not be apparent at the time, but may go on long after the fluid has been again placed in darkness, for dilute hydrocyanic acid which had never been ex- posed to light was found to remain unaltered at the end of six months. In a second paper (' Journ. de Chim. et de Phar.,' 4^;, p. 289) they explain why it is that Gay Lussac's process does not yield the amount of hydrocyanic acid which is obtained by calculation. It appears that the bichloride of mercury in the residue has an affinity for the hydro- cyanic acid, which renders it fixed at the temperature ordinarily em- ployed. The addition of sal ammoniac, in equivalent proportion, how- ever, sets the acid free, and the quantity then obtained is 95 per cent, of the theoretical amount. Brandy.—Dr. Taylor (' Guy's Hosp. Eep.,' 1864, p. 190) records a case of poisoning by brandy, in a girl, aet. 7. Death occurred in 12 hours. The mucous membrane of the stomach presented patches of intense redness, and was in some places thickened and softened. Portions of it were detached and hanging loosely in the stomach, and there were patches of black extravasation in it, evidently produced by altered blood. There had been no alcoholic smell in the breath of the child four hours after taking the brandy, and the greenish contents of the stomach also had no pecu- liar smell, but slight traces of alcohol were detected in this fluid by distillation. The vapour readily reduced chromic acid. Petroleum.—Dr. R. "Weinberger (' Wien. Med. Halle,' 4, 40, 1863 ; ' Schmidt,' 121, p. 34) relates two cases of asphyxia by petroleum vapour, probably the first instance recorded of poisoning by this substance. A day-labourer got over into a large vat, the upper edge of which was only about two feet from the roof, in order to cleanse its floor from the sedi- ment of petroleum, which covered it to the thickness of about half a foot. After a short time he fell down insensible, and the same fate befell another man, who got into the vat in order to help him out; and the only way which could be devised of extricating them, was to make a hole in the bottom of the vat, which took half an hour to accomplish. The two men, who were both about 40 years old, and strong and healthy, were found in a state of complete asphyxia; their faces of a bluish-red colour, their eyes fixed and glassy, and their pupils contracted and insensible to light. Some parts of the skin, especially those on which they lay in the vat, were nuicli reddened. No pulseORGANIC CHEMICAL PRODUCTS. 453 could be detected, nor any respiration or action of the heart. The skin was cold. Each of the men had passed an abundant semifluid evacua- tion, of a brownish-yellow colour. Cold affusions, washing with vinegar, and frictions with brushes, were first used, without success. After a venisection the man who was the last to become insensible gave the first signs of life. The pulse and respiration became perceptible. The secretions from the mouth and nose, expelled with a hissing sound, smelt strongly of petroleum, and attacks of choking, coughing, and hiccough, came on. Irritation of the pharynx caused the ejection of a quantity of grayish-white mucus. After half an hour consciousness began gradually to return. Pneumonia on the right side appeared in the further course of the case, but quickly terminated in resolution. In the other patient (the one who first became insensible) no sign of life made its appearance till half an hour, in spite of the continued use of cold affusion, frictions, and artificial respiration. Exactly the same symptoms occurred as in the case first described, except that recovery was somewhat slower. At the end of four days both men were well. The effects produced in these cases were very similar to those caused by the inhalation of coal-gas or of the fire-damp of mines, which the vapour of petroleum also resembles in its chemical composition. NitriU of Amyl.—Dr. "W. Richardson has investigated the physiolo- gical action of this substance ('Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' 1864, 2, p. 334), and read a paper upon the subject at the meeting of the British Asso- ciation. Its effects appear to be the same whether it is administered by the stomach, skin, or lungs, or even if it be directly introduced into the tissues by inoculation. It causes first violent action of the heart, with dilatation of the capillaries, and afterwards diminished power of the heart and contraction of the extreme vessels. In some of tbe lower animals, such as frogs, it suspends animation, inducing a state of trance, from which recovery may, however, take place imder favorable circumstances. In warm-blooded animals, in which the circulatory and respiratory systems are more complicated, and in which the skin, being less permeable, does not admit the spontaneous evaporation of the poison, the nitrite cannot actually stop the movements of respiration and circulation without destroying life; but even in these animals a condition of trance, lasting many hours, may be induced. This agent is not an anajsthetic; it does not destroy consciousness, except as a prelude to death. Dr. Richardson suggests the employment of nitrite of amyl in cases of tetanus. Nitro-glycerine.—Prof. Albers has made a series of experiments with this substance ('Deut. Klin.,' 1864, p. 405). His conclusions are as follows:—I. Nitro-glycerine belongs to the active poisons, which pro- duce their full effects within a few minutes. Its action on frogs is in- termediate between that of strychnia and that of caft'ein. 2. In warm- blooded animals it produces effects like those of hydrocyanic acid. Its action is exerted chiefly upon the brain and spinal cord, and less upon those parts which are presided over by the sympathetic nerve. The heart is only so far affected that its action ceases somewhat earlier, and its chambers are somewhat less full of blood than when death occurs in a natural way. The hearts of decapitated frogs beat much longerlUil'OIlT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATKEIA MEDICA. 454 than those of frogs poisoned by tliia substance. The brain and me- dulhi of animals also present an aiiffimic appearance after the full action of nitro-glyceriue. 3. In large doses it impairs the power of motion more than sensation. It has not yet been observed to produce that continued exaltation of sensibility wliicli sometimes lasts for d'ays, weeks, or even months, after the administration of strychnia. 4. In Albers' experiments its action commenced in 3 or 4 minutes, while that of strychnia first appeared at the end of 11—15 minutes. 5. In the cat nitro-glycerine produced only the effects of hydrocyanic acid. The sensibility was diminished; there were slight tonic spasms, affecting chiefly the glottis; the spasms were, however, much less marked than those caused by prussic acid, but the same giddiness was observed which ushers in the action of that poison. Dr. E. Demme ('Eep. f. Pharm.,' 12, p. 431) has made some observa- tions on the therapeutical action of this substance. He first experi- mented on himself, taking 2 or 3 drops of an alcoholic solution, containing i-ioth part of nitro-glycerijie. It produced a tingling sen- sation in the throat and an increase in the secretion of saliva. At the end of 10 minutes, or somewhat later, he felt a sensation of giddiness and a dull pain in the head. When 5 or 6 drops of the solution were taken these effects followed more quickly, and were accompanied by a quivering sensation of the masseter muscles. After a dose of 10 drops the movements of the lower jaw were impeded, from contraction of the temporal and masseter muscles, and slight twitchings were felt in the muscles of the extremities. These effects lasted about half an hour, and gradually passed off. The same solution was used with advantage in doses of from 2 to 4 drops, repeated 3 or 4, or even 6 times a day, in certain forms of paralysis, especially in those which appear not to arise from any organic lesion. In many cases it seemed to be more efficacious than the nux vomica. Its continued use did not produce any injurious effects, and there was no evidence of a cumulative actiou. It could not be detected either in the secretions or in the excretions of the patients to whom it had been given. Aniline Colours.—Dr. E. Friedreich ('Deut. Klin.,' 1863, p. 461) relates a case which be considers to be one of poisoning by the aniline colours. The patient was a youth, set. 18, who had been employed for two months in a warehouse, where he was occupied in packing these substances, during which time his hair, hands, and face, were stained blue- by the dust which was given ofi" from the fuchsin. The symptoms began with faintness and pain in the back of the head. The most charac- teristic of them were clonic cramps, affecting the face as well as the limbs, which appeared on the 5th day during sleep, and continued for about a week. Great weakness and depression of spirits and dilata- tion of the pupils were among the other symptoms; and this certainly coincides with the results of experiments upon animals with these sub- stances. No aniline could be detected in the urine. Eecovery took place after 17 days. , Compound Camphor Liniment.—Dr. Taylor ('Guy's IIosp. Eep.. 1864, p. 190) relates a case of poisoning by this liquid, in a child 4A- days old, in which death occurred at the end of 32 hours.R E P 0 E T ON FORENSIC MEDICINE. BY. Dk. C. HILTON FAGGE. The death of the great German medical jurist, Johann Ludwig Casper, which occurred suddenly on the 24th February, 1864, gives occasion for a short account of his life and writings in the April number of the periodical of which he was the editor. He was born in Berlin, in 1796, and graduated at Halle in 1819. After a visit to France and England he settled in practice in his native town. In the year 1825 he was appointed extraordinary, and in 1839 ordinary, professor at the University of Berlin. He lectured at first, not only upon legal medi- cine, but also upon the diseases of children and upon pathology and therapeutics, but during the last 20 years of his life he devoted him- self entirely to medical jurisprudence. He was the founder and director of the practical course of instruction in this subject, in whicli he availed himself to tlie fullest extent of the various cases which came before him ; and his lectures were attended by students in both law and medicine, as well as by medical practitioners and by foreigners. So great were his zeal and energy that it is stated that he never omitted an autopsy, or left it to be performed by his subordinates. In the year 182 5 he entered the service of the state as " Medicinal-B-ath," was made a member of the "Royal Scientific Deputation" in 1834, and was appointed " Gerichtlicher Physicus " at the Prussian capital in 1841. This post he held at the time of his death. Except during the last ten years of his life, he was also engaged in active private practice. He was the author of several works on different medical subjects, but his fame will always rest on the additions which he made to medico-legal science. His ' Handbook of Forensic Medicine,' which is now being translated by the Sydenham Society, appeared in 181; 7. His last work was the 'Klinische Novellen,' published 1863. The ' Vierteljahrs- schrift fiir Gerichtliche Medicin' was begun in 1852, and continued up to April, 1864, which number completed tlie 25th volume. Since the death of the editor a new series has been commenced, under tho guidance of W. Horn.456 HEl'ORT ON rOUJiNSIC MKU1C1NI5. BLOOD-STAINS. Dr. Kuuse (' Casper's Vjhrschrft.,' 25, p. 262) has made some obaer- vations as to the value of the crystals of hajiniii as a test for blood. He finds that these crystals can never be obtained from a blood-stain nnless the blood-corpuscles still retain their form, so as to be recognised under the microscope. On the other hand, many spots in which the corpuscles are still clearly seen yield no crystals under chemical mani- pulation. The value of this test is therefore very small, except as cor- roborative evidence, and for those who, from want of experience, cannot trust to simple microscopical examination. The usual appearance of the crystals is best compared to that of a hemp-seed, but some also present a curious swallow-tail form at one end. WOtTHDS AND INJURIES. Prof. Tardieu gives in the ' Ann. d'Hyg.' (21, p. 415) a long account of the case of M. Armand, of Montpellier, a trial which excited the greatest interest both in France and in this country. On the 7th July, 1863, Maurice Roux, a servant of M. Armand, was found lying in a cellar in a state of asphyxia, with a cord round his neck and his feet and hands tied. He rapidly recovered, and in less than 3 hours was quite well, except that he was mute, being unable, not only to speak, but even to groan or to produce the slightest sound. The next morning he gave by signs a description of what had occurred. According to this statement, his master, M. Armand, came into the cellar, gave him a blow behind the head, and afterwards strangled him and tied his hands and feet. This took place about 8.30 a.m., that is to say, 11 hours before he was found in the cellar by the servant, who always went down at that time to fetch some wine. M. Tardieu came to the conclusion that this accusation was false, and that M. Eoux had fabricated the whole charge. In forming an opinion as to the truth of the man's statement, it is, of course, of primary importance to ascertain whether the ligatures were so placed that they could not have been applied except by another person. Now, about this there can be no doubt. The cord round the neck encircled that part several times ; according to one of the wit- nesses, as many as 10 times, while others gave 4 or 6 as the number of the turns. It was not fastened in any way. Its position was marked by several sugillations, which were quite recent and superficial and presented no ecchymoses. It is therefore clear that no great force was used in applying it; and the numerous turns and the absence of any knot are much more characteristic of suicide than of homicide. The hands were fastened behind the back. The cord by which this was efiected was wound 10 times round the right wrist, and tied with a knot at each turn. The other hand was encircled by 3 turns of the cord, with but i knot. The portion of the cord between the two hands was of the length of a finger. It is therefore quite possible that Eoux may have himself tied up his hands. The cord round the right wrist457 WOUNDS AND INJURIES. was tight, aud this is of importance, for the hand was not swollen, and this could liardly have been the case if the ligature had been applied for 11 hours. The state in which Eoux was found was extremely critical. His arms and forearms were cold, though his face and head were of the natural temperature. His respiration was stertorous, his pulse scarcely to be felt; his conjunctiva almost insensible. M. Surdun, who saw him a little later, says that his respiration was then nearly normal, his pulse feeble, regular, and very slow; his whole body cold, the chest and abdomen being the only parts at all warm. These descriptions are not quite congruous, but they seem to show that the pulse and respiration improved rapidly under the means which were used to restore anima- tion. This renders it probable that the asphyxia was not of long duration, and certainly that it had not lasted, as said by Eoux, for 11 hours. It is true that the gradual swelling of the tissues beneath the cord might tighten it, and so render dangerous a ligature which at first produced no ill effects ; but it is contrary to all experience that asphyxia should last for so long a time without a fatal termination. It was stated by Eoux that his master stood before him, and gave him a blow with a stick or billet of wood on the neck, which rendered him insensible. M. Surdun examined the neck at the time without finding any injury, but the next morning he observed a small excoria- tion near the insertion of the right trapezius muscle. With reference to this, three questions were put to the experts, which well illustrate the disadvantages of putting theoretical propositions without reference to the actual case. These questions were—i. Can a blow on the neck occasion symptoms of concussion (" commotion ") or of syncope ? 2. Must a blow upon that part be violent or very violent to produce such symptoms? 3. Must such an injury always leave well-marked traces of contusion, such as ecchymoses? The answers to these questions were—i. Yes. 2. No. 3. No. Yet, as M. Tardieu observes, it is most unlikely that a blow with a piece of wood, on a part so well protected by a large mass of muscles, should produce severe effects without causing more than a slight excoriation. It is much more probable that the injury was produced, as a similar one on the chest was no doubt produced, by the fragments of coal which covered the floor of the cellar. Equally unsatisfactory is the statement of Eoux as to what followed the blow on the head. He first described in signs that M. Armand tied a cord round his neck, fastened his hands behind his back, and afterwards bound his legs together with a handkerchief. The next morning he stated that the blow rendered him insensible. He even gave a third account, according to which he was stupefied and unable to move or to cry out; but it seemed to him that M. Armand practised some extraordinary action upon him, and that afterwards he became strangled and bound. He also said that he heard a noise in the adjacent cellars without being able to call out. This state of clairvoyance is certainly extremely improbable as the effect of a blow, and no less remaricable is the state of mutism in which he remained for 36 hours after hia recovery. He could not spealc a word, nor even cry out nor groan.REPORT ON FORENSIC MEDICINE. 458 Yet he could make gestures, describing the way in which he was at- tacked. Witli the aid of an alphabet he answered clearly a long and minute interrogatory. When confronted with his master the play of his countenance indicated his feelings towards him, as well as the perfect state of his consciousness. The next morning his speech suddenly returned. There can hardly be any doubt that the mutism, like the rest of the case, was simulated. In addition to tlie paper of M. Tardieu, the opinions of five other eminent physicians are given, expressing full agreement with his con- clusions. As is well known, M. Armand was acquitted in the criminal court, but was afterwards heavily fined when the case was brought befoi-e a civil tribunal.* SUFPO CATION. Dr. "Wossidlo relates the following remarkable case (' Vjhrschrft. f. ger. Med.,' N. P. i, p. 293). A young woman, about 20 years old, who had given birth to an illegitimate ciiild 7 days before, died 8uddenl3% Poisoning was suspected, but this was negatived by the autopsy. The signs of death by suffocation were, however, very distinct. The eyes protruded, the face was swollen, the tongue projected between the lips. The outer surface of the neck was in vain examined for any sign of strangulation; but a large ball of hay, the size of a goose's egg, was found in the back of the throat, reaching down the pharynx at the back of the larynx, and just visible when the mouth was widely opened. There was no doubt that this was the cause of death ; the question was whether the case was one of suicide or of murder. She had just before left a room in which were several persons. The mistress of the house went out to seek her, and saw her standing on the floor of a hay loft, and noticed, when she got near her, that she trembled and breathed with difficulty. When the girl was asked what was the matter she made no answer. The woman therefore called to her son, and they got her down through a hole in the floor of the loft and led her indoors. Several women were present, and they thought that she was in a fit; she was blue in the face, trembled in the hands and feet, rolled her eyes, and from time to time opened her mouth, as if gasping for breath. After about a quarter of an hour she died. In spite of the apparent improbability of the thing, there was no doubt that this was a case of suicide. There were no marks of violence, and the people in the house heard no cry. She iiad also full opportunity of drawing attention to the cause of her sufferings when she was first found standing in the loft. The case is a good illustration of the fact noticed by Casper, that the signs of asphyxia are best developed in those cases in which death is slow. COLD. Dr. Dieberg publishes in ' Casper's Vjlirschrft.' (25, p. 299) details of loo medico-legal autopsies performed at Kasan; 28 of them were cases of fatal intoxication. It is well known that in Eussia almost all ♦ This decision has since been reversed by a superior court (.Tan., 1865).PKEGNANCY. 459 the lower classes habitually drink to excess. There were also lo cases of death by cold, and in many of these drunkenness was the cause of the exposure which led to a fatal result. Dieberg thinks that the frost- erythema, and even the chilblains on the fingers of persons found dead in the snow, are not proofs that exposure took place during life. His chief reason for this opinion is the fact that these phenomena are often observed, after thawing has occurred, in corpses which had been exposed for 24 hours, or less, to the influence of cold, and of which the skin, while they remained frozen, was perfectly pale, and presented neither erythema nor chilblains. He admits, however, that further experiments are necessary in order to decide this question. Among the proofs that the living body was acted on by the cold he mentions a distended con- dition of the urinary bladder. As much as three pints of clear, odour- less urine were often contained in it. The heart also is said to contain a larger quantity of blood in this than in any other form of death, in some cases reaching the enormous quantity of 24 oz. This blood was usually dark and fluid. "Whether the blood in the body generally differed in colour from that ordinarily observed he did not notice. The stomach was not generally empty, as has been asserted. BTTENS. Duvernoy ('Wiirt. Corr. Bl.,' 1862, 32; ' Prag. Vjhrschrft.,' 1864, 2, p. 114) relates the following case, which is of interest as bearing upon the disputed question whether fire ever produces vesications on the dead body:—The corpse of a man was found who had committed suicide by means of a gunshot wound, which traversed the chest and had lacerated the heart throughout the whole length of that organ. It could, therefore, not be doubted that death was instantaneous. The explosion of the gun had set fire to his clothes, and also to the cushions on which he sat. His whole body was more or less severely burnt; at several points there were small vesications, and in the neck the skin was raised into large bulla?, which contained a bloody fluid. PfiEGNANCT. Scanzoni ('Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,' 1864, p. 25) relates a case in which pregnancy occurred in spite of its being utterly impossible that intromiirsion could have taken place. The subject was a healthy young woman, who was engaged to be married, and who applied to Scanzoni in order to know whether there was any obstacle to her fulfilling her engagement. She told him that she had always menstruated regularly up to the last 3 mouths, since which time the menses had not shown themselves, apparently in consequence of her having caught cold. On examination of the abdomen a tumour was found above the pubes, and the other signs of an early pregnancy were present. The girl herself did not deny the possibility of her being pregnant. On examining the external organs, however, the entrance of the vagina was found to be closed by a firm, tense membrane, in the middle of which was a small opening the size of a millet-seed, just large enough to admit a surgical460 REPORT ON FORENSIC MEDICINE. sound. The incmbrane was not yielding, so that it could not have been pushed up by the penis. ABORTION. Zechmeister ('Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,' 1864, p. 81) records the fol- lowing remarkable case :—He was called in to see a woman, set. 2 5, and found her suffering from an abscess situated over the lower end of the right .sacro-iliac synchondrosis. Pressure on this part caused most offensive discharge from the vagina. On examining the genital passage with the finger a hard rough body was felt, which was at first sup- posed to be a portion of necrosed bone. This body was placed trans- versely in the pelvis, projecting at one end into the os uteri, while pos- teriorly it was fixed in the bone. It was carefully removed, and was then found to consist of a twig, apparently of the Prunus spinosa, wound round with a partially destroyed silk ribbon. The patient now admitted that, 5 months before, believing herself to be pregnant, she had gone to a woman, who had performed some manipulations within her genital organs which had given her great pain. Soon after this her disease made its appearance, the fetid discharge from the vagina commencing at the end of about 6 weeks. Zechmeister remarks that in Bssegg it is not uncommon for abortion to be produced in the 5th and 6th month by women, who perforate the membranes, or even the foetal head, with a pointed instrument. DELIVERY. Dr. Taylor records (' Guy's Hosp. Eep.,' 1864, p. 253) the following interesting case, which occurred in Australia:—A woman died, unde- livered, during confinement with her seventh child. The labour set in •with shivering, and then one prolonged pain occurred; when this sub- sided the woman became very weak and delirious, and died in half an hour. The body was exhumed a week after death, and the dead and decomposed body of a fully developed child was then found lying between the woman's thighs. The abdomen was much distended with gas. The uterus was completely inverted, and extruded, lying between the thighs, above the child. A rupture about 6 inches long existed in its substance. The child was believed to have been expelled by the pressure of gas developed during decomposition. INF^VNTIOIDE. A full account is given in the 'Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eev.' (66, April, 1864, p. 324) of certain modern German views on "respi- ration before birth," which have a bearing upon legal medicine. The chief original sources of these views ai-e a paper by Krahmer, in the 'Deut. Klin.' (1852, p. 289), a volume by Schwartz, published in 1858, and entitled ' Die vorzeitigen Atliembewegungen,' and a paper by Boiir in 'Henke's Zeitschrift fiir die Staatsarzneikunde' (1863, Heft, i, p. i). This last paper deals especially with the medico-legal aspects of the question. The evidence in favour of these new views is derived, m461 INFANTICIDE. great measure, from experiment on pregnant animals ; and partly by these means, partly by clinical observation, it has been shown by Schwartz and Krahmer that when the circulation in the placenta is from any cause stopped, even before birth, the immediate effect on the fcetus is the production of a hesoin de respirer, which leads it to make inspiratory efforts exactly similar to those which are normally made only after it reaches the external air. The results of these movements vary according to cii'cumstances. If the child's mouth is, however in- directly, in relation with the external air, this W'ill be drawn in; and it is suggested that this is the explanation of that rare occurrence, the " vagitus uterinus." If liquor amnii be in contact with the foetal mouth that liquid is sucked into the air-passages; and as movements of deglutition are often combined with those of inspiration, it frequently enters also the oesophagus and stomach. Moreover, the liquor amnii often contains portions of vernix caseosa and of meconium, as well as fine hairs from the surface of the body, and therefore these substances also are not rarely detected both in the air-tubes and digestive passages. On the other hand, if no fluid have access to the mouth, the eftect of the respiratory efforts is to draw blood into the pulmonary and other intra-thoracic vessels, and this occurs so suddenly that extravasations frequently take place, chiefly in the form of subpleural ecchymoses. Hence these appearances, and especially the presence within the foetal air-passages of the various foreign substances mentioned above, are evidence that tbe infant was exposed, before the completion ofhirth, to an interruption of the placental circulation, which was very likely to have caused its death. " The great value of these observations, tlaen, looked at from a medico-legal point of view, lies in their affording evidence by which a large proportion of stillborn children may be known to have died during birth, or at least to have been born with the cause of death actively working upon them. Most of the cases of suspected infanticide, in which the child died during birth from natural causes, would be at once cleared up by a careful post-mortem exami- nation, in which attention was paid to these ap[)earances." " There are, however, certain limitations to their value which must not be overlooked. The absence of petechial extravasation of blood on the thoracic viscera is no proof that death did not occur during birth ; for though Liman says that they are always present under these circumstances, this is shown by Bohr not to be the case." Moreover, it is doubtful whether these ecchymoses, when present, are in themselves a positive proof that respiratory eftbrts took place before birth. Hecker thinks they are ; but he is probably in error, for they are sometimes found in infants associated with ecchymoses in other parts of the body, the occurrence of which is not explained by the assumption of inspiratory action. When associated with the presence of liquor amnii, and of meconium in the air-tubes they, no doubt, prove conclusively that respiratory eflbrts took place before birth ; but the two classes of eft'ects are comparatively seldom combined, because blood is drawn into the chest with most force just in those cases in which no fluid finds access to it from without. It must be remembered also that though they indicate that the child was exposed to danger diu'ing462 HUPORT O.N I'OltKNSJC MKDICINK. Lirth, they do not prove that it died before birth was coinpleled. This is_especially shown by the observations of Bohr, who found ecchymoses of the thoracic viscera in many children who, having been in a state of asphyxia during birth, recovered, but died soon afterwards from some other cavise. Thus, a child extracted by him in consequence of a pro- lapse of the funis was born asphyxiated, but was restored by the warm bath, vvith cold affusion, only to die 3 hours later. In the body of this infant the petechial extravasations were well marked, and were evidently the results of respiratory efforts made before birth. In such a case a too rigid interpretation of these appearances might lead to the supposition tliat the death of the child arose from natural causes, and therefore to the acquittal of a guilty person. These cases are, however, rare; Krahmer appears to be riglit in considering the entrance of liquor amuii into the chest as far less injurious to the foetus, than these pul- monary congestions and hfemorrhages; and recovery after they have occurred is therefore probably not common. Children undoubtedly often survive who have sucked liquor amnii into the air-tubes during birth,, the fluid being expelled in the first few respirations which they make after being born. It remains to consider whether the value of the hydrostatic and other tests, in which the presence or absence of air in the lungs is used as a criterion of live birth, is in any way diminished by these observations. Small quantities of air are not unfrequently found in lungs which afford evidence of foetal asphyxia, but this is generally due to the fact, tiiat the child made its last respiratoiy efforts after its expulsion from the vagina, and then died. " The presence of air in the lungs of embryos who died before birth is a very exceptional occurrence; Schwartz only found it in 4 cases. Bohr's tables do, indeed, give 23 per cent, as the proportion of cases in which more or less of the pulmonary tissue con- tained air, but it then only occupied a very small portion of the lungs, and especially the middle and upper lobes of the right lung, which are generally the first portions of the organ to become inflated when the supply of air is scanty. Moreover, in all the cases of Schwartz operative means were used to quicken delivery, and it is probable that this facilitated the access of air to the foetal respiratory passages. In other cases the last inspiratory effort of tiie dying foetus occurs after its head has been expelled from the vagina ; and a third source of fallacy arises from the attempts at artificial inflation of the chest, which are almost always made in these cases with the hope of saving the child's life. In no one of the cases which form the basis of Bohr's tables could all these conditions be proved to be absent, so that his numbers have but a subordinate value. Now, the conditions under which birth has occurred in cases of suspected infanticide are almost always such that these causes may be left out of consideration with almost perfect certainty. It is true that it was not proved that the entrance of air into the lungs really arose in the way supposed" (it is only asserted that its origin from one of these causes could not be disproved); "and it must be admitted that cases have been related wliich seem to set at defiance the principles deduced from all other observation and experience. Such an instance is that recorded by TTecker, in wiiich the lungs of a child,INFANTICIDE. 4G3 born dead without operative interference, were found completely in- flated with air. This case, it is said, caused Casper to modify somewhat the views which lie held upon this subject. The only explanation which can be given of it is that some one may possibly have practised artifi- cial inflation on the infant while it lay in the dissecting-room, though Hecker himself appears to have rejected this supposition. These diffi- culties have, however, long been known to attend the application of the hydrostatic test; and it may be safely asserted that the modern views do not in any way increase them." The knowledge of the fact that meconium and liquor amnii may enter the foetal air-passages is of importance also because these substances might perhaps be mistaken for faeces and urine if the child were found in a privy or chamber-vessel. Their real nature, however, would readily be made out on careful examination. " Their detection often requires considerable skill and care. Schwartz tells us when he first began to make post-mortem examinations of stillborn children they were noticed but seldom, and only when their quantity was very large. But when his attention was directed to the subject, their presence was found to be almost constant. It is necessary to lay open cautiously the bronchial tubes before washing them; and in doubtful cases he recommends also slitting up the nose, and the careful examination of its chambers, as well as of the palate, pharynx, and buccal cavity. The trachea in its middle and lower part is generally empty or contains but little of these substances, but below its bifurcation they are usually present, and they often extend even into the finest ramifications of the bronchial tubes." Dr. Dohow relates (' Vjhrschrft. f. ger. Med.,' N. F., i, p. 123) a case of infanticide which is of some interest. The child was found in a box, among articles of clothing. The mother at first declared that it was born dead, but afterwards confessed that she had strangled it, as it lay under the bed-clothes between her thighs, by pinching its throat with the fingers of her right baud. No marks of injury were, however, found on the neck of the foetus, and therefore it was suggested by the medical men examined that this account was incorrect, and ultimately the mother altered her statement, and admitted that she sat up, drew the child to her, and compressed the neck against the bed-clothing, which, of course, would be less likely to leave traces of violence on the foetal body. The lungs of the child in this case were fully inflated with air ; but, in addition, the left lung presented on its surface about a dozen puncti- form ecchymoses. The air-tubes contained no trace of liquor amnii or of meconium. There was no reason to suppose that intra-uterine respiratory efforts had taken place ; and Uohow regards the ecchymoses as the eff'ects of the slow death by asphyxia. The lungs were, however, not much congested, though the left contained more blood than the right lung. As this case was undoubtedly one of infanticide, it shows (as was, indeed, stated in the article above) that subpleural ecchymoses afibrd only a presumption, and not a proof, that death arose from natural causes. In the 'Year-Book' for 1863 an account was given of some experi- ments of Dr. Liman, which tended to diminish the value of the entranceREPORT O.N I'OKKNSTC MEDICINJS. 464 ot lluid into the air-passnges and stomach, as evidence of immersion in the lluid during life, so far, at least, as infants are concerned. The Baine observer now publishes a cases ('Berl. Klin. Woch.,' i, p. 29) which came before Casper, and in which a decision was arrived at in accord- ance with these views. The first case is one in which a child was found in a privy. The stomach contained human fajces, which were distinctly recognised both by their appearance and by their smell. The air-tubes were covered to their smaller subdivisions with a thin layer of fa;cal matter, as was also the oesophagus. The throat also contained the same substance. On the surface of the lungs were a few vesicles arising from decomposition, but every part of them sank in water, and no cre- pitation was lieard, nor any bloody foam seen, when they were incised. Here Casper decided that the child was not alive when thrown into the privy, but that it was born dead. The funis in this case was altogether wanting; at the umbilicus was an elongated wound in the skin, with jagged edges. The other case was that of a child which was found beneath a sink. The condition of the lungs showed conclusively that it had been born alive, though decomposition was advanced. The bhroat, larynx, and oesophagus, contained thick, black, stinking mud. Casper, however, gave a positive opinion that death arose from apoplexy and suffocation, and not from drowning, because the membranes of the brain and the plexus clioroides were injected, and because the lungs were not dis- tended (" ballonirt"), as is the case in death by drowning. These cases deserve the attention of medical jurists in this country, for we doubt whetlier the same conclusions would have been arrived at here, and it is desirable that the grounds uj^on which such scientific ques- tions are to be decided should be universally agreed upon. Dr. Liman ('Vjhrschrft. f. ger. Med.,' N. F. i, p. 50) publishes some observations on the medico-legal importance of " subpericranial efl'usions of blood in newly born infants." He gives 13 cases, the greater number of which were observed within a year in Berlin. These cases show that extravasations of blood in this position are far from being uncommon. They are frequently, but not necessarily, associated with the ordinary blood-tumour. In the cases given the larger number of children were born alive, but some were stillborn. Injuries to the bones were always absent ; but in the first case some small extravasations existed also on the inner surface of the skull, between one parietal bone and the dura mater. These appearances are regarded by Casper and i)y Liman as affording no indication that death arose from violent causes. It is, of course, admitted that they may be the result of a fall or of a blow on the child's head, but it is contended that they may be caused, like the ordinary blood-tumour, by pressure during birth. In many of these cases the area occupied by the extravasation was apparently too extensive for it to have been caused by any ordinary injury; but they do not go far to prove the spontaneous origin of these appearances, for in most of them the child was found dead without anything being known of the circum- stances of its birth, and in scarcely any of them can the idea of violence be with certainty rejected.465 INSANITY. DISEASE. M. Tardieu publishes in the 'Ann. d'Hyg.' (20, 21) a " medico-legal study on diseases accidentally and involuntarily produced by impru- dence, negligence, or contagion, including the medico-legal history of syphilis." These papers appear to contain very valuable facts and ob- servations, but are incapable of condensation. r!rsA>'iTr. The editors of the 'Journal of Mental Science' publish, under the title of 'Insanity and Crime' (Churchill, 1864), a pamphlet on the subject of Towuley's case. After giving a resume of the case, and quoting the evidence of Dr. Winslow, on which the plea of insanity essentially depended, they discuss the question whether it is possible to refer the prisoner's state of mind to any of the recognised forms of partial insanity, intellectual, moral, or impulsive. By successively ex- cluding each of these forms, they decide that Townley was not insane. Dr. L. V. Marce (' Ann. d'Hyg.,' 21, p. 379) discusses the value of the writings of the insane, in their bearings upon diagnosis and upon legal medicine. He remarks that they are of much more importance, when done by educated persons, than when they are the work of the illiterate. Shades of style, faults of orthography, badly formed letters, ai'o valueless as evidence in the case of those who scarcely know how to write, and cannot freely express their thoughts on paper. The most striking and curious results are obtained in cases of general paralysis by the study of writings. After the death of the patient the diagnosis as to his mental state may depend altogether on such evidence. In the early stages of general paralysis the state of mental exaltation often leads the patient to write letters in which his ideas of grandeur or wealth are plainly expressed. Later in the case the writings, lilte the speech, become incoherent; words or sentences are left unfinished; the signature, date or addi-ess, is forgotten. In other cases the same line is repeated indefinitely, or the same letter is written over and over again to several different persons. In the early stages of this affection the handwriting is not itself altered, but it becomes changed after a time. Sometimes it is as large as that of a schoolboy who is beginning to learn, each letter being formed with scrupulous slowness. As the dementia and loss of muscular power become more marked the handwriting undergoes further change, and the trembling of the muscles is indicated by irregularities in the form of the long letters. At last the movements lose all precision, and the writings become un- intelligible. M. Marcd gives some instances in which written docu- ments were used as evidence in medico-legal cases, chiefly with refer- ence to testamentary capacity. The paper contains two plates which illustrate the text. 80REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. BY Dh. C. HILTON FAG&E. LITEEATTTEE. Db. Pabees publishes a 'Manual of Practical Hygieue' (London, Churchill and Sons, 1864). This book was prepared with especial reference to the requirements of the medical service of the army, and it contains full details as to the peculiarities of the foreign stations; but the chapters on ventilation, air and water, are of general interest, and they undoubtedly supply a want which has long been felt. Dr. B. D. Mapothei', Professor of Hygiene and Medical Officer of Health for the City of Dublin, publishes a course of ' Lectures on Public Health,' delivered before the Royal College of Surgeons. The chair of hygiene was founded in the Dublin College in the year 1844. Dr. Mapother's lectures appeared first in the 'Dublin Medical Press' (10, p. I et seq.), and they have since been issued in a separate form. Dr. Fr. Oesterlen is the author of a work upon medical statistics (' Handbuch der Medicinischen Statistik,' Laupp u. Siebeek, Tubingen, 1864), which made its appearance in two parts. After an introduction, dealing generally with the numerical method, Oesterlen considers the "general statistical relations of the population," and the "statistics of disease and of other causes of death;" and concludes with the statistics of " morbility," or of the liability to disease of different kinds under all the varied conditions of life. VACCINATION-. The 6th Eeport of the Medical Officer of the Frivy Council (Ap- pendix, p. i) contains papers on the state of public vaccination in London, by Drs. Seaton and Buchanan; in Yorkshire, Herefordshire, and Wales, by Dr. Seaton; in Yorkshire, Lancashire, Cheshire, and Cumberland, by Dr. Stevens; and in Gloucester, Somerset, and Devon, by Dr. Sanderson. The results of these inquiries confirm those arrived at in previous investigations, and show that the working of the system is at present imperfect. The quality of the lymph supplied by the National Vaccine Establishment was, "however, found by Dr. Seaton to be entirely satisfactory.467 MALARIA. HOSPITALS. Dr. Bristowe and Mr. Holmes have investigated the influence of different sanitary circumstances as affecting the results of treatment in the various hospitals of the United Kingdom. The conclusions at which they arrived are given in the 6th Heport, &c. (Appendix, p. 463). They are naturally incapable of condensation, but both they and the remarks upon them, made by Mr. Simon, contain much information. Mr. Simon criticises severely, and most justly, the statis- tics of the Registrar-General, which had been used by that oflicer to prove the comparative unhealthiness of the general hospitals of large towns. He suggests especially the importance of comparing the i-esults of similar operations in various public institutions, after taking the utmost care to ensure exact similarity in all the other conditions. He also insists on the value and necessity of good scientific records, having a common basis, of the cases treated in the different hospitals. MALAEIA. Dr. Whitley reports (6th Report, &c.; Appendix, p. 430) on the fre- quency of malarious disease in the inhabitants of marsh districts. His conclusions are highly satisfactory. Ague appears now to be both rare and mild in form in those districts where it was formerly most severe, as in Norfolk, Lincolnshire, and Cambridgeshire, as well as in Hamp- shire and on the west coast north of Liverpool. This change is gene- rally attributed to improved drainage, but it is stated by some, as by Dr. Christison ('Year-Book,' 1863, p. 456), that malaria began to decline before the drainage was commenced. The conversion of pasture- land into arable is also supposed to have diminished the amount of malarious disease. Sheppey, Hoo, Spalding, Hull, New Eomney, and Lewes, are mentioned as places where ague is still prevalent; and it is stated that at Huntspill and in the marshes on the banks of the Swale no improvement has as yet occurred. The high rate of infantile mortality in certain marshy districts having attracted attention. Dr. Hunter was requested to report on it. The regions in which it occurs are chiefly 5, viz.—i. The districts of Howden, Goole, and Thome, near the Humber estuary. 2. Around the Wash, in a large part of Norfolk, Lincolnshire, and Cambridgeshire. 3. The districts of Yarmouth and Mutford. 4. The inland fenny districts of Wayland and Guiltcross, lying in the middle of East Anglia. 5. The small district of Hoo, apposite Chatham, on the Medway. In these parts of England, though country districts, the infantile death- rate is from 2^ to nearly 3 times as high as in those parts which have the lowest mortality. The death-rate at Wisbeach is nearly as high as at Manchester. With wonderful unanimity, the medical men in these neighbourhoods attributed this effect to the employment of women in field-labour, con- sequent on the improved drainage. The soil being light, women easily find occupation on it, and often work ia large gangs. Tlioir children are left to the care of others. They are therefore deprived of theirJlliPORT ON I'UilLlC UKALTH. natural food; aud as cow's-milk is dear, a mixture of bread, water, and sugar, is substituted for it. Moreover, opium is largely given to infants in these places. The people take it themselves to relieve rheumatism aud neuralgia, and as a common stimulant; and they give it, in the form of Godlrey's cordial, to their children. Forty minims of laudunwn is the maximum dose given to children under i year. The medical men agree that "ablactation and narcotism" would be the proper description of the causes of more than lialf the infantile mortality—of deaths cer- tified as due to "premature birth," "debility from birth," "atrophy," " tabes," " marasmus," &c. Besides the influence which ought to be exercised personally by the clergyman, the surgeon, the coroner, and the registrar, in these districts. Dr. Hunter suggests two measures of public police:—i. The establishment of infant nurseries throughout the ganging districts. 2. The imposition of a license for the sale of opium, which would confine the trafiic in it to the larger shops, would make it more diflicult to get, and dearer, and would prevent the un- certainty which now exists as to the strength of the " Godfrey " which is given to infants. VENTILATION'. M. Tripier publishes some interesting observations (' Ann. d'Hyg.,' 43) P- 5) 0^ 't^s different methods of ventilating, lighting, and warming theatres. He shows that the system of ventilation, in which the central chandelier is made to create an ascending current, is in many I'espects defective. It either produces draughts, which annoy the occupants of the boxes, or else it fails to remove the impure air which the boxes contain, aud it is far from being favorable to the transmission of soimd. He recommends an arrangement which is exactly tlie reverse of this. According to this plan, fresh air enters the theatre imme- diately above and in front of the curtain, as well as by another aperture at the back of the stage. The impure air escapes by a number of apertures—some in the floor of the pit, others in the roofs of the boxes, and others above the galleries. All these apertures lead into vertical tubes, in which the air is kept in motion by mechanical means or by heating apparatus. This system of ventilation is stated to liave given satisfactory results wlien tried at Toulon in 1863. With reference to the illumination of theatres, M. Tripier shows that both the central chandelier and the footlights may with advantage be set aside, now that gas is used. The best method is that of having glass ceilings, above which the lights are placed. Tliis plan, thougli expensive, is adopted at the theatre of the Chatelet, and at tlie Gaito, and is per- fectly successful at the latter theatre. The next best method of illumi- nation appears to be that in which a row of jets, or a scries of small chandeliers, is placed round the theatre near the roof M. A. Morin (' Comp. Eend.,' 57, p. 720) has made some experi- ments which seem to show that water in the pulverized form, when dis- persed in a current of air, has a further action upon tlie air beyond simply rendering it moist; that it causes, in fact, the generation of ozone aud also of some acid substance which reddens litmus and is probably aFOOD. 469 nitrous compouud. In this way a jet of water in the finely divided state may exercise a powerfal purifying influence on air, destroying the organic particles which it contains. The temperature of the air was also found to be lowered by —2° C. These observations were suggested to M. Morin by the arrangements made for purifying the air during the summer in the English House of Commons, WATEH. M. Eonssagrives ('Ann. d' Hyg.,' 21, p. 64) records the conclusions arrived at by a commission which had been directed to investigate the hygienic effects of the use of vessels coated on the inside with zinc for the preservation of water on board ship. It had been shown by a former commission that portions of metallic zinc placed in vessels con- taining drinking water are unaffected, unless part of the metal be ex- posed to the air. In this case the amount of the metal dissolved varies with the nature of the water. In experiments on the small scale distilled water acts more powerfully on zinc than does spring- water; while sea-water has a still more energetic action. On the other hand, when the vessels are large, sea-water is comparatively little im- pregnated with the metal. The surface of the zinc probably becomes coated with some compound which protects the vessel from the further action of the water; and, therefore, it has been suggested to place sea- water within such vessels, and to allow it to remain in them for some time before they are employed to contain fresh water. The compound which results from the action of water upon metallic zinc, appears to be chiefly the hydrated oxide, mixed in some instances with the cai'bouate. It is partly dissolved, partly suspended in the liquid. It would seem that new vessels are more acted on than those which have been in use for some time. The quantity of the oxide formed is, however, always small, not exceeding "07 gramme in each litre, and of this a part is deposited on the bottom of the vessel. The question whether water which has been kept in vessels lined on the inner svirface with zinc is injurious to the health is, of course, not decided by these observations. It has, however, been practically settled by some experiments which were made at Brest. Six convicts were, during four mouths, supplied exclusively with water which had been left for seven months in zinc vessels on board ship. No ill effects whatever could be detected. It may, therefore, be concluded that the use of these vessels to contain water on board ship is perfectly safe and incapable of affecting injuriously the healtli of those who employ the water. M. Boucher publishes (' Ann. d'Hyg.,' 22) the report of a com- mission as to the hygienic influence of the steeping of flax or hemp, with especial reference to the introduction of the cultivation of these plants into Algeria. The conclusion arrived at is that this operation renders the water injurious and unfit for drink if it is stagnant, and that even in the case of rivers and steams it causes " tlio disappearance, or at least the diminution, of the essential qualities of drinking waters." In all probability the process of steeping in stag^nant water also renders the air in the neighbourhood unhealthy ; but it is not likely that anyREPORT ON PUBUC HEALTH. 470 effect on the air is produced when the flax is steeped in running water, or when the water is constantly being changed. There appears to be no satisfactory evidence that either endemic or epidemic disease is ever traceable in Prance to this process as a cause. In Algeria the introduc- tion of the cultivation of these plants is attended with special difficulties in consequence of the scarcity of water at most seasons of the year. FOOD. Dr. E. Smith reports (6th Eep., &c.; Appendix, p. 216) on the food of the poorer labouring classes in England. The plan he adopted was to investigate carefully the mode of living of certain representative men in different occupations. The food of the agricultural population appears to be in some English counties 50 per cent, better than in others, and the labourers in England are stated to be generally worse fed than those in either Scotland or Ireland. Meat.—M. Delpech publishes ('Ann. d'Hyg.,' 21, pp. i, 241) a paper on the measly condition of pork. He gives two cases which sup- port the view that taenia in man may arise from the ingestion of raw beef as well as from eating pork. It is possible that the worm in these cases may have been the T. medioeanellata. Mr. Gramgee ('Lancet,' 1864, i, p. 182) relates a case which well illustrates the danger of slaughtering diseased cattle. A bull was taken ill on a certain farm, and a labourer, who had formerly been a butcher, volunteered to kill it. The disease from which the animal was dying is doubtful; it was said to be pleuro-pneumonia, but according to some it was too rapid in its course to be that affection. Eour pigs died after eating part of the viscera of the bull, and two dogs nearly lost their lives from the same cause. The man who killed the bull had previously injured his hand with a spade. Soon afterwards he suffered from intense pain in the hand; inflammation of the cellular tissue extended up to the elbow ; fever of a typhoid character came on, and he died on the fourth day after dressing the carcass. Mr. Gamgee says that this case is by no means a rare one. To his own knowledge four other men have died in the same county, under similar circum- stances, within the last four years. Mr. Kesteven (' Med. Tim. and Gaz.,' i, p. 265) gives an account of the severe symptoms, resembling those of English cholera, which arose in twelve persons soon after partaking of a leg of roast pork. The cause of these effects could not be made out. The other parts of the same animal were eaten with impunity by other persons. No poison could be detected in the dripping from the joint which gave rise to the symptoms, and the meat appeared to be perfectly healthy. Dr. Bal- lard (ibid., p. 87) gives a table of the chief points to be inquired into in the investigation of cases of poisoning by diseased meat. Vinegar.—M.. A. Chevallier ('Ann. d'Hyg.,' 21, p. 86) gives an account of the adulterations of vinegar ordinarily practised in Prance. Out of 24 specimens seized at one time in one department of the country only one was pure and made from wine. Most of the others consisted of pyrolignpous flcid diluted with water, and either left colourless orOCCUPATIONS. 471 mixed with some foreign colouring matter. The different specimens also varied extremely in strength. The liquids used to give the proper tint to wood vinegar appear to be chiefly the juice of the elderberry (which, with alum, is the main constituent of the " teinte de Pismes"), the flowers of the hollyhock, and a substance called the " rasin vierge du Bresil," the botanical nature of which is unknown. It may, perhaps, be the fruit of the Phytolacca decandra, the employment of which would be likely to produce injurious effects. M. Chevallier strongly recommends that the terra "vinegar" should be confined by law to that variety of acetic acid which is prepared from wine. For deter- mining the strength of vinegar he recommends the acetimetre of Eeveil, the principle of which is to neutralize the acid with a standard solution of borax coloured blue by litmus. MEDioiini:. Dr. A. Taylor (6th Eep., &c. ; Appendix, p. 743) reports on the extent to which injury to health is caused by the carelessness and incompetence of persons engaged in retailing drugs, and on the unne- cessary facilities for the purchase of poisons for criminal purposes. OC0UPATIO]SrS. Tailors.—Dr. E. Smith reports on the sanitary state of the tailors in London (6th Report, &c.; Appendix, p. 414). The more important of his conclusions are the following:—The sanitary conditions under which tailors live are exceedingly unfavorable to health. Over-crowd- ing, ill-ventilation, and excessive heat, are especially found in shops; whilst irregularity in work and night-work are chiefly met with in those who work at home. (The extent to which overcrowding prevails in the workshops may be estimated from the fact that the average space for each man and gas-light is 156 cubic feet, the highest being 270, and the least 105 cubic feet. Such a state is, as far as Dr. Smith knows, unparalleled in workshops in other trades.) Men working in shops at the West End get better food than those who work at home, and much better food than their own families obtain at home. As a rule, tailors working in shops eat animal food of some kind 3 times a day, and are, whilst so working, sufficiently fed. Their moral and social habits have much improved of late years, but excess in the use of beer is still very common, and about one fifth or one sixth of them drink ardent spirits daily. Their diseases are chiefly colds, sore throats, muscular pains, rheimiatism, indigestion, headache, bilious attacks, constipation, piles, asthma, and consumption. The amount of respiration, and there- fore of vital action, is insuflicient for health, and whilst perspiring, or with the akin exceedingly sensitive, they expose themselves to cold air, conditions tending directly to the production of chest diseases. The mortality, as shown by the Registrar-General's returns, is much higher than that of agricultural labourers. Consumption and other forms of chest aflection are the most frequent of the fatal diseases to which they are subject, and constitute tw-o thirds of all the causes of death. Pr. Smith's own observations lead him to the belief that they are aUEPOUT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. feeble and sensitive class. In addition to the defective hygienic con- ditions of the workshops, whicli he thinks ought to be inspected by the Government, he notices as causes of disease the prolonged main- tenance of the sitting posture and the want of exercise and of regular meal times. Ho says tliat tailors usually sit with the back straight, and that the chest is seldom contracted, except in some of the younger men. He was surprised to find so few instances of roundness of the shoulders among them. The duration of work in the shops is about 12 or 13 hours daily. Another source of injury to the operatives is the irregularity of in- come, which is probably irremediable, as it depends upon the varying wants of the public with the different seasons of the year. This leads to recklessness and unsteadiness of character. It occurs chiefly in the higher classes of work, that called slop and sank work being much more regular, but of course much less highly paid. The difference in the price paid for labour by the private shops and by the large advertising shops is very great, and appears to benefit the employers rather than the public. Frinters.—Dr. Edward Smith reports on the sanitary circumstances of printers in London (6th Report, &c. ; Appendix, p. 383). He states that the peculiarities of this occupation belong, among the adults, chiefly to the readers and the compositors. The former are generally men of some acquirements. They usually live in the suburbs, and breathe at home a tolerably pure air, besides the advantage of the walk to and from their work. They carry on their occupation in closets, which are almost always ill-ventilated and very small. These men are commonly "pale and thin, of a depressed and anxious aspect, A'ery sensitive to the influence of temperature, of a nervous and irritable temperament, with a dainty yet not a bad appetite, an imperfect digestion, and a liability to headache, giddiness, and afiections of the eyes, which assume the forms of inflammations, short sight, or blindness. Many also complain of much general debility and exhaustion, lassitude, and piles. Some suffer from prolapsus of the bowel, and from bronchitis; but consump- tion is the goal towards which they very generally tend. There are, however, some who are of moderately full habit, with good complexion and good appetite for food. The yearly mortality is i to 44 living." Compositors work in rooms occupied by several men together, which are usually dirty and very badly ventilated. The allowance of air is ordinarily 4^0 to 600 cubic feet lor each man with his gas-light. The air of these rooms was analysed, and was found to contain a quantity of animal matter larger than that of private dwellings and 8 times greater than that of the open air. The time during which compositors labour is vai-ious, the work being divided into night-work and day-work. That which is exclusively night-work appears to be preferred. Tiiese men leave the office at 3—5 a.m., and return to it at 4—6 p.m.; and they thus have 2 or 3 hours to themselves in the middle of the day. Many of them work on for 20 to 30 years, and say that it is not injurious to their health. The men who work during the day are liable to extra work at times, wliicli is admitted on all hands to be pre- judicial. In some cases they undergo 2 days and i night of continuousOCCUPATIONS. 473 labour. They frequently take i or 2 meals iu the room in which they work. The diseases of compositors appear to arise from conditions incidental to their occupation rather than necessary to it, being caused partly by their unsteady habits, partly by the heat and defective ventilation of their workshops, and by over-work. Another great evil is the com- bustion of impure gas, containing sulphureous compounds; this is stated to produce asthma and a form of bronchitis. As a rule, they do not complain, but speak of themselves as healthy. They are usually thin and pale, with dilated pupils. They appear not to be subject to acute diseases, though they are very liable to take cold. Consumption is a very frequent cause of death. Snuff-taking is their besetting sin, and it is believed that drinking is also a prevalent habit. They appear to be subject to metallic poisoning from the type. Before distributing, the type is washed with solution of potass, which oxidizes the surface, and the salts so formed may be absorbed by the mouth or by wounds. The dust from the cases was analysed, and found to contain 9^44 per cent, of lead, i'8i per cent, of copper, i per cent, of antimony, with traces of arsenic. Dr. Smith states that dropping of the wrists is certainly fuuud among compositors. Their mortality in middle life is more than twice that of agricultural labourers. The machine boys are, however, placed in far worse conditions than any other class of persons employed in printing offices. Even young boys often have to work two days and a night continuously, with only slight intermissions when the forms are changed, or at irregular periods. The case related by Dr. Smith is quite sufficient to prove that some- thing ought to be done to improve their condition. Besides their long hours of work, they appear to be poorly fed. They are almost invariably thin and pale, and many of them complain that they are weak. Dr. Smith's report concludes with a list of measures adapted to the improvement of the hygienic conditions under which printers work. The ' Times' office is a striking example of the possibility of effecting these changes; but it is, as he remarks, a singular result of these recent improvements that the ratio of sickness has rather increased since they were carried out. Dressmakers.—Dr. Ord reports (6th Report, &c. ; Appendix, p. 362) on tlie sanitary circumstances of dressmakers and other needle-women in London. The dressmakers may be divided into two distinct classes— those who board and sleep in the houses of their employers, and those who live at their own homes, and go to and from the houses of business at fixed hours. The first of these classes are almost entirely at the mercy of their employers, so far as the hours of work are concerned. As a rule, they appear to begin work at 8.30, after breakfast is finished, and to continue, with two intervals of half an hour for dinner and tea, till 8 or 9 o'clock at night. The work-rooms are in some houses closed at 4 or p.m. on Saturdays. Many employers keep their workwomen em- ployed from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. In the season the earliest time of quitting work is in a large number of houses from 10 to \ i p.m., and under the pressure of court ceremonials the work is often carried far474 REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. into the night. The food given to these girls is generally good ; meat 18 provided at dinner, and when the hours are late also at supper.' The time •allowed for meals is ordinarily short. These girls rarely get any exercise. They usually have a holiday of from a fortnight to a month in the slack time of the year. In 34 establishments Dr. Ord found that the allowance of cubic feet of air to each worker was in 4 cases more than 500, in 4 cases between 400 and 500, in 5 cases from .300 to 400, in 5 cases from 250 to 300, in 7 cases from 200 to 250, in 4 cases from 150 to 200, in 9 cases only from 100 to 150. Mr. Simon remarks that the' largest of these allowances is but scanty for continuous work; and Dr. Ord says that, though the rooms do not generally become close or overheated during the day, they are very unwholesome at night, from the number of gas-jets employed. Artificial ventilation is rarely attended to. The bedrooms occupied by these women appear to be tolerably healthy and seldom overcrowded, Indoor milliners seem to live to a great extent under the same con- ditions as the dressmakers, but their hours are more uniform, averaging II or 12 or 15 hours, inclusive of meals, throughout the year. The position of outdoor dressmakers and milliners is in many respects different. Their hours are from 8 or 9 a.m. to 9 or 10 p.m., and they have the power of refusing over-work. Among skilled hands such refusals appear not to be uncommon. As the only meal supplied to these day-workers is their tea, the amount of their earnings is to them a matter of the greatest importance. The general minimum of Avages appears to be gs. a Aveek, and the more skilful workwomen earn from I OS. to 14s. a Aveek. They usunlly get only one good meal a day, namely, their supper, and Dr. Ord is of opinion that it is not possible for them to obtain proper nourishment for the small pittance w"hich they can earn. They are therefore compelled to increase their earnings either by taking their work home or by taking in work on their own account, or by less pi\aiseworthy means. Moreover, many of them find regular employment only during the season. No statistics as to the health of these women can be obtained. They appear, however, to Avear out rapidly, and after the age of 35 they find difliculty in getting employment. Their diseases seem to be chiefly the following:—i. Symptoms of brain distress, headache, and giddiness. 2. Dyspepsia. 3. Diseases of depressed vitality, phthisis, chlorosis, and hysteria. 4. Affections of vision, occurring chiefly in the day-w'orkers. It is asserted that many of them enjoy the excite- ment of the heavy Avork which they go through before a drawing-room; but close questioning shows, as might be exjiected, that they suffer much from exhaustiou afterA\'ards. Of other needle-women, some, such n8 those occupied in collar- making, mantle-making, &c., work in large establishments. Among them the regular hours of work are usually moderate, but subject to extension at certain times. The Avages vary from 5 or 6 shillings AA-eokly to 20 or even 30 shillings. The Avorkrooms present every A'ariety of condition. The influence of the sewing machine appears iu the City and East End houses to be favorable to the health of the Avork- women. They earn more, and the muscles of their limb? and trunk475 OCCUPATIONS. are brought into exercise. On the other hand, the cramped position is apt to cause pain in the chest and indigestion, and the continual noise is said, in some cases, to produce headache and giddiness. In the "West Eud, where the machine is less common and is less con- tinuously worked, its elFects are less favorably regarded. Delicate girls, unused to muscular toil, seem to be greatly exhausted by it, and some of them get old with great rapidity at this kind of work. Potters.—In a thesis, to which the gold medal of the University of Edinburgh was awarded. Dr. C. Parsons describes a form of bronchitis, simulating phthisis, which is very common in certain branches of the potting trade. It appears to be peculiar to the " hollow-ware pressers," and to the " flat pressers." These workmen are exposed, not only to great heat, but also to great changes of temperature. The Btoves are usually close to where they work, and many of the men have to carry the moulds into these stoves themselves. Moreover, the workshops are filled with a fine dust, arising from portions of clay, which fall on to the ground and are pulverized by the feet of the boys who are constantly running about. These circumstances appear to be the chief exciting causes of the disease, which resembles that found in other artisans. Besides black, indurated masses, the lungs usually contain smaller pieces of mineral matter, which has not been analysed, but is con- jectured by Dr. Parsons to consist in part of the fine dust inhaled, perhaps enveloped in a covering of phosphates, secreted by the mucous membrane of the air-passages. Manufacttirers of chromates.—M. Hillairet (' Bull, de I'Acad. de Med.,' 29, p. 345) confirms the statement that the men who are em- ployed in the manufacture of the chromates of potass are liable to per- foration and destruction of the upper part of the cartilage of the septum nasi (v.' Year-Book,' 1863, p. 457). It appears that MM. Zuber and Hermann (of Eixheim) had denied the accuracy of these observations. Verdigris manufacturers.—MM. Pecholier and St. Pierre have sub- mitted to the Academy of Sciences the results of their investigations aa to the health of the workmen employed in the manufacture of ver- digris ('Arch. Gen.,' Feb., 1864, p. 243). They conclude that this oc- cupation does not exert any prejudicial influence. They have not ob- served a single case of colic. That the poison is absorbed is evident from the fact that they have detected copper in the urine of the work- men. Among 40 of the women employed there was not a single case of chlorosis ; and they attribute to this metal properties similar to those known to be possessed by manganese and iron. Animals led on tlie residue of the grapes used in this manufacture, in Avhich a considerable quantity of copper is contained, suffer no ill effects, and become rapidly fat. The only evils produced by this occupation are slight forms of ophthalmia and other catarrhal affections, caused by the dust which is given oft'. Persons predisposed to phthisis and to other thoracic af- fections should therefore be kept out of the workshops. Workers in lead.—Dr. AVhitley has investigated (6th Report, &c.; Appendix, p. 350) the effects produced by lead and its salts on work- men who employ it in their business. The most serious of tliese effectsUKPOUT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 176 appear to occur in the mauufacturers of white lead, and the steps of the process which are most injurious Heem to be the unpacking of the 8tack8 of jars in wliich tlie metallic lead has been converted into tiie carbonate, the transport of the dried article into the casks, and especially the pack- ing in the casks, as this diffiises a quantity of the powder in the air. Br. "Whitley believes that the inhalation of the poison in tlic pulverulent form is far more injurious than its action on the skin. Colic seems to be not infrequent in these workmen, and gout, or rather rheumatic gout, is stated to be common; paralysis occurs but seldom. These effects have diminished of late years, and this is attributed partly to improved processes of manufacture, partly to sanitary precautions. The manui'acture of red lead is stated to be much less injurious than that of white lead. Makers of sugar of lead are believed to suffer much from the poisonous action of the metal. Lead smelting is in- nocuous as it is now carried on. Of the trades in which salts of lead are used the following appear to be the most important:—Among potters, the "dippers" have their hands and forearms immersed for 8 hours a day in a thick fluid con- taining i or part of white lead, and they continue this employment for several years. Dr. "Whitley examined several of these men, but only two admitted that they had suffered, and that but slightly. Several of them presented a blue line on the gums. Among painters lead-poisoning appears to be less frequent than is generally supposed; the improvement of late years is attributed to the adoption of an entire outer suit of clothing, which is frequently washed, and is worn only in working hours. Among plumbers disease has been much diminished by the substitution of machinery for hand labour, and by increased cleanliness. Compositors are believed to be no longer liable to lead- poisoning now that the type is distributed dry. A few cases occur among type-founders, especially in the "rubbers." Shot-makers, floor- cloth manufacturers, and glass-makers, appear to be quite uninjured by the lead which they employ; and no cases of poisoning were heard of among the enamellers of cards or of dial-plates. Workers in mercury.—Dr. Whitley reports (6th Rep., &c.; Appx., p. 350) on the subject of mercurial poisoning in artisans. Water-gilding is well-known to be the most injurious of the occupations in which mercury is iised. It has been to a great extent superceded by electro- plating, but not entirely. It is stated that, with few exceptions, all the workmen suffer, sooner or later, from mercurial poisoning. Men are seldom engaged in this work more than 2 or 3 days a week. However, it is probable that this process is carried on in private houses as well as in large establishments, and that its effects there are still more serious. This is the case also with those engaged in silvering mirrors, an occupation whicli gives employment to a much larger number of persons, but is far less injurious than water-gilding. Young men generally suffer slightly from salivation or from ulcers in the mouth in the first month during which they work at silvering; but temperance and cleanliness, and improved ventilation, are stated to have diminished the number of cases of poisoning. Among barometer-makers mer- curial poisoning appears to be rare.477 OCCUPATIONS. Salts of this metal are used by furriera iu the preparation of their furs. Ill eftects are, perhaps, rarely produced; but a cases are re- corded. One was that of a womau, employed at a furrier's iu Ber- mondsey, who suffered from salivation. It would appear that at this establishment several women have been aifected; it was stated that red precipitate was used there instead of the nitrate, which is generally employed, but Dr. Whitley could not ascertain whether this was really the case. The other case is one which is related in full detail by Dr. Taylor in the 'Guy's Hospital Eeports ' (1864, p. 173). E. B—, set 33, be- came a patient of Dr. Eees on Dec. loth, 1863. For the last 4 years he had been occupied in paclcing the skins of animals which had been washed with an acid solution of mercury and then dried. He had nothing to do with any of the steps of this process, ha-ving simply to pack the furs. He suffered at first from salivation, which lasted 3 months ; after this he remained tolerably healtliy till twelve months before his admis- sion, when his hand became unsteady, so that he could not shave; soon afterwards he lost control over his limbs when standing or moving about; and later he began to have slight twitchings when in bed. On his admission he could walk with a little assistance, but his limbs trembled even while he was iu bed. He also suffered from headache and sleep- lessness ; the bowels were costive, but perspiration was profuse. After a day or two he became delirious; the urine, which was previously healthy, was retained, and was afterwards passed involuntarily. He became unconscious, and died on the a5th December. On post-mortem examination the body was found to be well nourished, and the muscles were of the normal colour. The brain, spinal cord, and viscera, appeared free from disease. Mercury was de- tected in the kidney, and in smaller quantities in the liver and brain. It was more completely deposited on fine copper gauze than by the galvanic process with gold and zinc. The urine was examined soon after the man's admission as a patient at Q-uy's; no mercury could be dis- covered in twelve ounces of it. A few fibres of fur prepared with mercury at the factory where this man worked gave a copious deposit of metallic mercury ; Dr. Taylor thinks that the poison entered the system both by the skin of the hands and the mucous membrane of the air-passages. It is remarkable that while the case was under observation salivation, mercurial fetor, and the blue line on the gums, were all absent; and the symptoms re- sembled those of chorea rather than those of any other disease. Miners.—During the present year the report of the commissioners appointed to inquire into the condition of mines in Great Britain has been presented to Parliament. It includes medical reports by Dr. Peacock and Mr. Bankart. It is, of course, full of information of the greatest value to those concerned, but which is hardly of sufficient novelty to bear reproduction in a very condensed form. It is shown that the mortality in metalliferous mines is greater than that in the coal mines, where, on account of the dangerous gases, more attention is paid to the proper ventilation of the mines, and tliia proves tliat bad air is the principal element in the production of this high death-rate. The main cause of death is pulmonary disease. This appears to beREPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 478 cliiefly of a bronchitic or asthmatic kind, tubercular phthisis being com- paratively rare except in those hereditarily predisposed to it. The com- missioners regret that the attention of medical men has not been more directed to the nature of these prevalent affections, for the evidence from post-mortem examinations is very scanty ; but the distinction from tubercular phthisis is strongly indicated by the fact that the pi-oportiou of pulmonary disease, small in childhood, rapidly increases with advanc- ing years. " The first symptoms of failing health among the miners are weakness in the limbs in climbing the ladders and beating the borer, shortness of breathing, giddiness, and pains in the head; their appetite fails, they are unable to take or digest a sufficient quantity of food, and often suffer from sickness and vomiting. These symptoms are followed by harassing cough ; much expectoration, sometimes of mucus, occa- sionally of blood ; tightness of chest, and failure of general strength. These affections precede total inability'to work, followed by premature death." The delicate condition of the miners is in marked contrast'to the vigorous health enjoyed by the women and children in the same districts. Besides improved ventilation, the commissioners recommend the construction of proper houses, conveniently situated, in which the men can change and dry their clothes, and the application of mechanical means to convey them to and from the surface when the mines are of great depth. The health of the miners is stated to have presented an evident improvement in those mines in which the man-engine has been in operation. The sanitary state of the miners appears to be worst in the mines of Devonshire and Cornwall, and it is but little better in the lead mines of the north of England. In the rock-salt mines of Cheshire and in the haematite iron mines of the Furness district in Lancashire the men are remarkably robust and healthy. Dr. Angus Smith and Dr. Bernays give analyses of the air collected in various mines. The observation of Dr. Angus Smith, that minute crystals of sulphate or of nitrate of potass are readily detected in the air of mines after gunpowder explosions, appears to be of considerable importance. Sailors—Dr. R. Barnes (6th Eeport, &c.; Appendix, p. 330) reports on the occurrence of sea-scurvy in the mercantile marine, where this disease appears to be on the increase. Many cases are admitted annually into the Dreadnought and into the Sailor's Home, though very few such patients find their way into the great metropolitan hospitals. A large number of these men are employed by Liverpool and Hamburg owners, and the ships come chiefly from China, the East Indies, and the Mauritius. The duration of the voyages varied in the cases at Dread- nought from 56 to 168 days. The shortest time occurred m a ship from San Domingo, in which 2 bad scurvy cases existed at the end ot a voyage of <{6 days. The efficacy of lemou-juice as a preventive is well illustrated by the fact that in 3 instances the only man attacked by the disease was one who had refused to take the juice. Much of the lime-iuice supplied to merchant ships appears to be of very inferior quality Dr. Barnes recommends that the inspection of tlie stores of these ships before leaving port should be compulsory, and not, as at present, contingent on complaint by 3 of the crew, and that the penal-479 DEAF-MUTISM. ties imposed by the Merchant Seamen's Act should be strictly en- forced. DEAF-MUTISM. Dr.Kiichler ('Henke's Zeitschrft.,' 1864, i, p. 36) gives some interesting statistical details as to the prevalence of deaf-mutism and of bliadaess (congenital and acquired) in the kingdom of Bavaria. The proportion of deaf-mutes is 616 to every million of population, while in the same number of persons there are 599 who are blind. These numbers have been decreasing of late years, especially so far as loss of sight is con- cerned. This is referred in great measure to the increase of confidence in medical skill. The slight diminution in the numbers of those who are deaf and dumb must arise from the improvement in the cultivation of the people and the increase in the means of communication. Deaf- mutism is found chiefly in the country districts, and males preponderate decidedly over females among those so afflicted. The number of deaf- mutes is markedly greater among Jews than among those who profess other religions. In 1840 the proportion was, among Jews, 1299 in the million, while among Catholics it was only 601, and in Protestants 737 in the million. In 1858 the difference was less striking. There were then 852 deaf-mutes among a million Jews, while the numbers for Catholics and Protestants were 560, 626, respectively. These facts go far to confirm the views of those who see in the intermarriages of rela- tions a cause for this affection. The number of persons who have lost their sight is, however, also decidedly greater among the Jews. In four filths of the deaf-mutes the affection dates from birth ; this is the case only in one tenth of those who are blind. The question as to the frequency with which deaf-mutism is hereditary can probably be answered only approximatively from these data, owing to the difficulty of obtaining full and accurate information; but the following are the con- clusions given in this paper:—In the case of 7-9 per cent, of deaf and dumb children, the seuse of hearing was imperfect in one or both parents; and in 2'i per cent, bad health, or some bodily defect, existed in either the father or the mother. Deaf-mutism was present in some blood-relation in the case of 9*5 per cent, of such children. The parents were more or less closely related before marriage in 3-3 per cent, of the cases. The repetition of this defect in children of the same parents is less frequent than might be expected. In 1000 fami- lies, in which there is a deaf-mute child, there are 79 in which there are 2 such children, 20 in which there are 3, and 3 families in which there are 4 children affected with deaf-mutism. It may be interesting to compare these Bavarian statistics with those obtained from the census of Ireland for 1851 and 1861 ('Dubl. Quart. Journ.,' 37, p. 380). In that country the number of congenital mutes in one million of the population was, in 1851, 636, while in 1861 it ■was 730. The increase appears to be due to emigration, for there is, of course, a tendency for the healthy to go, leaving the infirm behind them. In Ireland, as in Bavaria, there are more male than female deaf-4S0 UKl'OllT ON I'UHMC llKAl/ril. mutes (loo to So-^S in 1861, 100 to 74",';o in 1851). Cougenital deaf- nuitisiu is fouud least amoug tlie civic, and most among tlie rural popu- lation. Only I deaf-mute is returned as a Jew in Ireland. The total number of cougenital deaf-mutes was 4010. In 242 in- stances the parents were related in the degrees of either first, second, third, or fourth cousins. There were 10 instances of twins, in which both children were deaf and dumb. In 3138 cases there was one mute in each family ; and this is stated to have been most generally a first child. In 357 cases there were 2 mutes in each family. In 159 in- stances 3 mutes were born of the same parents; in 36 instances 4 mutes. Thirteen families had 5 mutes each. Six mutes in a family occurred 5 times, and 7 in i case. With reference to hereditary transmission, it is remarkable that from the marriage of 91 deaf-mutes 213 children were born, only 3 of whom were mutes; and not a single instance of deaf-mutism occurred among 12 children forming three families in which both parents were deaf and dumb.81 INDEX. Abarbanell, case of twin labour extending over three days, 377 Abdomen, surgery of, authors on, 330 Aliortion, bal)itual, with flexion of uterus (Huter), 369 — pointed twig left in utero, abscess (Zechmeister), 460 Accommodation and refaction, authors on, 307 Acne rosacea, treatment of (Ker), 179 Aconite, new crystalline principle in (Smith), 450 — poisoning by the tincture of (Taylor), 451 Acute diseases, on some (Smoler), 36 Ague, influence of, on insanity (Nasse), 109 Air-passages, obstruction of, causing death of new-born cliild (Buhl), 415 — catheterization of, in children born asphyxiated (Hiiter), 415 Albers, effect of nitro-glycerine, 453 Albumen, osmosis of (Schmidt), 2 Albuminoid substance, new, in milk (Millon and Commaile), 19 — substances, digestion of, bv pancreas (Corvisart), 19 Albuminuria, aphonia in (Fauvel, Gibb), 128 — in children, treatment of (Dickinson), 166 — in cases of lead poisoning (Olivier, Lancereaux, Danjoy), 167 — perchloride of iron and ergot of rye in (Socquet and Chatin), 166 Alcohol in typhus fever (Gairdner), 45 Alopecia and tinea, on (Ziemssen, Uillier), 176 Altbaus, mineral waters of England and Continent, 189 Amaurosis, coincident with oxaluria (Mac- kenzie), 312 — with albuminuria in lead poisoning (Daiijoy), 168 — from tobacco (?) (Hutchinson), 312 — authors on, 314 Amenorrhcca, ai)iol in (Corlieu). 393 — surgical treatment of (Ston r), 392 Amputations, major, for injuries (Sidell), 293 — different kinds near ankle (Weber), 294 — Pirogoff's (Hewson), 292 — authors on, 295 Amyl, nitrate of, effects of (Richardson), 453 Anesthesia of chloroform prolonged by subcutaneous injection of morphia (Nussbaum), 204 AnEBSthetics (Anstie), 420 Anderseck and Hamberger, poisoning by corrosive sublimate, 431 Anderson, J. W., case of Cesarean section successful, 388 Aneurism, abdominal, lumbar pain in (Cockle), 122 — of abdominal aorta cured by pressure (Murray), 122 — of aorta opening into superior vena cava (Gull), 122 — of innominata, successful ligature of (Rogers), 264 — of subclavian (Sabine), 261 — thoracic (Moore), 121 — and tumours implicating vagi nerves (llabershon), 121 — do. thoracic (Waters), 123 —new method of consolidating fibrin (Moore), 265 — authors on, 267 Angina pectoris, relation of, to sub-para l>sis of heart (Eichwald), 118 — post-mortem (Lancereaux), 118 Anilme colours, poisoning by (Friedreich), 454 Annan, protracted gestation, 363 Anstie, on stimulants and narcotics, 417 Ansiie, F. E., treatment of diabetes, 168 Atiihrax, treatment by pressure (CoUis, Smyly), 251 Antisell, T., constituents of bile, 20 Aphonia, albuminuric (Fauvel, Gibb), 128 — functional (Mackenzie), 129 — hysterical, treated by etherization (llulchinsoii), 97 Apinl in a-and dys-menorrhopa (Corlieu), 393TNDKX. 482 Apoplexy of pons, recovery (MoUer), 88 Apoplexy, analysis of 40 fatal cases (Jones), 89 — from linat (Bonnyman), 72 Arlt, canc(?r of eyelid, 304 Arm, snrgiral diseases of, authors on, 351 Armand, M., trial of, for assault on Roux (Tatdien), 456 Arrow poisons, effects of (Braidwood), 443 Arsenic, death from external a|)plication of (T.iylor), 424 — do. to vagina (Briskin), 424 — recovery from (Maschka), 425 — rahhits fed on (Roussin), 27 — errors in Marsh's test for (Blondlot, Gaultier, Gamgee), 425-6 — purifying of 8(^3 from (Bussy and Buigne't, Bnchner, Blondlot), 428 Arsenic-eating, death from (Parker), 329 — in Styria (Maclagan), 428 Arseniuretted hydrogen, poisoning by (Olivier), 423 Artanthe adunca, new kind of raatico (Bentley), 436 Artemisia absinthium, evil effects of (Decaisne), 446 Arteries, large, treatment of wounds of (Reed), 259 — surgery of, authors on, 260 Articulation, difficult, and sub-occipital pain, from dilatation of (Ramskill), 120 Asche, H., glanders, as occurring in man, 40 Asthma, chloroform in (Salter), 133 — pot. iod. in do. 132 — dietary in (Smith), 132 Assimilation of isomorphous substances (Roussin), 27. Ataxic locomotrice, degeneration of spinal cord in (Axenfeld), 86 — state of sympathetic nerve in (Dnchenne), 85 — cured by cupping (?) (Monlineja), 86 — improved by arg. nit. ;,Bourillon), 84 Atropine, case of poisoning by, recovery, 442 — new mode of applying (Hornberger), 302 Atthill, L., retroversion of gravid uterus, with retention, 369 Aveling, on immediate transfusion, 389 Axenfeld, atrophic degeneration of spinal cord, 68 Bacteria, as cause of disease and infection (Davaine), 198 Banknrt, diseases of miners, 477 Barker, E., atrophy of tongue and muscles of speech, 110 Barnes, cancer of cervix uteri, with lym- )>hatic obstruction, 401 — increase of scurvy at sea, 478 Barnes, R., on spondylolisthesis, and pre- mature labour in, 372 BiirvN irdtel, degeneration of cord in ataxie, 87 Bastion, II. C, mode of origin of secondary cancerous growths, 272 Baudelot, functions of encephalon in mam- malia and fishes, 31 Beau, pleurisy giving rise to phthisis, 142 Beer and Billroth, pathological changes in the spleen, 170 Begbie, W. J., observations on favus, 173 Behier, thoracentesis in pleuritic effusion, 140 Behrend, bromide of potassium in insom- nia, 95 Beigel, H., on spirometry, 143 Bellini, on the absorption of iodine, 422 Benedikt, M., observations on hysteria, 75 Bentley, analysis of Hydrangea arborescens, 447 — new kind of matico, 436 Bernard, CI., experiments with the alka- loids of opium, 449 — influence of reflex action on secretion, 22 Bernatz, on pelvic haematocele, 402 Bernatzik, examination of cubebs, 434 Bernouilli, tetanus in the tropics, 232 Bernays, air of mines, 4 73 Bertlie (and Garrod), on codeia, 450 Bickersteth, E. R., new operation for un- united fracture, 280 Bid well, the tongue in malarious disease, 60 Bde secreted from hepatic artery (Ore), 19 — effect of alkalies on secretion of (Nasse), 20 — constituents of (Aniisell), 20 — biliary acids in icterus (lluppert and Bischoff), 21 Billroth and Beer, pathological changes in the spleen, 170 Birnbaum, variety in form of utenis with pregnancy, 376 Bischoff and Huppert, biliary acids in icterns, 21 Bismuthi liquor, composition of (Tich- borne), 430 Bites bv men, mortification after (Pri- bram), 206 Blncbez, on facial phlebitis, 267 Bladder, chronic hypertrophy of (Holt), epidermoid transformation of cpilnc- linm of (Lowcnson), 160 — diseases of, authors on, 344INDEX. 4S3 Bladder, extroversion of, authors on, 330 Bleeding from tlie ranine vein (Pissin). 128 Blondeaii, Ch., formation of fat from casein, 26 Blondlot, errors in testing for arsenic, 425 — pnrifying SO3 fiom arsenic, 426 Blootl, changes iii composition of, from ina- nition, 26 — cause of change of colour in (Schmidt), 2; (Stokes), 14 — corpuscles, amoeboid of (Preyer), 1 — crystallization of (Schmidt), 3 — siibpericranial etfusions of, in the newly horn (Liman), 464 Bloodlettiug, use of in disease (Markham), 61 — in pneumonia in Iceland (Hjaltelin), 137 — do. Vienna Hospital, 138 Blood-stains, haemiu as test for (Kunse), 456 Blood-vessels, contribution to pathologv of (VVedl), 123 — share of in new formations (Weber), 12 Bohr, respiration before birth, 460 Boinet, treatment of hydatid cysts of the liver, 328 Bone, inflammation of, authors on, 278 Bonnyman, J., on heat apoplexy, 72 Bottger, H., spontaneous rupture of heart, 121 Bouchut, on mediastinal tuberculosis, 415 — tuberculosis of bronchial glands, 141 — arg. nit. in paraplegia of children, 84 Boiidet, cause of the respiratory murmur, 17 Bourdon and Moissenet, syphilitic narrow- ing of trachea, 131 Bourillon, ataxie locomotrice, improved by arg. nit., 84 Boussingault, effect of light on vegetable light, 66 Braidwood, effects of arrow poisons, 443 Brain, apoplexy of (Wilks), 109 Braithwaite, quality of citrate of iron and quinine, 446 Bronchitis, chronic, tincture of larch in (Greenhow), 134 Braun, cephalolripsy as performed by (Rit- chie), 387 — vomiting of pregnancy, 363 — and Kiihn, induction of premature labour, 382 Breslau, life of foetus after death of mother, 357 — extra-nterine gestation with Fallopian polypi, 305 Bridger, J.,dipbthcria,post-mortem appear- ances in 24 cases, 55 Brisken, poisoning bv arsenic in vagina 424 Bromide of potassium in infantile convul- sions, 95 — in insomnia (Behrend), 95 Bromine, use of, in hospital gangrene, ery- sipelas, &c. (Post, Moses, Weeks), 27, 222 Bronchial glands, tuberculosis of (Kreuser, Bouchut), 141 Brown, B., retroflexion of uterus, 394 — surgical treatment of fibrous tumours of uterus, 399 Bruit de souffle, causes of (Marey), 10 — subclavian, in men (Palmer), 119 Bryson, epidemic pleuro-pneumonia in Me- diterranean fleet (1860), 139 Buchanan, G., tracheotomy in croup and diphtheria, 130 Buchner, purifying SO3 from arsenic, 428 Buhl, L., obstructions of the air-passages causing death of child after birth, 415 Bulley, F. A., hard tumour of tongue cured by Galium aperine, 147 Bumstead, J. F., venereal diseases of anus and rectum, 235 Buren,W.H. van, surgery of the rectum, 339 Burggraeve, use of the sulphites in pyaemia, 226 Burns, severe, belladonna internallv in, 209 — after death producing vesication (Du- vernoy), 459 — bv phosphorus, treatment of (Lambert), 208 Busch, W., forcible extension of contrac- tures of knee and hip, 282 Bussy and Boignet, preparation of hy- drocyanic acid, 451 — purifying SO3 from .trsenic, 427-8 Butvric acid injected into veins, effects of (Weber), 228 Caesarean section, cases of (Greenhalgb, Sadler, Anderson), 388 — compared with craniotomy (Murphv), 386 — results of (Martin), 359 Calabar bean, active principle of (Jobst and Hesse), 44 7 — poisoning by, at Liverpool, 448 — authors on, 307 Galvi, Marcbal dc, cerebral lesions in dia- betes, 168 Cameron, J., case of hydrophobia, 72 Cancer, epithelial, case of (Fleming), 276 — of eyelid (Arlt), 304 — secondary, mode of origin of (Bastion). 272 '484 INDKX. Cancer of uterus (Simpson, Hewitt, Saxin- ger, Barnes, Habit), 400 — autiiors on, 276 — of eye, aulliors on, 307 Cappie, case of doulile vagina, 390 Carl)onic oxide gas, poisoning Ijy (Marten), 421 Carliunde, treatment by pressure (Collis), 184 Caries of joints indicated by temperature (Meineke), 203 — aulliors on, 278 Casper, J. L., notice of life of, 455 — fatal case of poisoning by strychnia, 444 Cataract, on (Von Graefe), 308 — form of extraction knives (Zehender), 309 — authors on, 309 Catalytic diseases, alkaline and earthy sul- phites in (De Ricci), 191 Catheterization of air-tube in children born asphyxiated (Htiter), 415 Cerebellum, structure and functions of (Luys), 31 — abscess in, 89 — syphilitic disease of, recovery under mercury (Duplay), 96 — syphilitic tumour of (?), recovery under mercury (Leven), 88 Cervix uteri, disease of, removal, 391 Cevadilla seeds, action of (SchrofF), 433 Chancre, indurated, diagnosis from epi- thelioma (Maunder), 242 — do. excision of (Veale), 239 — do. do. (Humphry), 241 Chaplin, T., the fevers of Jerusalem, 186 Chapman, J., on sea-sickness, 150 Charcot, J. M., influence of lead poison- ing on gout, 61 Charrier, on hereditary syphilis, 64 ChaufFard, influence of race on results of operations, 193 Chaussit, so-called acute parasitic disease of skin, 172 Chest, surgical disease of, authors on, 327 Chevallier, A.,-adulterations of vinegar in France, 470 — poisoning by copper from iron vessel, 430 Child, disease of, impeding delivery (Ger- vis. Hicks), 380 Children, pidse in health in (Smith), 414 — diseases of, authors on, 354, 414 Chloroform in asthma (Salter), 133 — facial spasm cured by (Costes), 99 Choroid, affections of, authors on, 310 Christie, on shoulder presentations of the foetus, 378 Chromates, manufacturers of, disease of nose among (Hillairct), 475 Cinchonia, as substitute for quina (Turner), 60 Cinchona bark, inferior quality of (How- ard), 446 Clark, Andrew, lectures in London Hos- pital reports, 192 Clarke, J. L., pathology of tetanus, 81, 232 — do. paraplegia, 84, 96 Clayton, purity of iodide of potassium, 423 Cockle, J., lumbar pain in abdominal aneurism, 122 Coglan, on dysmenorrhoea and sterility, 393 Cold, condition of body in death from (Dieberg), 458 — influence of, on nerves (Rosenthal), 97 Colen, G., differences between right and left cavities of heart, 12 Collis, H., treatment of anthrax by pres- sure, 184,251 — treatment of gonorrhrea, 237 Collis, M. H., Laminaria digit, bougies in organic stricture, 346 Collis, W., treatment of anaestheticleprosv, 179 Concato, on the absorption of iodine, 422 Conjunctiva, authors on, 307 Contractions of knee and hip treated by forcible extension (Busch), 282 Convulsions, infantile, (lOt. bromid. in (Jones), 95 — unilateral (Jackson), 66 Copper, poisoning by, from iron vessel (Chevallier), 430 Cord, umbilical, prolapsus of, treatment (Simpson, Thomas), 379 Corlieu, apiol in amenorrhoea and dys- menorrhcea, 393 Cornea, authors on, 307 Cornil, alterations in nerves and muscles in hemiplegic contraction, 100 Corpora quadrigemina, tubuculosis of (He- noch and Steffeii), 89 Corrosive sublimate, poisoning by (Taylor, Anderseck), 431 Corvisart, L., digestion of albuminoid sub- stances by the pancreas, 19 Coste, production of ciliated aniinal- culaj, 5 Costes, histrionic facial spasm cured by chloroform, 99 Cousins, J. \V., cases of myelitis, 83 Cotton, R. P., therapeutic agents in phthisis, 141 Craniotomy, case of, pelvimeter (Meadows), 386INDEX. 485 Craniotomy, comparative claims of, and Caesarean section ; Earle's pelvimeter (Murphy), 386 — forceps in (Powell), 385 Crichton, gastrotomy successful in case of ruptured uterus, 381 Croup,diphtheritic,tracbeotomyiM(Spence), 130 Culjebs, examination of (Rernatzik), 434 — new form of (Pas and Griiuewegen), 436 Curcas purgans, poisoning by, at Birming- ham, 437 Czermak, J., laryngeal mirror in case of foreign body in pharynx, 319 Dajaksch. See Arrow poisons. Daiijoy, al!)uminuria in lead poisoning, 167 Dancel, influence of fluid on obesity, 24 Dareste, C, effect of beat locally applied on development, 5 Davaine, on bacteria, 198 Davis, H., acute rheumatism treated by free blistering, 56 Day, E., extra-uterine foetation, followed by intra-uterine pregnancy, 367 Deaf-mutism, anomalous condition of inter- nal ear in (Dardel), 318 — and blindness in Bavaria and Ireland (Kuchler), 479 Death, hour of, in acute and chronic disease (Haviland), 192 Decaisne, evil effects of absinthe, 446 Decidua, glands of, and hydrorrhoea gravi- darum (Hegar), 360 Delioux de Savignac, musk and acetate of ammonia in severe pneumonia with deli- rium, 134 Delirium of fever, &c., and insanity, dia- gnosis of (Dumesnil), 108 Delirium tremens, recovery under digitalis, 6 cases (Heed), 71 Delivery after death, case of (Taylor), 460 Delivery. See Labour. Delpech, on measly pork and vrorms from raw beef, 470 Demarquay and Leconte, physiological effects of oxygen, 6 Demme, H., pathology of tetanus, 232 — curare in tetanus, 233 Demme, R., therapeutical use of nitro- glycerine, 454 Development, effect of heat locally applied on (Dareste), 5 Devers, spontaneous malignant pustule, 183 Diabetes, cerebral symptoms in (De Calvi), 168 — chloride of arsenic in(Rees), 169 — diet in (Smith), lf>8 — treatment of (Anstie), 1G8 Diarrhoea, trisnitrate of bismuth in (Trask), 150 — reports of Vienna Hospital, 1860-2, 149 Diatlieses, liereditary (Sutton), 58 Dicrotisni of pulse (Marey, Kaschlakoff, Landois), 9-11 Dickinson, W. 11., treatment of albumi- nuria in children, 166 Die, treatment by vapour of pitch-furnaces at (Ireland), 433 Dieberg, condition of body in death from cold, 458 Diet in emaciation (Smith), 36 — obesity do. 37 Dietary in disease (Smith)—asthma, 132; phthisis, 142 Digestion, impaired, fermentation in (Scbultze), 22 Digitaline, characters of (Lefort), 438 — dialysis and other tests for (Grandeau), 438 — effects of, on the heart (Vulpian), 441 — do. in large doses (Faure), 441 — poisoning of Mad. Pauw by (Tardieu and Roussin), 439 Digitalis, poisoning by infusion of (Mazel), 437 Diphtheria, bromine in (Post), 217 — in Campbeltown (Gibson), 55 — heart disease in, post-mortem in 24 cases (IJridger), 55 Diphtheritic wounds (Hutchinson), 207 Dislocation of humerus, forearm torn off in reduction (Guerin), 287 — rupture of axillary vein from (Harley), 287 — authors on, 288 Dobell, H., assimilation of fat in phthisis, 143 Dohow, case of infanticide, 463 Douitz, structure of intestinal mucous membrane, 18 Doutrelepont, operative treatment of pyae- mia, 226 Down, J. L., on polysarcia and its treat- ment, 39 — ammonia in scarlatina, 55 Drainage tube in pleuritic effusion (Kidd), 140 Dressmakers, sanitary condition of, in Lon- don, 473 Dron, A., syphilitic disease of epididymis, 172 Dropsy, renal, diuretics in large doses in (Wade), 163 — spontaneous-diuresis in acute f Johnson), 166 Duchcnne, state of sympathetic nerve in ataxic locomotrice, 85486 INDEX. Diichesne-Diiparc, treatment of prurigo,177 Ductus Botallii, puncture of (Scliiiitzler and Riikitansky), 119 Dumesnil, diagnosis of insanity from deli- rium, 108 Duncan, M., source of hasmorrhage in fibrous tumour of uterus, 398 Durham, A. E., osteomalacia and porous liyperostosis, 279 Duvernoy, vesication by burn after death, 459 Dysentery, on, naval medical contributions (Macl<ay), 152 Dysmenorrhoea and sterility, on (Coglan), 393 — use of apiol in (Corlieu), 393 Dysphagia, tracheal (Salter), 144 Ear, internal disease of, producing abscess in cerebellum (Edwards), 89 — do., authors on, 317 — do., trephining mastoid process in (Pagenstecher), 314 Eherbeck andEichberg,report of asylums at (Graser), 108 Ectropium, cases of (Roller), 304 Eczema, on (Wilson), 181 — (Meade), 182 Edmunds, J., tetanus treated by ice to spine, 79 Edwards and Cameron, poisoning by cala- bar bean, 448 Eichwald, angina pectoris and its relation to sub-paralysis of the heart, 118 Electricity, non-effect of induced, and power of constant, current on paralysed muscles (Neumann), 85 Elephantiasis, case of amputation for (Fiddes), 251 — case of (SieflFen), 251 Ellis, R., recovery from o.\a!ic acid, 422 Emaciation, dietetic treatment of, 36 Embolism (Jackson), 66 — pulmonary, sudden death from, in frac- ture, &c. (Azam), 193 — do., after removal of a tumour (Wahl), 193 Emphysema, hypertrophy of left heart in (Waters), 120 — (report of the Vienna Hospital), 134 Epidemic occurrence of some surgical diseases (Billroth), 193 Epi<lemic of spotted fever near Phila- delphia, 1863 (Gerhard and Lamb), 42 — do. in Rhode Island, 1863 (Wales), 43 Epididymis, syphilitic disease of (Dron), 172 Epiglottis, functions of (Schiff), 27 — iuflamraation of, cases (Windsor), 130 Epilepsy, clinical lectures on (Ramskill), 77 — bromide of potassium in (M'Donnell, Rogers), 78 — hemiplegia, &c. (Jackson), 66 Epithelioma, diagnosis from indurated chancre (Maunder), 242 Rrysipelas, on (Mackay), 61 — indicated by temperature (Ileineke), 203 — use of bromine in (Post), 217 Estor and St. Pierre, cause of the red colour in inflammation, 4 Eustachian tube, authors on, 318 E.xcision of elbow (Doutrelepont), 290 — of knee (Fergusson), 288 — do., longitudinal incision in (Iliiter),291 — of lower jaw, preventing disfigurement after, 299 — authors on, 292 E.xertion and food, relation of (Pettenkofer and Voit), 25 Exophthalmic goitre, authors on, 306 Exophthalmos (Knapp and Rothmund), 306 — cardio-thyroidean (Graefe), 70 — clinical lecture on (Laycock), 70 E.vostosis in left nasal fossa and pharynx removed (Legouest), 278 — sub-ungual (Nelaton), 351 Eye, surgery of, authors on, 301-314 Eyes, luminous (Stellwag, v. Corion), 302 Eyelid, cancer of (Arit), 304 Fabricius Hildanus, memoir of (Meyer- Alirens), 193 Falconer, R. W., tetanus, recovery after ice to spine, 80 Fat, formation of, from casein (Blondeau), 26 Fatigue, sense of (Lasegue), 76 Faure, effects of digitaline in large doses, 441 Favus, clinical observations on, 1 73 Fenwick, S., condition of stomach and in- testines in scarlatina, 147 Fergusson, W., on excision of knee, 288 — non-removal of skin in excision of tumours, 272 — threatened non-union in operation for hare-lip, 318 Fever, enteric, with heart disease (Lon- don), 118 — produced by injection of blood from septica:mic animals, 230 — intermittent, urine in (Nicholson), 59 — do. sulphate of cinchonia in (Turner), 60 — malarious, treatment of (Hare), 60 — of East Central Africa (Meller), 60 — rheumatic, obscure forms of (Sutton), 57INDEX. 487 Fever, typhoid, miasmatic (Levick), 52 — typliiis, alcoholic stimulants in (Gaird- ner), 45 — do. and typhoid, condition of urine in (Spanton), 47 — do. analysis of 300 cases of (Rus- sell), 49 — resembling typhus at first, typhoid afterwards (Giiil, Wilks), 48 — spotted, epidemic of, near Philadel- phia (Gerhard and Lamb), 42 — do. do. in Rhode Island, 1863 (Wales), 43 — syphilitic (Giintz), 242 Fevers of Jerusalem (Cliaplin), 186 Fiddes, case of amputation for elephan- tiasis, 251 Fistula, recto-vesical, operation (Lane), 349 Fleet, Mediterranean, pleuro-pneumonia epidemic (Bryson), 139 Fleming, C., case of epithelial cancer, 276 Foetus, life of, after death of mother (Bres- lau), 357 Fonssagrives, zinc vessels for water, 469 Food of labouring classes (Smith), 470 — and excretion, relation of (Pettenkofer and Voit), 25 — authors on, 470 Forceps in craniotomy (Powell), 385 — in difficult labour (Ryan, Halahan), 384 Fo.x, T., on impetigo contagiosa, 173 — on so-called parasites of the skin, 174 Fracture, new operation for ununited (Bickersteth), 280 — ununited, of tibia, cure (Reid), 281 — authors on, 281 Franque, Von A., case of haemorrhagic sweat, 179 — on prosopalgia, 99 Friedreich, E., poisoning by aniline colours, 454 Fiunientel, experiments on spontaneous ceneration, 4 Fuller, H. W., clinical lecture on sciatica, 59 Gairdnrr, use of alcoholic stimulants in typhus fever, 45 Gamgre, A., errors in testing for arsenic, 420 — death from slaughtering a diseased bull, 470 Gangrene, on the spread of (Wahl), 231 — hospital, nature of (Tliorason, Parker), 217 — do. in successive epidemics of, (Pryer), 28 — without previous wound (Hamilton), 218 Gangrene, hospital, bromine in (Thom- son, Parker, Hamilton), 217-18 — do. opium and ammonia in (Pick), 220 — permanganate of potash in (IIinkle), 220 — do. (Moses, Stanford, Weeks, Post), 223-4 — do. authors on, 225-232 Garihaldi, report on wound of (Basile and Ripari), 215 Garrod (and Berthe), properties of codeia, 450 Gastro-intestinal catarrh, Vienna Hospital reports, 1860-2, 149 Gastrotomy, successful in case of ruptured uterus (Crichton), 381 Gaultier de Claubry, errors in testing for arsenic, 426 Genito-urinary system, diseases of, authors on, 342 Gerhard and Lamb, epidemic of spotted fever near Philadelphia, 42 Gerhardt, direct treatment of icterus catarrhalis, 159 Gervis (and Hicks), disease of cliild im- peding delivery, 380 Gibb, G., on albuminuric aphonia, 128 — disease of trachea and bronchi, 128 Gillespie, death after local application of iodine, 422 Glanders in man, (Asche), 40 Glauber's salt, influence of, on metamor- phosis of matter (Seegnen), 26 Glaucoma, authors on, 310 Gleet, treatment of (CoUis), 237-8 — authors on, 238 Gout, influence of lead poisoning on de- velopment of (Charcot), 61 Graefe, on cardio-lhyroidean exophthal- mia, 70 Graefe, von, on cataract, 308 — diagnosis between cellulitis and perios- titis in the orbit, 305 — facial spasm, division of nerve, 82 Griiser, report of asylums of Eberbeck and Eichber'g, 108 Grehaut, N., interchange of gases in lungs, 16 Greig, D., insufflation as remedy in intus- susception, 151, 331 Greenhalgh, on placenta praivia, 380 Grcenhow, H., tinct. of larch in chronic bronchitis, 134 Guerin, A., forearm torn off during re- duction of dislocation, 287 Gniljourt, new form of jalap, 44.'* Guinea worm (Bastian), 235 Gull, W. W., aneurism of aorta opening into superior vena cava, 122488 INDEX. Gull, W.W., fever, appearing at first typhus, then typlioid, 48 Gunshot wounds in the army of the Cum- berland (Moses), 210 — reflex paralysis as a result of (Mitchell, Morehouse, Keen), 211 Giinlz, E., on syphilitic fever, 242 Guyton, mechanism of strangulation in hernia, and use of chloroform during taxis, 334 Habershon, S. 0., implication of vagi nerves in aneurisms and tumours, 121 Habit, case of recovery from cancer of uterus and vagina, 401 Hoematocele, pelvic (M'Clintock, Tuck- well), 402 Haematuriaof Cape of Good Hope (Harley), 163 Haemorrhoids, forcible dilatation of sphinc- ter in (Van Buren), 340 — ecraseur in internal (Hamilton), 341 Hsemorrhage and haemorrhagic diathesis, authors on, 268 — cerebral, analysis of 40 fatal cases (Jones), 89 Halalian, difficult labour, forceps cases, 384 Hamberger and Anderseck, poisoning by corrosive sublimate, 431 Hamilton, E., ecraseur in treatment of haemorrhoids, 341 Hamilton, F. H., hospital gangrene with- out previous wound, 218 — treatment of hospital gangrene, 222 Hare, treatment of malarious fever, 60 Hare-lip, threatened non-union after operation (Fergusson), 318 — authors on, 319 Harley, G., on uro-haematin, 160 Harlev, J., haematuria of Cape of Good Hope, 163 Hassall, A. H., blood and urine in de- generation of kidneys, 163 Hariand, A., hour of death in acute and chronic disease, 192 Head, surgery of (Teevan, Hewett), 296 — authors on, 299 Headache in nervous women, turpentine in (Teissier), 97 Heart, diflferences between right and left cavities of (Colen), 12 — dilatation of left, w itii difficulty of arti- culation and suboccipital pain(Rainskill), 120 — enfeebled, slowness of pulse a sign of (Peacock), 125 — experiments upon action of (Marey, [ Koschlakoif, Landois), 7-11 , Heart, enfeebled, digitalis in (Stirling), 128 — hypertrophy of left, in emphysema (AVaters), 120 — influence of gaseous contents of blood upon action of (Thiry), 7 — insnffi(;iency of valves of (Skoda), 119 — malformation of (Lebert), 120 — rupture of septum from kick of horse (Horing), 120 — signs of disease of, by pulse, 10 — spontaneous rupture of (Boltger), 121 — disease of, connection with apoplexy (Jones), 93 — disease, pathology of (Ormerod), 111 Heat apoplexy (Bonnyman), 72 Heat, local, effect of, on development (Dareste), 5 Hegar, A., glands of the decidua and hydrorrhoea gravidarum, 360 Heineke, value of measurements of tem- perature in surgical cases, 203 — tetanus aftei" operation for cancer of cervix uteri, 391 Hemeialopia, authors on, 314 Heniipiegic contractures, alterations in nerves and muscles in (Cornil), 100 Hemiplegia, with loss of speech (Jack- son), 66 ; (Russell), 68 Henocli and Sieffen, tuberculosis of corp. quadrig., 89 Heiapath, W. B., indigo in purlent dis- charges, 215 Hereditary insanity (Stewart), 103 Hermann, F., on scurvy, 116 Hernia, mechanism of strangulation, and use of chloroform duringtaxis (Guvton), 334 — new mode of operating for (Langen- beck), 336 — radical cure of reducible (Porter), 331 — reduction of voluminous, by elastic pressure (Nelaton), 333 — simplification of the extra-peritoneal operation (Jordan), 337 — autliors on, 338-9 Hewitt, G., apparatus for transfusion, 389 — cancer of fundus uteri, 400 — delivery by turning, 384 Hewitt, P. G., caries and necrosis of bones of skull, 297 Hewson, A., on Pirogoff's amputation, 292 Ilicks, B., delivery by turning, 383 — statistics of Guy's Lying-in Charity, 354 llillairet, disease of nose in manufacturers of chromate of potass, 475 Hillier, T., on alopecia and tinea, 176489 INDEX. Hiiikle, F., permanganate of potash in hospital gangrene, 220 Hippuric acid in urine (Mattschersky'), 21 rijaltelin, J., epidemic pneumonia in Ice- land, 1863, 135 Hedge, II. L., on the mechanism of labour, 371 Holil, case of poisoning by atropine, reco- very, 442 » Hohnes, T., congenital innocent tumours, 268 Holt, chronic liydrartlirosis of knee, 282 Holt, B. chronic hypertrophy of bladder, 343 Halt, R., anomalous case of hysteria, 75 Ilomberger, J., new mode of applying atropine, 302 Horing, rupture of septum of heart from kick of a horse, 120 Hospitals, investigation of (Bristowe, Holmes), 467 Hospital gangrene. See Gangrene. Howard, ice to spine in hysterical opis- thotonos, 82 — root-bark in cinchona, 446 Humphry, treatment of chancre by mer- cury, 241 Huppert and BischotF, the biliary acids in icterus, 21 Hutcliinson, J., amaurosis from tobacco (?), 312 — belladonna in severe burns, 208 — dipliiheritic or pellicular wounds, 20 7 — five cases of true leprosy, 39 — leucoderma, and its diagnosis from Addison's disease, 185 — on organic diseases of the ovaries, 407 — surgical treatment of fibrous tumour of uterus, 396 — on uterine polypi, 406 Hutchinson, J. H., hysterical aphonia and deafness, etherized, 97 Hiiter, catheterization of the air-tube in children born asphyxiated, 415 Hiiter, V., anteversioa of gravid uterus, 368 — habitual abortion,' with flexion of uterus, 369 Hydatid of liver, treatment of (Boinet), 328 — authors on, 330 Hydrangea arboresccns, analvsis of (Bent- ley), 447 Hydrocele, authors on, 343 Hydrocyanic acid, poisoning bv (Otto), 451 — mode of preparing (Bussy and Buiguet), 451 Hydrophobia, case of (Whittle), 70 j (Cameron), 71 Hydrophobia, authors on, 234 Hysteria case of anomalous (Holt), 75 Hysterical anaesthetic ataxia (Lasegue), 76 — aphonia and deafness cured by etheriza- tion (Hutchinson), 97 — opisthotonos, ice to spine in (Howard), 97 — paralysis and loss of speech (Wilks), 68 — do. observations on (Benedikt), 75 Ice to spine in opisthotonos (Howard), 82 Iceland, epidemic pneumonia in (Hjaltelin), 135 Impetigo contag., on (Fox), 173 Impotence, imaginary (Parker), 341 Inanition, changes produced in composi- tion of blood (Panum), 26 Indigo in purulent discharges (Herapath), 215 Infanticide, signs of (Bohr, Krahmer, Liinan, and others), 460-3 — case of (Dohow), 463 Infection, purulent, infusoria as agents in (Wells), 194 Infectious diseases, isolation of (Murciii- son), 41 Inflammation, cause of the red colour in (Ester and St. Pierre), 4 — influence of trophic nerves on (Weber), 33 — of serous membranes, textural changes in (Turner), 34 Influenza, epidemic of, 1861, 1863, &c. (Levick), 135 Insane, on the writings of (Marce), 465 — Townley not, 465 Insanity, hereditary, on (Stewart), 103 — influence of ague on (Nasse), 109 — refusal of food in (Williams), 110 — syphilitic (Jacksch), 65 — and delirium, diagnosis of fDumesnil), 108 — and rheumatism (Sander), 107 — authors on, 103 Intestine, wounds of, authors on, 330 Intestinal mucous membrane, structure of (Donitz), 18 — obstruction, 331 Intussusception, insufflation in (Greig), 151 — authors on, 331 Iodide of potassium, purity of (Clayton), 423 Iodine, experiments on absorption of (Bellini, Renzi, Concato), 442 — death after local application of (Gillespie), 422 Ipecacuanha, effects of, in disease (Pecho- lier), 447 Ipomca turbethum, analysis of (Vogl), 443INDEX. 490 Ireland, W. W., vapour of pitch-furnoces in medicine, 433 Iridectomy for artificial pupil (Windsor), 307 —in operation for cataract (Von Graefe), 308 Iris, affections of, authors on, 308 Jacksch, syphilis of internal organs, 65 Jackson, H., diseases of nervous system, 96 — loss of speech, and other nervousaffec- tions, embolism in, 66 Jalap, examination of new form of, (Guibourt), 443 Jatropha nuts, poisoning by, at Birming- ham, 437 Jaundice, biliary acids in (Huppert and Bischoff), 21 Jaundice, catarrhal, direct treatment of (Gerhardt), 159 Jaw, lower, excision of, prevention of disfigurement (Langenbeck), 299 — surgery of, authors on, 301 Jaws, immobility of (Heath), 318 Jerusalem, fevers of (Cbaplin), 186 Jobst and Hesse, active principle of cala- bar bean, 447 Johnson, G., spontaneous diuresis in acute renal dropsy, 16 6 Joints, disease of, authors on, 287 —contractures of (Busch), 282 Jones, T., analysis of 40 fatal cases of cerebral lisemorrhage, 89 Jones, J., pot. bromid. in infantile con- vulsions, 95 Jodin, F. v., effect of light on vegetable life, 5 Jordan, F., simplification of the extra- peritoneal operation in hernia, 337 Joulin, the pelvis in various races of man, 356 Kidb, treatment of scabies, 179 Keiller, excrescence of cervix uteri re- moved by ecraseur, 391 Kempff, v., on scurvy, 116 Ker, T. F., treatment of acne rosacea, 179 Kesteven, poisoning from leg of pork, 4 70 Kidd, vomiting in the eighth month of pregnancy, 364 Ki<ld, G. H., drainage tube for removal of fluids from pleura, 140 Kidnev, degeneration of, blood and urine in, 163 Kidneys, disease of, connection with apo- plexy (Jones), 93 Klein, on stone and its treatment in Russia, 348 Knee, chronic hydrarthrosis of, cure (Holt), 282 — contractions of, treated by extension (Uusch), 282 — opening, in abscess of (Moses), 210 Koller, R., cases of ectropinm, 304 Koselilakoff, character of pulse, 11 Krahmer, signs of infanticide, 460 Kreatin and kreatinin, presence of, in muscle (Saroliow, Newbauer), 24 — effects in producing fatigue of muscle (Ranke), 23 Kreuser, tuberculosis of bronchial glands, 141 Kliichler, deaf mutism and blindness in Bavaria and Ireland, 479 Kiibn and Braun, induction of prema- ture labour, 382 Kunse, haemin as test for blood-stains, 456 Kussmaul, pathology of the urinarv organs, 164 Labour, mechanism of (Hodge), 371 — missed (M'Clintock, Schnlz), 370 — premature,in spondylolisthesi$(Barnes), 372 — twin, extending over 3 days (Abar- banell), 377 — abnormal presentations, prolapsus funis (Christie, Simpson, Thomas), 378 — impeded by disease of child (Gervis, Hicks), 380 — induction of premature, method and statistics of (Kiihn, Simpsou, Moir, Barnes,) 382 — delivery by turning (Hicks, Hewitt), 383 — do. forceps (Ryan, Halahan), 384 — craniotomv in (Murphy, Meadows, Powell), 385 — cephalotripsy in (Ritchie,Winckel), 387 — Caesarean section in (Greenliaigh, Sadler, Anderson), 388 Lachrymal apparatus, authors on, 307 Laminaria digitata bougies in organic stricture (Collis), 346 Lancereaux albuminuria in lead poisoning, 167 — angina pectoris, post-mortem, 118 — sypliilitic lesions of internal viscera, 61, 246 Landois, character of pulse, 11 Lane, J. R., operation for recto-urcthral fistula, 349 — pregnancy after operative closure of os uteri, 361 iINDEX. 491 Lange, tetanus, recovery after use of to- bacco, 79 Langenbeck, means of preventing disfigure- ment after excision of lower jaw, 299 — perforations of hard palate, 319 Langenbeck, B., new mode of rhinoplasty, 204 Langenbeck, M., new mode of operating for hernia, 336 Laryngoscopy, illurainatiou in (Walker, Mackenzie), 130 — notes on (Mackenzie), 129 Larvnx and trachea, disease of, authors on, 327 Lasegue, A., hysterical anaesthesia and ataxia, 76 Laugier, suture of nerves, 259 Law, R., treatment of acute rheumatism, 56 Laycock, T., on exophthalmos, 70 Lead, diseases of workers in (Whitley), 475 — poisoning, albuminuria in (Olivier, Lan- ceraux, Danjoy), 167 — influence of, on development of gout (Charcot), 61 Leared, A., tubercular meningitis (.'), re- covery under pot. iod., 95 Lebert, malformation of heart, 120 Lefort, on digitaline, 438 Leg, surgical diseases of, authors on, 352 Lemaire, J., presence of microzoa in the air, 4 Lembert, treatment of burns by phospho- rus, 308 Lens, affections of, authors on, 309 Leprosv, five cases of true (Hutchinson), 39 — of India, treatment of (CoUis), 179 Leucocjthcemia, recovery from (Martyn), 117 — fatal cases of (Merbach), 117 Leucoderma, diagnosis, &c., of (Hutchin- son), 185 Leven, syphilitic tumour in cerebellum (.'), recovery, 88 Levick, J., epidemic influenza of 1861 and 1863, 135 Levick, J. J., miasmatic typhoid fever, 52 Lichen, treatment of (Nayler), 180 Lidell, J. A., major amputations for in- juries, 293 Ligature of arteries, preliminary discus- sion on, in Acad, des Sc., 202 Liglitning, 3 persons struck by (Mackin- tosh), 186 Linian, signs of infanticide by drowning, 463 — subpericranial effusions of blood in the newly born, 464 Liniment, compound camphor, poisoning by (Taylor), 454 Lion, resume of poisoning by strvchnia 445 Lithotomy, recto-vesical (Jones, Bauer, Lane), 349 — in Russia (Klein), 348 — and lithotrity, authors on, 350 Liver, abscess in, treatment of (Martin), 154 — cases of echinococcus in (Storch), 160 — direct treatment of catarrhal jaundice (Gerhardt), 159 — diseases of, authors on, 154 — functions of (Ore), 19 — syphilis of (Oppolzer), 157 — do. case (Stewart), 159 London, B., enteric fever with disease of muscle of heart, 118 Lowenson, epidermoid transformation of epithelium of bladder, 169 Luminous eyes (Stellwag, v. Corion), 302 Luys, structure and functions of cerebel- lum, 31 Martyn, S., infra-raammary pain, 69 — recovery from leucocythaemia, 117 Masclika, poisoning by arsenic, recovery, 425 Mastoid process, trephining (Pagenstecher), 314 Matico, new form of (Bentley), 436 Matthews, D., uterine haematocele with extra-uterine gestation, 366 Mattschersky, hippiiric acid in urine, 21 Maunder, C. F., diagnosis of indurated chancre, 242 Mauzevin, J. and C., new treatment of malignant pustule, 185, 234 Mazel, poisoning by digitalis, case, 437 Meade, R. H., treatment of eczema, 182 Meadows, A., craniotomy, Earle's pelvi- meter, 386 Meat, diseased, poisoning from (Gamgee, Kesteven, Delpecli), 470 Membraiia tympani, authors on, 318 Meningitis, tubercular (?), recovery under iodine (Leared), 95 Merbach, fatal case of leucocythaemia, 117 Mercier, L. A., cause of recurrence after operations for stone, 347 Mercury, diseases of workers in (Whitley, Taylor), 4 76 — poisoning by (Tavlor, Anderseck, Ham- berger), 431-2 — do. from packing hides (Taylor), 477 Metamorphosis of matter, influence of Glauber's salt on (Seegnen), 26 Miasmatic typhoid fever (Levick), 52INDEX. 492 Midwifery, statistics of Guy's Lying-in Ciiarity, 354 — aiitl\ors on, 353 M'Clintock, oijservations on missed labour, 370 — on pelvic lirematocele, 402 M'Donnell, 11 , Ijromide of potassium in certain forms of epilepsy, 78 Mackay, A. E., on erysipelas, Gl Mackay, on dysentery (naval medical con- tributions), 152 Mackenzie, M., notes on laryngoscopy, 129 — ligbt-condenser in do., 130 Mackenzie, W., amaurosis with albuminuria, 312 Mackintosh, D., three persons struck by lightning, 186 Maclagan, arsenic-eating in Styria, 428 Malaria, frequency of, in marshy districts (Whitley), 467' Malarious fever due to heat (Bonnyman), 74 — the tongue in (Bidwell), 60 — cinchonia in, as substitute for quinia (Turner), 60 — treatment of (Hare), 60 Mamma, disease of, authors on, 327 Mania from sun-stroke (Paterson), 72 Marce, L. V., on the writings of the in- sane, 465 Marey, experiments on pulse, 7 Marowski, L., on the social relations of syphilis, 64 Marshy districts, frequency of malarious disease in (Whitley), 467 Marten, poisoning by carbonic oxide, 421 — results of Caesarean section, 359 Martin, J. R., treatment of acute suppura- tion in liver, 154 Mariyn, H. A., os and cervix uteri forming external tumour, excision, 391 Milk, new albuminoid substance in (Mil- Ion and Commaille), 19 Millon and Commaille, new albuminoid substance in milk, 19 Mineral waters of England and Continent (Altbaus), 189 — Swiss Alps (Weber), 190 Miners, diseases of (Peacock, Bankart), 477 Mines, air of (Smith and Bernays), 478 Moir, induction of premature labour, 383 Moissenet and Bourdon, syphilitic narrow- ing of trachea, 131 Mnles, tumours under (Paget), 271 Moller, apoplexy of pons Vaiolii, recovery, 88 Mullities ossium. See Osteomalacia. Monlineja, A. de, cupping to spine in ataxic locomotrice, 86 Monre, C. H., new method of consolidating fibrin in aneurism, 265 — wounds of pharynx, 319 Mocire, W., diagnosis and treatment of thoracic aneurism, 121 Morin, A., purifying of air by pulverized water, 468 Morphia, hypodermic injections, case of long-continued, 256 Mortality in Norwich Hospital under dif- ferent treatments (Richardson), 192 Moses, J., bromine in hospital gangrene, 222 — notes of gunshot wounds in the army of the Cumlierland, 210 Mountain climate, effects of (Weber), 190 Mouth, diseases of, authors on, 318 Munk, P., on uraemia, 165 Murchison, on the isolation of infectious diseases, 41 Murphy, craniotomy and Cesarean section, Earle's pelvimeter, 386 Murray, W., aneurism of abdominal aorta ciu-ed by pressure, 122 Muscles, changes in, during action (Saro- kow), 24 —chemicalconditionsof fatigue of (Ranke), 23 — of speech and others, progressive atrophy of (Barker), 110 — voluntary, tumours in (Teevan), 254 — and tendons, authors on, 255 Musk and acetate of ammonia in pneu- monia, 134 Myelitis, cases of acute and chronic (Cou- sins), 83 — do. (Radcliffe), 83 Nagel, A., peculiar affection of retina, 310 Narcotics and stimulants, on (Anstie), 417 Nasse, H., effect of alkalies on secretion of bile, 20 Nasse, W., influence of ague on insanity, 109 Naylcr, G., treatment of lichen, 180 Neck, disease of, authors on, 325 Necrosis of bones of skull (Hewitt), 297 — from phosphorus (Wahl), 270 — authors on, 278 Needlewomen, sanitary condition of, in London (Ord), 473 Nc'laton, on sub-ungual exostosis, 351 — reduction of large hernias by elastic pressure, 333 — suture of nerves, 259 Nelaton's probe, on the use of (Hamilton), 209493 INDEX. Nerves, Hivision of, in facial spasm (v. Graefe), 82 — influence of cold on sensory and motor (Rosenthal), 97 — resections of (Scluih), 99 — paralysis from injury to (Paget), 255 — neuralgic affections from injuiy to (Warren), 256 — pneuinogastric, implicated in aneurisms or tumours (Habershon), 121 — suture of (Laugier, Nelatiin), 259 — tropliic, influence of, on inflammation (Wel)er), 33 — and muscles, changes in, in hemiplegic contraclures (Coinil), 100 Nervous action, development of heat by (Valentin), 32 — centres, functions of, in birds, reptiles, and fishes (Renzi), 28 — do. fishes (Baudelot), 31 — do. (Luys), 31 — system, diseases of, authors on, 96 Neubauer, kreatin and kreatinin in muscle, 24 Neumann, E., induced and constant cur- rent in paralysis, 85 Neumann, 0., riiciotism of pulse, 12 Neuralgia, on (Trousseau), 98 — case of (v. Franque), 99 — from wounds of nerves (Warren), 256 — do. authors on, 258 Nicholson, E., urine in intermittent fever, 59 Nitro-glycerine, effects of (Albers), 453 — therapeutical use of (Denime), 454 Nitrate of silver in ataxie locomotrice (Bourillon), 84 — in diphtheritic paralysis (Raciborski), 96 — in paraplegia of children (Bouchut), 84 Nose, new mode of treating diseases of cavity of (Thudichum), 131 — disease of, authors on, 325 Notta, santonine simulating sugar in urine, 446 Nussbaum, prolongation of chloroform- anffisthesia for several hours by mor- phia injections, 204 Obesity, fluid producing (Dancel), 24 — treatment of (Smith), 37 — do. (Radclifle), 38 ; (Down), 39 Occupations, healthiness of (Smith), 471 ffisopliagus, authors on, 324 Ogle, J. W., 75 cases of scrofulous disease of brain and cord, 96 — tetanus, nicotine uniuccessful, 79 OUivier, albuminuria in lead poisoning, 167 — poisoning by arseniuretted hydrogen, 423 Operations, influence of race on results of (Chauffard), 193 — causes of excessive mortality after (Wells), 194 — scarlatina after (Paget), 200 Ophthalmije, external, sulphate of copper in, 301 Opium, alkaloids of, experiments with (Bernard), 450 Oppolzer, syphilis of liver, 157 Orbit, cellulitis in, and periostitis, dia- gnosis between (v. Graefe), 305 Ord, sanitary condition of dressmakers and needlewomen in London, 473 Ore, functions of portal vein, 19 Ormerod, E. L., present state of cardiac pathology. 111 Orthopaedic surgery, authors on, 352 Osteomalacia and porous hyperostosis (Durham), 279 Ott. A., case of extra-uterine gestation, 367 Otto, poisoning by hydrocyanic acid, 451 Ovaries, case of uterus with three (Gi ohe), 390 — organic diseases of (Hutchinson), 407 — menorrhagia from morbid changes in (Priestley), 407 Ovaiiotomy, on (West), 410 — latest statistics of, 414 — authors on, 410 Oxalic acid, recovery from (Ellis), 422 Oxaluria, amaurosis with (Mackenzie), 312 Oxygen, physiological effects of (Demar- quay and Leconte), 6 Ozone, generated by current of pulverized water (Morin), 468 Pagenstecher, on trephining mastoid pro- cess and petrous bone, 314 Paget, J., scarlatina after operations, 200 — treatment of paralysis from injury to nerve-trunlis, 255 — tumours under moles, 271 Pain, infra-mammary, physiological mean- ing of (Martyn), 69 Palate, accidental perforations of hard (Langenbeck), 319 — scrofulous disease of (Langenbeck), 323 — disease of, authors on, 324 Palm, fatal case of verminous disease; 153 Palmer, T., subclavian murmur iu men, 119 Pancreas, digestion of albuminoid sub- stances by (Corvisarl), 19INDEX. 494. Panum, changes in the blood from inani- tion, 26 Paracentesiscapitis,successfulcase(Thomp. son), 94 Paraplegia of children, arg. nit. in (Bou- chut), 8-1 — patliology of (Clarke), 84 Paralysed iiuisclcs, effect of induced and cotistant current on (Neumann), 86 Paralysis, central (Salomon), 88 — case of, patliologv (Reynolds and Clarke), 96 — diphtheritic, nitrate of silver in (Raci- borski), 96 — from injury to nerve-trunks (Paget), 255 — and loss of speech in hysteria (Wilks), 68 — reflex, as result of gunshot wounds (Mitchell, Morehouse, and Keen), 211 Paresis, general, pathology of (Sankey), 101 — authors on, 103 Parker, case of death from arsenic-eating, 429 — hospital gangrene, cause of, 217 — do. treatment of, 222 Parker, W., on spermatorrhcea, 341 Parotid tumour, removal of (Verneuil), 325 Parsons, bronchitis of potters, 475 Pas and Grbnewegen, new form of cubehs, 436 Pasteur, researches of, as explaining hos- pital mortality (Wells), 194 Paterson, A, S., mania produced by sun- stroke, 72 Pauw, Mad., poisoning of (Tardieu and Roussin, Bernard, Hei)ert), 439 Peacock, T. B., cases of unusual slowness of the pulse, 125 Peacock, diseases of miners, 477 Pecholier, effects of ipecacuanha in disease, 447 — and St. Pierre, healthiness of verdigris manufacture, 475 Pelvimeter, Earle's, utility of (Murphy, Meadows), 386 Pelvis, the, in various races of men (Jou- lin), 356 — conditions of,impeding delivery(Barnes), 373 Pemphigus dependent on disease of nerves (Russell), 177 — syphilitic (Roger), 244 Penis, surgery of, authors on, 343 — treatment of balanitis (Burow), 342 Perinffium, laceration of, treatment (Ro- binson), 382 Peritoneal areolar tissue, inflammation of (Oppolzer), 151 Pettenkofer and Voit, relation of food and excretion, 25 Petroleum, asphyxia from (Weinberger), 452 Pharmacopoeia, British (authors on), 420 Pharynx, wounds of (Moore), 319 — foreign body in, laryngeal mirror (Czermak), 319 Phlebitis, facial (Blachez), 207 Phosphorus, rapid poisoning by (Tungel), 423 — disease of palate (Langenbeck), 320 — necrosis (Wahl,Wulff), 270-8 Phthisis, assimilation of fat in (Dobell), 143 — cure bv living in open air in California (Blake), 144 — developed by pleurisy (Beau), 142 — dietary in (Smith), 142 — influence of medicines upon (Cotton), 141 — tannin in (Woillez), 142 Physostlgma venenosuin. See Calabar bean. Pick, T. P., treatment of hospital gan- grene (St. George's), 220 Pirogoff's amputation (Hewson), 292 Pissin, bleeding from the ranine vein, 128 Pitch-furnace, vapour of, in bronchitis, &c. (Ireland), 433 Placenta prievia,on (Greenhalgh), 380 Pleurisy giving rise to phthisis (Bean), 142 Pleuritic effusion, drainage tube in (Kidd), 140 — thoracentesis in (Behier), 140 Pneuraogastric nerves, pulmonary lesions from section of (Roddaen), 17 — influence of, on heart, 7 — relation of, to respiration, 16 Pneumonia with delirium, musk and acetate of ammonia in (Delioux), 134 — epidemic in Iceland in 1863(Hjaltelin), 135 — pleuro-, epidemic in Mediterranean fleet (Bryson), 139 — report of the Vienna Hospital on, 1860-2, 137 Polypi, laryngeal, 327 — nasal, auiliors on, 325 — uterine (Sims, Hutchinson), 406 Polysarcia and its treatment (Smith, Rad- ciiffe, Down), 37-39 Pommerais, Dr. Couty de la, poisoning of Mad. Pauw by, 439 Pons Varolii, apoplexy of,recovery (MoUer), 88 — primary tubercidosis of (Stein), 96 Portal vein, functions of (Or6), 19 Porter, G H., radical cure of reducible hernia, 331495 INDEX. Post, use of bromine in erysipelas, hospital gangrene, and diplitheria, 217, 225 Potash, permanganate of, in iiospital gan- grene (Hinkle), 220 Potters, bronchitis of (Parsons), 4 75 Pouchet, production of ciliated animal- culae, 5 Powell, T., forceps in craniotomy, 385 Pregnancy after operative closure of os uteri (Lane), 361 — without intromission (Scanzoni,Mattel), 362, 459 — diagnosis from uterine tumours (Routh), 362 — protracted (Annan, Simpson), 363 — vomiting of (Braun), 363 — do. in eighth month of (Kidd), 364 — extra-uterine (Simpson, Ott), 366-7 — do. witli complications (Breslau, Schultze, Matthews, Day), 364-7 Presentations, abnormal (Christie, Simpson, Thomas), 378 Preyer, W., on amoeboid blood-corpus- cles, 1 Pribram, A., mortification after bites bv men, 206 Priestley, flexions and versions of uniiii- pregnated uterus, 393 — menorrhagia from morbid changes in the ovaries, 407 Printers in London, sanitary state of (Smith), 471 Probe, Nekton's (Hamilton), 209 Prosopalgia (v. Franque), 99 Prostate, diseases of, authors on, 345 Prurigo, treatment of (Duchesne-Duparc), 177 Pryer, W. C, successive epidemics of hos- pital gangrene, one constilutiotial, one local, 218 Psoriasis, non-syphilitic, on (Spender), 180 Public health, authors on, 466 Pulse, characters of, by sphygmograph (Marey, &c.), 7-11 — infantile, in health (Smith), 414 — cases of unusual slowness of (Peacock), 125 Purulent diathesis and septic infection, on (Wabl, v.), 40 Pustule, malignant (Mauzevin and Batul), 234-5 —• spontaneous (Devers), 183 — new treatment of (Mauzevin), 185 Pysemia, operative treatment of (Doutrclc- pont), 226 — sulphites in (Burggraeve), 226 — authors on, 227 Quinine and iron, citrate of, quinine in (Braithwaite), 446 Race, influence of, on results of operations (Chauffard), 193 Raciborski, nitrate of silver in diphtheritic paralysis, 96 Radclifl'e, C. B., case of acute myelitis, fatal, 83 — a fevv words concerning Bantingism, 38 Ramskill, J. S., dilatation of left ventricle, with difliculty of speech and subocci- pital pain, 120 — on epilepsy, 77 Ranke, chemical conditions of the fatigue of muscles, 23 Rectum, exploration and surgery of (van Buren), 339 — malformations of, authors on, 341 — stricture of, venereal (Bumstead, Gosselin), 235 — authors on, 341 Rees, 0., chloride of arsenic in diabetes, 169 Reflex action, influence of, on secretion (Bernard), 22 — case of control of (Ranke), 23 Refraction and accommodation, authors on, 307 Reid, A. G., case of ununited fracture of tibia, 281 — treatment of wound of large arterv, 259 Reid, J. W., delirium tremens treated by digitalis, 72 Renard, tendinous rheumatism treated by external use of sulphur, 59 Renzi, on the absorption of iodine, 422 — functions of nervous centres in fishes, reptiles, and birds, 28 Respiration, change produced in blood by (Stokes), 14 — interchange of gases in (Grehaut), 16 — relation of the vagi to the movements of (Rosenthal), 16 Respiratory murmur, cause of the (Boudet), 17 Retina, analysis of, by the stereoscope (Towne), 32 — peculiar alfection of (.' gray degenera- tion) (Nagel) 310 — disease of, authors on, 311 Reynolds, R., case of paralysis, patbologv, 96 Rheumatic fever, obscure forms of, 57 Rheumatism, acute, statistics of (Roth), 56 — tendinous, external use of sulphur in, 59 — treatment of (Law, Roberlon, Davies), 56 — and mental disorder (Sander), 107490 INDEX. Rhinoscopy, authors on, 325 Rhinoplasty, new mode of performing (Langenheck), 20-1 Ricci, H. R. de, allvaline and earthy suU phates in catalytic diseases, 191 Richardson, B. W., effects of nitrate of ainyl, 453 — mortality in Norwich Hospital under different treatments, 192 Ricinus communis, alkaloid in seeds of (Tuson), 437 Ritchie, cephalotripsy, at Vienna, by Braun, 387 Rohertoii, J., treatment of acute rheu- matism, 56 Robinson, laceration of perinseum, reco- covery, 382 Roddaert, R., pulmonary lesions from section of the pneumogastrics, 17 Roger, on the slight form of scarlatina and dropsy, 54 — hereditary syphilis, 244 Rogers, D. L., successful ligature of the art. innorainata, 264 Roncher, effect on water of steeping flax, 469 Rosenthal, relation of the vagi to move- ments of respiration,16 Rosentlial, M., influence of cold on sensory and motor nerves, 97 Roth, F. R., statistics of acute rheumatism, 55 Roussin, assimilation of isomorphous sub- stances, 27 Routh, diagnosis of pregnancy from tumours, 362 — on fibrous tumours of uterus, 394 Roux, trial of M. Armand, fur assault on (Tardieu), 456 Ruble, syphilis of larynx simulating phthisis, 243 Russell, J. B., analysis of 300 cases of typhus, 49 Russell, J., pemphigus dependent on disease of nerves, 177 Ryan, use of forceps in midwifery, 384 Sabine, T. T., treatment of subclavian aneurism, 261 Sadler, M. T., case of Cesarean section, 388 Salisbury, benefit of sanitary measures in, 189 Salter, H., chloroform in asthma, 133 — pot. iod. in do., 132 — on tracheal dysphagia, 144 Sander, on rheumatism and mental dis- order, 107 Sanitary measures in Salisburv, benefit of 189 Sankey, W. H. 0., pathology of general paresis, 101 Santonine simulating sugar in urine (Notta), 446 Sarokow, changes in muscle during action, 24 Siixinger, cases of retroversion of gravid uterus, 368 — primary cancer of fundus uteri, 400 Scabies, treatment of (Kalb), 179 Scanzoni, pregnancy without intromission, 362, 459 Scapula, excision of (Syme), 202 Scarlatina, condition of stomach and in- testines in (Fenvvick), 147 — after operations (Paget), 200 — do. (Harrinson, Wilks, May, Edmunds), 201 — slight, followed by dropsy, on the form of (Roger), 54 — treatment bv ammonia sesquicarb. (Down), 55 Schiff, functions of epiglottis, 27 Schmidt, A., osmosis of albumen, 2 — cause of change of colour of the blood, 2 — crystallization of blood, 3 Schniitzler and Rokitansky, persistence of ductus Botallii, 119 Schroff, effects of veratrum viride and album, 432 Schuh, 11 cases of resections of nerves, 99 Schulz, operations ten years after missed labour, 370 Scliidtze, B. S., tubo-uterine gestation,364 Schultze, 0., fermentation in impaired digestion, 22 Sciatica, clinical lecture on (Fuller), 59 Scurvy in St. Petersburg ( Hermann), 116 — blood-serum drawn from chest in (Kempff), 117 — increase of, at sea (Barnes), 478 Sea-sickness, on (Chapman), 150 Secretion, influence of reflex action on (Bernard), 22 Seegiien, influence of Glauber's salt on the metamorphosis of matter, 26 Septic infection and purulent diathesis (Wahl), 40 Septicemia, cases (Wahl), 231 — experiments on (Weber), 227 Serous membranes, textuial changes in inflammation of (Turner), 34 Sewell, coma removed by green tea, 97 Simon, congenital atresia of left half of double vagina, retention of menstrual fluid on one side, 390497 INDEX. Simpson, carcinoma of fundus uteri, 400 — case of extra-uterine pregnancy, 366 Simpson, A. R., case of protracted gesta- tion, 363 — case of doul)le uterus, 390 — induction of premature labour, 383 — treatment of prolapsus funis, 379 Sitns, on recto-vesical litliotomy, 349 Siras, M., on uterine polypi, 406 Skin, absorption by (Villemin), 18 — parasitic diseases of, so-called acute (Cliausset), 172 — do. nature of (Fox), 174 — do. authors on, 172 Skoda, insufficiency of valves of heart, 119 Skull, caries and necrosis of bones of (Hewitt), 297 — wounds of, cause of form of (Teevan), 296 Smell, affections of, in epilepsy (Jackson), 68 Smith, A., air of mines, 478 Smith, E., diet in diabetes, 168 — dietary in disease, emaciation, 36, 132 — do. phthisis, 142 — food of the labouring classes, 470 — sanitary state of printers in London, 472 — do. tailors in London, 471 — on obesity, 37 Smith, L., on the infantile pulse in health, 414 Smith, T. and H., new crystalloid from aconite, 450 Smoler, M., on some acute diseases, 36 Socquet and Chatin, perchloride of iron and ergot of rye in albuminuria, 166 Spanton, D., typhus and typhoid fever, urine in, 47 Spasm, facial, division of nerves in (v. Graefe), 82 — do. histrionic, cure by chloroform (Costes), 99 Speech, defects of, from cerebral lesions (Merkel, Jackson), 66 — loss of, and paralvsis in hysteria (Wilks), 68 Spence, J., tracheotomy in diphtheritic croup, 130 Spender, J. K., on non-syphilitic psoriasis, 180 Spermatonhoea, on (Parker), 341 Spinal cord, atrophic degeneration of (Axenfeld, Barwinkel), 86 — or brain, 75 cases of scrofulous disease of (Ogle), 96 — syphilitic disease of (Winge), 245 Spine, diseases of, authors on, 280 Spirometry, on (Beigel), 143 Spleen, pathological changes in (Billroth, Beer), 170 Spondylolisthesis, on,and premature labotir in (Barnes), 372 Stanford, R. L., bromine in hospital gan- grene, 224 Stein, J., tetanus, recovery, 78 — tubuculosis of pons Varolii, 96 Stellwag, K., on luminous eyes, 302 Stenocardia. See Angina pectoris. Stereoscope, analysis of retina by (Towne), 32 Sterility, authors on, 342 Stewart, G., case of syphilis of liver, 159. — traumatic tetanus, recovery, 80 Stewart, H. G., on hereditary insanity, 103 Stilling, B., cure of organic stricture of urethra, 345 Stimulants and narcotics, action of (Ans- tie), 417 Stirling, digitalis in cardiac disease, 128 Stokes, change produced in blood by oxy- gen, 14 Stone, recurrence after operation for (Mer- cier), 347 — treatment of, in Russia (H. Klein), 348 — authors on, 347, 350 Storch, O., cases of echinococcus in liver, 160 Storer, H.R., surgical treatment of amenor- rhoea, 392 Stricture, internal incision in (Stilling), 345 — organic, laminaria bougies in (CoUis), 346 — authors on, 347 Strychnia, case of poisoning by, fatal (Cas- per), 444-5 — poisoning, resume of (Lion), 444 Sturges, O., cases of Addison's disease, 172 Suffocation, case of suicide by means of baU of hay (Wossidlo), 458 Sugar in urine, santonine simulating (Notta), 446 Sulphites in septicaimia, 230 Suljihuric acid, purification of, from arsenic (Bussvand Bignet, Buchner, Blondlot), 428-9 Sulphuretted hydrogen injected into veins effects of (Weber), 228 Sun-stroke, mania from (Paterson), 72 Suppuration, authors on, 215-16 Supra-renal capsules, bronzing, with disease of (Sturges), 172 Surgery, military, authors on, 194 — operative, 194 — plastic, 204 — authors on, 193, 203-4-6 Surgical cases, medical treatment of, 203 Sutton, cases of obscure forms of rheu- matic fever, 57 :i24,98 INDEX. Sweat, hfcmorrhagic (v. Franque), 179 Swiss Alps, climate and spas of (Weber), 190 Sycosis, on (Ziemssen), 175 Syine, J., excision of scapula, 202 Sympatlietic nerve, state of, in ataxie loco- motrice (Duchenne), 85 Synechia, universal posterior, iridectomy in (Windsor), 307 Syphilis, constitutional, visceral lesions connected with (Lancereaux), 246 — hereditary (Roger), 244 — do. (Charrier), 64 — of larynx simulating phthisis (Riihie), 243 — of liver (Oppolzer), 157 — mercury in, authors on, 251 — transmission of, by vaccination (Bohn), 245 — social relations of (Marowski), 64 — authors on, 235-7-8, 242 — congenital, authors on, 244 — constitutional, authors on, 242-3-8 Syphilitic albuminuria, &c., pot. iod. in (Wade), 163 — caries and necrosis of sliull (Hewitt), 297 — disease of epididymis (Dron), 172 — disease of spinal cord (Winge), 245 — fever (Giintz), 242 — lesions of internal viscera (Lancereaux), 61 — do. (Jacksch), 65 — narrowing of trachea (Moissenet and Bourdon), 131 — pemphigus (Roger), 244 — tumours in muscles (Teevan), 254 SyphiUzation, report of committee upon, 248 Tailors in London, sanitarv state of (Smith), 471 Tape-worms, report on (Meissner), 152 Tardieu, on diseases produced by impru- dence, 465 — trial of Armand for assault on Roux, 456 Tardieu and Roussin, digitalin, as cause of Mad. Pauw's deatli, 439 Taylor, delivery after death, 460 — poisoning by tr. of aconite, 450 — fatal poisoning by external use of arsenic, 424 — poisoning by brandy (a;t. 7), 452 — do. corrosive subUmate, 431 — do. lin. camph. co., 454 — do. turpetli mineral, 432 Tea, green, coma removed by, 4 cases (Sewell), 97 Teevan, W. F., inquiries into certain wounds of skull, 296 Teevan, W. F., tumour» in voluntary mus- cles, 254 Teissier, turpentine in nervous headache, 97 Temperature, measurements of, in surgical cases (Ileineke), 203 Teudo Acliillis, resection of an inch of, and suture (Webster), 254 Tendons and muscles, authors on, 255 Testis, diseases of, authors on, 343 Tetanus, pathology of (L. Clarke, II. Demme), 81, 232 — from bathing, recovery (Stein), 78 — following operation for cancer of cervix uteri (Keiller), 391 — curare in (Demme), 238 — ice to spine in hysterical (Howard), 82 — recovery after ice to spine (Edmunds), 79 — do. (Falconer, Adams), 80 — nicotine unsuccessful in (Ogle), 79 — rheumatic, recovery after use of tobacco (Lange), 79 — traumatic, recovery after use of nicotine (Tyrrell), 80 — do. (Stewart), 80 — in the tropics (Bernouilli), 232 — autliors on, 233 Thiry, L., influence of gaseous contents of blood upon action of heart, 7 Thomas, treatment of prolapsus funis, 379 Thompson, T. Y., successful case of paracen- tesis capitis, 94 Thomson, W., discharge in hospital gan- grene, 217 — treatment of do., 222 Thoracentesis in pleuritic efltusion (Behier), 140 Thndichum, J. L., new mode of treating diseases of the civity of the nose, 131 Thvroid gland, disease of, authors on, 325 Tichborne, composition of liquor bismuthi, 430 Tinea and alopecia, contagion in (Hillier), 176 Tobacco, amaurosis from (?) (Hutchinson), 312 Tongue, the, in malarious disease, 60 — hard tumour of, disappearing under galium aperin. (Bulley), 147 — affections of, authors on, 319 — and muscles of speech, &c., atrophy of (Barker), 110 Tonsils, disease of, authors on, 325 Towne, analysis of retina by the stereo- scope, 32 Townley, insanity of, 465 Trachea, sypliilitic narrowing of (Moissenet and Bourdon), 131499 INDEX, Trachea and bronchi, disease of (Gibb), 128 — and larynx, disease of, authors on, 327 Tracheotomy in croup or diphtheria, 6 cases (Buchanan), 130 — in diphtheritic croup (Spence), 130 — in syphilitic narrowing of trachea (Moissenet), 131 Transfusion (Panum), 268 — apparatus for (Hewitt), 389 — immediate (Aveling), 389 Trask, J. B., trisnitrate of bismuth in diaiThoea, 150 Trichina disease (Meissner), 191 Tripier, ventilating, lighting, and warming theatres, 468 Trousseau on neuralgias, 98 Tuberculosis, 75 cases of brain and cord (Ogle), 96 — of corpora quadr. (Henoch and Steflfen), 89 — mediastinal (Bouchut), 415 — primary, of pons Varolii (Stein), 96 Tuckwell, H. M., effusions of blood in neighbourhood of uterus, 402 Tumours of bone, authors on, 278 — congenital innocent (Holmes), 268 — fibrous, of uterus (Routh, Hutchinson, Duncan, Brown), 394 — malignant, authors on, 276 — under moles (Paget), 271 — vascular, authors on, 268 — in voluntary muscles (Teevan), 254 — share of blood-vessels in formation of (Weber), 12 — on the removal of skin in excision of (Fergusson), 272 — authors on, 272 Tiingel, rapid poisoning, phosphorus, 423 Turner, A. P., cinchonia in 100 cases of in- termittent fever, 60 Turner, W., texlural changes in inflamma- tion of serous membranes, 34 Turning, delivery by (Hicks, Hewitt), 383 Turpeth mineral, poisoning by (Taylor), 432 Tuson, alkaloid in castor-oil seeds, 437 Typhus and typhoid. See Fever. Tyrrell, tetanus from wound of nose, reco- very after tobacco, 80 Uraemia, on (Munk), 165 Uranoplasty, authors on, 324 Urea,paralysing the reflex function (Ranke), 23 Urethra, diseases of, authors on, 347 Urinary organs, pathology of (Kussmaul), 164 Urine, colouring matter of, oxaluria, &c. (Harley), 160 Urine in intermittent fever (Nicholson), 59 Uterus, carcinoma of (Simpson, Hewitt, Saxinger, Barnes), 400 — do. recovery from (Habit), 401 — eflTusions of blood in neighbourhood of 402 — filu'ous tumours of (Routh,Hutchinson, Duncan, Brown), 394 — polypus of (Sims, Hutchinson), 406 — gravid, anteversion of (Hiiter), 368 — do., retroversion of (Saxinger, Atthill), 3G8-9 ■— do., flexion of, as cause of abortion (Hiiter), 369 — do., flexions and versions of, 393 — case of double (Simpson, Simon), 390 — do., with three ovaries (Grohe), 390 — diseases of cervix (Martyn, Warren, Heneike, Keiller), 391 — rupture of, gastrotomy, successful (Cricb- ton), 381 — variety in form of, with pregnancy (Birnbaum), 376 Vaccination, reports on, 466 Vagina, case of double (Cappie), 390 — congenital atresia of left half, double uterus, partial retention of menstrual fluid (Simon), 390 Valentin, development of heat by nervous action, 32 Varix, authors on, 268 Veale, N., excision of indurated chancre, 239 Vegetable life, effect of light on (Jodin, Boussingault), 5 Veins, passage of air into, without ill effect (Verneuil), 326 — authors on, 267 Veratrum viride, comparison with v. album (Schrofl"), 432 — physiological effects of (Watson), 432 Venereal disease. See Syphilis and Go- norrhcea. Verdigris manufacture, innocuousness of (Pecholier and St. Pierre), 475 Ventilation by current of pulverized water (Morin), 468 — lighting, and warming of theatres (Tripier), 468 Verneuil, A., removal of a parotid tumour, 325 Vienna Hospital, gastro-intestinal catarrh (1860-2), 149 — report of (1860-2), 42,134, 137 Villemin, absorption by the skin, 18 Vinegar, adulterations of, in Freace (Che- vallier), 470 Vitreous humour, affections of, authors on, 310500 INDEX. Vogl, analysis of Ipomoca turbethura, 443 Vulpian, effects of digitaline upon the heart, 441 Vulva, excision in hypertrophy of (Can- ton), 343 Wade, diuretics in renal dropsy, 163 —pot. iod. in sypliilitic albuminuria, 163 Wahl, E. von, clinical history of septic infection, 231 — on the spread of gangrene, 231 — on phosphorus necrosis, 276 — purulent diathesis and septic infection, 40 Wales, P. S., spotted fever in Rhode Is- land, 1863, 43 Walker, T. J., globe condenser in laryn- goscopy, 130 Warlomoiit, free use of sulphate of copper in external ophthalmiiB, 301 Warren, J., cervix uteri projecting exter- nally, excision, 391 Warren J. M., neuralgia from injury of nerves, 256 ■ Water, pulverized current producing ozone, &c. (Morin), 468 — zinc vessels for (Fonssagrives), 469 — effects of steeping flax in, 469 Waters, A. T. H., hypertrophy, of left breast in emphysema, 120 — thoracic aneurisms and thoracic tu- mours, 123 Watson, J., effects of veratrum viride, 432 Weber, on the trophic nerves, and their in- fluence on inflammation, 33 Weber, C. 0., methods of amputation near ankle-joint, 294 Weber, H., spas and climate of the Swiss Alps, 190 Weber, O., and Urfey, experiments on sep- ticiemia, 227 Weber, share of the blood-vessels in new formations, 12 Webster, W., resection of one inch of tendo Achillis and suture, 254 Wedl, contributions to the pathology of the blood-vessels, 123 Weeks, G. R., bromine in hospital gan- grene, 224 Weinl)erger, R., asphyxia from petro- leum, 452 Wells, T. S., causes of excessive mortality after operations, 194 Whitley, malarious disease in marshv dis- tricts, 467 — effects of working in lead, 475 — do. mercury, 476 Whittle, E., case of hydrophobia, 71 Wilks, S., atrophy of brain, 109 — loss of speech and paralysis in hysteri- cal women, 68 Williams, S. W. 0., refusal of food by the insane, 110 Wilson, E.,.on eczema, 181 Winckel, on cephalotripsy, 387 Windsor, J., inflammation of epiglottis, 130 Windsor, T., iridectomy for artificial pupil, 307 Winge, syphilitic disease of spinal cord, 245 M'oillez, tannin in phthisis, 142 Women, diseases of, authors on, 354 Worms (ascaris lurabr.), fatal case of (Palm), 153 Wounds,diphtheritic or pellicular (Hutchin- son), 207 — gunshot, 209-215 — of nerves, neuralgia from (Warren), 256 — do. paralysis from (Paget), 255 — pretended (in case of Roux), 456 — authors on, 206-8 Wulff, phosphorus necrosis, 278 Zechmeister, abscess from attempted abor- tion, a twig left in utero, 460 Zehender, W., form of extraction knives, 309 Ziemssen, on sycosis, 175 Zinc, chloride of, in epithelial cancer (Fleming), 276 J. T.. *DI,ARD, PRINTER, BABTBOLOMKW CLOSE.*