METHOD OF EXAMINATIOiST, 11 tlie brain. The degree of congestion and the existence of serum, pus, pr blood beneath or in tlie pia mater, are to be ascertained at this time, before the brain is removed. The pia mater in old persons loses its transparency and becomes thick and white; this change is most marked along the longitudinal fissure and the large vessels. It is a simple senile change, but is frequently mistaken for an inflammatory lesion. Marked and general thickening of the pia mater, however, is produced by chronic inflammation. Along the longitudinal flssure, and sometimes at a distance from it, we find little whitish, wart-like bodies. These are the pacchionian bodies, which are found normally in adult life. The amount of serum beneath the pia mater varies. A con- siderable amount, especially in cachectic persons, may exist without brain disease. Clear serum lifting iip the pia mater and separating the convolutions of the brain may be simply dropsical or due to chronic meningitis. Turbid and purulent serum beneath and in the pia mater are produced by acute meningitis. The Brain.—After examining the convex surface of the brain, the anterior lobes of the cerebrum are to be pulled gently backward, the cranial nerves and the tentorium divided, the medulla oblongata cut across as low down as possible, and the brain thus removed from the cranium. The adult brain weighs, in the male, from 46 to 53 oz.; in the female, from 41 to 47 oz. Besides the lobes and fissures of the brain, it is important to notice the convolutions and sulci, in order to note the exact situation of any lesion. The brain is first laid on its convex surface, and the anterior, middle, and posterior cerebral arteries, the basilar, and the car- otids examined for emboli, thrombi, and atheroma. Extravasa- tions of blood, new growths, and inflammatory lesions are also to be looked for. The brain is then turned over on its base. An incision is made through the pia mater, over the convex surface of the cerebrum ; this membrane is stripped up, and its adherence to the brain, its thickness and general appearance are noticed. The two halves of the cerebrum are then to be gently separated until the superior surface of the corpus callosum is