116 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. ry ; or tliey may reacli a large size, press on and erode the right side of the sternum and adjoining ribs, project under tlie skin, and even rupture externally. The transverse portion of the arch may be dilated in a fusi- form shape ; or there may be sacculated aneurisms at any point in its wall. The sacculated aneurisms usually reach a consider- able size. They press on the sternum and ribs in front, or on the oesophagus, trachea, and bronchi behind. The large arte- ries given off from the arch may be occluded. They cause death by pressure on the air-passages, the oesophagus, and the vena cava; or may rupture externally, or into the oesophagus, tra- chea, bronchi, or pleuritic cavities. On the thoracic aorta vre find both diffused and circumscrib- ed dilatations. They may reach a large size ; compress the as- cending vena cava, the heart, oesophagus, bronchi, and lungs ; may erode the ribs, destroy the vertebrte, and open into the spinal canal. They may rupture externally, or into the bron- chi, oesophagus, or pleural cavities. On the abdominal aorta we usually find sacculated aneurisms. If they are situated high up, they may project into the pleural cavities ; if lower down, into the abdomen. They compress and displace the viscera, vessels, and nerves, and erode the vertebrre. They may rupture behind the peritoneum, in the peritoneal cavity, the pleural cavities, the inferior vena cava, the lungs, the colon, the pelves of the kidneys, the posterior mediasti- num. The Coronary Arteries may be dilated througliout, or may be the seat of small sacculated aneurisms. These may rupture into the pericardium, or may cause rupture of the heart-wall. TliG Pulmonary Arteries are rarely the seat of aneurisms. Diffuse and circumscribed dilatations, however, somethnes oc- cur on the main trunk and on the two principal branches of the artery. They usually do not reach a large size, but cause death by rupture. General dilatation of all the branches of the piilmonary artery is more connnon. It is found in connection with stenosis of the mitral valves, and with compression or in- duration of tlie lung tissue.