THE INTESTINES. 155 Rupture of the intestines is produced by severe contusions. It is noticeable that contusions sufficiently severe to produce large ruptures of the intestines may not leave any bruises or marks on the external surface of the body, even when the pa- tient lives for several days after the receijjt of the injury. Perforation of the intestines will be considered under the head of ulcers. INFLAMMATION". The Rectum.—Catarrhal inflammation of the rectum is acute or chronic. In acute inflammation, we find the intestine congested, swol- len, covered with a thin layer of mucus, pus, and epithelium ; the epithelium in places destroyed so as to form superficial ulcers; the solitary glands enlarged. In chronic inflamma- tion, the mucous membrane is congested, or anaemic, or mottled with black patches. There are ulcers, either superficial or deep, and even perforating, so as to form fistulous openings into the surrounding tissues. Other parts of the mucous mem- brane hypertrophy, either around a solitary follicle, or around a group of straight follicles, or by cell-growth beneath the mucous membrane, and project in the form of polypi. In other cases, the mucous membrane is uniformly thickened. The mus- cular coat is relaxed and thinned, or, more frequently, hyper- trophied. This hypertrophy is frequently associated with thickening of the connective tissue around the rectum, and may cause fatal strictures. Croupous inflammation of the rectum occurs with acute dysentery and after the injection of irritating substances. The mucous membrane and submucous tissue are congested, swol- len, and infiltrated with serum. Its surface is covered Avith blood, epithelium, mucus, and a thin, brownish, membranous layer, composed of epithelium mixed with coagulated fibrine. This false membrane may be in patches, or may form a com- plete cast of the rectum. In more severe cases, the entire thickness of the mucous membrane is infiltrated with fibrine, so that large patches become gangrenous and are cast ofi:'.