POST-MORTEM EXAMINATION'S. 8 a severe contusion, as it exists during life, Ave see that the injury at first leaves no mark, or only a general redness. After a short time, the injured part is swollen- and of a red color. This color is succeeded by a black and blue, and this again gra- dually fades out into a yellow. All these changes are due to an escape of blood from the vessels, and to subsequent changes in its coloring matter. If, therefore, we cut into such an ecchy- mosis after death, we shall find extravasated blood, or the color- ing matter of the blood in the form of granular pigment in the tissues. Post-mortem discolorations, on the other hand, al- though their external appearance may resemble that of ante- mortem eccliymosis, are not formed by an extravasation of blood, but by a circumscribed congestion of the vessels, or by an escape of blood-stained serum. If we cut into such dis- colorations, therefore, we find no blood oiitside of the vessels. An abrasion of the skin, by wdiicli the epidermis has been rubbed oft', presents the same appearance whether produced be- fore or after death. In either case, the denuded cutis becomes hard, dry, and parchment-like. Blows on the skin of a body which has not been dead for more than two hours may produce true eccliymosis, with ex- travasation of blood, such as can hardly be distinguished from those formed during life. Wounds.—We should notice the situation, extent, and direc- tion of a wound ; the condition of its edges and of the sur- rounding tissues. If it is a deep penetrating wound, a probe or director should be passed into it before it is laid open. If we find the edges of a wound inflamed and suppurating, or commencing to cicatrize, it must have been inflicted some time before death. If a wound has been inflicted a short time before death, its edges are everted; there is extravasation of blood into the surrounding tissues, the vessels contain coagula, or all these signs may be absent. Tlie chief characters of a wound inflicted after death are absence of bleeding, non- retraction of the edges of the wound, and no extravasation of blood. A wound inflicted within two hours after death resem- l)les more closely one inflicted during life. In general, ujiless a wound is old enough for its edges to present inflammatory