THE IIEAKT. 99 (3.) The vessels are transposed, tlie pulmonary artery arises from the left, the aorta from the right ventricle; the pulmonary veins empty into the left, the vente cav£e into the right auricle; or the veins also may be transposed. The septa are defective. TV. The aorta and pulmonary artery are normal, but the cardiac septa are defective. (1.) The foramen ovale remains partly open. This condition may continue through life without giving any trouble. (2.) The ductus arteriosus may remain open for many years ; this, also, causes no disturbance. (3.) There is a small or large opening in the ventricular septum. This may give rise to no symptoms unless disease of the heart or lungs be superadded. y. Either of the auriculo-ventricular orifices may be entirely closed. The foramen ovale remains open, and the ventricular septum is defective. YI. The valves of the different orifices of the heart may be absent or defective. The arteries or the ventricles are usually defective at the same time. The aortic and pulmonary valves may consist of two large or four small leaves, instead of the usual three. Generally speaking, the existence of openings between the- two auricles or the two ventricles, admitting some admixture of venous and arterial blood, produces no change in the circu- lation. If, however, the passage of the current of venous blood into the right heart is in any way interfered with, the conse- quences are very serious. Cyanosis is produced, the skin is of a bluish color, the small veins and capillaries are dilated, exu- dation of serum and hypertrophy of connective tissue takes place, especially in the fingers and toes. Besides the malformations already mentioned, we may find : Entire absence of the heart. Abnormal septa and chordae tendinese in the heart cavities- Abnormal shapes of the heart. Abnormal positions of the heart. (a.) There is a smaller or larger defect in the walls of the thorax, so that the heart projects on the outside of the chest; the pericardium is usually absent.