313 TYPHOID FEVER. granular degeneration of the individual cells, or by gangrene of a large part of a follicle. In either case, the degenerated portion is eliminated into the intestine, and leaves an ulcer, v^ith its edges and floor infiltrated with cells. After this, the cell growth goes on, and the ulcer enlarges, or the cells are replaced gradually by connective tissue, and cicatrization follows. The lesions we have described are found most frequently and most developed in the lower part of the ileum. They are not always, however, confined to this situation. Enlarged and ul- cerated follicles may be found over the entire length of the ileum, and even in the jejunum. They may also extend down- ward, and be found in the colon, even as far down as the rec- tum. The same changes may also take place in the appendix vermiformis. Besides the regular typhoid lesions of the intestines which have been described, we occasionally meet with others of a more accidental character. Gangrene of the intestinal wall sometimes occurs. It most frequently involves a portion of the wall corresponding to an ulcer, but may also afi:ect other portions where no ulcer exists. The process may terminate in perforation or in healing. Diphtheritic Inflammation may attack the mucous mem- brane of either the large or small intestine. The mucous mem- brane between the typhoid ulcers is covered and infiltrated with croupous exudation. Peritonitis of a mild type is a frequent accompaniment of the intestinal lesions. It appears to have but little influence on the course of the disease. Severe peritonitis is usually due to perforation, less frequently to ulcers which reach the serous coat, but do not perforate. When there is infiltration of the serous coat with the typhoid new growth, the peritonitis may be accompanied by a produc- tion of little gray nodules of the same character throughout the peritoneum. Infarctions of the spleen, inflammation of the ovaries, and perforation of the gall-bladder are sometimes the cause of peri- tonitis. Ho&morrhage from the intestines is merely due to the inflam-