171 THE LIVER. CIIAKGES IN SIZE AND POSITION. Changes in tlie size and form of tlie liver are frequent. The congenital malformations remain dm'ing life, and the liver is found quadrangular, or with abnormal fissures and lobes, or with abnormal size and shape of the lobes. The left lobe espe- cially varies very much in size. In females we find changes in the shape of the liver produced by tight lacing. By the narrowing of the base of the thorax, the organ is compressed from side to side, and its convex surface is pressed against the ribs. In consequence of this, there are found ridges and furrows on its convex surface. In consequence also of the circular constriction, a part of the right, and usually of tlie left, lobe also becomes separated by a depression. Over this depressed and thinned portion of the liver, the capsule is thick and opaque. In extreme cases, the depressing and thin- ning reach such an extent that there is only a loose, ligament- ous connection between the separated portion and the liver. New growths, liydatic cysts, and abscesses often produce a marked increase in the size of the liver. Fatty and waxy degeneration increase the size of the liver. Cirrhosis sometimes increases the size of the liver, but more commonly diminishes it, and produces lobulation. Syphilitic hepatitis, obstruction of branches of the portal vein, and partial inflammations and cicatrizations, also produce lobulation of the liver. Changes in the position of the liver are produced by altera- tions in its size, by pressure downward from the thoracic cavity, and upward from the abdomen, by the constriction of tight lac- ing, by tumors or circumscribed serous exudation between the liver and diaphragm, by curvature of the spine. "When the liver or lower portion of the liver is constricted b}' tight lacing, the axis of the organ falls downward, and the edge of the right lobe protrudes far below the margin of the ribs. If there is at the same time a deep depression in the right lobe, from the same cause, and the intestines lie in this groove, it may seem as if there was a tumor, separated from the liver, in the right iliac region. "When the upper third of the liver is com-