THE HEART. 105 Tlie muscular fibres contained a finely granular substance collected around the nuclei, they were broken into quadrangular fragments. Abscesses of the heart-wall may be due to embolism or to un- known causes. Those due to embolism are multiple, scattered over the surface of both ventricles, and have the ordinary cha- racteristics of pysemic abscesses. Those due to other causes are usually single, situated in the wall of the left ventricle, or in the septum, and may be as large as a Avalnut. The abscess contains pus and broken-down mus- cular fibres. The pus may become thickened, cheesy, and inclosed in a fibrous capsule. More frequently the abscess opens into the pericardium or into the heart-cavity. If it opens into a heart-cavity, the blood enters and becomes mixed with the contents of the abscess, and a very favorable condition is afforded for the production of emboli in difi'erent parts of the body. The blood may finally rupture into the pericardial cavity, and cause death. If the abscess is in the interventricular septum, it may establish an opening between the two ventricles, or it may extend upward and form a diffused abscess in the connective tissue at the base of the heart. Change of the muscular substance of the heart into fibrous tissue is sometimes found. It usually occurs in the left ventricle, and in connection with endocarditis. We find a circumscribed portion of the heart-wall converted into fibrous tissue of some thickness, or into a thin membrane. It seems natural to ascribe such a condition to chronic inflammation a;oing on in the heart- wall. These cicatricial spots may lead to the formation of aneurisms of the heart, or to general dilatation. THE ENDOCAKDIUM. The endocardium resembles the entire coat of a blood-A'essel spread out over the inner surface of the heart. It consists of several layers. On its inner surface is a layer of pavement en- dothelium. The cells are placed on a thick lamella, formed of anastomosing elastic fibres ; beneath this is a layer of loose elas- tic fibres mixed with a little connective tissue and some smooth