16 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. surface of the small intestines, bnt may be rolled up and dis- placed in a variety of positions, or may be adherent at some point. It is convenient at this stage of the examination to look over the peritoneal cavity for serum, or inflammatory lesions, and to notice the existence of invagination, incarceration, or hernias of the intestines. If the existence of air or gas in the pleural cavities is sus- pected, the abdominal cavity should be filled with water and the diaphragm punctured below the level of the fluid. If any air be present, it will escape in bubbles through the water. The Thorax.—We now leave the abdominal viscera in place, and proceed to the examination of the thorax. With a costatome, or a strong knife, the costal cartilages are divided close to the ribs, the clavicles are disarticulated from the sternum, and the latter removed, taking care not to wound the large veins. We first examine the position of the heart and lungs. The Hearty covered with the pericardium, extends vertically from the second intercostal space to the sixth cartilage, and transversely from a little within the left nipple to about half an inch to the right of the sternum. The apex of the lieart is opposite to the fifth intercostal space, about 3^ inches from the middle of the sternum. From the fifth intercostal space to the upper edge of the fourth cartilage, the heart is covered by the lungs. The portion of the heart uncovered by tlie lungs is of an irregularly triangular shape. The vertical side of the tri- angle is 2 inches, the horizontal 2|, and the oblique 3 inches in length. The area of tlie heart which is found uncovered will vary very much according to the degree in which the lungs collapse after death. Any disease which diminishes the size of the lungs, or any pleuritic adhesions Avliich retract or bind down the lungs, may increase the area of exposed heart. On the other hand, emphysema, pneumonia, or any disease which increases the size of, or retains the air in, the lungs, may dimin- ish the area of ex'posed heart. The pericardium is now opened by a vertical incision on its anterior surface. The existence of serous, fibrinous, or purulent exudation, and of adhesions, arc