POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 56 ways. The arteries may be occluded by emboli or thrombi, the capillaries by emboli, the veins and sinuses by thrombi. Or, the arteries and capillaries may be the seat of atheroma and fatty degeneration. Emboli are usually portions of 11 brine detached from the aorta or left heart, or from the pulmonary veins, or, rarely, in carcinoma of the lungs, ]3ortions of the new growth may be swept by the current of blood from the pulmonary veins. Sometimes, however, we can find nothing in the heart or vessels to account for the origin of the embolus. Thrombosis of the arteries is produced by atheroma of their walls, by dilatation or fatty degeneration of the heart, and by certain conditions of the blood occurring in ill-nourished and cachectic persons. All these conditions are most likely to occur in old age. Thrombosis of the veins and sinuses is caused by inflamma- tion of the dura mater, cranial bones, and pericranium, or by unknow^n changes in the quality of the blood. Fatty and calcific degeneration may affect the walls of a group of capillaries to such a degree as to interfere with the nutrition of portions of the brain. Tliis condition, however, must not be confounded with the fatty degeneration which affects the capillaries as a result of softening of the brain. These difterent conditions of obstruction of the circulation cause various lesions in the brain. 1. If the circulation is entirely cut off b}' the occlusion of a vessel of some size, or by occlusion or fatty degeneration of a group of capillaries, a portion of the brain tissue is found to be unchanged in color, but of soft or even fluid consistence. This alteration aflects cii'cumscribed portions, usually of the white substance of the hemispheres. These spots may be of all sizes, even the entire half of the cerebrum may be softened after ligature of one carotid. Tlie softened tissue is composed of de- generated nerve fibres, large globules of myeline, compound granular corpuscles, corpora aniylacea, concretions of lime, fatty ganglion cells, and lymphoid cells in variable number. The vessels are empty, normal, or fatty and broken into frag- ments.