358 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. III. Lipoma.—Fatty tumors. This name is given to tumors composed of adipose tissue ; tliat is, of a stroma of connective tissue containing fet-cells. These tumors are of irregular shape, always lobulated, soft, movable, and may attain a great size. They may undergo calcification, ossification, may soften so as to form oil-cysts, and may become the seat of chronic inflam- mation and suppuration. The most important combination of the lipomata is with the myxomata. The lipomata may be single or multiple. They occur most frequently in adults, but are found in all ages and congenitally. They are sometimes hereditary. They are purely local, benign tumors. They arise in preexisting adipose tissue. They are found very frequently in the subcutaneous adipose tissue in all parts of the body; between the muscles; beneath the serous mem- branes, especially the peritoneum; beneath the synovial mem- branes, protruding into the cavities of the joints ; beneath the i^ucous membrane of the mouth, trachea, bronchi, stomach, in- testines ; in the female mamma ; in the kidneys; in the pia ma- ter ; and in the scrotum and labia. These tumors, when grow- ing beneath the skin, or the synovial, mucoxis, and serous mem- branes, may assume a polypoid form with a narrow pedicle. This pedicle may sometimes atrophy and leave the tumors free in the peritoneal or joint cavities. TV. Chondroma.—-Cartilaginous tumors. These tumors are composed of cartilage. The cartilage-cells may resemble those of normal cartilage, or may be deformed. The basement substance is hyaline, fibrous, mucous, or calcified. The tumors are inclosed in a fibrous capsule, lobulated, and divided up by bands of fibrous tissue. We may distinguish two varieties : The Ecchondroses and the Enchondromata. The ecchon- droses gi*ow from the permanent cartilages of the ribs, the synchondroses, the inter-vertebral cartilages, and the cartihiges of the larynx and trachea. They only reach a small size, and have but little importance. 1