TYPHOID FEVER. 309 the vessels in some way impairs tlie nutrition of their walls, so that when they are again subjected to the ordinary blood-pres- sure the walls rupture. An embolus produces the same condition of affairs. A set of vessels are at first emptied of blood, and the nutrition of their walls thus impaired. After a time, these vessels are filled up from the veins, their abnormal walls can no longer resist the blood-pressure, and haemorrhage takes place. Cohnheim also asserts that when an abscess is formed by an embolus, the embolus is not lodged in a terminal artery, and produces no infarction. The embolus merely excites a suppu- rative inflammation by its pressure as an irritating body. After an hsemorrhagic infarction is formed, the subsequent changes in it are of a degenerative character. The blood loses its coloring matter, and breaks down into a mass of granules, forming a dry, yellow, wedge-shaped mass. It may remain in this condition, gradually diminishing in size. Or, it may soften, and break down into a puriform fluid. Or, it may be surrounded by a zone of inflammation, or of gangrene. Emboli from the left heart iTSually become fixed in the ar- teries and capillaries of the aortic system ; emboli of the right heart, or portions of thrombi from veins, in the capillaries of the lungs ; emboli from the portal system, in the capillaries of the liver. Not infrequently, however, we find infarctions of about the same date, and referable to a venous thrombus in both the pulmonary and aortic systems. This may take place in two ways. Emboli may be so small as to pass through the pulmonary circulation, and become fixed elsewhere; or, they lodge in the lungs, produce infarctions there, secondary throm- bi are formed in the pulmonary veins, and from these, emboli are carried into the left heart and aortic circulation. TYPHOID FEVER. The lesions of typhoid fever are well marked and constant. They may be conveniently divided into two classes. (1.) Those which are characteristic of the disease. To this