224: POST-MOETEM EXAMINATIONS. mucous tissue, or projecting inward in a polypoid form. The tumors are from the size of a pea to that of a pigeon's egg. They are composed of a fibrous stroma and of glandular follicles, resembling those of the prostate. They seem to be detached outgrowths from the prostate. Enchondroma.—A somewhat doubtful case of diffuse infiltra- tion of the entire wall of the bladder with cartilage is described by Ordonez. Tubercles of the bladder are sometimes foimd in connection with tubercles of the testes, prostate, vesiculse seminales, and kidneys. They are only found in the male. There are at first gray granulations in the superficial layers of the mucous mem- brane. These soften and form ulcers, of which the walls are infiltrated with new granulations. In this way large ulcers with cheesy floors and edges are formed. Cysts.—Paget mentions a case of a dermoid cyst in the wall of the bladder. Sometimes small serous cysts are found in the mucous membrane. Ca/rcinoma of the bladder is most frequently secondary to the same growth in neisihboring orsraus. As a primary growth it occurs ; (1.) As a diffuse sciiThous infiltration of the entire wall of the bladder, usually with ulcerations of its inner surface. (2.) As a circumscribed nodule which grows inward and out- ward, ulcerating on its inner surface, and sometimes producing perforations. (3.) As villous or epithelial cancer. The tumor grows from one or more points of the inner surface of the bladder. It is formed of tubular follicles, lined with cylindrical epithelium, and on its inner free surface of tufts covered with cylijulrical epithelium. The new growth may involve the entire thickness of the wall of the bladder. (4.) As my0-carcinoma. Yirchow describes a tumor of this kind situated at the trigonuni, and composed of fibrous and smooth muscular tissues, forming cavities filled with epithelial cells. I have seen one such case, in which there were two small tumors at the neck of the bladder. They were composed of a