THE UTERUS, 245 era of the uterus in the form of little nodules. As they in- crease in size, they separate themselves from the uterine wall and remain attached only by a narrow pedicle, or by a little connective tissue. If they are situated on the sides of the ute- rus, they may work their way between the folds of the broad ligament until they are at some distance from their point of origin. Some authors mention cases in which the tumors be- came entirely detached from the uterus and were free in the abdominal cavity. In some cases, the tumors excite inflammation of the adjacent peritoneum, leading to the formation of adhesions or of collec- tions of pus. In other cases, the tumor reaches a large size, but remains firmly attached to the uterus. This organ is then drawn up- ward, the cervix and vagina are elongated and narrowed. The traction may be so great that the body of the uterus is entirely separated from the cervix. The bladder may also be drawn upward, producing incontinence of urine and cystitis. This form of myoma is usually hard and dense, the fibrous tissue more abundant than the muscular. Calcification fre- quently takes place. The submucous m3'omata grow from the inner muscular lay- ers of the uterine wall. They commence as rounded nodules which lift up the mucous membrane. Their usual position is the fundus uteri, sometimes the anterior or posterior wall, rarely tlie lateral portions. In the cervix they are very seldom found. As the tumors increase in size, they project into the uterine cavity. They then remain continuous with the uterine wall, over a large area, or are attached by a large or small pedicle. They are w^ell supplied with vessels. The uterus dilates with the growth of the tumor, and its walls are also thickened. The tumor may reach such a size as to entirely fill the cavity of the dilated uterus and project through the cervix into the vagina. The submucous myomata are usually single, although there may be at the same time subserous and intra-parietal tumors. These myomata are usually soft, of whitish or reddish color,