POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 188 ward, and from before backward, traversed its interior, and was lodged in the posterior tliickened wall of the vessel. The me- senteric vein at this point was filled with a grayish thrombus, which was continued into the portal vein and its hepatic branches, and was partly firm and partly broken down. There Avas a spot on the posterior wall of the stomach, near the pylorus, which was considered to be the point of exit of the fish-bone. To this case I am able to add a second observed in Bellevue Hospital in 1867, reported by Dr. JancAvay, and examined also by myself. A man, aged forty-seven, about four weeks before his death was exposed to cold and wet. He was attacked with pain in the right side and cough, with the physical signs of pleurisy on the right side. A diarrhcEa set in; the man sank into a typhoid condition; the abdomen became tympanitic ; there was tenderness over the right iliac fossa; the urine con- tained albumen and granular casts. Autopsy.—The brain and heart were normal. The left lung was bound down by old adhesions ; in the right pleural cavity was a small amount of serum. The abdomen contained purulent serum, and the viscera were coated with recent fibrinous exudation. The stomach and in- testines were normal. The spleen weighed nine ounces. The kidneys weighed twelve ounces, and were the seat of advanced chronic diffuse nephritis. The liver weighed six and a half pounds. There were nume- rous small abscesses in the right lobe; two abscesses in the left lobe. The left division of the portal vein Avas filled with a firm red and white clot, over an inch long; the right division of the vein was lined with a firm thrombus ; its walls were thickened. In this part of the vein, and in its hepatic branches, was a good deal of puriform fluid. There was a fish-bone, two inches long, half in the mesen-- teric and half in the portal vein. The centre of this bone was covered by a thrombus. The specimen is preserved in the museum of Bellevue Hos- pital, In young infants, the ligation of the umbilical vein, instead