255 THE OVARIES. cyst-cavity is filled witli a mass of tufts, looking like a cauli- flower. Strictly speaking, such growth should be classed with the papilloniata, but their relationship to the adenomata seems to be very close. They are often supposed by clinical observ- ers to be cancerous, on account of their fungous appearance ; but they are of a totally different character. Dermoid Cysts.—These cysts are single or multilocular. They may he no larger than a walnut, or of very large size. They contain a thick, greasy material composed of epithelium, fat, and cholesterine. A portion of the internal surface of the cyst-wall may have the structure of the cutis : papillae, hair follicles, and sebaceous follicles. In the cavity of the cysts may be found masses of hair, teeth, bones, cartilage, striated muscle, nerve-fibres and cells, and gray nerve-matter. Such cysts may be congenital. Tiiey often last for many years without much inconvenience; but they may form adhesions and perforate into the adjoining organs. Fibroma.—A number of tumors have been seen in the ovaries by different observers, which, although resembling each other in their gross appearance, have a different anatomical structure. They occur usually in one ovary, sometimes in both. They are usually small, but may attain an immense size. They resemble the hard uterine myomata in their gross appearance. They occupy the entire ovary, or only part of it. They may contain cysts, or the follicles in the portion of ovary that is left may be dilated so as to form cysts. They are composed of fibrous tis- sue alone, or mixed with a little smooth muscle, or with fusi- form and round cells. They belong, therefore, to the classes of Fibroma, .Myo-fibroma, and Fibro-sarcoma. Encliondroma of the ovary is rare. Cartilaginous tissue is found is some composite and dermoid cysts. SyphilitiG Gummata in the form of white nodules have been observed in a few cases. Tiibercles very rarely occur in the ovary. They are describ- ed as cheesy nodules of some size. Sarcoma of the ovaries is not frequent. It may be primary or metastatic. The tumors are hard and dense, or softer and of loose texture. They are composed of fibrous tissue Avith fusi-