POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 214 Fehr gives the following figures as representing the causa- tion of the disease: Syphilis, 34 ; pulmonary phthisis, 32 ; with caries, 5; with other complications, 6; caries, with scro- fula, 26 ; empyema, 4 ; chronic bronchitis, 3 ; chronic alco- holism, 5; chronic articular rheumatism, 3 ; cancer, 3 ; intermit- tent fever, 4 ; hydronephrosis, 3 ; ulcers of the leg, 3 ; witliout known cause, 9. INFARCTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. Infarctions of the kidney are produced by the presence of an embolus in an artery or capillary vessel. If the embolus is in an artery, the size of the inforction will Correspond to the size of the vessel. As soon as the artery is plugged by the embolus, its branches are emptied or filled with thrombi. The wedge-shaped portion of kidney tissue, which is deprived of its supply of arterial blood, becomes of a deep yel- low color, and is a little swollen, while the epithelium in its tubes degenerates. Afterward, the epithelium becomes more granular and disappears; the tubes become collapsed and shrunken. At the periphery of the infarction there is a zone of congestion, and of accumulation of lymphoid elements in the intertubular tissue. After this, the infarction may continue to shrink, and the zone of congestion around it helps in the forma- tion of a fibrous cicatrix; or the production of lymphoid ele- ments may be so great as to form an abscess ; or the infarction becomes necrotic and gangrenous. Capillary emboli produce a number of small infarctions. The kidneys are swollen, soft, mottled with numerous small, red spots, each with a white or yellow centre. At the centre of these hsemorrhagic spots there can generally be found a small vessel plugged with a thrombus. Around this the tubal epi- thelium is degenerated, and the intertubular tissue infiltrated with lymj:)hoid cells. These latter cells may be so numerous as to form small abscesses. The whole appearance may resemble very closely that of pye- lo-nephritis. Colmheim has rejiorted a case of complete embolism of the