23 METHOD OF EXAMINATION. mine the presence of waxy degeneration, the cut surface of the kidney is washed with water to get rid of the blood, and then brushed repeatedly with an aqueous solution of Iodine. The malpighian bodies and blood-vessels are the parts usually affected by the degeneration. If they are so affected, they will appear as red dots and lines on a yellow ground. Sometimes a whitish fluid is seen in the pelvis and can be squeezed from the papillae: this is produced by a post-mortem desquamation of the epithelium. If there be any doubt as to the condition of the kidneys, microscopical examination is necessary. For this purpose, we make sections of the fresh kidney with a double-bladed knife, or the organ is frozen and sections made with a razor, or it may be preserved and hardened in a solution of Potass. Bi- chromate, or in alcohol. The condition of the tubal epithelium is best seen in fresh sections, or in sections from specimens har- dened in alcohol and examined in glycerine ; that of the inter- stitial tissue in Bichromate or alcohol preparations stained with carmine. Sections are absolutely necessary even to ascer- tain the condition of the epithelium. For not only is the epi- thelium of the tubes in the pyramids different from that of those in the cortex, but in the cortex the epithelium of the straight tubes differs from that of the convoluted tubes. In the straight tubes, the epithelium is regular, the edges of each cell and its nucleus well marked, and its body only slightly granular. In the convoluted tubes, the epithelium looks like a mass of granular matter, in which nuclei are imbedded at regular intervals. The Suprarenal Capsules are, in the foetus of an ovoid, in the adult, of a triangular shape. They are situated at the upper and inner border of the kidney, to which they are loosely or closely fitted. Their size varies. In the adult, the transverse diameter is from 40 to 55 mm. ; the vertical, 20 to 35 mm. ; their thickness is from 2 to 6 mm. They weigh from 8 to 120 grains. In new-born children, their weight is to that of the kidney as 1.3 ; in the adult, as 1.28. They are composed of a cortical and a medullary portion, the cortex forming a shell around the medula. They are inclosed