29 METHOD OP EXAMINATION. sometimes divided so that a portion of it lies behind these ves- sels. The head of the pancreas is embraced by and adherent to the concavity of the duodenum. The pancreatic duct usually joins the common bile-duct and has a common opening with it into the duodenum ; sometimes, however, the two ducts have separate openings. THE GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. (1.) The Male Organs.—If the urine is to be examined, it should be drawn off with a catheter. In many cases, it is sufficient to open the bladder on its upper surface, and examine it in place. If a more thorough examina- tion is necessary, the bladder should be removed with the ure- thra. For this purpose, the penis may be removed entire, or the skin is dissected otF from it nearly up to the glans penis, the penis is cut through at this point, and drawn out like a fin- ger from a glove, leaving the skin and glans penis behind. That portion of the urethra which passes beneath the arch.of the pubis may be carefully dissected away from the bones, or the bones may be sawn through on either side and the pubic arch removed, with the urethra, or the symphysis may be cut or sawn through and the pelvic bones violently separated. In this way, the urethra, prostate, vesiculae seminales, and bladder are removed together. The bladder and urethra should now be laid on the table, a long director passed into the urethra, the entire length of the canal laid open on its upper surface, and the incision prolonged into the wall of the bladder. (2.) The Female Organs.—After observing tlie position of the uterus and ovaries, these are to be removed together. The uterus and bladder are seized and the soft parts dissected away from them so that the bladder, uterus, ovaries, ligaments, upper part of the vagina and rectum are removed together. The bladder is first laid open, then the rectum, then the vagina and uterus on their anterior surface, then the ovaries and Fal- lopian tubes. In puerperal cases, incisions should be made through the broad ligaments and at many points in the wall of the uterus, to ascertain the condition of the uterine sinuses.