POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 314 matory swelling and congestion, and is slight; or it is due to the ulceration of the follicles and consequent destruction of blood-vessels. In the latter case, the bleeding may be so pro- fuse as to cause death. Mesenteric Glands.—The mesenteric glands undergo the same changes as the follicles of the intestines, and are usually affected in a degree corresponding to the intensity of the in- testinal lesions. The glands are at first congested and succulent, then there is a production of lymphoid cells and large cells, as in the intes- tinal follicles, and the gland becomes enlarged, sometimes to an enormous extent. When the enlargement has attained its full size, the congestion diminishes, and the cells begin to degene- rate. This degeneration may take place slowly, so that the gland retui'ns to its normal appearance; or more rapidly, so that little foci of softened piiriform material are formed. If these foci are small, they are absorbed, leaving a fibrous cica- trix ; if they are large, they become dry, cheesy, and inclosed in a fibrous capsule. The Spleen.—In nearly every case of typhoid fever, the spleen is enlarged. Sometimes, however, this lesion fails, and that without any satisfactory reason. In some cases, a preex- isting thickening of the capsule, or old adhesions, seem to explain the non-enlargement; but in others, no such obstacle exists. The enlargement of the spleen commences soon after the beginning of the disease, increases rapidly until the third week, remains stationary for a few days, and then diminishes. The organ is congested, of dark red color, and of firm consis- tence, while it is increasing in size. After it has reached its maximum size, its consistence becomes soft, and there is a con- siderable deposit of brown pigment. The enlargement appears to be due to the congestion, and to an increase of the normal elements of the spleen. Infarctions of the spleen are occasionally found in typhoid fever, although they are by no means peculiar to it. They may cicatrize, or soften and cause peritonitis. Rxt/ptv/re of the spleen is said to occur, in rare cases, without the presence of infarctions.