POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 122 roughened surface thus produced the fibrine of the blood is often deposited. The lesion may lead to the rupture of the vessel, or to the formation of ordinary, or of dissecting aneurisms. Calciiic degeneration takes place by the deposition of the salts of lime in the plate formed by the hyperplasia of the intima. We find thin plates, looking like bone, still covered by the intima, or bare. The jilates may be few and small, or large and numerous. The process may be accompanied by a calcification of the muscular cells of the middle coat. All the stages of simple hyperplasia, fatty, and calcific degeneration are often met with in the same vessel. Simple fatty degeneration of the intima may occur in the same artery in which the lesions of chronic endarteriitis are found. Under the name of Canalization Kokitansky describes a rare change in the inner coat. The intima is thickened and pierced with numerous small canals, into which the blood passes. In this way, the arterial wall is converted into a spongy, cavern- ous tissue resembling the corpus cavernosum. DEGENERATION, Sinvple Fatty Degeneration affects only small, circumscribed portions of the inner coat. There is a fatty degeneration of the cells of the intima, with absorption of the basement sub- stance. Tlie process begins in the inner layers of the inti- ma, and gradually works outward, forming small excavations. It may lead to rupture of the vessel. Calcification of the muscular cells of the middle coat occurs in connection with atheroma, with caries of the bones, and as an idiopathic affection. It is usually found in old people, and involves arteries of medium size. It may lead to gangrene of the parts supplied by the affected vessels. Amyloid Degeneration of the arteries is of common occur- rence. The inner coat and the muscular layer are infiltrated with a translucent material looking like wax. In extreme cases, the outer coat is infiltrated in the same way. The walls of the vessel appear thickened, stiff, and of a peculiar waxy color, they are colored mahogany red by the addition of a weak solution of Iodine. Tlie lumen of the affected vessel is diminished in size.