TUMOES. 359 The encliondromata most frequently grow from the medulla, or periosteum of the bones; in the salivary glands, the testis and mamma, but are also found in other regions. They may be single or multiple. They may reach a very large size. They are usually local growths of a benign character; but cases of recurrence and of metastatic tumors have been observed. F. Osteoid-Chondroma, Osteoid Cancer.—These tumors are composed of bone cartilage, such as we see normally existing as a stage of the ossification of the flat bones of the cranium. The cells are smaller than cartilage-cells, the intercellular substance is dense, or calcified. They are found especially at the ends of the long bones. Local recurrences after extirpa- tion and metastatic tumors are not uncommon. VI. Osteoma.—The formation of new bone, and the in- crease in size of normal bones, are of common occurrence. Only those bony growths, however, are classed among the tumors, which have a considerable size, are distinctly circum- scribed, and are not the result of inflammatory processes. The tissue of these tumors is the same as that of normal bone. The bone may be compact and hard, or cancellous and spongy, or separated by cavities containing medulla. Many of the fibrous and cartilaginous tumors may become ossified partially or entirely. Combinations of fibroma, chon- droma, sarcoma, and carcinoma, with osteoma, are not un- common. The osteomata occur either singly or may be developed in large numbers at once. They are found at all periods of life, and are sometimes congenital. They grow slowly and inter- ruptedly, usually without pain. They may be hereditary, or be caused by a blow, or may grow at the seat of a fracture. Eberth describes the case of a boy, in whom sixty-five osteo- mata were developed in the course of a year. The tumors ap- peared in groups, and each group was attended by a severe attack of fever. The osteomata are tumors of purely local significance and benign character. They grow from the bones, or from, the soft tissue. Those