67 THE LARYNX. the submucous tissue. The exudation adlieres firmly to the epithelium of the part, and when, after a time, it becomes loosened and falls off, the epithelium goes Avith it. The diagnosis between diphtheria and the croup of children belongs to clinical medicine. The anatomical lesion of diplithe- ria is a croupous exudation on and in whatever mucous mem- brane the disease happens to show itself. Inflammation of the Submucous Connective Tissue occurs as: (1.) (Edema glottidis. Here we find the epiglottis swollen, and from its base two bags of serum, formed of the aryteno- epiglottidean folds, extend backward. This oedema is often sufiicient to close the larynx and cause death. It accompanies acute catarrhal laryngitis, small-pox, typhoid fever, syphilitic and tuberculous ulcerations, facial erysipelas, and perichondritis. (2.) Purulent inflammation may attack the same parts which are implicated in oedema glottidis, and cause death in the same way. PericJiondritis.—Inflammation of the perichondrium of the cartilages of the larynx may be idiopathic or secondary to in- flammations of the mucous membrane. It usually attacks first the cricoid cartilage, and extends later to the other cartilages. The inflammation causes the production of pus and separation of the perichondrium from the cartilage, with the death of the latter. The cartilage is iisually found ossified, sometimes carious, sometimes degenerated and softened without ossifica- tion. The pus spi'eads to the submucous tissue, collects in abscesses, and may cause death by suffocation, or may perforate the mucous membrane. When the inflammation extends out- ward, abscesses and sinuses form on the outside of the larynx, and may perforate through the skin of the neck. Portions of the necrosed cartilages may find their way into the cavity of the larynx and be coughed out, or may become fixed in the rima glottidis and cause suffocation, or may pass into the bronchi. In other cases, the portions of cartilage may be dis- charged outward througli openings in the skin. Syphilitic Laryngitis.—Constitutional syphilis shows itself very frequently in the larynx. It produces here simple catarrhal inflammation, or the mucous follicles may swell and ulcerate, or