194 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. growths were composed of anastomosing canals, lined with epi- thelium, and containing peculiar hyaline bodies. The exact na- ture of these growths in the liver, as well as elsewhere, is still undetermined. PARASITES. Echinococcus.—This form of parasite occurs frequently, form- ing the so-called hydatids of the liver. It is one of the stages of development of a small tape-worm, the Taenia echinococcus, which inhabits the intestines of the dog. We find in the liver cavities lined with a layer of gelatinous material, to the inner wall of which are attached the heads of the echinococcus; or, the cavities are tilled with a multitude of little cysts, from the inner surface of which grow the heads. Or, the cysts may be sterile, and we find the gelatinous material without any of the heads. Or, the contents of the cyst degene- rate, and we find their contents mixed with fat, or pus, or bile, or blood, or their walls may be thickened with fibrous tissue, or be calcified. In New-York, the lesion is a rare one, and we usually find only one or two cysts with degenerated contents. In other countries, the lesion is much more common and for- midable. The cysts reach an enormous size, the veins of the liver may be compressed and filled with thrombi, the bile-ducts compressed and ulcerated. So much of the liver tissue may be replaced by the hydatids, that the patient may die from this cause aloue. Very frequently there is local peritonitis, and ad- hesions are formed between the liver and the surrounding parts. In some cases the cysts rupture, and their contents are emp- tied into the peritoneal cavity, the stomach, the intestines, the pleural cavity," or the lung tissue. Sometimes the cysts perfo- rate the bile-ducts, the vena cava, or some of the branches of the portal or hepatic veins. Sometimes the abdominal wall is perforated and a fistula formed between the cavity in the liver and the skin. A rare and peculiar development of the parasite was first de- .-scribed by Yirchow, under the name of Echinococciis multilocu-