145 THE STOMACH. ble distance ; or tliere are ulcers with tliickened edges and rag- ged floors. The disease begins in the submucous coat, or, according to some authors, in the gastric follicles. The mucous membrane is lifted up and pushed inward; after a time, it usually ulcerates. The new growth may also extend outward, and invade all the other coats of the stomach. There may be also an hypertrophy of the muscular coat, either confined to the pylorus or involv- ing the entire wall of the organ. The muscular coat then looks like a thick, gray layer, divided up by white bands. The gray tissue is smooth muscle; the white bands are fibi'ous septa, which may become infiltrated with cells. The post-mortem appearances vary according to the stage of the disease, and the way in which it has grown. At first, the new growth is confined to the submucous coat, and the mucous membrane is uniformly lifted up, or projects in flattened tu- mors. Yeiy often, however, necrotic and ulcerative changes soon make their appearance. The mucous membrane ulcerates, and the new growth projects as a ragged, fungous mass ; ortlie new growth also ulcerates, and leaves a rounded ulcer with thickened edges ; or the new growth ulcerates, and at the same time goes on to invade the subjacent tissues. In this way, the wall of the stomach is perforated, and peritonitis ensues; or ad- hesions are formed, and the perforation takes place into the in- testines, the abdominal wall, or the diaphragm ; or tlie disease invades the neighboring organs; the liver, pancreas, spleen, supra-renal capsules, kidneys, vertebrae, portal vein, and vena cava. The necrotic processes may even go on in the new growth in these other organs. Thus we find large cavities with fungous walls in the liver, communicating with the cavity of the stomach. When the new growth is at the pylorus, it may seriously ob- struct the egress of food, and in this way dilatation of the rest of the stomach may be produced. Secondary tumors are very frequently found in the neighboring lymphatic glands, the liver, pancreas, lungs, and other viscera. The above description applies to all the varieties of carcino- ma, excepting the colloid form. 10