THE PLEURA. 91 found after a number of such attacks. This form of pleurisy usually gives no marked symptoms during life, and is frequent- ly overlooked. It is very common to find, at the post-mortem, old adhesions, the existence of which was not suspected during life. (2.) The exudation consists of fibrine and sei'um. The plen- ral cavity is partly or completely filled with turbid serum, mixed with flocculi of fibrine, and a few lymphoid cells. The pleura itself is coated with a yellow, membranous layer, com- posed of fibrine and lymphoid cells. Sometimes there are extravasations of blood on the surface of the pleura, and in the fluid. The serum usually occupies the lower portion of the pleural cavity, but sometimes is confined by adhesions and false membranes to other portions of tlie cavity. If the serum occupies the lower half of the cavity, the lower lobe of the lung is compressed and unaerated, and the entire lung pushed up- ward. If the cavity is full of serum, the entire lung is coni- pressed toward its root, and against the vertebral column. Such a pleurisy, with efiiision, may entirely disappear, leaving only some adhesions behind it; or it may continue so long without absorption of the fluid that the patient dies from its effect, or the effusion becomes purulent. If absorption takes place, the lung tissue resumes its normal consistence, although sometimes, when the effusion is of very long standing, the lung may remain compressed and bound down by adhesions. (3.) There is an exudation of purulent serum. The pleural cavity is found filled with yellow, often stinking fluid, the pleura is coated with fibrine and pus. The fluid is usually in large quantities, and in the lower part of the pleural cavity. Sometimes, however, it occurs in the form of circumscribed collections of pus between the pulmonary and costal, or dia- phragmatic pleura, entirely shut in by adhesions. Such a pur- ulent pleurisy, or empyema, is either fatal, or may be absorbed, or may perforate the chest-wall and escape externally, or may perforate the lung and escape through a bronchus, or may perforate the diaphragm, and find its way downward behind the peritoneum. Wunderlich describes a suppurative peri- pleuritis which forms abscesses between the costal and dia-