31 METHOD OF EXAMINATIOK. cuboidal epithelium. In the lower half of the cervix there are small papillse covered with ciliated epithelium, between the openings of the mucous follicles. We also find in the mucous membrane closed, rounded follicles, (ovula Nabothi,) containing mucus and epithelium, Avhich are regarded as retention cysts of the mucous follicles, or as new growths. The outer surface of the cervix contains no glands, but is covered with small pa- pillae. At every menstruation the mucous membrane under- goes a rapid growth,, followed by a rapid degeneration. The changes produced in the uterus by pregnancy are so fully de- scribed in works on obstetrics that it is unnecessary to speak of them here. The Ovaries are two flattened oval bodies, which are placed one on each side, nearly horizontally, at the back of the broad ligament of the uterus, and are enveloped by its posterior mem- braneous layer. They are largest in the virgin state; their weight is from 3-5 scruples, and they measure about \\ inches in length, f inch in breadth, and nearly \ inch in thickness. Each ovary is free on its two sides, and also along its postei'ior border; but it is attached by its anterior border. Its inner end is attached to the ligaments of the ovary. To its outer extre- mity is attached one of the fimbriae of the Fallopian tube. The ovary is covered by the peritoneum, except at its at- tached border. Beneath this is a dense fibrous capsule. The ovary proper consists of a connective tissue stroma, in which, according to some writers, are smooth muscular fibres. Scat- tered through the stroma are the Graafian vescicles containing the ova. In adult females, we usually find corpora Intra in their various stages. The Fallopicm Tubes are between three and four inches in length. They commence at the upper angles of the uterus as small cords, which become larger, bend backward and down- ward toward the ovary. They terminate in an expanded fim- briated extremity, about an inch beyond the ovary. The tiibes are covered by the peritoneum. Their walls are composed of connective tissue and smooth muscular fibres. Their inner surface is thrown into folds, and lined