128 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. INFLAMMATION. 1. Catarrhal Stomatitis is seldom an object of post-mortem importance, except when caused by irritating poisons. It is fonnd most frequently in children, but also in adults. It is pro- duced by a great variety of local and constitutional causes. Of the conditions which are seen during life, the h}^erfe- mia, increased secretion, white coating and swelling of the mu- cous membrane, but little remains after death. If irritating poisons have passed through the mouth, the mu- cous membrane, especially near the pharynx, will be found in- tensely red, or with black or white patches surrounded by in- tense congestion. 2. Croupous Stomatitis is caused by local irritants; by a continuation of the same disease from the larynx and pharynx; as a result of syphilis and mercurial treatment; with the ex- anthematous fevers; in cachetic subjects in the form of aphthte ; as epidemic diphtheria. The mildest degree of this form is seen in the aphthous sore mouth of children and cachec- tic persons. N^umerous little white patches of fibrinous exuda- tion make their appearance on the lips and gums. The exuda- tion is cast oif with the epithelium which adheres to it, leaving a superficial \ilcer, and this ulcer may be again covered with fi-esh exudation. The severest degrees are found in endemic diphtheria. Fi- brinous exudation is found both on the surface and in tlie sub- stance of the mucous membrane. In consequence of this, large patches of the nmcous membrane become gangrenous, and are cast off. The gangrene may extend also to the subjacent soft parts, and form deep ulcers. If tlie patient recovers, these ul- cers cicatrize, and may, by their contraction, jn-oduce great de- formities. 3. Phlegomonous Stomatitis is caused by injuries, by diseases of the teeth and bones, and may be idiopathic. The inflamma- tion attacks the deep layers of the mucous membrane, and forms abscesses there. Sometimes there is so mucli swelling of the soft parts about the fauces, tliat there is imminent danger of suffocation.