260 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS, ance and capacities of a man; if tlieir development is arrested, the individual is small and has a womanish aj)pearance. In lesser grades of the same malformation, the two halves of the scrotum are joined and the penis is larger, but a part of the urethra remains open as a cleft. Uterus MasGulinus.—This malformation consists in an ab- normal change in the transition from the foetal condition of the parts to their fully developed form. In the male, normally, the greater part of Miiller's canal disappears, and its lower end forms the vesicula prostatica. In this malformation, Miiller's canal is changed, as it is in the female, into Fallopian tubes, uterus, and vagina, while at the same time the testes, epididymes, vesiculse seminales, and spermatic cord are formed as usual. In the lesser degrees of this malformation, we find, in the place of the vesicula prostatica, a pear-shaped sac, as large as a pigeon's egg, with muscular walls and an epitlielial lining. This sac may be incompletely divided into a uterus and vagina, and it opens into the urethra. In the higher grades, we find a well- formed vagina and uterus. The uterus may or may not have Fallopian tubes. The testicles are usually retained in the abdo- men or inguinal canals, and are small. The spermatic ducts run on the sides of the uterus and 0])en into the urethra or remain closed. The penis and scrotum appear as in hypospa- dia, or are well formed. The appearance of the individual varies with the development of the testicles. A rare modification of this malformation consists in tlie exis- tence of hypospadia; of a vagina and uterus; of a Fallopian tube and ovary on one side, and of a testicle and spermatic cord on the other side. HYPERTROPHY, ATROPHY, Hypertrophy of the penis is sometimes caused by venous congestion from heart-disease ; by long-continued masturbation, the corpus cavernosum losing its contractility; and in rare cases, by hypertrophy of the stroma of the corpus cavernosum. Atrophy is sometimes produced by chronic iilceration of the glans penis, and sometimes follows atrophy of the testicles.