89 THE LUNGS. These tiimors have the same structure as the primary tumors, but may be pigmented when the latter are not. Carcinoma is usually secondary, but may be primary. It may be medullary, melanotic, epithelial, or colloid. It occurs as nodules of various size and number, or may infiltrate large portions of the lung. It may spread to the pleura, the peri- cardium, the heart, and the walls of the thorax, and appear on tlie outside of the chest. Pigment is found regularly to a considerable amount in the adult lung. In old age, the quantity may increase very consid- erably. It is a very common thing to find, under the pleura, little nodules composed entirely of pigment. Fibrous indura- tion, and the pigment induration of heart-disease, are accom- panied by an increased formation of pigment. In miners, charcoal-workers, grinders, and persons who constantly inliale foreign particles, the lungs become intensely pigmented—an- thracosis. In them the pigment is partly the foreign particles themselves, and partly produced by the chronic bronchitis. In all the cases, the pigment is found in the connective tissue and epithelial cells, in the form of granules or masses. It is pro- bably derived from the coloring matter of the blood, in conse- quence of an abnormal stagnation in the capillaries. Myoma I have seen in one instance. It occurred in a man aged 52, who had symptoms of bronchitis and laryngitis. The tumors formed large white nodules in the upper lobe of the lung. The nodules consisted almost entirely of smooth muscle. PAKASITES. Echhioeocci occ\ir in the lungs as a cyst, surrounded by a thick fibrous capsule. The capsule may suppurate and the sac be emptied into a bronchus, into the pleura, through the chest- wall, through the diapliragm, or into the intestines. Cysiicercus CelUdosm is not frequent in the lungs. Strongylits Longevaginatus has been seen in a child's lung. In gangrenous cavities of the lungs, vegetable parasites, be- longing to the varieties aspergillus, mucor, and sarcina, have been observed.