THE NEW-BOllN IKFANT. 35 tlie cuticle separates from the skin and abdomen. The umbili- cal cord is of a brownish red color, flattened, semi-transparent, and twisted. The skin around its insertion is red and congested. Further Inspection of tJie Body.—The head should be exa- mined for the mai'ks of injuries. Yery commonly some portion of the scalp will be found swollen and infiltrated with blood and serum. This is the caput succedaneum formed during delivery. The mouth and nose should be examined for the presence of any foreign bodies which might have caused suffocation. The neck should be examined for the marks of strangulation. The umbilical cord may be twisted around the child's neck and strangle it. The mark left by the umbilical cord is usually con- tinuous, broad, soft, not excoriated, sometimes accompanied by ecchyjnoses in the skin. The entire body should be examined as to the presence of vernix caseosa, blood, marks of injuries, and the existence of putrefaction. The umbilical cord may be found cut or torn. It usually separates by the fifth day, sometimes not until the tenth. If the umbilicus is cicatrized and healed, the child has probably lived for three weeks. A zone of redness around the insertion of the cord may exist previous to birth. Redness with swelling and suppuration can only be found in a child which has lived for several days. The drying and mummification of the cord ]nay take place as well in dead as in living children. It is pos- sible for a child to die by hfemorrhage from a cut or torn cord either before or after it has breathed. The extremities may exhibit fractures of their bones. Tills may take place during intra-uterine life, from injuries to the woman, or from unknown causes; or may be produced by a violent delivery, or by injuries after birth. INTERNAL EXAAriNATIGN. The Head.—The fontanelles and sutures should first be exa- mined as to their size and for penetrating wounds. An incision should then be made through the scalp across the vertex, and the flaps turned backward and forward. AVith a small knife the