POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 36 edges of the bones slioiild be separated from the membranous suture and the dura mater, beginning low down in the frontal suture and going back into the lambdoidal suture on either side. The bones are then drawn outward and cut through with a pair of strong scissors. The brain is removed as in the adult. Etfusions of blood—cephalhsematoma—may be formed soon after birth between the pericranium and bone, or more rarely between the dura mater and bone. Clots are also found be- tween the dura mater and skull, between the dura mater and pia mater, and more rarely in the substance of the brain as the result of protracted or instrumental deliveries, or of injuries after birth. The cranial bones may be malformed, or exhibit the lesions of ricketts or caries, or be indented, fissured, or fractured. The indentations, fissures, and fractures may be produced during iiitra-uterine life by injuries to the mother, or by unknown causes ; by difficult deliveries, and by direct violence after birth. The brain is naturally much softer and pinker than in the adult; it may be much congested or anaemic without known cause. The ventricles contain very little serum. Malforma- tions, apoplexies, hydrocephalus, and inflammatory lesions are to be looked for. The pharynx should be opened and examined for foreign bodies. The thyroid gland weighs about 3 iij. It may be enlarged so as to interfere with respiration. The larynx and trachea should be examined for the lesions of inflammation and for injuries to the cartilages. The Thorax should be opened as in the adult. The thymus gland occupies the upper portion of the anterior mediastinum, covering the trachea and large vessels. Its ave- rage weight is half an ounce. It may be hypertrophied and com- press the large vessels, or be inflamed and suppurating. The heart lies more in the median line than in the adult. It weighs 1^-3^ ounces. The ventricular walls are of nearly equal thickness. The pericardium contains very little eerum. The serum may be increased in amount and stained red by decom-