183 THE LIVER. and its edges are rounded; but the increase may also be in thick- ness, and the edges may remain sharp. In other cases, the liv- er is of normal size, and in others again is atrophied. The col- or is red, mottled with large patches of yellow on the surface ; in such cases, only the yellow portions of the liver are fatty. Or, the entire liver has a mottled red and yellow color, resem- bling the nutmeg-liver; this is produced by fatty degeneration of the cells at the periphery of each acinus, with some conges- tion of the veins at its centre. Or, the entire liver is of a pale yellow color, and contains very little blood. Or, there may be yellow or green staining with bile pigment. The consistence of the liver also varies. It may be very soft and greasy, or it may be firm, or even hard. This firmness may depend on a dififerent character of the fat, or on the coexistence of chronic interstitial hepatitis, or on waxy degeneration of some of the liver-cells. Of the causes of fatty liver we are, in a great measure, igno- rant. In persons affected with pulmonary phthisis, and in hab- itual drinkers, the lesion is so often met with that it may be considered as dependent upon those conditions; but it is also seen associated with many other diseases. Fatty liver may produce jaundice and symptoms of bile- THE WAXY LIVER. The liver is not infrequently the seat of an infiltration with a peculiar transparent, homogeneous, glistening substance. This substance, called amyloid, waxy, or lardaceous material, has the property of being stained of a deep-red color by a weak solution of iodine. It has been supposed to be analogous to cellulose; to be an albuminous substance; to be dealkalized fibrine, etc.; but as yet there is no exact knowledge of its real nature. In the liver, the waxy material affects, first, the walls of the branches of the hepatic artery ; then the liver-cells mid- way between the centres and peripheries of the acini; then the centres of the acini; and lastly, the whole of the acini. The