312 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. (4.) In more severe types of the disease, the enlargement of the follicles ends in ulceration. This takes place in two ways. (a.) The enlarged follicles soften, break down, and discharge their contents into the intestine. In this way are formed small ulcers. These iilcers increase in size by the same softening process, which gradually attacks their edges, and in this way ulcers of large size may be formed. The ulcers may extend outward only to the peritoneal coat, or it may extend to the peritoneal coat and terminate in perforation. (b.) In the severest forms of the disease, considerable portions of the enlarged patches slough en masse^ leaving a large ulcer with thick, overhanging edges. The slough may involve only the follicles, or it may extend to the musciilar and even to the peritoneal coat. These ulcers also may afterward increase in area, and several of them may become joined together. The ulceration, if the patient recover, cicatrizes, its edges be- come flattened, its floor is covered with a thin membrane cover- ed with cylindrical epithelium. Both forms of ulceration sometimes end in perforation. This takes place by the extension of the ulcerative process through the peritoneal coat, or by the rupture of the floor of the ulcer from some mechanical cause. Peritonitis and death are the usual events. In rare cases, however, the patient recovers, the perforation being closed by adhesions. The minute changes which take place in the course of the intestinal lesions are as follows : At first the blood-vessels around the follicles are dilated and congested, while the follicles are swollen, and the epithelium falls ofl". Then the follicles increase largely in size, and the increase is due to anew cell-growth. The new cells are in part similar to the lymphoid cells, which normally compose the fol- licles ; in part are large rounded cells, 6-8 times as large as these, and containing several nuclei. Tlie production of new cells is not confined to the follicles, but extends to the adjacent mucous membrane. In many cases, also, little foci of the same cells are found in the muscular, subserous, and serous coats. This increased number of cells compresses the vessels, and the parts become anaemic. Soon the cells degenerate, either by