76 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. Congestion and a?dema confined to tlie posterior portions of the lower lobes are nsually merely post-mortem changes, and ai'e most marked in hot weather. When, however, the congestion and oedema are excessive, and especially when they involve the upper lobes, Ave may conclnde that they existed dnring life. To determine, however, their importance in prodncing death, a reference to the clinical history is necessary. Congestion and oedema, in different relative proportions, occnr with cardiac dis- ease, with changes in the nervous centres retarding the act of respiration, with coma from any cause, with renal disease, with any chronic, exhausting disease, general anasarca from any cause, bronchitis and pneumonia, narcotic poisons and sunstroke. In some of these cases, as in renal disease, general anasarca, bronchitis and pneumonia, the congestion and oedema appear to be the direct cause of death. In exhausting diseases, also, the case is the same, although here there is very often filling up of the air-cells with the products of inflammation. In persons dying comatose, however, from any cause, the condition of affairs is different. The congestion and a-dema, although often very excessive, are merely the accompaniments of diseases which are of themselves sufficient to destroy life. II.55M0RRnAGE. Effusions of blood which lacerate the lung tissue are not common. Tliey are produced by penetrating wounds, conti:- sions, atheroma, and dilatation of the pulmonary arteries, rup- ture of aortic aneurisms, and rarely by a simple effusion of blood into the alveoli. We find a considerable portion of the lung tissue broken, down and infiltrated with blood, and the blood may also rupture through the ]>leura. Cavities in the lungs produced by plithisis, syphilis, or gan- crene are sometimes found filled with blood from the idccration of a large vessel. The most common form of haemorrhage, however, is tliat called " pulmonary apoplexy," or htemorrhagic infarction. Tliis consists in the filling up of the air-cells with blood. We find at any portion of the bmgs, and even in lungs compressed by pleuritic fluid, a few nodules, from the size of a chestnut to that