POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 366 having its type in connective tissne proper, and of myxo, clion- dro, osteo, and glio-sarcoma as belonging to tlie same group. Of sarcoma proper we also distinguish several varieties, ac- cording to the character of the cells and the amount of the basement substance. Thus, a sarcoma entirely composed of cells, with a very scanty stroma, is called a " medullary sarcoma." If the cells are nearly all of the spindle-shape, a sarcoma-fusocel- lulare. If there are many of the large nucleated bodies called myeloplaxes, a sarcoma gigantocellulare, etc. If the stroma is abundant, and the cells less numerous, we call it a fibro- sarcoma. Besides these forms, we also find tumors in which there are other anatomical elements in addition to those belonging to the connective tissue. A tumor may be partly formed of muscular tissue, myo-sarcoma; of glandular tissue, adeno-sarcoma; of fatty tissue, sarcoma lipomatodes, etc. Still further, Yirchow has given the name of lympho-sarcoma to a group of tumors Avhich begin in the lymphatic glands and have the same structure as them, but have the clinical history of sarcoma. These tiimors may grow from any point of the body where connective tissue exists. They are of very frequent occurrence. The group is a large one; and while there are some general laws which all obey, there are many modifications. Generally speaking, these tumors are, when of small size and of short duration, merely local growths. If completely removed, they may never recur, or not until after several years. When they grow quickly, become of large size, and invade the neigh- boring tissues, they are very malignant; recur soon after extir- pation, and form metastatic tumors in the viscera. The prognosis varies also with the situation of the tumor and with the age and condition of the patient. In the case of any given tumor, therefore, in order to give an intelligent prognosis, it is necessary to know the situation of the tumor, the time which it has been growing, and the age of the patient, as well as the anatomical characters of the growth. The different forms of sarcoma have been described under different names by various authors. Fibro-plastic tiunor,