241 THE UTERUS. II^MOKKnAGE. Eifuslon of blood into tlie cavity of the uterus occurs normal- ly at every menstrual period. An excessive or deficient flow of blood at these periods is determined by causes which are de- scribed by the gynsecologists. Effusions of blood at other than the menstrual periods may be caused by mechanical hyperaemia, by haemorrhoids, by acute hyperjEmia, by intra-uterine polypi, by acute and chronic inflam- mation, by typhus fever, scurvy, etc., by ulcerating carcinoma, by abortions and miscarriages. A peculiar form of hseuiorrhage is the polypoid liiematoma, or fibrinous polypus of the uterus. It occurs after parturition and after abortions. The portion of the uterine wall where the placenta was attached, with or without a portion of retained jjlacenta, forms the point of attachment of the pedicle of the polypus. We find a large, polypoid, bloody mass, firmly at- tached by a pedicle to the uterine wall. The uterus enlarges with the growth of the polypus ; the cervix is dilated, and the thrombus projects into and may even fill up the vagina. The formation of such a thrombus is accompanied by repeated hajmorrhages. IIiiemorrha2;e in the substance of the uterus occurs in old a^e. The mucous membrane and uterine wall are infiltrated with blood, and there is some blood in the uterine cavity. Retro-uterine^ or Peri-uterine Ucematocele, consists in an accumulation of blood around the uterus or in Douglas's cul de sac. It may consist of blood extravasated into the abdominal cavity, which settles into the pelvis; or, in consequence of local liyperaemia, there may be repeated extravasations of blood. In the latter case, the local peritonitis may produce false mem- branes, between the layers of which htemorrhages take place. A similar condition more rarely occurs in the male. The hfemorrhagic mass may be absorbed, or may soften, sup- purate, and perforate into the rectum or vagina. Some authors describe an extra-peritoneal hsematocele which lies between the folds of the broad ligament. Tyler Smith be- lieves that an extravasation may be inclosed by a secondary 16