146 POST-ilORTEM EXAMINATIONS. Tlie distinction between tlie mednllaiy and scirrhous forms seems to be unimportant. It depends merely on the reLative proportion between the cells and stroma, a proportion which presents every sort of gradation. The presence of pigment also, forming melanotic cancer, seems to be merely an accidental complication. The structm-e of the medullary, scirrhus, and melanotic varieties is essentially the same: a fibrous stroma, inclosing cavities filled with cells ; the cells polygonal, nucleat- ed, and of an epithelial character. Epithelial Cancer of the stomach consists of cells resembling the normal cylindrical epithelial cells of that organ. The cavi- ties in which these cells are arranged are long, and resemble glandular follicles. The near relationship of the epithelial to the scirrhus and medullary cancer may be inferred from the fact that the secondary nodules in the liver are not always formed of cylindrical cells, but sometimes of polygonal cells. Epithe- lial Cancer with pavement colls is rare. It is secondary to simi- lar growths in the upper part of the alimentary canal. Colloid or alveolar cancer presents a different appearance. It usually forms a uniform infiltration of the wall of the stomach, especially of its pyloric portion. It has less tendency to ulce- rate, but often invades the entire thickness of the wall of the stomach, and appears on its peritoneal surface in the form of ir- regular nodules. The disease may spread over a considerable portion of the peritoneum, but does not usually foi'm secondary nodules. This form of cancer consists of a fibrous stroma, form- ing rounded alveoli. The alveoli are filled with a gelatinous material, in -which are imbedded polygonal nucleated cells. The presence of the gelatinous material gives to the entire growth a peculiar soft consistence, and gray translucent color. Sarcoma is found in the stomach in rare instances, both as a primaiy and a secondary growth. As a primary tumor, it is most frequent in young persons. It invades all the coats of the stomach, and projects inward as a fungous tumor. Myoma occurs in the form of rounded tumors, -which origi- nate in the muscular coat, but gradually separate themselves from it, and project inward or outward. Tlie submucous myo- uiata are at first small tumors, lying loosely attached in thesxib-