217 THE KIDNEYS. tered through the cortex and pyramids, usually small, not often larger than a small chestnut. The cysts contain clear serum, or colloid matter, or brownish pigment. Their walls are thin, smooth, and lined with pavement epithelium. The larger cysts are formed by the fusion of several smaller cysts. In some of the cysts the remains of the atrophied Malpighian tufts can be found. The kidneys are usually atrophied, sometimes large. Minute examination shows the lesions of diffuse nephritis, with dilatation of the tubes and Malpighian capsules. In many kidneys, all the different stages of the dilatation process can be distinctly seen. The dilatation does not seem to be always due to compression of the tubes by new fibrous interstitial tissue ; but is also caused by the plugging of the tubes with colloid cast- matter. PRECIPITATES AND CONCRETIONS. The Urates.—In the kidneys of new-born children, we often find narrow, orange-colored lines in the pyramids parallel to the tubes. These lines consist of small, brownish-yellow, rounded, or angular bodies, resembling the sediment of urate of ammonia so often found in the urine. If acetic acid is added, these bodies are dissolved, and crystals of uric acid are formed. These deposits are found, as a rule, in infants which have breathed from thirty-six to forty-eight hours. Exceptional cases have been reported, however, in which the same condi- tion was found in still-born children. Pigment.—In new-born children there are sometimes reddish- brown lines in the papillae and pyramids. They are composed of granules of pigments and ci'ystals of hsematoidine. They are the results of small haemorrhages in the tubes. They can be distinguished from the deposits of urates by the chemical reaction. The Carbonate and Phosphate of Lime may be deposited in the tubes of the pyramids, in the form of white lines. They are found in old persons, and with destructive diseases of the bones. " Urate of Soda is deposited in white lines and spots in the