273 THE MAMMA. NEW GROWTHS. General Hypertrophy of the mamma is a rare lesion. It may alFect one or both breasts. It usually is foimd in young, unmarried women; sometimes, however, in advanced life. The glandular acini are increased in number and size. The inter- stitial connective tissue is also much increased. Cysts are formed by dilatation of the ducts and acini of the mammary gland; as new growths in the connective tissue ; and as an accompaniment of some forms of new growth. Cysts containing milk are formed, during lactation, by the dilatation of the glandular acini and ducts. In the latter case, they may reach an enormous size, and contain several pounds of fluid. The milk may become mixed with serum, mucus, blood, colloid matter, and coagulated fat. The acini may be dilated so as to form a great number of little cysts, containing serum or mucus. Minute examination shows the change beginning in the terminal acini as a simple dilatation. The epithelium is at first preserved. This condi- tion is found in young women, with a too rapid development of the gland; in old women, with its atrophy. Dilatation of the glandular ducts produces cysts of larger size. These cysts may be simple, or incompletely divided by septa, or there may be papillary ingrowths from their walls. Cysts are formed in the stroma of the gland, independently of the glandular tissue. Their walls are lined with pavement epithelium, their contents are serous or colloid fluid. Their size varies from that of a pea to that of a man's fist. They are found in small and large numbers. There may be haemorrhages into their cavities, inflammation and calcification of their walls, and papillary ingrowths. Fibroma Diffusum.—This process may be classed as a new growth or as a chronic inflammation. There is an increase of the flbrous stroma throughout the gland, the glandular tissue remaining intact. Afterward, the new connective tissue shrinks and becomes harder, the glandular tissue is atrophied, and there may be cystic dilatation of the acini and ducts. The entire process is often accompanied by a great deal of pain, 18