THE KEW-BOEN INFANT. 38 thymus and the suprarenal capsules are formed. The cerebel- lum, cerebrum, medulla, and the cavities of the heart can be recognized. The humerus is 3^ lines long; the radius, 2^ lines; the ulna, 3 lines; the femur, 2-3 lines; the tibia, 2-3 lines ; the fibula, 2|- lines. The ovum is as large as a goose's egg. At the sixteenth week, the embryo is 5-6 inches long, and weighs 7-^-9 ounces. The skin is of a rose-red color ; there is a commencement of formation of fat in the subcutaneous tissue. The scrotum and labia are formed. The face begins to assume its proper appearance. There is meconium of a white color in the duodenum. The liver is not so disproportionately large; the gall bladder is formed; the anus is open. The length of the humerus is 8 lines ; of the radius, 8 lines ; of the femur, 4-5 lines; of the tibia, 4-5 lines. The calcaneus begins to ossify at the middle of the fourth month. At the twentieth week, the embryo is 10-11 inches long ; it weighs from 21-30 ounces. The nails are very perceptible. There is a thin down on the head. There is not yet any of the vernix caseosa. The secretion of bile has commenced, and stains the meconium. The insertion of the umbilical cord is fur- ther otf from the pubes. The convolutions of the brain cannot be recognized. The humerus is 13-15 lines in length ; the ra- dius, 12 lines ; the ulna, 13 lines ; the femur, 12 lines ; the tibia and fibula, each 12 lines. The astragalus begins to ossify ; also the upper part of the sternum. At the twenty-fourth week, the embryo is 12-13 inches long, and weighs l^lf pounds. The lanugo and the vernix caseosa are formed. The skin is of a dusky cinnabar red color. The meconium is darker. The scrotum is empty, small, and red; the labia majora are prominent. The pupillary membrane is present and easily recognized. The length of the humerus is 16 lines; of the radius 16 lines; of the ulna, the femur, the tibia, and the fibula, each 17 lines. At the twenty-eighth week, the embryo is 14-15 inches long, and weighs 3-3|- pounds. The hair is more abundant and longer. Tlie large intestine is filled with meconium. The hu- merus is 20-22 lines long; the radius, 17 lines; the ulna, 18 lines; the femur, tibia, and fibula, each 19-21 lines. 3