311 TYPHOID FEVER. patches appear very large, a number of them may become fused together, and there may be even an annular infiltration entirely around the lower end of the ileum. The infiltration of the agminated follicles may also extend outward into the muscular coat, and even appear beneath and in the peritoneal coat as small, gray, rounded nodiiles. This condition is usually found only with a few patches in tlie lower end of the ileum ; sometimes in the coecum and appendix ver- miformis. These little gray nodules usually correspond to diseased patches beneath them ; but sometimes they appear to excite an inflammation of the peritoneum, accompanied by the production of numbers of similar nodules all over that mem- brane. Hoffmann describes a case in which the inflammation extended to the pleura with the production of similar nodules there. Tlie solitary follicles are affected in the same way as Pey- er's patches. They may be hardly enlarged at all, or be quite prominent, or may be afi'ected over a larger portion of the in- testine than are the patches. Very rarely the solitary follicles are enlarged, while the patches are not at all or but slightly affected. The inflammation and enlargement of the agminated and solitary follicles is followed by a healing process. The charac- ter of this process varies according to the intensity of the pre- vious inflammation. (1.) If the disease was mild, and the enlargement of the fol- licles moderate, the enlargement gradually disappears, and the follicles resume their normal appearance. (2.) In moderate enlargements, the retrograde processes affect first the follicles, and leave the septa between them still swollen and prominent. This gives to the sui'face of a patch a reticu- lated appearance. After a time, however, the entire patch becomes flattened and uniform. (3.) The solitary follicles, or the separate follicles of a patch soften, break down, and their contents are discharged with some attendant haemorrhage. This leaves a bluish-gray pig- mentation in the situation of each follicle. This pigmentation may remain for years.