THE PHARYNX AND THE CESOFHAGUF. 135 a poncli becomes longer as the food accumulates in it and hangs down behind tlie oesophagus. The pouch then compresses the ojsophagus, and its mouth forms nearly a straight line with the oesophagus above it, so that the food passes more readily into the sac than into the oesophagus below it. In this way, the sac is constantly distended with food, from which it is only reliev- ed by occasional vomiting. In this way, the dilatation goes on increasing until the patient dies from starvation. The causes of this condition are: portions of solid food re- maining for some time in the oesophagus or in a fold of its mu- cous membrane ; the traction of adhesions between inflamed lymphatic glands and the oesophagus ; stenosis and hernial pro- trusions of the mucous membrane of the pharynx through spaces in its muscular coat. Stenosis of the oesophagus is produced by changes in its walls or by external pressure. Changes in its walls are produced by new growths, by cica- trices, by thickening of the submucous connective tissue, and by hypertrophy of the muscular coat. Pressiu'e from without is produced by tumors in the neck and thorax; by enlarged glands; by aneurisms; by exostoses of the vertebrae; by the right subclavian artery, when it arises from the arch of the aorta on the left side and passes between the oesophagus and the vertebrae, or between the oesophagus and trachea; by abscesses in the neck and mediastinum; by tu- mors and abscesses in the lungs, liver, and diaphragm. NEW GROWTHS. Epithelioma is the form of malignant disease which most frequently attacks the pharynx and oesophagus, although true cancer is said to occur there. The upper part of the pharynx is seldom the primary seat of the disease. Usually it is invaded by the disease beginning in the mouth, the cervical glands, or the base of the cranium. In the lower part of the pharynx and the oesophagus the dis- ease is usually primary. The new growth may extend along the wall of the oesophagus for a considerable distance, but more frequently encircles it for a space of from one to five inches.