TUMOES. 357 from the surface of the skin and of the mncons membranes, from the internal surface of the milk-ducts in the mamma, and from the walls of some cysts. They constitute a large part of the growths commonly called polypi. All the fibromata are, as a rule, local growths of a benignant character. II. Myxoma.—Fibro-cellular tumors, colloid. This name is given to tumors which are formed of mucous tissue. Mucous tissue consists of round, fusiform, and stellate cells imbedded in a gelatinous, transpai-ent, mucine-yielding basement substance. It is found in the umbilical cord, in the foetus as the first stage of adipose tissue, and in tlie adult in the vitreous body. The myxomata are tiimors of irregular form, lobulated, hav- ing a peculiar soft, gelatinous, semi-transparent appearance. They are identical in their minute structure with that of normal mucous tissue. Tliey are but seldom found as pure myxomata. It is much more common to find combinations with lipoma, chondroma, fibroma, and sarcoma. These tumors occur most frequently in adult life, but ar,i^ sometimes congenital. They usually grow as isolated tumors, except on the nerves, where they are multiple. They grow slowly ; inay attain a large size; are either inclosed in a fibrous capsTile, or invade the neighboring soft parts. The pure, uncombined myxomata have a merely local signifi- cance, but sometimes recur after extirpation. The combination forms with sarcoma, etc., have, on the other hand, well marked malignant characteristics, recur after extirpation, and form me- tastatic tumors. These tumors occur most frequently in the adipose tissue of the thigh, cheek, nates, hand, labia, mesentery, peritoneum, and pelvis of the kidney. In the female mamma, as intra-canalicu- lar growths; in the parotid gland; in the brain, spinal cord, and nerves; and in the bones, especially the maxillary bones, these tumors are not infrequently observed. The degeneration of the chorion, commonly called the hydatid mole, is classed by "V irchow with these tumors. The umbilicus in children some- times gives rise to these tumors.