191 THE LIVER. that the growth is formed by an interlobular hyperplasia of con- nective tissue, followed by a cavernous metamorphosis. Leukcemic New Groioths are found in the liver in two forms. The organ is increased in size, sometimes very largely. The liver-cells are increased in size and number, so that the acini are larger. (1.) The lymphatic new growth takes the form of an infiltration, which accompanies the portal vein and its branches into the acini. The new growth then forms branched figures of a grayish white color, and of considerable size, or of a fine gray or white tracery, corresponding to different acini. (2.) In other cases, the new growth takes the form of small, rounded, miliary tumors, of a grayish white color. They resem- ble miliary tubercles, but are very soft, almost fluid. Not unfi'equently these two forms are combined in the same liver. The new growth in both cases has the structure of lym- phatic glandular tissue. Adenoma.—Under this name authors describe two distinct varieties of tumor. The first consists in a new growth of liver tissue, the second in a new growth of follicular glandular tissue. 1. The first form occurs as one large or several small tumors, scattered through the liver. The tumors are inclosed in a fibrous capsule, or are continuous with the liver tissue. They are of minute size, or may measure 3 or 4 inches in diameter. They are of a grayish brown color, and of firmer consistence than the surrounding liver tissue. They are composed of cells, resembling the hepatic cells, but sometimes larger, and some- times containing several nuclei. These cells are arranged in acini, like those of the liver, and the vessels and sometimes the bile-ducts of the liver ramify in the larger tumors. 2. The second form of adenoma is composed of follicles or tubules, filled with small polygonal epithelium. The tumors are usually multiple, small or large, inclosed in a fibrous capsule. They may undei'go fatty degeneration, or may suppurate. It is a question whether they are not really epithelial cancers. Tubercle.—In general tuberculosis, the liver is frequently the seat of numerous small, miliary, grayish, transparent granula- tions, which may be too small to be seen with the naked eye. These are found in the capsule and accompanying the vessels.