THE KIDNEYS. 211 pined kidneys, there may be regions where the tubes are collapsed and atrophied. The basement membrane of the tubes may be thickened. The epithelium of the tubes may be slightly swollen and granular; or very granular, broken down, and detached ; or filled with oil globules; or, in the dilated tubes, flattened against the basement membrane. Hyaline cast material, white, yellow, or mixed with broken epithelium, is usually present in the tubes, especially near the apices of the pyramids. The arteries have their walls thickened, their cavities nar- rowed. It is usually impossible to inject them completely. Their Avails may be the seat of waxy degeneration. The veins can usually be completely injected from the renal vein. The ca- pillary venous plexus of the cortex may be dilated. The Malpighian bodies are imchanged ; or they are atrophied, and their capsules thickened; or the tufts are shrunken and impervious; or they are the seat of waxy degeneration. There are usually changes in the intertubular tissue, espe- cially in that of the cortex. We find just beneath the capsule, around the Malpighian bodies, and in other positions, irregular patches of connective tissue-fibres, and small round and oval cells. In the smallest and hardest kidneys, the cells may be as abundant in proportion to the fibrous tissue as in kidneys ap- parently in the early stages of the disease. In the atrophied kidneys of gouty persons, we often find white lines and dots of urate of soda in the j^yramids. Pyelo-nej)hritis. This form of kidney-disease runs an acute course, sometimes of only a few days, and is very fatal. The lesion of the kid- neys alone is sufiicient to destroy life. The causation of this form of nephritis is peculiar, and hard to understand. It is secondary to inflammation of the pelvis, ure- ters, and bladder. But the inflammation may be confined to the bladder, and skip the ureters and pelvis, so that the infec-, tion appears metastatic rather than continuous. Some authors