84 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. bosis of tlie bi'oncliial arteries ; and very often occurs "vvitliont any satisfactory reason. The gangrene may be circumscribed or diffuse. In the circumscribed form we find small nodules, usually near the periphery, changed into a brownish, putrid mass, sharply defined from the surrounding tissue. After a time, the periphery of the nodule becomes fluid, and there is a cavity filled with fluid and gangrenous tissue. The gangrene may ex- tend to the pleura and cause acute pleurisy or hydropneumo- thorax. The gangrenous cavity may communicate with a bronchus and cause bronchitis; or a large vessel may be eroded and the cavity be filled with blood. Sometimes a circumscrib- ed o-ano-rene becomes the centre of a difi"used ganojrene. In rare cases, the cavity may contract and cicatrize. Diflfused gangrene may involve an entire lobe. The lung- tissue will be foimd changed into a moist, stinking mass. The neighboring lung-tissue is oedematous or hepatized, the pleura is infiamed or gangrenous. PULMONARY PHTHISIS. Under this name all physicians are well acquainted with a disease characterized by cough, mucous, purulent, or bloody ex- pectoration, dyspnoea, hectic fever, gi'adual emaciation, and physical signs indicating condensation of the lung tissue, and exudation in the bronchi. The hmgs of persons who have suffered from this disease pre- sent, after death, a variety of lesions. These lesions it is con- venient to group under three heads, according to their most marked an atomical condition, namely. Catarrhal, Fibrous, and Tubercular Phthisis. These . three forms occur either sepa- rately or together. 1. Catarrhal Phthisis.—This form may run a rapid course or one of long duration. It may entirely resolve and leave no trace behind, or may invade and destroy the larger part of the lung tissue. The pathological process consists in a catarrhal infiammation affecting the alveoli and small bronchi. The pneumonia passes through the stages of congestion, red hepati- zation, and gray hepatization. After reaching the stage of gray