THE UTERUS. 237 of tlie cervix are usually produced by chronic inflammation. They may cause an accumulation of blood or mucus, and con- sequent distention of the uterus. JTypertropky of the uterus may occiu- in consequence of too early development. It is accompanied with abnormally early development of all the sexual organs and functions. Heart-disease, prolapse and abnormal flexions and versions of the uterus, chronic inflammation, repeated pregnancies, myo- mata, accumulations of blood or mucus in the uterine cavity, may all produce hypertrophy of the uterus. Hypertrophy of the vaginal portion is produced by the same causes as the above, and also is found without known cause. The hypertrophy consists in a uniform increase of size of one or both lips, or either one or both lips are hypertrophied and irregularly lobulated. There may be, at the same time, reten- tion-cysts formed in the mucous follicles of the cervix. Dilatation of the uterus is produced by accumulations of blood, mucus, or pus, in consequence of narrowing or oblitera- tion of the cervix or vagina. The walls of the uterus may re- tain their normal thickness, be thickened or thinned. The most frequent position of the stenosis is the os internum. The retained mucus and pus, after a time, change their charac- ter, and are replaced by a thin serum—hydrometra, or may be mixed with blood. The dilated uterus is not usually larger than an apple, but cases are recorded of enormous dilatation. If both the OS internum and os externum are closed, the ca- vity of the cervix is also dilated, and the uterus has the shape of an hour-glass. If the obstruction is in the vagina, the uterus and vagina form a large flask-shaped body, and the line of demarcation be- tween the cervix and vagina is lost. In some cases, the dilatation is confined to the cervix. If the obstruction is not complete, the retained fluid may es- cape into the vagina, and afterward accumulate again. HoRmatometra.—Accumulation of menstrual blood in the ca- vity of the uterus is usually produced by congenital stenosis of the cervix or vagina. The dilated uterus may reach an enor- mous size. If the fluid is not evacuated by surgical interference,