POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS, 294 round cells, sometimes of fusiform cells, and frequently contain great numbers of myeloplaxes. The parosteal sarcomata resemble tbe periosteal. They ap- pear to grow from the outer layers of the periosteum or from the adjoining connective tissue. They may be as firmly con- nected with the bone as the periosteal form. The periosteum may remain intact between the tumor and the bone, or it may disappear and leave them in apposition. Osteoid Chondroma.—This form of tumor is foimd usually at the ends of the long bones. The tumors grow between the peri- osteum and the bone, forming sometimes enormous growths. They have a pyriform shape, are not lobulated, are of a smooth, hard consistence, with some calcified portions. Their minute structure is that of bone cartilage, osteoid tissue, a hard, homo- geneous basement substance, in which are imbedded round, fusiform, and stellate cells. Blood-vessels ramify through the tissue, and may be arranged as if in Haversian canals. Tliere is only needed a deposit of tlie salts of lime to convert this tissue into bone, and this change may talce place over a large portion of tlie tumor. Carcinoma.—The subject of true cancer of the bones is, in many respects, very obscure. Of the older tumors described under this name, a very large number are sarcomata. This is especially the case with primary tumors. Secondary and me- tastatic tumors can be more definitely made out. They follow the anatomy of the primary tumors, and may be scirrhus, me- dullary, or epithelial. Epithelial cancer of the lips and uterus not infrequently di- rectly invades the adjoining bones. A peculiar form is the developmennt of metastatic nodules in the bones. The primary disease is iTsiially an atrophic carci- noma of the mamma, and the nodules may be found in nearly every bone in the body. They grow in the medulla in the form of hard, white nodules. The bone near them may simply dis- appear so that fractures occur, or the bone may lose its salts of lime and become soft. In this way, marked curvatures of the long bones may take place.