249 THE UTEEUS. Carcinoma.—The most frequent form of cancer of tlie nterns is classed by different authors either as a true carcinoma, or as an epithelioma or cancroid. So that we find some saying that epithelioma, and othei's that carcinoma, is the more frequent, while both really mean the same growth. This apparent dis- crepancy arises partly from the difierent significations given to the words epithelial and true cancer, and partly from the pecu- liar anatomy of the growth. The distinction between true and epithelial cancer is one which was never very sharply drawn, and now that the epithe- lial character of all cancers is so strongly insisted on, the two classes are being brought more and more nearly together. Tlie anatomy of this form of growth is partly that of the epithelial and partly that of the ti'ue cancers. There is a stroma composed of connective tissue fibres and round cells in variable proportions. This stroma may be abundant or scanty, but is usually well marked. In the stroma are cavities of round, oval, and tubular shape filled with cells. The cells resemble somewhat the epithelium of the vaginal portion of the cervix, but are more ii'regular in shape. They are large, poly- gonal, or rounded, with one or two large nuclei. In rare cases, they have the form of cylindrical epithelium. The cells are sometimes closely packed, and form concentric nests ; in other cases, they merely fill the alveoli. According to the manner in which this new growth invades the uterus, the gross appearances vary. (1.) We find at first, in the vaginal portion of the cervix in the submiicous connective tissue, either nodules or a general infiltration of a whitish new growth. The cervix then appears large and hard. Very soon the mucous membrane over the new growth degenerates and falls off", the superficial layers of the new growth undergo the same changes. After this, the formation of the new growth and its ulceration go on simulta- neously, producing first an infiltration, and then destruction of the cervix, and often of a part of the body of the uterus. The growth frequently extends to the vagina, the bladder, and rec- tum with the same destructive character, so that we often find the cervix and upper part of the vagina destroyed, and in their