169 THE PERITONEUM. In tlie pelvis of the kidneys, new growths of mucous tissue are found, which project inward into the abdominal cavity. Such tumors, however, are usually combinations of myxoma and sarcoma. Sarcoma appears in the form of solitary, slowly-growing tu- mors behind the peritoneum, or between the folds of the mesen- tery. Tliey may reach a large size, and by their pressure on the A^eins and the intestines, cause thrombosis of the large veins and obstruction of the intestines. They may give rise to metastatic tumors of the peritoneum and of the viscera. In the peritoneum itself, especially in the omentum, the me- sentery and the appendices epiploicse sarcomata are found both as primary and secondary tumors. They are frequently very vascular. Carcinoma of the peritoneum is either primary or secondary. It assumes the form of colloid or of true carcinoma, either hard or soft. The colloid form, when primary, involves the greater part of the peritoneum, and forms a large mass which distends the ab- domen. The omentum is changed into a large gelatinous mass; the subjacent muscles, the lympliatic glands, and the liver are infiltrated with the new growth, and soft gelatinous masses pro- ject into the peritoneal cavity. The iimbilicus is sometimes in- vaded, so as to project outward in the foi'm of a semi-translu- cent tumor. The appearance of the new growth is that of a soft, jelly-like mass, imbedded in a fibrous stroma. The minute structure consists of fibrous alveoli, containing epithelial cells, and a homogeneous, transparent, gelatinous substauQe. Wlien the disease is far advanced, no cells are to be found. When the new growth is secondary, it appears in the form of numerous little nodules on the free surface of the peritoneum. True carcinoma is either primary or secondary. It usually appears in the form of numerous small nodules in the intestinal and parietal peritoneum. These nodules are small, firm, and white. They are often united by a flat layer of the same new growth, so that the peritoneum is changed into a uniform, thick, white membrane. Less frequently, carcinoma appears as soli- tary, soft, medullary growths.