POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 308 takes place when tlie obstructed artery is a small one, and is terminal, that is, has no arterial anastomoses beyond the situa- tion of the embolus. These h^emorrhagic infarctions are seen in the lungs, spleen, kidneys, brain, eye, and alimentary canal. (4.) Abscesses are produced. This takes place when the em- bolus is of a gangrenous and irritative nature. Large abscesses are only found in the lungs and liver. Minute abscesses are found in other organs, and are probably produced by capillary emboli. The manner in which infarctions are produced has recently been studied afresh by Cohnheim. He has introduced little globules of wax into the circulation of frogs, and observed, un- der the microscope, the changes which take place when these little emboli become lodged in the branches of the lingual artery. If the plug is lodged in a terminal artery, the artery beyond the plug, the corresponding set of capillaries, and the vein, are filled with stationary blood, or are partly empty. After a time, the vein belonging to this system of capillaries receives a backward current of blood, beginning from the larger vein, into which it empties, this larger vein being supplied by unobstructed arte- ries. The backward flow of blood continues until the vein, capillaries, and artery are filled and distended. Up to this point the mechanism of the changes is clear. Tlie next step in the process is more difficult to explain. There is an escape of blood from the congested vessels, so that the tissue is infiltrat- ed with blood. This can hardly be accounted for by the mere backward current of blood, for the pressure can be no greater in the congested vessels than in any other part of the venous system. Cohnheim explains the extravasation of blood by a change in the walls of the congested vessels. He found tluvt, if ligatures were applied for a short time to terminal arteries, as in the frog's tongue, the rabbit's ear, the kidney and intestines, so that the system of vessels was for a time emptied of blood, and the ligature then removed, so that the blood could return, the result was an extravasation of blood, resembling an infarc- tion. No changes could be detected in the walls of the vessels, and he assumes that the temporary withch'awal of blood from