120 POST-MORTEM EXAMIXATIONS, splenic artery and vena azygos; the internal carotid and sinus cavernosus. Even in the cases of perforation by aortic anen- risms, life is usually prolonged for some time. (6.) Destructive inflammation of the sim-ounding tissues may invade and destroy a portion of the wall of an artery. Tlius ul- ceration of the trachea, bronchi, bronchial glands and oesopha-. gus, may perforate the aorta ; gangrene of the lungs, the pul- monary arteries ; ulcer of the stomach, the gastric arteries, etc. INFLAMMATION. The walls of arteries are composed of three layers—the inner, middle, and outer coats. The inner coat, or tunica intima, con- sists of three laj-ei's: an inner layer of flat, thin, fusiform, or polygonal endothelium ; a middle layer consisting of a finely granular basement substance traversed by fibres, and containing numerous fusiform and stellate cells ; an outer layer composed in the smaller arteries of an elastic network ; ,in the larger ar- teries, of one or more layers of an elastic, homogeneous fenes- trated membrane. The middle coat, or tunica media, is composed of involuntary muscular fibres, mostly running aroimd the vessel, but some in its long axis ; and of a variable amount of fibrous tissue, elastic tissue, and fenestrated membranes. The outer coat, or tunica adventitia, consists of fibrous tis- sue and a network of elastic fibres. The vasa vasorum or nutrient vessels of the arterial wall are distributed principally in the external coat, scantily in the middle coat. Inflammation of an artery attacks principally the outer coat —Periarteriitis—or the inner coat—Endartcriitis. Periarteriltis is not very common. It occurs in tlie larger arteries and is usually a secondary lesion. It is caused by in- juries, by inflammation of the surrounding tissues, and by throm- bosis or embolism. The outer and middle coats of the inflamed artery are congested and infiltrated, and thickened with a soft, grayish, structureless material. The cavity of tlie vessel is at first narrowed, afterward enlarged. At a later period, we find