POST-MORTEM EXAMUvATIONS. 52 THE BRAIK. MALFOEMATIONS. Cyclopia.—This malformation consists in an arrest of de- velopment affecting tlie cerebrum, Avliich, instead of separating into two hemispheres, remains single, and the rudiments of the eyes become joined and form one eye. This single eye is in the middle of the face at the root of the nose, in a single orbit. Over this is an irregular body representing the nose. The rest of the face is well formed. Or the eye-ball may be wanting entirely, or there are two eyes joined together, or, more seldom, two separate eyes. The orbit is surrounded by rudiments of four eye-lids. The frontal bone is single, the nasal bones undeveloped, the ethmoid, vomer, and turbinated bones are absent. The optic nerve is double, single, or absent. There may be hydrocephalus. Such children are incapable of any prolonged existence, Anencejphalia.—This malformation may be of various de- grees. The brain may be entirely absent, and the base of the cranium is covered with a thick membrane, into which tlie nerves pass. Or, the membranes may Ibrm a sort of cyst con- taining blood and serum, or portions of brain. Of the cranial bones, only those which form the base of the skull are present. The foetus cannot live. Hydrencephalocele.—(1.) The cranial bones are incompletely'^ developed. The cranium is flattened or concave from above downward. The brain is incomplete, or hydrocephalic, or replaced by a bloodj'^, spongy mass, or by a sac of serum. It .escapes from the cranial cavity by an opening in the cranium, .usually lies on the neck, and may or may not be covered M'ith skin. The foetus is not viable. (2.) The cranial bones are well developed, as is also the brain. At some point in the cranial bones, at the root of the nose, tlie occiput, on the sides of the skull, in the sagittal suture, or at the base, there is an opening through which escapes a sac coni- rposed of the membranes of the brain, inclosing serum or brain •.tissue. Or a portion of brain alone may protrude, covered by its membranes and the skin. These tumors may be small, or