MEtHQO OF EXAMIKATIOJT, 5 If tlie eyelids are not closed, the conjunctiva and cornea soon become dry, brown, and hard. The eyeballs also become flaccid. After a considerable length of time, the skin of the abdomen becomes green. Still later, decomposition fairly sets in. The entire body is of a dark green color. The tissnes are infilti-ated with serum. Tlie abdomen is distended with gas. Then the color changes from a green to a reddish brown. The epidermis is detached. The skin is covered with maggots. The entire body is swollen from the formation of gases. The face can hardly be recognized. The nails drop off, and the scalp becomes detached. When a body is in this condition, it can hardly be determined Avhether one month or five months have elapsed since death. After this, all the soft parts change into a formless, putrescent mass. The cavities are open, the viscera are indistinguishable, the bones are left bare. The rapidity with which these changes take place varies under the influence of a great number of conditions. The bodies of infants usually decompose more rapidly than those of adults. Fat bodies putrefy more quickly than lean ones. The bodies of persons who die suddenly from violence decom- pose less rapidly than the average, unless the body is a good deal mangled. Exhausting diseases, fevers, and the puerperal con- dition are followed by rapid decomposition, as is also death from suffocating gases. Poisoning by alcohol, by arsenic, and by sulphuric acid may preserve the bodies for an unusual length of time. Atmospheric air, moisture, and warmth quicken decom- position. At the same temperature, a body which has been for one week in the air, one which has been two weeks in water, and one which has been eight weeks buried in the usual way, will all exhibit the same d^gi'ee of decomposition. The Rigor Mortis.—It is proper to notice whether or not the body is in the condition of post-mortem rigidity. More atten- tion has, perhaps, been given to this particular post-mortem condition than it well deserves. According to Kiihne, the rigor mortis is produced by a change in the nauscular fibres. The fibres first lose their contractility,