173 THE LIVEK. times, being regularly increased during the process of digestion. When the digestive process is imtated by the ingestion of spirits, spices, etc., the hyperjEmia assumes abnormal proportions, and, when often repeated, leads to structural changes in the organ. Severe contusions over the region of the liver sometimes cause a hypersemia, which may result in suppurative or in in- durative inflammation. In hot climates and in malarious districts, active and chronic hyperjEmia of the liver are frequent, and often cause structural lesions. In scurvy, also, the liver is sometimes congested. Cessation and suppression of the menses, and of hsemorrhoidal bleeding, may cause hypersemia of the liver. In all these varieties of active congestion, the liver is enlarged, of a deep red color, and blood flows freely from its cut surface. The passive congestions of the liver are produced by some ob- struction to the current of blood in the hepatic veins. Yalvular diseases of the heart, emphysema, and fibroids induration of the lungs, large pleuritic eff'usions, intra-thoracic tumors, angular curvature of the spine, aortic aneurisms pressing on the vena cava, and constrictions of the vena cava and of the hepatic veins, may all produce a chronic hypersemia of the liver. In all these cases, as the congestion affects principally the hepatic veins, we find the centime of each acinus congested and red, while its peri- phery is lighter colored. This gives to the liver a mottled or nutmeg appearance. The liver-cells in the centre of each aci- nus are frequently colored by little granules of red or black pig- ment, and the cells at the periphery become fatty, so that the nutmeg appearance is still more pronounced. A liver in this condition is visually of medium size, hnt may be smaller or larger than normal. When the congestion is long continued, the veins at tlie cen- tre, of each acinus may become dilated, the hepatic cells in their meshes become atrophied, so that the centre of each acinus con- sists only of dilated capillaries and new connective tissue. The liver then becomes small, and has a finely granular appearance. But I have seen the liver enlarored while these changes existed. In other cases, the obstruction of the hepatic veins does not produce the irregular nutmeg congestion. The entire organ is