POST-MOETEM EXAMINATION'S. 360 wiiich grow from the bones are usually called exostoses, or, if they arise from the medullary cavity, enostoses. The exostoses are developed from the periosteum, and may occur on any of the bones. On the long bones, near the insertions of the tendons, exos- toses sometimes occur, which resemble the epiphyses. These exostoses grow out in a lateral direction, are formed of cancel- lous bone containing medulla, are covered by a thin layer of cartilage, and may even be surrounded by a synovial sac. The name of Exostosis cartilaginea has been given to them. In the soft parts, osteomata are less frequent. They are found near to, but not connected with the bones. As small tumors of little significance, they are met with in the connec- tive tissue in different parts of the body. YII. Myoma.—This name is given to those tumors which are composed principally of muscular tissue. Such tumors may be composed either of voluntary or of or- ganic muscular fibres. The two varieties are called respectively Myoma striocellulare, and Myoma leevicellulare. Myoma Striocellulare.—These tumors are of very rare occur- rence. They have only been observed in the heart. Here they occur in the ventricular walls as single or multiple tumors. Such tumors have been observed three times in new-born children, and once in an adult. A new growth of striated muscle in composite tumors, especially in the testicle, is more frequent. Myoma Lcevicellulare.—This form of myoma is, on the other hand, very common. The tissue resembles that of organic mus- cle, long fusiform-cells running in parallel bundles, and mixed with a variable amount of connective tissue. The muscular cells may be very abundant, and the tumor be soft, of a loose, areolar texture and pinkish color ; or the fibrous element may be in excess, and the tumor be of a stony hardness, compact and white. These tumors may imdergo calcification ; portions may soften and break down so as to form cystoid cavities; serum may ac- cumulate in the soft, areolar varieties so as to form cysts; por- tions may become gangrenous ; fatty degeneration may occur;