POST-MOETEM EXAMINATIONS. 20 walls does not form a continuous coat, but appears like irregular white patches, visible from the internal surface of the bronchi. This appearance must not be mistaken for a morbid change. In bodies which have been dead for several days, especially in cold weather, the bronchial mucous membrane may be red and swollen as a post-mortem change. The contents of the stomach sometimes find their way after death into the pharynx, and then down into the trachea and bronchi, giving to them a peculiar brownish or even gangrenous appearance. Bronchitis which has existed during life does not always leave lesions which can be appreciated after death. After the examination of the bronchi, the lung is turned over, the vessels, etc., at its root grasped with the left hand, and a long, deep incision made from the apex to the base. "We observe the appearance and texture of the lungs, whether the air-cells are dilated, (emphysematous,) or filled with serum, blood, or inflammatory exudation. All fluids can be pressed out of the air-cells without breaking down the lung tissue. Solid inflammatory exudation, on the other hand, renders the lung more resistant and easily broken down. It is the rule to find the lower lobes much more congested than the upper. To examine the lungs microscopically, we make sections ot the fresh lung with a double-bladed knife; or small pieces of the lung are placed in alcohol, (95 per cent,) and kept there, changing the alcohol from time to time, until they are hard enough to be cut with a razor. The Pharynx^ Larynx, and (Esophagus.—If these organs are to be examined, we prolong the incision in the thorax to a point one inch below the chin. The soft parts are dissected ofi" from the larynx, taking care not to cut the thyroid body, an incision is made through the floor of the mouth, following the internal surface of the inferior maxilla. Thi'ough this incision, the fingers are introduced into the mouth, the tongue drawn down, the posterior wall of the pharynx divided above the tonsils, and the pharynx and larynx thus drawn out together. These or- gans are then seized with the left hand and dragged downward, .and, with the aid of the knife, the entire length of the trachea