POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 298 The ends of tlie bones are found in a condition of caries, ne- crosis, sclerosis, fatty atrophy, or overlaid witli osteophytes. The disease always runs a very chronic course and may de- stroy the patient's life. If recovery takes place before the car- tilages and bones are involved, the joint is preserved; but is stiftened, or even immovable, from the contraction of the new fibrous tissue around it. If the cartilages and bones are diseas- ed, the joint is desti'oyed, and either bony or fibrous anchylosis results. Sometimes from the change in the articulating surfaces, and tlie contraction of the muscles and the new fibrous tissue, partial or complete dislocations are produced. Arthritis Deformans^ Malum Senile Articxdorum., Chronic Mhetimatic Arthritis, Rheumatic Gout.—These names have been given to a species of chronic inflammation of the joints, producing, not destruction, but deformity. It occurs in elder- ly persons, and attacks one or several joints. It is idiopathic, or due to rheumatism, to injuries, or follows an acute artliritis. The capsules of the affected joints are tliickened and scle- rosed. The synovial fluid is at first increased in quantity ; later, diminished and thickened. The tufts of the synovial mem- brane become much enlarged and vascular; they may be con- verted into cartilage. Sometimes the capsule becomes ossified. The new bone grows from the edge of the cartilage within the capsule. Its articular surface is covered with cartilage. The articular cartilages are much changed. The basement substance splits into tufts, while the cartilage-cells are increased in number. Or the basement substance becomes fibrous; or it is split into lamella? and the cartilage-cells multiplied; or there is fatty degeneration and atrophy. As a result of these clianges, larger or smaller portions of the cartilage are destroyed, and the bone beneath is laid bare. The exposed bone becomes com- pact and of an ivory smoothness. The ends of the bones are much deformed. They are flat- tened and made broader by irregular new growths of bone, while at the same time they atrophy. The new growth of bone starts from the articular cartilages. The cartilage-cells increase in number, and the basement sub- stance in quantity. This growtii is most excessive at the edge