DEATH FEOM DEOWNING. 337 The face, scalp, and neck are of a bluish, livid color, which soon changes to a red. The red next becomes mottled with greenish spots. The greenish spots become larger, and the dis- coloration extends down on to the thorax. The head and neck are swollen, the eyelids, nose, and lips project, extravasated blood, either fluid or coagulated, is found in the subcutaneous tissue. In this decomposed and softened condition, it is often very difficult to distinguish between the effects of ante-mortem violence and those of post-mortem putrefaction. Later the scalp is detached from the bones. The entire body is black and enormously swollen; the nails drop off; the joints are se- parated ; the muscles are saponified; the cavities of the abdo- men, thorax, and head are open. Internal Examination. Persons who have been drowned usually die from asphyxia. Sometimes, however, they die in some unknown way, without any evidence of asphyxia. These latter cases are said to die from syncope, or from neuro-paralysis. The lesions are corre- spondingly different. The Bravn.—Congestion of the brain and its membranes is only found in a small proportion of cases. Extravasation of blood has only been observed in a very few cases. The Air-Passages.—In persons who die from asphyxia the mucous membrane of the larynx, trachea, and bronchi is usu- ally congested, the mucous glands are distended and appear like little vesicles, a quantity of frothy blood and mucous fills the air-passages. In those who die from syncope, these appearances are absent. Foreign substances from the water, and matters regurgitated from the stomach, may find their way into the air-passages during the act of drowning, or as a post-mortem occm-rence. The Ltmgs usually are much increased in size, so that they entirely fill the thorax and cover the heart. The increased size is due partly to the distention of the air-vesicles with air, and partly to the presence of the fluid in which the person was drowned, The fluid is inspired in the act of drowning. The 22