233 THE VAGINA. hypertrophy and lengthening of the cervix alone drags down the vagina. Hernia vesico-vaginalis, Cystocele, may be either the cause or effect of a prolapse of the vagina and nterus. If the cystocele is the primary lesion, it begins as a small pro- jection of the wall of the bladder into the anterior part of the vagina. As the urine accumulates in this sac, it increases in size, projects through the vulva, draws down the vagina and the anterior lip of the cervix, finally the entire uterus. If the cystocele is the secondary lesion, it is simply produced by the dragging down of the posterior wall of the bladder by the inverted vagina. Hernia intestino-vaginalis.—A portion of the intestines may become fixed in Douglas's cul de sac between the rectum and uterus. This portion of intestine gradually becomes larger, pushes forward the posterior wall of the vagina, inverts and fills up that canal, and, finally, projects through the vulva. It may drag with it the posterior wall of the vagina and the uterus. Hectocele vaginalis.'—A sac is formed by the projection of the anterior wall of the rectum and the posterior wall of the vagina. This lesion is of rare occurrence, and does not reach a large size. WOUNDS. PEEFOKATIONS. Wounds of the vagina are made by penetrating instruments, by forceps and other obstetrical weapons, and by the foetus dur- ing delivery. Such wounds may heal; may give rise to large haemorrhages; may suppurate ; may produce abscesses in the sur- rounding tissues ; may leave fistulous openings into the vagina ; or may cause constriction or obliteration of its canal. Vesico-vaginal fistulse are usually produced by injuries from instruments or from the foetus during delivery ; less freqi;ently by ulceration of the vagina, bladder, or adjacent connective tissue. The fistulfe form an opening between either the bladder or the Tirethra and the vagina. They allow the urine to pass into the vagina. Spontaneous cure does not take place. Recto-vaginal fistula3 are formed in the same way as the last