17 METHOD OF EXAMINATION. to be noticed. A small amount of clear serum exists normally in the pericardial sac, ^nd this serum may be blood-stained from commencing decomposition. White thickenings of the pericardium on the anterior surface of the right ventricle are often seen ; they do not indicate disease. Now that the pericardial sac is opened, the position of the heart can be clearly seen. It lies transversely in the chest, its long axis at an angle of 60° with that of the thorax. The por- tion of the heart which is first seen is the anterior surface of the right ventricle; upward and to the right of this is the right auricle, which lies f on the right side of the sternum, and -J- be- hind it. Its upper border usually corresponds with the plane of the middle of the anterior end of the second intercostal space on the right side. Its size varies with the amount of blood it happens to contain. The left auricle lies behind the root of the pulmonary artei'y, so that only its appendix is visible. The middle of the auricle corresponds to the third costal cartilage. Of the left ventricle only a narrow rim is seen on the left side of the right ventricle. The opening of the tricuspid valve corresponds to the sternal end of the fourth cartilage, behind the left half of the sternum. The pulmonary valve is behind the left edge of the sternum, at the middle of the anterior end of the second intercostal space. , The mitral valve is just above the upper edge of the third left cartilage, near the left edge of the sternum, behind and be- low the edges of the pulmonary valves. The aortic valve is just below the sternal end of the third left cartilage. The heart should now be removed unopened, by cutting through the vessels at its base, after first passing the hand over the arch of the aorta to ascertain whether any aneurism is pre- sent. To determine the sufiiciency of the aortic and pulmonary valves, a full stream of water is poured into the aorta and pul- monary artery, and we observe how well the valves support the column of fluid. To ascertain the sufiiciency of the mitral and tricuspid valves, the auricles are first laid open so as to expose the upper surfaces of the valves. A large pipe is passed through the aorta or pulmonary artery beyond their valves, and 2