355 TUMOES. The Mxicous Cysts are formed by the dilatation of mucous glands. They may be single, or composite from the dilatation of several follicles. They may project so as to form a sort of polypus. They are found in the mucous membrane of the mouth, pharynx, nose, antrum, cervix uteri, vagina, and alimen- tary .canal. The retention cysts of larger canals are formed by dilatation of the ducts of the salivary glands, the pancreas, the mamma, the tubes of the kidney, etc. (2.) The cysts of new formation. (a.) Cysts produced by softening. Portions of solid tissue, either normal or pathological, may become softened and fluid, and in this way cysts be form- ed. Thus we find cysts full of fluid fat in fatty tumors ; cysts full of mucus or serum in fibromata, chondromata, and myoma- ta. In the sarcomata and carcinomata, this process is especially common. The most common ways in which the process takes place are by mucous degeneration of the tissue, or by a sort of circumscribed oedema. With these cysts may also be classed those formed in the tliyroid gland, and in adenomata of the ovaries by a colloid de- generation of the cells lining the gland follicles. (b.) Cysts, properly speaking, cystoma. These cysts may be produced by the irritation of extravasated blood, or of a foreign body. Or continued pressure on some part induces irritation and an accumulation of serum. Thus are formed the false bursas under corns, etc. Or cysts are formed as new growths in connective tissue in methods which are yet unknown to us. It is probable that some cysts are formed by dilatation of the lymphatic vessels. (3.) Dermoid Cysts.—In these cysts, the internal surface of the cyst-wall has the same structure as the skin. "We find in the cyst-wall hair and sebaceous follicles, sweat-glands, papillae, and an internal covering of epithelium. The cysts contain a gru- mous fluid in which are epithelium, fat, cholesterine, hair, teeth, cartilage, and bone. It is now generally held that these cysts are formed before