149 THE INTESTINES, Cloacae consist in the union of tlie rectum, bladder, and or- gans of generation in a common outlet. " (1.) Simple Gloacm are : (a.) Complete, and consist in the common opening of the urethra or ureters, the vagina and the rectum into the closed bladder, or into a sinus opening outward, which represents either the vagina or rectum, (b.) Incomplete, The rectum opens into the vagina, the bladder, or the urethra, while the lower part of the rectum is closed or absent. (2,) CloaccB combined with cleft hladder. (a.) The simple cleavage of the intestines is combined with cleft bladder. The anterior abdominal wall from the umbilicus to the symphysis, the symphysis, and the anterior wall of the bladder are absent; the gap is filled with a membrane which represents the pos- terior wall of the bladder. Into this membrane open the ileum, ureters, and vagina, (b.) The intestine is perfectly formed, but the rectum opens into a common sinus with the ureters and va- gina ; or the iireters open into the cleft bladder, and the rectum and external genitals are united ; or the xn-eters open into the rectum, and the latter terminates normally. (3.) Cloacae, combined with abdominal hernia. There is a hernial sac containing all the abdominal viscera. At the lower end of the sac is an opening leading into a sinus in which open the lower end of the ileum, the bladder or urethra, and the. ureters. The rectum is absent. Atresia Ani consists in a deficient development of the colon or rectum. The entire colon may be absent; the rectum may be absent, or represented by a solid cord ; or the upper or lower part of the colon may be absent, or sepai-ated by a solid cord. More rarely, blind terminations of the small intestines are found, and sometimes narrowing so complete as to close the canal. The intestines are also found abnormally shortened in vari- ous degrees. CHANGES IN POSFflON. Hernia. The abdominal viscera may escape from the abdominal cavity through openings formed by arrest of development, or through