44 POST-MOKTEM EXAMINATIONS. The tlirombi may cause meningitis, small apoplexies, ence- phalitis, and multiple pyaemic infarctions. Or a thrombus may be found in the veiii after death, which has apparently produced no lesions. I have seen a case in which a young female domestic, with- out any known cause, suddenly became unconscious, comatose, her right arm and leg paralyzed ; her pulse rose to 140, her tem- perature to 103|- F., and she died on the ninth day. At the au- topsy the straight sinus of the tentorium was found filled with a large, white thrombus, which extended through all the branches given off from the corpora striata and optic thalami. The up- per portion of both corpora striata, of the left optic thalamus, and of the fornix, were in the condition of red softening. There were no other lesions throughout the entire body. Inflammation.—Pachymeningitis may involve either the ex- ternal or internal layers of the Dura Mater, Inflammation of the external layers is secondary to injuries or diseases of the cranial bones. Fractures of the skull, either depressed or not, osteitis, caries, chronic otitis, and even external periostitis may produce it. The dura mater is congested, thickened, softened, and ecchymotic. The inflammation may go on to form pus between the membrane and the bone and in the substance of the membrane, sometimes accompanied with thrombosis of the neighboring venous sinuses, sometimes with gangrene of the dura mater. Such inflammations may extend to the pia mater and brain, or, the inflammation may merely produce fibrous thickening, with or without pigmentation of the Dura Mater and adhesions to the skull. Inflammation of the internal layers of the Dura Mater occurs as a complication of pyaemia, puerperal fever, chronic nephritis, and the exanthemata. The inner surface of the menabrane ap- pears streaked with delicate vessels, is of a rosy color, and is lined with a layer of exudation, which is either delicate, grayish, and soft, like mucus, or more consistent and membranous, or yellow, loose, and piiriform There is also a primary form of inflammation of the internal layer of the dura mater, called Pacchymeningitis chronica hie- morrhagica. In this form there is found, loosely adherent to