83 THE LUNGS. lungs; sometimes only a few alveoli. There is always capil- lary bronchitis ; and the small bronchi are filled with pus. There may also be peribronchitis. In children under five years old, pneumonia as a rule is of the catarrhal variety. The pneumonia around pyggmic infarc- tions, in pigment induration, and in phthisis, is usually also catarrhal. The attempt to class this form of inflammation of the lung with the catarrhal inflammations of mucous membranes is not altogether satisfactory. The alveoli of the lungs are not lined with a mucous membrane, nor does their inflammation ever have a true catarrhal character. All sorts of gradations, also, can be found between the croupous and so-called catarrhal exu- dations. The name is used, therefore, not as a good one, but for want of a better. 3. Hypostatic Pneumonia.—In persons who have been for a long time confined to bed by severe and protracted illness, we often find the lungs, especially the lower lobes, congested and cedematous. A careful examination will often discover, also, small, irregular patches of red hepatization. In these patches, the alveoli are filled almost entirely with lymphoid cells, hardly any fibrine being present. 4. Interstitial Pneumonia.—An increase of connective tis- sue fibres and cells is often seen in circumscribed portions of the lung, especially at the apex, either as the result of a lobular pneumonia or as a simple induration. With chronic bronchitis, emphysema, anthacosis, around al scesses, in syphilis, and with extensire pleuritic adhesions, it also occurs. Its most marked forms, however, occur in phthisis, and will be described with that disease. In rare cases, there is suppurative inflammation of the inter- stitial tissue, forming thin layers of pus between the lobules of the lung, with abscesses beneath the pleura. GANGRENE OF THE LUNGS. Portions of the lungs may not only die, but may also under- go decomposition and become putrid. Such a gangrenous pro- cess may be caused by infarctions, by pneumonia, with, throm-