POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 138 ante-mortem disease with regular symptoms. Some distinguisli an ante-mortem and a cadaveric softening, but acknowledge tliat it is not easy to distinguish between the two after death. Others hold that the process is entirely a post-mortem one, but are divided as to Avhether the softening is produced by the gas- tric juice or is a mere putrefactive change induced by the pre- sence of food in the stomach. All these points can hardly even now be said to be settled. The weight of evidence, however, seems to be in favor of the post-mortem and putrefactive na- ture of the softening. INJURIES. Perforating wounds of the stomach cause, as a rule, fatal peritonitis. In rare cases, however, the patient recovers with a gastric fistula, or even with complete closure of the wound. Rupture of the stomach is sometimes caused b}^ severe blows and falls. All the coats of the organ are torn through, or they are separated from each other by extravasated blood. Cases of spontaneous rupture of the stomach from over-dis- tension with food have been reported. Most, if not all, of them were probably really perforating ulcers. II^MOEKHAGE. An effusion of blood may take place in the cavity, or in the walls of the stomach. The blood may come from the mouth, oesophagus, or trachea, and be swallowed. Or it comes from the vessels in the wall of the stomach. The most frequent causes are: ulcers ; cancer; obstruction to the current of venous blood from diseases of tlic liver, heart, and lungs ; poisons and foreign bodies; dyscrasia\ as scurvy, yellow and relapsing fever; inllammatiou of the stomach ; and vicarious h;i3inorrliages. When the haemorrhages are in the cavity of the stomach, the organ is found to contain blood, either in clots or mixed with food, and converted into a black, grunious fluid. 'Not infre- quently, however, the blood is vomited during life, or passes into the intestines, and the stomach is left empty. When the blood escapes from large vessels destroyed by