POST-MORTEII EXAMIXATIOKS. 50 PatJwlogical Accumulations of Serum are : (1.) Congenital Ilydrocejyhalus.—The highest degrees of this form will be considered with, the malformations. The lesser decrees commence as a moderate effusion of serum into the ventricles, which increases to a greater or less extent, and for a variable time after the child's birtli. In these cases, Ave find all the ventricles of the brain dilated and filled with clear serum. The brain substance forms a thin shell around these safes of fiuid. The ependyma of the ventricles is either smooth or thickened. (2.) The serum accumulates after birtli, usually in badly- nourished children. The effusion may take place rapidly, with febrile symptoms. The serum is in variable amount, and clear; the walls of the ventricles, and sometimes the brain, are oedematous and soften- ed ; the pia mater shows no evidence of inflammation. Such an effusion of serum may be fatal, or may be absorbed, or may take on a chronic character. (3.) The effusion may be caiised by acute or chronic hyperaj- mia of the brain and its membranes. It may occur at any age. It has been ascribed to excessive bodily and mental exertion, alcoholism, tumors of the brain, obstruction of the venous sinuses and jugular veins, and to heart and lung diseases. The accumulation of serum is usually gradual, though the patient may at the last die suddenly. Such cases have been called serous apoplexy. Atrophy of the brain is usually accompanied by a serous effusion in the ventricles. The accumulation of serum in all the cases mentioned occurs equally in both ventricles. In rare cases, however, the effusion is confined to one lateral ventricle, or to the third ventricle, or to one of the cornua of a lateral ventricle. The dilated por- tion of the ventricle may then look like a cyst with a narrow opening. Jloimorrhages into the ventricles take place when apoplexies of the brain substance break through into these cavities. Inflammation of the Choroid Plexus and Ependyma is usually secondary to a meningitis, but may be primary. Tlie ventri-