45 THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. tlie internal surfoce of the dura mater, a thin membrane, grayish with red dots, looking like coagulated fibi'ine. This is com- posed of a homogeneous basement substance containing con- nective tissue-cells and a great number of capillary vessels, witli numerous small haemorrhages. In a more advanced stage this new membrane may become enormously thickened, its outer layers change into fibrous tissue, and the haemorrhages in its substance may attain such a size as seriously to compress the brain, and even cause death. Yery rarely serum accumulates between the layers of new membranes, and in this way cysts of large size can be formed. In rare cases, diffuse suppuration of the entire new membrane has been observed. The slighter degrees of this form of inflammation may occasion no symp- toms during life. The more advanced lesions xisually occur in idiots, epileptics, etc. NEW GROWTHS. Cysts of the Dura Mater have only been described in a few rare instances. Fihromata^ also, are very seldom met with. Osteoma.—New formation of bone may occur either in the inner or outer layers of the Dura Mater. In the inner layers it occurs in the form of plates, or, more I'arely, globular tumors, most frequently in tlie falx, but also in other situations. These l^lates usually cause no symptoms during life. Bony growths in the outer layers are of irregular sliape, and often become continuous with the neighboring bones. Lvpomata have been observed in the form of small globular tumors attached to the inner surface of the dura mater. Syphilitio Grovjths (Gummata) are of very various sizes and shapes. They are usually firm, partly of a gray semi-transpa- rent color, partly yellow and cheesy. They grow either from the outer layers of the Dura Mater, and may then cause thinning, erosion, osteo-myelitis, caries, and necrosis of the bones; or from the inner layers, and invade the brain, causing secondary tumors and inflammation of the pia mater and brain. Psammoma.—Under this name Yirchow has described a f orni