THE INTESTINES. 151 (b.) Acquired.—The intestine covered by a sac of peritoneum projects into a sac formed by the skin at the mnbilicus. This ' hernia occurs in young infants when the navel is not firmly ci- catrized ; in adults, when there has been a small hernia in in- fancy ; and when the navel has been dilated by pregnancy, etc. (■1.) Hernia 'centralis.—There may be hernise of the abdomi- nal wall in the median line or to one side of it. The intestine may project through some defect in the fasciae, or there may be thinning and pouching of all the coats of the abdomen at some point. (5.) Hernia ischiadica.—The intestine, covered by a sac of peritoneum, passes along the course of tlie sciatic nerve througli the sacro-sciatic foramen under the gluteus maximus muscle. It is very rare. (6.) Hernia foraminis ovalis.—The intestine, covered by a sac of peritoneum, passes on tlie inner side of the obtm'ator ves- sels through the obturator foramen. (7.) Hernia perincBalis.—The intestine, covered by peritone- um, passes between the fibres of the levator ani muscle and pro- jects into the space between the rectum, the tuberosity of the ischiiim, and the point of the sacrum. (8.) Hernia vaginalis.—The intestine, covered by peritoneum, passes downward between the rectum and vagina, and presses the posterior wall of the vagina outward through the vulva. If the hernia is large, the wall of the vagina drags down the posterior lip of the cervix and the body of the litems. (9.) Hernia rectalis.—The hernia takes place between the bladder or vagina and the rectxun. The Avail of the rectum may then be pressed outward through the anus. (10.) Hernia diaphragmatica. (a.) Congenital.—This is produced by defective development of the diaphragm, which may be partly or entirely wanting on one side. Part of the intestines or most of the abdominal vis- cera may thus pass into a pleuritic cavity. They are covered by a sac formed of peritoneum and pleura, or are without any sac. Or the diaphragm is complete, but part of it is pouched into the pleural cavity. In rare instances, persons with this lesion reach adult life.