THE LUNGS. * 85 hepatization, the exudation undergoes a process of dry degenera- tion, converting it into a firm, dry, cheesy mass. This mass is usually of an opaque, yellow color, less frequently of a peculiar gray. The lung tissue is then said to be in a condition of cheesy hepatization. The portions of lung which pass into this condition of cheesy hepatization vary much in size. A large part of a lobe may be hepatized throughout; or there are large yellow lobules, the size of a hen's egg, scattered through the lungs; or there are great numbers of small yellow nodules, from the size of a pin's head to that of a pea, thickly studding the lung, often aggregated together, the li;ng tissue between them either anaemic, or normal, or congested, or hepatized. The larger masses are the infiltrated tubercles; the smaller, the miliary tubercles of Laennec. In all of them the lesion is the same: the alveoli and small bronchi are filled with exudation which has undergone cheesy degeneration. In the larger lobules, a great number of alveoli are thus filled i;p ; in the miliary no- dules, only a few alveoli or a small bronchus are hepatized. In the lungs of children, we find a form of miliary hepatiza- tion in which a small bronchus or a few alveoli are filled with cheesy matter, and there is at the same time a production of round and fusiform cells in the wall of the bronchus or of the alveoli. After the stage of cheesy hepatization, whether lobular or miliary, is reached, four different events may follow. The ex- udation in the alveoli may take xip sufficient serum to become fluid, be coughed out, and the lung resumes its normal character. Or, if the hepatization is of small amount, it remains quiescent, shrinks, becomes calcareous, and a fibrous capsule forms around it. Or, the exudation softens, and at the same time the walls of the alveoli, having lost their vitality, degenerate and disinte- grate, and in this way are formed cavities with ragged walls and puriform contents. These cavities usually communicate with a bronchus, and sometimes merely enlarge a cavity already formed by a bronchiectasia. Or, the process of exudation into the air-cells may be accompanied by inflammation of the in- terstitial connective tissue and flbrous induration. When the disease is of long standing, this new formation of fibrous tissue