POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 274 and the atrophied condition is difficult to distinguish from atro- phied carcinoma. Sometimes the growth of connective tissue, instead of being general, is contined to one or more circum- scribed portions of the gland. "We then find one or more hard nodules, which may become atrophied and indurated in the same way as the diffuse growth. Fibroma Nodosum.—Small, circumscribed, fibrous tumors in the stroma of the gland are described, but appear to be rare. Fibroma Papillare occurs in the form of intra-canalicular growths. Little papillary fibrous growths are formed on the walls of the milk-ducts. As the growths increase, the ducts become dilated, and we find a solid tumor divided up by clefts and fissures in every direction. The clefts are lined with pave- ment or cylindrical epithelium. Lipoma usually occurs as a diffused increase of fat about the gland. In this way the mamma may appear to be enormously hypertrophied. More rarely, we find smaller, circumscribed lipomata in the stroma of the gland. Billroth describes a large lipoma, which grew behind the pectoralis muscle, and pushed the mamma downward and forward. Enchondroma of the mamma is very rare. A single case is described by Astley Cooper, and another by J. Miiller. A few other cases are described of enchondroma combined with carci- noma. Adenoma.—A new growth of glandular tissue, resembling that of the mammary gland, sometimes occurs. Rarely, the glandular tissue forms the principal part of the new growth, which is then soft and succulent. More frequently, there is at the same time a growth of connective tissue. The tumor is then firm, but succulent, circumscribed, and movable, (Paget's Mammary Glandular Tumor.) The connective tissue between the new glandular follicles may be rich in cells, and pass gra- dually into the structure of a sarcoma. For this reason, Yir- chow regards the entire growth rather as a sarcoma with per- sistence of the normal glandular tissue, than as a new growth of glandular tissue. It sometimes happens that in a breast, which has been for some time the seat of a hard adenoma, a carcinoma is afterward developed as a separate tumor.