267 THE TESTICLES. Myxoma occurs in the testis as a soft gelatinous growth, which may break through the scrotum, and appear as a fungous mass. Michondroma occurs in the testis in the form of soft, hyaline tumors, which may attain a very large size. In some cases, we find great numbers of peculiar papillary cartilaginous out- growths partly contained in the enlarged lymphatic vessels of the tumor. Combinations of enchondroma with cysts, sarcoma, and carcinoma are common. Ttobercle usually begins in the epididymis, and may extend from there to the testis. More rarely, it begins in the testis. The growth begins in the form of small, gray granulations, which become cheesy, and fuse together into dry, yellow masses of considerable size. They are accompanied by a chronic in- flammation of the surrounding tissues, and the cheesy mass may perforate the scrotum, and project as a fungous growth. Tiie growth may also extend to the vas deferens, vesieulse seminales, and prostate. Cysts.—Single, simple cysts containing serum, and dermoid cysts containing epithelium, are sometimes found in the testis. Cysts containing spermatozoa are found in the epididymis ; they are probably formed by dilatation of the follicles of the Wolffian Body. Cysts containing serum alone are formed from the same follicles. Small serous cysts are also formed in the connective tissue beneath the tunica vaginalis of the testis and epididymis. Compound Cysts, Hydatid Tmnor, Cysto-sarcoma, Cysto- fibroma, Fibro-cystic Tumor, Cysto-adenoma.—These names are given to a growth in the testis which is not of very frequent occurrence. The organ is converted into a mass of cysts con- taining serum, or colloid matter. The walls of the cysts are lined with pavement or cylindrical epithelium ; their internal surfaces are smooth, or there are intra-cystic papillary growths. Sometimes the smaller cysts are filled with epitheliinn packed in concentric layers. The stroma is composed of fibrous tissue, with few or many connective tissue-cells ; sometimes of mucous tissue ; sometimes nodules of cartilage, and rarely striated mus- cle are found. Or there may be a combination with carcinoma. In the only example of this form of tumor which I have seen, the cysts were lined with cylindrical epithelium ; the stro-