THE BONES. 293 itself so early that it is impossible to say whether the tumor began in the periosteum or in the medulla. There is also a variety which grows close to the outside of the periosteum, and becomes connected with it—parosteal sarcoma. The periosteal sarcomata usually belong to the varieties fibro, myxo, chondro, and osteo-sarcoma, more rarely to the medullary variety. They are very frequently combined with fibroma, chondroma, and osteoma. They commence from the inner layers of the periosteum, pushing this membrane out- ward. After a time the periosteum is attacked, and the tumor invades the surrounding soft parts. The bone beneath may re- main normal, or may be eroded and gradually disappear until the tumor is continuous with the medulla. Portions of the tu- mor may be calcified, or a growth of new bone may accompany its growth. The new bone usually takes the form of plates, or spiculse, radiating outward. The minute anatomy of these tumors is very variable. The simplest—the fibro-sarcomata— are composed of fusiform, round, stellate, and sometimes giant, cells, (myeloplaxes,) in variable proportions, packed closely in a fibrous stroma. In the medullary form, the stroma is diminished to a minimum, and the round cells are most numerous. In the chondro and myxo-sarcoma, the basement substance may be hyaline, or mucous, and the cells follow the type of cartilage and mucoiis tissue. In the osteo-sarcoma, there is a new growth of osteoid tissue, more or less calcified. In the chondro, myxo, and osteoid sarcomata, there are usually fusiform, round, stel- late, and giant cells, in addition to the cartilage and bone- cells. The myelogenic sarcomata commence in the medulla and grow rapidly. The bone surrounding them is destroyed, and they project as rounded tumors. Most frequently, new bone is formed beneath the periosteum, so that the tumor is inclosed in a thin, bony shell; sometimes there are also plates of bone in the tumor ; sometimes the periosteum is imaltered ; sometimes it is perforated, and the tumor invades the surrounding soft parts. The tumors are usually vei'y soft, vascular, and liremor- rhagic, or may contain cysts. They are sometimes mistaken for cysts filled with blood. They are composed principally of