THE BONES. 283 tration of a considerable portion of the raednlla of one of the long bones. The inflammation begins in the shaft, and soon extends to the cancellous tissue of one or both of the epiphyses. The hypersemia is succeeded by a purulent infiltration, which does not usually, however, soften or form abscesses. The peri- osteum generally becomes inflamed, and abscesses are formed beneath it, in it, and in the surrounding soft parts. This, com- bined with the osteomyelitis, often produces necrosis of small or large portions of the bone, or even of an entire bone. In other cases, the periosteum is thickened, and the shaft of the bone is thickened and sclerosed. The purulent infiltration of the medulla, after a time, dilates the medullary cavity, and may finally break through the wall of the bone. The joints in which the diseased bone terminates are almost always secondarily inflamed. There may be only a serous or a purulent exudation ; or the osteomyelitis may extend to the ar- ticular end of the bone and the cartilage, and produce severe and destructive inflammation. In young persons, the epiphyses very frequently become separated from the shaft by the destruction of the cartilage which binds them together. In bad cases, the medulla becomes broken down and gan- grenous ; the joints are soon involved ; large portions of the bone necrose; the periosteum and surrounding soft parts become gan- grenous ; the veins become filled with thrombi; and pyaemic in- farctions are formed in difierent parts of the body. (2.) Traumatic osteomyelitis is produced by contusions, frac- tures, wounds, and crushing of bones, and by amputations. Its character is the same as that of the spontaneous variety. Osteitis.—The periosteum, the medulla, and the blood-ves- sels are essential component parts of a bone. They are the parts actively engaged in all inflammations of bone, while the bone-tissue proper, composed of cells imbedded in a calcareous basement substance, has but a passive share in the process. It is, therefore, more a matter of convenience than strictly proper to speak of periostitis, osteomyelitis, and osteitis, and the divi- sion is entirely arbitrary. Nevertheless, it is very convenient