185 THE LIVER. bedded in transparent, finely granular cell-bodies of irregular shape, and in larger flakes of pigment alone. There are also colorless cells, like those holding pigment, which contain no pig- ment. The white globules of the blood are frequently also in- creased in number. These pigment bodies are found in the greatest number in the blood of the spleen and liver. These organs, therefore, assume a black or olive-brown color. The liver is usually of normal size, and the hepatic cells are normal; but it may be hypertrophied or atrophied, and the liver-cells may be fatty, or waxy, or cirrhosed. The pigment is found in the venous capillaries and in the branches of the hepatic artery. This pigmentation is most constantly found in the spleen, but in exceptional cases is found in the liver and not in the spleen. In marked cases, the brain, lungs, intestines, kidneys, and sub- cutaneous connective tissue are found of a brownish color, and their capillaries contain pigment. In the brain, the pigment masses may block up the small arteries and produce numerous punctate apoplexies. The black masses of sulphate of iron, produced by decomposition, can be distinguished by their blue color when treated with hydrochlo- ric acid and ferro-cyanide of potash. GEANULAK, OK PARENCHYMATOUS DEGENERATION. We find a peculiar change in the liver-cells as an accompani ment of several different pathological processes. The hepatic cells are at first filled with fine granides, soluble in alkalies, and apparently of albmninous nature. At a later stage, the cells are filled with coarser and glistening granules, soluble in alco- hol and sethor, and of fatty nature. These changes in the hepatic cells are found as a result of impeded circulation, of infectious diseases, and of poisons, or of general distm-bances of nutrition. Thrombosis of the portal vein, abscesses, and cirrhosis may produce granular degeneration of circumscribed portions of the hepatic tissue. Pyaemia, septicEemia, erysipelas, epidemic cerebro-spinal