THE BOKES. 285 (2.) Condensing osteitis, or osteo-sclerosis, is, properly speak - ing, an osteomyelitis. The medulla is replaced by red grann- lation-tissne, whicli becomes transformed into layers of com- pact bone on the inner surface of the preexisting bone. The cancellous bone may thus be changed into compact bone, and the medullary canals of long bones may be completely filled up. There is very frequently at the same time an ossifying periostitis. The process is sometimes idiopathic, more frequently excited by some chronic irritation of the neighboring bone, or soft parts, or is the termination of rarefying osteitis. (3.) Carious osteitis is a variety which has been frequently called tuberculosis of the bones. It occurs principally in the cancellous ends of the bones, and in the bodies of the vertebrae. There is a chronic osteitis with sclerosis, or rarefaction, fol- lowed by cheesy degeneration of the inflamed medulla, or of pus, if any be formed. We then find dry, yellow, cheesy masses in the diploe. Tlie process may terminate in necrosis, or in caries. (4.) SyjpliilltiG osteitis.—The syphilitic poison may excite one of the varieties of osteitis already mentioned, or it may produce the so-called gummy growths. An osteitis gummosa begins as a periostitis, most frequently ot the cranial bones. The periosteum is thickened and infiltrated with cells; the vessels which extend from the periosteum into the bone are surrounded with a new growth of small cells. At this stage, if we strip off the periosteum, we drag with it the vessels surrounded by the new cell-growth, leaving the bone beneath with numerous small perforations extending inward. As the disease goes on, the cell-growth around the vessels, ajid the con- sequent holes in the bone, become larger and larger, and fuse together, until a circumscribed portion of bone is replaced with cellular tissue. Then cheesy degeneration sets in, with absorp- tion and production of connective tissue. In this way, Ave find in the bones dry, eroded depressions or perforations, containing more or less cheesy matter, while the skin over them is un- changed. In other cases, suppurative inflammation accompa- nies the gummy formation, and involves the skin. The pro-