POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 156 In this "way, the greater part of the mucous membrane may be destroyed. The milder forms of croupous inflammation, in -which only the superficial layers of the mucous mem- brane are destroyed, leave no permanent lesions. The deeper sloughing and ulcerative processes, on the other hand, leave large cicatrices and contractions of the intestines. The connective tissue around the rectum frequently shares in the inflammatory changes of the intestine, and becomes in- durated. It may also be the seat of idiopathic inflammatory changes, producing induration or abscesses around the rectum. The Colon.—The entire length of the colon is subject to the same inflammatory changes as the I'ectum. Acute and chronic catarrhal inflammation, with ulceration ; thickening of the mus- cular coat and the formation of mucous polypi; croupous in- flammation, with the formation of large ulcers, both occur. In rare cases, idiopathic croupous inflammation of the colon occurs, and causes death. The CcBCum.—Catarrhal inflammation of the ciBCum, or typhlitis, is not uncommon. It is usually produced by an habitual accumulation of faeces in this portion of the intestines. The course of the disease is usually chronic, but marked by acute exacerbations. The mucous membrane is at first con- gested, afterward ulcerated ; there is a slow, suppurative inflam- mation of all the coats of the intestine and of the surrounding tissues ; fistulous openings are formed through the wall of the caecum, through which the fteces pass into the cavity of the abdomen, and cause fatal peritonitis, or produce abscesses Avliich are shut in by adhesions ; or the fjeces pass through the peritoneum into the muscles of the posterior wall of the abdo- men, and form large cavities filled with pus and fieces. Perityphlitis.—There may be an idiopathic inflammation of the subperitoneal tissue just beneath the caecum. It forms large abscesses, which may perforate the ca?cum and allow the fteces to escape. Or the wall of the caecum may become relaxed, so that a persistent and even fatal constipation is produced. The Appendix Yermiformis is sometimes the seat of catar- rhal inflammation and ulceration, e.xcited by the presence in it