125 THE VEINS. side. A thrombus in the vein is the constant accompaniment of periphlebitis. It usually is the cause of the inflammation, but may be its result. The changes which take place in the throm- bus, and the infarctions produced by its fragments in different parts of the body, are the most important results of phlebitis. Periphlebitis may terminate in absorption of the thrombus, with the return of the vein to its normal condition; in oblite- ration of the vein; or in the death of the patient from infarc- tions. Chronic Periphlebitis produces thickening of all the coats of the vein, but principally of the outer coat. The suri-ounding soft parts are also thickened, so that the vein can hardly be separated from them. The lumen of the vein remains open, or is filled with a thrombus. Endophlebitis is an inflammation of the inner coat of the ^ vein, of the same character as chronic endarteriitis. Circum- scribed patches of thickening of the inner coat are produced, which afterward undergo fatty and calcareous degeneration. Waldeyer has lately drawn attention to the fact that the division of the walls of the veins into three coats, as in the ar- teries, is an artificial one. The venous Avail is rather a layer of connective tissue, covered on its inner surface with endothelium, and reinforced in places by muscular fibres and elastic tissue. If the outer part of the venous wall .is inflamed, the morbid process is apt to extend to its inner surface. We then find on the internal sm-face of the vein very fine velvet-like granula- tions, which are formed by an increase of the endothelial cells. These granulations may increase in size until the wall of the vein is covered with a soft mass, which can hardly be distin- guished from a thrombus. The mass is, however, a soft, organ- ized, vascular granulation tissue, continuous with a similar cell growth through the entire thickness of the wall of the vein. The form of phlebitis is attended and followed by the forma- tion of a thrombus. NEW GROWTHS. Myoma has been observed in two cases : one on the saphe- nous vein, and one on the ulnar vein. The tumors were of small size, and formed by a circumscribed hypertrophy of the muscu-