^ THE BRAIN. 57 The changes in these cases, often called " white softening," are, therefore, simply degenerative and necrobiotic, or of a very low inflammatory type. Such a spot of softening may remain unchanged for years, or it may become completely fluid and form a cyst with thick walls. 2. If a small artery is plugged, or there is thi'ombosis of a vein, the results are entirely different. In such cases, Ave And the appearances belonging to the hemorrhagic infarctions of all the viscera. The set of capillaries belonging to the artery or vein affected are distended with blood, a certain number of them rupture and allow the escape of blood into the tissue. Tlie tissue around and between the distended capillaries and extravasated blood becomes the seat of degenerative and in- flammatory changes. The portions of tissue affected are single or multiple, usually small, most frequently near the surface of the hemispheres. The brain tissue is red, mottled red and white, gray or yellow; it is soft or even puriform. It is com- posed of broken-down nerve fibres, globules of myeline, pig- ment masses, compound granular corpuscles, granular mattei', lymphoid cells, fibrine or serum, and red blood globules. The blood-vessels are filled with blood, dilated, and often fatty. After a time, these spots of so-called " red softening" may be- come fairly purulent, or may, from the loss of - blood pigment, become yellow and gray-colored, or may become sclerosed, or rarely cheesy. Abscess of the Brain.—When inflammation of the brain tis- sue goes on to an excessive formation of pus, abscesses are form- ed. A recent abscess has an irregular shape; its walls are com- posed of shreddy, disintegrated brain substance, and around it for some distance the brain tissue is softened. The pus isiisual- ly green and fetid. An old abscess becomes inclosed in a fibrous capsule, smooth inside, continuous with the brain out- side ; often very thick. The pus is always ill-formed, and may change into serum alone, so that the abscess looks like a cyst. Fractures of the skull, either depressed or not; blows on the skull, without fracture; inflammation of the cranial bones or membranes; inflammation of the internal ear, with or without caries of the temporal bone, and pyaemia, are the usual causes