POST-MOKTEM EXAMINATIONS. 304 system, and renders the tissues prone to take on purulent in- flammation. (3.) Metastatic Pycemia.—This is a very difierent condition from the two preceding, and is accompanied with marked le- sions. Either in consequence of wounds, injuries, inflamma- tions, abnormal conditions of the system, or changes in the venous walls, the blood may become coagulated during life and form thrombi in the veins. These thrombi may become organized, or they may soften, break down, and their fragments be carried into the circulation. Some of such fragments ultimately be- come fixed in the small arteries and capillaries, and there exert a two-fold action. By their mechanical action in obstructing the vessels, they produce a collateral congestion, stasis, and extravasation of blood. By the irritative character of the thrombi themselves, they excite inflammatory action in the adjoining tissues. In this way are produced hsemorrhagic in- farctions and multiple abscesses. The character of these in- farctions will be more minutely described in connection with the organs in which they occur. In persons, therefore, who die with metastatic pyjemia we find infarctions and small abscesses in the brain, lungs, heart- walls, liver, spleen, kidneys, and intestines. These infarctions very frequently prodiice inflammation of the serous coverings of the viscera in which they occur. The lungs are the organs most frequently involved. Further, we may find purulent in- flammation of the serous and synovial membranes, and ab- scesses in the connective tissue. The emboli which produce the infarctions can sometimes be distinguished, sometimes not. The thrombi, from which the emboli are detached, are some- times readily found in the vein close to the original Avound. In other cases, they may be in the vein at some distance from the wound; in other cases, it may be, in a neighboring vein, or even in one in some distant portion of the body. Sometimes no thrombus can be discovered. Enlai'gement and congestion of the spleen and kidneys, and jaundice, are sometimes found.