187 THE LIVER. In cancer of the liver, the thrombus may be produced by the pressure on the vein, or the new growth may project into the vein, and form part of the thrombus. In very rare cases, the portal vein and its branches have been found tilled with a soft material composed of nucleated cells, while there was no new growth in the liver or other viscera. 3. Tumors, or new connective tissue, which compress the portal vein below the liver. Chronic peritonitis, tumors of the stomach, pancreas, and omentum, and tumors or enlargements of the adjoining lym- phatic glands, are the most frequent causes. 4. There may be no cause for the thrombus. This is espe- cially the case when isolated branches of the portal vein become filled and obliterated by a thrombus, and in consequence of this, the portions of the liver supplied by these venous branches become atrophied, and the liver assumes a peculiar lobulated shape. In all the conditions mentioned above, the tendency of the lesion is to the permanent occlusion of the branches of the por- tal vein which are filled with the thrombus. This obliterative form of thrombosis is usually attended by ascites, enlargement of the spleen, enlargement of the abdomi- nal veins, rarely by jaundice, sometimes by haemorrhage from the stomach and bowels. Thrombi in the portal vein, instead of becoming hard and closing the vessels, may become soft and broken down; while the wall of the vein becomes the seat of a suppurative inflam- mation. The thrombi are then of a reddish, grayish, or yellow color; a thin layer adheres to the wall of the vein; while the rest of the thrombus is partly solid, or converted into a puri- form fluid. Such thrombi, when they fill up the smaller veins, produce granular degeneration of the hepatic cells and abscesses. The causes of this form of thrombosis are various. (1.) Traumatic. Medical literature has so far only contained the single case, reported by Lambron, of thrombosis produced by a fish-bone. The bone was three centimetres long, was im- pacted in the head of the pancreas, penetrated the anterior wall of the superior mesenteric vein obliquely from above down-