24 POST-MOETEM EXAMINATIONS, in a fibrous capsule, from which fibrous processes extend into the cortex. The cortex consists of two layers : an outer yellow layer, and an inner thin, reddish-brown layer. Next to the capsule is a thin layer of polygonal and rounded nucleated cells, arranged in rounded groups. To the inside of this is a broad layer of poly- gonal, cuboid, or rounded nucleated cells, arranged in parallel rows or in long follicles. The long axes of the rows, or follicles, are at right angles to the surface of the organ. The inner layer of the cortex is composed of the same cells closely packed in a stroma with fine meshes. The medullary portion consists of a delicate fibrous reticulum, in the meshes of which are cells. The cells are very fragile, of polygonal or stellate shape. They are arranged in groups, or are irregularly contained in the stroma. The blood-vessels are very numerous ; they are derived from the aorta, the phrenic, the coeliac, and the renal arteries. The nerves are also very abundant. They are derived from the semi-lunar ganglion, the plexus renalis, the phrenic, and the vagus. They are especially numerous in the medullary portion. Ganglion cells are found in the course of the nerves in the medullary portion. It is very common to find the suprarenal capsules changed by decomposition. The inner layer of the cortex softens and breaks down, so that the outer layer of the cortex forms a sort of cyst filled with a reddish-brown, broken-down material. The cells of the cortex usually show a considerable degree of fatty degeneration. The Spleen is next to be examined. It is ah organ of ellipti- cal, flattened shape, slightly curved on its flat surface. It is situated on the left side of the stomach, with its long axis ver- tical. Its convex surface is in contact with the diaphragm ; from its concave surface, or hilus, its vessels are given ofi". Its long diameter reaches from the seventh intercostal space to the eleventh rib. Its upper portion is separated from the ribs by the lungs ; its lower portion by the diaphragm. Its normal length is from 4|- to 5^ inclies ; its breadth from Z\ to 4 inches ; its thickness, 1\ to If inches. It weighs from 8 to