121 THE AETERIES. varions changes. The outer layers of tlie arterial Avail may be- come necrotic, the inner coat may also die and be cast off in small fragments. In other cases, pus is produced either as a diffuse infiltration of the outer coats, or in the form of small circmnscribed abscesses. The inner coat degenerates into little fragments, or is ruptured. In other cases, the inflammation has a more chronic character, and leads to fibrous thickening of th^ coats of the vessel, and frequently to its obliteration. In all the varieties, the presence of a thrombus in the artery, either as cause or efl'ect of the inflammation, complicates the process. The thrombus may shrivel and be absorbed, or become organiz- ed, or be broken down and gangrenous, and form infarctions in other parts of the body. JEndarteriitis is a chronic inflammation of the inner coat of arteries, resulting in the production of atheromatous and calci- fied plates. It rarely occurs before middle life, while in old age it is a very frequent senile change. The arch of the aorta is the most frequent seat of the lesion, but it may occur in any artery. The disease begins in the form of small, flattened elevations on the inner surface of the artery. These elevations are formed by a hyperplasia of the outer layers of the inner coat. We find a considerable number of round, fusiform, and stellate cells with a basement substance, wdiich is hard and fibrous or soft and mucous. When the lesion has reached this stage, it goes on to fatty or calcific degeneration. Fatty degeneration attacks both the neAV cells and basement substance, converting them into a dense, yellow, cheesy mass ; or into a soft, semi-fluid, yelloAV, jDuriform substance. Instead of cells and basement substance, we now find fatty and broken cells, granules, and plates of cholesterine. This condition is called atheroma. The softening process ad- vances toward the inner surface of the tunica intima, covering the atheromatous patch, until a small perforation is formed and we find a small cavity filled with a thick, yellow fluid, com- municating with the cavity of the vessel by a narroAV sinus. As more of the intima is destroyed, the opening becomes larger, and we find a flat ulcer, often of considerable size. On the