TUMORS. 363 (1.) The Simple Angioma. These tumors are formed of a new growth of capillary vessels. They are situated in the skin, or in the subcutaneous tissue. The angiomata of the skin (nsevi) form flattened, red growths in the skin, not separated from the surrounding tissue, and gradually replacing the skin tissue. Those in the subcutaneons tissue are more circumscribed and nodular. They may be joined with a new growth of fatty tissue. The simple angiomata are, as a rule, congenital. (2.) The Cavernous Angioma is formed of a connective tissue stroma in which are numerous cavities, communicating with each other, and filled with blood. The inner surface of these cavities is lined with endothelium. The blood in the cavities is usually dark-colored and venous. They commnnicate with small arteries and veins, or with large arteries and veins ; they may pulsate. They are inclosed in a fibrous capsule, or are continuous with the surrounding tissues. These growths are congenital, or are formed at any period of life. (3.) Lymph-Angioma. A circumscribed new growth of lymphatic vessels sometimes occurs. The tumor has a cavernous structure, with its cavities filled with lymph, instead of blood. It forms part or the whole of some of the hypertrophies of the tongue, lips, and cheeks. It is usually a congenital condition, II. Adenoma.—This name is given to tumors which are com- posed of glandular tissue, not including the lymphatic glands. This is a group of tumors of which the limits'and character are not yet well determined. They are closely related in structure to some of the forms of epithelial cancer, and yet many of the growths seem to be entirely benign. The new glandular tissue follows the type of that of the re- gion where it is situated. Sometimes it is a simple hypertrophy of the normal glands of the part. In the skin, we find adenomata formed of the sebaceous glands and the sweat-glands. In the mucous membranes of the nose, stomach, intestines, rectum, gall-bladder, and cervix uteri, we find new growths of glandular follicles lined with cylindri- cal ej^ithelium.