19 METHOD OF EXAMINATION. After removing the blood, the heart should finally be weighed. In adults, the normal average weight of the heart is, in males, 10 oz.; in females, 8 oz. The average relative weight to that of the body is, in males, 1 : 158 ; in females, 1 : 149. Accord- ing to Bizot, the thickness of the wall of the left ventricle is, in males, 7-16 in.; in females, 5-16 in.; of the right ventricle, in males, 3-16 in.; in females, 2-16 in. Males. Females. The diameter in French lines of the mitral valve is 45 17-30 41 1-3 " " " tricuspid valve is 54 12-61 48 14 aortic valve is 31 15-61 28 4-5 " pulmonary valve is 32 21-61 30 7-60 Generally speaking, the size of the heart corresponds to the size and development of the individual. In judging of an increase or decrease in its size, we must consider the weight of the organ and the thickness of its walls. If the patient dies while the heart is contracted, the walls of the ventricle will appear thicker,, their cavities smaller than usual. If the patient die of some exhausting disease, like typhoid fever, or if decomposition has commenced, the heart-walls will be flabby, and the cavities will appear larger than usual. The Pleural Gmities are now examined. The hand is passed into each, and the existence of serous or fibrinous exudation, or of old adhesions, are ascertained. The method of ascertaining the presence of air has already been given. The Lungs.—Each lung is now lifted up in turn, the vessels, etc., at its base divided, and the organ removed. If the pleura is very adherent, it is better to strip oiF the costal pleura with the lung. After inspecting the external surface of the lung, we proceed to open the bronchi. For this purpose, we use a pair of scissors with long, narrow, blunt-pointed blades, one blade a little longer than the other. The lung is held in the- left hand, with its base upward. We first open the large bronchi which run on the inner side of the lower lobe; then the other bronchi of the lower lobe ; and afterward those of the upper lobe. Each bronchus should be followed to its termina- tion, and then its different branches opened. In the larger and middle-sized bronchi, the cartilage in their-