TIJE STOMACH. 141 degeneration of the gastric tnbules. Tliis condition is founcl » with many severe diseases—Scarlatina, Measles, Typhus, Phos- phorus poisoning, Sinall-Pox, etc. The mucous membrane of the stomach is congested, uniformly or in patches, and swollen. The cells in the gastric tubules are enlarged, granular, and dis- tend the tubules. In the more chronic cases, there is no conges- tion. The mucous membrane is opaqiie, thick, and of a yellow- ish color. The tubules are distended with granular cells. Phlegmonous Gastritis is very rare. It may be secondary or idiopathic. In the latter case, it may cause death in a few days, with the symptoms of acute peritonitis. Tlie wall of the stom- ach is found thickened by exudation in its submucous coat. This exudation may run out, on section, as a yellow fluid of various degrees of density; or it remains in place as a soft, sticky, yellow material. These different appearances dej)end upon the relative proportion of lymphoid cells, fibrine and serum. The exudation may extend over part, or the entire extent of the wall of the stomach. It may break thi'ough the mucous mem- brane by small openings. There may be at the same time gen- eral peritonitis. Toxic Gastritis.—The mineral acids, the caustic alkalies, ar- senic, corrosive sublimate, and the metallic salts, phosphorus, camphor, and all other irritating materials, cause different le- sions of the stomach, according to their quantity, their strength, and the length of time that has elapsed before death. In large quantities, they destroy and convert into a soft, blackened mass both the mucous membrane and the other coats, so that perforation may take place. In snialler quanti- ties, they produce black or white sloughs of the mucous mem- brane, sm-rounded by a zone of intense congestion. If death does not soon ensue, the ulcerative and cicatricial j)rocesses which follow such sloughs, may contract and deform the stomach in various ways. If the poisons are of less strength, they produce a diffused congestion of the mucous membrane, with catarrhal or croup- ous exudation on its sm-face, and serous infiltration of the sub- mucous coat.