58 POST- MOKTEM EXAMIXATIOXS. of abscesses. The abscesses may occur in any part of the brain, be of any size, and be solitary or multiple. They are always fatal, but may exist for years before death ensues. YeUoio Softening.—Under this name Eokitansky describes a peculiar condition of the brain. It occurs in circumscribed spots; lias a moist, tremulous consistence, and a yellow color. The brain substance around is much swollen and oedematous. This form of softening may occur in any part of the brain. It is either idiopathic or secondary. It is found near hemorrhages and tumors. Sclerosis:—Inflammation of the brain tissue, instead of ren- dering it soft, may cause induration. As a senile change, the consistence of the brain often be- comes harder and dryer. In Typhus, Cholera, puerperal Peri- tonitis, and Scarlet Fever, the brain may be firmer than usual, and contain less serum. In lead poisoning, the brain may be both indurated and ati'ophied. In general paralysis, there is an induration of the superficial layers of the braiu accompanying chronic meningitis. In tw^o cases of mild insanity of short duration, with paraly- sis of all the limbs, I have seen the entire white substance of the brain very markedly indurated. There was also a peculiar, colloid-looking degeneration of the gray matter of the cord. Sclerosis of isolated portions of the brain {Sclerose en Plaques) occurs usually in connection with the same lesion of the cord. "We may find it in any part of the Avhite substance of the brain. The sclerosed patches are of variable size, num- ber, and shape. They are firm, depressed, and shrunken, of a rosy or gray color. This lesion is characteristic of paralysis with tremor. In all cases of sclerosis the essential process is an increase of the neuroglia, with atrophy of the nervous elements. Interstitial Enceplialitis.—Under this name Virchow has de- scribed a lesion which is very frequently foimd in still-born and very young children. It consists in an enlargement and fatty degeneration of the cells of the neuroglia of the white substance of the hemispheres, so that they look like compound granular corpuscles. It is still uncertain whether this change is to be looked upon as a pathological condition.