166 POST-MORTEM EXAMINETIOXS. of some of the viscera wliich the peritoneum covers. The spleen, the liver, and the xiterus are very often found covered with adhesions produced by attacks of local peritonitis. Such a partial peritonitis may give rise to few or no symptoms during life, and usually subsides, leaving membranous adhesions. Sometimes, however, it produces abscesses in the subperitoneal tissue. In rare cases, the omentum alone is the seat of acute inHam- mations, sometimes leading to purulent infiltration. General chronic peritonitis is usually the result of an acute peritonitis. This is especially the case when masses of exuda- tion are shut in by adhesions, and give rise to a series of chronic inflammatory processes. In other cases, a long-continued obstruction to the portal circulation, caused by disease of the liver and heart, produces a thickening of the peritoneum and membranous adhesions between the viscera. There is usually at the same time ascites. In these cases the inner surface of the peritoneum is often covered with numberless little granules formed of clumps of epithelial cells. In rare cases, the exudation has a gelatinous appearance, and is produced in enormous quantities, so that the abdomen is dis- tended and the viscera compressed. In other cases of chronic peritonitis, there is a very consider- able thickening of the peritoneum with thick, lardaceous, false membranes, which cover the parietal peritoneum, form adhesions between it and the viscera, and cause the intestines to adhere together, so that they form a solid tumor. The adhesions are composed of connective tissue, fibrine, and fat, are yellow, of waxy consistence, and usually mottled with small haimorrhages. The lumen of the intestines is contracted, the peritoneal and muscular coats thickened. In tubercular peritonitis there are found numbers of gray, miliary tubercles in the peritoneum and in the false membranes. Tlie proportion between the number of tubercles and the amount of false membranes varies very much in dift'erent cases ; some serous eft'usion is also usually present. Chronic partial peritonitis is more connnon, and usually de-