THE LUKGS. 77 of a lien's egg. These nodules are firm and of a dark red color. The lung tissue around them is hypersemic, or fairly in the con- dition of red or gray hepatization. Minute e,\amination shows the alveoli, bronchi, and blood-vessels in these nodules to be completely filled with blood globules. These infarctions may cause death by their size and number, or by the pneumonia and pleurisy which they excite. In other cases, the blood globules break down and become fi.uid, are partly absorbed, partly coughed out, and partly changed into pigment. The air-cells which had been filled up may again be expanded with air, or may contract and form a spot of fibrous induration. In still other cases, the lung tissue becomes gangrenous and forms cavi- ties with irregular walls and brownish semi-fluid contents. Hosmorrhagic Infarctions also form the most constant lesion of pyfemia, although with a somewhat difierent history. They are usually situated near the surface of the lung, are small and often numerous. At first they resemble the non-pyeemic in- farctions, and look like dark red nodules. Very soon, however, there is a narrow zone of pneumonia around them, then their centres become decolorized, soft, and white ; soon this softening involves the entire infarction and forms a small cavity filled with whitish puriform fluid. The causation of these pysemic infarctions is very clear. They are produced by the plugging of a small artery with an embolus, and this embolus 'is usually part of a broken-down thrombus in some vein sitiTated in inflamed tissue. It is the necrotic and xmhealthy character of the embolus which gives to the infarc- tion its tendency to rapid decomposition and suppuration. The non-pyjEmic infarctions are in some cases undoubtedly produced by the same mechanism. The embolus then comes from vegetations in the right cavities of the heart. Whether such infarctions are always produced by emboli is still un- certain. EMPHYSEMA. Emphysema is of two kinds, vesicular and interlobular. (1.) Vesicular Emphysema consists in an abnormal dilatation of the alveoli of the lung, with thinning and atrophy of their walls.