POST-MORTEM EXAMIIS'ATIONS. false membrane. Most authors hold that the extravasation pro- ceeds from the nterus, ovaries, and tubes. This is denied by Virchow, Avho holds that in most cases the blood comes from the vessels of membranes formed by local peritonitis. The extravasation usually begins at a menstrual period, and increases at the succeeding periods. INFLAMMATIOX. 1. Of the Unlmjpregnated Uterus. Acute Catarrhal Endometritis is seldom seen after death. It occurs spontaneously, from gonorrhoea, with typhus fever, scur- vy, etc. During life, the mucous membrane is swollen and congested, and covered with an increased qi;antity of muco-pus. After death, these appearances may remain or disappear. Chronic Catarrhal Endometritis involves the body or cervix, or both. It may be the continuation of an acute inflammation, or begin as a chronic disease. It is found at every age ; but is most common after puberty. It is produced by a great variety of causes. In tlie lesser grades of inflammation, we find no re- liable lesions after death. In the more mai'ked cases, the mu- cous membrane is thickened, grayish, or blackish colored, cover- ed witli muco-pus. The papillse of the cervix are hypertrophied ; the mucous follicles are swollen, and their outlets obstructed. The uterine wall becomes accid and atrophied, or may be hy- pertrophied, especially the cervical poition. This simple hy- pertrophy of the uterus from catarrhal endometritis is often mistaken for inflammatory enlargement of the organ. During the course of the inflammation, we find ulceration of the mucous membrane, especially in the cervix, and hypertrophy of the ])a- pillcE of the cervix. There may also result contraction or oljlite- ration of tlie canal of the cervix. The inflammation may ex- tend to the Fallopian tubes, or to the vagina. Croupous Inflammation of the uterus is rare. It occurs witli cholera, typhoid fever, and t.ic exanthemata. Tlie disease usually extends to the vagina, sometimes to the Falk)i)ian tubes. Acut<2 Metritis is usually the result of acute catarrhal cndome-