THE LIVER. 193 tration of the liver tissue. The nodules are white or yellow, from fatty or cheesy degeneration, or red, from haemorrhages. They are single or multiple, large or small; they may project from the surface of the liver in the form of nodules, or be even with it, or depressed. They are often the seat of haemorrhages, which may burst through the peritoneum into the abdominal cavity. They are hard or soft, according to the relative propor- tion of fibrous tissue and cells. The cancerous nodules may un- dergo fatty or cheesy degeneration ; they may become inflamed and purulent; they may soften at the centre, so as to form cyst- like cavities filled with viscid or thin serum. When the new growth infiltrates the organ, it is usually firm, white, or pinkish, and may occupy a large portion of the liver. The liver itself may be of medium size, or may attain immense dimensions. The hepatic cells may remain unchanged, or may become fatty, or be stained with bile. The portal vein and its branches may become filled with thrombi, and with portions of the new growth. Either the growth in the liver erodes and projects into the vein, or the wall of the vein is unchanged, while its cavity is filled with the new growth; or, in rare cases, the veins alone contain the new growth. The hepatic veins and their branches usually remain exempt from this lesion. The lymphatic ducts on the surface of the liver may be dis- tended with cancerous growth, and the neighboring lymphatic glands are frequently enlarged and infiltrated. The bile-duets may remain unchanged, or become compressed and obliterated, or be dilated and rupture, or nodules of new growth may form in their walls. Alveolar or colloid cancer of the liver is rare. It usually ex- tends to the organ from some of the abdominal viscera. It has the appearance of a gelatinous, semi-translucent mass, replac- ing larger or smaller portions of the organ. Its minute struc- ture is a fibrous stroma, forming alveoli filled with gelatinous matter, and a variable number of cells. Lymphangioma Cavernosum.—Two cases of secondary tu- mors of this character have been observed in the liver. Tlie 13