247 THE UTERUS. tumor filled with small cavities containing serum. Or the soft consistence may be simply due to the preponderance of muscu- lar tissue. Occasionally Ave find in a portion or in the whole of a tumor an abundance of dilated blood-vessels, which gives the part a true cavernous structure, like that of an erectile tumor. These tumors may change their size suddenly from the variable amount of blood which they contain. A very important change, which is sometimes found in these tumors, is tlie development of cysts in their interior, (til)ro- cystic tumors.) This takes place in those tumors which grow outward beneath the peritoneal coat. We find one or more cavities, communicating with each other, with rough, trabecu- lated walls. The appearance is more that of cavities than of cysts. There may be a number of smaller cavities, or they may fuse to form one large one. The fluid contained in the cavities is like synovia, or is mixed with blood. These cystic myomata may reach an immense size, and fill the abdominal cavity. The diagnosis between them and ovarian cysts is very difficult, and they have frequently been the subjects of fatal operations. The intra-parietal myomata may give rise to profuse hajmor- rliages ; they may suppurate and become gangrenous ; the intra- uterine ones may undergo spontaneous expulsion ; those which project beneath the peritoneum may produce inflammation of the neighboring tissues. In the cervix uteri, myomata are rare. They may grow as polypi beneath the mucous coat; or produce enlargement of the anterior or posterior lips; or may grow outward into the ab- dominal cavity. I have seen a cystic myoma of large size grow- ing from the posterior wall of the cervix and the upper part of the vagina, which was mistaken for an ovarian cyst. In the wall of the vagina, myomata are still more rare. They \isually grow outward, toward the rectum or bladder; very rarely project inward" as polypi. Fibroma Papillare, Papilloma, occurs in the form of (1) small, soft, polypoid growths from the mucous membrane of the uterus or cervix ; (2) as syphilitic condylomata of the