65 THE BRAIN. Severe injuries of the head which fracture the skull without displacing the fragments, or even cause no fracture, may pro- duce laceration of the brain. The laceration takes place either at the point of injury or at some other part of the brain. We find small or large portions of the surface of the hemispheres mottled with little haemorrhages, the brain tissue softened and broken down. H^MOEEHAGE. Effusions of blood in the substance of the brain are very com- mon and may occur at any age. They may be of small size— capillary apoplexies, or consist of large blood-clots. They may occur in the large ganglia, or at any point in the hemispheres. They usually pi'oduce softening and breaking down of the brain tissue, and often find their way into the ventricles or be- neath the pia mater. They cause death when of large size. The smaller ones sometimes undergo degenerative changes, the blood becomes absorbed, and there are left little cysts contain- ing serum, surrounded by indurated, reddish-yellow brain tissue, or there are little spots of a reddish color composed of a soft, friable material. These hfemorrhages are produced by fatty, or atheromatous degeneration of the vessels of the brain, hypertrophy, and val- vular disease of the heart, convulsions, and external injuries. Often no satisfactory cause can be discovered. liSTFLAmiATION. Idiopathic inflammation of the brain is so rare that its ex- istence is denied by some authors. The alterations in the brain tissue are usually secondary to injuries, to inflammation of the meninges, or to some obstruction of the cerebral vessels. The changes met with are, in recent cases, diminution of consistence and change in color ; in chronic cases, increase of consistence. Injuries^ which either directly bruise and lacerate the brain, or do so indirectly without fracture of the skull, render the brain tissue soft, mottled with small apoplexies, the nervous tissue disintegrated and degenerated, the softened mass infil- trated with red blood globules and lymphoid cells. Obstruction of the Cerebral Vessels occurs in a variety of