299 THE JOINTS. of the cartilage, so that a projecting rim is formed there. This projecting rim then begins to ossify next the bone, and, at the same time, new cartilage is formed on its surface, so that we find large masses of bone covered with cartilage. The atrophy of the ends of the bone, which goes on at the same time, is not so easily explained. It seems to be a kind of inflammatory atrophy taking place beneath the cartilage. NEW GROWTHS. Lipoma.—A new growth of fatty tissue may begin in the outer portions of the synovial membrane, push this inward, and project into the joint in a mass of tufts—lipoma arbo- rescens. Fibroma occiirs as an hypertrophy of the little tufts and fringes of the synovial membrane. In this way, large polypoid and dentritic bodies are formed. The pedicles of these growths may atrophy and even disappear, so that the growths are left free in the cavity of the joints. Corpora AUena Articulorum, Loose Cartilages in the Joints, These names are given to bodies of various structure and ori- gin, which are found free, or attached by slender pedicles in the cavities of the joints. They are most frequently foimd in the knee; next in order of fi-equency, in the elbow, hips, ankle, shoulder, and maxillary joints. They may be single, or in hundreds. Their size varies from that of a pin's head to that of the patella. They are polypoid, rounded, egg-shaped, or almond-shaped; their surface is smooth or faceted, or rough and mulberry-like. They are composed of fibrous tissue, carti- lage, and bone in various proportions. These bodies are formed in four different ways. (1.) By hypertrophy of, and production of cartilage and bone in the physiological synovial tufts. (2.) More frequently by a change into cartilage of portions of the synovial membrane. Small, flat plates of cartilage form on the inner surface of the synovial membrane. These plates increase in size and their outer layers ossify. They may remain fixed in the synovial membrane, or they project and become