THE LUNGS, 87 most difBcult to study. It is seen in its most typical form in the lungs of children. Here we find both lungs studded with very small, grayish, semi-translucent granulations. "When these granulations are discrete, and only their centres yellow and cheesy, they may readily be recognized. But when they be- come aggregated and entirely cheesy, it is difiicult to dis- tinguish them from the catarrhal miliary phthisis of children. In adults the same is the case. Occasionally we meet with pure and typical cases concerning which there is no doubt. The granulations are scattered in great numbers through both lungs. They ai-e very minute, can hardly be felt on the surface of the section, are gray, semi-translucent; some have a white spot at the centre; the lung tissue between them appears normal. The granulations seem to grow from the walls of the bronchi and vessels, and sometimes from the walls of the air- cells. They consist of small, round, and fusiform cells, and sometimes of larger masses of finely granular matter, contain- ing nuclei, (myeloplaxes.) The cells are considered by Virchow to be the same as the cells of lymphatic glands, and he calls the granulations heteroplastic lymphomata. Others regard the cells as belonging to connective tissue. The cells are contained in a matrix which is sometimes finely granular, sometimes a dis- tinct fibrous network. There is almost always some catarrhal pneumonia of the adjoining Imng tissue, though it may appear normal to the naked eye. Tliere are usually small granulations of the same appearance in the serous membranes and in the liver, spleen, and kidneys. This is the only fonn of tubercles in the adidt lung, which can be certainly recognized. The small, whitish spots which are often seen in fibrous induration seem to be merely such accumulations of round cells as are to be seen in any new growth of fibrous tissue. There are, however, sometimes small opaque, cheesy, miliary nodules of which it cannot be certainly said whether they are tubercles or miliary hepatizations. rULMONAKY SYPHn^IS. There is much difficulty in determining what lesions of the lungs are dependent iipon syphilis. It is generally admitted