80 ■POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. tlie left auricle into the left ventricle may produce tins lesion. Stenosis and insufficiency of the mitral valve, and stenosis of the aortic valve, are the cardiac lesions most frequently found. The lungs appear small, the pleura somewhat thickened ; the surface of the lungs is of a pale pinkish color, mottled with brown or red. Their cut surface is of a bright red color. They contain less air than usual, and have a firm, leathery texture. Very little blood exudes from their cut surface ; they are some- times dry, sometimes oedematous. Not infrequently there are lobules of hepatization and pulmonaiy apoplexies, or the greater part of a lobe may be hepatized. The lesion consists in, (1,) dilatation of the capillaries; (2,) thickening of the walls of the air-cells; (3,) increase of pig- ment ; (4.) an accumi;lation of large cells in the alveoli, as in a low grade of catarrhal pneumonia. This last is the most con- stant lesion, and the one of greatest pathological importance; for by it the alveoli become gradually filled up, and respiration is seriously impeded. The large epithelial cells produced by the inflammation often contain granules of dark pigment. INFLAMMATIOJT. Inflammation of the lungs afiects either the alveoli or the in- terstitial connective tissue. When it affects the alveoli, they become filled with inflammatory exudation ; when the intersti- tial tissue is involved, it becomes increased in amount. 1. Croupous Pneumonia is one of the most common dis- eases of adult life. It usually involves the greater part of a lobe, and may extend over one or both lungs. It passes through three stages. (I.) Congestion.—This stage usually escapes our observation in the human subject, but nuay be artificially produced in ani- mals. The lung is dark colored, and exudes a large amount of blood and serum. The blood-vessels, both large and capillary, are ffortred with blood : the alveoli and small bronchi contain a small amount of a material which is coagulated by alcohol into an amorphous, granular, or dimly fibrillated substance. (2.) The first stage is soon followed by the second, that of Red Hepatization. The lung loses its spongy consistence, and