18 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. a moderate stream of water allowed to flow into the ventricles. The auriculo-ventricular valves will be swollen outward, and we can observe the degree of their sufiiciency. The tricuspid valve is normally somewhat insuflicient. To ascertain the size of the different valvular openings, we introduce one or more fingers, held flat and with their edges in contact, into each of the orifices, and then measure the width of the fingers at the point where they fill the orifice. In this way we find that, the aortic valve measures about 1 inch; the mitral valve, If inches; the pulmonary valve, 1^ inches ; the tricuspid valve, 2 inches. In order to examine the interior of the heart, we first make an incision through the anterior wall of the right ventricle, close to the septum, and reaching to the apex of the ventricle; through this opening the blade of the enterotome is passed into the pulmonary artery, and the ventricle and artery laid open. "With a little care, the incision may be made to pass through one of the points of junction of the pulmonary valves. The ventricle may be empty, or contain fluid blood, or red clots, or succiilent yellow clots, or firm whitish clots, either free or at- tached to the heart-wall. The succulent yellow clots are very common; they are sometimes intimately entangled with the trabeculse of the ventricular wall; tliey are not a pathological condition, but are found in persons dying in every way; they ai'e formed after death or during the last moments of life. Tlie condition of the pulmonary valves, of the endocardium, and the thickness and appearance of the wall of the ventricle are then noticed. The left ventricle is then opened and examined in the same way, by an incision through its anterior wall close to the septum. We sometimes see the endocardium of the upper part of the left ventricle thick and wliite, without the existence of valvular lesions, or any clinical histoi'y of disease. To com- plete the examination of the cavities, the enterotome is passed into each ventricle and auricle, and an incision made from the apex of each ventricle through its outer border, and the outer border of the corresponding auricle. In this way the auriculo- yentricular valves are fully displayed.