310 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. class belong the changes in the lymphatic follicles of the intes- tines, in the mesenteric glands, and in the spleen. (2.) Those which are very fi'equently fonnd with this fever, and yet are not peculiar to it. To this class belong the changes in the parotid and pancreas, the degenerations in the liver, kidneys, and voluntary muscles, thrombosis of the blood- vessels, infarctions, diseases of the lungs, and suppuration of the connective tissue in various places. (1.) The Intestines.—The lesions of the intestines consist in an inflammatory enlargement, and subsequent degeneration of the lymph-follicles, whether as solitary glands or as Peyer's patches. The process appears to begin with a catarrhal inflammation of the mucous membrane, accompanied or immediately follow- ed by changes in the lymphatic follicles. The lesions in the lymphatic follicles begin early; they have been observed in per- sons who have died forty-seven hours after the commencement of the disease. The increase in size of the agminated and solitary follicles may be rapid or gradual. The follicles may be only sliglitly enlarged, or may project so as to All up the cavity of the intes- tine. The enlargement is xisnally more marked in the agmi- nated than in the solitary follicles. Usually the whole of an agminated follicle will be enlarged, but sometimes only a part of it. If the enlargement is gradual, the diflerent follicles which make up a Peyer's patch are enlarged, while the septa between them remain but little changed, and give the patch an nneven appearance. The patches which are only moderately enlarged are of red- dish or reddish gray color, are soft and spongy, and their edges blend gradually with the adjoining mucous membrane. The patches which are more intensely aflected are of gray or brown- ish color, of firm consistence, and rise abruptly from the sur- rounding mucous membrane, or even overhang it like a mush- room. The largest patches are sometimes more than f inch thick. The enlargement and infiltration may spread from the patches to the surrounding mucous membrane, so that the