POST-^tOETEM E^XAMINATIONTS. 88 that two lesions can be ascribed to tliis disease; namely, Fibrons induration, and Gummy tumors. The fibrous induration may occur in the form of multiple, hard, slate-colored, or white nodules, or of a diftused indura- tion of part of a lobe. It does not differ anatomically from the lesions of fibrous phthisis, and is only to be diagnosticated with tiie concurrence of other syphilitic lesions and history. The gummy tumors are found in small numbers, fi'om one to six or eight. They form nodules of the size of a pea to a wal- nut, partly white, partly gray-colored, imbedded in fibrous in- duration. They are cheesy in irregular patches, separated by bands of fibrous tissue, and consist of small, round, and fusiform cells. As many cheesy nodules of other origin are found in the lungs, gummy tumors are only to be pronounced to be such after very careful examination. In still-born children, parts of the lungs are sometimes found in a condition of white hepatization, the alveoli being filled Avith great numbers of epithelial cells. This lesion is usually attrib- uted to syphilis. NEW GROWTUS. Cysts are of very rare occurrence in the lungs. They may contain serum, fat, cholesterine, and hair. Fibroma is also very rare. Rokitansky describes the tumors as small, white, and firm; or yellow, flabby, and puckered. Encliondroma may be primary or secondary. Tlie primary tmnors are small, multiple, usually at the root of the lung, often attaclied to the bronclu and vessels. They are sometimes found after death, when they liad given rise to no symptoms during life. The secondary tumors are more common. They may reach a large size, sometimes occupying an entire lung. Osteoma is rare. It forms either irregular plates, or some- what globular, spongy tumors. It is not to be confounded with calcification of the lung tissue. Sarcoma is not infrequent. It occurs in the form of rounded nodules, usually multiple. It is secondary to sarcomata in other organs, especially to those connected with the bones.