THE BRAIN. 53 as large as the cliild's head. The malformation is caused by a partial hydrocephalus of the cavities or membranes of the brain. Hydrocephalus.—Hydrocephalus internus consists in an ac- cumulation of serum in the ventricles of the brain. It occurs in all degrees, according to the period of fo3tal life at which it begins. There may be only a sac formed by the membranes, or the brain may be partly developed, or it may be perfect. The cranial bones are separated at their sutures and fontanelles In rare cases, only part of one lateral ventricle is hydrocephalic, giving to the head a protuberance on one side. The viability of the foetus depends upon the degree of the hydrocephalus. Hydrocephalus externus is an accumulation of serum beneath the pia mater, or, according to some authors, between the pia and dura mater. It causes dilatation of the cranium and com- pression of the brain. It is of very rare occurrence. Mlcroceplialia.—This is an abnormally small size of the brain, with a correspondingly small cranium. The diminution in size affects principally the cerebral hemispheres, though the other parts of the brain are also small. The convolutions are few and simple, the cavities often dilated with serum, on. the membranes are traces of inflammation. The cranium is small, the face large, the rest of the body small. The malformation is caused by inflammation or dropsy of the brain during fcetal life. It is endemic in some countries, but single cases may occur anywhere. The fcetus is viable. Absence of portions of the brain may occur not only in idiots, but in persons whose minds are perfect. IIYPEKTKOPHY AND ATROPHY. Hypertrophy.—In children, either before or after birth, less frequently in youth, and very seldom in adults, we find hyper- trophy of the brain. This hypertrophy consists in an increase of size of the white substance of the hemispheres. If it takes place before the ossification of the cranium, the bones are sepa- rated at the sutures and fontanelles; if after this, the inner table of the skull is eroded and thinned. When the cranium is opened, the dura mater appears tense and anaemic, the convo- lutions of the brain are flattened, the brain substance is firm