26 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. is carried on along the greater curvature of the stomach as far as the oesophagus. (If poisoning is suspected, a ligature should be placed on the lower end of the oesophagus, and at the middle of the small in- testines, and these organs removed unopened. They are then to be opened in a clean glass jar, and after inspection of the mucous membrane, both stomach and contents are to be deliv- ered to the chemist for examination.) We now look for the orifice of the bile-duct, which will be found about the middle of the descending portion of the duo- denum near the lower part of its concave border. Pressure on the gall bladder will cause the bile to flow into the intestine, if the ducts are pervious. A long director is then passed into the bile-duct and up into its hepatic branch, and the duct laid open. It is said that if the upper part of the duct is stained by the bile, while its duodenal extremity is not stained, this may indicate the existence of an inflammatory swelling of the duodenal portion during life sufiicient to obstruct the flow of bile into the intestine. The mucous membrane of the duodenum and stomach are now washed ofi" and examined. Acute inflammation from caustic poisons, chronic catarrhal inflammation, hemorrhage, ulcers, and new growths are the lesions most frequently met with. In hos- pital patients, we sometimes find a difiiised congestion of the stomach exactly like that produced by an irritant poison, as a result of small doses of croton-oil given just before death. The stomach can be preserved entire if hung in a large jar in a mixtxire of equal parts of alcohol and Sol. Potass. Bichrom. The Liver.-—To remove the liver, we first divide the diaphragm on either side as far back as the spine. The liver is then drawn downward and the broad ligament and the right and left lateral ligaments divided. It is then turned backward into the thoracic cavity, the stomach and duodeniuxi are seized and dis- sected off', the vessels on its under surface divided. The liver can then be lifted up, the coronary ligament and remaining vessels dissected away, and the organ removed. To determine the actual size of the organ, it should be both measured and weighed. The size of the liver varies greatly in