264 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. Sometimes, while the testis is retained, the epididymis and spermatic cord descend into the scrotum. The retained testis is usually not fully developed, or under- goes fatty or fibrous degeneration. It may become the seat of malignant new growths. Sometimes, however, although both testicles are retained, the individual is capable of procreation. In rare cases, the position of the testis may be changed, so that the epididymis and cord are in front. The existence of a supernumerary testis has been asserted in some cases, but is rather doubtful. In cases of abnormally early development, we sometimes find the testes in a young child as large as they should be in an adult. INFLAMMATION. Inflammation of the testicles is caused by injuries, exposure to cold, inflammation of the urethra, syphilis, and occurs with parotitis. The testes, epididj^mis, or tunica albuginea may be principally involved. Usually only one testicle is inflamed; sometimes both. The inflammation may extend to the vas deferens. The inflammation may be acute or chronic. Acute inflam- mation is more frequent in the epididymis and the tunica albu- ginea. The organ is congested and infiltrated with serum. From this condition, it may return to the normal, or small ab- scesses may form in the testis and epididymis, and destroy the greater part of the organ. In other cases, the epididymis re- mains swollen and indurated for a long time; in other cases, it becomes atrophied. Chronic inflammation occurs as a sequel of acute inflamma- tion, or as an original condition. It usually aflects the testis, but may extend to the epididymis and spermatic cord. The organ is slowly enlarged. The tubes of the testis are enlarged and filled with degenerated epithelium ; the interstitial fibrous tissue is increased in amount. The testis and epididymis are then found to be composed of a mass of fibrous tissue, imbedded in which are cheesy nodules—the remains of the degenerated tubules. In some cases, nothing but fibrous tissue is found ; in