167 THE PEEITONEUM. pends on lesions of the viscera. The spleen, liver, and uterus are frequently the seat of a chronic inflammation, producing thickening of their capsules and membranous adhesions. Ulce- ration of the intestines, typhlitis, subperitoneal abscesses, etc., all lead to chronic partial peritonitis. In rare cases, the omen- tum alone is the seat of a chronic inflammation, producing fibrous thickening and adhesions. The most important feature of such a partial peritonitis is the interference with, or even stricture of, the intestine pro- duced by the adhesions. The subperitoneal tissues sometimes become the seat of suj)- purative inflammation, by which abscesses are formed. These retroperitoneal abscesses are caused by perinephritis, pericysti- tis, perityphlitis, periproctitis, perimetritis, periovaritis, in- flammation of the muscles of the back and abdomen, caries of the vertebrae, etc. The abscesses usually reach a considerable size, they invade the neighboring soft parts, produce caries of the bones, and finally perforate inward through the peritoneum, or outward through the skin. GANGRENE. Gangrene of the peritoneum is produced by incarceration and intussusception of the intestines, by abscesses, and, in in- fants, by gangrene of the ximbilicus. The portion of perito- nemn afiected appears as a slough surroimded by a zone of in- tense congestion, or as a softened, black, putrid mass. ASCITES. Besides the turbid fluid, composed of serum, pus, and fibrine, which we find as an inflammatory exudation in the peritoneal sac, we also meet with simple dropsical accumulations of serum. The serum, in these cases, is nearly colorless, yellow, green, or red. It is perfectly transparent, or opalescent, or contains fibri- nogenic material, which coagulates when exposed to the air. The composition of the fluid resembles that of the serum of the blood. The peritoneum appears unchanged, or is white and thick, or there may be adhesions between the different viscera.