153 THE INTESTINES, about its long axis. Tliis is very rare, and only occurs in the colon. (6.) The mesentery of a part of the intestine is long and loose, in consequence of a dragging down of the intestine by a hernia or by habitual constipation. The portion of intestine thus permitted to hang down is habitually filled with faeces, and by its pressure on some other part of the intestine produces an incomplete stricture. INTUSSUSCEPTION. This change of position consists in the invagination of one portion of intestine in another portion. Usually this takes place in the direction of the peristaltic movements, from above downward ; more rarely, in the opposite direction. The parts are foxmd in the following condition : There are three portions of intestine, one within the other. The inner portion is continuous with the intestines above the intussuscep- tion ; its peritoneal coat faces outward. The outer portion is continuous with the intestine below ; its peritoneal coat also faces outward. The inner portion is turned inside out, its mu- cous membrane is in contact with the mucous membrane of the outer portion. In rare cases, the intussusception is complicat- ed by the invagination of a second portion of intestine in the inner tube, and even by a third intussusception into the second one. These changes occur both in the large and small intes- tine ; most frequently the lower part of the ileum is invaginat- ed in the colon. The invaginated portion may be from a feAV inches to several feet in length. The lesion is most frequently found in early childhood. The intussusception, by the dragging and folding of the me- sentery which it produces, causes an intense congestion of the parts, and even large lisemorrhages between the coats of the in- testine. The congestion may induce fatal peritonitis, or gan- grene of the intestine, or chronic inflammation and adhesions, and the patient lives for a considerable time with symptoms of stricture. In other cases, the invaginated portion of intestine sloughs, the outer and inner portion become adherent, and the patient recovers, with or without some degree of stricture.