THE ABTERIES. 117 Of tlie otlier arteries of the body there is hardly any one which may not become the seat of an aneurism. STENOSIS, Stenosis and obliteration of the aorta, at the point of entrance of the ductus arteriosus, has been described in a considerable number of cases. The situation of the stenosis is either exactly at the entrance of the ductus arteriosus, or close on either side of this point. The degree of stenosis varies. The aorta may be entirely clos- ed and converted into a solid cord for a length of half an inch ; or there may be a circular constriction through which there is a larger or smaller opening. The constriction is uniformly cir- cular ; or there is a septum springing from the concave side of the vessel at the opening of the ductus arteriosus ; or there is a cicatricial-like contraction of the aorta. The walls of the aorta at this point may be thickened and sclerosed. The ductus arte- riosus may be closed or open. Above the constriction the aorta is usually dilated; below it, it is normal, dilated, or stenosed. Stenosis of the aorta produces hypertrophy of the left ventri- cle, and, later, of the right ventricle, with venous congestion throughout the body; or there may be a collateral circulation developed between the arteries given off above and below the constriction; or there may be rupture of the aorta, the right ventricle or auricle. This condition is found at all ages, but is produced during foetal life, or in the first year of extra-uterine life. It is proba- ble that it may be caused after birth by an abnormal closure of the ductus arteriosus. This vessel normally becomes closed with- out the formation of a thrombus. If a thrombus is formed, it may extend into the aorta and obstruct it; or the ductus arte- riosus is filled with a thrombus, but increases for a time in size; ■afterward, as the thrombus is absorbed, the vessel contracts and draws the walls of the aorta together. Stenosis of the aorta and of some of the other arteries has been observed in a few rare cases, without any known cause. Endai'teriitis, with the production of atheromatous and cal- careous patches, may obstruct or entirely obliterate the smaller