78 POST-.ArORTEM EXA^iIINATIOXS. We must distinguish from tliis a simple dilatation of tlie alveoli, wliicli we tind dependent on various conditions. The bronchi may be partially obstructed so that the escape of air is impeded, and after death the lungs remain unnaturally inflated. Or a considerable portion of the lung tissue is rendered imper- vious to air by pneumonia, oedema, or pleurisy, and the rest of the lung is unnaturallj' dilated. Or, the walls of the alveoli may lose their elasticity so that they no longer expel the air, but remain dilated. In true vesicular emphysema, we find the lungs pale, anae- mic, large, of a soft cushiony textiire, the alveoli distinctly visible with the naked eye. The walls of the alveoli are thinned, the capillary vessels are small, and the spaces between them are increased in size. Often a portion of the walls of the alveoli entirely disappear, so that several alveoli become fused into one. These changes are apt to be most marked at the edges of the lobes. This change in the lung tissue may atfect both lungs, or one lung, or part of a lung. Yer}^ often when part of a lung is contracted and indurated, the neighboring portions will be emphysematous. Emphysema is almost always associated with some degree of chronic bronchitis. It also leads to hypertrophy of the right ventricle of the heart, to expansion of-the walls of the thorax, and to displacement downward of the diaphragm and the abdo- minal viscera. Emphysema and chronic bronchitis may of themselves cause death. In other cases, the lungs become tlie seat of an acute croupous pneumonia, and this causes death, often when only part of a single lobe is hepatized. Fibrous induration, either in bands or nodules, is also sometimes associated with emphysema. Interlobular Emphysema consists in the escape of air from tlie alveoli into the interstitial connective tissue, or beneath the pleura. In the latter situation, it may form vesicles of consid- erable size. This form of emphysema is not of very frequent occurrence, nor of much pathological importaTice. It may be produced by any thing whicli causes rupture of the alveoli. In rare cases, there may be rupture of the pleura and pneumotho-