68 POST-itORTEM EXAMINATIONS. the little Ijmpliatic follicles in the subiiuicous tissue may swell and ulcerate. The syphilitic condylomata produce much graver lesions. They form small, rounded nodules on the surface of the mucous membrane. These nodules may become ao:2re2:ated together so as to form masses of considerable size, and of soft, medullary consistence. Either the large or the small nodules may ulcerate. The ulceration, if extensive, may induce peri- chondritis, and also hypertro^jhy of the mucous membrane near the ulcerations. We find then the cavity of the larynx often entirely deformed by a series of changes which have caused destriiction of tissue in some places and hypertrophy in others. Tubercular Laryngitis usually accompanies ])ulinonary phthi. sis. In patients affected by phthisis we often find in the poste- I'ior wall of the larynx, between the arytenoid cartilages, one or more small, deep ulcers with overhanging walls, whilst there is often at the same time catarrhal laryngitis. In more severe cases, these little ulcers are numerous and become joined, or they are from the first of large size. In such cases, we may also ha^•e papillary hypertrophies of the mucous membrane and perichondritis. Tt is still uncertain how far these lesions are to be ascribed to submucous tubercles, and how far to follicular ulceration. NEW GROWTHS. V_ Ossification of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages is a regular senile change. The same thing is often caused by perichon- dritis. The epiglottis may become calcified, but does not change into true bone. Mucous Polypi are small, soft, rounded tumors with a pedi- cle. They are composed of a fibrous stroma covered with a thick layer of epithelium. Properly speaking, they are examples of papillary Fibroma. Fibrous Polypi usually occur in the upper part of the larynx, and may reach the size of a pigeon's egg. They are attached to the larynx by a broad or narrow pedicle, and are composed of fibrous tissue covered with epithelium. Chondroma.—Cartilaginous tumorsgrow from the thyroid