180 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. liepatic artery. In some cases, the portal vein and its large branches have been found filled with large thrombi. The hepatic artery becomes enlarged and its branches are more extensive. The hepatic veins are usually unchanged, with the exception of their capillaries, which ai*e gradually destroyed. The bile-ducts are compressed by the new tissue; the mucous membranes of the large ducts may be inflamed and swollen, and the gall bladder is often thickened and adherent. The obstruction of the portal circulation, produced by cirrhosis, gives rise to a number of secondary lesions. There are a number of veins which can afford a collateral circulation between the j)ortal vein and the vena cava. There are normally anastomoses between the internal and inferior hsemorrlioidal veins; between the left coronary and the oesopha- geal and diaphragmatic veins; between the haemorrhoidal and vesical veins ; between the coronary vein of the stomach, the gastro-epiploic veins and the renal veins; between the superior mesenteric and the left renal vein; between the vasa brevia and the left phrenic vein. All these vessels, however, are seldom enlarged in cirrhosis. There are sometimes large anastomoses between the veins of Glisson's capsule and the diaphragmatic veins. In rare cases, a very peculiar dilatation of the cutaneous veins about the umbilicus is observed. The enlarged veins form a circular network around the umbilicus, or a pyramidal tumor alongside of it, or all the veins of the abdominal wall, from the epigastrium to the inguinal region, are dilated. This condition is produced by the congenital non-closure and sub- sequent dilatation of the umbilical vein and its anastomoses with, the internal mammary, epigastric and cutaneous veins. According to Sappey, it is not the mnbilical vein which is dilated, but a vein which accompanies the ligamentum teres. There is very frequently also a dilatation of the veins of the abdominal wall, which has a difierent cause. It is produced by the pressui-e of the fluid of ascites on the vena cava, and is found with ascites from any cause and with abdominal tumors. Ascites is the most common secondary lesion of cirrhosis. It