POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 196 Inflammation of the stomach and duodenum, hypersemia, and inflammation of the liver, concretions, and parasites, are the usual causes of catarrhal inflammation of the biliary passages. Sujppurative and Croupous Inflammation may attack the biliary passages and produce infiltration of pus in their walls, and purulent fluid in their cavities ; or flakes and tubular casts of fibrine on their Avails; or infiltration of their walls with fibrine, and diphtheritic ulceration. These lesions are most frequently observed in tj'phoid and typhus fever, pyaemia, cholera, and with obstructions in the bile-ducts. They also occur under unknown conditions. These forms of inflammation may produce perforations of the ducts or bladder, with escape of bile, and peritonitis ; or fistu- lous openings between the gall-bladder and the duodenum, colon, and stomach, or through the abdominal wall. Or the inflammation may extend to the liver tissue and produce ab- scesses. Or the portal vein may be inflamed, and even perfora- tions be formed between it and the bile-ducts. Constrictions of the biliary passages may also be produced by the same causes. Constriction and Occlusion are produced by inflammation of the ducts themselves, by new growths in their walls, by con- cretions or parasites in their cavities, by changes in the hepatic tissue, by aneurisms. The obliteration of the smaller bile-ducts produces no marked lesions. When the ductus communis, or the hepatic duct, is obstructed, the ducts throughout the liver are frequently di- lated and the liver tissue bile-stained. "When the cystic duct is obstructed, the gall-bladder is dilated. Dilatation of the bile-ducts is usually produced by strictures in the ways just mentioned, or by calculi. AVhen calculi have produced the dilatation, this condition may sometimes continue after they have found their way into the intestines. Some- times, however, we meet with very marked dilatation of the bile-ducts without being able to make out any present or past obstruction. The dilatation may afiect only the common and hepatic ducts, or it may extend to the smaller ducts in the liver, which are then dilated xmiformly or sacculated. They