275 THE MAMMA. Cystoid Adenoma / Cysto-Sarcoma / Adenoid Sarcoma.— These names are given to a group of tumors of the breast which have a very complex structure. They usually occur in middle-aged women; grow at first slowly, afterward rapidly, and may reach an immense size. In some cases, there is no re- currence after extirpation ; in others, there are local recur- rences, and even metastatic tumors. When these tumors are cut open, they look like a solid mass separated by clefts and fissures, and in which are cysts. The solid tissue appears as a uniform mass, or as a loose tissue, or as if made up of tufts. It is white and hard, or pinkish and soft, or grayish and colloid. The general arrangement is that of dilated ducts filled with intra-canalicular growths. The intra-canalicular growths are tufts composed of connective tissue fibres and cells, containing blood-vessels, and covered with epithelium. Or they may con- tain glandular follicles. The extra-canalicular part of the growth consists of connective tissue-fibres, and cells, and of glandular follicles. The follicles are in variable numbers; they resemble those of the normal gland, or are larger, and lined with cylindrical epithelium. They are regarded as part of the normal gland, or as a new growth, by different authors. The connective tissue may be nearly pure fibrous tissue, or may con- tain so many cells as to merit the name of a sarcoma, or may be partly mucous tissue. In different tumors, therefore, or in different parts of the same tumor, we find a preponderance ot fibrous, cellular, mucous, or glandular tissue. The prognosis seems to depend upon the relative amount of the connective tissue-cells, and the consequent more or less sarcomatous nature of the growth. Myxoma occurs in the form of polypoid, pendulous tumors, covered with skin, and hanging down from the breast. It is also found as a more diffused growth in the stroma of the breast. The glandular tissue may atrophy and disappear in the new growth or the milk-ducts may be dilated, or there may be intra-canalicular growths of mucous tissue. In the latter case the tumors may resemble the adenoid sarcomata. Sarcoma occurs in the mamma in the form of circumscribed nodules, or ot larger growths replacing the entire breast. The^