THE BONES. 291 They are composed of cartilage with a hyaline, mucous, or fibrous basement substance, or with all these varieties combined in the same tumor. They are usually divided into lobules by bands of fibroiis tissue, and this fibrous tissue may form a large part of the tumor. They may calcify, ossify, and exhibit a great variety of transitions and combinations, with osteoma, myxoma, lipoma, sarcoma, and carcinoma. They occur most frequently in the small bones of the hand and foot, in diminishing frequency in the tibia, femur, and humerus, lower jaw, pelvic bones, scapula, ribs, upper jaw, and fibula. They are most common in young persons, and may be con- genital. They may be single or multiple. Their prognosis depends upon their exact anatomy. If they are purely cartilaginous, metastases are rare, but local recur- rences sometimes happen. If they are combined with myxoma, sarcoma, or carcinoma, the prognosis becomes worse, and may be very bad indeed. Under the name of ecchondroma, Yirchow describes a form of cartilaginous tumor which grows from permanent cartilage. The tumors are usually small, and of little clinical importance. They grow from the cartilages of the ribs, the pelvic synclion- droses, the intervertebral cartilages, the cartilages of the larynx and trachea, and the spheno-occipital synchondrosis. Fibroma.—Fibrous tumors may grow either from the peri- osteum or the medulla. The ordinary seat of the periostese fibromata is the bones of the head and face. They form polypoid tumors, projecting into the posterior nares, pharynx, mouth, and the antrum of Highmore. On the other bones they are not common. The central fibromata, growing from the medulla, are rare; They usually occur in the lower jaw, but have been seen in the ends of the long bones, the phalanges of the fingers, and the vertebrae. The fibromata may calcify, ossify, contain cysts, and be com- bined with sarcoma and angioma. Angioma—Aneurism of Bone.—A very large number of the- tumors, which have been described under these names, are-