215 THE KIDNEYS. renal artery, witli necrosis of tlie entire kidney. It occurred in a boy eiglit years old, who was recovering from membranous croup of the larynx and trachea. The left ventricle of the heart contained a firm, white, laminated thrombus. The spleen con- tained a large, recent infarction. There were emboli in the left hypogastric artery, and in the right common iliac. The left re- nal artery and its branches were completely filled with a firm thrombus. The left kidney was somewhat increased in size. Its surface was smooth, mottled red and yellow. The cortex was dry, opaqiae, and looked like dead tissue. The pyramids were bluish red. Here and there in the cortex and pyramids were d eep red spots. Thrombosis of the renal vein occurs in consequence of changes in the kidney; from tumors obstructing the circula- tion ; as a continuation of thrombi of the vena cava; and as a primary lesion dependent i;pon the general condition of the patient. Children, who are exhausted by diarrhoeas, etc., are perhaps the most frequent subjects of this lesion. The throm- bus may completely or only partially fill the renal vein- and its branches. H YDRO-NEPHEOSIS. Dilatation of the ureters and pelves of the kidneys is not uncommon. It is found at all ages, even before birth. It is produced by some mechanical obstruction to the outflow of urine. The obstruction may affect the pelvis, the ureter, the bladder, or the urethra. Calculi in the pelvis, or ureter; strictures of the ureters ; new growths compressing the ureters, especially cancer of the uterus; changes in the bladder ; stric- tures of the urethra are the ordinary causes. The dilatation usually affects the ureter and pelvis—some- times the pelvis alone, sometimes a single calyx. The pelvis and calyces are enlarged, the papillae are flattened or converted into cavities until there is left a large multilocular cyst, of which the walls are formed of a thin layer of kidney tissue. The kidney substance which is left, although thinned, is not necessarily diseased. The epithelium may be entirely normal. In other cases, the epithelium may imdergo granular degenera-