POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 284 to separate these three varieties according as the periosteum, the medulla, and the liard bone are the parts principally involved. We may distinguish several dilferent varieties of osteitis. (1.) Rarefying osteitis occurs both as an idiopathic disease and in connection with caries, necrosis, fractures, etc. In cancellous bone-tissue, the medulla becomes reddish, gela- tinous, or like granulation tissue, and is thickly infiltrated with lymphoid cells. The bony septa become thinner, and disappear to a greater or less extent, so that in extreme cases, instead of cancellous bones, we find only a mass of granulation-tissue. Wlien the disease occurs in the articular extremity of a bone, the granulating medulla may send little off-shoots through the articular cartilage. Tlie cartilage will then be perforated with numerous little holes, which may afterward become fused together, and destructive inflammation of the joint follow. Tlie walls of the shafts of the long bones may by this form of inflammation be converted into a loose, spongy bone-tissue. If, at the same time, an ossifying periostitis goes on, the bone is thickened but spongy ; or sometimes there are concentric layers of compact bone separated by cancellous bone. In these cases, there is a production of granulation-tissue in the medullary cavities and the Haversian canals; little projections of this granulation tissue pressing against the adjoining bone cause its absorption in small spaces or lacunaj; these lacunae grow larger, fuse together, and the compact bone is thus filled with cavities, or entirely destroyed. Virchow supposed that the cavities were formed by fatty degeneration, cell-prolifera- tion, or enlargement of the bone-cells. These cells may indeed be found somewhat changed, but the active processes are carried on by the medulla and the tissue in the Haversian canals. Volkmann states that there may also be a formation of new blood-vessels in the osseous tissue. In the inflammation and granulation of the surfaces of wounded bone, the process is the same, and often leaves a cir- cumscribed depression on the sm-face. Rarefying osteitis may terminate in osteo-sclerosis, in sup- puration, and in caries.