TYPHOID FEVER. 315 The second class of lesions comprises those which are fre- quently found with typhoid fever, but are not peculiar to it. The Motcth.—A number of changes are found about this region. The follicles at the root of the tongue and the tonsils may be enlarged ; the muscles of the tongue may undergo waxy and granular degeneration; gangrenous ulcers may at- tack the floor and sides of the mouth, and destroy large areas of tissue. The Pharynx may be the seat of catarrhal or of diphtheritic ulceration, producing superficial and deep ulcers. The Parotid is, in a moderate number of cases, the seat of an inflammation which tends to suppuration. In this process, both the glandular acini and the connective tissue between them are involved. Which of the two has the larger share in the process is still in dispute. A slight enlargement and induration of the parotid and sub- maxillary glands is said by Ploffmann to be a frequent lesion, and to depend on increase of the gland-cells and dilatation of the follicles with their secretion. The Pancreas undergoes changes similar to those in the sa- livary glands. It becomes at first swollen and red, then hard and gi'ayish, then yellow. The vessels are at first congested; afterward, there is increase of the gland-cells; and lastly, degeneration. The Liver may preserve its normal character, or may present changes. In many cases, the organ will be found soft and flabby. Minute examination then shows that the liver-cells have under- gone degeneration. They are filled with fine granules and small fat globules, and the degeneration may go on so fai- that the outlines of the hepatic cells are lost, and nothing but a mass of granules can be seen. Less frequently, we find in the liver very small, soft, grayish nodules resembling those found in the peritoneum. They are situated along the course of the small veins, and there is, at the same time, a diffuse infiltration of lymphoid cells along the small veins. The nodules consist of lymphoid cells ; they are often too small to be distinguished with the naked eye.