296 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. wounds, gonorrhoea, rheumatism, or be idiopathic. The disten- sion of the sac vnth serum is the most prominent lesion. The disease terminates in recovery or becomes chronic. Croupous Synovitis leads to adhesions and anchylosis of the alfected joint. Purulent Synovitis may terminate in recovery Avith a normal joint. Or the articular cartilages ulcerate and are destroyed^ the exposed bone may become carious, the pus may break through the capsule of the joint and form large abscesses in the soft parts. Sometimes the inflammation is not only suppurative, but gangrenous, and runs a rapidly fatal course. The synovial membrane, articular cartilages and ends of the bones all under- go a rapid suppuration and gangrene. Pysemia and septicaemia, small-pox, measles, scarlet fever, diphtheria, mumps, typhus fever, glanders, the puerperal con- dition, exposure to cold, penetrating wounds, and injiiries may all give rise to purulent synovitis. Chronic Synovitis begins as such, or is the result of a previ- ous acute inflammation. There is an increase of fluid in the joint. This fluid is thin and serous, or is thickened with flocculi of fibrine and epithe- lial and lymphoid cells, or is thick, syrupy, or even gelatinoiis. The synovial membrane is at first congested, its tufts promi- nent. Later it becomes thickened, sclerosed, and anaemic, the epithelium is destroyed, and the tiifts become large and pro- jecting. From the distension of the capsule there may be sub- luxations or luxations of the joint, or the capsule may be rup- tured. Recovery is rare. Chronic Rheumatic Arthritis is a chronic inflammation of the joints, most common in elderly persons. Usually several joints are aft'ected and disease, advances slowly and steadily. There is a chronic thickening of the synovial membrane and the fibrous tissue adjacent to it. The articular cartilages degenerate and disappear. The contracting synovial membranes and fibrous tissue render the joints stifl" and deformed. Not infrequently flbrous and bony anchyloses are formed between tlie ends of the bones.