238 POST-MOETEM EXAMINATIONS. there may be either rupture or ulcerative perforation of the uterus. The blood may escape into the abdominal cavity, or be shut in by adliesions, or perforate into the bladder or intes- tines. Sometimes the blood passes into the Fallopian tubes, dilates them, and escapes through their abdominal ends. CHANGES m POSITION. The body of the uterus may become fixed in an abnormal position; while the situation of the cervix is unchanged. The body may be bent forward—ante-flexion ; backward—retroflex- ion ; or sideways—lateral flexion. The flexion may be slight, or so great that the neck and body form an acute angle. Ante- flexion is the most common variety, and that in which the flexion is greatest. Peritoneal adhesions, flaccidity of the uterine walls, atrophy, ovarian tumors, etc., are the usual causes. TheYersions oi the uterus consist in an abnormal inclination of the long axis of the organ to that of the vagina. The uterus may be inclined backward, forward, or to one side. Retroversion is very much the most common. The fundus uteri is directed backward and downward ; the cervix, forward and iipward. This condition is found in various degrees; in the hio-hest, the fundus lies in Douglas's cul de sac with the cer- vix upward, so that the axis of the uterus is parallel to that of the vagina, but in a direction exactly opposite to the normal one. Abnormal looseness of the uterine ligaments, abnormally large capacity of the pelvis, hypertrophy or tumors of the uterus, and pregnancy during the flrst four months, are the usual causes of this lesion. The greater degrees of version may produce very grave lesions. The urethra and rectum are compressed. Cystitis, perforation of the bladder, dilatation of the ureters and hydronephrosis, and fatal obstruction of the bowels may follow. If pregnancy exist, abortion may take place, or the inverted uterus nuiy be forced through the pei-itoneuni and posterior wall of the vagina, and project through the vulva.