POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 164 INFLAMMATION. Inflammation of the peritoneum is acute or chronic, general or partiah Acvte General Peritonitis produces congestion, and an exu- dation composed of fibrine, lymphoid cells, and serum. The amount of congestion is variable, and does not always remain visible after death. It is most intense at the point where the in- flammation begins, especially if this is produced by a wound, or by perforation of the intestines, or of an abscess. That con- gestion exists during life, can be seen in animals in whom peri- tonitis is artificially excited. The stage of congestion may exist for a certain time before exudation takes place. How long, and under what conditions this is the case in the hu- man subject, is not known. There are cases of puerperal women who manifest all the symptoms of peritonitis, and die from it, without any perceptible lesions of the perito- neum or uterus after death. In such cases, Ave may admit the existence of a peritonitis without exudation, and in which the congestion has disappeared after death. The exudation, when present, is scanty or abundant. It forms a thin, gray mem- branous layer, agglutinating neighboring parts ; or the perito- neum is coated with thick, yellow material, composed of fibrine and lymphoid cells; or there is a large amount of yellow, puru- lent serum in the abdomiual cavity. Sometimes there are lit- tle extravasations of blood iu the tissue of the peritoneum, and mixed with the exudation, and sometimes the purulent serum is of a peculiar dirty brown, fetid character. The muscular coat of the intestines may be infiltrated with serum, relaxed and paralyzed. General acute peritonitis is usually fatal, but may pass into the chronic form, or may disappear, leaving membran- ous adhesions. In some cases, these adhesions will inclose masses of pus and fibrine. These masses may then become dry, cheesy, or even calcified, or they become fluid and jjurulent. Such abscesses inclosed by adhesions may rupture into the peri- toneum, and cause a second peritonitis, or they may cause a gen- eral chronic peritonitis, or perforate the intestines, or] lead to