124 POST-MORTEJI EXAMINATIONS. become so thin that it finally ruptures, and the blood is dis- charged externall}'. Sometimes inflammation is set up in the tissues surrounding the vein, and we find both the surrounding tissues and the wall of the vein the seat of purulent infiltration or fibrous thickening. The parts of the body from which the dilated veins draw their blood exhibit the results of chronic venous congestion, oidenia, hyperemia, and hypertrophy. There is hardly one of all the veins of the body which may not be dilated. The veins of the leg and thigh ; those of the pelvis and pelvic viscera ; those of the spermatic cord, scrotum, and labia ; those of the abdominal wall; those of the neck and arm are the ones most frequently found in this condition. The causes of dilatation are some mechanical obstruction to the passage of the blood through the veins toward the heart. WOUNDS. KUPTUEE. Wo^m(Is of the veins xisually heal by a simple contraction, and an adhesive inflammation of their walls ; sometimes by the formation of a thrombus. Riapture of the veins is produced by severe contusions and crushings of the body, and by violent falls. Perforation of a vein is produced by suppuration of the soft parts and invasion of the walls of the vein ; by suppurative in- flammation beginning in the wall of the vein ; by the pressure of an aneurism or of a new growth ; by thinning of the venous wall in phlebectasiffi. INFLAMMATION. Inflammation of a A'cin may aftect principally the outer coat—periphlebitis—or the inner coat—cudophlebitis. Periphlebitis is of not infrequent occurrence. It is caused l)y the presence of a thrombus, by injuries, and by inflamma- tion of the surrounding tissues. It may be of a suppurative or of an indurative character. In suppurative periphlebitis, the outer layers of the venous Avail arc congested, swollen, infil- trated with serum and pus-cells. The inner coat degenerates, and portions become necrotic, and may be cast oft". In this way, the vein may be perforated either from the inside or the out-