336 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. person committed suicide, or was drowned by accident, or was murdered. Tliese questions are to be solved sometimes cer- tainly, sometimes with probability, sometimes not at all by the post-mortem examination. Maternal Inspection. It has been asserted that the bodies of drowned persons are colder than the average. The point has not, however, been determined by any exact thermometrical observations. The peculiar condition of the skin called cutis anserina is found very constantly before decomposition has set in, except in the case of new-born infants. This same appearance, how- ever, is frequent in persons who have died in any sudden and violent manner. Analogous to this is the retraction of the penis and scrotum in the male, and of the nipples in the female. Casper says that such a retraction is almost always present. We sometimes find sand, earth, weeds, etc., still grasped in the hands, or remaining under the nails. The rigor mortis appears to come on quickly; so that the body and limbs may be found still in the convulsed and dis- torted attitude which they assumed at the time of death. When the rigidity has passed oft", the limbs become relaxed. After tlie body has been in water for 12-2i hours the hands and feet become of a livid, grayish-blue color. After two or three days this change of color becomes still more marked, and the skin is wrinkled in long folds. In new-born infants the remains of the umbilical cord will not be found dried and mummified, imless the child was dead before it was placed in the water, or unless it was three or four days old before it was drowned. Decomposition takes place sooner in summer than in winter, sooner in stagnant water than in a running stream. As soon as a body is removed from the water to the air, putrefaction goes on much more rapidly. In bodies which have lain in the water decomposition begins in the face and head and goes downward, instead of its usual course of first appearing in the abdominal wall.