165 THE PERITONEUM. the formation of large abscesses beneath the peritoneum, or per- forate through the skin. Peritonitis is idiopathic, secondary, or metastatic. Idiopathic peritonitis is usually produced by wounds and contusions, or occurs in connection with the puerperal condition in Avomeu ; except in such cases, it is rare. Secondary peritonitis is produced by the continuation of in- flammatory and gangrenous processes of the abdominal viscera and wall. Thus, in the stomach and intestines, we find per- forating ulcers, irritative poisons, malignant new growths, in- carceration and intussusception, retention of faeces, and, rarely, severe catarrhal and croupous inflammation, producing a local peritonitis. Lesions of the uterus, the ovaries, the fallopian tubes, frequently cause general peritonitis. Inflammation of the urinary bladder, vesical and renal calculi, rupture and per- foration of the bladder, malignant growths of the bladder, nephritis, perinephritis, and tuberculosis of the urinary organs, may all cause peritonitis. In the liver we find abscesses, biliary calculi, new growths, hydatid cysts, and thrombosis of the veins actina; as irritatina; causes. In the spleen and pancreas, inflammation, suppuration, in- farctions, and new growths; in the cellular tissue, beneath the peritoneum, and -in the lymphatic glands, inflammation and suppuration, and new growths ; in the abdominal vessels, rup- tures of aneurisms, thrombosis of veins, may excite peritonitis. In the abdominal wall, inflammation, suppuration, and new growths; in tlie diaphragm, perforation from empyema and abscesses of tlie lungs often cause peritonitis. In some cases, without perforation, there is at the same time pleurisy and peri- tonitis, and it is diflicult to say whether the two are coincident, or whether one is secondary to the otlier. In the bones and muscles, caries of the vertebra? and ribs, with abscesses in the muscles, may cause peritonitis. In the peritoneum itself, new growths and hydatid cysts may cause inflammation. Metastatic peritonitis is found with pyjemia, the acute exan- themata, scurvy, and Bright's disease. Partial acute peritonitis is usually produced by inflammation