POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 316 The Heart.—In a considerable number of cases, the muscular tissue of tbe heart is altered. The heart feels soft and flabby, is of grayish or brownish color, the muscular fibres are infil- trated with fine granules, and sometimes with brown pigment. Or, the heart is firm, but friable and easily torn ; its cut surface glistens, and its muscular fibres present the waxy changes which will be described with the muscles. Thrombi in the cavities of the heart, and vegetations adher- ing to the valves, are sometimes found. They may give rise to emboli in different organs. The La/i'ynx is very frequently the seat of catarrhal inflam- mation, with or without superficial ulceration. Less frequently diphtheritic infiammation occurs, and, in severe cases, may pro- duce serious lesions: destructive ulcerations, perichondritis, and profuse haemorrhage. The Lungs.—The recumbent position of the patients some- times leads to a long-continued congestion of the lungs, wliich renders them unfit to perform their functions. The lower lobes of the lungs, and sometimes the uj^per, will be found dark- colored, firm, infiltrated with blood, containing but little air. Microscopic examination shows the capillaries filled with blood, and the air-cells containing a very variable number of lymphoid cells. Catarrhal bronchitis exists in a large number of cases. It may run its course as such, or it may become complicated with lobular pneumonia. This lobular pneumonia may go on to cheesy hepatization and be the commencement of phthisis. Sometimes lobar, croupous pneumonia is found. Infarctions are found in the lungs in all their various stages, apoplectic, bleached yellow and white, softened, and puriform. Gangrene of the lungs occasionally is found, either associated with lobular pneumonia, with infarctions, or as an independent condition. The Kidneys, in a large number of cases, present changes simi- lar to those in the liver; that is, a parenchymatous degeneration. The kidneys are of medium size, their surface smooth, but the regular markings of the cortex are lost and largely replaced by