THE STOMACH. 143 The way in wliicli these ulcers are formed is very obscure, and the explanations usually given are theoretical rather than based on actual observation. It is said that they are preceded by a circumscribed stasis and lisemorrhagic infiltration of a por- tion of the stomach-wall, and that the part thus infiltrated after- ward sloughs, and leaves the ulcer. Such a stasis may be caus- ed : (1) by catarrhal gastritis ; (2) by embolism, or thrombosis of an artery of the stomach ; (3) by chronic or acute venous hy- persemia, especially from thrombosis of the gastric and portal veins; (4) by fatty and atheromatous degeneration of the blood-vessels. Ilmnorrhagic Erosions occur as rounded spots or narrow streaks, formed by a loss of substance of the mucous membrane. The mucous membrane at these points is congested, soft, and covered by small blood-clots. The destruction of the mucous membrane is usually superficial, but may involve its entire thickness. The number of these erosions may be so great that the entire internal surface of the stomach is studded with them. They give rise to repeated liasmorrhages, and are accompanied by catarrhal inflammation of the rest of the mucous membrane. They occur at all periods of life, even in infants. Their usual seat is the pyloric portion of the stomach. They may be idiopathic. Usually, however, they occur in connection with some serious general disease. Catarrhal Ulcers are formed with chronic gastritis. They are small, round, or irregular, superficial or deep, congested, and usually in small numbers. They may cicatrize or become perforating ulcers. Follicular Ulcers, formed by inflammation and ulceration of the solitary follicles are very rare. They occur most frequently in young infants. DILATATION AND STENOSIS. Dilatation of the stomach is spontaneous or produced by stenosis. "When produced by stenosis at the pylorus, the fundus is first dilated, afterward the entire stomach. If the stenosis is at another part of the stomach, that portion of the organ which is