250 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. place a large cavity, with ragged, gangrenous, cancerous walls. Less frequently the pelvic bones are invaded in the same way. Metastatic tumors in the lymphatic glands and viscera are rare. I have seen small secondary nodules in the lungs, formed of large, flat cells closely packed in nests. Isot uiifrequently the ureters are surrounded and com- pressed by the new growth, so that they become dilated. Tlie dilatation may extend to the pelves and calices of the kidneys. (2.) The develoY)ment of the new growth is more rapid than Its destruction. AVe find large, fungous, soft masses projecting Into the vagina and the canal of the cervix. (3.) The ulceration Is more rapid than the new growth. Wc find larger or smaller ragged, ulceratins; surfaces, of which the floor and walls are composed almost entirely of gangrenous new growth and uterine tissue- The amount of the new growth which is left may be so small as to render the diagnosis be- tween carcinoma and pliagedsenic ulcer very difiicult. (4.) The new growth begins in the cervix, and extends uni- formly over the internal surface of the cervix and of the body of the uterus. The entire uterus is converted into a large sac, of which the walls are iuflltrated with the new growth, while the internal surface is ulcerating and gangrenous. (5.) In rare cases, the growth begins in the upper part of the cervix, or iu the body of the uterus, while the lower part of the cervix is not involved. (G.) In rare cases, the entire wall of the uterus is infiltrated with the now growth, and the organ Is much enlarged. Papillary EpWielial Cancer (cauliflowei- growth) Is an in- frequent form of disease. It is said that simple papilloniata may, after a time, exhibit an increased cell-growth, and epithe- lial nests in their stroma, ljut the real relationship between simple papilloma and papillary cpitlielioma of the cervix Is still not at all understood. The growth springs from tlie vaginal portion of the cervix. It appears as a lobulated, fungous mass composed of numerous tufts. It may reach such a size as to fill the vagina. The minute structure is that of tufts covered witli epithelium. In the stroma of the larger tufts, in the connec- tive tissue at the base of the growth, and in the wall of the