POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 276 tumors may be composed of round, stellate, or fusiform cells, or of pigmented cells. The basement substance may be fibrous and abundant, or scanty, or may be mucous tissue. The glan- dular tissue may disappear, or the milk-ducts may be dilated, or there may be intra-canalicular sarcomatous growths. These tumors are more frequent in young than in old women. We find, therefore, that there are fibrous, miicous, and sarco- matous tumors, in which the milk-ducts are dilated, and there are intra-canalicular growths. The gross appearance of these tumors may be the same, although their structure and charac- ters are different. Carcinoma.—Epithelial cancer, of the flat-celled form, is of rare occurrence in the mamma. It beg-ins in the skin covering; the gland, or in the nipple. Billroth describes a single case in which the glandular acini were enlarged and filled Avith hyper- trophied epithelial cells. Forster says that epithelial cancer with cvliiidrical cells is of not infrequent occurrence, and has the same course as ordinary cancer. True Carcinoma usually occurs as scirrhus, medullary, or atrophic carcinoma, sometimes in the alveolar or colloid foi'm. It is, generally speaking, a disease of advanced life. The tu- mor begins as a small, hard nodule, which increases sloAvly or quickly, and becomes fused with secondary nodules. If it grows rapidly, it may attain a considerable size, the skin is in- volved, and ulceration takes place. If the growth is slower, itlie tumor is smaller and harder, and ulceration may not take place for a long time. In some cases, the growth is very slow, there is great retraction of the new fibrous tissue, and the en- tire mamma is converted into a small, hard mass, which hardly looks like a tumor. The tumors are made up of a connective tissue stroma and ot epithelial cells. The stroma, is composed of connective tissue- fibres and cells in varying proportion. It is usually well mark- ed, sometimes forms almost the entire tumor, occasionally is very scanty. The epithelial cells are of moderate size and re- gular shapes, or large and malformed. They contain one or more nuclei. These cells are arranged in long, tubular follicles.