246 POST-MOllTEM EXAMINATIONS. of a lamellated or reticulated structure. Tlic spaces between the lamelljB or in the reticulum maybe so large that the growth has a cavernous or cystic character. If the polypus is of large size and projects through the cer- vix, it may drag down the fundus of the uterus and produce inversion of that organ. ITfemorrhages take place from the surface and in the sub- stance of these myomata. Inflammation, suppuration, and partial gangrene also occur. The surface of the tumor may look like a ragged, gangrenous mass. In some cases, the pedicle of the growth is destroyed and the tumor is spontaneously expelled. The intra-parietal myomata grow in the substance of the uterine wall, but if they attain a large size, project beneath the serous or the mucous coat. They are found in every part of the \iterus, but are most frequent in the posterior wall. The shape of the uterus is altered in every conceivable way by the presence of these growths ; its cavity is narrowed, dilat- ed, or missliaj^en; it undergoes flexion and version in every di- rection. The tumors may grow outward, betw'een the folds of the broad ligament. They may sink downward and becon)e attached to the posterior wall of the vagina, looking as if they grew from it. They may project into the cavity of the uterus, till it up, and project through the cervix, but have no pedicle like the submucous form. The uterus is dilated, its wall hypcr- trophied or atrophied. The musciilar fibres may undergo fatty degeneration, and the tumor diminish in size; cases of entire atrophy in this way are reported. Or, the muscular tissue atrophies, the connective tissue increases in amount and density, and the tumor becomes smaller and harder. Calcification may also take place, espe- cially in the smaller myomata, and convert them into a stony mass. Some of these tumors are soft. This takes place in several diflerent ways. The interstitial connective tissue may be con- verted into mucous tissue, rich in cells and infiltrated witli mucus. Or the connective tissue may undergo an ocdematous softening, while the muscular fibres atrophy. We then find the