119 THE ARTERIES. In tlie lieajling of a wounded artery, two conditions coope- rate. Tlie vessel retracts and contracts, and a thrombus is formed witliin it. The contraction may be alone sufficient to close the vessel; its coats thicken, and the inner surfaces finally are fused together; or the blood coagulates, and forms a throm- bus in the vessel near the wound. This thrombus later be- comes organized, and the vessel is converted into a fibrous cord. Spurious aneurisms are found most frequently connected with vessels of the extremities. When an artery is wounded, the blood escapes into the surrounding soft parts, and a cavity is formed filled with blood and broken-down tissue. This con- dition may terminate in several ways. (a.) The wound in the artery may heal, and the efi^'used blood be absorbed. (b.) The efifused blood and broken tissues may become gan- grenous and the surrounding soft parts be inflamed. (c.) A sort of sac-wall may be formed by the soft parts, while the wound of the artery remains open, so that we have an aneurismal sac through which the blood is constantly pour- ing. (5.) If an artery be wounded, and at the same time the vein which accompanies it, we have as the result the conditions call- ed Aneurismal Varix and Varicose Aneurism. In aneurismal varix, the artery and vein become adherent at the seat of inju- ry, so that the arterial blood passes directly into the vein. There is a smooth, rounded opening between the two vessels, the vein is dilated into a sac, and the veins emptying into it are dilated and tortuous. In varicose aneurism, the artery and vein do not communi- cate directly, but a false aneurismal sac is formed between the vessels, into which the blood is poured before passing into the vein. Varicose aneurism may also be produced by the spontaneous rupture of an aneurism into a vein. The aneurism presses against the vein, becomes adherent, and finally ruptures into it. This condition has been observed between the aorta and piil- monary artery; the aorta and inferior and superior vena cava ; the popliteal artery and vein ; the femoral artery and vein; the