THE TESTICLES. 265 others, there is calcification. Sometimes abscesses are formed, and these may perforate through the scrotum, and be accom- panied by a growth of granulation tissue which projects as a fungous mass. Syphilitic inflammation afiects principally the didymis. The tunica albuginea is thickened, and bands of fibrous tissue extend into the organ. In the new fibrous tissue, there may be gummy tumors. HYDROCELE. Hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis consists in an accumula- tion of sermn in the cavity of this membrane. It is usually confined to one side. It is caused by acute or chronic inflam- mation of the tunica vaginalis, by varicocele, or by general dropsy. The serum is found in small or in large quantities ; it is usually transparent, may contain cholesteriue, or be purulent, or be mixed with blood. When spermatic cysts of the epididy- mis open into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, the fluid con- tains spermatozoa. The tunica vaginalis remains unchanged, or is thickened, or contains plates of bone, or is covered with polypoid fibrous bodies, which fall off, and are fpund free in the cavity of the sac. There may be adhesions between the layers of the tunica vaginalis, and in this way the fiuid becomes sacculated. The testis is pushed downward and backward; it remains unchanged, or is atrophied. Hydrocele of the processus vaginalis consists in an accumu- lation of serum in the cavity of the vaginal process of the peritoneum, which remains open after the descent of the testicle. There are several different varieties. (a.) Tlie vaginal process is entirely open, and there is a free communication with the peritoneal cavity. The serum may originate in the cavity of the peritoneum, or of the vaginal pro- cess, and passes freely from one to the other. (b.) The processus vaginalis is closed in the inguinal canal, while its lower portion is filled with serum. (c.) The processus vaginalis is closed about the testis, and the visceral layer of the tunica vaginalis is formed. The serum ac-