832 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. » TRICHINIASIS. The Trichina spiralis is found in man, the pig, the dog, the cat, the rabbit, the guinea-pig, the rat, and in some birds, both in its undeveloped and in its fully developed form. In its fully developed form it is found in the small intestines, and less abundantly in the large intestine. It is a viviparous worm, with a long, rounded body, sharp at the head, rounded at the tail. The males are 1.5 mm. long, the females 2-3 mm. long. The intestinal canal runs the entire length of the body. The female organs of generation are simple, and placed for the most part in the second third of the body. The testicles are in the last third of the body. In its undeveloped form, the worm resembles a hair, is about 1 mm. long, and possesses no organs but an alimentary canal. It is rolled in a spiral form. From one to three worms are en- veloped in a capsule, which is at first thin and membranous, afterward calcified. In this condition they are scattered in im- mense numbers throughout the voluntary muscles, and may re- main so for an indefinite number of years. After a man has eaten uncooked flesh containing the unde- veloped trichina, the worms remain in his intestines, and by the second day have become fully developed and freed from their capsules. The females are impregnated, and by the eighth day bear immense numbers of young worms. By the tenth day, the young worms find their way through the connective tissue, and by the blood into the voluntary muscles. By the fourteenth day we usually find them encapsuled throughout the muscles. The muscular fibrillae become homogeneous, or break down into granular matter; the sarcolemma is thickened, and con- tracts at each end so as to form a cavity for the worm. Within this portion of the sarcolemma the cyst is formed by a harden- ing and calcification of the granular substance. At the same time there is a growth of lymphoid cells about the affected fib- rillse. New capillaries are formed about the capsule, and new muscular fibrillfe are formed to take the place of those which have been destroyed. (Wagner.) I have seen in one case, in which death took place on the four-