213 THE KIDJTEYS. found clianges in tlie nutrition of tlie body. Typhus fever, cholera, yellow fever, phthisis, chronic alcoholism, the acute exanthemata, phosphorus poisoning, and causes of like cha- racter, are the conditions vpith which this lesion is usually found. The urine contains albumen and granular casts. If the patient recovers from the acute disease, the kidney symp- toms also disappear. The gross appearances of the kidney vary with the degree of degeneration which has taken place. The kidney may be of normal size and appearance, the corti- cal markings regiilar. Or, it may be somewhat enlarged, the cortex opaque and white. Or, less frequently, the organ is congested. As a rule the capsule is not adherent, and the sur- face of the kidney is smooth. The minute changes consist in an alteration of the epithelium in the tubes of the cortex, of the pyramids, or of both. In the lesser degrees of the lesion we find the epithelium swollen so as to fill the tubes, and at the same time more distinct and sharp- ly outlined. In some of the tubes the epithelium is more gran- ular, broken-down, and detached from the wall of the tube. In other cases, the epithelium is more markedly granular, even fatty, and fills many of the tubes. There maybe hyaline cast matter in the tubes of the pyramids. There are no changes in the intertubular tissue. THE WAXY KIDNEY. It has already been mentioned that, in chronic diff'use nephri- tis, the Malpighian tufts may be waxy. This change may also involve the small arteries, the veins in the pyramids, and even the basement membranes of the tubes. We find various views, among different authors, as to the re- lationship between the waxy change in the vessels and the other changes in the kidney. Some hold that the condition is only an accidental complication of diff'use nephritis ; others that the waxy degeneration is the first and essential part of the process, and that the other kidney lesions are secondary to it. I have never seen waxy degeneration of the tufts and vessels except in the advanced stages of chronic diff'use nephritis.