15 METHOD OF EXAMINATION. right lobe usually reaches to the free border of tlie ribs, while the left lobe is visible for about an inch below the ensiforni cartilage. In women, the liver is usually lower than in men. The position of the liver is altered by changes in the tho- racic cavity, forcing it downward ; by changes in the abdomi- nal cavity, forcing it upward; by constriction of the waist by tight lacing, forcing it either downward or upward; by chan- ges in the size of the organ itself. The liver may be not only displaced downward, but dislo- cated so that its convex surface faces the abdominal wall, and its posterior edge faces upward against the diaphragm. The Stomach is situated in the left hypochondriac and epi- gastric regions, extending also into the right hypochondrium. It lies in part against the anterior wall of tlie abdomen, and in part beneath the liver and diaphragm, and above the transverse colon. Its anterior surface, which is directed upward and for- ward, is in contact above with the diaphragm and the under surface of tlie liver, and lower down with the abdominal Avail, opposite to the epigastric region. Its posterior surface is turned downward and backward, and rests upon the transverse meso- colon, the pancreas and the gi'eat vessels. Tlie lesser curvatm*e or upper border has attached to it the gastro-phrenic ligament and gastro-hepatic omentum. To the greater curvature, or lower border, is attached the gastro-colic omentum. Its cardiac orifice terminates in the oesophagus, its pyloric end in the duodenum. "When the stomach is distended, the greater curvature is elevated and carried forward, the anterior surface is turned upward, and the posterior surface downward. The organ when distended with food or gas, is prominent; when empty, may be hardly seen ; when the intestines are di- lated, may be entirely covered by them. The Transverse Colon passes from one side of the abdomen to the other through the upper part of the umbilical region. It may be lower than the umbilicus, or high up against the liver and diaphragm. It may be distended with gas or con- tracted. The Omentum should be found smoothly spread over the