13 METHOD OF EXAMINATION. tlie lateral ventricles, nearly to the pia mater. A second inci- sion is then made from this cut surface outward, and this is re- peated until the cerebrum is divided into a number of long prismatic-shaped pieces held together by the pia mater. The velum interpositum is then dissected up, and the fourth ventri- cle opened. To complete the examination, cross-sections are made through all the large ganglia, the medulla, and the cere- bellum. Care must be taken not to overlook small clots in the medulla oblongata. The Base of the Cranium.—We now return to the skull. The remaining sinuses of the dura mater should be opened. This membrane is then to be entirely stripped off from the bone. The bone is to be examined for fractures, inflammatory lesions, and new growths. The Eyes can be removed by comminuting the roof of the orbit with a hammer, removing the fragments of bone, dissect- ing away the fat and muscles, so as to expose the optic nerve and posterior half of the eye. With a pair of scissors we can then cut away that portion of the globe which is not covered by conjunctiva, and remove it with the optic nerve. The anterior portion of the globe with the cornea is left in place. The nerve and portion of the eye removed are to be placed at once in Miiller's fluid. The Sjpinal Cord.—The examination of the spinal cord may, in many cases, be dispensed with. AVhen it is necessary, it is most conveniently performed after the removal of the brain. The body should be placed face downward, with a block im- der the thorax, and the head dropping over the edge of the table. An incision is made through the skin and muscles along the entire length of the spine, and the soft parts dissected off on each side, so as to expose the laminae of the vertebral col- umn. The laminte are then divided close to the articulating processes, with the rachitome, the saw and chisel, with a sharp chisel, or with strong cutting forceps. The spinous processes and lamijise are then torn away together, and the cord exposed. The membranes of the cord may be found very considerably congested without indicating the preexistence of any disease. The roots of the spinal nerves are then to be cut across, and