EXAMINATIONS. POST-MORTEM 100 (b.) The diaphragm is absent, and the heart is found in the abdominal cavity. (e.) The heart is placed in some part of the neck or head ; this only occurs in foetuses very much malformed. (d.) The heart is transposed, being on the right side. Very rarely two more or less perfect hearts are found in the same thorax. IIYPEETEOPIIY. All the cavities of the heart may have their walls liyper- trophied, or the thickening may only involve one or more. While the wall of a ventricle is thickened, its cavity may re- tain its normal size, or be dilated or contracted. The existence of the last condition—concentric hypertrophy—is denied by some authors, affirmed by others. Hypertrophy of both ventricles increases both the length and breadth of the heart. Hypertrophy of the left ventricle (alone) increases its length. The apex is then lower and further to the left than usual. Hypertrophy of the right ventricle (alone) increases the breadth of the lieart toward the right side; but sometimes the right edge of the heart retains its normal situa- tion and the apex is displaced to the left. "With large hyper- trophy of both ventricles, the base of the heart may sink so that its long axis approaches a horizontal direction. The exact way in which hypertrophy of the heart-walls takes place, whether by increase in the size or in the number of the muscular fibrillfe, or in both ways, is not definitely deter- mined. Hypertrophy of the heart may depend upon a variety of causes. (1.) Changes in the valves, eitlier insufticiency or stenosis, produce hypertrophy in the cavities to which the valves belong. (2.) Obstruction to the passage of blood through the aortic system of vessels, by aneurisms, dilatation, atheroma, congeni- tal stenosis, the pressure of tumors, disease of the kidneys, (especially atropliy,) leads to hyperti'ophy, first of the left ven- tricle, and secondarily of the right ventricle. (3.) Obstruction to the passage of blood through the pulmo- nary artery, by stenosis, and by diseases of the lungs, produces