27 METHOD OF EXAMINATION. different healthy individuals, but usually bears a relation to the size of the body. According to Frerichs, the relative weight of the liver to that of the body, in healthy adults, varies from one twenty-fourth to one fortieth. The absolute weight is from 1.8 to 4.6 lbs. avoird. In children, the relative weight of the liver is greater. The table on page 28 is taken from Frerichs. The liver is increased in size and weight during the second stage of digestion; it is diminished in starvation, and is in- creased by congestion from any cause. The surface of the liver is now examined, then the organ is laid on its lower surface and several long and deep incisions made transversely from the convex surface downward. After examining the liver tissue, the gall bladder is opened, and the character of the bile and the presence of biliary calculi noticed. We often find the surface of the liver of a greenish or black- ish color. Less frequently this abnormal color extends into the substance of the organ. This color is produced by the action of sulphuretted hydrogen on the coloring matter of the blood. In some cases we find granules of black pigment, especially along the course of the blood-vessels. These granules are composed of sulphate of iron. They are produced by the combination of sulphuretted hydrogen with the iron of the blood. Their cha- racter can be demonstrated by treating them first with hydro- chloric acid and then with a solution of ferrocyanide of potash. After the addition of the latter solution, a blue color is pro- duced. This entire process is a post-mortem one. The Pancreas should now be examined. This organ is of oblong shape, flattened from before backward, its right ex- tremity or head is broad, its left extremity or tail is narrow, the intermediate portions or body tapers between the two. Its length is from 6 to 8 inches, its breadth \\ inches, and its thickness from -g- to 1 inch. Its weight is from 2 to 6 oimces. The organ may be rounded instead of flattened, the head and tail may be disproportionately large. The tail may be prolong- ed or may divide into several processes, or be curved. At the position of the mesenteric artery and vein, the pancreas is