POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 140 The pressure of an aneurism of the arch of the aorta on the ascending vena cava may cause an intense and uniform con- gestion of tlie mucous membrane, which can hardly be distin- guislied from acute gastritis. Crouj)ous Gastritis is of rare occurrence. It is found in children with croupous inflammation of the phar^mx and oesophagus, and is then usually in small patches. In adults, it is almost always secondary to typhus, pyjEmia, puerperal fever, cholera, dysentery, the exanthemata, and irritating poisons. The false membrane is in small patches, or may line a large part of the stomach. The disease is usually not diagnosticated during life, the symptoms of the primary disease diverting at- tention from the gastritis. I have seen one case of idiopathic croupous gastritis in an adult. A man, 46 years old, was in good health until eight days before his death. At that time he caught cold, had pains over his bowels, tenderness over the liver, constipation, cough with mucous expectoration, temperature 102J°, pulse 120. On the day of his death, the 8th day of the disease, the temperature was 100°, pulse 112, tongue dry, abdomen tympanitic and ten- der, and he died in a prolonged attack of syncope. At the autopsy all the viscera were examined. Excepting evidences of bronchitis in the lungs, there were no lesions save in the stomach. About f of the internal surface of the stomach, in- cluding the lesser curvature and anterior and posterior walls, appeared to be covered with a thick false membrane, which did not quite reach to the cardiac or pyloric orifices. Minute ex- amination showed that there was a layer of exudation on the internal surface of the mucous membrane. This exudation consisted of fibrillated fibrine aiul lymphoid cells, dipping into the mouths of the follicles. Beneath the exudation the mucous membrane was thickened and altered. A large number of lymphoid cells separated the follicles, and even replaced them entirely. The submucous, layer was very much thickened by the presence of lymphoid cells, fibrillated fibrine, and fibrous tissue. The muscular coat was separated into layers by groups of lymphoid cells. Parenchymatous Gastritis, Gastradenitis, Parenchymatous