6 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. tlien there is coagulation of the niyosine, and loss of elasticity ; then the muscular tissue becomes acid. When this acidity has reached its height, the muscle becomes softer, and the rigor mortis gradually disappears. Finally the acid condition is succeeded by an alkaline fermentation, and decomposition ensues. The rigor mortis generally' begins in the muscles of the lower jaw and back of the neck; it then extends to those of the face, neck, thorax, arms, and finally the legs. It usually disappears in the same order. It usually begins in from 8 to 20 hours after death, but often much sooner. The bodies of persons killed on the field of bat- tle, and of those who have been drowned, sometimes seem to be overtaken by the rigor mortis at the very instant of death. The bodies retain the same position and the face the same expres- sion which they had in the last moments of life. The rigor mortis may continue for from one to nine days. Generally, but not always, death from narcotic poisons is fol- lowed by a feeble and short rigidity. It is said that death by lightning is followed by rapid and in- tense rigidity. Casper says that in foetuses born before term he has never observed any rigidity, and that in young children it is feeble and of short duration. It is asserted by some and denied by others that death from suffocation is followed by a short and feeble rigidity. The degree and duration of rigor mortis after death from violence, from different diseases, etc., is stated so variously and so contradictorily by different observers, that no definite rules can be given concerning it. The temperaixi^re of the living body is 98째 to 99째 F. In consequence of disease, the temperature may be increased several degrees. After death, the body gradually cools to the same point as the surrounding air. This is said to take place in from fifteen to twenty hours. Taylor, from the examina- tion of one hundred bodies, states that the average heat of the skin of the abdomen at a period of two to three hours after death is 77째; at four to six hours, 74:째 ; at six to eight hours.