22 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. Each kidney in turn is then taken up. An incision through the capsule is made along the convex edge of the kidney, and this membrane stripped off from it. We notice the degree of adhe- rence of the capsule to the kidney, and also the surface of the latter, whether smooth or roughened, pale or congested. An incision is then made along the convex surface down to the pel- vis, so that the organ is divided into two halves. We observe the relative thickness of the cortical and pyramidal portions, as well as the size of the entire organ. To ascertain the latter point, it is well to weigh each kidney: the normal weight is from 4:^ to 6 oz. It is necessary to remember, however, that in a kidney which is a good deal atrophied there may be an in- crease of fat in the pelvis, which gives the organ nearly its nor- mal size and weight, while the kidney tissue proper has really in great measure disappeared. We now inspect more closely the kidney tissue, especially the cortical portion. It is well known that the pyramids consist of tubes running nearly in straight lines from the apex to the base of each pyramid. These straight tubes pass from the pyra- mids into the cortex in bundles, retaining their straight course until they nearly reach the surface of the kidney, then bending over on each side, become convoluted and end in malpighian bodies. In this way, the cortex of the kidney is divided up into alternate bands of straight and convoluted tubes, both sets of bands being perpendicular to the surface of the kidney. About the convoluted tubes is a rich venous plexus, and as the blood usually remains after death in this plexus and in the malpighian bodies, the bands containing the convoluted tubes appear red, while those containing the straight tubes are grayish white. In a normal kidney, therefore, the cortex should be regularly striped in red and white bands. If there be extensive conges- tion, the entire cortex is red. If the epithelium of the tubes degenerates and fills them up, or if there are changes in the interstitial tissue, the regular bands are lost and the cortex is irregularly mottled. If the tubal epithelium becomes filled with oil globules, this is indicated by an opaque yellow color of the parts affected. In many cases, therefore, the existence of kid- ney disease can be recognized with the naked eye. To deter-