POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 330 men by contagion. According to some authors, it may be idio- pathic in the human subject. In the horse, we find four varieties of tlie disease: Chronic and acute glanders, chronic and acute farcy. (1.) Chronic Glanders.—The disease begins in the mucous membrane of the nose. Small, whitish nodules, composed of small round cells, are formed in the mucous membrane. These nodules soften and ulcerate. The same nodules may be found in the larynx, trachea, and bronchi. The ulcerations may remain superficial, or they may extend and attack the subjacent cartilage and bone. Nodules of the same kind may be found in the lungs. (2.) Acute Glanders.—There is the same formation of no- dules, which soften and ulcerate; but they are accompanied with an intense inflammation of the nasal mucous membrane, and the disease runs a rapid course. (3.) Chronic Farcy.—The lymphatic glands and vesicles be- come enlarged, and nodules are formed in the skin, lungs, and other viscera. The glands become cheesy, or soften and sup- purate. The cutaneous nodules soften and suppurate. (4.) Acute Farcy.—There are the same lesions of the lym- phatics, and nodules and abscesses are found in the skin. Tliere are also nodules in, and inflammation of, the nasal mucous membrane, and the disease runs an acute course. In man, the disease occurs in an acute and chronic form, but does not exactly resemble any of the varieties of the disease in the horse. The acute disease runs a rapid and malignant course. The skin may be covered with a pustular eruption. Furuncles, car- buncles, and abscesses beneath the skin and in the muscles are found. Nodules are found in the nasal mucous membrane, the lungs, kidneys, testes, spleen, and liver. The joints may be inflamed, and there may be osteo-myelitis. The disease may begin at a single point, so that it may be mistaken for a carbuncle, or a gangrenous erysipelas. Graefe gives a case which began as an acute exophthalmos, and the nature of the disease was not ascertained until after death. There were little nodules in the choroid coat of the e^Q.