THE OVARIES. 253 In other cases, the ovary itself is but little changed, but is sur- rounded by a mass of fibrinous and purulent exudation. Sucli idiopathic forms of inflammation may terminate in recover}^; or the abscesses may perforate into the rectum and vagina; or the ovary is left indurated and bound down by adhesions; or the patient dies from the violence of the disease. Idiopathic inflammation of the ovaries unconnected witli the puerperal condition is rare. It is confined to one ovary. Eitlier the follicles, stroma, or capsule may be involved. The inflamed follicles appear enlarged, their walls tliickened; they contain bloody or purulent serum. The stroma becomes infiltrated with serum or pus ; and later, we find abscesses or fibrous indu- ration of the organ. The inflammation of the capsxile leads to formation of membranous adhesions between the ovary, Fallo- pian tube, and adjoining organs. NEW GROWTHS. Cysts.—(1.) The Graafian follicles may be dilated so as to form cysts. This usually occurs only in one ovary; sometimes in both. Tlie follicles become enlarged, filled with serum, the ovum disappears, and we find cysts with thin walls, lined witli pavement epithelium, and containing serum. Sometimes we find the cyst lined Avith cylindrical or even ciliated epithelium. There are usually a number of such cysts, all of small size. Sometimes, however, one cyst will attain a very large size. Tlie fiuid contained in it will be serous, viscid, purulent, or mixed with blood. There maybe fibrous outgrowths from the interior of the cyst-wall. Such cysts usually are found after middle life, but may occur during youth, childhood, and even in the foetus. A variety of this form of cyst is formed by the dilatation of a follicle containing a corpus luteimi. A thin layer of clot is then found lining the walls of the cyst. Such cysts ma}- com- municate with the Fallopian tubes. (2.) Composite Colloid Cysts.—This is the most common form of ovarian cyst. Either one or both ovaries are affected. Tlie cysts are found from the size of a walnut to that of the preg- nant uterus. The gross appearance varies according to the size, number, contents, and stroma of the cysts. r