POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 268 ma was composed of fibrous tissue, in Avhicli were a few minute nodules of cartilage, and, in a few places, long, narrow, striated cells looking like embryonic striped muscle. These tumors are usually considered benign ; but Billroth mentions a case in which the removal of the testicle Avas fol- lowed by the growth of a retro-peritoneal carcinoma. Sarcoma occurs both in the testis and epididymis. The tu- mors may attain a considerable size, are soft, with little stroma, or with a mucous basement substance; the cells mostly fusi- form, belonging to the medullary and myxo-sarcomata. In some cases, we find cysts and canals lined with epithelium, and containing fluid, colloid matter, or epithelial contents. The canals and cysts are probably formed from the spermatic tu- bules. Myoma.—A new growth of striped muscular fibres has been observed in four tumors of the testicle, in cases which are de- scribed as cystoid growths. The muscle was in the form of fusiform cells, with well-marked striation. I can add two other cases. In one, the tumor Avas removed by Dr. H. B, Sands, in May, 1868. It occurred in a middle-aged man, and was eighteen months in growing. The tumor weighed twenty-eight ounces, was confined to the epididymis, inclosed in the thick- ened albuginea, was soft and succxilent, and contained many cysts. It consisted of connective tissue-fibres; of large num- bers of long, fusiform cells; of long, fusiform, nucleated cells resembling embryonic striped muscle; of similar cells with marked striations ; of large, Avell-shaped, striped muscular fibres, inclosed in their sarcolenima; of large, oblong, and round striated bodies looking like portions of muscular fibres. In the second case, the tumor was removed by Dr. Wood. It was a compound cystic tumor. In a few places, there were numbers of long, narrow, striated cells. Carcinoma usually involves only one testicle. It is most frequently primary. It begins in the testis or the epididymis, rarely in the tunica vaginalis. The tumors are usually large, soft, succulent, often hsemorrhagic, or may be cystic. They are composed of a stroma, forming rounded spaces, in whicli are large, nucleated, rounded, or polygonal cells. The tunica albu-