321 MALARIAL FEVERS, The presence of this pigment in the blood gives to the ditfe- rent organs of the body a peculiar, dark color, varying in shade according to the proportion of pignaent. Sometimes the change in color is not perceptible to the naked eye, and only microscopic examination shows the pigment in the vessels. The pigment is distributed in very different amounts in the different organs. Tlie Spleen is the organ in which the pigment is found in the greatest amount and most constantly. Here it is difficult to ascertain whether the pigment is entirely in the vessels, or also in the parenchyma. The spleen will be found of reddish brown, olive, or black color. It is usually enlarged, sometimes enormously so; its consistence may be normal, or soft, or firm. In mild intermittent fever, the spleen may be much enlarged and not pigmented. The Liver is almost as frequently and intensely pigmented as the spleen. It is of a light or dark brown, or olive, or black color. The pigment will be found in the venous and arterial capillaries and small veins. Sometimes, while the change in color of the liver is so slight as hardly to be appreciated, a stnall amount of pigment will still be found in the capillaries. The liver may be of normal size, or large and congested, or small. The hepatic cells usually appear perfectly normal. In some cases there is intense congestion, and even haemorrhages, in the substance of the organ. The Brain is much less frequently affected. In marked cases, the gray matter of the convolutions and ganglia appears of a dark gray color, contrasting strongly with the white mat- ter. Sometimes there are multitudes of little capillary apo- plexies. The pigment will be found in the small vessels and capillaries of the pia mater and gray matter. It may accumulate in the vessels so as to obstruct them, and produce the capillary apo- plexies just mentioned. In other parts of the body the pigmentation is usually not sufficient to be seen with the naked eye. Careful microscopical examination, however, will very often detect pigment in the? 21