289 THE BONES. After a time, the rachitic process may stop, and the bones take on a more normal character. The porous bone tissue becomes compact and even unnaturally dense, the swellings at the epiphyses disappear, many of the deformed bones may be- come of a normal shape. In severe cases, however, the defor- mities continue through life; especially is there a cessation of the growth of the bones in their long axis, so that the persons affected are dwarfed. The disease may have an acute or a chronic character. The acute form begins usually during the first six months of life. The children sulfer from vomiting, diarrhoea, profuse sweating, chronic bronchitis and pneumonia, general anaemia, and wasting. They either die, or the rachitic process is gradu- ally developed. The chronic form is seen in older children, and often in those apparently healthy. The changes in the bones may take place without any constitutional symptoms, though there is often catarrhal bronchitis, pneumonia, and anaemia. OSTEOMALACIA. This disease consists in a softening of the adult bones. It occurs in adults, most frequently in females during pregnancy and after parturition ; rarely in adult males and females without known cause. In puerperal women, the disease begins in the pelvic bones; in other cases, in the vertebrae and walls of the thorax. In all cases, it has a tendency to involve a large part of the entire skeleton. The disease begins with a simple disappearance of the cal- careous matter around the Haversian canals and medullary cavities, leaving the bone-cartilage and bone-cells intact. Af- terward this osteoid tissue breaks down, and is replaced by the exuberant medulla. When the disease is fully developed, we find the medulla intensely congested, the fat-cells disappear, the lymphoid cells are increased enormously in number. The congestion may then diminish, and the medulla looks like a pale jelly. The compact bone becomes soft and spongy, the walls of the diploe become thinner and thinner until, in the worst cases, there is 19