179 THE LIVER. nective tissue, its distribution, its vascularity, and the condition of the hepatic cells. In the least advanced condition, we find the liver of normal size or larger, not congested, fii-mer and smoother than usual, of a light red or yellow color, with a peculiar glistening reflex, like that of a waxy liver. The edges of the acini are sur- rounded by a light yellow streak, which is composed of connec- tive tissue fibres, with a variable number of cells. The hepatic cells are usually normal, sometimes fatty. In other cases, the liver is increased in size, its edges rounded, of a yellowish brown color, its surface slightly uneven, its cap- sule thickened. Groups of acini are surrounded by bands of red- dish gray, vascular connective tissue. When the lesion is far advanced, the liver is usually much diminished in size; sometimes, however, it is very much larger than the normal. The capsule is thickened, the surface is strikingly irregular, and thrown into nodules of variable size. These nodules are of a yellow color, or stained green by the bile. They are surrounded by a layer of dense white or pinkish connective tissue. The increase of connective tissue takes place about each acinus separately, or about groups of acini, or in both ways. The new tissue is composed of fibrous tissue alone, or is largely cellular. The degree of vascularity also varies, and gives different shades of color. The relative amount of cells and fibres in the new connective tissue does not seem to indicate an early or late stage of the disease ; for in cases where the lesion is of long standing, and the liver atrophied, the cells are sometimes abundant. The hepatic cells usually become fatty, or may be waxy or pigmented, or are broken down and destroyed. The pigment is derived from the bile, and is of a yellow or green color; or from the blood, and is reddish brown. The smaller branches of the portal vein are narrowed and compressed by the new connective tissue. Sometimes the main trunk and large branches are dilated. When the new connective tissue has replaced the hepatic structure, the capil- lary venous plexus is entirely destroyed, and there are only irregular vessels which can be injected from the portal vein and