THE STOMACH. 139 ulcers or cancer, the source of the h£emorrhage is easily dis- covered. But when the bleeding is from the capillaries in con- sequence of obstruction to the portal circulation, no lesions are to be found in the mucous membrane, excepting sometimes ec- chymoses. In relapsing fever, scurvy, purpura, and such diseases, the haemorrhage may be in the wall of the stomach, which then pre- sents a mottled red and gray color, or the superficial layers of the mucous membrane soften and fall off over such haemor- rhages, leaving little depressions—hsemorrhagic erosions. INFLAJLMATION. Acitte Catarrhal Gastritis is but seldom seen in autopsies, and does not present constant lesions. The mucous membrane may be red and swollen, covered Avith a layer of mucus and epithelium ; or the liypersemia, which existed during life, may disappear after death, and the stomach present no lesions. Chronic Catarrhal Gastritis is, on the other hand, very com- mon, but its lesions are not always pronounced. In the ad- vanced cases, the mucous membrane is red, white, or slate- colored, and thickened. The thickening is uniform, or it is punctate, giving the appearance of numerous little promi- nences—etat mamelonne. The gastric follicles atrophy, and the connective tissue between them is increased. At the same time the muscular coat is hypertrophied, and the thickening may be so great as to cause stenosis of the pylorus. Sometimes there are polypoid outgrowths from the mucous membrane, and some- times its glands become cystic. Less frequently hsemorrhagic erosions and ulcers are also found. In the lesser degrees of the disease, the miieons membrane is congested uniformly or in spots; or it is white and anaemic, or of an irregular slate-color. The pyloric portion of the stomach is the most frequent seat of these different lesions. Chronic catarrhal gastritis is either a sequence of acute catarrhal inflammation and due to the same causes—chanofes of temperature, irritating food or drugs, alcoholic drinks, and chronic diseases, such as phthisis—or it is caused by obstruc- tions to the venous circulation in the liver, heart, or lungs.