POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS, 236 one tube. On the side where the other horn should have been developed, there is no tube, or only a rudimentary one. Both ovaries are usually present. The two cornua may be fully developed, but their lower ends remain separated, and form a double uterus. An entire separa- tion into two distinct uteri and vaginaa is very rare. More fre- quently, the utenis consists of one body, divided by a septum into two cavities. There are then two cervical portions of the uterus projecting into a single vagina, or each into a separate vagina. Or there is only a single cervix. The septum in the uterus may be complete, or only partial. We also find abnormal size of the uterus, abnormal flexions ; the cervix may be solid, or may be closed by the vaginal mu- cous membrane. CHANGES IN SIZE. In the new-born infant, the uterus is small, the body flattened, the cervix disproportionately large. During childhood, the or- gan increases in size, but the body remains small in proportion to the cervix. At puberty, the shape changes, and the body be- comes larger. Its length is then two to three inches; its breadth, sixteen to twenty lines; its thickness, eight to twelve lines. At every menstruation the uterus is somewhat swollen and congested. After pregnancy, it does not return to its vir- gin size, but remains somewhat larger. In old age, it gradually becomes smaller; its walls are harder and more fibrous. Ahnormal Smallness of the uterus is sometimes found as an arrest of development. Tlie uterus in adult life retains the size and shape of that of the infant. Atrophy of the uterus results from chronic endometritis, from repeated pregnancies, from puerperal endometritis, and from old age. Its walls are friable, its size is diminished, its cavity is smaller, or is distended with mucus. Large myomata some- times cause marked atrophy of the uterine wall. Atrophy of the vaginal portion of the uterus is sometimes observed after repeated pregnancies, sometimes without known cause. Narrowing and obliteration of the cavity of the uterus and