106 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. nmscular fibres. A layer of connective tissue separates tlie en- docardium from the muscular tissue of the heart. The valves are formed by a duplicature of the endocardium, so that there is on each face of the valve a layer of epithelium, an elastic layer, and in the centre a thin layer of connective tissue. Blood and lymph vessels are found in the endocardium. In intra-uterine life, endocarditis usually attacks the right ventricle; after birth, the left ventricle. The valves are the jiortion of the endocardium which is most frequently diseased. Rheumatism, Bright's Disease, and the severe febrile diseases are considered the usual causes of endocarditis, but there are many cases for which no cause can be found. The most moderate degree of inflammation manifests itself in a simple swelling of the valves. The valves are thickened and feel succulent and elastic. The swelling seems to be due to a simple swelling of the anatomical elements, with some in- crease in number of their connective tissue-cells. Another mild form exhibits itself in a simple opacity and thickening of the endocardium. This is usually seen in the left ventricle, in its upper part on the posterior wall; it may or may not be associated with disease of the valves. In more intense inflammation, the increase of cells is more evi- dent, so that we see little granulations on the valves or other parts of the endocardium. The cells increase in number till they reach the inner surface of the endocardium, and break through in a little fungous mass. On this roughened surface fibrine from the blood in the heart may be deposited so as to form vegetations of considerable size. Sometimes the cell pro- duction may be so great that minute abscesses are formed in and beneath the endocardium. Much more common than all of these clianges is chronic en- docarditis, or atheroma, as it is more often called. The pro- cess consists in a production of small round cells, in the substance of the endocardium, followed by granular, fatty, or calcific de- generation. So that we find in the endocardium patches of an opaque, cheesy substance, made up of granules and debris of cells ; or calcareous plates. Over these patches, the inner layer of the endocardium may be destroyed and tlie })utches may re-