248 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. cervix; (3) as large papillary growths from tlie cervix. The structure is that of papilloe, or branching tufts formed of a stroma of connective tissue and vessels, and covered with epi- thelium. I'he larger growths are closely related to epithelial cancer, and after a time exhibit a growth of epithelial cells which places them unmistakably in that class. In some of the smaller polypi, the vessels may be so large and numerous as to give the growtli a cavernous structure. In others, the follicles of the mucous membrane are present in large amount. Angioma.—Virchow describes a single case of a small caver- nous angioma in the wall of the uterus. Cysts.—In the cervix uteri the mucous follicles are fre- quently dilated so as to form cysts filled with colloid matter and epithelium—ovula Nabothi. Sometimes there is an inflam- matory growth of connective tissue around these cysts, so that they resemble the molluscum of the skin. In other cases, the cysts may project from the mucous membrane until they take tlie form of a polypus. The same changes are found less fre- quently in the mucous membrane of the body of the uterus. In rare cases, serous and dermoid cysts are found in the wall of the uterus. Tahercles.—We sometimes find the cavity of the uterus and of the Fallopian tubes lined with a yellow, cheesy mass. This is said to be produced by the degeneration of multitudes of gray, miliary tubercles scattered through the mucous membrane. SijphilitiG Gummata are occasionally found in the uterine wall in theibrm of whitish, rounded nodules. Sarcoma occurs as a metaplasia in myomata of the uterus, forming myo-sarcomata. There is a growth of round, fusiform, and stellate cells, and of mucous tissue replacing the muscular and fibrous tissue. At the same time, large and small C3'st3 may be formed in the tumor. Sarcoma also occurs as a primary growth from the uterine mucous membrane. The tumors may grow from a large part of the internal surface of the uterus, or they may assume a polypoid shape. In the latter case, large portions have been removed at successive operations, followed by recurrence.