21 METHOD OF EXAMINATION. and oesophagus are torn out, cutting the oesophagus just above the stomach. If the contents of the stomach are to be preserved, a ligature is placed around the oesophagus just below the point at which it is cut off. We now with the enterotome slit up the pharynx and oeso- phagus on their posterior surfaces. The mucous membrane thus exposed is examined for evidences of caustic poisons, of inflam- mation, of new growths, strictures, etc. The enterotome is then introdiiced into the larynx, and this organ and the trachea are laid open by an incision through their posterior walls. Here we look for oedema of the aryteno-epi- glottidean folds, (oedema glottidis,) and for the evidences of catarrhal, croupous, ulcerative, and syphilitic inflammation, l^ew growths of various kinds, and diseases of the laryngeal cartillages are also met with. CEdema and redness of the larynx may be produced by post-mortem changes, especially in bodies which have been kept for several days in cold weather. To preserve the larynx and trachea for microscopical examina- tion, I have obtained the best results by suspending them in a jar, containing equal parts of alcohol and of a solution of Potass. Bichrom., gr. xv. to the 11 of water. The proportion of alco- hol is to be afterward increased until the mucous membrane is hard enough to be cut into thin sections. T7te Abdomen.—We now return to the abdominal cavity. We first dissect oflf the omentum. If tubercles of the peritoneum exist, they are best seen and studied in the omentum. The colon is then raised up and dissected free, to the coecum on one side, and to the rectum on the other. The colon and small intestines are then drawn first to the right and then to the left side, so as to expose in turn the left and right kidneys. As each kidney is brought into view, an incision is made through the peritoneum over the track of the ureter. The ureter is then followed out from the kidney to the bladder and its condition ascertained. The Kidneys are then removed, separating the peritoneum and fat from them with the hand and dividing the vessels with the knife. At the same time we remove the suprarenal cap- sules, which are attached to the upper end of each kidney.