152 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. (b.) Acquired.—This is produced by wounds or ruptures of tlie diaphragm, or tlie hernia projects through one of the na- tural openings of the diaphragm, or tlirongh an opening formed by a fat hernia. (11.) Hernia Hetroperitoncealis.—The intestine passes into the fossa jejuno-duodenalis. It consists of a small part of the jejunum, or of most of the small intestines. It is covered with a duplicature of peritoneum from the posterior abdominal Avail. For a detailed account of hernia, the text-books on surgery should be consulted. INCAECEEATION. (1.) The most common form is that in which a portion of intes- tine is strangulated by a librous band. Such fibrous bands are produced by peritonitis, or are remains of foetal growth. They pass from the intestines to the abdominal wall, or from one part of the intestines to another. The intestine becomes in some way caught under one of these bands, and is compressed by it. The stricture thus produced may cause a gradual accumulation of fieces in the intestine above it, and may last for a long time before death ensues. In other cases, the stricture interferes at once with the circulation of the blood ; the intestine is intense- ly congested, becomes gangrenous, and death takes place with tlie symptoms of general peritonitis. (2.) A portion of intestine becomes caught in some abnor- mal opening in the mesentery or omentum, or in the foramen of Winslow, or between the two layers of the mesentery. (3.) A coil of intestine makes half a turn at its base, so that the two sides of the loops cross at its base. In this way, the lu- men of the intestine is completely closed, and the vessels are compressed, so that congestion, peritonitis, and gangrene result. This form of incarceration is most freqiient in the ascending colon. In the small intestine it only occurs when the gut is fix- ed by old adhesions. (4.) A portion of the intestine, with its mesentery, makes one or more complete turns on itself, closing the canal, and com- pressing the vessels. (5.) A portion of the intestine makes a half or entire turn