210 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. all practitioners are familiar; attended during life with albu- men and casts in the urine, with changes in the quantity and composition of the urine, with oedema of the face and legs, with various other symptoms, and ending, sooner or later, in the death of the patient. The disease begins, for the most part, very slowly and insi- diously. Very often it is impossible to fix the precise date of its commencement. It has no acute stao;e, but beo-ins as a chro- nic change. Less frequently, it succeeds acute diffuse nephritis and chronic congestion of the kidney. The gross changes in the kidneys affected by this disease are widely different; the minute changes are much more constant. The kidneys are of normal size, are enlarged, or are atrophied. The kidneys, which are of normal size, are but little changed in appearance, except that the cortical markings are irregular, and the capsule is adherent; or the surface is slightly nodular ; or the cortex is white, or grayish, or mottled white, gray, yellow, and red, and the organ looks as if it were atrophied from a pre- vious condition of enlargement. The large kidneys present their cortices of a Avhite, gray, yellow, or mottled color. Their siirfaces are nodular; their capsules adherent. The cortices are thickened ; the pyramids are enlarged, red, and at their bases radiate in red and white streaks. The atrophied kidneys exhibit all degrees of smallness. Both the cortex and pyramids are diminished in size. Their surfaces are nodular, and their capsules adherent. The fat aboi;t the pelvis is sometimes increased, so that the kidneys seem to be atrophied from within. The cortex is red, white, gray, or yel- low, in a great variety of combinations and shades. The tex- ture of the organ is firm. There may be cysts of various sizes throughout the kidney. The minute changes in chronic diffuse nephritis arc present in variable relative proportion, and in variable degrees of devel- opment. The tubes are usually, but not always, dilated both in the cortex and pyramids. The dilatation may be slight, or so great as to form cysts visible with the naked eye. In the atro-