71 THE BRONCHI. is produced by stoppage of tlie bronchi and consequent non- aeration of portions of lung tissue. The portions so affected are dense, firm, non-aerated, of a deep purple color, the section is smooth and dry, resembling foetal lung. Portions of lung in a condition of atalectasis may become inflamed, and thus a com- plicated condition be produced. Chronic Catarrhal Bronchitis is usually a disease of adult life. The mucous membrane of the bronchi is of a deep red color, or pale, or grayish, soft, thickened or thinned, granular or reticulated. This reticulated or trabeculated appearance is found in the lungs of persons subject to long-continued cough. The longitudinal and transverse fibrous bands of the bronchial wall become separated, the tissues between them atrophied, so that the wall assumes a trabeculated appearance. "When the bronchi are cut across, muco-pus exudes from them. It is very common.to find the lungs emphysematous, or with some degree of fibrous induration, or congested and oedematous. In some cases the exudation becomes foul and stinking, and the walls of the bronchi black and gangrenous. Sometimes the exudation is entirely purulent, or of a greenish watery character. It is ex- pectorated in large quantities, and causes gradual emaciation and death o^ the patient. Especially in these last cases we find dila- tation of the bronchi. Chronic bronchitis and emphysema may give a clinical history very closely resembling that of phthisis. They are sufficient of themselves to cause death, and even sud- den death. From the obstructions in the bronchi, the air-cells may be abnormally dilated and the whole lung expanded : this condition is not to be confounded with emphysema. Croupous Bronchitis occurs in children in connection with croupous laryngitis and tracheitis. The larger bronchi, and more rarely the smaller, are lined or filled with a mass com- posed of coagulated fibrine and lymphoid cells. Sometimes the exudation will be continuous through a set of bronchi and a complete cast of them will be coughed up. In adults, the disease is idiopathic, or a complication of croup- ous pneumonia. "When idiopathic, it may run an acute course, or last for months and years, Avith repeated expectorations of