254 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. The gvowtli consists of a fibrous stroma, in wliicli arc tubular follicles lined with cylindrical epithelium, and containing colloid matter and rounded cells. The cysts are formed by the dilata- tion of these follicles. There may be a great number of follicles equally dilated, so as to form a number of cysts of moderate size; or only a few follicles are enormously dilated to form a large multilocular cyst, with but few compartments. The walls of the cysts may fuse together, and be absorbed so as to form one large cyst divided by incomplete septa. The stroma in which the follicles and cysts are imbedded may be largely de- veloped or very scanty. The walls of the follicles and smaller cysts are lined with cylindrical epithelium. They contain col- loid matter mixed with a variable number of rounded colls. Sometimes the cells coptain globules of colloid matter. The M-alls of the larger cysts are composed of fibrous tissue. Tliey may be thin and membranous ; or we find developed on their internal surfaces an intra-cystic growth composed of a fibroiis stroma and tubular follicles. These secondary follicles may also be filled with colloid matter, and form cysts. The intra- cystic growths may be so large as to fill up the original cysts. Sometimes the intra-cystic growth presents very little dilatation of its follicles, so that the entire tumor has more the character of a solid growth than of a cyst. The contents of the larger cysts are serum or colloid matter of variable consistence and color, and mixed Avith blood or pus. The cyst-walls may be- come inflamed and covered with fibrine or pus. The cysts may rupture into the abdominal cavity, or may be discharged through the intestine or through the abdominal wall. The structure of these cysts is, therefore, that of a cystic ade- noma. In some of these cysts, the formation of fibrous tufts, covered with epithelium, becomes the most prominent feature of the growth. Here, as in the cylindrical-celled epithelial can- cers, we find the close relationship between follicles lined with epithelium and tufts covered with ei^ithclium. In many of the cysts in which the formation of follicles and their dilatation is well shown, the growth of tufts to a limited extent is also seen. Ihit there arc other cysts in which the