POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 150 canals wliicli ai'e normally closed, oi" tliroiigli tliiu portions of tlie abdominal wall. Hernite, therefore, oecnr in a variety of situations. (1.) Hernia inguinalis. — (a.) The hernia is congenital. The processus vaginalis of the peritoneum remains open, a por- tion of the intestines passes through into the scrotum, and is free in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. (b.) The hernia is acquired. It is oblique and formed by a projection of the intestines through the internal ring, inguinal canal, and external ring into the sci'otuni. The intestines push before them the peritoneum, which incloses them as their sac. Or it is direct, and the intestines pass through some part of the abdominal wall internal to the epigastric artery, and tlien through the external ring. They are covered with a sac of peritoneum. (2.) Hernia femoralls.—-The intestine, covered by a sac of peri- toneum, passes through the femoral ring, descends along the crural canal in the inner compartment of the sheath of the femoral vessels as far as the saphenous opening; through this opening it escapes into the areolar tissue of the groin. The hernia may only pass into the femoral canal, and not escape through the saphenous opening; it may continue along the course of the vein beyond the sapheno^^s opening; or it may project through several openings in the sheath of the vessels. This form of hernia is most frequent in the female. When in- complete, it not infrequently escapes observation during life. (3.) Hernia umbilicalis. (a.) Congenital.—In the foetal condition a portion of the ile- um lies within the umbilical cord. If this coil of intestine does not pass back into the abdomen, and the regular closure of the umbilicus does not take place, there remains a sac, lined with peritoneum, filled with intestine, and from the end of the sac the umbilical cord is continued. The sac may contain only a small portion of intestine, or nearly all the abdominal viscera. The wall of the sac is thin, and may rupture before or at the time of birtli. In other cases, either spontaneously or by surgical interference, the sac is obliterated and the hernia re- duced.