37 THE NEW-BORN INFANT. position. There may be small extravasations of blood beneath the pericardium in still-born children, and in those born alive. Pericarditis with effusion of serum and fibrine may exist be- fore birth. The time of the closure of the foramen ovale and of the ductus arteriosus varies very widely in different cases. Endocarditis with consequent changes in the valves may exist during intra-uterine life. Malformations and malpositions of the heart-cavities and large vessels are not infrequent. The pleural cavities contain very little serum. Decomposi- tion may increase the amount of serum and stain it red. Small extravasations of blood in the sub-pleural tissue are found in children which have died before birth, and after protracted labors. Inflammation with exudation of serum, fibrine, and pus may exist before birth. The Lungs in a still-born foetus are small, do not cover the heart, are situated in the upper and posterior portion of the thorax, are of a dark red color and of firm, liver-like consistence, and do not crepitate. ,In a child born alive and which has respired freely, the lungs fill the thoracic cavity, are of a light red color, and crepitate. If respiration has been incompletely performed, we find various intermediate conditions between the foetal and the inflated states. If there is any doubt as to respiration having taken place, it is customary to employ the hydi'ostatic test. This is done by placing the lungs, first together and afterward cut into small pieces, in water. If they sink, the child has not breathed; if they float, it has. The test is not, however, a certain one. Taylor says: 1. That the hydrostatic test can only show whether a child has or has not breathed, not whether it was born alive or dead. 2. That the lungs of children who have lived after birth may sink in water, owing to their not having received air, or to their being in a diseased condition. 3. That a child may live for some time with the lungs only partly inflated. 4. That a child may live for twenty-four hours, when no part of its lungs has been penetrated by air.