361 TUMOES. the muscular elements may atrophy and disappear, leaving only fibrous tissue; or the blood-vessels may become dilated, and form a cavernous tumor. Combinations of myoma Igevicellulare, with cysts, sarcoma, and carcinoma, are not infrequent. The myomata may be single or multiple. They occur most frequently after middle age. Their growth is slow, and they may become stationary, or even atrophy. Their significance is purely local. The most frequent seat of these tumors is the uterus. Here they are found usually at the fundus, are multiple, and are intra-parietal, submucous or subserous. The subserous and sub- mucous varieties often have a polypoid form, with a small pedi- cle. This pedicle may atrophy, and the tumor be left uncon- nected with the uterus. In the cervix uteri, vagina, broad liga- ments and ovaries, these tumors are less common. Less frequently, myomata are found in the oesophagus, stomach, and intestines. A certain number of the enlarge- ments of the prostate are due to the growth of myomata in this organ. VIII. Glioma.—This name is given to tumors which are composed of neuroglia. The neuroglia is the connective tissue of the brain. It is composed of a basement substance, which is amorphous and finely granular, or fibrillated, and of small, pale, round and oval cells, imbedded in the basement substance. The gliomata are composed of this same tissue, but with an increased number of cells. They are found in the brain, cranial nerves, and spinal cord. They look rather like hy|3ertrophies of some portion of the brain than like separate new growths. Their consistence is soft and mottled by small haemorrhages, or hard, with a denser basement substance. There is a form of retinal tumor, to which the name of glioma is also usually given, but which seems to belong more properly to the sarcomata. IX. Psammoma.—This name has been given to a form of tumor which occurs in the brain, usually growing from the dura mater. The growths are composed of bands of fibrous tissue, of small, round cells, fusiform cells, and cells