25 METHOD OF EXAMINATION. 10^ ounces. But these measurements and "weights may vary- considerably within the limits of health. The spleen is inclosed in a fibrous capsule covered with peritoneum. The parenchyma is made up of a stroma formed of blood-vessels and fibrous tissue, and of a soft, reddish pulp, in which are imbedded white, rounded bodies—the malpighian bodies. In the human spleen, the malpighian bodies are usually hardly perceptible to the naked eye. Sometimes they are very plain. Sometimes the fibrous stroma is very apparent; sometimes not. The size, consistence, and color of the organ may vary a good deal without any known cause. Decomposition softens it. Thickenings of the capsule and adhesions are very common. The Intestines.—If the intestines require careful examination, we divide the rectum, seize the gut with the left hand, and, keeping it on the stretch, separate it from its attacliments by repeated incisions until we reach the duodenum, where the in- testine is again cut ofi; The entire length of the intestines is then laid open with the enterotome along their attached border, the mucous membrane is cleansed with a stream of water and then examined. The ordinary lesions are catarrhal, croupous, and ulcerative inflammation, perforations, strictures, new growths, and waxy degeneration. Caution is necessary in distinguishing normal from abnormal congestion. A very considerable amount of congestion may exist without disease. In cholera seasons, especially, observers are prone to call the most moderate degrees of congestion abnormal. For a more superficial examination, the intestines need not be removed. We can slit up the lower end of the ileum and the colon and rectum, and examine them in place. The intestines can be preserved for minute examination by cutting them into pieces a few inches long and suspending them in a solution of Potass. Bichrom. (gr. xv. to the | i) and alcohol, equal parts. The Stomach and Duodenum.—We now introduce the ente- rotome into the duodenum in its transverse portion, and open it on its convex border. When we reach the pylorus, the incision