THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. 47 a number of small, white, lirm, irregular bodies—the pacch}'- onian bodies. They may be few and small, or numerous and large, and scattered over the convex surface of the hemispheres. They may perforate the Dura Mater, or, more rarely, the wall of the longitudinal sinus. They are composed of fibrous tissue, but may undergo fatty, or calcific degeneration. The pia ma- ter is also frequently thickened, opaque and white, especially along the course of the vessels. The pacchyonian bodies and the opacities of the Pia Mater are both said to be dependent upon repeated congestions of the membrane. They are most frequently found as senile changes, and do not indicate the pre- existence of any disease. The amount of serum beneath the pia mater and infiltrating its tissue is very variable in amount. It is not infrequent to find in hospital patients suffering from chronic nephritis, cardiac, or pulmonary disease, or chronic alcoholism, a very considerable amount of serum in this situa- tion, and yet the patient has been free from cerebral symptoms. In other cases again this same serous eff"usion affords the only explanation of grave cerebral symptoms. It is necessary to be very careful in judging of the importance of this accumulation of fluid. Hcemorrliage.—Most authors speak of hfemorrhages between the dura and pia mater as of rare occurrence, except from violence or the rupture of small aneurisms in the pia mater. This opinion appears to me to be erroneous ; and I have found clots in this situation not infrequently Avithout any special cause to account for them. Haemorrhages in the substance of the pia mater occur spon- taneously in young children, but in adults are usually the result of violence. Haemorrhages between the pia mater and brain are produced by violence, by apoplexies in the brain substance, or occur by themselves. In the latter case, the clot is usually situated at the base of the brain and around the medulla. Some of the blood may escape outside of the pia mater between tliis mem- brane and the dura mater. Meningitis.—Inflammation of the pia mater causes the pro-