317 TYPHOID FEVER. a white color. Tlie epithelium, especially of the convoluted tubes, is granular and broken down. Infarctions are not uncommon. Small, gray nodules, like those in the liver and peritoneum, are seen in a few cases. The Ovaries.—Haemorrhage and gangrenous inflammation have been observed in rare cases. The Brain.—(Edema of the pia mater and of the brain tissue is found in a certain number of cases. As to its frequency, authorities differ. Acute meningitis, white softening, softening with capillary apoplexies and infarctions, are found in occasional cases. The Yoluntary Muscles undergo various changes. (1.) The muscular fibres become filled with fatty and albu- minous granules to such an extent that the markings of the fibres disappear. This degeneration is observed in other dis- eases. (2.) The muscular fibres undergo a peculiar change, called by Zenker " waxy degeneration." It is not to be confounded with the " waxy " or " amyloid " degeneration of the liver, kidneys, etc. This change is also found in typhus, cholera, acute tu- berculosis, small-pox, and other diseases, and in connection with injuries of the muscles. It is most common, however, in typhoid fever, and at the acme of the disease. The change is usually found in the abdominal muscles, the adductors of the thigh, the pectoral muscles and diaphragm, and in the tongue. The muscles appear to the naked eye of a grayish or yellow color, dry, brittle, with a wax-like section, resembling fish mus- cle. Microscopic examination shows the muscular fibres to be converted into a peculiar, homogeneous, highly refracting sub- stance. According to the manner in which a fibre is attacked, we find long, wax-like cylinders, or smaller, irregular bodies of very various shape. The change in the fibres is accompanied or followed by a new growth of muscle. "We find then num- bers of lymphoid and fusiform cells with large fusiform bodies, and large, fiat, plate-like bodies, each containing many nuclei, and some of them distinctly striated.