EPIDEMIC CERBBRO-SPINAL MENINGITIS. 325 The Rigor Mortis is pronounced and long continued, but de- composition sets in early. The Skull.—The bones of the sknll may be hypersemic. The Brain.—A few cases are reported in which no lesions of the bi'ain or its membranes were seen ; but, as a rule, lesions are found. The dura mater may be covered on its inner surface with a layer of fibrinous exudation and extravasated blood ; or it may be adherent to the pia mater. There may be purulent matter between the dura and pia mater. The pia mater is usually congested. Infiltrated in it and be- neath it we find serum, gelatinous matter, and pus in variable amounts. There may be a general opacity and thickening of the pia mater, or there are scattered purulent foci. These changes are most frequent and most marked at the base of the brain. Microscopic examination of the pia mater, where it appears unchanged, often shows an increase of cells. The gelatinous matter beneath and in the pia mater appears to be made up of pus imbedded in a mucous basement substance. The ependyma of the ventricles may contain small ecchy- moses. The walls of the ventricles may be softened and oede- matous. There may be pus in the ventricles and in the cho- roid plexuses. Sometimes the ventricles are enormously dis- tended with serum. In the brain tissue there may be capillary apoplexies, large apoplexies, general hypertemia, spots of white softening, oede- matous softening, suppurative encephalitis, infarctions, granular softening around the small vessels, red softening, cell-growth in the gray matter of the cortex. Spinal Cord.—There may be small extravasations of blood in the loose tissue outside of the dura mater. The dura mater may be congested, its internal surface covered with fibrinous exudation, or it may be adherent to the arachnoid. There may be pus, serum, or gelatinous matter between the dura and pia mater. The pia mater is congested, infiltrated with pus, serum, and gelatinous matter. The same substances are found beneath it. The exudation is found on the posterior aspect of the cord rather than on its anterior. The inflammatory lesions may ex- tend the entire length of the cord, or only over part of it, or