POST-MORTEM EXAMINATION'S. 48 duction of exudation in the substance of and beneath the pia mater. This exudation is composed of seinun, lymphoid cells, and coagulated fibrine in variable proportions. It occupies circumscribed portions of the pia mater, or is distributed along the course of the vessels, or extends over a large part of the brain and upper part of the spinal cord. It gives to the pia mater a gray, yellow, or greenish color. It is rare to find any exudation on the free surface of the membrane. The inflam- mation may involve the superficial layers of the brain. This disease usually occurs in adults. It is either idiopathic or secondary to inflammations of the dura mater and cranial bones, to thrombosis of the large venous sinuses, to severe concussions of the head, or occurs as epidemic cerebro-spinal meningitis. This inflammation is usually fatal. In rare cases, collections of pus form between the pia mater and brain, and exist as ab- scesses for a considerable time. Sometimes the exudation un- dergoes cheesy degeneration, and forms firm yellow masses in the sulci. Sometimes the inflammation subsides entirely, leav- ing the pia mater thick, opacpie, and adherent to the brain and dura mater. Chronic Meningitis.—This is a disease of which our know- ledge is imperfect. It is not always easy to draw the line be- tween the lesions of chronic inflammatioii and those of a more degenerative character. The most marked form of chronic meningitis is seen in the general paralysis of the insane. Here we find the pia mater thick, opaque, and adherent to the brain. The outer layers of the brain are softened or sclerosed; and there are ])eculiar changes connected with the small blood-vessels. Another form of chronic meningitis occurs by itself. It is most frecpient in old people. The patient is usually sick for some time, but the diagnosis is often not established during life. The i)ia mater is thick, opaque, and adherent to the brain. There is a moderate amount of turbid serum beneath the pia mater, and sometimes small collections of pus. The pia mater is infiltrated with pus cells. I have seen in some cases dilatation of the vessels and increase of cells in the super- ficial layers of the brain.