7 METHOD OF EXAMINATION. 70°; at twelve hours, 69°. The internal viscera retain their heat longer than the surface of the body. It is said that, after sudden death from accidents, apoplexy, acute disease, and asphyxia, the body retains its heat for an unusually long period. It is both asserted and denied that after death from haemor- rhage the body cools rapidly. The body of an adult cools more slowly than that of a child or of an old person; that of a fat person more slowly than that of a lean one. The more the body is covered up, the less rapidly it cools. In some cases, there is an exceptional retention and even an increase of heat in the dead body. Dr. John Davy reports that in a case of death from rheumatism, after the viscera had been exposed for several minutes, the temperature of the left ventri- cle of the heart was 113°, and that of the liver 112°. In a second case, six hours after death, the temperature of the heart was 108°. It is stated that after death from yellow-fever and cholera the temperature increases for several hours after death. There are also recorded a number of cases in which the body retained its heat for several days without known cause. It will be seen, from what has "been said, that if we are called upon to pronounce iipon the length of time which has elapsed since death in a given case, this is only to be done approximately and probably. It is necessary to take into con- sideration the cause and manner of death, the condition of the individual, the state of the atmosphere, the manner in which the body has been kept after death. And even after making these allowances, we can only say that probably a person has been dead for such or such a time. Contusions.—It is often impoi'tant to determine whether vio- lence has been inflicted on a given body before death. With reference to this point, we must remember in the first place that blows and falls of sufficient violence to fracture the bones and rupture the viscera may leave no marks on the skin, even if the individual has survived for several days. In the second place, there are a number of post-mortem ap- pearances which simulate ante-mortem bruises. If we observe