4 POST-MORTEM EXAMIXATIOXS. known person, or of one wlio is supposed to have died from un- natural causes, it is necessary to search for and record not only all contusions, wounds, etc., their size and situation, but also any physical peculiarities of hair, eyes, moles, etc., by which the person may be identified. In ordinary examinations, we only look for the evidences of external injuries, for skin diseases, ulcers, etc., for oedema, goutj^ deposits, abscesses, enlarged lym- phatic glands, etc. The glans penis and j)repuce are to be care- fully searched for syphilitic cicatrices. It is customary to find certain changes in the external appear- ance of the body, which are due to the cessation of vitality in the tissues and to the commencement of decomposition. I speak now of bodies which have not yet been buried, and which have been kept in the ordinary way, partly covered by a shroud, and lying on their backs in a loosely-covered ooflin. If the bodies have been left in their ordinary clothes, the appearances are much the same. In such bodies, one of the first noticeable changes is the pale- ness of the skin and its mottling with irregular livid patches. After a short time, the blood settles in the vessels of the more dependent portions of the body, and the skin which covers the back of the trunk and extremities becomes of a livid red color. In many cases, if we cut through the skin, we find the tissues beneath congested and infiltrated with.bloody serum. In bodies which have been kept for a number of days in cold wea- ther, this red color of the skin is also seen on the anterior portions of the body, especially the face and neck. In hot weather, the red color is very soon altered by decomposition. If the epidermis has been detached at any point, the skin beneath this is dry, hard, and red. In warm weather, we may find, a few hours after death, broad, bluish lines, corresponding to the cutaneous veins, rami- fying in the skin of the neck and thorax. These lines are formed by the escape of the coloring matter of the blood from the vessels. "Within a few hours after death, even in cold weather, there is usually some escape of frothy blood and mucus from the mouth and nose.