239 THE UTEEUS. In the non-pregnant uterus, pressure on tlie veins, and conse- quent chronic inflammation of the organ, may follow. Anteversion, Inclination of the fundus forward and down- ward, and of the cervix backward and upward, is not common, and seldom reaches a high degree. Pressure on the bladder and rectum may be produced by it. Lateral version is produced by congenital shortness of one of the broad ligaments, by adhesions, or by the pressure of tu- mors. Prolapsus Uteri consists in a descent of the uterus in the va- gina. The position of the uterus may be only slightly lowered, or it may project through the vulva. In complete prolapse, we find a large tumor projecting through the vulva, covered by the distended vagina, and presenting the opening of the os exter- num near its centre. The bladder and rectum may be drawn down with the vagina, or may remain in place. The exposed cervix and vagina may become inflamed and ulcerated, or the mucous membrane may become thick and resistant. The process is frequently complicated by hypertrophy of the cervix. In the lesser grades of prolapse, the hypertrophy of the cervix often seems to be the most important part of the lesion. Sudden prolapse usually occurs after parturition, less fre- quently in virgins and in old women. Gradual prolapse is fre- quently caused by a cystocele or rectocele of the vagina. The vagina is dragged down, and draws the uterus with it. Elevation of the uterus is produced by mechanical causes— adhesions, tumors, etc. The vagina is drawn up and length- ened, and the vaginal portion of the cervix is obliterated. Inversion of the uterus consists in an invagination of the fun- dus. The fundus may be invaginated in the body ; the fundus and body in the cervix; or the entire organ in the vagina. The most common cause is traction on the umbilical cord dur- ing parturition. It may also take place spontaneously after parturition. Lesser degrees of inversion are produced by intra- uterine polypi, or hydro- or lisematometra. Hernia} of the uterus are very rare. Yentral hernice occur during the latter months of pregnancy. The peritoneum,