POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 160 NEW GROWTHS. Myoma.—Tumors composed of smooth muscle and jfibrous tissue are found as small, rounded, hard bodies. They grow from the muscular coat, hut soon project into the submucous coat, and push inward the mucous membrane. They may entirely ob- struct the cavity of the intestine, and may then be seized by the peristaltic action of the intestine, and produce an intussuscep- tion. In the duodenum such tumors may obstruct the opening of the biliary duct. Such tumors are also said to project under the peritoneal coat. Lipoma may occur at any part of the intestinal tract. The tumors project beneath the mucous coat, and form polypi, some- times of considerable length ; or they are simply hypertrophies of the normal appendices epiploicae. In these latter, there may be an increase of fibrous tissue and sclerosis ; or the f;xt may be- come fluid, and form a sort of cyst; or they may calcify. Such tumors sometimes, by the atrophy of their pedicles, become free in the abdominal cavity. Adenoma occurs usually in the form of polypoid tumors. They are found in the rectum, and are most frequent in chil- dren. They are single or multiple, small or large, rounded or polypoid. They consist of long glandular follicles, lined with cylindrical epithelium, and contained in a tibro-cellular stroma. Fibromapapillare has already been mentioned as j)roduced by chronic inflammation of the intestines. The tumors are of polypoid shape, and composed of fibro-cellular tissue, covered with epithelium. They are often made up of a great number of tufts, each covered with epithelium. Angioma is of very rare occurrence in the intestines, except in the form of the liajmorrlioids of the rectum, and as a degene- ration of the polypi mentioned above. Ilajmorrhoids are a form of angioma. They are produced by the dilatation of the veins supplying the lower part of the rec- tum. These veins communicate directly with the ascending vena cava through the internal iliiv;; but they also have large anastomoses, with the inferior mesenteric, and in tliis way they communicate with the portal system. Iltemorrhoids are inter-