10 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. If fracture of the cranium is suspected, the hones should he sawn entirely through. If not, it is sufficient to saw partly through and then separate the calvarium with the chisel. AVlien the roof of the cranium is thus entirely loosened, a large hook is introduced \inder the upper edge of the calvarium, and this is wrenched off with a sudden jerk. Sometimes the dura mater is so adherent to the roof of the skull that the latter cannot be torn from it. "We must then cut through the dura mater at the level of the incision in the bones, and take out the brain with the calvarium. When the calvarium is removed, we notice whether or not it is symmetrical. The cranial bones normally increase in size by a growth of bone at the edges of the sutures. If any suture becomes completely ossified and closed before the others, the bones will be unequally developed. Thus an early closure of the sagittal suture produces a long, nari'ow craniiim, etc. The thickness of the cranium and its density vary very con- siderably within the limits of health. There are often deep depressions on the inner surface of the skull along the sagittal suture, caused by the pressure of the pacchionian bodies. "We observe the degree of congestion of the bone, the exis- tence of fractures and of inflammatory lesions. The Dura Mater is now exposed to view. It will be found more or less adherent to the calvariurn, A moderate degree of adherence, especially in old persons, does not denote disease. "V^ery extensive and firm adhesions are usually produced by in- flammation. Jfear the median line the pacchionian bodies often project through the dura mater. "We must look for clots, for new growths, and for inflammatory lesions on the outer surface of the dura mater. The longitudinal sinus should be laid open with the scissors, and its contents examined. A circular incision is then made through the dura mater, in a line corresponding with the iaeision through the skull, the falx is entirely divided between the anterior lobes of the cerebrum, and the entire membrane drawn back. "We notice the existence of adhesions to tlie pia mater, of clots, of the products of inflammation, and of new growths. The Pia Mater is now exposed, covering the convex surface of