38 POST-MORTEM EXAJriN ATIOXS. 5. The sinking of the lungs is no proof that a child has been born dead. 6. That the lungs of children which have not breathed, and have been born dead, may float in Avater from putrefaction or artificial inflation. The lesions of inflammation, and vesicular and subpleural emphysema may be found in the lungs of new-born children. The Diaphragm.—In still-born infants the convexity of the diaphragm reaches the fourth or fifth rib. After respiration, it reaches a point between the fourth and seventh rib. Its posi- tion is so variable that it is of little diagnostic value. The Peritoneum contains a very little clear serum. Bloody serum may be produced by decomposition. The peritoneum is often the seat of intra-uterine inflammation. The Stomach.—The mucous membrane of the stomach may be intensely congested as a natural condition. In still-born children it contains a little mucus, sometimes meconium. The contents of the stomach should be examined microscopically in doubtful cases, for the presence of milk and starch. Inflamma- tion and swelling of the closed follicles of the mucous membi*ane sometimes occur. In the small intestine, inflammation and swelling of the soli- tary and agminated follicles are sometimes found. The large intestine usually contains meconium, but this may be evacuated before or during birth. Tlie formation of gas in the stomach and intestines does not usually take place until respiration is established. If decompo- sition has commenced, however, gas may be formed as a part of the process. The Liver is of a dark red color, full of blood, and large. Its size diminishes after respiration is established. Tlie size is so variable before and after respiration, that it gives little in- formation as to the age of the child. Large extravasations of blood are sometimes found beneath the capsule of the liver without known cause. A variety of pathological conditions, fatty and waxy degeneration, gummy tumors, etc., may be found. The Spleen is large and firm. It may be abnormally large, and its capsule is sometimes covered with fresh exudation.