258 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. Fibroma occurs in the form of small nodules in the wall of the tubes. They may become calcified. Lipoma is found between the folds of the broad ligament. The tumors are of small size. Myoma of the wall of the Fallopian tubes is very rare and the tumors are of small size. Carcinoma is found in the tubes only as a secondary growth continuous with the same growth in the adjoining viscera. EXTRA-TJTEEINE PREGNANCY. Tubal Pregnancy.—The impregnated ovum is in some way hindered from passing into the uterus, becomes fixed in the tube, and is there developed. The embryo and its membranes are developed until they reach such a size that the tube surround- ing them ruptures. This may take place in the first month, or not until the sixth. The ovum may remain in the tube after the rupture; or may escape into the peritoneal cavity still en- veloped in its membranes; or the membranes may be ruptured and left in the tube. The rupture is generally attended with fatal haemorrhage. In some cases, death is caused by the rup- ture of a dilated vein, while the tube is still intact. In rare cases, death does not take place, and the foetus is shut in by adhesions and false membranes. The embryo soon dies. In favorable cases, there is a slow absorption of the soft parts of the foetus, the bones ai'e separated and left imbedded in a mass of fibrous tissue, fat, cholesterine, and pigment. Or tlie foetus retains its shape and becomes mummified, and may then be in- •emsted with the salts of lime. In unfavorable cases, degeneration and gangrene of the foetus take place rapidly, with inflammation and suppuration of the surrounding tissues. There may be perforation and escape of the broken-down foetus through the rectum, vagina, bladder, or abdominal wall. The patient may die from jjeritonitis or ex- haustion, or may recover after the escape of the foetus. In some cases, the foetus may escape through a rupture of the tube into the space between the folds of the broad ligament. Tubal-Abdominal Pregnancy is produced by the develop-