63 THE SPINAL COED. processes. In rare cases, there is a defect in the anterior wall of the canal, and the sac projects through it. I have made an autopsy on one very remarkable case of this kind. The patient was under the care of Dr. Emmet. A female, aged 36, ten years ago noticed a swelling as large as a goose's egg in the left iliac region, attended with severe -pain and constipation. This swelling increased slowly. Seven years ago, she had a bloody and purulent discharge from the bowels, lasting for five weeks, and followed by a decrease of the swelling. Was seen by Dr. Emmet about tliree weeks be- fore her death. There was then oedema of the right leg, pain in the sacrum, constipation of the bowels, urine normal, abdo- men tympanitic. The cervix uteri was high up; the rectum was nearly occluded by a fluctuating tumor postei'ior to it. From this tumor a little clear serum was drawn olf with a fine trochar. On the day after this operation, she had a chill, fol- lowed by fever, great prostration, and in seven days, death. Autopsy 9^ hours after death. The rectum and descending colon were enormously dilated with faeces, nearly filling the abdomen. The upper edge of the uterus was two inches below the umbilicus, and pushed to the right side. The bladder was also carried up in front of the xiterus. There was cystitis. There was a large cyst behind and to the right of the rectum, filling the pelvic cavity, and reaching up to the level of the second lumbar vertebra. This cyst was firmly boimd down on all sides, but especially at the lower part of the sacrum. When it was removed, there v/as found an opening in the lower part of the anterior surface of the sacrum, through which the finger could be passed into the spinal canal. (4.) A portion of the cord may project through an opening in the bones, without any serum. Isolated cases have been re- ported of abnormally short cord, and of a double cord. INJURIES. The spinal cord may be compressed or lacerated by penetrat- ing wounds, by fracture, or dislocation of the vertebrae, or by concussion, without injury to the vertebrae. The spinal cord is found simply disintegrated, or haemorrhagic, or if inflammation