THE BONES. 281 INFLAMMATION. Periostitis.—"We may distinguish five varieties of inflammar tion of the periosteum. (1.) Sinvple Periostitis.—In this form, we find the periosteum thickened, succulent, congested, infiltrated with lymphoid cells, its fibres swollen. It is less adherent to the bone, and more ad- herent to the surrounding soft parts. The increase of cells takes place principally in the inner layers of the periosteum. This variety of inflammation may terminate in degeneration of the new elements, and the periosteum returns to its normal con- dition, or it may be only the first stage of one of the other varieties. (2.) Suppurative Periostitis may begin as a simple or as a purulent inflammation. The pus is formed in the inner layers of the periosteum, and between it and the bone. The outer layers of the periosteum may resist for a long time the suppu- rative process. The accumulation of pus dissects up the mem- brane from the bone, and leaves the latter bare. The pus thiis formed may remain in this position for a long time, may be ab- sorbed, may become dry and cheesy, or may burst through the periosteum, and form abscesses in the soft parts. The bone is separated from its nutrient membrane. It may remain un- changed, but more frequently necroses, or inflammation of the bone itself, may be set up. Such a periostitis may run an acute or a chronic course. Sometimes suppurative periostitis takes on a very malignant character. Pus is formed not only beneath the periosteum, but in it, forming abscesses filled with foul pus. The periosteum breaks down into a gangrenous, stinking mass, and the same change may affect the neighboring soft parts. The medulla may take part in the process, and break down into a purulent, gangrenous mass. Haemorrhages may complicate the process. The lymphatic glands are enlarged and swollen ; abscesses form in different parts of the body, and the patient dies with the symptoms of septicaemia. (3.) Fibrous Periostitis is a very slow, chronic inflammation, producing thickening of the periosteum. It is produced by ne- crosis, chronic arthritis, chronic ulcers of the leg, etc.