168 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. The fluid is xisually free in the peritoneal cavity, but may be sacculated by adhesions. Sometimes, especially in children, there is oedema of the omentum alone. The serum not only distends the abdominal walls, but pushes up the liver and diaphragm, and causes the lower ribs to be bulged outward. A small amount of ascites is found often in cachectic and ill- nourished persons. A larger amount is usual\y caused by dis eases of the heart, kidneys, liver, spleen, lungs, and by any ob- struction to the portal vein or ascending vena cava. Ai)' is sometimes found in the peritoneal sac after perforation of the stomach, intestines, uterus, and abdominal wall. The spontaneous formation of gas in the peritoneum is doubtful. NEW GROWTHS. Fihroma of the lieritoneum is rare. The tumors grow from the subserous tissue. Tliose which have been described in this situation on the intestines are probably mostly myomata. Others, however, grow beneath the parietal peritoneum, project outward into the muscles, and are true fibromata. Lipoma.—An abnormal accumulation of fat in the omentum and mesentery, and beneath the peritoneum, is often seen. Be- sides this, circumscribed fatty tumors are found beneath the in- testinal and parietal peritoneum. On the intestines they are usually hypertrophies of the appendices epiploicfe. These tu- mors often degenerate, calcify, become indurated, their pedicle atrophies, and they become free in the abdominal cavity. When they grow beneath the parietal peritoneum, they may form fat hernite, hernia lipomatosa. At the ilmbilicus, in the inguinal canal, and along the vas deferens, in the crural ring, and in the foramen obturatorium, fatty tumors may grow, pro- ject outward ixnder the skin like hernia^, and, by drawing the peritoneum after them into a pouch, may lay the foundation of a future intestinal hernia. Mijxoma.—In persons much emaciated and debilitated by chronic disease, the fat beneath the intestinal and parietal peritoneum sometimes undergoes mucous degenei'ation, and is converted into a gelatinous substance of a light yellow color.