THE ARTERIES, 115 a swelling attached to one side of the artery. The aneurism commences as a dilatation of all the coats of the vessel; but as soon as it attains any size, the middle coat atrophies, so that the wall is composed of the inner and outer coats ; or the inner coat is destroyed by endarteriitis, so that the outer coat alone forms the wall of the aneurism. As the aneurism increases in size, it l^resses upon and causes the destruction of the neighboring tis- sues and viscera, and portions of these tissues and viscera be- come incorporated with or take the place of the wall of the aneurism. The cavity of the aneurism is filled with fluid or clotted blood, or with layers of fibrine which adhere closely to its wall. The communication between the aneurism and the artery may be small or large. If arterial branches are given off from the aneurism, they may remain open, or become plugged with fibrine ; or their walls are thickened and their cavities nar- rowed by endarteriitis. Death is produced by the pressure and interference of the aneurism with the adjoining viscera, or by rupture. The rupture may allow enough blood to escape to destroy life, or the blood may be held in by the soft parts, and a second false aneurism formed about the original one. ANEURISMS OF THE DIFFERENT ARTERIES. The Aorta may be dilated over its entire length ; or there may be diffuse or circumscribed dilatations at any portion of its course ; or there may be several aneurisms situtated at dif- ferent points. The ascending portion of the arch of the aorta may be uni- formly dilated in a fusiform shape; or there may be circum- scribed dilatations on its anterior wall; or, more rarely, on its posterior wall. The sacculated aneurisms may be of all' sizes,, and may rupture within the pericardium ; or they may form a cavity in the upper part of the ventricular septum, and commu- nicate by openings into the pulmonary artery and left \nentricle ; or they may dilate downward between the visceral and parietal pericardium, in fi'ont of the heart, pushing that organ back- ward. They may perforate into the right or left auricle or right ventricle, the superior vena cava, or the pulm.onary arte-