79 THE LUNGS. rax, or the air may pass into the mediastinum, and from thence upward into the neck, producing general emphysema. ATAI.ECTASIS. A collapsed and unaerated condition of portions of lung tis- sue is either congenital or acquired. (1.) In congenital atalectasis we find portions of the lungs firm, non-crepitant, of a dark blue or purple color, depressed, smooth on section, and containing a variable amount of blood. These portions can usually be artificially inflated, and then can- not be distinguished from the surrounding pulmonary tissue. This condition is produced by the inability of the child after birth to fully inflate its lungs; either from want of suflicient vitality, or from mechanical obstruction in the bronchi. If the child lives for some time, and the collapsed lobules do not be- come inflated, they become hard, and can no longer be inflated. (2.) Young children may acquire ,the same condition as the result of bronchitis. A small bronchus becomes obstructed, and the air-vesicles which it supplies collapse. We then find, scat- tered through the lungs, collapsed lobules resembling those found in the new-born child. There may be at the same time lobules in a condition of inflammatory hepatization; and the collapsed lobules may also become inflamed. (3.) In adults, large or small portions of lung tissue may be- come collapsed, as the result of bronchitis; of stenosis of a large bronchus; of paralysis of the pneuraogastric; of atrophy of the respiratory muscles; of compression of the lungs by fluid, by new growths, or by thickened pleura. The collapsed portions are unaerated, firm, smooth; of a leathery consistence; of a dark red or blue color, and in various degrees of congestion. The names of " carnification" and " splenization" have been somewhat loosely applied to this condition. PIGMENT INDTJKATION. This change in the pulmonary tissue is one of the regular sequeljB of grave cardiac disease. Any disease of the heart which produces an obstruction to the free passage of blood from