POST-MORTEM EXAMIXATIONiS. 174 congested, of a dark red color, of very fii'm consistence, some- what increased in size; tlie intra-lobular veins and the central portion of the capillar}^ plexus of each acinus are much dilated. ATROPHY. 1. Senile Atrophy.—The liver may be diminished in size by any causes which interfere with its nutrition. Old age, insuf- hcient food, new growths of the stomach, chronic poisoning with lead, mercury, arsenic, and antimony, are among the most com- mon of such causes. The liver is found atrophied in all its di- mensions, firm, the acini small. 2. Yellow Atrophy.—During pregnancy, after typhus fever, with phosphorus poisoning, and from ixnknown causes, we some- times meet with severe symptoms, coma, delirium, jaundice, etc., during life. After death, the liver is found small, flabby, yellow, anjEmic, its cells in a condition of fatty and granular defeneration. Our knowledge concerning the nature of the dis- ease, its causes, and the relation between the symptoms and le- sions, is very imperfect, 3. Bed Atrophy.—In a few cases, symptoms of much the same character, but of longer duration, arc accompanied by a different condition of the liver. The organ is very much atro- phied in all its dimensions. It is of a bright or dark red color, mottled with rounded yellow spots. In some cases, the red and yellow colors are more irregularly distributed, so that a large part of a lobe may be yellow. In the red portions of the liver, the acini are atrophied ; in the yellow portions, they are hyper- trophied. In the yellow portions, the hepatic cells arc large and fatty. The interstitial tissue and vessels are unchanged. Tlie red portions consist of loose connective tissue, in which are small spaces filled with granular fat and bile pigment. There are al- so peculiar, long, branching follicles, lined with polygonal cells, of which the nature is obscure. Some authors regard red atro- phy as a more advanced stage of yellow atrophy. 4. Cyanotic Atrophy may ho produced by any cause Avhich impedes the flow of blood from the hepatic veins. The liver is diminished in size, is very hard, of mottled red and yellow