THE HEART. Ill lesion, wliicli prevents tlie free circulation of blood tlirongh the lieart. They are firm, dry, and of a whitish color, they may soften and break down at their centres, so as to look like cysts filled with pus, or they may calcify. They are usually entirely un- organized, consisting simply of fibrine. I have observed one case in which the thrombi were distinct- ly' organized. The patient was a man found dead in the street, concerning whom no history was obtained. There were two thrombi attached to the endocardimn of the right auricle at a point half an inch from the tricuspid valve, and close to each other. One of them was spherical, 2|- inches in diameter, attached to the auricle by a small, round pedicle. The other was ovoid, 3^ inches long, was attached by a small pedicle, projected through the tricuspid valve into the right ventricle, was calcified, and its free end ragged and broken. When they were fresh, both polypi were formed of a yellow, semi-translucent, elastic tissue, parts of which were calcified. Small vessels filled with blood could be seen near the surface. A thin membrane continuous with the endocardium could be dissected up from their surfaces. The body of the polyjii, where they were not calcified, consisted of a basement sub- stance partly fibrosis, partly homogeneous, and of round, oval, fusiform, and stellate cells. Arteries and capillaries, some con- taining blood, were found in considerable numbers. I have also seen another organized thrombus in the right auricle. The specimens were shown to me by Dr. Mann. The patient was a middle aged-man, one of whose legs was amputated on account of some tumor. After a time, the tumor recurred in the stump. At the autopsy there were found sec- ondary nodules in the lungs, and a large thrombus in the right auricle and extending into the inferior vena cava. The growth in the stump, in the lungs, and in the auricle, all had the same structure. They were composed of a fibrous stroma inclosing rounded cavities. These cavities were filled with large nucleat- ed cells resembling pavement epithelium. The cells were not in contact with each other, but were separated by a fine fibrous reticulum.