POST-MORTEM EXAMIXATIOXS. 86 is tlie rule. We find tlie pleura tliickened, bands and septa of fibrous tissue extend inward fix>ni the pleura into tlie lung tissue, tlie connective tissue around tlie vessels' and bronclii is in- creased ; around the various cheesy nodules there is a zone o-f new fibrous tissue, the walls of the alveoli hypertrophy, and so the process may go on until a large part of the lung may be converted into fibrous tissue and cheesy nodules. The new fibrous tissue may be black or slate-colored, or white or gray. In that which is formed around the bronchi and the vessels, and in the walls of the alveoli we can often see an early stage of the process, consisting in a development of great numbers of small round cells. Fibrous Phthisis is usually associated with some degree of catarrhal phthisis, but may occur alone or form the principal part of the lesion. Like the catarrhal form, it may occur m small nodules, or be dift'used over a large part of a lobe. The nodules are from the size of a pea to that of a walnut, of a dark slate-color, mottled with whitish points, of very hard con- sistence. They may be scattered in large numbers through both lungs, or there may be only two or three in all. They consist of pigmented fibrous tissue, with here and there groups of small, round cells, and sometimes the thickened walls of the alveoli can still be seen. The diffused form may involve part of a lobe or an entire lung. The pleura is thickened, and bands of white or slate-eolored fibrous tissue extend inward. At the same time, the connective tissue around the bronchi and vessels and the Avails of the alveoli increases until the pulmonary tissue is almost entirely lost in a fibrous mass. In this way, the apex of a lung, for example, may be changed into a firm mass tra- versed by dense bands of fibrous tissue, leaving a little lung tissue between them. This form of fibrous phthisis is usually associated with chronic bronchitis and bronchiectasia. The dilatation of the bronchi may be cylindrical or fusiform, or sacculated, or all these forms combined. The walls of the bron- chi are frequently trabeculated. In this way, we may find an entire lung converted into a honeycomb of cavities, separated by thick bands of fibrous tissue. Tulercular Phthisis is the form wliich is least frequent and