108 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. Imiifficieney of the valves to close the orifice to which they belong is produced by : (1.) Inflammation, thickening, shrinking, and shortening of the valves. To these may be joined atherona, calcification, and vegetations. (2.) The valves may become adherent to each other or to the heart-wall. (3.) Partial destruction of a valve, of a papillary muscle, or of one of the chordse tendinese by inflammation. (4.) Dilatation of the orifice of a valve without corresponding increase in the size of the valve itself. (5.) A very high degree of fenestration of the valve. (6.) Large vegetations adhering to the valve. Stenosis of the valves is produced by inflammatory changes resulting either in simple rigidity, or in adhesions and contrac- tion of the valve. In the latter case, the stenosis may be so marked that a quill will hardly pass through the orifice. The same lesions frequently produce both stenosis and iusufli- ciency of a valve. These changes occur most frequently in the aortic and mi- tral valves; more rarely, in the pulmonary and tricuspid. Insufficiency and stenosis of the valves produce changes in the heart itself and in the rest of the body. In the heart we find dilatatio7i and hypertrophy in various degrees. Insufficiency of the mitral valve produces dilatation and hy- pertrophy of the left ventricle, dilatation of the left auricle, and not infrequently dilatation and hypertrophy of the right ven- tricle and auricle. Stenosis of the mitral valve usually leaves the left ventricle of normal size, or even atrophied ; the left auricle, right ventri- cle, and right auricle are usually dilated and hypertrophied. The tricuspid valve may be insufficient or stcnosed, usually both at once. A small degree of insufficiency appears to be a physiological condition. Greater degrees are usually secondary to mitral stenosis. If stenosis exists, it is moderate in degree, and its eflfect is the same as insufficiency—dilatation of the right auricle and of the veins leading into it.