POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 288 but may be congenital, or may occur as late as the twelftli year. The physiological growth of bones depends upon three con- ditions. They grow in length by the production of bone be- tween the epiphysis and diaphysis ; in thickness, by the growth of bone from the inner layers of the periosteum. At the same time, tlie medullary canal is enlarged in proportion to the growth of the bone by the disappearance of the inner layers of bone. In rickets, these three conditions are abnoi'mally affected. The cell-growth, which precedes ossification, goes on with in- creased rapidity and exiiberance both between the epiphyses and diaphyses, and beneath the periosteum, while the actual ossification is imperfect or entirely wanting. At the same time, the dilatation of the medullary cavity goes on irregularly, and to an excessive degree. The increased cell-growth between the epiphyses and dia- physes produces the peculiar knobby swellings at the ends of the bones which are characteristic of I'ickets. At the same time, the medullary cavity increases rapidly in size, the inner layers of the wall of the bone become spongy, the medulla may be congested, its fat disappears, fusiform cells and connec- tive tissue are developed along the course of the muscles, and the process may take on the character of an osteitis. The result of these processes is, that the bones lose their solid- ity, and can no longer resist the traction of the muscles or out- side pressure. The epiphyses may be displaced or bent, espe- cially in the ribs, less frequently in the long bones. The long bones and the pelvic bones may be bent in a variety of forms. Incomplete fractures are not infrequent; complete fractures do not usually occur until the later stages of the disease, when the bones become solid again. In the head, the cranium is unna- turally large for the size of the face. The fontanelles ;md su- tures remain open, tlie bones are soft, porous, liyperfemic, and, at their edges, there are rough bony growths beneath the peri- cranium. Sometimes, especially in the occipital bone, tliere are rounded defects in the bone, filled only with a fibrous mem- brane.