POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 74 tant of broncliiectasia; higher degrees are not so common, and are more apt to occur in other parts of the lung. (4.) Old pleuritic adhesions are very frequently found, and are regarded as one of the most common causes of bronchiec- tasife. (5.) In a few rare cases, pneumothoi'ax has been caused by perforation of a superficial bronchial dilatation. The situation of bronchiectasiiB depends upon the previous disease of the lungs or pleura. Capillary bronchitis, catarrhal pneumonia, and atalectasis cause dilatations of the bronchi, in the inferior and posterior portions of the lung. Chronic inflam- mation, phthisis, and fibrous indurations cause dilatations prin- cipally in the upper lobes. Old pleuritic thickenings and ad- hesions cau.se dilatations in the portion of lung which they cover. Taking all the cases together, the lower lobes are the most frequently alFected. Both lungs are as frequently involv- ed as one. The largest bronchi are the ones least frequently in- volved. STENOSIS. Narrowing of the bronchi is produced either by the compres- sion of external bodies, or by the contraction of their walls. External pressure is produced by aneurisms of the aorta, en- larged lymphatic glands, abscesses and new growths of the me- diastinum, tumors of the oesophagus, and cancer of the lungs. Internal contraction is produced by (1) ulceration and cicatri- zation, usually of syphilitic origin ; (2) inflammatory thickening of the bronchial walls; this is a very rare occurrence ; (3) poly- poid new growths ; these also are very rare. Stenosis of the bronchi very often produces dilatation of the bronchi beyond the stenosis, lobules of emphysema, or of ata- lectasis, capillary bronchitis and pneumonia. NEW GROWTHS. Ossification of the bronchial walls has been seen in a few rare instances. Carcinoma is secondary to the same new growth in the lungs, mediastinum, or oesophagus. A single case of primary carcino- ma of the trachea and bronchi is given by Langhaus.