POST-MORTEM EXAillNATIONS. 46 of tumor growing imvard from tlie Dura Mater. These tumors are small, of irregular globular shape, of firm, gritty consistence, of white or pinkish color. They are formed of a loose fibrous tissue, of round and fusiform cells, and of globular calcareous concretions, such as are found scattered through the normal brain tissues. These bodies are arranged at the ends of broad fibres, as if on stalks. Sarcoma.—These tumors grow from the inner surface of the dura mater, invading the brain, or from its outer surface, thin- ning or perforating the skull. They are very hard and Avhite, or soft and pinkish, or partly cheesy. They are composed of roimd, oval, or fusiform cells, sometimes of myeloplaxes, mixed with a variable amount of fibrous tissue. Carcinoma.—This form of new growth may occur as a ])ri- mary or secondary new growth in any part of the Dura Mater. The tumors may grow inward and compress the brain, or out- ward and project through the skull as a fungous, bleeding mass. Less frequently the membrane becomes infiltrated with the new growth forming large flat tumors, which may invade the bone. They are either hard, or soft and vascular. They usually consist of nucleated cells arranged in alveoli, but some- times have the structure of epithelial cancer. THE PIA MATER * When the Dura Mater is stripped backward, it will be found somewhat adherent alonff the loncritudinal fissure. The Pia Mater is then brought into view. This membrane will be found in various degrees of congestion. The vessels may be nearly empty or distended with blood. Generally the degree of post- mortem congestion is not a certain evidence of the amount of congestion durins; life. Alonir the edsres of the longitudinal fissure, and more rarely on the under surface of the brain, are * I have followed the plan, now pronerally adopted, of not considering the aracliuoid as a serous sac with visceral and parietal layers, but of treating of only two membranes, the dura and pia mater. The dura mater has an epithe- lial lining on its internal surface, the pia mater has two layers, a membranous and a vascular.