THE STOMACH. 147 mucous tissue. As they grow larger, they pusli tlie mucous membrane inward, and appear as polypi, first with a broad, then later with a narrow pedicle. The subserous myomata grow in the same way, and form rounded or polypoid tumors beneath the peritoneal coat. Sometimes these tumors are partly sarcomatous. It seems probable that most of the fibrous tumors which have been described in this situation were myomata. Lipoma grows in the submucous tissue, and forms roimded or polypoid tumors. They usually project inward, but some- times oiitward beneath the peritoneum. They may also ap- pear in the foi'm of numerous small yellow nodules beneath the mucous membrane. Fihromapapillare consists in an hypertrophy of the normal villi of the stomach, or a new growth of similar villi. This growth may appear as a uniform thickening of a considerable portion of the mucous membrane, or in the form of polypoid tumors. Such polypi are single or multiple. The smallest form little rounded prominences; the larger have a small pedi- cle and large body. Their surface is smooth or villous. They consist of a central portion, formed of connective tissue, fibres, and cells. This is covered with a layer of little villi, covered with epithelium, and sometimes containing follicular glands. Adenoma is found in the shape of an hypertrophy of the glands of the stomach, which may assume a polypoid shape. Also, it occurs in the form of rounded tumoi's in the submucous coat, formed of glandular follicles, lined with cylindrical epi- thelium. Small glandular tumors, resembling the pancreas, have also been observed in the submucous and subserous coats. Lymphatic New Growths of the stomach are seen in some cases of leucDBmia. They form flattened or rounded tumors, 3-12"' broad, of soft, white consistence, and resemble in their structure the lymphatic glands. Cysts occur in the mucous membrane of the stomach from dilatation of the glandular follicles. They are usually small, but may reach a considerable size. They contain mucus and epithelium.