54 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. and ansemic, the ventricles are small, the ganglia and cerebel- lum are either of normal size or compressed. The disease is usually very chronic, and destroys life with symptoms of compression of the brain. There niay, however, be acute exacerbations. The hjiJertrophy consists in an increase of the neuroglia. Rokitansky has also described eases of hypertrophy as caused by tumors of the brain and compression of the medulla ob- longata. Hypertrophies of portions of the brain have been described by various authors. Atrophy.—This may occur as a senile change, or in adults from idiocy, alcoholism, opium or lead poisoning, or chronic meningitis. In children who are very much reduced by chronic diseases, atrophy of the brain may accompany atrophy of the rest of the bod3^ The atrophy affects principally the cerebral hemispheres. The convolutions are small, the sulci broad, the ventricles di- lated, the brain tissue firm, the gray substance discolored, the white substance dark colored, the blood-vessels dilated. The large ganglia at the base are also small. Serum usually ac- cumulates beneath the pia mater and in the ventricles, the pia mater and often the skull become thickened; the brain sub- stance may be oedematous, or contain hemorrhages. INJURIES. "Wounds of the brain may be inflicted in a great variety of ways, and by many diffei'ent instruments. Tlie brain may be directly wounded by the foreign body, or indirectly by frag- ments of bone driven into it. It is very difficult to estimate the degree of injury - which must cause death; persons fre- quently die from slight, and may recover from sevei'c, penetrat- ing wounds of the brain. After wounds which remove a portion of the cranial bones, it is not uncommon, after a few days, to see a bleeding, fungus mass project through the opening. This mass, or hernia cerebri, consists of granulation tissue, brain matter, and blood. The brain tissue below it is softened and purulent; there is often an abscess in the brain substance beneath.