THE LIVER. 195 laris. The cysts are found in large numbers, and arranged, not within each other, but side by side, so that the mass has tlie appearance of an alveolar, gelatinous tumor. This mass is very hard. It is composed of dense fibrous tissue, forming small an- astomosing canals filled with gelatinous material. In this gela- tinous material the heads or booklets of the echinococcus may be present or absent. On the surface of the liver the lymphatics are sometimes enlarged and filled with the same material. Distoma hepatictim..—This parasite has a flat, oval, leaf-shaped body, 3 cent, long, 12 mm. wide, and is of a dirty brown color. It is very seldom seen, and has no clinical history. Distoma lanceolatum.—This worm has a thin body, about 9 mm. long. It is found in the gall-bladder and bile-ducts. It is of very rare occurrence. Pentastoma denticulatum is the undeveloped form of the pentastoma tsenioides, a parasite which inhabits the nasal cavi- ty of dogs and of some otlier animals. In the liver of man and of the herbivorous animals, it is found in the form of small, rounded calcified cysts. The cysts contain fat, calcareous mat- ter, and the remains of the dead parasite. The Ascaris lumbrieoides sometimes finds its way from the intestines into the bile-ducts. It may cause complete occlusion of the biliary passages, or dilatation, or ulceration, or the for- mation of abscesses in the liver. THE BILIARY PASSAGES. Catarrhal Inflammation most frequently attacks the lower portion of the common duct and the gall-bladder. In the acute form, it leaves but few changes after death. An abnormal coating of mucus is almost the only post-mortem lesion. If the inflammation, however, becomes chronic, the wall of the bile- duct is thickened and its cavity obstructed. In consequence of this, dilatation and ulceration of the bile-ducts may ensue. The gall-bladder may be inflamed by itself or in connection with the biliary passages. If the disease is chronic, the wall of the gall-bladder is thickened, its duct may be closed, dilatation, ulceration, the production of gall-stones, calcification, and atro- phy may ensue.