POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 82 exudation goes on until the alveoli are filled with a fluid mass, which can be coughed out, and the pneumonia is resolved. Sometimes, however, the change of color is not accompanied by changes in the exudation. A lung may be entirely gray—al- most white—and yet the section is dry, the fibrine remains, and tlie cells are but little degenerated. This condition is some- times found in persons whose lungs remain hepatized for an un- usually long time without either resolution or death taking place. In most cases, the pulmonary pleura covering the hepa- tized lungs will be found covered with a thin layer of fibrinous exudation. Croupous pneumonia may prove fatal at any stage ; its fata- lity depending on the amount of lung hepatized, the general condition of the patient, and the amount of congestion and a3dema of^the rest of the lung tissiie. Sometimes abscesses form in the hepatized tissue. This takes place by a molecular degeneration and destruction of the walls of some of the air-cells, with an increased production of lym- phoid cells and serum. Such abscesses may prove fatal of themselves, or may perforate the pleura, or may be absorbed, or may become concrete and calcified. Gangrene of the lung, also, may result from hepatization, although in these cases there seems always to be thrombosis of the bronchial arteries. The exudation in the air-cells, after reaching the stage of gray hepatization, may undergo a dry, granular degeneration. The air-cells are then filled with a firm, dry, yellow mass com- posed of granules and atrophied cells ; and there is cheesy hepatization. 2. Cata7'rhal pneumonia differs from the croupous form in the character of its exudation. The material which fills the air-cells contains little or no fibrine, a smaller number of lym- phoid cells, and a much larger number of the large, nucleated cells. The disease runs through the same stages of congestion : red, gray, and cheesy hepatization. The section is smoother, and without the granular appearance of croupous hepatization. There is a much stronger tendency to pass into the cheesy con- dition. Catarrhal pneumonia usually affects only lobules of the