METHOD OF EXAMINATIOJT. 9 changes, we must be very careful in asserting its ante-mortem or post-moi'tem character. Fractures.—It may be important to determine whether a bone was fractm'ed before or after death. This point cannot always be decided. Generally a much greater degree of force is necessary to fracture bones in the dead than in the living body. Fractures inflicted during life are, as a rule, attended with more extravasation of blood and evidences of reaction in the surrounding tissues. But fractures inflicted within a few hours after death may resemble these very closely. Scars.—The presence of cicatrices and their appearance should be noticed. Scars produced by an actual loss of sub- stance, or by a granulating wound, never disappear entirely. Slight and superficial wounds, however, produce marks which are not permanent. The discolorations produced by tattooing may fade away during life. Not infrequently tattoo marks, which were observed during life, can no longer be found aftei- death, INTERNAL EXAMINATION. In making the internal examination, it should be our object to make it both as thoroughly and as rapidly as possible. In order to do this, we must follow a regular method. It is always necessary to examine not merely the particular organs in which we expect to find lesions, but also all the other viscera. If this is not done, we are always liable to fall into grave errors. After completing the external inspection of the body, we commence the internal examination. Tliis is best done in the following order: The Head.—The scalp is divided by an incision across the vertex from ear to ear. The flaj)s are directed forward and backward, taking up the temporal muscles with the skin and leaving the pericranium attached to the bone. The internal surface of the scalp and the pericranium are to be examined for ecchymoses and inflammatory lesions. A circular incision is then made with the saw and the roof of the cranium removed. The incision in front should pass through a point three and a half inches above the root of the nose, behind through the occi- pital protuberance.