157 THE INTESTINES. of small foreign bodies or hardened faeces. The ulcers fre- quently cause perforation, and, in consequence, the formation of abscesses, adhesions, and peritonitis. In other cases, the inflammation leads to closure of the neck of the appendix. It may then, by the accumulation of mucous and serum in its cavity, become a cj&t of considerable size. The abscesses which are formed in consequence of typhlitis, perityphlitis, or perforation of the appendix, may perforate into the bladder, vagina, uterus, acetabulum, ascending vena cava, other parts of the intestinal canal, through the abdominal wall into the muscles of the abdominal wall and the pelvis, through the diaphragm into the pleural and pericardial cavities. Ileum.—The ileum, especially its lower portion, is often the seat of acute and chronic catarrhal inflammation. In acute in- flammation, tlie mucous membrane is congested and swollen, the solitary and agminated glands enlarged. In chronic inflammation, both the mucous and muscular coats are thickened, the mucous membrane is congested and anjBmic or pigmented, often ulcerated. Croupous inflammation occurs in children in the form of aphthae; in adults, usually as the result of irritant poisons. I have seen, however, idiopathic croupous inflammation of the ileum in a few cases. The inflammation was most intense over about two feet of the intestine, hnt extended in a lesser degree down to the end of the ileum. Where the inflammation was most intense, the mucous membrane was congested, covered with a layer of fibrinous exudation, the solitary and agminated glands were not enlarged ; there was an infiltration of lymphoid cells and fibrine through the entire wall of the intestine, and a recent fibrinous exudation on its peritoneal surface, which did not, however, extend to a general peritonitis. Duodenum.—Catarrhal inflammation of the duodenum occurs by itself or with gastritis. It runs a chronic or acute course. It is principally important from its effect on the gall-duct, ob- structing the passage of bile into the intestine. Suppurative Inflammation of the submucous coat of the in- testines is said to occur in rare eases. It is usually metastatic. It takes place in the form of foci of varying extent, which per- forate either inward or outward.