THE HEART. 107 main exposed, or tlie cheesy matter may soften and give rise to nleerative destruction of tissue. In this way we find a great variety of lesions produced in the valves, and less frequently in the endocardium of the ventx'icles. Tlie valves are simply thickened by cheesy yellow patches ; or they are stiff and rigid from cheesy or calcareous plates; or they are drawn together so as to obstruct the openings to which they belong; or the atheromatous matter softens, breaks down, and a larger or smaller part of the valve is destroyed. As soon as a roughened surface is produced, fibrine is usually deposited on it in the form of vegetations. The endocardium of the ventricles presents the same lesions: cheesy and calcareous plates and ulcerated surfaces. In the latter case, the muscular tissue may become involved and exca- vations of some little depth produced. In some cases, the pa- pillary muscles or chordae tendine£e are destroyed so as to leave the valves flapping. CHANGES IN THE VALVES. Fenestration of the valves is usually a change productive of no bad consequences. It occurs in the aortic and pulmonary valves. The valves are thinner than usual, and close to their free edges are small slits extending from the centre to the at- tached edges of a leaf. Aneurisms of the valves are produced in two ways. (1.) They are the result of endocarditis. One of the lamellfe of the leaf of a valve is destroyed and the other lamella is converted into a sac filled with blood. These aneurisms are found in the aortic valve, projecting into the ventricle; and in the mitral valve, projecting into the auricle. Not infrequently the wall of the aneurism gives Way, so that there is a rupture en- tirely through the valve. (2.) The entire thickness of a leaf of a valve is converted into a sac filled with blood. This occurs in the aortic, mitral, and tricuspid valves; its cause is unknown. Iloemorrhage in the substance of the valves is sometimes found in very young children. It does not appear to have much clinical importance.