THE INTESTIKES. 161 nal or submucous ; external or subcutaneous; and mixed, or partly submucous and partly subcutaneous. The dilatation of tlie veins is accompanied with growth of connective tissue about them. The blood in the dilated veins sometimes coagulates and forms thrombi. Carcinoma of the intestines is usually primary. It may oc- cur as medullary, scirrhus, colloid, or cylindrical-celled epithe- lial cancer. At the anus, flat-celled epithelial cancer also oc- curs. The most frequent form is the epithelial cancer with cylindrical cells. Tlie rectum and colon are the parts most fre- quently attacked. The new growth usually surrounds the in- testine, and produces fatal strictures. In other cases, it perfo- rates into the abdominal cavity. Sarcoma^ botli white and pigmented, has been observed in the rectum. Lymphoma occurs in the intestines in cases of leucfemia. The nodules are soft, white, flattened, or rounded, and may ul- cerate. They are formed either as an hypertrophy of the soli- tary and agminated glands, or as growths, where these glands are not normally found. Cysts are of rare occui'rence. They are found in some of the polypoid growths. Rokitansky describes cysts in the intestines and mesentery, which were formed by cystic degeneration of the chyle glands. Tubercles of the intestines are principally confined to the se- rous coat and to the walls of ulcers. The so-called tubercular ulcers of the mucous coat are formed by the enlai'gement and ulceration of tlie solitary and agminated glands. They differ in no respect from the ordinary follicular ulcers already desci'ibed. Such follicular ulcers, when of long standing, may at their bases be infiltrated with small cells ; the lymphatics over them appear as white streaks, and in the peritoneal coat there may be a collection of miliary tubercles. DEGENERATION. Calcification attacks, in rare cases, the wall of the intestines, appearing in fibrous thickenings of the peritoneal coat. Waxy Degeneration may aflect the blood-vessels of the mu- ll