81 THE LUNGS. becomes solid. Firm pressure causes it to break down under the finger. The color is red, sometimes mottled with hsemor- rhagic spots of a deeper hue. A section looks as if the lung tis- sue were composed of a multitude of small granules closely packed together; and these gi'anules can be picked out with the point of a needle. If the lung is seen soon after death, the sec- tion is dry; in a short time, however, part of the exudation liquefies, and the section will be covered with a thick, grumous, reddish-gray fluid. The larger bronchi are not infrequently filled with firm, yellow, fibrinous cords, continuous with smaller cords in the smaller bronchi. Minute examination shows the alveoli and small bronchi to be filled up with a mass of new ma- terial, composed of fibrine coagulated into a delicate net-work, lymphoid (pus) cells, large polygonal nucleated cells, and red blood globules. The fibrine varies somewhat in amount, but is always present. The lymphoid cells are very numerous; some of them are as pale as perfectly fresh pus-cells ; but most of them are granular and somewhat swollen. The large, poly- gonal, nucleated cells are identical with the cells found in very small numbers in the adult lung, and more abundantly in the infant lung. They appear to be epithelial cells. They are found in variable numbers, most abundantly in the pneumonia which attacks emphysematous and phthisical lungs. The red blood globules give the coloring to the mass. The walls of the alveoli are unchanged; the capillary plexus in the walls con- tains but little blood. (3.) Finally comes the third stage, that of Gray Hepatization. The lung retains the same consistence, but is usually much moister; the section is covered with grumous fluid. The color changes from red to gray; not at once, but gradually, so that the lung is first mottled red and gray, and then is entirely gray. Minute examination shows the air-cells and bronchi still filled with new material: but this material has underorone chano;es. The red blood globules have vanished. The lymphoid cells and large cells remain, but are distended with shining granules. There is a considerable amount of granular matter formed by the breaking down of these cells and of the fibrine. This pro- cess of degeneration and disintegration of the elements of the 6