34 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. At the thirty-second week, the embryo is 15-16 inches long, and weighs 3-5 pounds. The skin is of a lighter color. The pupillary membrane has disappeared. The testicles are in the scrotum, or the inguinal canal. The nails nearly reach the ends of the fingers. The humerus is 23-24 lines long; the radius, 18 -19 lines ; the ulna, 22-23 lines ; the femur, 24 lines ; the tibia and fibula, each 21-23 lines. The last sacral vertebra begins to ossify. At the thirty-sixth week, the embryo is 17-18 inches long, and weighs about 6 pounds. The scrotum begins to become wrinkled, and the labia to close. The hair becomes longer, while the lanugo begins to diminish in amount. At the fortieth week, the foetus is fully developed, and the term of its intra-uterine life accomplished. The fresh corpse of a new-born child at term no longer resembles that of the immature foetus. The skin is firm and pale, like that of an adult. The lanugo has disappeared, except on the shoulders. The average length is 19 1-7 inches; the weight, 7 pounds. The nails are hard, and reach to the points of the fingers, but not to those of the toes. The carti- lages of the ears and nose are hard. The point of ossification in the lower epiphysis of the femur should be noticed. If it is absent, the foetus is, as a rule, not more than thirty-seven weeks old; but in rare cases, it may be absent at term. A point of ossification j line in diameter indicates an age of 37-38 weeks, if the child Avas born dead. Rarely it is no larger than this at term. A diameter of J-4 lines indicates an age of 40 weeks at birth. A diameter of more than 4 lines indicates, as a rule, that the child has lived some time after its birth. Tlie pupil- lary membrane has disappeared. The testicles are in the scro- tum. The labia cover the clitoris. Twenty-four hours after the birth of the child, the skin is firmer and paler. The xmibilical cord is somewhat shrivelled, al- thousrh still soft and bluish-colored. From the second to the third day, the skin has a yellowish tinge, and the cuticle sometimes appears cracked. The mnbili- cal cord is brown and dry. From the third to the fourtli day, the skin is more yellow, and