158 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. t'LCEKATIOX. 1. Catarrhal Ulceration occurs in the colon and ileum, witli catarrhal inflammation of the mucous membrane. Small round- ed patches of the mucous membrane appear at first deeply in- jected, then soften and fall off, leaving ulcers which are at first superficial and then deep. These itlcers then spread laterally, or several become joined, so as to form large nlcers, of which the edges are formed by the thickened mucous membrane, their floor by the muscular or peritoneal coat, infiltrated Avith cells. Such ulcers may destroy a large part of the mucous membrane of the large intestine, and may perforate. They cicatrize in the form of broad, hard, pigmented patches. By their contraction and the accompanying hypertrophy of the muscular coat, they may produce strictures. 2. Follicular Ulcers are formed by the inflammation of the solitary glands in the large intestine, and of the solitary and ao-minated glands in the small intestine. These o;lands increase in size; the mucous membrane over them softens and falls ofl\, so that they project as little, soft, rounded bodies, filled Avitli a whitish puriform material. The gland then ruptures, discharges its contents, and thus forms a rounded ulcer with overhanging edges. In the agminated glands, the process is the same on a larger scale. When tlie ulcer is tlius formed, its base and edges become infiltrated with lymphoid cells, and in this way tlie ul- cer may increase in breadth and depth, and even perforate the peritoneal coat. The ulcers which are frequently called tuberculous are really follicular ulcers ; but miliary tubercles may form in tlieir edges and near them as a secondary process. 3. Croupous Ulceration occurs in the large intestine from the infiltration and sloughing of portions of the mucous membrane. 4. Simple perforating Ulcers occur in the duodenum. They resemble exactly the perforating ulcers of the stomach, and seem to be formed in the same way. They are found with ul- cers of the stomach, or alone. They may be siugle or multi- ple. 5. Syphilitic Ulcers arc found in the rectum as an extension