72 POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. casts of tlie bronchi. The chronic form affects only a few of the bronchi. The mucous membrane will be found congested or anaemic. The lungs are usually diseased ; either emphysema, or fibrous induration, or small apoplexies, or abscesses are present. The idiopathic form in adult life is rare. Croupous pneumonia is always attended with croupous exu- dation into the small bronchi, and in some cases the larger bronchi also will be found partly filled with long, whitish cords of the same material. Peri-Bronchitis.—Inflammation with the formation of lym- phoid cells and connective tissue in the walls of the bronchi and just around them is found as an acute and chronic condition. It not infrequently occurs in the acute pneumonia of children, and we see the hepatized lung mottled with white lines and spot?. In the chronic inflammation of phthisis, we usually find the walls of the bronchi thickened, sometimes enormously so. BRONCniECTASIA. Dilatation of the bronchi presents itself under three forms, the cylindrical, the fusiform, and the sacculated. The cylindrical form consists in the uniform dilatation of one or more bronchi. It is found in bronchi of every size, but most frequently in those of medium diameter. The large and me- dium-sized bronchi may be dilated and the smaller remain nor- mal, or the terminal bronchi alone be aftected. The fusiform dilatation is a mere variety of the cylindrical. The bronchus is imiformly dilated for a short distance, and then resumes its normal size. Several such dilatations may be found in the same bronchus. The sacculated dilatations form the largest cavities. These cavities usually communicate with the bronchus only on one side, the peripheral portion of the bronchus becoming obliterat- ed. The bronchus leading to the cavity may be of normal size, ■or dilated, or stenosed, or even completely obliterated, so that there is no opening into the bronchiectasia. Tliese sacculated dilatations may attain to a very large size, and may be so numerous that the entire lung looks honey- combed.