POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 178 bile-ducts, tlie gall-bladder, the right kidney, the muscles and skin of the abdominal wall. Such abscesses usually prove fa- tal ; but sometimes their artificial or spontaneous evacuation is followed by recovery, (2.) Abscesses of the liver are formed in the same way as embolic abscesses in other viscera. There is thrombosis, from some cause, in the portal vein or its intestinal branches, or in the veins of the lungs, or in any of the veins belonging to the aortic system. A portion of such a thrombus finds its way either into one of the small branches of the portal vein, or of the hepatic artery. This sets up a suppurative inflammation of the adjoining portion of liver tissue. The thrombus simply acts as an irritant, and produces suppuration without infraction. (3.) In thrombosis of the portal vein, the thrombi extend into the liver as far as the small interlobular veins. The veins are filled with a thrombus, which is either firm and white, or soft and puriform. Their walls are thickened, the inner surface becomes opaque and rough, and is sometimes lifted up by little collections of pus, the middle and external coats and the cap- sule of Glisson are all infiltrated with lymphoid cells. The liver-cells and the branches of the hepatic veins are compressed and degenerate from the pressure of the enlarged and inflamed branches of the portal vein, the liver-cells atrophy, break down, and disappear, and there is left an abscess filled with pus and debris. CHRONIC INTEKSTITIAL HEPATPriS.—CIKRIIOSIS. The interstitial connective tissue which accompanies the veins and bile-ducts, in their ramifications through the liver, is frequently the seat of a chronic inflammation which results in the formation of new connective tissue. It has been thought necessary by pathologists and clinicists to describe different stages of the disease which must succeed each otlier. Such a description is forced and without sufficient anatomical basis. We meet with different degrees and qualities of the lesion, but we do not know their relationship. The appearances vary according to the amount of new con-