142 POST-MOllTEM EXAJ[IXATIONS. Ik ULCERATION. The Simjple Perforating Ulcer of tlie stomacli is a lesion fre- quently seen. It occurs in young pei-sons, especially females. It may cause death by starvation, lijemorrliage, or peritonitis ; or may cicatrize completely, and the patient recover. These ulcers are usually single, but there may be several of them. They occur most frequently in the pyloric portion of the stomach, at some point in the posterior wall near the lesser curvature, but they may be found at any portion of the stomach. The ulcers are usually circular, sometimes oval, annular, or of irregular shape ; or two ulcers may combine to form an irre- gular figure. The perforation is largest in the mucous mem- brane, smallest in tlie peritoneum. The edges of the ulcer pre- sent no changes, or, if the ulcer is of long standing, are thick- ened and indurated. The rest of the stomach is unchanged, or is in a condition of chronic catarrhal inflammation. The ulcer may perforate directly through the Avails of the stomach; the contents of the organ are discharged into the peri- toneal cavity, and fatal peritonitis supervenes. This is espe- cially the case when the ulcer is in the anterior wall. Or ad- hesions are formed between the stomach and the neighboring viscera, so that the bottom of the ulcer is sealed. Or, if the liver, the intestines, or the abdominal wall become adlierent, they are invaded; an ulcerating cavity is formed in the liver, a fistulous communication is established between the stom- ach and the intestines, or the outer surface of the abdomen. Or the adhesions are only partial, and an abscess is formed about the perforation.- Such an abscess may remain shut in by adhe- sions, or may break into the cavity of the peritoneum, and cause peritonitis. During the progress of the ulcer, there may be repeated small liajmorrhages from the erosion of small blood- vessels, or large and fatal haimorrhages if large trunks are de- stroyed. In many cases, these ulcers completely cicatrize, leaving a stel- late scar ; or, if they are large, constricting the stomach in vari- ous ways.