THE JOINTS. 297 Chronic fungotts and purulent Arthritis. Tumor albus. Arthrocace. Strtimous Arthritis. These names are used to designate a chronic inflammation which may involve all tlie parts of a joint. The larger joints are the ones usually diseased, and children and young persons the most disposed to the disease. The so-called scrofulous dia- thesis is said to predispose to this inflammation, hut local in- juries are frequently the exciting cause. The disease begins usually in the synovial membrane, some- times in the ends of the bones. The synovial membrane is thickened, congested, loses its epi- thelium and is converted into granulation tissue. This new granulation tissue appears red and succulent, or hard and yellow from degenerative changes, or oedematous. A variable amount of pus in the joint is produced at the same time with the changes in the synovial membrane, and may rupture the capsule. These changes are accompanied by a thickening of the fibrous tissue around the joint. "We then find around the joint a mass of hard, dense, sclerosed, anaemic tissue, composed principally of fusiform cells. In other cases, the new tissue is soft, si^cculent, vascular, composed of round cells. This new tissue may become so large as to replace all the soft parts above it, and become continiious with the skin around the joint. In some cases, portions of the new tissue break down into pus and form periarticidar abscesses. The articular cartilages become partially or entirely destroy- ed. The cartilage cells increase in number, diminish in size so as to resemble lymphoid cells, and degenerate, the cavities in which they are contained enlarge, the basement substance of the cartilage undergoes a kind of mucous softening. These changes begin on the surface of the cartilage and work inward until they have destroyed a smaller or larger part of it. »,If the disease begins as an osteitis of the end of the bone, instead of as a synovitis, the medulla of the bone becomes con- verted into granulation tissue, which grows into the cartilage and perforates into the joint by a number of sieve-like open- ings.