307 THKOMBOSIS AND EMBOLISM. A simple plug of fibrine in a vessel only produces changes in the circulation; but a plug ft'om a gangrenous thrombus has a tendency to excite suppurative inflammation wherever it lodges. Again, an embolus may entirely, or only partially, occlude a "vessel. The size of the artery occluded, and the character of its col- lateral circulation, also lead to a variety of results. If a large artery is stopped, the part becomes angemic; if a small one, there may be venous stasis from the collatei'al circulation. Thus, if the large arteries supplying the extremities are oc- cluded, we find anaemia, coldness, neuralgic pains, hyperfesthesia or anaesthesia, pricking sensations, cramps and paralysis of the muscles, and finally dry gangrene. Emboli of the pulmonary arteries produce dyspnoea or sudden death; of the coronary arteries, sudden death ; of the cerebral arteries, paralysis and white softening of the brain ; of the reti- na, sudden blindness and subsequent atrophy of the optic nerve; of the mesenteric arteries, congestion and gangrene of the in- testines. If there is suflBcient collateral circulation to partially supply the part with blood, we find evidences of chronic want of nutri- tion. The region alfected becomes atrophied ; its temperature falls ; slight injuries excite chronic inflammation ; the muscles undergo fatty degeneration; the bones necrose; the viscera de- generate ; the fingers and toes undergo dry gangrene. Emboli in the smaller arteries and capillaries produce the so-called haemorrhagic infarctions. We may therefore distinguish four classes of changes produced by emboli. (1.) The embolus remains at the point where it has become fixed, and becomes organized without producing any lesions. This is the case when there are abundant arterial anastomoses. (2.) The region supplied by the plugged artery undergoes necrobiotic changes, which take the form of softening, or of wet or dry gangrene. Such changes are seen in the brain, skin, and extremities. (3.) The region supplied by the plugged artery becomes the seat of venous congestion and extravasation of blood. This