POST-MOETEM EXAMINATIONS. 184 walls of the venous capillaries may also be infiltrated. Accord- ing to Wagner, only the hepatic artery and the venous capil- laries become waxy, while the hepatic cells are only atrophied. Most observers, however, place the lesion in the hepatic cells. The gross appearance of a waxy liver varies according to the extent of liver-substance invaded, the way in which the waxy material is distributed, and the coexistence of fatty degenera- tion, and interstitial hepatitis. There may be only a few waxy cells scattered here and there in ditferent acini, and the rest of the liver tissue be normal. Then the liver will have its normal size and appearance. Or, if the degeneration aflfect the greater part of the liver, the organ will be much enlarged, of a peculiar reddish, translucent color, and of a firm, waxy consistence. Or, in rare cases, there are a few circumscribed nodules of waxy cells, while the rest of the organ is not waxy. Or, if there is at the same time fatty de- generation of the other hepatic cells, the consistence and color of the liver will be modified. Or, if there is interstitial hepa- titis, the liver will be nodulated or lobulated. "Waxy degenera- tion of the liver is frequently associated with the same degenera- tion of the spleen, kidneys, and intestines. It does not produce ascites, except in a few cases, which seem to depend rather on general hydraemia than on obstruction to the portal circulation. It may in exceptional cases cause jaundice. Waxy degeneration of the liver, as of other organs, is tlie result of chronic inflammation and suppuration, especially of the bones and lungs, and occurs in consequence of constitu- tional syphilis. It is also sometimes produced by long-con- tinued malarial poisoning. THE PIGMENT LIVER. .Malarial poisoning, whether it appears in the fovm of remit- tent or intermittent fever, produces in tlie blood a variable amount of pigment. This pigment, which is found most abun- dantly in the blood of the portal vein, is of black, brown, or reddish color. It is found in the form of small granules em-