118 POST-MOKTEir EXAMlIv'ATIONS. arteries. This is especially seen in tlie arteries of the leg, foot, and brain, and in the coronary arteries. Narrowing of the aorta, and of all its branches, with thin- ning of the arterial coats, is found as a congenital condition. It usually occurs in females in connection with want of develop- ment of the entire body. Stenosis from thrombosis or embolism is treated of elsewhere. KUPTTJRE AND WOUNDS. Ruptures of arteries are found under the following conditions: (1.) Fatty degeneration or endarteriitis, with atheromatous changes, may so soften and destroy the inner and middle coats of an artery as to admit of its rupture. The aorta, just above the valves, is the most frequent seat of this lesion. The rup- ture may run in any direction ; its edges are irregular and jag- ged. The blood may burst through all the coats of the aorta at the same point; or, more frequentl}^, tlie external coat re- mains, and the blood is infiltrated in the middle coat, and be- tween it and the external coat. In this way, a dissecting aneu- rism is formed, which may extend along the aorta for a conside- rable distance. After a short time, the external coat gives way at some point, and the blood escapes. In rare cases, life is pro- longed for some time, the rupture being closed by a new mem- brane. We also find ruptures from fatty degeneration and atheroma in the arteries of the brain and of tlie lungs; in the coronary arteries, the coeliaa axis, and mesenteric arteries, and in the ar- teries of the upper and lower extremities. (2.) In rare cases, stenosis of a portion of the aorta may cause rupture at some point between the seat of stenosis and the heart. (3.) Contusions, wrenchings, and severe falls may rupture the wall of an artery either partially or completely, producing trau- matic or dissecting aneurisms, or completely severing the vessel. (i.) Penetrating wounds may wound or entirely sever an ar- tery. If the artery be of large size, death from lia'morrliage is the usual result. A smaller artery may become closed, or bo the seat of a false aneurism.