292 POST-MOETEM EXAMINATIONS. f really sarcomata, or other tumors wliicli happened to be very vascular. Some authors, indeed, are disposed to deny altogether the existence of real vascular tumors in bones. There are, however, reliable cases of cavernous angiomata growing between the periosteum and bone, and intimately con- nected with the latter. Whether myelogenic angiomata occur is doubtful. There are several cases described of cavities filled with blood in the interior of bones, which it is difficult to interpret. They have mostly been found in the head of the tibia. They are said to have consisted of single sacs composed of thickened periosteum lined with plates of bone, and filled with fluid and clotted blood. No large vessels communicated with the sacs, but their walls were covered with a rich vascular plexus, branches of which opened into the cavity of tlie sac. Cystoma.—The cysts which occur in bones are new growths, not retention cysts. They are not to be confounded with cystic degeneration of tumors of the bones. They are found, almost exclusively, in the maxillary bones. They are usually mono- locular, contain clear serum, or a mucous, or viscous, or brown fluid, sometimes containing cholesterine. The cyst-wall is a fibrous sac lined with epithelium. They begin in the interior of the bone, and, as they increase in size, expand it until they are only covered with a thin shell of bone. They may reach a large size, even as large as a child's head. Tubercles are of rare occurrence in bone. The products of inflammation not infrequently undergo chees}^ degeneration and become crude, yellow masses, which are often called tuber- cular, but are not so. True tubercles occur in the medulla, es- pecially in tlie bodies of the vertebrje, and the ends of the long bones. They are at first small, miliary, grayish nodules, disseminated in large numbers. They afterward become cheesy, and are surrounded by a zone of suppurative osteo-myelitis. In this way caries and cavities in the bone are formed. Sarcoma.—This form of tumor is especially common in the bones. It grows from the inner layers of the periosteum, or from the medulla, so that we may distinguish a periosteal and a myelogenic sarcoma. Sometimes the tumor attacks the bone