POST-MOETEM EXAMINATIONS. 344 cases, the ingestion of the poison is followed in a few minutes by vomiting, and the patient dies in a few hours. In other cases, there is at first vomiting, then very few symptoms until the third day. At that time the vomiting returns, there is jaundice, great prostration, syncope, delirium, and coma. In other cases, again, there may be no symptoms whatever for several days. ]S[ot infrequently there are no severe symptoms, and the patient suddenly and unexpectedly dies. The post-mortem appearances vary according to the length of time which elapses before death. If death takes place in a few hours, the only lesions are those produced by the direct action of the poison. The mouth, pharynx, and oesophagus usually escape. The stomach may be only slightly reddened, or there may be patches of inflammation and erosion. The contents of the stomach are often mixed with blood, and may have the peculiar smell of phosphorus. Tliere may be little bits of wood present wlien the poison has been taken on the heads of lucifer matches. It is said that the mucous membrane of the stomach may emit a phosphorescent light in the dark. If death does not ensue until after several days, the lesions are more marked. The body is usually jaundiced. There may be ecchymoses beneath the pericardium, pleura, and peritoneum, in the lungs, the kidneys, the bladder, the uterus, the miiscles, and the subcutaneous connective tissue. The Stomach usually presents no very striking changes. There may be small circumscribed spots of inflammation and erosion. The most constant change is a granular degeneration of the cells which fill the gastric follicles. In consequence of this, the mucous membrane appears thickened, opaque, of white, gray, or yellow color. The small intestine appears normal or is congested. The Liroer is found in difierent degrees of granular and fatty degeneration, and is often stained yellow from the jaundice. It is increased in size and of a grayish, grayish-yellow, or light yellow color, unless stained by the jaundice. Less frequently the centres of the acini are congested, or the entire liver is con- gested, or there are small haemorrhages in the liver tissue. The