367 TUMOES. myeloid, tumeur k myeloplaxes, encephaloid, cancer, etc., are some of the names which have been employed. yi. Carcinoma.—This class of tumors is one of the most im- portant and, at the same time, one of the least understood. The name was formerly used to designate any malignant tu- mor ; now most authors endeavor to limit it to a particular form of growth. Generally speaking, we may say that these growths are com- posed of a connective tissue stroma containing cavities filled with cells, which resemble epithelial cells. Some authors lay the most stress on the arrangement of the cells ; others on their shape. Some hold that the new growth arises fi-om connective tissue ; others that it arises from normal epithelium. The pre- vailing idea just at present is that, both in the normal growth of the body and in the formation of pathological new growths, the different tissues are developed from the different germinal layers, and do not intermix. Consequently new growths of epithelium can only arise from preexisting epithelium. We may distinguish three varieties : Epithelioma, true carci- noma, colloid carcinoma. (1.) Epithelioma. Although at present the tendency is to call all the carcinomata epithelial growths, it is convenient to group together a certain number in which this structure is most regular. The epithelial cancers follow the type of the epithe- lium near which they grow. Those of the skin, mouth, and vagina are formed of large pavement epithelium. Those of the nares, larynx, alimentary canal, and bladder are formed of cylindrical epithelium. Those of the conjunctiva are formed of small pavement epithelium. The large pavement epithelial cells are usually packed closely together in large, irregular follicles, some of the cells being packed into concentric nests. The cylindrical epithelial cells are more regularly disposed in tubular follicles, or covering tufts. The small pavement epithelium usually covers small tufts. These epithelial cancers resemble the adenomata on the one side, and the true carcinomata on the other. They are usually