192 POST-MORTEM EXAMIN"ATIONS. Occasionally, in children, sucli tubercular tumors become larger and clieesy; it is then difficult to distinguish them from syphi- litic tumors. Syphilitic Tumors are found in coimection with interstitial hepatitis or alone. If interstitial hepatitis is present, the gum- my tumors are found embedded in fibrous bands. They are small, or a number may be aggregated together, so as to form a tumor as large as a man's fist. They are of a grayish color, and are composed of round and fusiform connective tissue-cells. They usually, however, very soon undergo cheesy and fibrous degeneration, and are then of an opaque white or yellow color ; the cellular elements disappear, and we find nothing but a fibrous or cheesy mass. In other cases, the tumors soften and break down, so that they may resemble abscesses. Less frequently, there is no interstitial hepatitis, and we find a number of small, yellow, cheesy tumors, scattered through the liver. I have seen, in one case, large, white, gummy tumors without interstitial hepatitis, which, to the naked eye, resem- bled cancerous nodules. In infants, a very minute form of these tumors is found. They appear as numerous, very small, white dots on the siu-face of the organ. Cysts are usually produced by a dilatation of tlie bile-ducts. They are small, multiple, contain serum, mucus, and epithelium. New-formed cysts in the connective tissue are also described. Sarcoma of the liver is not common. It is almost always secondary. The most frequent forms are melanotic or spindle- celled sarcomata. Carcinoma.—The liver is the most frequent seat of secondary cancerous growths. Primary carcinoma of the liver is very rare. The primary tumor is often small, while the secondary growth in the liver is very large, so that the former may be overlooked. In some cases, the primary tumor is situated in the wall of the gall-bladder. All the varieties of cancer, simple, medullar}'", scirrhus, me- lanotic, colloid, flat and cylindrical epithelial, are found in the liver; but simple cancer, either hard or soft, is the most fre- quent. It occurs in the form of nodules, or of a uniform infil-