POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. 282 (4.) Ossifying Periostitis results in the formation of new bone irom the inner layers of the periosteum. The bone thus formed is, at first, of very variable shape. The osteophytes, as they ai'e called, form a thin, velvet-like, villous layer; or they are little spiculag; or they form larger, rounded masses; or they are a thick, uniform layer, extending over a large part of a bone. They are at first very loosely connected with the bone. The new bone has at first a loose, spongy character. It is formed ol thin plates of bone inclosing large cavities filled with med\;lla. Layers of compact bone tissue are formed from the medulla on the sides of the original plates, and thus the medullary cavities are gradually filled up with bone. The new bone may thus become as compact, or even denser, than normal bone. The hyperostoses and exostoses thus formed may remain indefinite- ly, or they may gradually become smaller and disappear. (5.) Syphilitic Periostitis.—The syphilitic diathesis may give rise to simple, purulent, fibrous, and ossifying periostitis. In addition, we frequently find developed in the periosteum gum- my tumors. These are rounded masses, sometimes gelatinous, sometimes firmer, composed of round and fusiform cells. They may disappear, may undergo cheesy degeneration, may be con- verted into fibrous tissue, or may suppurate. Tlie bone beneath them may be unaltered or become diseased. OSTEOMYELITIS. In most of the inflammatory processes which afi'ect the bones, the medulla has an important share; so that many conditions described as osteitis are really osteomyelitis. It is customary, however, to reserve the latter name for those cases in which a large part of the medulla is inflamed, and the bone tissue is little or not at all involved. Using the word in this sense, we may distinguish an idio- pathic and a traumatic osteomyelitis. (1.) Idiopathic osteomyelitis generally occurs in persons un- der twenty years of age. It usually affects one of the long bones, more rarely several bones at once. The disease begins with a difluse hyperaemia and serous infil-