14 POST-MOKTEM EXAMINATIONS. the cord removed in its membranes, care being taken not to press it in any way. It is the safest plan not to grasp tlie cord itself, but with a forceps to seize the dura mater, and thus lift up the cord. The dura mater is then laid open with scissoi^s over the entire length of the cord. If disease of the cord is suspected, and no lesions are to be seen with the naked eye, the cord should always be preserved for microscopical examination. For this purpose, it should be cut into pieces an inch long; these pieces are then loosely tied in tlieir order with a cord, and suspended in a jar containing a solution of Potass. Bichrom., gr. xv. to 1 ^ of water. After re- maining in this for 10 days, the cord should be removed to a solution of Ac. Chromic, gr. ij to 3 1 of water, and remain in this until hard enough to be cut into thin sections. After the removal of the cord, fractures and displacements of the vertebrae are easily recognized. The Thorax and Ahdomen.—To examine these cavities the body is replaced on its back. A single straight incision is made from the top of the sternum to the pubes. For this purpose, a large scalpel should be used, and the first incision should divide every thing down to the sternum and peritoneum. A short incision should then be made through the peritoneum; into this opening two fingers of the left hand are introduced, and the peritoneum divided from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes. The skin and muscles are then dissected oft" from the thorax on both sides as far back as the false ribs. In doing this, we notice the amount of subcutaneous fat and the condi- tion of the miiscles. The abdominal cavity is now exposed, and we have first to notice the position of the viscera. The Liver is situated in the right hypochondriac region, filling up the concavity of the diaphragm. Its xipper border reaches in the linea mammalis to the fifth intercostal space; in the linea axillaris, to the seventh intercostal space; close to the vertebral column, to the tenth intercostal space. At the median line the upper border of tlie liver corresponds to the lower border of the heart. The left lobe extends about three inches to the left of the median line. The lower border of the