POST-MORTEM EXAMINATION'S. 30 The Uterus.—In the new-born infant, the uterus is small, the body flattened, the cervix disproportionately large. During childhood, the organ increases in size, but the body remains small in })roportion to the cervix. At puberty, the shape changes, and the body becomes larger. Its length is then 2-3 inches, its breadth 16-20 lines, its thickness 8-12 lines. At every menstruation, the uterus is somewhat swollen and con- gested. After pregnancy, it does not return to its original size, but remains somewhat larger. In old age, it becomes smaller, its walls more fibrous. The uterus is held in position by the broad and round liga- ments, by its attachments to the bladder in front, the rectum behind, and the vagina below. The anterior lip of the cervix reaches to f inch above the horizontal plane of the most supe- rior point of the symphysis pubis. The long axis of the uterus is rather nearer to the posterior than to the anterior wall. The shape of the uterus is that of a pear, flattened antero-posteriorly. The body is inclined forward at an angle of 140"^ with the cervix, while the latter is inclined somewhat backward. The uterus is covered by the peritoneum anteriorly, to a point a little below the level of the os internum, posteriorly as far as the insertion of the vagina into the cervix. The peri- toneum is firmly attached to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the uterus by a layer of connective tissue; at the sides, it separates to form the broad ligaments. The greater part of the body and neck is made up of smooth muscular fibres, closely joined to each other. During pregnan- cy, these fibres ai'e greatly increased in size. With the fibres we find connective tissue, with many cells and a few elastic fibres. The mucous membrane of the body is composed of tubular follicles, either single or branching, lined with cylindrical epi- thelium, which in some animals is ciliated. The internal sur- face of the body and neck is covered with a layer of ciliated epithelium, which, near the external os, changes into pave- ment epithelium. Tlie mucous membrane of the neck is thrown into folds, in which are contained mucous follicles, simple tubes lined with