22101454341Med K10698PRINTED BY SPOTTISVVOODE AND CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE LONDON P >THE ART OF PREPARING VEGETABLES FOR THE TABLE UTTON BY AND READING ONS LONDON HAMILTON, ADAMS, & CO., 32 PATERNOSTER ROW 1S88 All rights reservedWELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No.PREFACE. .jRHE CONTINUAL CALLS for an article on Preparing Vegetables for the Table which appeared in our ‘Amateur’s Guide in Horticulture ’ several years ago, cannot be met by a reprint in that work. We have therefore revised and somewhat extended the article for separate publication in a more accessible form. READING : May 188S.CONTENTS PAGE INTRODUCTION I ARTICHOKES, GLOBE 7 ,, JERUSALEM . . . . . . 8 ASPARAGUS 9 AUBERGINES IO BEANS, BROAD . .II ,, HARICOT 33 ,, KIDNEY 12 BEET-ROOT . 13 ,, PICKLED 14 BORECOLES 16 BROCCOLI l6 ,, SPROUTING iS BRUSSELS SPROUTS . . 18 CABBAGE GREENS . 19 CABBAGES 20 CABBAGE, RED 20 CAPSICUMS AND CHILIES 21 CARDOONS 22 CARROTS 2’’’ CAULIFLOWER CELERY 25 CHICORY 27CONTENTS PACK CORN COBS 28 3, SALAD COUVE TRONCHUDA 29 CRESSES 30 CUCUMBERS 31 DANDELION 32 ENDIVE 32 GARLIC 33 HARICOT BEANS 33 KNOL KOHL 66 LEEKS 35 LETTUCES 36 MUSHROOMS 37 MUSTARD 4.O ONIONS 40 PARSNIPS 42 PEAS 43 POTATOES 46 RADISHES S3 RHUBARB . 54 SALADS 55 SALSIFY 58 SCORZONERA 59 SEA KALE 59 SORREL 60 SPINACH 6l ,, PERPETUAL 63 TOMATOES 63 TURNIPS 66 VEGETABLE MARROWS 67I THE ART OF PREPARING VEGETABLES FOR THE TABLE. Introduction In attempting to promote the full appreciation of garden products, and their economical employment as articles of food, we cannot entertain the hope of offering to the experienced cook or housekeeper anything deserving to be called ‘new,’ and it is no part of our purpose to indulge in speculations or disquisitions that would take us away from the busi- ness that is immediately in hand. It is intended, therefore, in what follows to present something like an elementary code of vegetable cookery that the cooks themselves may not disdain, and that many who are not cooks, but desire to learn something of the art of cookery, may give attention to as of direct practical value to them. Vegetables in general need to be cooked quickly and thoroughly, and to be eaten as soon asThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table possible after the cooking is completed. It is safer to keep a roasted joint hot for a time when there is reason for deferring a meal, than to do the same with the cooked vegetables, for in the end the joint may actually be in a less degree deteriorated than the Cauliflowers and Potatoes. . It follows that the cook should study, not how soon to begin cooking the vegetables, but how late it may be safe to let them remain untouched, while still ensuring time enough .to cook them properly. All vegetables and other garden produce should be as fresh as possible. It is advisable, therefore, to discourage the gathering of larger quantities than are immediately required, except in some peculiar cases. It may be well sometimes to gather Peas and to remove Cauliflowers from the power of a burning sun or a bitter frost, but as a rule all such things will keep best on the ground, and should not be touched until wanted. The early morning is the right time generally to fill the basket for the supply of the house during the day. The fresh vegetables should be well washed as may be needful, but in any and every case such as can be safely used without washing will be the better for being left alone. The practice of allowing vege- tables to lie soaking in water for a whole morning tends directly to their injury. They must be clean at any cost of trouble, but as a rule the necessary washing is a simple matter and should be got through smartly. In cold weather the kitchenmaid will per- haps find it a painful task to wash Spinach properly. It need not be so ; because Spinach and any otherThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 3 vegetable may be washed in water a little warm, or as we say £ tepid,’ more quickly and completely than in cold water. The removal of dirt is not the onl) object of washing, for it is needful sometimes for the dislodgment of vermin such as earwigs, caterpillars, and slugs. We will take a Cauliflower or a Cabbage in which there may be lurking some small intruder. Throw into a pail or bowl a lump of salt, fill up with cold water, and, if necessary, add a little hot water ‘ to take the chill off,’ and then plunge the vegetable into it. In a short time the caterpillars and slugs will generally wriggle out. Between boiling and stewing there is a vast differ- ence, which the cook should thoroughly understand. To serve a dish of greens of any kind with a beautiful colour, a fresh appetising fragrance, and a flavour that shall gratify all palates, there must be a little briskness in the cooking. The pot should contain plenty of water, a reasonable quantity of salt—say two tablespoonfuls (equal to two ounces) to the gallon— and, if need be, a very small quantity of soda. The vegetables should be well drained, for if they carry a lot of cold water into the pot, some minutes must elapse before the boiling temperature can be regained, and this is directly injurious to the vegetables. The water should be boiling gaily when the vegetables are put into it, and the fire, or flame of the gas stove, must be strong enough to ensure quick and continuous boiling. Push down the vegetables occasionally, so as to keep them covered and to cook them equally. The rest of the business is easy enough, but thereThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 4 must be no relaxation of the smartness of action. 1 he moment they are fairly cooked, just at the nice point when they are quite tender and have not begun to fall to pieces or melt away, turn them out, drain and press as required by the particular kind of vegetable, and put them into the hot dishes for the table as quickly as possible. They will do you credit, for they will be beautiful to look at and delicious to eat. As we are now treating of generalities, it will be proper to observe that there is one very simple matter that must on no account be neglected in cooking such vege- tables as French Beans, Spinach, Cauliflower, Broccoli, and all kinds of greens, and it is that the lid should be wholly or partially off the pot, if these vegetables are to be served up of a creditable colour. To keep the lid down will be utter ruin to the appearance of any one of them. Over a proper cooking range or gas boiler the lid of a saucepan may be tilted with impunity. Not so over an ordinary fire, for then smoke often curls into the pot and imparts an un- pleasant flavour to the contents. Here we encounter a point of some importance that has certainly not obtained its due share of attention. Our houses are so well supplied with water by the companies that we pay little heed to the precious gift of water from the heavens. It is worth remembering that rain water, freed from all impurities, will cook vegetables of every kind far better than the water commonly used for the purpose. The water supplied in towns may be generally described as good, but in. every case there is a certain degree of ft i - —- ~ -The Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 5 hardness that renders it necessary to use soda in the cooking of vegetables. It should be borne in mind, however, that the soda is intended simply to soften the water, and a very minute quantity is sufficient. The young cook, earnest and observant, but having as yet much to learn, discovers that a nugget of soda promotes the cooking of vegetables in respect of their colour and tenderness. But she is likely to attribute to the soda a greater virtue than it possesses, for it may be safely said that every grain used beyond what is essential to correct the hardness of the water will have a mischievous effect. This truth she has yet to discover, but before learning it she will probably throw in soda recklessly, and the result will be a kind of melting process, so that the tender parts of the vegetables will be pretty well destroyed and there will be no flavour, although perhaps there will be a good colour. If she has intelligence enough to learn by observation, the truth will dawn upon her that too much soda is injurious in its results, and when she has got this well into her head, she will soon become expert and happy in cooking vegetables. A friend has many times, for the sake of amusement and to teach young cooks, dressed delicate dishes of Collards, and other greens, using only the company’s water, and a little salt, and the sample has been per- fect. But between what may be called ‘ toy cooking ’ and the daily business of the cook there is a difference, and we must not prohibit the use of soda, for it is a great help to those who have to look after many things . at one and the same time, and cannot therefore bestow >The Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 6 upon one vessel amongst many the artistic care that is possible in the case of the experimental cook, who is chiefly bent on scientific recreation. But the lesson must be learned that there is a limit to the use of soda, a very little of which will go a long way. When rain water is used soda is not wanted, and in fact will do more harm than good. Certain white vegetables quickly change colour during the cooking process, and in such cases a simple course of procedure suffices to preserve the colour without damage to the vegetable. Take blanched Cardoons for an example. When boiled in water containing soda, although they were white when they went into the pot, they will be black when they come out. The way to prevent this is to throw them into water in which there is a little lemon juice, and let them remain until required for the pot. Then squeeze a few drops of lemon juice into the boiling water, taking care not to use any soda, and the difficulty is conquered. Sea Kale does not turn black in cooking, and neither lemon nor soda should be put into the water for it. It ought not to be necessary to insist on perfect cleanliness in every vessel used for cooking purposes, but experience proves that this lesson needs to be constantly enforced. Not only should every saucepan, mould, and basin be delicately clean, but they should be absolutely free from any antecedent flavour. It awakens a shudder when suspicion gradually deepens into conviction that onions or fish are odious intruders in a dish which has been carelessly ruined. There isThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 7 not a shadow of excuse for it, because any flavour can easily be got rid of by means of boiling water and soda. It should be a fixed rule, admitting of no ex- ceptions, to put away every vessel in such a condition as to allow of its instant use. Several of the recipes in the following pages advisfe the employment of Worcester sauce. Those who con- sider this to be too fiery as a flavouring medium may re- duce the proportion or omit it entirely. Happily there are many other sauces free from this objection and admirable in flavour, among which Cocks’ Reading and Lazenby’s Harvey deserve remembrance. So also does Tomato sauce for its fine piquant flavour and whole- some qualities, and this article will be respected none the less if manufactured at home. Plobe Artichokes Globe Artichokes should be carefully washed and trimmed, the stalks cut off close under the flower. Put them into boiling water, with the usual propor- tions of salt and soda, and boil quickly until tender. When cooked enough, drain and lay them on a napkin two or three times folded, in a hot dish, and serve with a tureen of melted butter. It is a comfort for those who have to purchase, that Artichokes are somewhat improved by becoming in a slight degree stale ; therefore, when taken from the garden, they may be kept about three days with advantage. In this respect they form an exception among vegetables similar to that of turbot among fish, for a turbot isThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 8 never so nice when quite fresh as when kept for a day or two. Artichokes make a good dish fried, in which case they must first be boiled and the chokes must be removed. Then cut the bottoms into four parts, and dip in a batter made of flour and milk, and fry in hot lard or oil to a nice golden-brown colour. Fry also some picked Parsley and sprinkle it over the Artichokes, and serve with plain melted butter. All such articles should be made free from grease by being carefully drained and dried before being dished. Jerusalem ^Artichokes Jerusalem Artichokes are sometimes cooked in the same way as Potatoes, and then it is said that Potatoes are better. It is quite true, and it is also true that to cook and serve Artichokes in the same way as Potatoes is to treat with indignity a truly respectable vegetable. The tubers should be peeled and thrown into water, and then boiled in the usual way until quite tender. Then drain and press and put them in a hot dish, and pour over them a good white sauce. This should be made with milk, flour, a very little sugar, and a slight flavouring of nutmeg. Served in this way the Jeru- salem Artichoke is a most delicious vegetable. A variation consists in mashing them and then putting them into a pan with a lump of butter and a rather liberal flavouring of salt and white pepper, with a very slight dusting of powdered white sugar. Stir them over the fire until thoroughly hot, and then serve. TheyThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 9 13 may also be boiled with Silver-skin Onions and served with a good white sauce and a few freshly cooked Brussels Sprouts dotted amongst them, after the sauce has been poured over them. This vegetable requires careful cooking, as it is ■always eaten in a critical spirit, and when well dressed , ^:the cook will be sure of a reasonable amount of praise. If it is necessary to keep Asparagus a few days before cooking it, stand the stalks upright in water in narrow •vessels, such as common beer-jugs. If put in open bowls, the stalks will be at an angle and the tops will bend towards the light, and will not look well when cooked. But Asparagus cannot be too fresh, and no more should be cut at one time than can be used at once. . Prepare by scraping the stems from the head downwards; shorten them to one length, and tie them in convenient bundles. Boil quickly, with the lid off the pot, until quite tender, which will be in about ten minutes when the heads are fresh, or fifteen minutes if they have been cut a day or two. Dish on toast that has been dipped in the water, and serve with white sauce. There are many variations of the process. One consists in standing the bundles upright in a somewhat narrow pot, and then putting in sufficient boiling water (with the usual allowance of salt) to about half the depth of the Asparagus. Then start the boiling with the lid on the pot. By this method the stems are softened and the tops are cooked in the steam only.The Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table On the Continent Asparagus is served in a variety of ways : one of the most acceptable to epicures con- sisting in adding one or two hard-boiled eggs cut into halves, and a little of the best salad oil to dip the tops into, as also to float the eggs in. Asparagus soup is a grand dish. It is made by boiling together in white stock equal quantities of green Peas and green Asparagus, with a few young Onions. The vegetables must be boiled until they can be pulped through a colander. Then return them to the soup, add a moderate allowance of salt, red pepper, and white sugar, and a small quantity of flour beaten up with a little stock. Boil up and strain, and add a very little of Breton’s green colouring, which is perfectly wholesome, and gives a beautiful finish to this excellent soup. It should be moderately thick, smooth, and fully flavoured with Asparagus. It is almost impossible to make a first-rate Asparagus soup without thq aid of green Peas, which give a good body to it. These are the fruits of Egg Plants, all of which are wholesome and delicious. The least useful to the cook is the common white variety; the best are the green and purple fruited. The first attempt to cook Aubergines should consist in simply frying them in butter and serving quite hot with a cut lemon. The next step is to cut them open and remove the seeds and stuff them with minced herbs and bread-crumbs ioThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table B 2 11 moistened with the contents of a raw egg and a little lemon juice. Fry them slowly but thoroughly, and serve with a lump of raw butter and a lemon cut into two or three parts. As a rule Broad Beans are admirably served with bacon on most tables, but it is a common fault that they are too old and require the digestion of an ostrich to do justice to them. In any case it is a great point to serve Beans with Parsley butter, for the harmony of flavours is then complete ; without good butter containing plenty of Parsley, boiled Beans are but a coarse dish. But the cookery of Broad Beans is not yet dis- posed of. We will begin with some nice young Beans quite fresh gathered, green, tender and hand- some. Probably it will not occur to many to cook them in the pods, but it may be done with advan- tage, and if served with a smothering of well-made Parsley butter, the dish will be pronounced excellent. Full-grown Beans must be shelled and have about twenty minutes’ hard boiling. They should never be boiled with the bacon for a good table, but there is nothing so suitable to eat with them as bacon or ham. Old Beans should be well cooked, and being strained off should be thrown on to a clean cloth and have the skins removed. They are then to be put into a stewpan with some white sauce and an abundance of Parsley chopped fine and stirred round occasionallyThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 12 until they have become thoroughly hotted. Or, if time permit, mash them with a fork, dust them with flour, throw in a liberal quantity of minced Parsley and a lump of butter, and moisten with sufficient stock to keep them from burning : stir them about until they are well hotted, allowing time for the flour to thicken, and then serve. I DN EY J3EANS Although Kidney Beans are generally well cooked, the prevailing method is certainly not the best. How- ever, we will deal with that first. Remove the stalks and strings, and cut the beans into strips, and cover them over until the pot is ready for them. It is bad practice to put them into water after they are cut, for it takes away both colour and flavour. Boil quickly in water with the usual allowance of salt and a very little soda until they sink to the bottom. Then, if quite tender, drain and dish them and shake them up with a piece of butter, and they are ready for the table. A better way is to cook them whole, or at most only cut in halves, crosswise, so as not to cut through the seeds. When so cooked they may be served with melted butter with or without Parsley, and in our opinion Parsley is in this case an intrusion. Beans which are just beginning to ripen their seeds make a capital dish in the Continental fashion. Shell out about a pint of the nearly ripe Beans and throw the old pods away. Then take about a quarter of a peck of young Beans, trim, but do not cut them, andThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 13 boil these and the seeds together, and they will be both done at the same time if the seeds are only about half ripe. Have ready a good white sauce made with milk, flour, butter, and a slight flavouring of nutmeg. Having drained the vegetables, put them in a hot dish and cover with the hot sauce and serve. This dish is easily prepared, and if well done will bring fame to the table. Old Kidney Beans are not worth much. To make the best of them, take a thin slice off back and front in- stead of merely pulling off the strings, and then cutthem across into three or four pieces, and boil in plenty of water with salt and soda, and when well cooked shake them up in the dish with a good lump of butter. The object of cutting them across is to keep the seeds in them, for as the green shell becomes tough with age the ripening seed acquires a fine flavour, and when cooked is as tender as the yolk of an egg. j^EET —ROOT A Beet-root requires to be carefully handled, because, like a bottle of wine, all the goodness runs out the moment you crack it. In trimming, ugly tails and forked roots may be cut off without harm, but the thick part should not be in any way wounded. For this reason the crown must never be cut down very closely, or an inch or two of the best part of the root, which is the shoulder, will be rendered worthless. Beets should always be put into boiling'water without salt or soda, and kept fast boiling for from thirty to oneThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table hundred minutes, according to size. As a rule, one hour and a half will suffice for a fair-sized Beet, but a very large one will take two hours. The cook must not only cook the Beet in the pot but in her head, for to try it with a fork is to provide a way of escape for both colour and flavour. Beets may be baked as well as boiled, but we prefer boiling. As to serving Beets on the table, there is, as usual, a variety of ways to choose from. Beets are served hot, cut into thick slices, and accompanied with melted butter. They are also, when cold, cut into thin slices and fried in butter with minced Parsley, and served hot with pepper and cut lemon. A \ery agreeable way of eating cold Beet is to cut it in thin slices, and pour over it a little strong white vinegar, and then add a dusting of common black pepper. For salads, Beets should be boiled and allowed to get cold, and then be cut in thin slices. Very few vegetables preserve a really distinct flavour when pickled. Onions, of course, are always capable of maintaining their own character, and walnuts never mingle with the common herd. Most vegetables possess no inherent individuality, but are quite appropriate as mixed pickles. The appreci- able distinction between them consists in the degree to which they are rendered sour, spicy, or hot. Beet, however, has a delicate piquant flavour of its own, which neither vinegar nor spice can wholly conquer,The Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 15 and the rich crimson colour makes it very tempting in appearance, especially when presented in some of the shapely forms for which cutters are specially made. There are advocates for the pickling of Beet in a raw state, but many persons find it as unendurable as pickled Cabbage, and for the same reason—their nerves are shocked by the uncooked vegetable. An- other objection is that after the bottles are fastened down the Beet continues to absorb the vinegar. To save the pickle from ruin, filling up has to be resorted to again and again, until frequently the operator’s patience is worn out before the thirst of the Beet is satiated. Boiling the roots is preferable to baking, but the time need not be quite so long as for roots intended for immediate consumption, because the hot vinegar will help to complete the cooking. One hour or an hour and a half will suffice for large roots, and three-quarters of an hour for those of medium size. Thoroughly cleanse them without cracking the skin, and put them into smartly boiling water. In a separate vessel, boil the requisite quantity of white wine vinegar flavoured to taste with salt, mace, ginger, and a few shreds of horse-radish. The roots must be promptly skinned, cut into thin slices, and put into small jars which will not succumb when the hot vinegar is poured into them. Fragments of Beet from the cutter need not be wasted, but can be pickled sepa- rately. Do not fasten down until quite cold, and keep the jar thoroughly air-tight. When once opened the contents must be used quickly.The Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 16 pORECOLES All kinds of Kale are cooked in the same way as Collards (or Cabbage Greens), but each separate sort requires somewhat different management, which a little experience will teach. Curled Kale is the most elegant of all the winter Greens on the table, and quite tender and delicious. Cottager’s Kale and others of the cabbaging class need to be cooked in plenty of water, or they may be a little rank. But these are all fine vegetables, and always better after having been touched by frost. pROCCOLI Broccoli require careful cooking, for if not well managed they are likely to be objectionable both in odour and flavour. Trim with care so as to retain enough leaves to hold the flower together and to form a green clothing. But, having these requirements in mind, remove as much as you dare of the outside, and then put the Broccoli in water head downwards, and add a good quantity of salt. In the course of half an hour or less all the vagabonds that have hidden themselves in the flower will have crept out and fallen to the bottom of the pan dead. Plunge the Broccoli into boiling water with the usual allowance of salt, but no soda, and boil fast for at least fifteen minutes, and then see how they are going on. Sweet little Broccoli will.be quite cooked in fifteen minutes,The Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 17 but the larger kinds will take twenty to thirty minutes. Slow cooking means spoiling, and a small quantity of water means that the Broccoli will have a rank flavour. When they sink in the water try the stumps with a fork, and when fairly tender lift them out with a slice, drain in a colander, and serve with melted butter, a little of which should be poured over them in the dish. It is of great importance to cook Broccoli well, and therefore those who have not mastered the business should give attention to minute particulars. If it is seen that portions of the flower are floating in the water, you may be sure that they are done enough, and perhaps overdone, therefore take them out at once even if the stumps are hard. The great point always is to keep the flower complete and of a perfect colour, and eatable down to the stump. When the stump happens to be quite tender there will generally be found those who will eat it with gladness, but the cook must consider the flower first and make sure that it is unbroken. Some cooks manage to keep Broccoli and Cauli- flowers hot a long time in the water they were boiled in by drawing the pot aside and there leaving it. Others fail in this little matter, for they find the flowers fall to pieces. The safest way to keep them when they are cooked before they are wanted is to dish them and cover with a white cloth several times folded, and put them on the cool shelf in the oven or on the hot-plate rack. In this way they may be kept in pretty good condition for an hour. When wanted,The Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table remove the cloth and pour hot melted butter over them, and serve. Sprouting ^Broccoli 1 his vegetable requires unusual care in the trimming, because the stumps are like sticks, and it also needs careful watching while in the saucepan, or the small heads will be melted away. Very often Sprouting Broccoli come to table with no ‘ broccoli ’ left. A little attention is all that is requisite—plenty of water, fast boiling, and a limited quantity of soda. When nicely done this is a fine vegetable for use in spring. pRUSSELS jbPROUTS No vegetable is easier to cook than Brussels Sprouts, yet they are sometimes ruined. The best cook may occasionally fail with Asparagus or Broccoli, or Cardoons, but the vegetable now before us is so good and requires so little management that there is not the smallest excuse for spoiling it. To trim the sprouts with care may take some time, and it is well to put them into a bowl of water containing plenty of salt about half an hour before cooking them. Then throw them into the boiling water, taking care to have abundance of it with a rather liberal allowance of salt, and a very little soda. Boil fast, and push the sprouts down occasionally, and look for them to be cooked in about twelve minutes. It is better they should be a iSThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table trifle underdone than a little overdone, but better still if perfectly done, tender, fragrant, full of flavour, and as green as grass. Serve without any sauce w hat- ever. Any gravy that is passing will suit them, but they may be served with melted butter, or with plain butter shaken amongst them and a slight sprinkling of pepper added. Cabbage Greens, or Collards as they are commonly called, furnish a very delicate dish. In flavour they are immensely superior to the finest matured hearts of Cabbage, no matter how quickly these may have been grown. Collards are as much a test dish as Potatoes, and one of the first that a young cook should learn to manage. Even old shop Greens may be served up in perfect colour and flavour by an experienced cook, while the freshest and most delicate Greens ever grown will be but trash unless handled with skill. Only decision and smartness of action are required, for the actual cooking is the simplest matter in the world. But the slow stewing process will not do. Given a poor fire and a careless cook, and Cabbage Greens will have no temptations. Trim the Collards so as to remove the coarse out- sides, and split the stumps if they are sufficiently large to require it. Boil them quickly with salt and soda until quite tender, then drain and serve hot without any flavouring whatever. Young Greens will need only ten to twelve minutes of fast boilingThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 20 to be well done, but larger specimens may require as much as twenty minutes. It is a great point not to overcook them, but there must not be the least crispness. x\s a rule, if the fork enters the stalks and stumps easily the greens are sufficiently cooked, and should be drained and dished as quickly as pos- sible. The method of cooking is the same as for Greens. Prepare the Cabbages by trimming and splitting the stumps a little way down into the hearts, and let them lie in water with salt for a few minutes, in case of any vermin being in them. Tender Summer Cabbages will require only about twenty minutes’ cooking, but large Cabbages and Savoys will take from thirty to forty minutes. There are few vegetables more accept- able in autumn and winter than well-cooked Cabbage ; and, on the other hand, when not well cooked, it is a most unwelcome dish. . Red Cabbage is often stewed to be served with game or sausages, and requires careful management. A Cabbage is cut into thin slices, the coarser parts being thrown out as useless. It is then put in a stew- pan with a pint of good stock, two ounces of lean ham cut into small dice, and, being covered close, is allowed to stew for one hour, adding as much stock or water jD ABBAGESThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 21 as may be needful to prevent burning. Now remove the cover, and keep the vegetable stewing while you add one tablespoonful of pounded loaf sugar, and the like quantity of vinegar, and a flavouring of Worcester sauce, with pepper and salt. Stir well about, and keep it boiling for a few minutes, and then serve on a dish with some selected pieces of pickled Red Cab- bage or Beet as a garnish. If properly cooked it will be thick, glutinous, and very savoury. pAPSICUMS AND j^HILIES These are of much greater use to the cook than is generally supposed. Home-made Cayenne may be depended on for wholesomeness, whereas the pur- chased article is sometimes adulterated with deadly drugs. A few drops of Chili vinegar added to a soup or ragout will brighten the flavour far more effectually than grocer’s pepper, however good. To prepare Chili vinegar, put any kind of Capsicums or Chilies into strong vinegar in the proportion of one ounce to a quart, cork close, and place it in the storeroom. At every reasonable opportunity shake the jar or bottle, and at the end of a fortnight strain off the vinegar and throw away the refuse ; then bottle securely for use. Chili vinegar should be made fresh every year, because it does not retain its fine qualities for any great length of time, and, if carelessly bottled, becomes worthless very soon. But with proper care it will keep a year, and is invaluable.The Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 22 JwARDOONS Why is this delicious vegetable so seldom seen on English tables ? Perhaps the answer to this question should come from the gardener and not from the cook, for it must be admitted that the plant wants a lot of growing. After stripping off the outer leaves string the inner stems and cut them into two or three inch lengths. Put them into a stewpan with a pint of good white stock, a glass of white wine, a small bunch of sweet herbs, a flavouring of pounded mace with pepper and salt to taste. Shut down the lid and stew gently until the Cardoons are quite tender. Then roll a piece of butter in sufficient flour to thicken the gravy, and stir it in. A squeeze of lemon will impart an agreeable smartness to the flavour. French cooks often add the marrow from beef-bones, and a very delicious dish they make of it. To boil Cardoons cut the blanched stems in strips of a convenient length for tying into bundles ; boil until thoroughly tender, and serve hot with melted butter poured over or separately. Cardoons with cheese is a French dish which may find favour in some English households. After clean- ing and removing the strings, cut the vegetable into pieces about an inch long and stew in red wine until tender. Thicken with butter and flour ; add pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Pour the Cardoons into the dish in which they are to be served ; grate overThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 23 them about a quarter of a pound of good Cheddar cheese, brown with a salamander, and send to table very hot. y, AR ROTS This vegetable is cooked in a variety of ways. When the Carrots are to be served with any boiled joint, they may be cooked with the joint, which will improve the flavour of the liquor if it is kept for soup. Moderate-sized, handsome roots should be scraped carefully and cooked whole, and put into boiling water with salt if by themselves ; but salt should never be put into water when such a joint as a leg of mutton is to be boiled. The Carrots will require one to two hours’ boiling, according to size ; and although they must be cooked until quite tender, care must be taken not to boil them too long, or they will have no flavour. When done, take them up and carefully cut from them any black spots, and then divide them lengthwise into four parts, and so serve, looking bright and emitting an agreeable odour. Many cooks cut them before cooking, which is a most objection- able practice, for it lets out the flavour, and they never look so nice as when boiled whole and cut just before they go to the table. Small young Carrots make a most delicate dish, and require but half an hour’s cooking. To make a change, they may, when served, be smothered with a white sauce made with flour, butter, a very little minced Onion, a little minced Parsley, a little gratedThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 24 nutmeg, and salt, to which add enough stock to make a thick sauce ; boil about five minutes to cook the flavouring herbs. Carrot pudding and Carrot jam are favourite delicacies. The first is made in the fashion of a plum pudding, a large proportion of grated Carrot being employed ; the second is made by boiling grated Carrots, with an equal weight of sugar, until a thick confection is the result. This has often been found of service as an anti-scorbutic, and was held in great esteem by Captain Cook, to assist his men at times when they were threatened with scurvy. When well made it is a good imitation of Apricot jam. Pauliflower For beauty of appearance and delicacy of flavour, the Cauliflower is justly held in high esteem. It requires most careful cooking, and when properly dressed is a kingly vegetable. It might suffice to refer to Broccoli, for what is there said applies to Cauli- flower also. There may be some excuse for a little strong flavour in Broccoli, because often they are ex- posed to unkind weather for a long time before they are cut ; but there is no excuse for either a strong flavour or an unpleasant odour in the case of a Cauliflower, for it is grown in the summer and should always be delicate. Plunge in salt and water for half an hour before cooking, and make sure the heads are quite clean. Put them in fast-boiling water with salt, but no soda, and keep them boiling fast with the lid off; or if theyThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 25 c do not boil up quickly, put the lid on until the bub- bling begins, and then remove it. Be careful to cook them just enough, so that the stalk part is tender and the flower unbroken, for the stalk part is preferred by many to the flower when well cooked. Serve with plain melted butter if to be eaten with meat; but if to be eaten as a separate dish, serve with cream to which has been added a little nutmeg. In the absence of cream make a nice melted butter, using milk instead of water, and this with a little nutmeg will make an appropriate sauce. Cauliflower and cheese is prepared by boiling the Cauliflowers in the usual way, and they are then covered thinly with white sauce. A mixture of grated Parmesan cheese and bread-crumbs is sprinkled upon them, and a little melted fresh butter dropped over all. Put into a hot oven for a few minutes, and then brown with a salamander. If well done, the cheese and Cauliflower will be so blended as to be scarcely distinguishable, and the cheese will form strings as the dish is divided at table. pELERY This vegetable is more often cooked than formerly, and when there is a glut of Celery in the garden, it may be made as useful on the table in autumn as Sea Kale is in spring. As an accompaniment to a turkey, or to any white meat, stewed Celery is admirable. Select only the inner tender stalks that are perfectly blanched, taking care not to prepare them too soon,The Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 26 for it is not good to steep them in water before cook- ing. Having cut them into convenient lengths and tied in small bundles, boil them with a little salt until tender, which will be in about twenty minutes. Serve on toast with white sauce. When intended to be eaten as a separate dish, prepare a sauce of cream and pounded mace, which put over the fire until thick ; or, in the absence of cream, prepare a sauce as advised under Cauliflower, but flavour with mace instead of nutmeg. Celery may be stewed in stock, and when done thickened with cream and flour with a little pounded mace, and served in the gravy. In some households Celery soup is regarded as a great delicacy. To make it, shred two entire and per- fectly clean plants into a saucepan, together with the remnants of a fowl, a few slices of lean ham, and one quart of stock. Simmer for three or four hours. Clarify the soup with the white of an egg, and strain it nicely; then add some small prime pieces of blanched Celery which have previously been boiled in stock until they are tender. When served as a salad, Celery must be carefully trimmed and washed, and so cut that it can be drawn out of the glass in convenient portions, for often one gets too much, and it is not an easy matter to return it when once taken. Another point of importance is not to prepare it too soon, for if kept in water any length of time the delicate flavour is very seriously diminished.The Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 27 j^HlCORY If stewed and served with melted butter, Chicory bears a slight resemblance to Sea Kale. Its chief value, however, is for use as a winter or spring salad, or for eating in the same manner as Celery with cheese. It is so wholesome and delicious that very soon Chicory will be regarded as indispensable. The preparation of the roots involves no difficulty whatever, but as the process does not appear to be generally understood, we quote the following particulars from the third edition of ‘The Culture of Vegetables and Flowers from Seeds and Roots,’ by Sutton & Sons.* * In autumn the roots should be lifted uninjured with the aid of a fork, and only a few at a time as required. After cutting off the tops just above the crown they can at once be started into growth, and it is essential that this be made in absolute darkness. French growers plant in a warm bed of the tempera- ture suited to Mushrooms, but this treatment ruins the flavour and has the effect of making the fibres woolly. It is far simpler and better to put the roots into a cellar or shed in which a temperature above the freezing point may be relied on, and from which every ray of light can be excluded. They can be closely packed in deep boxes with light soil or leaf- mould between. If the soil be fairly moist, watering will not be necessary for a month, and had better not be resorted to until the plants show signs of flagging. I ublishers, Hamilton, Adams, & Co., 32 Paternoster Row, London. Price 3^.The Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table Instead of boxes a couple of long and very wide boards stood on edge and supported from the outside make a convenient and effective trough. The packing of the roots with soil can be commenced at one end and be gradually extended through the entire length until the part first used is ready for a fresh start. Breaking the leaves is better than cutting, and it may begin about three weeks after the roots are stored. From well- grown specimens heads may be obtained equal to a compact Cos Lettuce, and by a little management it is easy to maintain a supply from October until the end of May. The quantity of salading to be obtained from a few roots is really astonishing.’ The full-grown but unripe Cobs of Maize or Indian Corn make a dish which is comparatively un- known in this country, although it is much esteemed by the few who are familiar with it. The Cobs must be taken before the seeds become hard. Remove the sheath and fibres, and plunge into boiling water with salt, and keep boiling for twenty minutes ; then try them, and, if not done, give them a few minutes more. When sufficiently cooked, drain, and serve on toast, with a tureen of melted butter. The flavour is pecu- liar, and by some is likened to Asparagus.The Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 29 ALAD Often in early spring Corn Salad is of the greatest value both for salads and to cook as Spfinach. The plant being cut over in green tufts and slightly trimmed, makes a most elegant salad with the usual dressing of oil and vinegar, in which the oil should predominate to bring out the singularly pleasant flavour of the vegetable. When boiled as Spinach, it should be chopped up with butter and flavoured with a very slight dusting of grated nutmeg. Corn Salad has yet to be appreciated as it deserves. This plant supplies us with a good Cabbage and a good imitation of Asparagus or Sea Kale, the first in the head of the plant, the second in the midribs of the larger leaves. The cook may considerately advise the gardener to grow this excellent vegetable on his best ground, because fat stalks are wanted, and when well grown they are tender and delicately flavoured. To prepare the stalks or midribs is easy enough, but they should not be made ready until the moment has nearly arrived for cooking them, for they suffer deterioration if kept for any length of time in water. Cut them in convenient lengths, tie in bundles, and boil fast, with a liberal allowance of salt and very little soda, for about fifteen minutes. When quite tender, drain and serve with melted butter or a thick savoury brown gravy. The top cabbage is loose in OUV RONCHUDAThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 30 texture, and requires rather less boiling than a com- mon Cabbage, but otherwise it may be dealt with in the same way. Various kinds of Cress come into the hands of the cook for several purposes. If they are not young and fresh they are worthless. In our large towns these articles must, as a rule, be purchased, and as regards Water Cress there is no objection to buying it ; but other kinds that have been cut, packed, marketed, and then retailed, often reach the consumer in poor condition. When derived from the garden all the kinds are useful, and more especially Water Cress and Australian Cress. Cresses are often thrown into water and left some time to be ready for use, but it is bad practice. They can be much better kept in loose bunches, standing in large jam-pots or common beer- jugs, with the stems in water. At the last moment they should be picked and rinsed and sent to table with some of their proper crispness and flavour in them. An excellent spring salad may be made with equal parts of Corn Salad and Water Cress, taking care to throw out all stalks and stumps. A tiny touch of the flavour of Mint will be an improvement, but it is not necessary. In the dressing there should be nearly twice as much oil as vinegar, but not a drop more of either than the vegetables will absorb. When there is any accumulation of liquor at the bottom of the salad bowl, it is a proof that the salad was not dressed with perfect skill. RESSESThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table P UCUMBERS Cucumbers require careful handling by the cook, but they are of great value and may be used in a variety of ways. To serve as a salad, pare a suffi- cient portion, beginning at the flower end, for all Cu- cumbers are bitter near the stalk, cut in thin slices, and then just cover with a mixture of equal parts of salad oil and white vinegar, with a very little pepper and salt. By paring only as much as is to be cut up, the remainder can be saved for future use, but it would soon become worthless if peeled and then put away. Cucumber may be added to any soup or stew, and is especially good in a rich haricot. Cut in thin slices and add at the last moment; boil up for a few seconds only, and the dish may then be served. If the Cucumber is cooked for any length of time, it will melt away. This may be allowed in the case of a haricot, as the flavour will be there if the slices are no longer visible. A few thin slices boiled up in a light clear soup make an elegant variation, and will be welcomed as a change. A substantial dish of Cucumber and eggs may be prepared as follows : Cut a Cucumber into thick slices and slightly dust with flour on both sides, put these into a stewpan with a little good stock, minced Parsley, and a lump of sugar, and let them simmer for a quarter of an hour, then add a dessert-spoonful of pounded white sugar, the yolks of two eggs, and a little salt and pepper, and one dessert-spoonful of vinegar and half that quantity of Worcester sauce ; 3iThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 32 boil up and stir round, taking care that it does not burn and that the slices of Cucumber are not broken. Cucumber may be sliced and fried in butter, as recommended for Egg-fruits, and if a variation is needed add a little minced Onion and fry both together, and having drained away the grease, serve with a very little Worcester sauce to moisten the dish. Pandelion The leaves of Dandelion must be perfectly blanched of a delicate yellowish-white colour to be fit to eat; if green, they are bitter. As a salad by itself it is useful, but it may be added to any mixed salad in smallish proportions, and all the hard stems should be removed. Being a most valuable anti-scorbutic, it is often served like Mustard, to be eaten with bread and butter. Those who are afflicted with any skin disease will derive great benefit from the regular, but moderate, use of the Dandelion in its simple form, without any dressing. With plenty of nourishing food and outdoor exercise, the Dandelion may prove to be a sufficient medicine for the restoration of health. In any case, it is a corrective and a purifier, and tends to provoke healthy appetite. j^NDIVE As a salad Endives are prized when Lettuces are scarce, and for this purpose the plants need only to be neatly trimmed and washed. Stewed Endive is pre-The Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 33 pared as follows : Take the best parts only of the blanched vegetable and boil in water, with salt, for ten minutes, then drain and chop fine, and put it into a stewpan with a little stock, and flour enough to thicken it, and about a dessert-spoonful of pounded sugar ; let it simmer five minutes, adding a little more stock if there is danger of burning ; when quite tender, add the juice of a lemon and boil up once and serve. At least six heads of Endive will be required to make a dish. A very little grated nutmeg is allowable as a final flavouring. In this country Garlic is so little used that the men- tion of it may appear superfluous ; but as the Con- tinental masters of cookery employ it freely, we shall have to concede that it may possess some virtues. As a matter of practice Garlic may be used legiti- mately whenever and wherever Onions and Shallots are allowable; but the quantity should be small, the cloves finely minced, and the cooking should be the least possible. If Garlic is cooked for any length of time it becomes rank, but cooked for a few minutes only, the flavour is delicious. When added to a ragout, it should be put in with the Parsley and have only five minutes’ cooking. ARICOT j3 E AN S The reason why Haricot Beans are not more fully- appreciated is because they are often badly cooked.34 \ The Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 1 he white beans are usually employed, but coloured Kidney Beans answer equally as well, though they are less agreeable in appearance. To serve them plain it is necessary to put them to soak in water overnight, and to allow fully two and a half hours for cooking them ; put them in a pot, and just cover with cold water and let them boil up, then draw them aside and keep them simmering, occasionally looking to see that they do not burn, to prevent which, add a little water as may be needful, taking care not to add too much. To finish the cooking properly, the water should not be poured off, but be allowed to dry away until the beans are found swimming in a thick sauce of their own making. Add a lump of butter and a liberal allowance of pepper and salt, boil up, stirring the while, and when quite thick dish them for the table. Managed in this way they are delicious and thoroughly digestible, but if too much water is used the sauce will be poor and thin, and the cooking, so far, a failure. ,To serve them dry, simmer with water and salt, and a lump of butter, until quite tender, then pour off the water, but do not drain them, carefully stir them round with more butter, and pepper and salt, and then put them on the fire again to thicken what little liquor remains, and before they burn dish them. The mode of serving them in their own gravy may be varied by adding a little minced Parsley and the juice of a lemon, after which boil up and serve. Another useful mode of treatment consists in soaking them as advised and stewing them in stockThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 35 for about an hour and a half, then add a few small Onions, or large Onions minced, and cook again for - an hour, then add butter, pepper, and salt, and serve in their own thick sauce. j^NOL OHL OR JCoHL ABI (See Turnip, page 66.) j^EEKS Leeks are cooked in a variety of ways, and per- haps the best way is to stew them in good gravy, as recommended for large Onions. Leek soup is made by boiling in weak stock half-a-dozen or so of Leeks, with all their green tops and outsides cut up rather small, and about double their bulk of green Pea shells, for about an hour. Then thicken with oat- meal, flavour with pepper and salt and a very little sugar; boil up and strain, and it is ready for the table. For a party of tourists or yachtsmen, Leek soup makes a capital beginning to a dinner, but is too rustic and substantial for the epicure, who should be kept in complete ignorance of its delectable qualities. Leek milk is often prescribed for a cold, and no doubt is a proper medicine. Cut up the Leeks, using green tops and outsides (all perfectly clean, of course), and boil in milk until it becomes quite thick. There should be no flavouring added, not even salt.The Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 36 J^ETTUCES Lettuces are easily prepared as salads, but care should be taken not to steep them in water for any length of time, for this destroys their flavour and ex- plains why hotel Lettuces are frequently unfit to eat. When Lettuces are obtained fresh from the garden, and are quite free from vermin, they need not be washed at all. Cut through the stump and remove with it all the coarse outer leaves, and the blanched interior will be found so dry and clean and whole- some-looking that it will be sheer folly to allow water to touch it. A cook who was famous for his salads declared that he had learned many things by observation, but there was nothing he so valued of his practical wisdom as the using of all saladings without washing unless it was absolutely needful, as of course it frequently must be. Take a Lettuce from the ground, wrench off the outer leaves and eat the interior as it is, and you have a real delicacy. Take another, trim it, pur it in water for half an hour, and then taste it and note the difference. It is customary with cooks to steep Lettuces, Celery, and other saladings for hours, and even for days, until they have no more flavour than paper shavings. For stewing, Cabbage Lettuces are preferred, as they are also for a dressed salad. Having trimmed away all the coarse parts, stew them in good brown gravy, and finish as recommended for Endive.The Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 37 This appetising esculent illustrates the true art of cookery in much the same way as Greens and Potatoes, for there can be no doubt Mushrooms are at once most delicious and most digestible when cooked in the plainest way and without any special flavourings. To broil Mushrooms, cut the stalks off at a little distance from the gills and peel the tops. If brought in fresh from the garden they will need no other preparation ; but if gritty, they must be carefully cleansed, and it may even be needful to wash them, a proceeding always to be avoided if possible. Put them on the grill over a clear but not fierce fire, stalk side down- wards. After about three minutes turn them, and then place a small piece of butter in the centre of each, so that it will run from the stalk into the gills while the top sides are cooking. Care must be taken not to cook them too much, ten minutes being quite sufficient for Mushrooms of fair average size. I ut them in a hot dish, stalk side upwards, and before a bright fire, and place another small lump of butter in the centre of each, and while this is melting dust freely with pepper and salt. They are now ready for the table, and should be eaten at once. This simple mode of serving them will not suit all occasions ; they may be flavoured either with lemon juice, or with Worcester sauce, or with Chili vinegar. For stewing, buttons are the best. Trim and peel carefully and throw them into water to which hasThe Ai't of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 38 been added a little lemon juice. When ready, put them into a stewpan with a liberal piece of butter and some rich gravy, and let them stew for ten minutes. Now beat up a little flour with a little stock or cream quite smooth, the juice of a lemon and a flavouring of grated nutmeg. Add this and boil up, stirring occa- sionally, but taking care not to break the buttons. After five minutes’ further cooking, try them. If quite tender, serve ; if not, give them a few minutes’ more cooking. We allow butter and cream in this dish as a proper complement of flavours—in other words, a proper harmony. But on the score of health we much prefer to omit them, for greasy Mush- rooms are indigestible, and a very piquant dish may be made by stewing the buttons in good gravy with sufficient flour to thicken, a little nutmeg to flavour, and, if needful for a finish, a dash of Worcester sauce. Many people who have suffered through eating Mush- rooms were more indebted to the grease than to the vegetables for the unpleasant consequences. Mushrooms may be baked in butter by a simple course of procedure, and the best for the purpose are the small lean Mushrooms that are not large enough for grilling and not fat enough for stewing. Cut off the stalks about half-way, but do not peel the tops. They must be quite clean, of course, and it will be better to rinse them round in a pan of water than to cook them with grit or vermin in them, although it should always be regarded as little short of desecration to put Mushrooms into water. Place them in a tin baking- dish with a few good lumps of butter, and bake in aThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 39 hot oven for about a quarter of an hour, then sprinkle with pepper and salt, and serve in a hot dish without any other flavouring. But lemon juice or Worcester sauce may be added at discretion. The preparation of Mushrooms admits of almost endless variations. Those who can with impunity eat them stewed in butter may have a dish unrivalled in flavour. Select some rather fine buttons, cut off the stalks and see that each Mushroom is perfectly clean. Washing them in water in this case is not to be thought of, but they can be cleansed with the aid of a soft cloth dipped in vinegar. Put the Mushrooms into an enamelled saucepan with three ounces of fresh butter to a quart of Mushrooms. Shake them over the fire to prevent them from adhering to the sauce- pan. After simmering for three or four minutes strew over some finely-powdered salt mingled with a few grains of cayenne and continue the stewing until the Mushrooms are quite tender. Heap them up in a dish and serve in their own sauce, which will be rich with a pure full flavour such as can scarcely be ob- tained by any other method of cooking Mushrooms. They may have the sauce drained from them and will not be despised if eaten cold. Of course the butter rind sauce when separated from the Mushrooms is a valuable flavouring for gravies, &c. Potted Mushrooms should be prepared in the manner just advised; the only necessary addition being a little spice. When cooked turn them into a colander, standing in a basin, until cold ; then press the Mushrooms into small potting-jars ; fill up theThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 40 jars with warm clarified butter and protect with paper covers, tied down and brushed over with melted suet or any other sweet material to exclude the atmosphere. Store in a cool dry place. The gravy, as a matter of course, will find a useful end. When grown at home Mustard is a most delicate and wholesome salad, but as a purchased article it is frequently worthless. If carelessly handled it is very troublesome, but a little thought at the right moment will enable anyone to prepare it quickly. It should come into the house all the heads one way, and the heads should consist of two robust leaves only; if there are more, the cook may with propriety refuse to have it as too old to be eaten. Take it up in bunches, and with a pair of large scissors clip off the stems to about half their length, and throw into a bowl of water, rinse round and take out with the hand and put on a drainer. It may be heaped up in silvery handfuls as garnishing, and also to adorn the top of a dressed salad. Many find it agreeable to eat with bread and butter, and it is often useful to invalids in this way. |Dn ION S Even those who do not care to recognise the exist- tence of Onions are not slow to appreciate the advantages of their presence, for when judiciouslyThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table employed they give life to every dish that contains them. Large Onions may be melted down for a most delicate dish by simply trimming them slightly and putting them in a pot with a lump of butter and keeping on the hot plate or half over the fire for about a couple of hours. By that time they will be melted through and ready for the table without any more cooking. A few of the outer coats being removed, the interior will be found in a state of the highest perfection, with all the proper flavour of an Onion and all its fine healthful qualities. Stewing in water or stock is a less perfect method, but will generally suit those who can condescend to eat a cooked Onion. Remove a few of the outer coats and cook in a small quantity of water or gravy until quite tender, which may be in from one to two hours, then mix about a teaspoonful of flour with a dessert-spoonful of Worcester sauce, add a good piece of butter, boil up three minutes, and serve. If this is nicely managed, the Onions will be quite tender and floating in a thick and savoury gravy. If cooked in plain water, it is only necessary to drain off the water and serve. Whenever Onions are boiled to be served as a dish, only one or two of the outside coats should be removed, for if severely stripped they lose a great part of their flavour and with it the best of their wholesome properties. But when used in stews they must be stripped freely, and the coats that are removed may be put aside for flavouring when bones are boiledThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 42 down to make stock for soups. For flavouring gravies and soups the tough outsides of Onions are as good as the insides, and as they will be strained away their toughness is of no consequence. To bake Onions remove only the outer coats, leaving the tough secondary coats to preserve the flavour, boil them in salt and water for half an hour, then drain them, wrap each in paper, and screw' up tightly. Bake them thus in a brisk oven for one hour, then try them with a needle. If quite tender, serve ; if not, give them another half-hour, for the time will depend upon the size of them. They may be served in their jackets with cold butter and pepper and salt; or they may be peeled and put on a hot dish and a little sauce added. This should be made with rich brown gravy, a few drops of Worcester sauce, and a liberal allowance of salt and pepper. j^ARSNlPS Parsnips are often so badly cooked, that from the good housekeeping point of viewr they are uneatable. The usual mistake of the cook is the supposition that if they are softened that is enough, but the prudent consumer of food likes a little flavour with it, for when the flavour is gone the nourishment is also gone, and it is a case of stewed sticks. It should be sufficient to say here that Parsnips should never be cut before they are cooked. They should be cooked w'hole in a very small quantity of wrater, and the cooking should result in melting, so that we have on the table a tastyThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table D 2 43 heap of hot creamy pulp. Wash and scrape, but do not cut them. Put them into boiling water, just enough to cover them, and keep them boiling or simmering until perfectly tender, which will require for Parsnips of average size about one hour and a half. Manage so that in the course of cooking the water will waste away almost to nothing, so that there will scarcely be any to pour off when the Parsnips are taken up. By this treatment the rich sugary flavour will be preserved, and the flesh will be melting like marrow ; very different indeed from the style of thing many people are accustomed to. With fish and salted meats Parsnips are appropriate, and, when served as they should be, are the most wholesome vegetable food in the world. The difference between the English and the French table is strikingly illustrated by the several systems of serving Peas. In this country we like them in the simplest form, green, tender, and rich in their own flavour as Peas. On a French table they are preferred much flavoured with sugar or swimming in a thick gravy, or mixed in a ragout with various meats. Perhaps all the systems are good, considering the circumstances. English-grown Peas are better than any others, and we can well afford to eat them without additions, because there is no flavour so good as their own. It has become the practice in many householdsThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 44 of late years to renounce the use of Mint in cooking Peas, for the reason that with such fine Peas as are now commonly grown in gardens Mint is an intru- sion, and tends to disguise rather than enhance their proper flavour. With the first early Peas, perhaps, we must continue to employ the established adjuncts, and we will proceed to cook a dish of these. They are to be fresh gathered and not to be shelled until wanted, and when shelled they are not to be washed. We must have a pot containing just enough boiling water to cover them, for to boil them in a large quantity of water in the way of a Cabbage or Cauliflower is a mistake. The water must be salted as usual, in the proportion of a dessert- spoonful of salt to every quart, and there should be added the same quantity of moist sugar. There must be no soda, for that is ruinous to young Peas. When the pot is fast boiling throw in the Peas, and keep it boiling with the lid on. You may add a few picked leaves or a bunch of Mint at discretion. If Mint is not handy Savory may be substituted, but on this point we give no positive directions, our business being to turn out the Peas as green as grass and with as much of the proper flavour of Peas as possible. The use of sugar in a moderate proportion does certainly tend to maintain the true flavour of Peas, for, like salt, it prevents the escape of their juices. Rut Mint is an added flavour, and it is a matter of taste whether it is used or not. For our own part we prefer Mint in all cases except when we have very fine Late Marrow Peas, and then we think we are best off without it.The Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 45 By this time, perhaps, the young Peas are cooked enough, for they have been boiling fast for fully ten minutes. We take out a spoonful and throw them on to a cold plate, and in a few seconds they are cool enough to be eaten. Yes, the Peas are done, and we pour them into a colander, and from the colander into a hot dish, and then we stir them round with a lump of butter and a slight dusting of white pepper, and send them to table insta?iter, green as grass and rich in flavour. A poor dish of Cabbage might provoke no comments, but a poor dish of Peas must tend to revolution, because everybody desires to eat them and everybody is critical when so doing. First-class young Marrow Peas are cooked in the same way, but allowing a little longer time and always in a smallish quantity of water, and with salt and sugar and no soda. But when the Peas are old we must alter our tactics. Then a little —very little—soda may be used, and a good sprig of Mint may be added, for we have to make the best of bad materials ; it is like a case of bad wine that really needs a little bush. The better way to use old Peas is the Continental fashion. Boil them carefully with salt and sugar until quite tender, then prepare a gravy with a little flour, a little good stock, a little Cocks’ Reading or Harvey’s sauce, a little Soy, and a little patience. Boil this up, and when of a comfortable degree of thickness pour it over the Peas and serve. To vary this a small heap of young Mint chopped fine may be added to the gravy; even Parsley is allowable. Stewed Peas may be young or old, as may followThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 46 from necessity. When it is a matter of discretion, young Peas are always to be preferred. Put them into a stewpan with one or two Lettuces nicely trimmed and washed, a few young Onions, a little chopped Mint, and sufficient good stock to keep them from burning. Stew for one hour, and then add the contents of one or two eggs well beaten, a little powdered white sugar, pepper and salt, and one tea- spoonful of Worcester sauce. Stir round and keep over the fire, but do not allow it to boil, and in a few minutes it will be ready. j-’oTATOES Complaints about Potatoes, both old and new, are as common as remarks about the weather. And yet, perhaps, if we were to sit down to dinner with the first cottager we might meet, we should find on his humble table a dish of Potatoes elegant in appearance and pleasant to eat. The cottager’s wife gives her mind to the cooking, as the cottager himself gives his mind to the growing, of Potatoes, and they both succeed because they are earnest in the business. And earnestness, or call it sincerity, is all that is necessary to make almost any kind of Potato acceptable on the table. One of our leading authorities on the Potato has told how he himself cooked a few huge roots of the coarse Chardon Potato, so that they were like balls of flour and delicate to eat, and only wanting in good colour, which he could not impart to them. It was earnest determination that made the ChardonThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 47 eatable, and a suitable companion to the tender steak that was grilled while the coarse Potatoes were finish- ing their career in the steamer, for the steaming pro- cess is the proper final resort with any unmanageable Potato. The chops at the chop-houses are cooked as wanted, and are usually eatable ; the Potatoes are cooked in large quantities, and kept hot to be served when called for, and the world has yet to learn that Potatoes should be cooked in haste and eaten on the instant of being ready, for slow cooking and long keeping will ruin the finest Potatoes ever grown. New Potatoes may be cooked with Mint in the same way as early Peas, and some good country cooks put new Potatoes and green Peas in the pot together and turn out a very acceptable brace of dishes, like the conjurer’s two sorts of wine from one bottle. But we do not advise the adoption of the duplex process. New Potatoes should be scraped or rubbed and thrown into cold water a short time only before being cooked. Put them into boiling water with the usual proportion of salt, and keep them boiling fast for about fifteen minutes, and then try them with a fork. When quite soft, but not overdone, pour off the water and put the pot on the hot plate or near the fire with the lid a little tilted to finish them. Or, a better way, put over them a white cloth, folded small enough to cram into the pot, put the lid on and keep them near the fire for about five minutes. Then remove the cloth, throw in a lump of butter, and sprinkle on them a very little dry salt, and shake them round two or three times, and serve in a hot dish in which there is aThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 48 hot dry white cloth in several thicknesses. Put on the cover and send them to table. If this procedure is fairly well carried out, the Potatoes will have a granular surface quite pleasing to the eye, and they will be delicious to eat. The slow process of cook- ing new Potatoes is a sure way to render them uneat- able. Now we turn to the old Potatoes, which may be boiled in their jackets or peeled before boiling. The jacket system is certainly preferable, but it is a great convenience to have them peeled before cooking, and it is not surprising that it has become the general custom so to treat them. They should not be got ready until quite the last moment; it is fatal to success to pare Potatoes and leave them in water for hours to soak out all the goodness ; half an hour of such in- jurious soaking is the utmost that should be allowed. They should always be put into boiling water salted in the usual way, and should cook fast until nearly but not quite done. This is contrary to the general practice, and it must be admitted that some Potatoes need a great deal of watchfulness when started in boiling water, but results will more than justify the increased attention. When almost cooked pour off the water and put the saucepan near the fire with the lid slightly tilted to finish them. A careful cook will keep them standing thus for half an hour without harm, and perhaps improving all the time, so that when turned out they will be more beautiful than snowballs, cooked through without being broken, and with none of their proper flavour washed out in theThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 49 cooking. They should be drained off ‘ with the bone in,’ and judgment must be used whether to drain off the last drop or leave a little of the water to prevent burning while they stand to finish. The young cook will burn a few now and then, and she had better do that than carry the boiling to excess, so as to pour away in the form of a white soup the very best part of the Potatoes. The ‘ melters ’ often give trouble, and the old Regent is perhaps the best type of the melting class. It is easy enough to cook these in the ordinary way without melting, and the main point is to pour off the water when they are about half done, leaving just a little to supply steam to finish them, keep- ing the lid close down until the cooking is completed, when the lid may be tilted to ensure perfect drying without burning them. But melters give no trouble in the steamer, and therefore the cook who cannot make time to manage melters in one kind of pot has but to consign them to another, and allow a longer time for the steaming process. There are several sorts of Potatoes that eat well but do not look well when cooked. A little manage- ment will help them very much to present a respectable appearance. Boil them in water with very little salt, or none at all. Pour off before they are quite done, and finish with the lid close down. When quite done, thoroughly dry, but not broken, sprinkle over them fine dry salt, and then shake them. This will cause a slight breaking of the outside, which will give them a granular surface and make them appear whiter than they really are. Care must be taken notThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table to load on the salt too heavily, but they will take a rather liberal allowance advantageously. It may be proper to say a word to those who have to provide Potatoes in large quantities, and cannot afford the time that the cottager’s wife can bestow upon her daily half-dozen. In the first place, then, secure a melter, such as the Regent, if it is convenient to steam them in their jackets; or a firm but floury Potato, if they must be sent to table out of their jackets and by the boiling process. Having cooked a certain number, the object should be to keep them hot as long as possible without spoiling. They should not touch porcelain until they are to be put upon the table. They may remain in hot iron pots a long time with a thick white cloth over them and the lid down without any serious harm, but from the moment Potatoes are put into porcelain dishes they begin to deteriorate, because the steam that they give out cannot escape, and is of course again absorbed. The use of a white cloth three or four times thick is of great value, for it absorbs the moisture and so pro- motes the mealiness of the Potatoes. The shortest and simplest of all ways of cooking Potatoes so that they may be fit to eat, consists in steaming them in their jackets. Baked Potatoes are always acceptable with chops and steaks, and may be considered the best as regards elegance and flavour. Large Potatoes of the melting class should be selected, as these will turn out beauti- fully granular and with their fine flavour in perfection. Wash them and put them in a moderate oven for an 5°The Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table hour and a half, turning them occasionally. They may take two hours to cook them thoroughly, but at an hour and a half it is time to consider how they are getting on. They should be served as soon as possible after they are sufficiently cooked, each in its jacket just opening to show the floury interior. At the dining-rooms, where baked Potatoes are served in first-rate style, the serving-man takes the Potato in his napkin, and by one dexterous squeeze turns out the whole of the snowy contents into the hot plate, and there leaves the happy diner to dress it with butter, pepper, &c., at discretion. When time is an object, the Potatoes may be boiled for some minutes in their jackets, and when nearly done be put in a hot oven to finish. But they are better if baked from first to last. The elegant Potato chips and fingers that are in favour on the Continent require careful preparation. One reason for their popularity with our neighbours is, that in France and Belgium the plain boiled ‘ floury ’ Potato is almost unknown, for they grow bad sorts, and have not learned our simple way of cooking them. In Holland a hot mealy Potato of the English pattern may often be obtained, and the small Potatoes grown on the sandhills are delicious. But fingers and chips favour the consumption of inferior Potatoes, just as the ragoiit and thepot-au-feu favour the consumption of poor meats. Having cut the Potatoes to the requisite size, they are slightly fried in boiling fat or butter, of which there must be plenty in the pan. They are then drained off and fried again, until they acquire SiThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 52 a nice golden-brown colour. It is the twice cooking in plenty of boiling fat that causes them to swell up like puffs, and at the same time renders them mealy and sweet within. The process favours the successive expansion and contraction of the air and moisture within the small pieces, little of which can escape, because the first cooking seals the outsides. In the second cooking there is a further generation of gas and vapour within each portion, and this breaks up the cells and makes the flesh granular, while it causes the outside to puff slightly like a delicate paste. Cold Potatoes are generally pasty and heavy, through being closely covered up in porcelain after being taken from the table. But if the cook would allow them to get cold without the cover they would retain their nice granular character, and be capable of many uses, not the least important being the prepara- tion of a Potato salad. Slice up the Potatoes rather small, add a small proportion of minced Onion, a little shredded Lettuce or Endive, and any other saladings that may be available, with one or two hard-boiled eggs. Season with equal quantities of oil and vinegar, very little salt and pepper, and a mere suggestion of Worcester sauce. Where there are many mouths a few cold Potatoes come in usefully this way to make a wholesome and nourishing dish that admits of almost endless variation, as materials may offer for it. Mashed Potatoes are best prepared from steamed Potatoes. When quite dry and perfectly cooked, put them into a hot bowl, adding fresh butter, cream and salt at discretion ; beat well with a fork, heap up inThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 53 a hot dish, and score the surface to give an artistic finish. It is not wise to mould or to brown this dish, for appearances are in this way gained at the expense of the digestion. Potatoes well mashed are delicate and wholesome ; Potatoes moulded and browned lose their flavour, and in some degree their wholesomeness. Too much cooking is as great an evil as too many cooks. The perforated implement for rendering mashed Potatoes light and granular is so eminently successful that the result may not inappropriately be described as Potato Flummery. Certainly the dish does look very tempting, and there its merits end. Serve two dishes of mashed Potatoes, one in the fashion recom- mended above, the other passed through the perfor- ated masher, and each diner will be able to determine whether appearance or utility shall be king. J\ADISHES Radishes are somewhat indigestible when full}' grown, but when quite young are suitable for the most delicate digestion. When employed in salads a very few minced or thinly-sliced red Radishes will suffice to give colour and flavour ; if used in too large a pro- portion, they render the salad coarse. An agreeable way of using them is to lay a few very young scarlet Radishes on the top of the salad as a garnishing, and let those have them who choose. Then the well-dressed salad can be eaten without them, to the advantage perhaps of the seniors at the table.The Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 54 When served as a side dish, Radishes should have a little of the green top left, and should otherwise be clean and bright and tailless. In an emergency, White Turnip Radishes may be cooked and served in the place of young Turnips, and many prefer them to Turnips when nicely cooked. Rhubarb In the garden, Rhubarb is a vegetable ; on the table it is invariably presented as a fruit, and we might, therefore, pass it by as outside the scope of the present work. But in the interest of invalids and others, who are compelled to avoid ordinary pastry because of the penalty its consumption entails, there is one thing we wish to say about Rhubarb, which is also applicable to other fruits as they follow in their season. It may be truly urged that many of those who cannot eat pastry, may find consolation in stewed fruit, but the fact is beyond question that the temptations in the two cases are very unequal. Well, prepare some fresh, tender Rhubarb by stringing the sticks and cutting into the usual short pieces ; nearly fill a dish, adding, perhaps, a little lemon, or other suitable flavouring, and smother with sugar as for an ordinary tart. But instead of finishing with paste, coyer the fruit with bread soaked in water just long enough to moisten without breaking it. Dot the bread over with nuggets of butter, and bake so as to cook the fruit thoroughly and the bread of a nice golden brown without burn- ing a crumb. Invalids, who dare not touch ordinaryThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 55 pastry, may enjoy this form of tart, and it will be a great favourite with children. A variation consists in soaking the bread in milk instead of water; but we object on several grounds. The milk curdles, and spoils the appearance of the fruit, besides rendering the dish less delicate and digestible. Of course, cream is a proper accompani- ment for those who are equal to the combination. JSalads / As a rule, salads in this country are poor things as compared with salads on the Continent; but whoever has made one good salad will find it an easy matter to make another, although with quite different materials and in another season of the year. A summer salad should be somewhat crisp and with a little sparkle in the flavour. A winter salad should be smooth and rather comforting than sparkling in flavour. In all cases we require good vegetables and enough of them, so that we can afford to throw out all the coarse parts. It is the bane of English salads that they almost in- variably contain a lot of hard stalks and leaves that are not fit to be eaten by any human being, and that no French salad-maker would be so unjust as to put into the bowl. For winter salads Cabbage Lettuces are to be preferred before Endive, which is somewhat indigestible, though a most excellent salad. Even in summer, if a first-class salad is a matter of importance, Cabbage Lettuces should be preferred to the Cos varieties, because more tender and taking the oil moreThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 56 kindly. However, he will he but a poor salad-maker who cannot use Cos Lettuces to advantage at any time of the year. To make a nice salad for six to ten persons, in winter or spring, proceed as follows : Be prepared with two fine Cabbage Lettuces, a heap of Water Cresses about equal in bulk to the Lettuces, a few young Onions, a boiled Beet-root, one cold floury Potato (set aside for the purpose at the time of cooking and not a pasty one saved from the leavings of the table), one or two hard-boiled eggs, and a sprig of young Mint. Proceed to cut these up in the hand so as to have no noisy chopping. Having stripped the outer leaves and cut the stump out of a Lettuce, take it in the left hand and shred it into the bowl with a knife in the other hand ; proceed thus until all the vegetables are disposed of, not one scrap of tough stalk or out- side leaf being allowed a place in the bowl, the very tops of the Cresses only being used ; the Potato is then beaten with a fork to a fine meal and is scattered over, and about two slices of Beet cut into small dice are added, then the eggs are cut up in the same way from the hand. For the dressing, mix in a basin one dessert- spoonful of raw mustard, a small pinch of red pepper, three table-spoonfuls of the best salad oil, and the same of tarragon vinegar ; this, when beaten smooth, is poured over the mixture, and a good stir-up makes an end of the business. You will ask about salt, and the answer is that it is not wanted in such a salad. If you add ever so much, there are people who will add more when they eat the salad, not knowing that a properly-prepared dish of this class needs no additionsThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table E 57 on the table. The critical salad-eater will lean to oil rather than to vinegar, and will consider salt an intru- sion in a good salad. The uncritical eater will lean to vinegar rather than to oil, and perhaps may dote on salt and sugar. The variations in salads are endless. A summer salad may be crisp, and Potato and Beet may be dis- pensed with, and it maybe a little sharp with vinegar, which a winter salad certainly should not be, for a predominance of oil then is most agreeable to the cul- tivated palate and decidedly beneficial to the health. A good winter salad may be made with Celery, Endive, Water Cress, Beet-root, Potato, and boiled eggs. The materials should be cut rather small, but should not be minced. Too often the coarseness of the material and the large size of the pieces compel one to think of the pig-trough. The summer season affords a great variety of materials for salads, not the least important among them being Cucumbers and Tomatoes. A few flowers of Tropseolum may always be em- ployed to garnish a salad, because they are true salad plants, but flowers that are known to be uneatable, or which may perhaps be suspected of poisonous proper- ties, should be avoided. It cannot, indeed, hurt a salad to lay upon it, when finished, a few flowers of any kind, for they will be removed when the serving out commences ; but good taste rests on sound prin- ciples, and good taste requires that the decoration of a salad should be accomplished only with such flowers or vegetables as may with safety be eaten by thoseThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 58 who may choose to eat them. A few sprigs of varie- gated Kale are allowable ; the flowers of the Tropse- olum, Dahlia, Marigold, and Wallflower are suitable, because they are all properly edible, even if no one desires to eat them; but two or three slices of Beet will generally answer the purpose, and those who in- tend a salad to be eaten will think more of the neces- sary dressing than of the unnecessary decoration. One more word. A salad should not be made until it is wanted, for it is a thing that keeps badl\, but in the event of having to prepare it some time in ad- vance, proceed as follows : Cut up the stuff and let it remain as cut without mixing it, taking care in this case to put a layer of Lettuce on last of all, mix the dressing and pour it in quietly, so that it will run to the bottom of the bowl at once, and cover the whole down as closely as possible. When wanted for the table, give it a good stir-up, and put on a few fresh- cut slices of Beet or a few flowers. A salad may be kept ready for use two or three hours in a cool place if thus treated, but care must be taken not to stir it until it is wanted. pALSIFY This root is rather troublesome because of its ten- dency to become black in the course of cooking. Scrape the roots and throw them into water in which there is a little lemon juice. Do not divide them, but cook them whole in water containing salt, some lemon juice, and a rather large lump of butter. After boiling half an hourThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 59 E 2 try them with a wooden skewer or a silver fork, but not with steel. If done, drain and serve on toast with cream sauce. The liquor from tinned oysters may be used with good effect to prepare a sauce for Salsify, with butter, flour, and a shadow of mace. It is no injury to the tinned oysters to take the liquor from them, because this is the only part that is of the slightest use, tinned oysters being like scraps of leather, but the liquor has a fine oyster flavour and makes a proper harmony with Salsify. To make imitation oyster of Salsify, boil in the usual way and put the dish aside uncovered. When cold cut in thin slices and fry in butter to a nice golden-brown colour. Serve with crisped Parsley and sauce made with butter, floyr, and the liquor from tinned or fresh oysters. Scorzonera contains a certain amount of bitterness, and therefore, before cooking, it is usually scraped and steeped in water for an hour or two. Boil and serve in the same way as Salsify. d his vegetable is easily cooked, and may be trusted to a beginner where there is some promise of unfold- ing talent. At the same time it is possible to spoil even Sea Kale, and it is better to eat when well cooked (Scorzonera than when ill cooked. Trim it up nicely, leaving justThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 60 enough stump to each piece to hold the parts together in pretty lots, and having fairly washed them tie in small bundles. Boil in water with salt only, no soda, and no lemon juice. In about twenty minutes the cooking will be completed, but crisp Kale is not to be allowed, therefore be sure that it is cooked enough. It is not necessary to put Sea Kale on toast, although it is often served in that way. But a tureen of good white sauce is requisite, and a little of it should be poured over the Kale. This delicate vege- table makes a nice accompaniment to a stewed chop or any ragout if cut to half lengths and put in about half an hour before the cooking of the dish is com- pleted. French cooks have long employed Sorrel with excel- lent effect, and in this country it is rapidly attaining the position which its fine wholesome qualities and piquant flavour merit. In many households it is now highly prized as an ingredient in salads and sauces. It also harmonises well with Spinach, and may either be cooked in the company of that vegetable or be treated as a separate dish in the same fashion. To make Sorrel soup, boil one pound of perfectly clean picked leaves, and when quite done turn into a hair sieve. After the water has drained off, force the Sorrel through the sieve, return it to the sauce- pan with rather more than an ounce of butter, an Onion, and a Carrot finely sliced. Toss the sauce-The Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 61 pan until the contents are done, add a quantity of good stock quite free from fat, pepper and salt to taste, and, where it is appreciated, a little powdered loaf sugar. Boil for a few moments, then strain the soup through a fine colander into the tureen, in which there should be small dice of bread fried in butter. An excellent puree of Sorrel is made by placing a quantity of picked leaves in a saucepan with a little water, and some salt. When cooked drain the vege- table, pass it through a hair sieve, and return it to the saucepan with a piece of butter, into which a table- spoonful of flour has been worked ; add pepper and salt to taste, and the yolk of one egg beaten up with a little rich stock. jbPINACH Spinach may be said to divide the world into two factions, comprising those who love it and those who hate it. Perhaps many who hate it would come over to the happier faction if the cooks would do their duty. It is really ludicrous to hear a contented diner say ‘the Spinach was delicious, not at all gritty.’ As if a cook above the status of a sloven could ever send to table gritty Spinach. But this brings us to the first stage of the cooking, and that is the washing. The proper way to wash Spinach is to swing it round in two or three waters, and these should not be drained from the Spinach, but the floating Spinach should be taken out by hand and put into another clean bowl or pan, and fresh water should be poured upon it, andThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 62 the swinging should be repeated. If the water is cruelly cold, add a little warm to it ; this will not hurt the Spinach, and it will save the kitchenmaid the agonies that probably might explain why very often the Spinach is gritty. Being washed, the next stage is to cram it into a pot containing a small quantity of boiling water, a liberal quantity of salt, and no soda. Keep it on a strong fire and frequently push it down with a wooden spoon, and after the lapse of about ten minutes take out a little to see if it is done. I he experienced cook knows in a moment without tasting it, but the young cook may be allowed to eat the sample and form an opinion. Perhaps another bubble may be good for it, and then it must be turned out into the colander and left for some minutes to drain. Now begins the finishing process, simple enough, but not to be trifled with. The draining must be followed by pressing, and when pressed fairly well it may be put in a hot dish and be chopped over with a generous allowance of butter and pepper, and finally cut across into smallish portions and so sent to table green and fragrant and as hot as fire. There is another method, which consists in putting the chopped and pressed Spinach into a stewpan with butter and pepper and placing this over the fire and stirring it until quite hot and comparatively dry, and then serving in a hot dish with delicate sippets of hot buttered toast for garnishing. On the Continent, Spinach is usually flavoured with nutmeg, and it is sometimes served with cream. This is a simple business. The Spinach is boiledThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 63 and chopped in the usual way, and is then put in a stewpan with butter, cream, a little nutmeg and powdered sugar. It is prudent to boil the cream first, but it is not always necessary. Stir well about, and serve on a hot dish, with sippets of buttered toast. There may also be an addition of quartered hard- boiled eggs for those who like them. j^ERPETUAL jbPINACH This is cooked in the same way as common Spinach, but requires more water and a few minutes’ more boiling. It should always be buttered and chopped over when dished, as it is not so delightfully sooty in flavour as the common Spinach. It is, how- ever, an excellent vegetable, and comes in at times when proper Spinach cannot be had. 'J' OMATOES After years of indifference and neglect, Tomatoes almost suddenly won popular appreciation. Americans acknowledged their great value, and used them as a common article of food years before Englishmen found any virtue or goodness in them. Their wholesomeness and refreshing flavour are, however, fully recognised in this country now, particularly by those who have discovered their ownership of a liver. Indeed, it is no longer unusual for Tomatoes to be freely eaten raw, and to ardent lovers of them the small handsome fruits of the cluster varieties appear to present irre- sistible temptations. ■The Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 64 1 he simplest way of cooking is to put them on a grill, where, over a clear fire, they are perfectly cooked in ten minutes. Served with a chop or steak or sweetbread, they supersede all sauces and flavourings, and make a perfect harmony with any kind of meat! Another simple mode of cooking Tomatoes is to put a few in a small iron pot with a lump of butter, and keep this on the hot plate or near the fire for about half an hour. They are then served just as they are taken out of the pot, in their own gravy, and are a proper accompaniment to any roasted joint or to poultry. Another process consists in opening the fruit and removing the seeds, and filling the interior with bread-crumbs and minced Onions, with a very little red pepper. Lay them in a dish with a little butter, and bake in a brisk oven for ten minutes, and then serve. I omato sauce is prepared by boiling Tomatoes with about a twentieth part of their weight of Shallots, half that proportion of Garlic, a good lump of sugar, a little vinegar, and one or two Capsicums, or, in the absence of Capsicums, a small quantity of red pepper. A very little salt may be added, but this condiment is not really wanted. Boil down, strain through a tammy, and bottle when cold. Small bottles should always be chosen, because when one is opened the contents should be used quickly, or it will become mouldy and have to be wasted. Tomato soup is a fine delicacy, and requires care- ful preparation. Have a good stock to begin with. In this boil the Tomatoes with a smallish allowanceThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 65 of minced Onion, scraped Carrot, and sliced Turnip, taking care the Tomatoes largely.predominate. While the boiling proceeds, mix with a little flour, a small allowance of vinegar, Worcester sauce, sugar, and red pepper, beat smooth, and add to the soup. Stir to prevent burning. About twenty minutes’ cooking is enough. Strain off the soup, which should be rich with the colour and flavour of Tomatoes, and thick enough to be pleasantly smooth. If the vegetables are somewhat pulpy when the soup is strained from them, put them on again, with a little more stock, and boil them for five minutes, and then strain and add to the soup. The vegetables will now be worthless, and may be thrown away. Stock made from veal, beef, or mutton will answer well for this soup, but a good beef-stock of a golden-brown colour is to be preferred. Stock made from remains of game or poultry is unsuitable, for the flavour will be perceptible in the soup. Tomato soup is thought much of by epicures, and the cook who takes a real pride in cooking will spare no pains to prepare it in a creditable manner. Tomatoes harmonise so well with Onions that those who have a taste for the combination will be certain to think highly of the following preparation as a salad. Cut a Spanish or Tripoli Onion into thin slices and place a layer at the bottom of a bowl or dish ; cover with slices of Tomato, and repeat the process in alternate layers until a sufficient quantity is prepared. Add two dessert-spoonfuls of oil to one of vinegar, with pepper and a liberal allowance of salt. This particular salad should be ready an hour before it is wanted.The Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 66 y URNIPS Both 1 urnips and kohl Rabi may be cooked with- out first being pared, but before going to table the outsides must be taken off carefully ; then they should be moderately—and only moderately—pressed, and either rubbed over with butter or covered with white sauce. By this mode of procedure elegant young 1 urnips or Kohl Rabi make a delicious dish, as they have much more flavour than when pared before cook- ing. The usual way is to pare them and then divide them into four portions, but we protest against it as part of the washing-out system that so prevails in English cookery. If pared according to custom, do not follow the custom of dividing them, but cook them whole, and if they are smallish and pretty it will be well to serve them whole, taking care to press them very little, or you will be likely to press out all the flavour. Young Turnips require only about twenty minutes fast boiling in water containing the usual proportion of salt, but old Turnips will take from half an hour to an hour or more. It is easy to know when they are done, by simply trying them with a fork. Mashed Turnips are much in request, and form an elegant accompaniment to mutton or pork. Boil in the usual way, then, having drained them, press them with a wooden presser on the back of a plate, but with care, so as not to press them very dry. Beat them with a wooden spoon through a colander, put them into a pot with butter, white pepper, a littleThe Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 67 salt, and some cream if at hand. Make the 'Turnips very hot, and serve nicely heaped up on a dish. Young Turnips may be beaten up with a fork in a hot vegetable dish, and a little butter with them ; if done quickly they will still be hot enough to send to table, and the trouble is much less. y EGETABLE ULaRROWS These are often cooked too long and pressed too dry, and the consequence is that much of their rich but delicate flavour is. lost. Another weak point is using them too old, for they can hardly be too young if fairly well grown. When quite young, cook them whole with the rind on, and about a quarter of an hour of fast boiling will be sufficient. Then take them out and let them drain and press them slightly. Cut them open and take out the seeds, and, if necessary, remove the rind also, but this is really needless with very young Marrows. It is of great importance not to cook them too much ; in fact, they may be a little underdone to the advantage of flavour and no dis- advantage to the digestion. Large Marrows must be pared and cut through, and the seeds removed before cooking, but they should be cooked in as large pieces as convenient, for the smaller they are cut, the smaller will be their flavour. In all cases they should be put in boiling water with the usual allowance of salt, and should be kept cook- ing until tender. When taken up they should have time to drain, and then be carefully, but not severely,The Art of Preparing Vegetables for the Table 68 pressed. Cut them smaller, if needful, for the table, and send up with plain butter or a tureen of good melted butter. If to be mashed, proceed as advised for Turnips, but they need not be beaten through a colander, for they are never fibrous as old Turnips are. Small delicate Marrows should be served on toast, but this is not advisable with large ones. Marrows make a good dish if boiled until about half done, then drained and cut into smallish pieces. Dip these in egg and bread-crumbs and fry in hot fat or butter to a* nice golden-brown colour. Very young Marrows may be sliced raw, the seeds need not be removed, and if brushed with egg and dusted with crumbs, and fried, will be found delicious and quite sufficiently cooked. Ripe Marrows may be cut for soups as required, in which case the rind and the seeds must be removed, and the slices put in the soup about half an hour be- fore the dish is to be served. When once a Marrow is cut, the whole of it should be eaten as soon as pos- sible, or mildew will make a quick end of it. Spottisivoode & Co., Printers, Ncw-street Square, London.THE CULTURE OF VEGETABLES & FLOWERS FROM SEEDS AND ROOTS. By SUTTON & SONS, Reading GREATLY ENLARGED EDITION. BRIEF EXTRACTS FROM REVIEWS * Messrs. Sutton & Sons’ “Culture of Vegetables and Flowers” is at once a practical and scientific handbook to garden cultivation. An illustrated chapter on the pests of the garden greatly enhances the value of the work.’—Daily Telegraph. •Very complete, exquisitely printed upon good paper, well bound, and supplied with a capital index. Will be found most useful by the thousands of owners of villa gardens round London and our other big cities.’—Standard. ‘ Eminently of a practical kind. The amateur will find abundance of useful hints and directions regarding the culture of every sort of Vegetable, and all the best known Flowers which are found in English gardens.’—Daily News. ‘ A handsome octavo volume, and contains all that anyone can desire to know in con- nection with either the Vegetable or Flower garden.'—Morning Post. ‘ Many books profess to tell us all about gardening, but we know of none in which a year's work in Vegetable and Flower garden is more carefully and practically gone through than in the work before us.’—Graphic. ‘Their useful treatise on the management of the Flower and Kitchen gardens.'— Gardeners’ Chronicle. ‘ We commend this work strongly as one of the most practical that has recently been issued on the cultivation of the garden crops and popular flowers on which it treats.’— Journal of Horticulture. * The plan of the work is simple, and it is comprehensive. The essays on subsidiary subjects tend to promote that true theoretical knowledge which is the basis of all sound practice, and have been shaped with a view to entertain the learned while they inform the unlearned reader.'—Gardeners’ Magazine. ‘A very complete work, and, being well written by experienced and practical men, it satisfies the wants of the very large public who are interested in its subjects.’— Agricultural Gazette. ' A volume that will do credit to any library. Messrs. Sutton & Sons have hit upon the happy thought of publishing a book giving just sufficient instruction with respect to every one of the Vegetables and Flowers commonly cultivated to enable an amateur to be a successful gardener.’—Mark Lane Express. ‘A comprehensive work, and at the same time it treats in a popular and interesting manner of the first principles of gardening. Messrs. Sutton & Sons have done the garden-loving public great service in publishing this work, and we trust it will have what it richly deserves—a wide circulation.—Land and Water. ‘ This volume ought to be in the hands of everyone who handles a spade, or sows seed, or attends to the culture of roots. We heartily commend it to our readers.’— Live 8tock Journal. Publishers: HAMILTON, ADAMS, & CO., 32 Paternoster Row, London. Price 6s.PERMANENT & TEMPORARY PASTURES, By MARTIN J. SUTTON, V Dedicat'd by special permission to H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES. Illustrated ■with. 23 beautiful Plates of Grasses, Clovers, &c., printed in natural Colours. The book also contains 46 Analyses of Grasses, Clovers, &c., prepared expressly for this work by Dr. J. Augustus Voelcker. Printed on superb paper and Handsomely bound in Cloth, Bevelled Boards, Price 21s. Popular Edition, 5s. Complete in every particular, except that the Grasses and Clovers are illustrated by superior wood engravings instead of coloured plates. From ff)C tSilUCS, Feb. 20, 1888 ‘Two years ago Mr. Martin J. Sutton issued his very able work on " Permanent and Temporary Pastures.' which was. by permission, dedicated to His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales. Although really an edition de luxe, it met the want which had long been felt for a reallv good work on our best English grasses, and two editions were speedily sold. Messrs. Hamilton, Adams, & Co., of Paternoster Row. have just issued a popular edition at a quarter the price of the former editions. With the exception that the coloured plates are superseded by exquisite woodcuts it is brought out in the same admirable style as the former edition, while the information is equally complete and trustworthy.' From ^5f)C '®tmes, Dec. 26, 1887 ‘ The study of grasses is one to which increasing attention is now being paid. In . this country the handsome work by Mr. Martin J. Sutton is really the only modem one of any note that we possess.’ From 'gintes, Feb. 4,1886:- ‘ At this juncture more than ordinary interest attaches to a treatise just published by one of the highest authorities on this sublet—namelv. “Permanent and Temporary Pastures,” by Mr. Martin T. Sutton, of Reading. The book treats of those varieties of grasses and clovers on which Mr. Sutton has personally experimented. Nothing can exceed the fulness of detail given respecting the character, habit, history, culture, uses, and agricultural value of each of these numerous varieties, accompanied by chemical analyses specially prepared by Dr. Voelcker ; and the plates, occupying nearly half the volume, for accurate drawing and truthful artistic realisation of the tints and shades of stems, leaves, panicles, and blossoms of the plants in natural size, are probably as perfect specimens of colour-printing as ever embellished a botanical work. The fruits of Mr Sutton’s immense experience are embodied in sections devoted to every branch and phase of the subject.’ Publishers: HAMILTON, ADAMS, & CO., 32 Paternoster Row, London.SUTTON’S AMATEUR’S GUIDE IN HORTICULTURE. Containing Descriptive Lists of Vegetables and Flowers, beautifully Illustrated. •The Amateur’s Guide of Messrs. Sutton & Sons is perhaps the finest of all the Seed Catalogues of the year. Within a very handsome cover are details of vegetables and flowers and their culture, together with coloured 'plates, the artistic merit being high.’—Morning Post. ‘ For beauty of design, excellence of arrangement, and value as a -work . of reference, this Annual will compare favourably with any of the previous issues. While the ornamental portion of the Catalogue is. of the highest excellence, we can also say that the literary portion is of the most practical and useful character.’—Bell’s Weekly Messenger. ‘ Perfectly and beautifully illustrated* full of practical guidance for the gardener; within a most handsome,cover—it leaves nothing to be desired.’ Agricultural Gazette. > 1 Sutton's Amateur’s Guide in Horticulture fully maintains its position as .one of the most useful annuals published. Tt is replete with the fullest information, and well illustrated.’—Land and Water. ■ Price is., Post Free. Gratis to Customers. SUTTON’S AUTUMN CATALOGUE. Published annually in August. CONTAINING Descriptive Lists of Hyacinths, Narcissi, Tulips, Lilies, and other Bulbous Roots, AND Beautifully Illustrated with Leading Flowers. • • i t Gratis to Customers. ‘Messrs. Sutton’s Bulb Catalogue is a charmingly got-up work. The .inside is as useful as the whole is tasteful.’—Morning Post. SUTTON’S FARM SEED LIST. Published annually in February. Gratis t'o Customers. SUTTON & SONS, GtlOWEES -A-HsTID HVEEZR.CIHI.A.IISr'X'S.. SEEDi Miniature View of Sutton & Sons’ Seed Establishment, Reading.