43. 50NES of the CARPUS - Second Row. TRAPEZIUM — Presents: Ant. Inner or Palmar Surface - Has a vertical groove for tendon of flexor carpi radialis, which groove is bounded externally by an oblique ridge for attachment of anterior annular ligament of carpus & abductor pollicis. Post, outer or Dorsal Surface - Large & rough. Upper Surface - Small, concave; articulates with scaphoid. Under Surface - Convex from side to side and concave from before backwards (the bone being placed in its normal position, that is to s^j with its palmar surface looking almost directly inwards and nearly facing the unciform process of the unciform bone) ; articulates with the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Outer Surface - Broad & rough. Inner Surface - Has a large superior concave articular surface for trapezoid, and a small narrow inferior facet for 2nd metacarpal boae. TRAPEZOID — Presents: Ant. & Post. Surfaces - Eough, the latter of which is the largest and is prolonged downwards & inwards. Upper Surface - Quadrilateral, concave, for scaphoid. Under Surface - Saddle shaped for articulation with base of 2nd metacarpal bone. Outer Surface - Convex, smooth; articulates with trapezium. Inner Surface - Concave & smooth below and in front for articulation with lower part of OS magnum; rough above and behind for an interosseous ligament. OS MAGNUM — May be divided into head, neck, & body. Presents: Ant. & Post. Surfaces - Eough, the latter of which is the largest, and is prolonged down- wards & inwards. Upper Surface - Eounded & smooth for semilunar. Under Surface - Projects inwards in its posterior part, and has three facets (the middle one of which is the largest), for articulation with 2nd, 3rd& 4th metacarpal bones. Outer Surface - Presents from above downwards: a smooth convex surface for scaphoid, a rough groove which forms part of the neck, a small facet for trapezoid at anterior inferior angle, behind which latter is a depression for an interosseous ligament. Inner Surface - Smooth behind for unciform bone, rough in front for an interosseous liga- ment. UNCIFORM BONE - Presents: Ant. or Palmar Surface - Presents the tmciform procsss at its lower & inner part. This process projects directly forwards when the bone is placed in its normal position, and presents outer concave & inner convex surfaces, and an apex, which latter gives attachment to the anterior annular ligament of the carpus and to the flexor brevis & adductor or opponens minimi digiti. Post, or Dorsal Surface - Eough & triangular. Upper Surface or Angle - Narrow, smooth, articulates with semilunar. Under Surface - Has two facets for 4th & 5th metacarpal bones. Outer Surface - Smooth above & behind for os magnum, rough below and in front for an interosseous ligament Inner Surface - Smooth, convex above, concave below, articulates with cuneiform.