121 loNG EXTENSOR MUSCLES of the BA0K-2ncl Tablet. MUIjTIFIDUS SPIN^ — Is the innermost and deepest portion of the musculo. tendinous mass of the long extensor muscles of the back. It lies in the vertebral groove beneath the erector spinas and the longissimus dorsi, and extends along the whole length of the spine connecting the lateral to the postero-median processes of the vertebras from the sacrum to the axis. It is reinforced in the upper dorsal & cervical regions by the semispinales dorsi & colli, which may fairly be considered as its accessory fibres. Its origins are homologous in the several regions of spine ; they are as follows: Sacral J^egion-Sacra.\ groove and deep surface of tendon of erector spinge; posterior superior spine of ilium & posterior sacro-iliac ligament. Lumbar Region - Tubercles (mammillary) on back of superior articu- lar processes. Dorsal Region - Tips of transverse processes. Cervical Region — Articular processes of the four lower cervical vertebrae. Its insertions are into the whole series of the spinous processes and the adjoin- ing portion of the laminae; the length of the individual fasciculi varying, some joining contiguous vertebra, others passing up to the 2nd, 3rd, or 4th vertebra above. Semispinales Muscles - Are additional muscles superadded to the preceding, on the surface of which they lie. Semispinahs Dorsi - Transverse processes of the middle dorsal vertebrae from the 10th to the 5th. Spinous processes of the four upper dorsal & two last cervical vertebrae. Semispinalis Colli - Transverse processes of the four upper dorsal vertebrae. Spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae from the axis to the 5th. Kotatores SpinSB - Eleven pairs; lie in the dorsal region beneath the multifidus spinae, of which they form the deepest fibres. - Upper & back part of trans- verse processes. Lower margin & posterior surface of laminae, and roots of spinous processes. COMPLEXUS — Transverse processes of the four or five upper dorsal and last cer- vical vertebrae; articular processes of the three or four cervical vertebras above. Innermost rough depression between the two curved lines of the occipi- tal bone. - Has a tendinous intersection a little above its middle. Biventer Cervicis - is but the inner part of preceding muscle. - Transverse processes of the two, three or four upper dorsal vertebrae. Occipital bone on inner side of preceding. SPINALIS COLLI — Similar to spinalis dorsi, and as intimately connected with the complexus as is the latter with the longissimus dorsi. - Spinous processes of the one or two last cervical & the one or two upper dorsal vertebrae. Spinous processes of the axis and of one or two vertebra below. - Is often wanting. All the foregoing muscles are supplied by the internal branches of the posterior divisions of the cervical, dorsal, & lumbar nerves; the complexus is also supplied by the suboccipital & great occipital nerves.