150 TERMINAL BRANCHES of the EXTERNAL CAROTID. TEMPORAL — The smaller. Commences in substance of parotid gland between neck of condyle & external auditory meatus. Ascends in groove between condyle & external auditory meatus, and crosses posterior root of zygoma. Ascends for about two inches upon temporal muscle & fascia, and beneath skin & attra. hens aurem, with branches of facial & auriculo-temporal nerves, and divides into: i Ant. Temporal - The smaller. Forwards over forehead, and joinB i with supraorbital & frontaL . Post, Temporal - The larger. Upwards & backwards, and joins with posterior auricular & occipital, | Gives off before its division: 1 Twigs - To parotid gland & temporo-maxillary articulation. ! Transverse Facial - Forwards through parotid ^land, and across face be- ii tween Steno's duct & zygoma; joins with facial & infraorbital. Middle Temporal - Through temporal fascia to temporal muscle, joining with deep temporal branches of internal maxillary. Often gives oS Orbital Bkanch - To outer angle of orbit along upper border of zygoma & between the two layers of temporal fascia. Ant. Auricular - Two or three small branches to external ear, INTERNAL MAXILLARY — The larger. Commences in substance of parotid gland behind neck of condyle. May be divided into three portions: FIRST or MAXILLARY PORTION — Forwards beneath tendon of external pterygoid, and between neck of condyle & internal lateral i ligament of jaw, crossing inferior dental nerve. Gives off Tympanic, Middle meningeal, Small meningeal, i Inferior dental. ! SECOND or PTERYGOID PORTION — Forwards & upwards on outer i surface of external pterygoid, between it & temporal muscle. Gives off two Deep temporal. Masseteric, Pterygoid, & Buc-1 cal. THIRD or SPHENO-MAXILLARY PORTION - Into spheno-max- illary fossa between the two heads of external pterygoid, i, Gives off Alveolar, Infraorbital, Vidian, Pterygo-palatine, > Sup. or descending palatine. Nasal or Spheno-palatine. Sometimes the artery passes behind, and alonj? inner surface of, external pterygoid muscle, between it & internal pterygoid.