15 STERNUM. Long narrow flat bone, oblique downwards & forwards, and slightly convex anteriorly from above downwards, which constitutes the anterior abutment of the clavicle & of the Beven first costal cartilages. It consists originally of six segments, of which segment! the four middle ones are usually joined together in the adult, while the upper one & the lower one remain distinct till a more or less advanced age is reached. This groupment of the primitive segments gives rise to the three parts of the adult bone, which parts are from above downwards the Manubbiuu - The thickest part, broad above, narrow below; supports the clavicle & the first costal cartilage, and partly also the second costal cartilage. Gua)i0LUS - The longest & central part, blade-like, & broadest a little below its middle; sap- ports the third, fourth, fifth & sixth costal cartilages, and partly also the second <k the seventh ones. Is sometimes perforated by the sternal foramen. Ensifoeji ob Xyphoid Appendix - Yery variable, - broad, - pointed, - perforated, - forked, - deflected to one side or other. Partly supports the cartilage of the seventh rib. - The bone presents: - Anterior Surface - Convex from side to side & concave from above downwards in the manu- brium; flat, and marked by three transverse lines in the gladiolus, which lines correspond to the points of junction of the four middle segments, and also to the points of articulation with the gladiolus of the third, fourth, & fifth costal car- tilages. - Gives attachment to sternal portion of sterno-mastoid, pectoralis major, and anterior chondro-sternal & chondro.xyphoid ligaments. Posterior Surface - Slightly concave, smoother; marked in the gladiolus by three transverse lines corresponding to, but less distinct than, those on the anterior surface. Gives attachment to sterno-hyoid & -thyroid, triangularis sterni, median fasci- culus of diaphragm, and posterior chondro-sternal ligaments. Superior Border - Thick; presents in the centre the Interclavicular Notch^ - and laterally the Clavicular Facets - Convex from before backwards, concave from above downwards <& outwards; articulate with the interarticular fibro-cartilage of the sterno- clavicular articulation. Lateral Borders - Present seven costal articular depressions separated by six intervening scallops, which latter diminish in breadth from above downwards. The seven articular depressions are situated as follows: - the first one on the side of the manubrium just below the clavicular facet; second one at the point of articu- lation between the manubrium & the gladiolus (it therefore presents two facets) ; the third, fourth cr= fifth ones on the sides of the gladiolus opposite the points of junction of its four primitive segments; the sixth one on the side of the last segment of the gladiolus; fbiQ seventh one at the point of articulation be- tween the gladiolus & the ensiform appendix. Apex ~Formed by the ensiform appendix; gives attachment to linea alba, anterior abdominal aponeurosis & innermost fibres of rectus abdominis muscle.