THE MUSCLES of the TYMPANUM Are four in number, counting the Laxator tympani minor :— Tensor Tympani. Or.—From under surface of apex of petrous bone and from the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube. Passes backwards and outwards in its canal, from whence it is reflected outwards over the processus cochleariformis. Insert.—Into the inner part of the manubrium of the malleus near its root.—Suppld. by a br. from otic ganglion. Laxator Tympani. Or.—From Spine of Sphenoid and from Eustachian tube ; passes backwards and outwards through Glaserian fissure. Insert.—Into processus gracilis of malleus (Sappey), or into neck of malleus just above the processus (Gray, Quain).—Suppld. by tym- panic br. of facial. Laxator T3rmpani Minor. Or.—From upper and back part of meatus auditorius ext. Insert.—Into the processus brevis and into the handle of the malleus.— Is generally considered to be only a ligament. Stapedius. Or.—From the interior of the pyramid.—Emerges from apex of pyramid. Insert.—Into back of neck of stapes.—Suppld. by tympanic br. of facial. ACTIONS. The Tensor tympani draws inwards the manubrium of the malleus, and consequently the membrana tympani, and thus increases the tension of the latter. The Laxators produce the contrary efifect. The Stapedius inclines the stapes backwards, and is believed to compress the fluid contents of the vestibule. Vessels and Nerves of the Tympanum. Arteries. The tympanic, from the internal maxillary, and the stylo- mastoid, from the posterior auricular, form a vascular circle round the membrana tympani.—The other arteries are small ; they are the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal entering through hiatus Fallopii, twigs from internal carotid perforating posterior wall of carotid canal, twigs from ascending pharyngeal ascending along Eustachian tube. Veins. J^oin middle meningeal and pharyngeal veins. Nerves, Are :—a filament from otic ganglion to tensor tympani;—tym- panic branch of facial, to stapedius and laxator tympani;—tympanic branch of glosso-pharyngeal or Jacobson's nerve , supplies mucous mem- brane of tympanum, and gives oflf branches of communication to carotid plexus, great petrosal nerve and otic ganglion chorda tympani.