365 MIDDLE EAR or TYMPANUM Is an irregular cavity compressed from without inwards, situated between ^ the external auditory meatus and the labyrinth, between the carotid canal and the mastoid cells, between the anterior surface of the petrous bone and the jugular fossa. Outer Wall Is formed by the membrana tympani, and by a small portion of bone surrounding it. The membrana tympani is nearly circular, its vertical diameter being, how- ever, rather the largest. It is obliquely directed downwards and inwards. Its circumference is contained in a groove which surrounds, except at its upper part, the circumference of the inner end of the meatus. It is formed of three layers, cuticular, fibrous, and mucous. The handle of the malleus descends between the inner and middle layers in their upper half, and draws the membrana tympani inwards. Behind, and in front of, the upper part of the membrana tjrmpani are the apertures of the iter chordre posterius, and of the iter chordae anterius, or canal of Hugnier, by which the chorda tympani enters and leaves the tympanum. A little below the latter opening is that of the Glaserian fissure, which gives passage to the long process, or processus gracilis, of the malleus and to the laxator tympani muscle, the former being, in the adult attached by bone to the sides of the fissure. Inner Wall presents: A large rounded eminence, the promontory, formed by the projection in- wards of the first turn of the cochlea; its surface is grooved for the passage of the branches of Jacobson's nerve. Behind the promontory are seen, the fenestra ovalis above, and the fenestra rotunda below . The former leads into the vestibiTle, and is closed by the base of the stapes and its annular ligament. The latter leads into the scala tympani of the cochlea, and is closed by the membrana tympani secundaria. Behind and between the two fenestra is the pyramid, a small conical eminence, the apex of which presents an opening from which the tendon of the stapedius muscle, contained in the pyramid, is seen to proceed. Above and behind the foregoing parts is a slight ridge which indicates the position of the aqueductus Fallopii as it passes backwards and then downwards in the 2nd and 3rd parts of its coarse. Posterior Wall Presents the openings of the mastoid cells. Anterior Wall Presents at its upper part the orifice of the canal for the Tensor tympani muscle and, below this, the opening of the osseous portion of the Eustachian tube. The two canals are separated by a thin plate of bone, the processus cochleariformis. The opening of the former is situated upon a small eminence, the anterior pyramid. The Floor Corresponds to the jugular fossa. It presents the small opening through which Jacobson's nerve penetrates into the tj-mpanum. The Roof Is formed by a thin plate of bone, which corresponds to the anterior surface of the petrous bone.