IRANIAL PORTION of the SYMPATHETIC Consists of the carotid & cavernous plexuses and of their prolongations upon the branches of the internal carotid arteries. CAIiOTIID PLSXXJS — Is situated on the outer side of the petrous portion of the internal carotid artery just before its entrance into the cavernous sinus, and is formed principally by the outer, but partly also by the inner, of the two divisions of the ascending branch giv^en off by the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. A small ganglion, the carotid ganglion, is sometimes found on one of its branches. Its Communications are with : TYMPA^'IC Branch op the Glosso-pharyngeal or Jacobson's Nerve through posterior wall of carotid canal; Spheno-palatine Ganglion — This communicating branch crosses inferiorly the cartilaginous substance which closes the foramen lacerum medium. Then, under the name of carotid branch of the Vidian nei've, it joins the cranial branch of the same (great petrosal branch of the facial) and the two together, under the name of Vidian nerve, pass through the Vidian canal to the back of the spheno-palatine ganglion; Sixth Cranial Nerve — One or two filaments join this nerve as it lies on the outer side of the internal carotid artery j Gasserian Ganglion. CAVERNOUS PLEXUS — Is situated below, and to the inner side of the cavernous portion of the internal carotid a7'tery by the side of the sella turcica, and is formed principally by the inner, but partly also by the outer, of the two divisions of the ascending branch of the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. Its Communications are with: Third, Fotirth & Sixth Cranial Ns., ^ The respective brs. of comm. join these Ophthlmic Br. of the Fifth j 5 ns. as they penetrate into the orbit. Lenticular or Ciliary Gangl. — This branch of communication accompanies the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, or passes separately to the ganglion. THEIR PROLONGATIONS upon the Brs. of the INT. CAROTID These form plexuses tipon the cerebral artei'ies to the pia mater of the brain, and upon the ophthalmic arteries to the contents of the orbit, a minute plexus accompanying, it is said, the arteria centralis retinae, into the interior of the eyeball, — A small ganglion, the ganglion of Ribes, is said to exist sometimes on the anterior communi- cating artery, and to connect the sympathetic nerves of the right & left sides.