12 373^ THE MIDDLE TUNIC of the EYE. Choroid. The first point of interest in connexion with the choroid is that it is to bo described, no longer as a vascular &^^t'omcn/arf memhrsijie, but simply as a vascular membrane : - What was formerly- known as its pigmentary layer is now considered a part of the retina. The reason of this is that the pigmentary layer is developed, in common with the retina, from the primary optic vesicle, i. c., from the anterior cerebral vesicle, i. e., from the epiblast; while the vascular^ layer is developed from the mesoblast, in common with the sclerotic, the cornea proper, the muscios, vessels, & nerves (except the optic), etc. There are, however, a good many stellate pigment cells in the outer part of the stroma of the choroid. Lymph-Space between the Sclerotic & the Clioroid: Lamina Fusca. Laminai ' ' Supra-Choroidea.! A Jai'ge lymph-space is described by Schwalbe as extending between the sclerotic & thei choroid throughout the whole extent of these membranes. In birds, this space is bounded by twoi smooth walls, and it resembles a serous sac. But in most animals, it is traversed by numerous^ trabeculas; and, in man, these trabeculse are so numerous that they form quite aplexiform tissue. That portiou of this plexiform tissue, which, after detachment of the sclerotic from the choroid, remains adherent to the sclerotic, is what is called the lamina fusca; that portion which remains adherent to the choroid, is what is called'the lamina sitpra-choroidea. Ciliary Muscle. The circular fibres, which lie beneath the radiating ones, and which form what is frequently called the circiilar ciliary muscle of Miiller, appear to be greatly developed in hypermetropic eyes, and only slightly developed in, or even entirely absent from, myoptic eyes (Iwanoff). The signi- ficance of this fact does not seem as yet to be very clearly made out. It would appear that some of the radiating bundles of the ciliary muscle are occasionally inserted into the sclerotic (Waldeyer). Structure of the Iris. The main points of interest made out by Iwanoff are to the following effect: - The posterior epithelial layer of the cornea is certainly prolonged over the anterior surface of the iris, but with this modification, however, namely, that the cells become smaller and more granular than they are over the membrane of Descemet or Demours. Both the sphincter & the dilator muscles lie in the substance of the iris nearer to its posterior than to its anterior surface. The sphincter is about a millimetre wide, and it surrounds the pupillary margin. Near this margin it is thin, its fibres are closely packed, and they form complete circles. More externally, the fibres are more distant from each other, the circles they form are less complete, and the muscle is thicker. The radiating fibres of the dilator muscle form either a thin continuous layer, or a network of inter-communicating bundles, pervading the whole structure of the iris from its ciliary to its pupil- lary margin. Near the pupil, these fibres blend with those of the sphincter in the following manner: some arch round, take a circular direction, and come to form part of the sphincter j others con- tinue in their primitive direction, and, crossing the fibres of the sphincter, run inwards till they reach the pupillary margin. Near the outer, or ciliary margin of the iris, the dilator muscle breaks up into separate fasciculi, which are arranged in two layers lyingone upon the other. The fibres then curve round, become circular in direction, and form a kind of annular muscular plexus. Ligamentum Pectinatum; Canals of Fontana & Schlemmj and Cavernous Spaces communicating with the Anterior Chamber. The festoon-like processes of white and yellow elastic fibrous tissues surrounded hy epithelium, which curve inwards from the membrane of Descemet or Demours towards the periphery of the iris, leave intervals between them, which lead more or less directly into a series of cavernous spaces situated at, or close to, the point of junction of the cornea, sclerotic, iris, ciliary muscle, & ligamentatum pectinatum. These spaces have given rise to much dis- cussion. Some of them appear to be directly continuous with, and to serve for the passage of lymph into, the anterior chamber of the eye; and the canal known in many animals as the canal of Fontana would simply be the largest of these cavernous lymphatic spaces (Schwalbe). Even the sin7is circtilaris iridis, or canal of Schlemtn, which is evidently a circular vein*, is said to be in more or less direct communication with the anterior chamber: - Both the cavernous spaces, and the veins of the anterior part of eye, become filled, it is said, with any coloured fluid injected into the anterior chamber. The reason why the blood does not find its way into the anterior chamber, is probably that greater resistance is offered to its passage in this direction than to its return by the ordinary venous paths. The statement respecting the Sinus circularis iridis is, however, denied by Leber, who says that it is only a diffusible colouring matter, that can penetrate into the veins, when injected into the anterior chamber. * Or rather, perhaps, a plexiform system of veins united at intervals into one trunk. i