69 jkuSOLES ATTACHED to BONES of UPPER LIMB-4th T. The muscular attachments of the BONES of the HAND & WRIST — Are as follows:- Pisiform - Two muscles: Flexor Carpi Ulnaris. Abductor Mtitifm Digiti, or Pisi-Phalangeal. Trapezium - Three muscles: Abductor PoUicis, or Trapezo-Phalangeal - Ridge on anterior surface. Opponens PolUcis, or Trapezo-Metacarpal - Front of the bone below the ridge. Flexor Brevis Pollicis, or Trapezo-Carpo-Phalangeal (Outer Head) - Lower part of the bene. Trapezoides - One muscle: Flexor Brevis Pollicis or Trapezo-Carpo-Phalangeal (Outer Head). Os Magnum - One muscle : Flexor Brevis Pollicis, or Trapezo-Carpo-PJtalangeal (Outer Head). Os Unciform - Two muscles : Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, or Unci-Phalangeal - Uniform process. Opponens or Adductor Minimi Digiti, or Unci-Metacarpal - Unciform process. First Metacarpal Bone - Three muscles: opponens Pollicis or Trapezo-Metacarpal - Whole length of outer border. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis - Back of base. First Dorsal Interosseous Miiscle, or Abductor Indicis - Back of outer side of shaft. Second Metacarpal Bone - Six muscles: Flexor Carpi Radialis - Front of base. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior - Back of base. Flexor Brevis Pollicis, or Trapezo-Carpo-Phalangeal (Inner Head) - Lower part of front Of base. First Palmar Interosseous - Anterior or palmar half of inner surface of shaft. First Dorsal Interosseous - Whole of outer surface of shaft. Second Dorsal Interosseous - Posterior or dorsal half of inner surface of shaft. Tliird metacarpal Bone - Six muscles: Flexor Carpi Radialis - Front of base. Extensor Carpi Radialis Brcvior - Back of base. Flexor Brevis Pollicis, or Trapezo-Carpo-Phala^igcal (Inner Head) - Lower part of front of base. Addiictor Pollicis, or Metacarpo-Phala7tgcal - Lower two-thirds of anterior surface of shaft. Second Dorsal Diterosseous - Wliole of outer surface of shaft. Third Dorsal Interosseous - Whole of inner surface of shaft. Fourth Metacarpal Bone - Three muscles: Seco7id Palmar Interosseous - Anterior or palmar half of outer surface of shaft. Third Dorsal Interosseous - Posterior or doi'sal half of outer surface of shaft. Fourth Dorsal Interosseous - Whole of inner surface of shaft. Fifth Metarcarpal Bone - Five muscles: Flexor Carpi Ulnaris - Front of base, Extetisor Carpi Ulnaris - Back of base. Adductor or Oppottens Minimi Digiti, or Unci-Metacarpal- Wliole length of inner border of shaft. Third Palmar hiterosseous - Anterior or palmar half of outer surface of shaft. Fourth Dorsal Interosseous - Posterior or dorsal half of outer surface of shaft. First Phalanx of Thumb - Four muscles: Abductor Pollicis or Trapezo-Phalangeal - Outer side Of base. Flexor Brevis Pollicis or Trapezo-Carpo-Phalangeal - Either side of base, a sesamoid bone being developed in each tendon. Adductor Pollicis or Metacarpo-Phalangeal - Inner side of base. Extensor Pritni hitemodii Pollicis - Back of base. First Phalanx of Index Finger - Two muscles. First Dorsal Interosseous - Outer side of base. First Palmar Interosseous - Inner side of base. Firsb Phalanx of Middle Finger - Two muscles: Second Dorsal hiterosseous - Outer side of base. Third Dorsal Interosseous - Inner side of base.. First Phalanx of Ring Finger - Two muscles: Second Palmar Interosseous - Outer side of base. Fourth Dorsal hiterosseous - Inner side of base. First Phalanx of Little Finger - Three muscles: Abductor Minimi Digiti or Pisi-Phala7tgeal - Inner side of base. Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti or Unci-Phalangeal - Inner side of base. Third Palmar Interosseoiis - Inner side of base. Second Phalanx of Thumb - Two muscles; Flexor Longus Pollicis - Front of base. Extensor Secundi hitemodii Pollicis - Back of base. Second Phalanges of Four Inner Fingers - Two muscles each: Flexor Subliinis Digitorum - A sUp to either side of shaft. Extensor Cotmntinis Digitorum (^Middle slip) — Back of Base. Third Phalanges - Two muscles each : Flexor Pro/jmdus Digitorum - Front of base. Extensor Communis Digitorum {Both lateral sli/s) - Back of base.