260 MUSCULO-SPIRAL & CIRCUMFLEX NERYES. MUSOULO-SPIRAL NERVE The largest branch of brachial plexus. Arises from posterior cord in commoa with circunaflex, and lies at first behind Srd part of axillary artery & upper part of brachial. Downwards & outwards in front of tendons of teres major & latissimus dorsi, and in spiral groove with superior profunda artery. Between brachialis anticus & supinator longus to front of external condyle, where it divides into radial & posterior interosseous nerves. Its branches are: Muscular - To triceps, anconeus, brachialis anticus, supinator longus, ex. tensor carpi radialis longior. Cutaneous - Three, small, one internal, two external; to integument of inner & posterior, and of outer & anterior aspects of arm, and of outer aspect of fore-arm. RADIAL NERVE - The smaller. Down front of outer side of fore-arm beneath supinator longus, lying on outer side of radial artery, which artery is distant from it in upper third & close to it in middle third. Winds outwards & backwards beneath tendon of supinator longus about three inches above wrist, pierces deep fascia, and divides into branches External - The smaller. To outer side & ball of thumb; joins with posterior branch of external cutaneoua Internal - The larger. To integument, & remainder of 3^ fingers on outer side of hand; joins with external cutaneous & with dorsal cutaneous branch of ulnar. - Adjoining sides of middle & ring fingers may be supplied by same nerve, which may be either the radial or the ulnar POSTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS NERVE — The larger. Through substance of supinator brevis to back of fore-arm. wi Between superficial & deep muscles of posterior aspect of fore-arm, supplying them all except anconeus, supinator longus, & extensor carpi radialis longior.| Beneath exteasores secundi internodii pollicis &, communis digitorum to back of carpus, where it becomes ganglionic and supplies articulations of wrifltjj CIRCUMFLEX NERVE I: From posterior cord of brachial plexus in common with musculo-spiral. Downwards & outwards behind axillary artery in front of subsoapularis. Backwards, with posterior circumflex vessels, through quadrilateral space bounded by teres major, teres minor, long head of triceps, & humeroS.! Gives off a small twig to shoulder-joint, and divides into;: Superior Branch - The larger. Round neck of humerus as far as anter* ior border of deltoid; supplies deltoid, and gives oflf cutaneous filaments which perforate the muscle to integument over lower part of shoulder, Inferior Branch - The smaller. Supplies teres minor, back partj: of deltoid, & integument over back of shoulder; has freqaentljj; a gangliform ealargement on branch to teres miiM*i