297^ "Taste-Buds/* Are flask.like bodies discovered by Loven & Schwalbe m the thick epithelial layer which surrounds the sides of the circuravallatiB papillse of the base of the tongue, and which have also been found of late on some of the fungiform papillse and on the epiglottis. They are pyriform in shape. Their bases rest upon the chorium. Their apices project between the superficial epithelial cells, and present a minute opening, from which a bundle of thread-like processes are seen to emerge. They consist of modified epithelial cells, disposed perpendicularly to the surface, whick cells may be divided into superficial & deep. The stiperjicial cells are flattened, or ribbon-like^ tapering at each end, and joined together at their sides, so as to enclose the deeper cells, as, in the flower-bud, the external scales surround the internal folioles. The deeper cells are spindloS shaped, enlarged in their middle, where they present a prominent nucleus, and tapering at eithei end. Their deeper end, which is sometimes branched, passes down into the chorium, and, it % said, becomes connected with a nerve-fibril. Their more superficial end is prolonged into oned the thread-like processes, which are seen to project from the opening of the taste-bud. surrounding epithelial cells are flattened round the taste-buds, so to enclose them in a 8a| or nest. The taste-buds are now believed not to be connected with the sense of taste, since tl«|i are found on the epiglottis, which is not endowed witb taste. Follicular Recesses of the Tonsils, & of the Base of the Tongue. Beneath the raucous covering of these organs are found, not closed follicles, as was forme stated, but closely packed nodular masses of retiform or lymphoid tissue (V, Struct^ Anatomy). Deville's Gland, Dr. Deville has demonstrated the existence beneath the fmucous membrane of the und surface of the tongue, not far from the tip, of a large racemose horse-shoe-shaped glandular ma stretching across the middle line, with its convexity in front & its concavity behind. Mucous Membrane of the Pharynx. In addition to the simple & compound follicular and racemose glands described, page there exist numerous lymphoid follicles, or masses of reticular or lymphoid tissue simil those of the intestine. A collection of these masses stretches across the back of the pha between the Eustachian tubes. Mucous Membrane of the Soft Palate. In the foetus, the mucous membrane over the whole of the posterior surface of the'^ palate is covered with columnar ciliated epithelium; and, in many instances, the epitheliam the gland-ducts retains this character. Except near the Eustachian tubes, the surface epif lium subsequently becomes squamous. y Mucous Membrane, & Muscular Coat of the CEsophagus. A thin layer of plain muscular fibres disposed longitudinally bopMj externally the mucous membrane of the lower part of the oesophagus, and is continued inferiffldj into the corresponding but better developed structure of the mucous membrane of stomach. The blood-vessels are mostly longitudinal in direction. Lymphatics and a little lymj tissue are found both in the mucous & sub-mucous coats. The nerves form gangliated pl( between the two layers of the muscular coat. i