76 THE CLASSIFICATION of JOINTS. The joints may be divided into: SYNAKTHROSEjS — The bones are immoveably interlocked, and are in almost imtne. diate contact, being separated only by a thin layer of periostenm termed the sutural ligament, and, at the base of the skull, by a thin layer of cartilage. - The varieties are the; ] Sutura Vera - The bones present a series of processes & indentatioss, which fit ir '< with each other. The subvarieties are the S. Dentata - The interlocking processes are large & ramified. - Ex.: Sagittal & • lamboid sutures, i S. Sekrata - The interlocking processes are smaller & more regular. - Ex.: Tern ' porary suture in middle line of f7'ontal bom '■, S. LiMBOSA - The articular surfaces are more or less bevelled, and one overlaps thi j other. - Ex.: Fronto-parietal sutun Sutura Notha or False Suture - A mere apposition of rough surfaces. - Thi subvarieties are the S. Squamosa - Considerable overlapping of extensively bevelled surfaces. - Ex. Temporoparietal sutun ♦ S. Harmonica - Apposition in the mesial line of two symmetrical «fe vertically cu surfaces. - Ex.; Articulation between the two halves of the upper jau Schindylesis - A thin plate of bone is received into a cleft formed by the separatioi of the two plates of another bone. - Ex.: Articulation of the rostrum of the sphenoi with the vome) GoiIipllOSis The implantation of the teeth into the alveolar processes. A]^^PHIAIiTHROS!EJS — The bones are bound together almost immoveably by means ( thick plates of fibre-cartilage extremely adherent to each bone, and by stron \ external ligaments. In some cases the articular surfaces are partly covered b a thin layer of cartilage, and are partly lined with synovial membrane. Tl one class of amphiarthroses resemble the synarthroses, the other class resembl the diarthrose DIARTHROSES — The bones are bound together by means of external ligaments line with synovial membrane, and the articular surfaces are covered with cartilag Plates or rings of fibro-cartilage are sometimes included within the articul; cavity, which cavity they occasionally divide into two distinct parts. - Tl arthrodisB having recently been subdivided by Cruveilhier into arthrodise prope condyloid articulations, & articulations by reciprocal reception, the varieties the diarthroses may now be enumerated as follows (in the order of decreasii variety & decreasing extent of the movements they admit) - : Enarthroses - Globular head received into a cup-shaped cavity. Well defined caps lar ligament. The movements are flexion, extension, adduction, abductio circumduction, & rotation. - Ex: Hip-job Articulations by Reciprocal Reception - Articular surfaces inversely convex one direction & concave in the other. Capsular ligament less perfect & comple than in the enarthroses. The movements are flexion, extension, adduction, a duction, & circumduction J there is no of axial rotation. - Ex: Articulation ofi metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapcziu Condyloid Articulations - Ovoid articular head, or condyle, received into elliptical cavity. Strong anterior, posterior & lateral ligaments. Flexion & e tension very freej adduction, abduction & circumduction, rather less so; axial rotation. Ex: Wrist-joi GiUglymi - Trochlear surface on the one hand, cavity of reception to correspond, the other. Strong lateral ligaments; anterior & posterior ligaments 1 slightly marked. Flexion & extension only. Ex: Elbow-joi Diarthroses Rotatorii - Pivot.iike process turning in an osteo-fibrous ring, osteo-fibrous ring rotating upon an axial process. Rotatory movements on Ex: Superior (S?^ inferior radio-ulnar articulatio Arthrodise Proper - Articular surfaces flat or nearly so. Thin & loose capsul Only gliding movements, which movements are never very extensive. I Acromio'clavicular articulati