296''- THE STRtrCTtTRE of the SPLEEN. Trabecular Framework. Consists not only of the fibro-elastic coat with the sheaths of the vessels & the larger tra- becnlse hitherto described (V. page S17), but also of a delicate network of retiforra tissue which pervades & supports the pulp. This network consists of branched connective-tissue covm •pKi^GiQ^^ihQ supporting cells of the pidp (Schafer), which are joined together by their processeg. When they are well developed, these supporting cells may contain either pigment granules resulting from the disintegration of the blood-corpuscles, or even entire corpuscles more or lesa altered in form & colour. But they are frequently reduced in sizej and occasionally they have entirely disappeared, leaving only a reticulum of simple fibres. Small Arteries, Capillaries, & Small Veins. In the spleen, these are modified as follows t - 1. - The small arteries lose their external coat j or rather this coat becomes transformed into a stratum of lymphoid tissue expanded here «fc there into small spheroidal masses, the Mai* ^ghian Corpuscles ( Vide below). 2. - The cells which form the walls of the capillaries, become transformed into con- nective tissue corpuscles. In the largest capillaries, these corpuscles are closely packed & imbricated. In those a little smaller, they form but a single layer, and are merely joined edge to edge. Further on, they cease to lie in immediate contact, and are connected one to another merely by processes of varying & increasing length. The capillaries thus become first fenestrated, then more & more deficient in continuous parietesj and finally, losing their tubular character entirely, they merge into the retiform network of the pulp, and cease to exist as distinct vessels. Thus the arterial capillaries open directly into the areolar spaces. From these spaces the venous capillaries arise in the same way in which the arterial capillaries end. The small veins frequently present transverse markings, which are probably due to the arrangement of the retiform tissue on their surface. They run apart from the small arteries', which are disposed in tufts or pencils. They anastomose freely with each other, while the arteries anastomose but very little (V. page 317). Malpighian Corpuscles. ^ These are localised expansions, or thickenings, of the lymphoid tissue above described as forming the outer coat of the small arteries. They vary in size up to -^-^ of an inch, their average diameter being about ^ or of an inch. The larger ones are clearly visible to the naked eye, and appear, on a fresh section, as pale coloured spots on the dark background of the pulp. They are more or less spheroidal in shape. In the lower mammalia, they are usually placed either on one side only of the arterial wall, or in the angle of separation between two arteries. In man, they are mostly developed all round the vessel, generally a small one, which then peae-* trates their substance, and by which they are suspended, so to speak, from a larger trunk. Their reticulum is very slender & open, especially towards the centre, where it is also most densely packed with lymphoid corpuscles and most abundantly supplied with capillaries. Towards the periphery, the reticulum becomes a little closer; no distinct boundary exists, however, between the corpuscle & the surrounding pulp. 7