157 ANOHES of the ABDOMINAL AORTA-lst Tablet. Inferior Phrenic - Two. Arise separately or by a common trunk either from oceliao axis.or from aorta immediately above the latter. Upwards and outwards behind CBSophagus on left side, behind vena cava on rio^ht side, to central tendon of diaphragm, and divide into : Internal Beanch - To front part of diaphragm communicating with its fellow & with musculo>phrenlo, External Branch - To side of thorax, communicating with intercostala. Gives off small superior capsular branches to suprarenal capsule. CoeliaC Axis - Vido next Tablet. Superior Mesenteric - "Vide next Tablet but one. Suprarenal - Two. Small in adult, but in foetus as large as renal. To suprarenal capsules, anastomosing with capsular branches of phrenic & renal. Henal or Emulgent - Two. Large, from sides of aorta just below superior mesenteric. Nearly horizontally outwards behind renal vein, and divide, each of them, into four or five branches, which penetrate into hilum of kidney in front of pelvis. - Give ofl small inferior capsular branches to suprarenal capsule, and twigs to pelvis & ureter. Right artery passes behind inf. vena cava, is longer than left one, and lies a little lower. Renal arteries vary considerably in coincidence with variations of kidneys in situation, size, and number. - They may arise from front of aorta near its bifurcation, or from common or internal iliac; - they may divide into branches sooner than usual, or may be replaced by several arteries which arise separately from side of aorta J - one may be wanting, or there may be a supernumerary artery corres- ponding to a supernumerary kidney. Spermatic - Two; long & slender. From front of aorta a little below renal. Downwards and outwards beneath peritoneum to brim of pelvis crossing psoas & ureter and, on right side, inferior rena cava. Forwards in front of external iliac artery to internal abdominal ring, being crossed on right side by termination ot ileum, on left side by sigmoid flexure of colon. Through inguinal canal and down to back of testis with other constituents of spermatic cord, becoming tortuous near its termination, and giving twigs to epididymis, which twigs join with artery of vas deferens j pierces tunica albuginea to sub- stance of testis. OVARIAN ARTERY - In female. Same course down to brim of pelvis, then passes down. wards & inwards to attached margin of ovary between layers of broad ligament of uterus; joins with uterine on side of uterus; gives branches to Fallopian tube and twigs to round ligament, which twigs are sometimes continued through in- gu nal canal to integument of labium & groin. Both these arteries are short during first part of foetal life, when testes & ovaries lie just below kidneys, and become elongated only when these organs descend into pelvis. Inferior Mesenteric - Vide next Tablet but one. Lumbar - Usually four; from back of aorta. Round bodies of lumbar vertebrae beneath psoas, the two upper ones passing also beneath pillars of diaphragm, and those of right side beneath inferior vena cava ; and divide between transverse processes into: Abdominal Branch - Behind quadratus lumborum (the lowest one sometimes in front), and beneath abdominal muscles, joining with epigastric, internal mammary, intcrcostals, ilio-lumbar & circumflex iliac. Dorsal Branch - Sends a ppinal branch through intervertebral foramen to cauda equina & posterior surface of bodies of vertebrae, and passes backwards to muscles & integument of back. Sacra Media - Smallfrom back of aorta at point of bifurcation. Descends upon middle of sacrum, anastomosing with both lateral sacral.