34 UNDER SURFACE of the BASE of the SKULL Is bounded from before backwards by: Alveolar arch <2t^ teeth of upper jaw; Lower border of malar bone, zygojna 6^ imaginary line from zygoma to mastoid process; Superior curved line of occipital bone. Grouping points of interest on under surface of skull, the latter may be said to present from before backwards; Roof of Mouth; Posterior Aperture of Nares : Under Surface of Basilar Process, on eacb side of which is a Quadrilateral Space, the angles of which are formed by the Condyle of the occipital bone, and by the Pterygoid, Zygomatic and Mastoid Processes. This space is the Author's CONDYLO-PTERYGO-ZYGOMATO-MASTOID SPACE. Under Surface of Remaining Part of Occipital Bone. ROOF OP THE MOUTH Is formed by palate processes of superior maxillary & horizontal plates of palate bones, and is bounded laterally & in front by alveolar arch Is concave, uneven & marked by a crucial suture, and presents from before backwards £ outwards Lower opening of anterior palatine canal, into which may be seen to open, laterally Foramen of Stenson for anterior palatine vessels, and in middle line, i /vra;;^/;^^ ^^S^r^i^^a for naso-palatine nerves J ! A groove leading to i Posterior palatine foramen for post, palatine vessels & ant. or great palatine n.i Transverse ridge for attachment of aponeurosis of tensor palati; Accessory or small palatine foramina, posterior dr» external^ for posterior or small, and tb i external palatine nerves POSTERIOR APERTURE OF THE NARES Is bounded by body of sphenoid, horizontal plate of palate bone, and inner plates of pterygoi processes, whicb latter present inferiorl i Hamular process for reflection of tendon of tensor palati, and superiorly, J Scaphoid fossa for origin of that muscle. Is divided into two by vomer, and presents inferiorly Posterior nasal spine for origin of azygos uvulae, and superiorly I Expanded aloe of vomer, which articulate with rostrum & with vaginal processes • I sphenoid, and on either side of which ai J Pterygo-palatine canals formed in part by sphenoid & in part by palate bone I and giving passage to pterygo-palatine vessels & nerveiil UNDER SURFACE OP THE BASILAR PROCESS: *i Presents m middle line Pharyngeal spine for median raphe & superior constrictor of pharynx, and laterally, j Rough depressions for insertion of recti capitis antici major & minor. CONDYLO-PTERYGO-ZYGOMATO-MASTOID SPACE — Y.nextTabiei| UNDER SURFACE OF THE OCCIPITAL BONE (Remaining part)-Pr sent Foramen magnunt for cord & its membranes, vertebral arteries «S5 spinal accesso:^ nerves, on outer side of which foramen a| Condyles of occipital bone having Jugular process on their outer side. Anterior condyloid foramen in front. Posterior condyloid fossa sometimes perforated by the posterior condyM foramen behini Ext. Occipital Crest giving off laterally Superior Inferior cui"ved lines, and ending posteriorly in External occipital protuberance. For parts just mentioned see Occipital Bono. \