20J aYMPHATICS of the PELVIS. GLANDS — Are tho External Iliac - Form an nninterrnpted chain ronnrl the external iliac vessels, three or iour of them lyings round the commencement of these vessels just behind Poupart'g lifjament. They receive all the lymphatics of the lower limb, except the gluteal & the sciatic; their efferent vessels open into the lumbar glands. Internal Iliac - Burronnd the internal iliac vessels; and receive the gluteal & sciatic lymphatics, & the lymphatics from the pelvic viscera. Sacral ~ Lis on the anterior aspect of the sacrum within or sometimes externally to the meso-rectum, in the course more particularly of tlie rectal lymphatics. Lumbar - Large & numerous. Lie in front of lumbar vertebrae, round common iliac vessels, aorta & vena cava, and receive the efferent vessels of all the for-^going glands, that is to say, the united trunks of the lower limb & pelvis; their (I' ji ent vessels unite into four or five large trunks which, with the lacteals, open into the receptaculum chyli. VESSELS — Those of the Bladder - Arise from its whole extent. They run mainly beneath the peritoneum on Its posterior surface, and, after passing through a few small glands in that situa- tion, they join with the lymphatics of the vesiculae seminales & prostate, and open into the internal ili ic glands. Rectum - Are large & numerous. They pass thi'ough a few small glands on the outer surface of tho organ & in the meso-rectum, and then ascend through tho sacral to the lumbar glands. Uterus & Vagina - May be divided into supoificial & deep. Those from the cervix uteri & vagina open into the sacral & internal iliac glands. Those Irom tho body & fundus of the uterus pass outwards within the broad ligament, receive the lymphatics from tho ovaries & Fallopian tubes, and ascend with the ovarian vessels to open into the lumbar glands; they are small in the unimpregn:ited state of the uterus, but they enlarge greatly during gestation. Testicle - May be divided into superficial, arising beneath the tunica vaginalis, and deep, arising from the body of the organ & the epididymis; they form several large trunks which accompany the spermatic vjssels along the cord & iut ) the abdomen, and open into the lambar glands. FeniS & Labia - Their deep lymphatics accompany tho internal pudic vessels, and open into tho internal iliac glands.