128 MUSCLES of LOWER LIMB-6th Tablet. POSTERIOR TIBIO-FIBULAR REGION. SUPERFICIAL LAYER. Gastrocnemius. Inner Head - Depression at npper and back part of inner condyle. Outer Head - Depression at upper & back part of outer condyle above groove forjl popliteus. - Both beads also arise from lower part of the two inferior divisions oti ^ linea aspera. By a strong aponeurosis which covers front of the muscle, and contracts,; into a tendon which joins with that of soleus, into lower part of posterior surface of OS calcis. - S. by internal popliteal nerve. Soleus - Back of head & upper third of posterior surface of shaft of fibula; middle thirdJ of inner border and oblique line on posterior surface of shaft of tibia; tendinous arch between tibial & fibular origins of the muscle beneath which arch pass^ posterior tibial vessels & nerve. By a strong aponeurosis which covers posterior surface of the muscle and contracts into a tendon which joins with that of gastrocnemius (Tendo Achillis), into lower part of posterior surface of oa calcis. - S. by internal popliteal nerve. Plantaris - Lower part of outer division of linea aspera & post, ligament of knee-joint Joins inner border of tendo Achillis. - S. by internal popliteal nerve. DEEP LAYER. Popliteus - Anterior & deepest part of groove on outer side of outer condyle of femni; below tubercle for external lateral ligament of knee-joint. Inner two-thirds of triangular surface on back of upper part of tibia above oblique line. - S. by internal popliteal nerve. i Flexor LongUS Pollicis - Lower two-thirds of posterior surface of shaft of fibula i lower part of interosseous membrane; intermuscular septum between it l\\ peronei; fascia over tibialis posticus. 'I Base of the last phalanx of great toe. -S. by posterior tibial nerve. ' Flexor LongUS Digitorum - Posterior surface of shaft of tibia below oblique line iji internally to attachment of tibialis posticus; fascia over tibialis posticus. jj Bases of last phalanges of four outer toes. - S. by posterior tibial nerve. Tibialis Posticus - Posterior surface of shaft of tibia below oblique line & externall; to attachment of flexor longus digitorum; nearly whole of posterior surface o interosseous membrane; upper three-fourths of inner surface of shaft of fibula fascia between it & foregoing muscles. Tuberosity of scaphoid and internal & external cuneiform bones. - Supplie' by posterior tibial nerve.