226 TRANSVERSE FISSURE of the BRAIN and INTRA^ CEREBRAL PORTION of the PIA MATEIi TRANSVERSE FISSURE OF THE BRAIN Is of a horse.shoe shape, and about 3 inches wide. lis central part is horizontal and comprised between the tabercula quadingemina the posterior extremity or spleuium of the corpus callosu Its lateral portions curve downwards & forwards, and are comprised between t optic thalami & crura cerebri below & in front and the hippocampi majores corpora fimbriata above & behir This fissure transmits the pia mater into the interior of the brain. INTRA-CEREBRAL PORTION OP THE PIA MATER Forms on the one hand the velum interpositum & the choroid plexuses of the late: & the 3rd ventricles, and, on the other, the choroid plexuses of the 4th ventric Velum InterpOSituiM. - is a triangular fold of pia mater which is reflected into i interior of the brain through the transverse fissure. It presen Central Portion - Invests pineal gland, and covers under surface of fornix. Fr the under surface of this central portion two small vascular fringes, i choroid plexuses of the 3rd ventricle, hang down into the latter cavi Lateral Makgins - Spread out on either side beneath the corresponding mai'giti | the fornix & its continuation, the corpus fimbriatum, into the body & d cending cornu of the corresponding lateral ventricle, resting, as do margins of the fornix, upon the optic thalami. These lateral margins thick, convoluted & fringe-like; they constitute the choi-oid plexuses of i lateral ventricles further described beli ' Posterior Margin oi; Base - Is turned backwards towards the transverse fissi It is continuous with the general pia mater ; it receives the anterior posterior choroid arteries and emits the venae Gait Anterior Bifid Extremity - Continuous through the foramina of Monro Avith anterior pointed extremities of the lateral margins above described choroid plexuses of the lateral ventric Choroid Plexuses of the Lateral Ventricles - Are nothing more than the thi ■ convoluted & frin<^e-like margins of the velum interpositum. When they - described separately, that is to say irrespectively of the velum interposit of which they are a portion, they may be said to penetrate into the desce ing cornua of the lateral ventricle through the lateral portions of transverse fissure. Hence they ascend into the body of the lateral ven cle along the side of the corpus fimbriatum, winding round the postei extremity of the optic thalamus. Then continuing along the side of foi-nix, they taper to a point, and passing through the corresponding fo men of Monro, they join with each other and with the anterior bifurca extremity of the central & thinner portion of the velum interpositi j Choroid Plexuses of the 3rd Ventricle - Arc two small vascular fringes wb l hang down from tlie under surface of the central portion of the vel !. interpositum into the cavity of the 3rd ventricle: they diverge sligl |i behi;! Choroid Plexuses of the 4th Ventricle - Are two similar fringes which proj jj into the 4th ventricle from the layer of pia mater which closes that ven; ii cle inferiorly; they pass upwards & outwards from near the point of infcrior vermiform pi'ocess to the outer margin of the restiform bo