356 THE EYE Ig formeS of t'nree coats or tunics and three refracting media or humours. The outer coat is formed by the sclerotic and the cornea. The middle coat is formed by the choroid, behind, and, in the anterior part of the eye, by the ciliary pro cesses and the iris, on the outer side of which two latter are the ligajnentum jpectinatum and the ciliari, muscle. . j The inner coat forms the retina, which presents a prolongation non-nervous m structure, the ciliari i jportion of the retina, which latter extends as far forwards as the base of the iris. The refracting media or humours are| The aqueous humour ; j The leiis and its capsule, which are held in position by the suspensory ligament of the lens, or zonula a, Zinn. The vitreous hody and its hyaloid memhrane. The External Tunic of the Eye. The Sclerotic Is a strong fibrous membrane thicker behind than in front, which covers the posterior | of the eye. Its outer surface is v/hite and smooth. It gives attachment to the recti and obliqui muscles, and is covers^ in front by the conjunctiva. Its inner surface is brownish. It is connected with the choroid by a very fine cellular membrane, th lamina fiisca, and is marked by slight grooves for the passage of the ciliary vessels and nerves. Ii front, close to the cornea, it covers, and gives attachment to, the ciliary muscle, and presents a circ groove, which forms the outer wall of the sinus circularis iridis, or canal of Schlemm. Behind,-whexe the optic nerve penetrates into the eye, i.e. aboiit ^ of an inch to the inner side of the axiso:, the latter, it becomes continuous externally with the fibrous slieath of that nerve, and forms internal!] { a thin cribriform lamella, the lamina cribrosa, which is perforated by small openings for the passagf | of the nervous filaments and of the arteria centralis retina. - j In front it hecomes continuous with the cornea by direct continuity of tissue, the latter membrane bein^i slightly encroached upon by the sclerotic, especially above and below. A few small blood-vessels permeate the fibrous structure of the sclert)tic. The Cornea Constitutes the anterior sixth of the outer tunic of the eye, on the front of which it forms a slfgif hemispherical projection belonging to a smaller sphere. «». It is nearly circular, being, however, anteriorly a little wider in its transverse than in its vertical diameter Its circumference joins the sclerotic by direct continuity of tissue, and is slightly overlapped by the opacitvj of the latter, especially above and below. Its posterior surface is, therefore, rather more extensive thai j the anterior, and is more exactly circular, lis degree of curvature varies in different individuals, and is greatest in youth. STRUCTURE OF THE CORNEA.—The cornea consists of a thick fibrous structure, th© cornea proper! covered in front and behind by an elastic lamina and an epithelial coating. The Cornea. Proper—is formed of fibrous tissue continuous with that of the sclerotic, with which it if structurally homologous, its fibres being, however, softer and less distinct. It is divided intcl! frequently communica.ting strata about sixty in number (Bowman), between which is found i], homogeneous fluid material, which probably contributes to the transparency of the cornea ii Pressure renders the cornea opaque by deranging the relative position of the strata, and modifyingi iheir relation to the fluid between them. HfflE Anterior and Posterior Elastic Lamina (Bowman)—are perfectly transparent homogeneoui; membranes, very thin and brittle. When they are torn they curl up with their attached surfac( | innermost. j The posterior elastic lamina gives attachment towards the periphery of the cornea to the fibres p: | white fibrous and elastic tissue (Bowman), which form the ligamentum pectinatum, give origii', to the cihary muscle, and constitute the inner wall of the sinus circularis iridis or canal o; I Schlemm. i The Anterior Epithelial Coating—is formed of two or three layers of transparent nucleated cells; thf | posterior of a single layer of cells only. i The blood-vessels of the cornea terminate in loops at its circumference. They are principally de ' rived from the vessels of the conjunctiva ; in man very few are derived from the ciliary vessels ii through the sclerotic (Kolliker).—The nerves, from 20 to 30 in number, are derived from the! ciliary nerves, and pass into the cornea from the sclerotic; they at first retain their dark out line, but soon become transparent, ramify and form a net-work within the cornea proper.- !