20 I THE TEMPORAL BONE i Is situated at side of base of skull, and articulates with parietal^ occipital, sphenoid, malar & inferun maxillary bones Is divided into squamous, mastoid & petrous portions. gQUAMOUS PORTION — Presents outer & inner surfaces and circumference. Outer Surface — Convex, forms part of temporal fossa and presents lower part o te7?iporal Hdge\)ehivi.di, zygomatic process in front, SlU^ glenoid fossa below ZYGOMATIC PROCESS — First projects outwards, and is broad & flattened fron above downwards. It then twists forwards and presents BoRDEES - upper long & thin for temporal f.; lower short & thick for masseter. Surfaces - 07iter convex, inner concave also for masseter. Apex - Serrated, articulates with malar bone. Ba5E - Presents three roots : Anterior - Wide & transversely directed forming e77iinentia articularis ; Middle - Forms posterior boundary of glenoid fossa; Posterior - Forms origin o-f temporal ridge. GLENOID FOSSA — Is comprised between anterior & middle roots of the zygome and presents th Glaserian Fissure - For processus gracilis of malleus, laxator tympani m., i tympanic artery, and divides the fossa int Anterior part - Articular, and covered with cartilage which is prolonge over the eminentia articularii Posterior part - Non-articular, bounded behind by vaginal & auditor processes & middle root of zygomj Inner Surface — Concave. Presents cerebral impressions, and grooves for middl meningeal arter Circumference — Thin above and behind, where it is bevelled internally and articulate with parietal; thick in front, where it is slightly bevelled externally an articulates with great wing of sphenoi' MASTOID PORTION — Presents outer & inner surfaces and borders. Outer Surface — Rough; presents: Mastoid foramen for a vein to lateral sinus, and is prolonged into Mastoid process for insertion of sterno-mastoid, splenius capitis & trachelo-mastoi and on the inner side of which is tl Digastric groove for origin of posterior belly of digastric, and further inwards tl Occipital groove for occipital artery. Inner Surface — Forms part of posterior fossa of base of skull and presents descendir portion Groove for lateral sinics. Borders - Post. & Sup. — Thick & serrated for posterior inferior angle of pariet and lower border of occipitf PETROUS PORTION — Tide next Tablet.