305 STRUCTURE of the SMALL INTESTINE. Fotir coats, and vessels & nerves. SEROUS COAT — Completely surrounds small intestine proper, except along its posterior or I, attached border. The duodenum is but incompletely covered : Its first part is situated between the two layers of gastro-hepatio omentum; its second part is covered in front only by peritoneum ; its third part lies behind descending layer of transverse meso-colon. MUSCULAR COAT — Thicker above than below; consists of fibres: External Longitudinal - Thinly scattered around intestine; Deep Circular - Form a thick uniform layer. CELLULAR or SUBMUCOUS COAT — A nidus for the division of the vessels before they enter the mucous coat. MUCOUS MEMBRANE — Shaggy; thick & vascular above, thin & pale below; covered with columnar uon-ciliated epithelium. - Presents for examination: Valvulse Conniventes or Valves Kerkringius - Crescentic reduplications of the raucous & sabmucous coats, which reduplications surround two-thirds or three- quarters or more of circumference of small intestine. - They begin one or two inches beyond pylorus, and are largest & most numerous immediately below open- 1 ing of common bile & pancreatic ducts, and also very large and numerous as far as middle of jejunum. They diminish from this point, and nearly disappear in lower part of ileum. Villi - Minute vascular projections of the mucous membrane one-third or one-fourth of a line in length, and largest & most numerous in upper part of small intestine; Usually flattened or conical, sometimes cylindrical or club-shaped. - They consist of a prolongation of the basement membrane & epithelial layer, and contain numerous granular corpuscles & fat globules, and also, towards the surface, a capillary plexus, and towards the centre, one or two lacteals which are surrounded ' by a thin layer of longitudinal muscular fibres. Tubular Glands or Crypts of Lieberkuhn 7 Minute tubular depressions lined with columnar epithelium, found all over small intestine, and even in large intestine & stomach. Lenticular, or Vesicular Glands - Solitary & agminated. Solitary - Scattered throughout small intestine, particularly in lower part. Agminated, or Payer's Glands - Oval patches placed lengthwise on portion of intestine most distant from attachment of mesentery, and largest & most numerous in ileum; these patches are usually from twenty to thirty in number, and from half an inch to four inches in length. The individual glands are small sacculated bodies * from half a line to a line in diameter, and without any excretory duct; they consist of a wall of connective tissue, & of greyish semifluid contents. - A rich plexus of blood & lymphatic vessels surrounds them, and fine capillary loops dip into their cavity. - Crypts of Lieberkuhn are collected into circles around the glands, and villi are scattered between & sometimes over them. Brunner'S Glands - Small conglomerate glands found only in duodenum & commence- ment of jejunum. VESSELS & NERVES — Arteries. Terminal branches of superior mesenteric encircle intestine beneath serous coat, pierce muscular coat, to which they supply two sets of capillaries corresponding in direction to the two layers of fibres, subdivide in mucous coat, and end in a dense capillary network to the valvulse, villi, & glands. - Veins accom- pany the arteries. - Lymphatics form a rich plexus in the mucous & submucous coats, a longitudinal stratum between the two layers of muscular fibres & a subperitoneal plexus in the neighbourhood of the mesentery. - Nerves. From superior mesenteric plexus; form richly gangliated plexuses in submucous coat & between the two layers of muscular fibres. See Appendix, page 305^-