32 1 THE NASAL POSS-S:.. Two narrow irregular cavities comprised between the orbits & superior maxillary bones, and between tbe roof of the mouth & the front part of the base of the skull. Formed by ethmoid, sphenoid, frontal, superior maxillary, nasal, palate, inferior turbiu- i ated & vomer (all the bones of the face except malar & inferior maxillary), j Communicate with orbit (nasal duct), mouth, (anterior palatine canal), cranium (olfactory j foramina), spheno-maxillary fossa (spheno-palatine foramen), and with the i frontal, ethmoidal, sphenoidal, & maxillary sinuses. - Present: ROOF — ISTarrow, and is from before backwards : Oblique upwards & backwards and formed by nasal bone & nasal spine of frontal. Horizontal and formed by cribriform plate of ethmoid. Oblique downwards & backwards and formed by body of sphenoid. - Presents the suturea between the foregoing bones and from before backwards : Groove on nasal bone for outer branch of nasal nerve ; Half crest for perpendicular plate of ethmoid; Olfactory foramina & nasal slit for olfactory and nasal nerves ; Openings of sphenoidal sinuses partly closed by sphenoidal turbinated bones; Articulation of alee of vomer with body of sphenoid. FLOOR — Concave from side to side, and formed by palate processes of superior maxillary & palate bones. - Presents the suture between foregoing bones & the Upper orifice of the anterior palatine canal; Half crest for vomer, which terminates in front & behind in the Anterior & posterior nasal spines. INNSR WALL — Formed principally by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid above k in front, and by the vomer below & behind, and secondarily by nasal spine of the frontal, rostrum of sphenoid, crests of superior maxil- lary, nasal & palate bones. Has an angular deficiency in front which is filled up by the cartilage of the septum. - Is frequently inclined to one or other side; and presents the sutures between the foregoing bones and Vascular & nervous furrows & Naso-palatine groove for naso-palatine nerve. OUTER WALL — Formed by: Lachrymal hone & nasal process of superior maxillary ; Inner surface of ethmoid, superior maxillary & inferior turbinated bones; Vertical plate of palate bone & inner plate of pterygoid process. - Presents the sutures between the foregoing bones and from above downwards: Superior turbinated process of ethmoid ; Superior meatus, into which open the sphenoidal & posterior ethmoidal sinuses and the spheno-palatine foramen. - Both are short and are situated at the posterior and upper part of the nares; Middle turbinated process of ethmoid j Middle meatus, larger than foregoing, into which open the Antrum of Highmore and through the infundibulum, the anterior ethmoidal cells & frontal sinuses; Inferior turbinated bone ; Inferior meatus, the largest, presents in front the opening of the nasal due*-