29H THE STRUCTURE of the SALIVARY GLANDS. Basement Membrane. Is formed, not simply of more or less elongated epithelioid cells dovetailed one into,, the other, as in the case with most basement membranes, but also of branched or stellatejj cells. These cells form a close network with foramina here & there, rather than a perfectly continnous membrane. They are further said to send processes inwards, which processes form su^ inter-cellular network between the salivary cells; but whether the inter-cellular network allude^ to is a sustentacular network of cell-processes (Boll), or a plexus of nerve-fibres (Pfliiger), or plexus of salivary capillaries (Saviotti), is still uncertain. Salivary Cells. These are of two kinds, (1) the Itntng cells of the ahedlit & (2) the dee^ or half-tnoon-cells^ (1) Lining Cells of the Alveoli - These are large ovoid cells, more or less flattened where they press one against another, which line, or rather almost fill up, the secreting follicles. Th^ consist of a mass of granular photoplasm enclosing a nucleus, the position of which nucleus is a point of considerable interest. This position varies : - The nucleus is sometimes pushed oi wards towards the basement membrane, sometimes drawn inwards towards the lumen. Kespecting this varying position of the nucleus, physiologists are divided into two cam some follow the views of Pfliiger, others those of Heidenhain. The former views are to the e£ that, during life, the nucleus always occupies the more central position, and that its occasio: displacement outwards after death is due, when it occurs, to the swelling up, through imbibitiofi of water, of the mucus said to be frequently found in the inner part of the cell: - When thro irritation of the chorda tympani, this mucus has been shed previous to death, the nucleus woi be found, after death, in its normal & more central position. The latter views are, on the contrary, to the effect that, as in case of the pancreas, alternating displacement of the nucleus occurs during life, in coincidence with the periods of act of secretion, which periods are marked by the appearance & disappearance of the half-m cells described below (Y. Appendix, page 40°). (2) Deep, or HALr-MooN Cells - These lie between the lining cells above described & basement membrane, by pressure against which they appear to be flattened out j and they are dark & granular. The divergence of views above alluded to with reference to the lining cells of the alveoli, coa- tinnes with respect to these half-moon cells. According to the followers of Pfliiger, they appear only after death, and are due to^ the same post.mortem changes which press outwards the nucleus of the lining cells: - The lining cells, becoming distended, through imbibition of the mucus they contain, press outwards the smaller peripheral cells, which contain no mucus, and flatten them against the basement membrane. According to the followers of Heidenhain, on the contrary, these cells appear & disappear alternately in coincidence with the several periods of the process of secretion. They appear during the intervals of the periods of excretion, and correspond in function to the outer or zymogen-forming portion of the secreting cells of the pancreas. They disappW during the periods of excretion: - The granular & protoplasmic material they contain then paflWfl into the lining cells. In support of this it is shown that these half-moon cells are granular & easfly stained with carmine, while the lining cells are neither granular nor easily stained, except pj; short time after the disappearance of the half-moon cells; then also is their nucleus pushed inwarflfl by the granular protoplasmic & easily staining material which distends their outer portions. Irritation of the chorda tympani brings about all the changes which characterise the period of excretion (V. Tablets on physiology, Appendix, page 36 & SS-^). 1