MUSCLES of the ABDOMEN. External ObliQUe - Outer surface & lower borders of the eight loiuer ribSj interdigita- i ting by four or five slips with serratus magnus & by three or four with I latissimus dorsi. j By fleshy fibres into anterior half of outer lip of crest of ilium, and its aponeurosis forms in succession : PouparCs ligainent; I Gimberftaf s ligament; Outer pillar of external abdominal ring; \ Inner pillar of external abdominal ring: Superficial part of linea alba by decussating with its fellow, and perhaps also after decussating the Triangular ligament & itttercolumnar fascia of opposite side. (Vide ab- dominal Aponeuroses) ^ Internal Oblique - Outer half of Poupart's ligament; anterior two-thirds of middle lip of crest of ilium; posterior layer of lumbar fascia. Lower border cartilages of four lower ribs; linea alba; crest of pubes & pectineal line behind Gimbernat's ligament to the extent of about \ an inch, forming part of the conjoined tendon. Transversalis - Outer third of Poupart's ligament; anterior three-fourths of inner: lip of crest of the mum; inner surface of cartilages of six lower ribs interdigita- ting with Diaphragm; by lumbar fascia from tips of spinous processes, tips | & bases of transverse processes of all the lumbar vertebras. Linea alba; crest of pubes & pectineal line behind Gimbernat's ligament to the extent of about \ an inch, forming part of the conjoined tendon. j Rectus Abdominis - By two heads from crest of pubes & ligamentous fibres covering symphysis. Cartilages of hth, Qth & 7th ribs & side of ensiform cartilage. This muscle is traversed by from 3 to 5 linecz transversce, irregular ten dinous intersections, which interrupt the superficial fibres and adhere firmly t( anterior wall of sheath; these are situated opposite umbilicus, between umbilicui & ensiform cartilage, and, frequently, one or two less complete ones, nearo i below umbilicus. Fyramidalis - Front of pubes & anterior pubic ligament. Linea alba midway between pubes & umbilicus. - Is often absent on oni or both sides. Cremaster - From middle of Poupart's ligament internally to lowest fibres of interna oblique & transversalis, and by a small pointed tendon from front of pubes sheath of rectus, forming large external, and smaller & less constant interna i bundles. Is the everted gubernaculum testis with a few additional fibres of th internal oblique, and sometimes of the transversalis, drawn or pushed down b" ; the testicle during its descent (Curling). i Quadratus Lumborum. I Anterior Portion - Upper border of transverse processes of the two or three lowe ij lumbar vertebrae. Inner half of lower border of last rib. Posterior Portion - Ilio-lumbar ligament, and for about 2 or 3 inches from postei rior part of inner lip of crest of ilium. Apices of transverse processes of the 4 upper lumbar vertebrae, and inne' half of lower border of last rib, N.—These muscles are supplied by the lower intercostal, ilio-hypogastric, <f i ilio-inguinal nerves. The quadratus lumborum also receive; i branches from the anterior divisions of the lumbar nerves. i