198 LYMPHATICS of the THORAX. PAKIETAL LYMPHATICS — Are superficial & deep. i Superficial - Pass from within outwards over the pectoralis major, in front, over i trapezius & latissimus dorsi, behind, and converge towards the axillary glan j The lymphatics from the mamma pass through a chain of small glands along lovl border of pectoralis major, which glands communicate superiorly with the axilla! Deep - Ave the intercostals, internal mammary & diaphragmatic vessels, with the c responding and the anterior & posterior mediastinal glands. ' The intercostal lymphatics accompany the intercostal vessels, receiving the ly phatics from the intercostal muscles & pleura, and from the spinal canal & muscles behind the spine, and, after passing through the intercostal glands, fcl open into the thoracic duct, ^he intercostal glands are small, variable in numl and situated, most of them, beneath the pleura near the costo-vertebral artici tions, some between the two planes of intercostal muscles. The internal ma^nmary lymphatics arise in the epigastric portion of the abdo i nal parieties. They accompany the superior epigastric vessels, ascend betw \ the anterior fibres of the diaphragm, and accompany the internal mammary veas:, communicating with the intercostal lymphatics and passing through the inter I mammary glands; they then opon, on the left side, into the thoracic duct, on ) right side into, the right lymphatic duct. The internal mavimary glands are sm variable in number, and situated at the anterior extremity of each intercostal sp ) by side of the internal mammary vessels. The diaphragmatic lymphatics follow the course of the phrenic vessels, and O] , some into the anterior mediastinal & internal mammary glands, some into 3 intercostal & posterior mediastinal glands. The anterior mediastinal glands lie, some of them upon the diaphragm in fi fc of the pericardium, others round the large vessels at the base of the heart; 1 f communicate with the internal mammary glands, and receive many of the 1 !• phatics of the diaphragm & of the convex surface of the liver. { The posterior mediastinal glands form a continuous chain by the side of the a a & oesophagus; they communicate with the intercostal, lumbar, & deep cer\ 1 glands, and receive the lymphatics from the oesophagus & surrounding structure VISCERAL LYMPHATICS - Belong to the Lungs & Bronchi - The lymphatics of the lung are superficial & deep. The for r arise in a minute plexus beneath the pleura ; the latter accompany the blood-vee 3 & bronchi. They all converge towards the bronchial glands. The bronchial gl ^ lie, the larger ones, round the bifurcation of the trachea & the bronchi, the sm; r ones, in the root of the lung, and round the larger bronchial tubes to some disti o within the substance of the organ. Their colour darkens as age advances, and : 7 are dark brown in the adult, black in the aged. Their efferent vessels trav e the tracheal, oesophageal & posterior mediastinal glands, and open into o thoracic duct on tho left side, into the right lymphatic duct on the right 5' Heart - The lymphatics of the heart arise, the superficial ones, beneath the pericard i, the deep ones beneath the endocardium. They converge towards two diffe t trunks. The trunk from the right side of the heart crosses the root of the ij ascends along the right side of the trachea and opens into the right lymphatic d } the trunk from the left side ascends along the pulmonary artery, and, after pas g through some of the mediastinal glands, opens into the thoracic duct. CTiSOphaguS - The lymphatics of the oesophagus traverse the posterior medias' il glands, communicate with those of the lung, and open into the thoracic < Thymus Gland - The lymphatics of the thymus gland arise from its posterior as *i and open separately into the internal jugular veins.