172 DEEP FEMOKAL ABTERY From outer & back part of femoral one or two inclies below Poupart'a ligament, and nearly equals superficial femoral in size. Passes: - Downwards & outwards in front of iliacus, on outer side of femoral artery; Downwards & inwards behind femoral vessels & profunda vein, and in front of pectineus: Backwards between pectineus & adductor longus ; Downwards behind adductor longus, in front of adductors brevis & magnus; - and ends in a small branch, which perforates lower part of adductor magnus to mus- cles of back of thigh, and anastomoses with inferior perforating & with branches of popliteal. BRANCHES: EXTERNAL CIRCUMFLEX — The larger. From outer side of artery close to its origin. ; Outwards between branches of anterior crural nerve and beneath sarto- i rius & rectus, and divides into branches: ■ Ascending - Beneath tensor vaginae femoris, and anastomose with gluteal & ] circumflex iliac, i Descending - Usually three or four & of considerable size. - Beneath rectus i muscle to vasti, principally the external. One large branch descends with nerve to vastus externus as low as knee, and anastomoses with > articular branches of popliteal. ; Transverse - Smaller. Wind round femur below trochanter major in substance i of vastus externus, and anastomose with internal circumflex, sciatic & superior perforating. INTERNAL CIRCUMFLEX — The smaller. From inner & back part close to origin. Backwards between pectineus & psoas, and winds round inner side of neck of femur to interval between quadratus femoris and adductor i magnus, and anastomoses with external circumflex, sciatic & supe- rior perforating. Gives ofi" branches: Ascending - To adductor muscles, gracilis & obturator externus; anastomoses w with obturator, j Descending - Between adductors brevis & magnus, which it supplies. \ Articular - Into acetabulum through notch beneath transverse ligament; ' supplies adipose tissue, and sends twigs along round ligament to head ! of femnr. PERFORATING — Usually three & of good size. - Arise behind adductor longus, above, in front of, and below, adductor brevis, and pass to back of thigh, the SUPERIOR, — Perforating the adductor magnus above the brevis ( some- perforating adductor brevis also); MIDDLE, — Perforating both these adductors; INFERIOR, — Perforating the adductor magnus below the brevis; and supply hamstring muscles & anastomose with each other, sciatic, internal circmflex & termination of profunda, the middle one, the largest, giving ofi" ascending & descending branches, and nutrient artery of femur. !