330 THE THYROID GLAND. ! Soft, brownish, very vascular, weighs from one or two ounces; is normally a little larger in females than in mal Lies in front & at sides of upper part of trachea & oesophagus, and of lower part of larynx & pharynx; lateral; it also covers the common carotid & inferior thyroid arteries, the internal jugular vein, the pneua I gastric, sympathetic, & recurrent laryngeal nerves. It is covered by the sterno-hyoid & -thyroid, and om \ byoid muscles, and, laterally, by the sterno-mastoid. [ted a muscle, the levator glandulce thyroidt \ It presents two lateral lobes & an isthmus^ and sometimes a thh'd lobe or pyra?nid; and with it is sometimes connc '•■ Lateral Lobes-Somewhat conical, broad below, narrow above j about two inches long, & thrj quarters of an inch wide, the right lobe being a little longer than the left one; passupwar & backwards from opposite fifth or sixth ring of trachea to inferior cornu & adjoining pa' of ala of thyroid cartilage, to which they are connected by loose areolar tissue. I Isthmus - Joins the lateral lobes in their lower third, and usually covers the third & four rings of the trachea; it varies, however, a good deal as regards position. Third Lobe, or Pyramid - A conical mass of gland-tissue (sometimes of fibrous tissue only which, when it exists, passes up, usually from left lobe, or from left part of upper bord of isthmus, as far as the hyoid bone, to which it is attached by loose fibrous tissue. ; Levator GlandulSB Thyroidese - Consists of a few muscular fibres usually derived frc! the thyro-hyoid, which, when they exist, pass up to the hyoid bone either from the pyramic STRUCTURE [process or from the isthmi Presents a thin fibrous capsule, surrounding a multitude of closed vesicles grouped togeth i by areolar tissue and more or less flattened by mutual pressure. These vesicles vary in si from of an inch to the size of a millet seed; they consist of a basement membrane, yellow glairy contents coagulable by heat & by alcohol, and of a few nucleated cells, whic in the foetus & young child, are arranged in a continuous layer on the inner surface of 11 basement membrane, but, in the adult, are usually found floating about in the fluid. Vessels & Nerves - Arteries, irova sup. & inf. thyroid, and from thyroidea ima Neubauer, when it exists; remarkable for their large size & numerous anastomoses j it minatein a capillary plexus around the vesicles.' F^-w^, openinto sup., middle, & inf. thyroid vj Lymphatics, originate in connective tissue between the vesicles & beneath the capsule; for numerous large anastomosing trunks, and end in deep lymphatics of neck. Nervesi Ava middle & inf. cervical ganglia of the sympathetic; accompany the arteries, and present here i [thereafewganglion-cells; theirmodeofterminationisnotknoi™ THE THYMUS GLAND. i Soft, pinkish-gray, lobulated body, lying in upper part of anterior mediastinum & lower part of front of nec ^ Attains its full size towards end of second year, when it weighs about half an ounce, and measures tv inches in length, one and a half in breadth, and three or four lines in thickness. It subsequently^dwindl away, and has all but disappeared at puberty.'- Consists of two lateral lobes placed side by side and fori j ing together a pyramidal-shaped mass, broad below, narrow above. Sometimes there isathird lobebetwet Apex - Frequently reaches up as high as lower border of thyroid gland, [the two others. Presents; | Base - Rests on upper part of pericardium. Anterior Surface - Convex, covered by upper piece & upper part of middle piece of sternui. & by sterno-hyoid & -thyroid ms.; crossed laterally in thorax by internal mammary vessel : Posterior Surface - Concave, rests upon pericardium, arch of aorta, left inaominate vein, & lar{ I STRUCTURE [arteries of root of neck, and, in the neck, upon the traohe :| The organ is surrounded by a fibrous capsule, and divided by trabeculae into lobnLjj primary & secondary. These lobules are now shown to consist of numerous small masses •[[ lymphoid tissue similar in every respect to those which form the lenticular glands of tli| intestine, the Malpighian corpuscles of the spleen, etc., i,e., of masses of delicate retifor! tissue, whose meshes are closely packed with lymph-corpuscles, and pervaded with^fcaplij laries. And it may be added that the error long entertained in respect of all such structure!! to the effect that they consist of a capsule filled with semifluid contents, is due partly to j slight condensation of the retiform tissue towards the periphery of the lymphoid masses, ar , partly to the circumstance that the more delicate internal meshes easily break down a sho; | time after death. The appearance of a great central cavity, the so-called reservoir of tl;! thymus," ramifying in all the lobes & lobules, is also deceptive. And so also, most likel | is the embryonic appearance, described by Mr. Simon, of a primitively linear tube froi which ramifying diverticula branch out: the tube so described is probably a collection (i multiplying cells enclosed within proliferating trabeculse & a thickening capsule. j Vessels & Nerves: - Arteries from the int. mammary, inf. & sup. thyroid, subola^ij ian, & carotid; said to penetrate directly, in some animals, into the centre of the lobules, an l there to form a plexus, from which branches would radiate towards the periphery. Tk \ arrangement would explain the appearance of a vascular membrane lining the so-calle! i reservoir & its prolongations. In most animals, however, the arteries ramify mainly, as :, I . the case with the lenticular glands of the intestine, on the surface of the lobules, whenc smaller twigs converge towards the centre. Veins, open mainly into the left innominat V Lytnphatics, originate around, and partly enclose, the masses of lymphoid tissue, formin [ an^ intralobular plexus. This plexus is succeeded by an interlobular plexus,^ the larg( i branches of which openinto the anterior mediastinal glands. Nerves: little is known aboi them, except that sympathetic fibres run along the arteries which supply the gland. A