15 376^ Inner Molecular Layer. Is a comparatively thick stratum of granular looking substance, respecting the nature of wMcb, we quote from Max Schultze's masterly article on the Betina in Strieker's Handbook of Histology. " The peculiar appearance of the inner molecular layer is clue to the admixture of a very fine plexus of spongy connective tissue, given off from the radial supporting fibres (fibres of ■ Miiller), with immeasurably minute nerve-fibrils. The latter form an essential constituent of this layer. They may be isolated for short distances, when they appear as extremely delicate & very tortuous fibres beset with fusiform varicosities. The thicker and branched ganglion- cell processes, which dip into this layer, can be &till more distinctly followed, though little is known in respect of their mode of termination. It is doubtful whethei", besides the nerve-fibres & the plexuses of the connective substance, a certain number of minute gramiles of unknown nature are not also present, as appears to be the case; or whether the nerve-fibres and the spongy connective substance give rise by their peculiar dispositioa to the finely granular appearance. In regard to the coarse and ultimate destiny of the processes of the ganglion cells and fine nerve-fibres of this layer, we must admit the impossibility of giving any positive statement: The internal molecular layer interrupts our knowledge of the course of the nerve- fibres, which again become visible in the outer layers of the retina." N.B. - It is but right to state that Schwalbe is of opinion that the Miillerian fibres, not only traverse the inner molecular layer without giving o2 any offsets to it, but are of a quite different chemical composition. Inner Nuclear Layer. Is composed of several strata of transparent nucleus-like bodies known as "inner granules." These are of three different kinds. The more numerous ones are regarded as bipolar nerve-cells with a large nucleus & but a relatively small amount of protoplasto, - the latter being collected mainly at the inner and outer ends of the cell, and prolonged into two delicate processes, an inner one & an outer one. The inner processes are the finer and usually the longer; they are unbranched, and they exhibit minute varicosities similar to those observed on ultimate nerve-fibrils; they are clearly seen to dip down into the inner molecular layer; and it is more than likely that some of them become continuous with the outer branched processes of the nerve-cells, while others are probably continued into some of the fibres of the optic nerve. The outer processes are thicker, branched, non-varicose, and usually shorter. They dip into the outer molecular layer, and break up into branches usually two in number. These pass off nearly at right angles ; and "break up into a plexus of exquisitely fine fibrils. The two other kinds of «inner granules " are first a few nucleated bodies connected with the fibres of Miiller (V. fibres of Miiller); and then some large rounded cells accumulated, some in the inner, others in the outer strata of this layer, and either not prolonged into any process, or prolonged into one process only.