31 E OBBIT. Qnadrilateral pyramidal fossa looking forwards & outwards and formed by seven bones, tbe frontal, ethmoid, sphenoid ( which enter into formation of both orbits), supe- rior maxillary, malar, lachrymal & palate. Comm-anicates with cranium, and with nasal, temporal, zygomatic & spheno-maxillary fossae through optic foramen, nasal duct & spheno-maxillary fissure. Presents: HOOF — Formed by orbital plate of frontal & lesser wing of sphenoid. Is concave, and pre- sents the suture between the foregoing bones, and in front the Lachrymal fossa forlachrymal gland, and a Depression (fovea trochlearis ) for pulley of superior oblique. FLOOR — Formed by upper or orbital surface of superior maxillary and orbital processes of malar & palate bones. Presents the sutures between foregoing bones, the Infra-orbital groove for infra-orbital vessels & nerve, which becomes converted in front into Infra-orbital canal; and also at its anterior & inner part a Depression for inferior oblique muscle. INNSIl WALL — Formed from before backwards by nasal process of superior maxillary, lachrymal, os planum of ethmoid, body of sphenoid. Is antero-posterior in direction and parallel to its fellow, and presents the sutures between foregoing bones and the Lachrymal groove for lachrymal sac. Crest of lachrymal bone for tensor tarsi muscle. OUTER WALL — Formed in front by orbital process of malar bone, and behind by ante- rior or orbital surface of great wing of sphenoid. I s very oblique forwards & outwards being nearly at right angles with its fellow, and presents the suture between foregoing bones, and the Orifices of one or two malar canals. Small spine for lower head of external rectus. ANGLES: SUP. EXTERNAL - Presents: Articulation of frontal with malar bone & orbital plate of sphenoid. Sphenoidal fissure or foramen lacerum anterius for 3rd, 4th & 6th nerves and ophthalmic nerve & vein. SUP. INTERNAL - Presents Suture connecting frontal with lachrymal & os planum, in which suture are the Anterior ethmoidal canal for nasal nerve & anterior ethmoidal vessels, and the Posterior ethmoidal canal for posterior ethmoidal vessels. INF. EXTERNAL - Presents Spheno-maxillary fissure for infra-orbital vessels & nerve and ascending branches of Meckel's ganglion. INF. INTERNAL - Presents Articulation of superior maxillary & palate bones with lachrymal & os planum. CIRCUMFERENCE OR BASE — Quadrilateral, looks forwards & outwards. Is bounded by supra-orbital arch and external & internal angular processes of frontal, anterior border of orbital surface & nasal process of superior maxillary, and anterior border of malar bone. Presents Supra-orbital notch or foramen for supra-orbital vessels & nerve j and assists in forming i.achry?nal groove for lachrymal sac. APEX — Corresponds to optic foramen for optic nerve & ophthalmic artery.