155 |RTERIES of the BASE of the BRAIN. Are the anterior & middle cerebral branches of the internal carotid and the posterior cerebral of the basilar, which are joined together by the anterior & posterior communic ating. Anterior Cerebral - Anterior & smaller of the branches of bifurcation of internal carotid opposite inner extremity of fissure of Sylvius. Forwards & inwards towards longitudinal fissure, being connected with each other by Anterior Communicating, - A small branch about two lines in length. Bound genu and along upper surface of corpus callosum, and join with posterior cere- bral. Give off small branches to anterior perforated space and to inner & under surfaces of frontal lobe. Middle Cerebral-The larger of the two terminal branches of internal carotid. Forwards & outwards along fissure of Sylvius, giving twigs to anterior perforated space, and divides into branches to pia mater of frontal, parietal & temporo- sphenoidal lobes, and to central lobe or Island of Eeil. - Sometimes gives off anterior choroid. Posterior Communicating - "Very variable in size. From back part of internal carotid just before its bifurcation. ' Backwards parallel to its fellow, and inosculates with posterior cerebral. Posterior Cerebral - Two; terminal branches of basilar. Forwards and outwards for a short distance giving numerous branches to posterior perforated space, and join posterior communicating. Backwards & outwards on crura cerebri in front of 3rd nerve, and, curving slightly inwards, divide into numerous branches to inner, under, & outer surfaces of occipital lobe. CIRCLE OF WILLIS — is formed in front, laterally & behind respectively by: Anterior cerebral arteries joined by the anterior communicating^ Trunks of internal carotids & posterior coffimimicating, Posterior cerebral & basilar. Within the circle of Willis are comprised from before backwards the lamina cinerea, optic commissure, tuber cinereum with the infundibulum, corpora albicantia & posterior perforated space.