380 THE PERINEUM Consists of the structures whieli close outlet of pelvis anteriorly to line drawn from front part of one tuber ischii to that of the other. It is triangular in form, and is bounded laterally by rami of pubes & ischia and posteriorly by above men- tioned line. The width of its base (rather the smallest side of the triangle) is usually about 2| inches in the male adult, but it is sometimes considerably reduced ; the operation of lateral lithotomy is then greatly impeded. The part is convex in middle line & slightly depressed laterally, and presents the following layers: Skin - Thin, dark, freely movable, marked by a prominent median raphe, studded with thin crisp hairs, and provided with numerous sebaceous follicles. Superficial Fascia - Divided into two layers. Superficial Later - Thick, areolar, contains a large amount of fat, and is continuous with sub- cutaneous tissue of surrounding regions. Deep Layer - Thin & aponeurotic ; lies in close contact Avith the muscles. 071 either side it is attached to rami of pubes & ischia externally to crura penis ; Behind it is connected to central tendinous point of perinfcuni; and is prolonged beneath sphincter ani, becoming continuous behind transversus perina^i & in front of rectum with inferior layer of deep perinajal fascia ; In fy-ont it is unattached, & continuous with dartos ; SiiJ>erio; ly it gives off a median septum, which is rather deficient in front but pretty well marked behind. It binds down the superficial structures, and bounds inferiorly, and also, through its attach- ments, laterally & behind, a space, in which if urine be effused, this fluid will be directed forwards towards scrotum, perinasum, & lowrr loit : 1 ('rireri, and prevented from passing backwards towards anus, or outwards to vvards thighs. TLis layer is sometimes called the siepej-Jia..'perimealfascia. Superficial Genito-Urinary Muscles - Are the: Erector Penis - Covering the crus; Accelerator Urinji: or Ejaculator Seminis - reading out upon bulb of urethra; Transversus PEr.iN.Ei -Se- aratiu^ penniTcmu proi)cr f .)Ui Ischio-rectal region. These muscles bound a triangular area, wLid! is crossed superficifilly by the superficial perinseal vessels & nerve, behind which area ] asses transversely inwards the transverse perineal artery, ^nd through which area crai be seen deeply tlie superficial layer of the deep perinpcal fascia. In lateral lithotomy the knife is carried backwards & outwards through inner & back part of this area on left side. Inferior Layer of Deep Perinseal Fascia, or Triangular Ligament of Urethra - Vide below. Membranous Portion of Urethra, Ccmpressor Ureihrse, & Deep Transversus Perinsei, Pudic Vessels & N., Vessels & N. of Bulb, Cowper's Glands & their Ducts - Vide these parts. Superior Layer of Deep Perinseal Fascia - The deep pcrineeal fascia is a complex structure triangular in form, which supports the urethra, and closes anterior part of outlet of pelvis. On either side it is attached to rami of pubes & ischia internally to crura penis ; Beliiud it is connected to central tendinous point of perinteum, and is continuous both with thin fascia on under surface of levator ani, and, behind transversus perinjei, with deep layer of superficial fascia of perinaeum ; In front it is attached to pubic arch & sub-pubio ligament. It consists of two aponeurotic layers which are separated in the centre, but united laterally & behind ; of these two layers the ANTKRion, Inferior, or Superficial Layer-The thickest, is continued dowuAvards & forwards upon anterior part of membranous portion of urethra, and is lost upon the bulb. This layer is perforated by the nrethra about an inch below symphysis pubis, by do7'sal -vein of penis in front of urethra, & by pitdic vessels &^ nerve on either sitle of the vein ; it is the only layer that can properly be called the triangular ligament of the urethra, though the term is sometimes applied to both layers taken together. Posterior, Superior, or Deep layer - Thinner. Is contiimed upwards U backwards round posterior part of meml)ranous portion of urethra, and becomes continuous with pelvic fascia. Between these two layers are comprised the parts above mentioned, viz,, mejnhrnnons por- tion of icretJira with compressor n^-etlirce isr' deep transversus perinan iiucsch'S, pjidic vessels nerve with vessels nerve of bulb, Co'ivp>cr s glands &^ their ducts. Above these parts are found in centre of perinjcum the Prostate Gland & Neck of Bladder, - and laterally the Anterior Part of Levator Ani & of Pelvic Fascia - The latter fascia is continued posteriorly upon posterior part of levatur ani, upon rectum & between it & bladder, and belongs as much to ischio-rectal region as to the perinseal.