EXTERNAL AUDITORY CANAL ta an irregular narrowing canal 1;^ inches long, and directed;— forwards & inwards,—inwards, backwards & upwards,—inwards, forwards & downwards in the first & second quarters, and in the second half of its course respectively (Sappey, Soemmering). If, however, the pinna, and with it the outer or cartilaginous portion of the canal, he drawn upwards & backwards, the canal will he straightened to a great extent, and will then he seen to pass nearly directly forwards, inwards & slightly downwards. It is flattened from before backwards externally & from above downwards inter- nally, and is narrowest towards its middle. Its floor is longer than its roof, owing to the obliquity of the membrana tympani. Structure of the External Auditory Canal—The external auditory canal is formed of cartilage, fibrous tissue & bone lined by integument, and is divided into a cartilaginous & an osseous portion. Its integument is thin and closely adherent, and presents hair follicles & sebaceous glands near the orifice, and also numerous ceruminous glands in the dense subdermic tissue of the cartilaginous portion. Its vessels are derived from, or open into, the posterior auricular, temporal & internal maxillary; its nerves are chiefly derived from the auriculo-temporal. Cartilaginous Portion—Is about ^ an inch long. It is formed by the prolongation inwards of the portions of the cartilage of the pinna, which form the concha & the tragus, and is firmly attached to the margin of the external auditory meatus of the temporal bone. The cartilage is deficient at the upper & back part of the canal, where it is replaced by strong fibrous tissue. Osseous Portion—Is about f of an inch long. It is formed beloAv & in front by a curved plate of bone, Avhich results from the extension outwards of the tympanic plate or ring of the foetal bone. Its outer end is dilated, and presents a rough margin for the attachment of the cartilage of the pinna. The circumference of its inner end is marked, except at its upper part, by a narrow groove for the insertion of the membrana tympani.