THE OSSICLES of the TYMPANUM Are three in number, the malleus, the incus, and the stapes, / The malleus and the incus, taking a general view of their arrangement, are elongated from above downwards, and from without inwards, and are parallel to each other and to the membrana tympani, to the upper part of which they correspond. The malleus is situated in front of the incus, and adheres by its outer side to the membrana tympani, which it draws inwards. The stapes is placed horizontally at the lower extremity of the incus, and is at right angles, or nearly so, with the incus and also with the malleus. The three bones are jomed by two delicate articulations; they are moved by four muscles (counting the laxator tympani minor as a muscle), and are held in position by four ligaments. The Malleus presents a head which is attached to the roof of the tym- panum by its suspensory ligament, and which articulates with the incus :—• A Neclc, which gives attachment to the laxator tympani muscle (Gray, Quain). The manubrium inserted between the mucous and fibrous layers of the membrana tympani;— The processus gracilis, which extends forwards and outwards into the Qlaserian fissure and gives attachment to the laxator tympani muscle (Sappey, Gray). In the adult it is connected by bone to the sides of the fissure. Theprocessus brevis-projects outwards towards the upper part of the mem- brana tympani, and gives attachment to the laxator tympani minor. The Incus presents a bodi/, which articulates with the head of the malleus, and is attached to the roof of the tympanum by the suspensory ligament of the incus;— The long process, Avhich is nearly parallel to the handle of the malleu.^, and presents at its extremity a nodule of bone :— The Os orbiculare, which is separate in the foetus ;—• The short process attached by the posterior ligament of the incus to the posterior wall of the tympanum. The Stapes presents a head articulated with the long process of the incus:— A nech, into which the Stapedius muscle is inserted ;— Two Crura, which connect the neck with the base ;— The Base, connected by its annular ligament to the margin of the fenestra ovahs.