255 ANTERIOR DIVISIONS of the SPINAL NERVES-2ncl T. DOESAL NERVES (Intercostal) ~ Twelve on each side, connected to the corresponding ganglion of the sympathetic, each of them by one or two very short filaments, and not joined into a plexus. Ma,y be divided into two setsg « Six Upper or Thoracic InterCOStals - Along six upper intercostal spaces below vessels, lying first between the pleura & the external intercostals, then between the two intercostals, and finally between the pleura and the internal intercostals & triangularis sterni, crossing the internal mammary vessels. They give off branches : - Muscular - To corresponding intercostals & triangularis sterni; at the front of the the chest some cross the costal cartilages from one space to another. Lateral Cutaneous - Pierce intercostals & serratus magnus midway between vertebroe & sternum, and divide into : - Anterior Offset - Forwards to integament of side of chest & mamma, and to upper digitations of external oblique. Posterior Offset - Backwards to integument over latissimus dorsi & scapula. The posterior ofi'set of the lateral cutaneous branch of the 2nd intercostal nerve, is called the intercosto-humej-al nerve. It crosses the axilla, joins with lesser internal cutaneous nerve or nerve of Wrisberg & with internal cutaneous branch of musculo-spiral, and pierces deep fascia to integument of upper inner & back part of arm ; its size varies inversely with that of the nerve of Wrisberg. Tliere is frequently a second intercosto-humeral nerve derived from the 3rd intercostal. Anterior Cutaneous - The terminal prolongation of the trunk. Pierce internal inter- costals & pectoralis major by side of sternum, and turn outwards to integu- ment of mamma & front of chest. The second joins with the clavicular branches of the superficial cervical plexus. Six Lower or Thoraco-Abdominal Intercostals - Along five lower intercostal spaces, as foregoing, and behind costal cartilages (the last nerve runs along lower border of last rib in front of quadratus lumborum). Between internal oblique & transversalis to sheath of rectus, which they perforate. Give off branches ; Muscular - To corresponding intercostals, & abdominal muscles. Lateral Cutaneous - Pierce extei-nal intercostals & external oblique in a line with corresponding branches of foregoing, and similai'ly divide into: Anterior Offset - To integument of abdomen as far as rectus. Posterior Offset - To integument over lower part of latissimus dorsi. Anterior Cutaneous - Become cutaneous near linea alba, and turn outwards towards lateral cutaneous nerves; their number & exact position are somewhat variable. - A second set are desci-ibed by Gruveilhier & Hirschfeld as existing along the outer edge of the rectus. The First Dorsal Nerve - Has no latei*al cutaneous branch ; or rather the branch of the 1st dorsal nerve, which corresponds to the lateral cutaneous branches of the other dorsal nerves, is a large trunk which enters into the formation of the brachial plexus. The continuation of the nerve along the first intercostal space is small, and ends in the first anterior cutaneous nerve. The Last Dorsal Nerve - The largest. Occasionally connected with the first lumbar nerve by a slender branch, the dorsi-luinbar nei-ve^ which descends in the substance of the quadratus lumborum. Runs along lower border of last rib, as above stated, and communicates between the internal oblique & transversalis with hypogastric branch of the ilio-hypogastric. Its lateral cutaneous branch is large; it pierces internal and external oblique above crest of the iliam, and crosses the crest to supply integument of front part of gluteal region.