253 POSTERIOR DIVISIONS of the SPINAL NERVES. Smaller than the anterior, the two first excepted POSTERIOR DIVISION OP First Cervical Nerve (Suboccipital) - Larger than anterior. Enargea between occipital bone & posterior arch of atlas just behind vertebral artery, enters triangle form3d by small poster- ior cranio-vertebral muscles, supplies these muscles & complesus, and joins with posterior divisioa of 2nd cervical nerve. Sometimes gives off a small cutaneous branch, which branch when it exists, aocompanies occipital artery to integument of lower & back part of occiput, and I'oins with great & small occipital. Second Cervical Nerve - Three or four times as large as anterior division, and the largest of the posterior cervical nerves. Emerges between posterior arch of atlas & lamina of axis, sup'p'ies infer- ior oblique, and after joining with posterior division of Ist & 3rd cervical nerves, divides into : ExTEKNAL Branch - Similar to external branches of six lower posterior corvical nerves, bat soniewhafc larger, joins with corresponding branch of 3rd posterior corvical nerve, and supplies the sama muscles, & also the complexus. Internal Branch (Great Occipital Nerve) - Crosses triangle formed by posterior cranio-vertebral' muscles, pierces complexas & trapezius, joins with small occipital & with ascending twig from internal branch of posterior division of 3rd, and supplies integumeat of back of head as°far as vertex; gives off an auricular branch to bac'c of ear. Six Lower Cervical Nerves - Smaller than the anterior, and diminish in size from above down- wards. Pass backwards and divide into: - External Branches - Small; supply spleniu', cervicalis ascendens, transversalis colli & trachelo-mastoid. Internal Branches - T/iree lower. Small; pass inwards beneath semispinalis colli, which they supply, and are lost in the interspinales, mult.fidus spinee, & complexu?: twigs to the integu- ment near the spine are however described by Cruveilhier, Sippey, & Hirschfaldt. - The ^rd, 4th, cr* j^/z. Much larger, pass inwards between semispinalis & complexu-s, which they supply, pierce splenius & trapezius close to spine, and curve outwards to supply integu- ment over trapezias. - Internal branch of 3rd nerve gives off beneath trapezius a small twig, which ascends on inner side of great occipital nerve, and pierces trapezius to supply integu- ment of lower part of occiput; this twig is sometimes called the 3.*d occipital nerve. The name of "posterior cervical plexus" (Cruveilhier), is sometimes applied to the com- munications between the three first cervical nerves beneath the complexus. IDorsal Nerves - Smaller than the anterior, and all pretty nearly of the same size. Pass backwards be- tween transverse processes, and divide into: - External Branches - Six upper. Small; pass backwards & outwards to interval between longis- eimus dorsi, transversalis colli & trachelo-mastoid on the one hand and the ilio-costalis & its accessory muscles on the other, and supply these muscles & levatores costarum. - Six lower. Larger J supply foregoing muscles, pierce serratus posticus inferior & latissimus dorsi in a line with angles of ribs, and bending outwards supply integument of back. Internal Branches - Six upper. Large; pass inwards between semispinalis dorsi & multifidas spinsB, which tbey supply; pierce serratus posticus superior, rhomboidei & trapezius close to spine, and bead outwards to integument of back. - The six lower ones are smaller, and end in. foregoing muscles without giving off any cutaneous filaments. XiUmbar Nerves - Diminish in size from above downwards. Pass backwards between transversa processes and between erector & multifidus spinee, and divide into : External Branches - the largest. Supply erector spinse & intertransversales. The three first then pierce aponeurosis of latissimus dorsi, cross crest of the ilium, and supply integumeat of back part of gluteal region. The two last are lost in the muscles, an anastomotic filament joining however the 5th lumbar nerve to the 1st sacral. Internal Branches - Tass backwards in grooves on articular processes, and are lost in multifiius spinae. - A few small twigs to integument near spine are described by Sappey & Hirschfeldc Sacral Nerves - Small, and diminish in size from above downwards. The four upper issue from sacral canal through posterior sacral foramina, the last issues through termination of spinal canal. The three upper divide into: External Branches - The largest. Join in a first series of anastoriot'c loops on upper & back part of sacrum with last lumbar & 4th sacral, and pass outwards beneath gluteus maximug to posterior aspect of great sacro-sciatic ligament; here they join in a secoul series of loops and end in two or three cutaneous branches, which perforata lower & back part of gluteus _ maximu=!, and run outwards over its surface. Iktefnal Brs. - Small, and lost in multifidus spinae. The two last posterior sacral nerves are small, and do not divide into external & internal branches. They join with each other and with posterior division of coccygeal nerve, and are distributed to the fibrous structures on back of coccyx. Coccygeal Nerve - Very small. Separates from anterior division in sacral canal, from which it issues through its terminal aperture. Communicates with last posterior sacral nerve, and ends in fibrous stiuctures on back of coccyx. N.—^From the foregoing description it may be seen that the cutanoo .8 nerves of the back are derived from the m/^;7Z ?/branches of the 2nd, 3rd, 4:h, & 5ch cervical, and six upper dorsal, and from the external branches of the six lower dorsal, & three first lumbar.