274 NEBVES of the HEART Are derived from the cardiac plexuses, which plexuses are formed by the cardiac branch i of the sympathetic and of the pneumogastric & recurrent laryngeal, ; CARDIAC NERVES — Are the three cardiac nerves of the sympathetic, the cervicr cardiac & the thoracic-cardiac nerves of the pneumogastric, and the cardiac bra ches of the recurrent laryngeal. CARDIAC NERVES OP THE SYMPATHETIC - Are three in numb. superior or superficial^ middle or great, 6^ inferior, and arise normally from the C( responding cervical ganglia. The' superior cardiac nerve, however, frequeni, arises partly from the communicating cord below the superior ganglion, and t inferior one partly from the first dorsal ganglion; when the middle ganglion absent the middle cardiac nerve arises from the communicating cord betweii the superior & inferior ganglia. These nerves pass downwards & inwards to the base of the heart either singly or in C( nection with each other or with the other cardiac nerves, varying considerat in their relative size and in their precise relations to adjoining structur( when one of them is smaller than usual one of the others is increased in size. On the right side of the neck the superior cr* the middle cardiac ner' pass downwards behind the common carotid artery, the former passing also in fn of the inferior thyroid artery & recurrent laryngeal nerve. They then cross subclavian artery either in front or behind, and descend upon the trachea to i \ right side of the great or deep cardiac plexus. - On the left side the superior card \ nerve usually descends into the thorax between 6^ in front of th.Q left cotnmon can left subclavian arteries and crosses anteriorly the arch of the ao7-ta to the supe cial cardiac plexus ; sometimes however it lies deeper than usual and then pas behind the aorta to the deep cardiac plexus. - The left middle cardiac nerve pas into the thorax between 6^ behind the left common carotid left subclavian arte) and then descends behind the arch of the aorta to the left side of the deep cart,.^ plexus. The inferior cardiac nerve passes downwards & inwards to the deep card plexus behind the subclavian artery, and also, on the right side, behind the innomin i, CARDIAC NS. of the PNEUMOGASTRIC & RECURR. LARYNGEil Are divided into: '[ Cervical Cardiac - Are divided into: Upper Cervical Cardiac - Small branches which join the cardiac ner: of the sympathetic. Lower Cervical Cardiac -vOne large branch which, on the right side, Cii cends along the innominate artery and joins one of the cardiac nerj destined to the deep cardiac plexus, and, on the left side, crosses i arch of the aorta to the superficial cardiac plexus. Thoracic Cardiac - Arise on the right side both from the trunk of the pneui,' gastric & from its recurrent laryngeal branch, but on the left side from i' recurrent branch only. They all go to the deep cardiac plexus either sin or in connection with the other deep cardiac nerves.