197 .YMPHATICS of the HEAD & NECK. VESSELS — Are superficial & deep. Superficial Vessels Op the Cranium - Divided into • Frontal - Accompany frontal artery to inner can thus. Temporal - Accompany anterior & posterior divisions and trunk of temporal artery, pnss through parotid glands, and open into deep glands of neck. Posterior Aiiriadar - Accompany posterior auricular artery to glands near upper end of sterno-mastoid. Occipital - Accompany occipital artery & its branches to glandg at back of head. Op the Face - Converge from inner canthus, nose, eyelids, & lips, some of them passing through glands on surface of buccinator, and open into submaxillary glands beneath angle & body of jaw. Op the Neck - Cross sterno-mastoid towards glands along its posterior border; some pass beneath the muscle and open into deep glands of neck. Deep Vessels Of the Cranium - Divided into: Meningeal - Accompany meningeal vessels through foramina at base of skull, and open into deep cervical glands. Cerebral - Lie between arachnoid & pia mater, and in choroid plexuses of lateral & 3rd ventricles; accompany carotid & vertebral arteries through foramina in base of skull, and open into deep glands of neck. Of the Face - The lymphatics of the muscles of the face, and those of the mucous membrane of the mouth, nose, & pharynx, and of the cavity of the eyeball, converge towards the parotid, submaxillary, & deep cervical glands. Of the Neck - All converge towards the chain of glands which accompany the caro- tid vessels. - At the lower part of the neck, after receiving the superficial lymphatics, & some of the lymphatics from the thorax, they unite into a single trunkj which opens on the left side into the thoracic duct, on the right side into the right lymphatic duct. GLANDS —Are superficial & deep. Superficial Glands - Are the occipital & posterior auricular, which lie at the back of the liead & behind the ear, and receive the occipital & posterior auricular lym- phatics; the superjicialparotid, •which, receive part of the temporal vessels; the buccal, which lie on the surface of the buccinator in the course of the facial lymphatics; the subjnaxillary, which lie beneath the angle & the body of the jaw and receive all the superficial & many of the deep lymphatics of the face, and some of the efferent lymphatics from the posterior auricular glands; and finally the superficial cei^vical, which lie in the course of the external jugular vein & along lower part of posterior border of sterno-mastoid, where they communicate with the axillary glands ; they receive the superficial lympha- tics of the neck & most of the efferent vessels of the occipital & posterior auricular gland?. Deep Glands - Are the deepglands, which lie in the substance of the parotid, and the chain of deep cervical g^andSj which accompany the carotid vessels.