143 JRANCHES of the SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY-lst T. Vertebral - Vide "Arteries of the head & Neck." Internal Mammary - From under surface of subclavian, opposite thyroid axis. Downwards behind phrenic nerve and internal jugfular & subclavian veins to pos- terior aspect of costal cartilag-es a short distance from sternum. Descends between thoracic wall & pleura, giving off branches: - Perforating^ Anterior Intercostal^ Anterior Mediastinal, Conies Nervi Phrcnici^ and divides between 6th & 7th costal cartilages & beneath triangularis sterni into branches Musculo-phreniCi ^ Superior Epigastric. Its two venae comites unite into one trunk before they open into the innominate. Perforating - Five or six. Forwards through intercostal spaces, and then outwards to pectoralis major, integument, & mamma. Ant. Intercostal - Five or six. Outwards in five or six upper intercostal spaces between internal intercostal muscles & pleura, and divide between internal & ex- ternal intercostal muscles into superior & inferior branches which inoscu- late with corresponding branches of corresponding aortic intercostala, and are similarly distributed. Anterior Mediastinal - Small, irregular ; to pericardium, remains of thymus gland & cellular tissue of anterior mediastinum. Comes Nervi Phrenici (Superior Phrenic) - From upper part of artery. Long, slender; with phrenic nerve to diaphragm, and anastomose with musculo-phrenic, & inferior phrenic from abdominal aorta. Musculo-Phrenic - Downwards & outwards behind cartilages of false ribs, supplying diaphragm, which it perforates opposite 8th or 9th rib, & abdominal muscles, and giving off a small anterior intercostal branch to each of the lower intercostal spaces. Superior Epigastric - Enters sheath of rectus posteriorly, and anastomoses with epi- gastric branch of external iliac, lower intercostals & lumbar; gives twigs to rectus & to integument of middle line of abdomen. Thyroid Axis - Vide next Tablet.] Superior Intercostal - From upper & back part of 1st portion of subclavian on left side, of 2nd portion on right side. Passes backwards for a short distance, and gives off its deep cervical branch ; it then descends in front of neck of 1st rib, or in front of necks of 1st & 2nd ribs on outer side of 1st dorsal gang- lion of sympathetic, gives off one or two branches similar to the aortic intercostals, and joins with the first of the latter arteries. Deep Cervical or Profunda Cervicis - Sometimes arises directly from subclavian. Backwards between neck of 1st rib & transverse process of 7th cervical vertebra, and ascends between complexns & semispinalis colli, anasto- mosing with vertebral artery & deep branch of arteria princeps cervicis.