328 THE LUNGS. i Light, porous, crepitant, elastic. j Of a pinkish white at birth, of a mottled slate colour in the adult; the mottling bi coming darker & darker as age advances. Smooth & shining, marked out by dar lines into polygonal spaces corresponding to the bases of the superficial lobule -which spaces are variously crossed by other more delicate line Conical in shape, and present : - ' Outer Surface - Convex, deepest behind. Presents on either side a deep fissure obliqi downwards & forwards from near apex to base, and, on tbe right side, anothd fissure oblique upwards & forwards from the middle of the foregoing. By thei. fissures the left lung is divided into two lobes, the right one iato three; the inferi( lobe is the largest in both lungs, and the middle lobe of the right side, the smalle of al' Inner Surface - Concave, deeply excavated in front, especially on the left side, to mat room for the heart; presents tbe hilum a little above & behind its middl Anterior Border - Thin, oblique, shorter than the posterior, deeply notched inferior! on the left side so as to expose the pericardium; comes in contact with its fello behind middle of sternum, the pleurae alone being interposei Posterior Border - Thick, rounded, vertical, longer than the anterior. : SsiSe - Broad, concave, oblique downwards & backwards; rests upon diaphragm, and i' I circumference fits into the groove between the diaphragm & the ribs. Descenc. lower down on the left side than on the righ Apex - Passes up into root of neck an inch or an inch & a half above first rib, and, undt 1 cover of the scaleni, comes into close contact with first & second portions of sn! | clavian arter ; The Right Lung is the shortest in consequence of the diaphragm ascendin higher on the right side than on the left; the broadest owing to the inclinatic | of the heart to the left j and somewhat the largest. - The Left Lung is the longei \\ narrowest, and somewhat the smalk ! THE ROOT of the LUNG i Consists of the bronchus, pulmonary & bronchial Vessels, lymphatic vessel! k glands, and pulmonary plexuses of the pneumogastrio & sympathetit which parts are all enclosed in a pleural sheath, and are bound togethe by areolar tissue in the following order; F£OM Before Backwards On Either Side'. - !j Pulmonary veins with the anterior pulmonary plexus ; I Pulmonary artery ; i Bronchus with the bronchial vessels^ lymphatics vessels glands^ ait : the posterior pulmonary plexu\\ Feom Below Upwards .| On Right Side - Pulmonary veins^ pulmonary artery, bronchus, with &< : On Left Side - Pulmonary veins, bronchus, pulmonary artery. THE EOOT of the RIGHT LUNG — Lies behind the superior vena cava & tb j right auricle; the vena azygos major arches over it froi'i behincj THE ROOT OF THE Ll^FT LUNG — Passes beneath the arch of the aorta; beliinil| it are the descending portion of the arch, the oesophagus < ■ the thoracic duct. - The root of each lung has also in fron i of it the phrenic nerve, and behind it, the pneumogastric i I