63 «[USCLES ATTACHED to BONES of THORAX. The muscles attached to the STSHNUM — Are seven in number, and are attached as followa Pectoralis Major - Corresponding half of anterior surface. Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid or Sterno-Mastoid {Sternal Portion) - Upper & outer part of front of first piece. Sterno-Hyoid or Sterno-Cleido-Hyoid - Upper & back part of first piece. SternO'Thyroid - Back of first piece below & internally to sterno-hyoid. Triangularis Sterni — Lower & lateral parts of posterior surface. Rectus Abdominis - Side of ensiform appendix. Diaphragm {Narrow Central Slip) - Posterior aspect of ensiform appendix. FIRST RIB — Are seven in number, and are attached as follows: - Scalenus Anticus - Tubercle on inner border & tipper surface. Scalenus Medius - Upper surface behind groove for subclavian artery. First Levator Costarum or Supracostalis - Posterior part of upper surface. First Digitation of Serratus Magnus - Middle of upper surface & outer border. First External Intercostal - Outer border. First Internal Intercostal - Outer border & under surface. Musculus Accessorius adIliO'Costalem, or ad Sacro-Lumbalem - Angle, SECOND RIB — Are nine in number, and are attached as follows : - Second dr* Third Digitations of Serratus Magnus - Middle of upper or outer surface. Scalenus Posticus - Back of outer surface. Serratus Posticus Superior - Upper border externally to angle. Second Levator Costarum or Supracostalis - Upper border between tubercle & anglti. Musculus Accessorius ad Ilio- Costaletn, or ad Sacro-Lumbalem - Angle. First Internal dr^ First External Intercostals - Upper border. Second External Intercostal - Lower border. Second Internal Intercostal - Inner lip of groove & inner surface. RIBS in GENERAL — Are sixteen in number, and are attached as follows: - Levatores Costarum or Supracostales - Upper border of all between tubercle & angle. External Intercostals - Lower border of eleven upper, upper border of eleven lower. Internal Intercostals - Upper border of eleven lower, inner lip of groove on inner surface of eleven upper, Serratus Magnus - Outer surface & upper border of eight upper. Pectoralis Minor - Outer surface & upper border of the 3rd, 4th, & 5th near anterior ex- tremity Serratus Posticus Superior - Upper border of 2nd, 3rd, 4th, & 5th externally to angle. Cervicalis Ascendens - Angles of the four or five upper. Subcostales or Infracostales - Inner surface of one rib to inner surface of 1st, 2nd, or 3rd rib above. Vary in size & number, and are most numerous between the lower ribs, and in the neighbourhood of their angles, Longissimus Dorsi {Outer Series of Insertions) - Lower border of nine or ten lower internally to angles. External Oblique - Outer surface & lower borders of eight lower. Diaphragm - Inner surface of six or seven lower, iuterdigitating with transversalis, Ilio-costalis, or Sacro-Lumbalis - Angles of the six or seven lower. Musculus Accessorius ad IliO'Costalemi or ad Sacro-Lumbalem - Angles of the six lower inteif- nally to tendons of ilio-costalis, angles of the six upper, Serratus Posticzcs Inferior - Lower border of four lower externally to angle. Latissimus Dorsi - Outer surface of the three or four lower. Quadratus Lumborum - Inner half of lower border of last. COSTAL CARTILAGES — Are eight in number, and are attached as follows: - Pectoralis Major - Cartilages of all the true ribs except the 1st or the 7th, or both, Transversalis - Inner surface of six lower iuterdigitating with Diaphragm, Intei-nal Oblique - Lower border of four lower. Triangularis Sterni - Upper border of 5th, 6ch & 7th, inner surface & lower border of 2nd, 3rd, 4th, & 5th. Rectus Abdominis - Lower border of 5fch, 6th «& 7th close to ensiform appendix. Subclavius - First in front of rhomboid ligament. External Intercostals of Five Lower Spaces - Lower border of cartilage above, upper border of cartilage below. Internal Intercostals - Upper border of eleven lower, inner surface of eleven upper.