68 MUSCLES ATTACHED to BONES of UPPER LIMB—3rd T The muscles attached to the RADIUS — Are nine in number, and are attached as foUowa j - Biceps - Back part of bicipital tuberosity. Supinator Brevis - Inner, anterior & outer aspects of the bone above bicipital tuberosit & oblique line as low down as insertion of pronator radii terei Flexor Stihlimis Digitorum ( Outer Head) - Oblique line. Pronator Radii Teres - Rough impression on middle of outer surface of shaft. Flexor Longus Pollicis - Upper two-thirds of anterior surface of shaft. Pronator Quadratus - Lower fourth of anterior surface & outer border. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis - Middle third of posterior surface of shaft. Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis - Posterior surface of shaft below foregoing. i Supinator Longus - Outer side of base of styloid process. I ULNA — Are thirteen in number, and are attached as follows: - Supinator Brevis - Triangular depression below lesser sigmoid cavity & ridge behind t depressi( Brachialis Anticus - Under surface of coronoid process. Flexor Subliniis Digitorum (Middle Head) - Tubercle on inner surface of coronoid proof above pronator radii ter Pronator Radii Teres (Outer Head) - Ridge on inner surface of coronoid process bel flexor subliin Flexor Profundus Digitorum - Depression on inner surface of coronoid process, upper tT*;! thirds of anterior & inner surfaces, and, by an aponeurosis which is comm to it & to flexor carpi ulnaris, upper two-thirds of posterior bord Flexor Carpi^ Ulnaris (Posterior Head) - Inner border of oleoranoD, and by an aponeurc which is common to it & to flexor profundus, upper two-thirds of posterior bord Triceps -Back part of upper surface of olecranon. Anconeus - Rough triangular surface on outer side of olecranon & upper third of shaft. Pronator Quadratus - Lower fourth of anterior surface & inner border. Extensor Carpi Ulnaris - Middle third of posterior border. Usually it simply covf J but sometimes it arises from, narrow portion of posterior surface internal to 5 j vertical ric Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis - Outer half of posterior surface below insertion of ancom Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis - Middle of outer half of posterior surface. Extensor Indicis - Posterior surface below foregoing.