THE LARYNX —1st Tablet. INTERIOR of the LARYNX. Is divided in two by the glottis or ntna glottidis. GLOTTIS or RIMA GLOTTIDIS — Antero-posterior opening comprised bfl tween the inferior or true vocal cords in its anterior three-fourths, and betweei the arytasnoid cartilages in its posterior fourth. In tranquil breathing it is triangular with base backwards. It is lozeng^i shaped when fully dilated, as in violent inspirations. It is reduced to a narror slit when sound is emitted; the vocal cords then lying parallel to each othei and their degree of approximation & tension increasing with the height of tt sound produced. In the adult male it is nearly an inch long, and may be dilated to nearli half an inch. In the female, and in the male before puberty, its dimensions ar about one-third lesi Inferior or True Vocal Cords - Extend from near middle of receding angli of thyroid cartilage below the false vocal cords to anterior or interiiE; angle of the base of the arytsenoid cartilages. They consist of a stroni band of yellow elastic fibrous tissue, the inferior thyro-arytcenoid ligamm\ which band is continuous inferiorly with the lateral portion of the cricc; thyroid membrane, is covered internally by a very thin «& adherent layei of mucous membrane, and is strengthened externally by the thyrc| arytaenoid musclij PART ABOVE the GLOTTIS — is broad & triangular, & presents for exami nation! i Superior Aperture of the Larynx - Triangular, obliquely inclined downwarc & backwards, and bounded in front by the epiglottis, & laterally by tl arytseno-epiglottidean fold; Superior or False Vocal Cords - Extend from near middle of receding angleti thyroid cartilage above the true vocal cords to the anterior surface of thi arytasnoid cartilages; they consist of a fold of mucous membrane cor|' taining a thin band of yellow elastic fibrous tissue, the superior thyr\ arytcBiioid ligament, from which a delicate expansion extends over th'| sacculus laryngis. They bound superiorly the openings of till Ventricle of the L arynx - Deep oblong saccular depression comprised betweej! the superior & inferior vocal cords, and corresponding externally to tljj tbyro-arytEenoid muscle. It is continued superiorly & in front by ana i row opening into tl j Sacculus Laryngis or Laryngeal Pouch - A prolongation of the foregoin i which passes upwards & forwards between the superior vocal cord J the thyioid cartilage, and is covered externally by the thyr , epiglottideus & by the thin upper fasciculus of the thyro-arytaenoi i and internally by the arytaeno.epiglottideus inferior or compress I eacculi laryngis. The mucous lining of the pouch is supported by £;: expansion from the superior vocal cord, and presents the openings ;| from 60 to 70 mucous glands, whose secretion lubricates the inferi i; vocal corc', PART BELOW the GLOTTIS — is flattened from side to side above, circul j below, continuous inferiorly with canal of trache j