114 MUSCLES of PALM of HAND. MUSCLES of the THENAR EMINENCE or MS. of the THUMB Abductor Pollicis or Trapezoyphalangeal - Ridge on anterior surface of trapc zium & anterior annular ligament of wrist. Outer side of base of first phalanx of thumb. S. by median nerve. Opponens Pollicis or Trapezo-metacarpal - Front of trapezium below the ndgi & annular ligament. Whole length of outer border of metacarpal Tpone of thumb. - S. by median i Flexor Brevis Pollicis or Trapezocarpo-phalangeal. Outer or Superficial Head - Lower part of trapezium & anterior annular ligatnen Inner or Deep Head - Trapezoides, os magnum, base of 2nd & 3rd metacarpal bone : Either side of base of first phalanx of thumb, a sesamoid bone being devt loped in each tendon. - S. by median nerve, & deep branch of ulnar. Adductor Pollicis or Metacarpo-phalangeal - Lower two-thirds of anterior su face of 3rd metacarpal bone. Inner side of base of first phalanx of thumb. - S. by deep branch of ulnar: MS. of HYPO-THENAR EMINENCE or MS. of LITTLE FINGEI FallXiaris Brevis - Annular ligament & inner edge of central palmar fascia. Skin over inner border of hand. - S. by superficial branch of ulnar nerv Abductor Minimi Digiti, or Pisi-phalangeal - Pisiform bone, and slightly fro tendon of flexor carpi ulnaris. Inner side of base of first phalanx of little finger. - S. by deep branch ulnar nerve. Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, or Unci-phalangeal - Unciform process unciform bone & annular ligament. Inner side of base of first phalanx of little finger. - S. by deep branch ulnar nerve. Opponens or Adductor Minimi Digiti, or Unci-metacarpal* - Uncifor process of unciform bone & annular ligament. Whole length of inner border of metacarpal bone of little finger. -S. 1 deep branch of ulnar nerve. *These names, expressive of the origin & insertion of the corre ponding muscles, are due to Cruveilhi( MUSCLES of tho CENTRAL PALMAR REGION. Lumbricales - First, and sometimes Second, from outer side of corresponding de flexor tendon. - Third and Fourth, from adjoining sides of 2nd & 3rd and S &: 4th deep flexor tendons respectively. Outer side of expansion of corresponding extensor tendon on back first phalanges. - S., the two outer by median nerve j the two inner by de , branch of ulnar nerve. Palmar Interossei - Three. - They arise from the whole length of one side of the meii carpal Ijone of one finger, and are inserted into the same side of the base oft' first phalanx of the same finger & into the expansion of the extensor tend which covers it. - They are situated respectively on the inner side of the 2 metacarpal bone & index finger, and on the outer side of the 4th & 5th me carpal bones and corresponding ring & little fingers. They adduct these fingi towards an imaginary line drawn through the long or middle finger. - Tt are supplied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve. Dorsal Interossei - Four - They arise by two heads from the adjacent sides oft metacarpal bones, but more extensively from the side of that metacarpal bo which corresponds to the finger into which the muscle is inserted. They i inserted into the corresponding side of the base of the first phalanx of the c responding finger & into the expansion of the corresponding extensor tendoi They are situated respectively on the outer side of the 2nd metacarpal bom index finger, on both sides of the 3rd metacarpal bone & middle finger, on inner side of the 4th metacarpal bone & ring finger. The 1st dorsal interosse muscle is larger than the others, and is sometimes called the abductor indi( the radial artery passes between its two heads. - They abduct the fingers ft an imaginary line drawn through the long or middle finger. - They are suppl by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve.