IIUSOLES ATTACHED to SPINE-2nd Tablet. The muscles attached to the DORSAL VERTEBRiE — Are twenty.five in nnmber, and are attached as follows: - Trapezius - Spinous processes of all. Latisshmis Dorsi - Spinous processes of the six or seven lower. R/iojnboideus Major - Spinous processes of the four or five upper. Splenitis - Spinous processes of the six upper. Serratus Posticus Superior - Spinous processes of the two or three upper. Serratus Posticus Inferior - Spinous processes of the two last. LongissijHus Dorsi - Tips of transverse processes of all. Transversalis Colli - Tips of transverse processes of the four or five upper. Trachelo-Mastoid - Transverse processes of the five upper. Spinalis Dorsi - Spinous processes of from four to eight of the middle & upper. Muliifidus SpincB - Tips of transverse & spinous processes of all. Semispinales Dorsi - Transverse prs. from the 10th to the 5th, spinous prg. of the four upper. Semispinales Colli - Transverse processes of the four upper. Rotatores Spince - Upper & back part of transverse prs. of the eleven lower, lower margin & posterior surface of laminae and roots of spinous prs. of the eleven upper. Complexus - Transverse processes of the four or five uppar. Biventer Cervicis - Transverse processes of the two, three, or four upper. Spinalis Colli - Spinous processes of the one or two upper. Levatores Costarum or Supracostales - Tips of transverse processes of the eleven upper. Interspinals - Sometimes to two or three of the upper and lower spinous processes. Intertransversales - Upper & lower borders of a few of the lower transverse processes. Psoas Magmis - Side of body of last. Psoas Parvus - Side of body of last. Longus Colli {Inferior Obliqued Vertical Portions)-Front bodies of the two or three upper. LUMBAR VERTEBRA —Are fourteen in number, and are attached as follows: - The Diaphragm - {Right Crus) - Front of bodies of 1st, 2nd, & 3rd, or sometimes of 2nd, 3rd & 4th. {left Crus) - Left side of bodies of 1st & 2nd, or sometimes of 2nd & 3rd. Psoas Magnus - Sides of bodies and bases of transverse processes of all. Psoas Pa7'vus - Side of body of first. Internal Oblique - Tips of spinous processes of all (by posterior layer of lumbar fascia). Transversalis - Tips of spinous processes, tips & bases of transverse processes of all (by lumbar fascia). Quadratus Lumbortttn {Anterior Portion) - Upper border of transverse processes of the two or three lower. {Posterior Portion) - Apices of the transverse prs. of the four upper. Latissimus Dorsi - Spinous processes of all. Serratus Posticus Inferior - Spinous processes of the two or three upper. Erector Spince - Spinous processes of all. Longissiinus Dorsi {Inner Series of Insertions) - Tubercles (mammillary) on back of super- ior articular processes. {Outer Series of Insertion^) - Posterior surfaces of transverse processes, Multifidus Spince - Tubercles (mammillary) on back of superior articular processes, spinous processes and adjoining portion of the laminae of all. Spinalis Dorsi - Spinous processes of the two first. Interspinales - Spinous processes of all. Intertransversales - Transverse processes of all. SACRUM - -^i"© six in number, and are attached as follows : - Erector Spines - Spinous processes and series of eminences on back of sacrum, whioh eminences represent the articular and transverse processes of the vertebrae. Multifidus Spin<z - Sacral groove. Gluteus Maximus - Post. surf, (by a tendinous expansion) & lower part of lateral border. Coccygeus - Side of lower piece. Pyriformis - Anterior surface between Ist, 2nd, 3rd, & 4th anterior sacral foramina, & grooves leading from them. Iliacus - Portion of base which forms part of iliac fossa. COCCYX — Are four in number, and are attached as follows: - Sphincter Ani - Tip. Coccygeus - ) Levator A7ii- } Gluteus Maximus - Side and back.