S74 PARTS CONCERNED in INGUINAL HERNIA-1st T. form the ingitinal & scrotal regions. From the latter are derived the superficial coverings of large hemijc, wl [f superficial coverings are the same as those of the cord & testis. The former comprises the parts v 0'u directly concerned in the occurence of the protrusion, and in the surgical operations thereby requi] SCROTAL REGION — vide " coverings of Cord & Testis." INGUINAL REGION — Bounded by Poupart's ligament, median line, horizontal line through antei superior spine of ilium. Presents for examination the following strata, between which the ingui canal is comprig Skin - Thin, freely movable, depressed over Poupart's ligament. Superficial Fascia - Continuous with that of thigh, scrotum (dartos) & perinseum. Divided into superflc & deep layers by the superficial vessels & nerv Superficial Layer - Thick, areolar, & more or less distended with fat. Passes over Poupart's ligami without adhering to i Deep Layer - Thin, membranous, contains no fat; adheres to Poupart's ligament. , SUPERFICIAL VESSELS & NERVES — Are : Arteries - Superficial epigastric, superficial circumflex iliac, superficial external pudlc l Veins - Corresponding ; open into internal saphenous. Lymphatics - Converge towards the Suj>erior or Abdoinmal set of Inguinal Lymphatic Glands - Three or four, sma obliquely disposed along Poupart's ligament; receive lymphatics of penis, scrotu; perinseum, lower part of abdomen & buttoc Nerves - Ilio-inguinal, & hypogastric branch of ilio-hypogastric. Aponeurosis of External Oblique - its fibres are oblique downwards & inwards, and form in successii Poupart's ligniiient, Gimbt;mat's ligament, Ojtter or Infe^'ior pillar of exter7tal abdo77iinal ri)ig, Inn or S7tperior pillar. Superficial part of Lmea Alba, by decussating with their fellows, and perhaps als after decussating, the Triangular ligajnent & the Intercolianfiarfibres of opposite sideQf i^Q Ah&omva Aponeuroses). Continuous with this stratum of fibres is the Inte7'cobimnar or exter7ial sperm tic fascia, thin, closely adherent to margin of external abdominal ring, and prolonged dowmvar into a tubular process around cord and testi Lower Part of Internal Oblique - Thin & pale, its fibres, which arise from outer half of Poupart ligament, pass i/iwards over speri/iatic C07-d (or roimd Iiga77ie7tt), and then curve do%v7iwards beJmtd & behind external abdominal ring & Gimbernat's ligament, covering inner two-thirds of Hesselbacli triangle and forming part of conjoined tendon of internal oblique & transversalis, and, becomir tendinous, are inserted over the extent of about half an inch into crest of pubes in front of rectus at into ilio-pectineal line behind Gimbernat's ligamen The Cremaster Muscle - (Vide " Muscles of the Abdomen " & Coverings of the Testicle ' I is connected with lowest fibres of internal oblique, and occasionally also with some of the lowes jP fibres of transversalis ijl Lower Part of Transversalis - Also thin & pale. Its fibres, which arise from outer third of Poupart ligament, take the same course as preceding, and, also becoming tendinous, are inserted with ther into crest of pubes and ilio-pectineal line to the extent of about an inch, completing conjoined tender Fascia Transversalis - Part of the general layer of fascia which lines the abdominal & pelvic cavities. Ii the inguinal region it is thick and dense, and presents the following points of interest:'{ AT CIRCUMFERE^^CE OF INTERNAL ABDOMINAL RING - It is prolonged into a tubulal process of membrane, the infu7idibulifor77i fascia, which descends round the con; & testis, forming the fascia propria round the latter' AT LOWER PART OF REGION - It is, - In Frojit of Femoral Vessels - First thickened into an oblique band adherent to Poupart'iji ligament & termed the deep crural arch, and then continued downwards beneatl Poupart's ligament in fijont of the vessels to form anterior wall of femoi"al sheathi Externally to Femoral Vessels - Attached to outer part of Poupart's ligament, and con' tinuous with fascia iliacal Internally to Femoral Vessels - Attached to crest of pubes & ilio-pectineal line behindl conjoined tendon & Gimbernat's ligament.j That part of the fascia transversalis which lies above Poupart's ligament between outer border of rectus muscle & epigastric artery (Hesselbach's triangle) is interesting as being the part whichj forms a covering to direct inguinal hernia.1 Subperitonial Areolar Tissue - More or less distended with fat. Forms a bed in whi«ii the epigastric artery passes upwards & inwards along lower & inner boundaries of internal abdominal ring ; is con-i _ tinned into a loose sheath round the cord.1 Peritoneum - Presents, before the superficial strata of the abdominal wall have been dissected, the twol /7igui7ial Fossce, i7tternal &^ exte7'7ial, which fosste correspond respectively to the external & internal abdommal rings, and are separated by an oblique crescentic fold of variable width & prominence,! formed by the epigastrie & obliterated hypogastric arteries.'