344 I THE SUPRARENAL CAPSULES. Small yellow or brownish crescentic flattened bodies, weighing from one to two drachms each, which lie oi npper & front part of kidney. - The right one is nearly triangular, lies a little lower, and is somewha smaller J the left one is more semilunar, lies a little higher^ and is somewhat larger. They present:. Anterior Surface - Covered on right side by right lobe of liver, on left side by tail o pancreas & spleen. Presents a small fissure, the hilum, from which the suprarenal vein emerges Posterior Surface - Rests upon cms of diaphragm opposite 10th dorsal vertebra. Lower Border or Base - Thick, concave, rests upon upper & front part of kidney. Upper Border - Thin, convex, directed upwards & inwards. In relation internally witl great splanchnic nerves & semilunar ganglia; and also with the aorta, on the left side and with the inferior vena cava, on the right side STRUCTURE. Three opinions are still held; - (1) The suprarenal capsules are vascular or ductless glands J (2) they form part of the sympathetic system; (3) their cortical substance oonsti. tutes a ductless gland, while their medullary substance is an appendix to the nervous system. The latter opinion is that of KoUiker. - They present for examination: - Fibrous Capsule. - Thin, and easily torn; sends numerous processes inwards. Its i deeper strata appear particularly rich in connective tissue corpuscles, but^ deficient in elastic fibres. Cortical Substance. - Firm, striated, of a deep yellow colour, separated from tb^l medullary substance by a layer of loose cellular tissue; forms the greater part? of the organ. It may be divided into one principal or relatively wide & inter- mediate layer or zone, the zona fasciculatay and two narrower or secondary zones, one external, the zona glonierulosai one internal, the zona reticularis (J. Arnold).! The principal or wide & intermediate zone, or zona fasciculata^ consists of ? column-like groups of cells arranged perpendicularly to the surface, and supported- by a relatively strong fibrous stroma. The groups of cells are about of an inch in diameter. The cells of which they are formed vary from -^^-q to of: an inch. They are polyhedral or many-sided through mutual pressure, finely granular, and scarcely stained by solutions of yellow chromate of potash; they contain a clear round nucleus, and frequently a few yellowish oil-globulea. The columnar arrangement is wanting in the outer & inner zones. In both, i the groups of cells are more rounded, and the stroma more equally distributed. In the outer zone (zona glomerulosa) are found oval spaces, of which it is difficult \ to say whether they communicate with the extremity of the columns or not. i The inner zone (zona reticularis) in the darkest part of the cortical substance. \ Medullary Substance - Absent from the edges & from the thin upper part of the j adult organ; probably everywhere present in the early condition. Much darker i than the cortical substance: frequently of that brownish black hue which gave I rise to the name of " atrabiliary capsules" formerly given to these organs. Also much softer: sometimes quite pulpy, and so easily lacerated that, by some ana> ; tomists, a central cavity was described in the interior. Consists of groups of cells i supported by a delicate stroma, the main points of interest in respect of which cells are the distinctions between them & the cells of the cortical substance, and their supposed connexion with nerve-fibres: They are coarsely granular & destitute of oil globules, and they are stained deeply by solutions of yellow chromate of potash. Some of them are branched, and their processes are said by Lushka to be continued into nerve-fibres. Hence they would be nerve- cells (Leydig, Lushka). This is denied,however, by other anatomists, who admit nevertheless that some of the ceils of the medullary substance are ganglion- cells placed in the course of nerve-fibres. The opinion of KoUiker is given above. Arteries - Are the suprarenal brs. of the abdominal aorta, renal, & inferior phrenic. Entering from the surface generally, they first pass up between the columns of the cortical substance, enclosing each column in fine elongated capillary meshes, i A network of more roanded meshes pervades the medullary substance. Veins - Converge from the centre of the organ towards the hilum on the anterior surface, which they generally leave as one trunk. They open on the right side jj into the inferior vena cava, on the left side into the left renal. jj Lymphatics - Are but imperfectly known. They maybe divided into superficial* I deep. They open into the lambar glands. 11 Nerves - Are exceedingly numerous, and are derived from the solar & renal jj plexuses, and, according to Bergmann, from the phrenic & the pneumogastric |j nerves. They enter mainly towards the inner border & the base. " They pass j| up between the columns of the cortical substance, which they do not appear to supply. They then spread out in the zona reticularis and enter the medullary substance, where they form a complicated network. They consist mainly of meduUated fibres. Numerous small ganglia are formed upon them, both outside & within the organ.