I 4sy THE RADIUS I Is smaller & shorter than than the nlna, and is smaller above than below. Presents: UPPER EXTREMITY — The smaller. Presents: EEead - Cylindrical laterally and cup-shaped above. The cup articulates with the capi. tellum of the humerus, and its inner & broader edge articulates with the groove between the capitellum & the trochlea. The inner & broader part of the cylindrical surface articulates with the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, the outer narrower part plays upon the orbicular ligament. Keck - Is the constricted & rounded portion, which supports the head. It presents posteriorly a slight ridge for supinator brevis. Tuberosity - Lies at the lower, inner & front part of the neck. It is rough behind for insertion of biceps, and smooth in front, where it is covered by a bursa. LOWER EXTREMITY — Large, thick, quadrilateral, and presents an inferior surface, articular, and four lateral surfaces, of which the inner one is also articular. Inf. Articular Surface - Triangular, concave, divided by a slight antero-posterior ridge into an outer, larger, triangular portion for scaphoid, and an inner, smaller, quadrilateral portion for semilunar. Int. Articular Surface, or Sigmoid Cavity - Narrow, concave, articulates with head of ulna. Ant. Surface - Excavated; gives attachment to pronator quadratus. Its lower pro- minent margin gives attachment to anterior ligament of wrist-joint. Ext. Surface - Is prolonged downwards into the Styloid Process - Thick & conical; gives attachment at its base to supinator longus. at its apex, to external lateral ligament of wrist-joint. On its outei surface is a shalloav groove^ oblique downwards & forwards and divided into two by s slight ridge, which groove transmits the extensores ossis meta- carpi & primi internodii poUicis, both of which are enclosed ii one synovial sheath Post. Surface - Convex, gives attachment below to posterior ligament of wrist-joint, anc presents from without inwards ? broad 6^ shallow groove divided into two by a slight ridge, which groovf transmits the extensores carpi radialis longior & brevier, botl enclosed in one synovial sheath narrow deep groove for extensor secundi internodii pollicis & a synovia sheath h'oad shallow groove for extensores indicis & communis digitorum bot enclosed in one synovial sheath half-groove completed internally by head of ulna, for extensor minimi digit & a synovial sheatl SHAFT — Slightly concave anteriorly, small & rounded above, larger & prismoid below. Pre sents Borders - Three: Anterior - From front of bicipital tuberosity to front of base of styloid process. I prominent above, where it forms the oblique line., and gives attachment to th supinator brevis, flexor sublimis digitorum & flexor longus pollicis; is sharp! marked below for pronator quadratui Posterior - From back of neck to back of styloid process; is most distinct in i\ middle thin Internal - From back of tuberosity to sigmoid cavity, to embrace which it bifurcate inferiorly. Gives attachment to the interosseous ligament, and is sharpet towards its middl Surfaces-Three: Anterior - Narrow & concave in upper three-fourths for flexor longus pollicis, broa h concave in lov^er fourth for pronator quadratus. Presents nutrient forame a little above its middl Posterior - Narrow & rounded above for supinator brevis; broad & convex belc Gives origin towards its middle, where it is rough & slightly concave, to extei sor primi internodii pollicis & to some of the fibres of the extensor ossis met; car] External - Eounded 4 convex. Gives attachment above to supinator brevis at presents towards its middle a rough impression for pronator radii teres.