346 THE MAMMA. Budimentary in the malei email in the female before pnberty; inoreaees in iise during pregnancy & after delivery. - Present!j POSTERIOR SURFACE, or BASE — Somewhat concave; nearly circular, but e slightly elongated from below upwards & outwards. Rests upon pectoralis major i & fascia covering it, and extends from 3rd rib to the 6th or 7th, and from side of sternum to azillai ANTERIOR SURFACE — Presents, a little below its middle, the nipple surrounded by the areola. ! Nipple - Cylindrical or conical; pt«9sents at its apex the openings of the lactiferouB ducts. Its surface is of a pink or brownish hue, wrinkled, provided with papillae, and, near its base, with some sebaceous glands. It is susceptible of a sort of erection due mainly to the contraction of its muscular fibres. < Areola - Rosy in the virgin j larger & darker in colour after the second month of pregnancy & during lactation (when its sebaceous glands enlarge consider. ably), and also somewhat so during the remainder of life. STRUCTURE of the MAMMA — Presents: ' Mammary Gland - Compound conglomerate gland, pale, firm, of same shape aif, j but smaller than, the breast taken as a whole. Each of its several lobeB I consists of lobules, themselves made up of acini & of small excretory { ducts, the latter uniting to form larger ones. The large excretory duota, tubuli lactiferi or galactophori^ from fifteen to twenty in number, con. verge towards the areola, beneath which they form dilatations or ampullv, I which serve as reservoirs for the milk. At the base of the nipple they become 1 contracted, and they then pursue a straight course to its apex, where they i end by separate apertures considerably narrower than the ducts them, i selves. - The nipple contains numerous blood-vessels intermixed with plain | muscular fibres, j FibrO" Areolar Tissue - Forms a firm capsule to the gland & septa between its lobes, and surrounds the organ, except beneath the areola & nipple, with a thick stratum of adipose tissue, which greatly increases its size. Vessels & Nerves - Arteries. From the thoracic branches of the axillary, the j intercostals, & the internal mammary. - Veins. Form an anastomotic I circle round the base of the nipple, from which circle large branches | radiate towards the circumference of the gland, and end in the axillary & ! internal mammary veins. - Lymphatics. Open into the glands alongf lower border of pectoralis major. - Neeves. From anterior & lateral cuta- neous nerves of the thora*