324 THE LARYNX-5th Tablet, LIGAMENTS — Are: EXTRINSIC — Three; connect larynx to hyoid bono. - They aret i Thyro-Hyoid Membrane - Broad fibro-elastic membrane from Upper border of thyroid cartilage to | Upper border of hyoid bone^ being separated from posterior surface of hyoid; bone by a little loose cellular tissue in which a bursa is usually found It is thickest towards middle and perforated laterally by superior laryn. i geal vessels & nerves. Behind it are the epiglottis & the mucous mem. brane of the base of the tongue, with a considerable amount of adipose tissue & some mucous glands. Lateral Thyro-Hyoid Ligaments - Rounded fibro-eiastic cords from Superior cornua of thyroid cartilage to Extremities of greater cornua of hyoid bone. - These ligaments often contain a small cartilaginous nodule, the cartilago friticea i INTRINSIC —Connect cartilages of larynx as follows: On the one hand the cricoic to the thyroid & arytsenoid, on the other the epiglottis to the thyroid.-: They are: i Crico-Thyroid Membrane - Yellow elastic lamina divided into: , Central Portion - Thick, triangular, broadest below; connects Contiguous margins of cricoid dr* thyroid. Lateral Portions - Thinner; extend from j Upper border of cricoid cartilage as far back as cricO'thyroid arthrodia to Lower border of inferior or true vocal cordy uniting firmly with the lattervij especially in front. - The central portion is concealed by crico.thyroi( muscles, except in mesial line, and is crossed by crico-thyroid branchei of superior thyroid arteries; the lateral portions are covered by the thyro; & lateral crico-arytsenoid muscles, and are lined internally by muoouii membrane of larynx j Crico-Thyroid Capsules - Thin, strongest behind ; enclose the arthrodia jj articulations between cricoid & inferior cornua of thyroid, and an j lined internally with synovial membranft Posterior Crico-Arytsenoid Ligament - Short but strong band from Back of cricoid cartilage to Back of base of arytcenoid. . Crico-Arytsenoid Capsules - Thin; surround the arthrodial articulationi; between upper border of cricoid cartilage & bases of the arytsenoidi and are lined internally with synovial membranej Thyro-Epiglottic Ligament - Long & slender band connecting Apex of epiglottis to Upper part of receding angle of thyroid. Hyo-Epiglottic Ligament - Somewhat indistinct; extends amidst a con; siderable amount of adipose tissne fronij Anterior surface of epiglottis to ;j Upper border of hyoid bone. i j To the foregoing llrgaments must be added the superior & inferio; thyro-arytsenoid described with the vocal cords, and the somewba indistinct nbro-cartilaginous capsules frequently found between th( arytEenoid cartilages & the cornicula laryngis