InterGelli^lar Eetldilmn. An intercellular reticulum is said to surround the cells, and to enclose them on all sides. But whether this reticulum is a sustentacular network of cell-processes, or not, is still uncertain. By Pfliiger, as will be seen below, it is described as consisting, in part at least, of a plexus of fine nerve-fibres. According to Saviotti, Langerhans, & others, it is a plexus of " Salivary Capillaries," i. (?., of minute canals communicating with the alveoli; and in support of this view it is stated that, when a salivary gland is injected from its duct, the injection matter, after filling the alveoli, passes into, and distends, these capillaries. According to G-ianuzzi, it is a plexus of lymphatics. Mug§gs_^ccmn4 the ^^^^^^^^ Pfliiger believes that he has been able to trace the nerve-fibres into direct continuity with the secreting cells. These nerve-fibres would terminate in one of the four following ways: - 1. - The nerve loses its sheath as it perforates the basement membrane j it then divides into smaller fibres, which run between the cells. Each of these fibres perforates the wall of a cell, and ends in its nucleus. 2. - Some of the nerves terminate upon the cells in a kind of expansion or foot, the so-called "protoplasm foot," whose substance is intermediate in nature between glandular tissue and nervous tissue. 3. - The bases of the cells which line the ducts present a varicose prolongation which per- forates the basement membrane, and becomes continuous with several nerve-fibres. These pass up towards the nucleus, giving rise to the striae which mark the peripheral portion of the cell. 4. - Sympathetic nerve-fibres terminate in multipolar ganglion-cells, the caudate^ oflEsefei of which penetrate into the glandular cells, and end in their nucleus. By most physiologistSi this account has not been favourably received. Epithelimn of the Ducts. In the very smallest ducts, i. in those which are continued from the alveoli, there is a single layer of slighly flattened spheroidal epithelium. In the ducts a little larger, the epithelium suddenly becomes columnar, or rather conical or pyramidal: the smaller ends of the cells are turned towards the lumen, and are homogeneous or granular; their larger ends are turned towards the basement membrane, and are slightly striated vertically. As above stated, this striation is due, according to Pfliiger, to flne nerve-fibres passing up towards the nucleus. In the largest ducts, the epithelium becomes tesselated j and a few white, yellow elastic, & muscular fibres surround the basement membrane externally. The lymphatics are described as commencing in fissures between & around the alveoli (Gianuzzi). 3