295 THE TONGUE-3rd Tablet, MUCOUS MEMBRANE. Thick & rough on anterior two-thirda of dorsum, sides, & tip j thin & smooth on posterior third of dorsum & on under surface. Consists of a cutis or corium dense & very similar to that of the skin, and of a thick layer of squamous epithelium; and presents: PAPILLA — Highly sensitive vascular projections divisible into simple and compound. The former are similar to the papillae of the skin, and cover whole of tongue; the latter, which are themselves studded with simple papillse, are found on rough surface only, and are divided according to their size & shape into • Papillse Maximsa or Circumvallatse - From 7 to 12 j situated at junction of middle & posterior thirds of dorsum, where they are arranged in two rows oblique backwards & inwards, which rows meet at foramen coecum and form together an inverted V. They consist of a central conical projection, the base of which is free while its apex is attached, which projection is contained in a cup-shaped depression bounded itself by a prominent circular rim. - The foramen coecum is the central depression, usually large, which lodges the central papilla, itself frequently small. Papillse Mediae or Fungiformes - Club.shaped, and present narrow attached & rounded free extremities. Sparingly scattered over anterior two-thirds of dorsum, collected in greater numbers over sides & tip. Papillae Minimse, or Conicse et FiliformeS - Tapering or cylindrical, closely packed over whole of rough surface, and arranged in rows which are vertical on borders & tip, and which are, on dorsum, parallel, posteriorly, to the rows of circumvallate papillae, but, anteriorly, more directly transverse. - The simple or secondary papillse borne by the filiform papillae contain a few elastic fibres, and their epithelial sheaths are prolonged beyond them sometimes to the extent of forming a pencil of almost hair.like fibres. In the fungiform & circumvallate, and probably also in the filiform papillae, the nerves form plexuses, from which small brush-like filaments are given off to the secondary papillae. These filaments are believed to terminate in the deep extremities of spindle-shaped nucleated bodies similar to the olfactory cells of Schultze(Billroth, Key). GLANDS—Are: Follicular - Aggregated on posterior third of dorsum behind papillae circumvallataa, and very similar to the follicular recesses of the tonsils. KaceniOSe - I^i© beneath & in front of foregoing, and over sides & under surface of tongue. On under surface near tip they are collected into two small oblong masses first described by Blandin & Nuhn.