170 ULNAR ARTERY The larger branch of bifurcation of brachial half an inch below bend of elbow, or opposit( neck of radius Deeply to near middle of inner border of forearm, lying upon brachialis anticus & flexoi profundus and beneath median nerve and all the superficial muscles except fiexoi carpi ulnaris, and being at a distance from ulnar nerve i Beneath skin and fascia only along front of inner border of forearm, lying, with ulnar nerv(' on its inner side, between flexor carpi ulnaris & flexor sublimis digitonim Over anterior annular ligament on outer side of pisiform bone & slightly in front of nerve. i Crosses palm of hand beneath skin & fascia and in front of flexor tendons & divisions o [ median & ulnar nerves, forming superficial palmar arch. This arch lies on a leve with lower border of abducted thumb, a finger's breadth below deep palmar arch and usually joins with superficialis volse or radialis indicis, or sometimes witl princeps pollicis BRANCHES: Ant. ulnar recurrent — Small. Between pronator radii teres & brachiali anticus, and anastomoses with inferior profunda & anastomotica magna Post, ulnar recurrent — Larger. Beneath flexor sublimis, and then betweei olecranon & inner condyle beneath flexor carpi ulnaris, and anastomosei with interosseous recurrent, and with inferior profunda & anastomotic! magna Interosseous — Thick, an inch in length, to upper border of interosseous membrane where divides into " Ant. Interosseous — Down front of interrosseous membrane with corres ponding branch of median nerve and between flexors longu pollicis & profundus digitorum. Behind pronator quadratus, an through lower part of interosseous membrane to back of carpui where joins with posterior interosseous & posterior carpal arch.- Gives off a long slender twig to median nerve, and their nutrier arteries to radius & ulnr Post. Interosseous — Between interosseous membrane & oblique or roun ; ligament, and then between superficial & deep muscles of back ( forearm to back of carpus, where anastomoses with termination ( anterior carpal & with posterior carpal arch; gives o Interosseous Recurrent —Beneath anconeus & supinator brevis t interval between olecranon & external condyle, and aiiastc moses with superior profunda & posterior ulnar recurren Ant. Carpal — Joins with anterior carpal branch of radial beneath deep flex( tendons; gives twigs to articulations of carpu Post, carpal — Beneath tendon of flexor carpi ulnaris, and over back of carpi , beneath extensor tendons, joining with posterior carpal branch of radia and forming posterior carpal arch (Vide Eadial artery). Sends a sma branch along metacarpal bone of little finge Communicating — Between abductor & flexor brevis minimi digiti, and joii with termination of radial to complete deep palmar arc. Superficial palmar interosseous (Digital) —Usually four, but rather var able in size & number. Descend with terminal branches of median & ulni , nerves, first in front of, and then between, the flexor tendons ( and on inm side of the innermost), and join with deep palmar interosseous brancb from deep palmar arch. The trunks thus formed divide at clefts betwee fingers to form digital branches to 3^ fingers on inner side of ban