224 PARTS SEEN on FLOOR of LATERAL VENTRICLE Are from before iDaclcwards CORPUS STRIATUM — Large pear-sTiapod mass of gvej matter embedded externally in whii substance of frontal lobe. Presen ji Ant. Extremity - Broad ; projects into anterior part of body of lateral ventricle, forming piji of its floor, and into anterior cornu of the same cavi,, Post. Extremity - Narrow; passes backwards and outwards on outer side of optic thalamus! The corpus striatum is divided into two portions, the intra- & extra-ventricul i by a layer or sti-atnm of nscending & diverging white fibres which form the pec\ or the corona radiata of Rcil. Part of those fibres are derived from the inferior or f j. ciculated portion, and also from the upper part or tegmentum, of the crus cereV| part of them originate in the corpus striati j. TCENIA SEMICIRCUL ARIS — Whitish semi-transparent band of fibres, which descends i teriorly in connection with anterior crus of fornix, and is lost posteriorly in descend! j cornu of lateral ventricle; it partly conceals the vena corporis stria! OPTIC THALAMUS — Large ovoid mass of grey matter white superficially, similar to cor| striatum, behind & internally to Avhich it is situated, and similarly traversed by numen i ascending & diverging white fibres, which are partly derived from upper portion of ci \ cerebri, olivary fasciculus, fasciculus teres, processus e cerebello ad testes & corpora quae gemina, and which partly originate in the thalamus. Presen- Ant. Extremity - Narrow, situated behind anterior crus of fornix; forms posterior boundary ' foramen of Mor , Post. Extremity - Broad & rounded. Projects into descending cornu of lateral ventricle, a , is continuous on inner side with tubercula quadrigemi Upper Surface - Anteriorly it forms part of floor of lateral ventricle, and presents a slij : elevation, the anterior tubercle; posteriorly it is covered by fornix, which rests upor . Under Surface - Continuous with posterior rounded extremity. In its posterior part it foi i roof of descending cornu of lateral ventricle, and presents two small eminences, i corpora genictdata internum et externnm, which are connected respectively with innei ; outer bands of origin of optic tract. In its anterior part it rests upon the crus cere' \ and is penetrated by the radiating fibres above mention , Inner Surface - Forms lateral boundary of 3rd ventricle. Is joined to its fellow by the midi ^ soft, or grey commissure, and presents inferiorly the grey matter of the interior of > thalamus uncovered by the white. The superior peduncle of the pineal gland se ■ rates this surface from the upj \ Outer Surface - Continuous anteriorly with posterior narrow extremity of corpus striati , and embedded posteriorly in white substance of temporo-sphenoidal Ic . CHOROID PLEXUS — The thick, convoluted & fringe-like margin of the velum interpositun ■ Vide Velum interpositi . CORPUS FIMBRIATUM or TAENIA HIPPOCAMPI - The thin lateral margin of |. posterior crus of the fori FORNIX — Triangular longitudinal lamella of white matter broad behind, narrow in front, situa . below corpus callosum with which it is joined behind, and to which it is connected in fri _ by septum lucidum; forms roof of third & posterior part of floor of both lateral ventric !• Presen! Body - Presents: - Joined behind with corpus callosum, and connected in front to the sa by septum lucidum; forms posterior part of floor of both lateral ventric l Under Surface-'^I^xVq.^ posteriorly by a few transverse & anteriorly converging fibi i which form the lyra. Forms centrally the roof of 3rd ventricle; rests laterally uj | optic thalami. Is covered by velum interpositi j Anterior Crura - Descend behind anterior white commissure & in front of optic thalan , forming anterior boundary of foi-amen of Monro, and perforate grey substance ' floor of 3rd ventricle to corpora albicantia, in which they twist upon themselves; tl then ascend to corresponding optic thalan > Posterior Crura - Diverge into the descending cornua of lateral ventricles, becoming coutinu ji with inner border of hippocampus major. Their thin lateral margin is the corpusj • briatum or tcenia hippocah • i