335 ! iJTRUCTURE of the BLADDER. Four ooata, and vessels & nerves: - Serous Coat - Covers posterior surface & sides, and partly also the base or fundus, the peri- toneum descending upon the latter part of the organ to about four inches from the anus when the bladder is distended, and nearly reaching the prostate when the bladder is empty. Muscular Coat - Consists of: - External Longitudinal Fibres - Arise from front of neck, from anterior true or pubo-prostatic ligaments, & from sides of prostate; they spread out mainly over anterior & partly over lateral surfaces of bladder, some being con- tinued into urachus, and those of anterior surface also passing over apex and down posterior surface to back of neck, & to prostate or vagina. Intermediate Circular Fibres - Are thinly scattered over body of bladder, but they form round the neck a thick circular ring, the sphincter vesicce, which ia continuous in front with circular fibres of prostatic portion of urethra. Internal Longitudinal or SuBiiucous Fibres (Ellis) - Form a delicate layer most marked in lower part of bladder, and continued inferiorly upon prostatic portion of urethra. Two Oblique Bands, the Muscles of the Ureters (Sir C. Bell) - Extend from behind orifice of ureters to back of middle lobe of prostate. A Strong Teansverse Band - Joining the orifices of the ureters (Ellis). N. - According to Dr. Pettigrew all these muscular fibres will be seen, if traced continuously, to form figure-S loops, which loops point towards the apex & the base of the bladder, and are so arranged as to present their two extremities on one aspect of the bladder & their point of decussation on the opposite aspect J these loops would form four sets, viz., anterior & posterior well developed, and two lateral less developed. Cellular Coat - Connects the muscular & mucous coats, and is more intimately joined to the latter than to the former. ]V£UC0US Coat - Soft, of a light rosy colour, often thrown into prominent folds or rugge (fas- ciculated bladder) through hypertrophy of the muscular coat, sometimes depressed into saccular pouches (sacculated bladder) through the effects of stricture. Its epithelium is intermediate between the columnar & the squamous. It presents a few mucous follicles, and, near the neck, some small racemose glands, and ia loosely connected to the muscular coat, except over the Tkigonum Vesica - Triangular smooth area, pale in colour, bounded by the orifices of the urethra & ureters and by the projections of the muscles of the ureters & of the transverse muscular band joining the orifices of the latter. It corresponds to the interval at the base of the bladder bounded by the vesi. culae seminales & vasa deferentia, the recto-vesical fold of the peritoneum, & the prostate gland; and from its apex there projects into the neck of the bladder the Uvula Vesica - A slight elevation formed by the submucous tissue and by the internal longitudinal or submucous muscular fibres (Ellis), and also, in morbid cases, by the hypertrophy of the middle lobe of the prostate. Vessels & Nerves - Arteries. Are the superior, middle & inferior vesical, and twigs from the middle haemorrhoidal, uterine, vaginal & obturator. ~ Veins. Form a compli- cated plexus round the neck & sides of the base, and open into the internal iliacs. - Lymphatics. Open into the pelvic glands. - No-ves. Are from the sacral & hypo- gastric plexuses, the former supplying principally the base & neck, and the latter, the upper part of the bladder.