210 STRUCTURE of the SPINAL CORD-3rd Tablet. Continuation Upwards of the White Fibres of the Columns into 5 the Medulla Oblongata. 3 ■| j Anterior Colunan - Is thrust aside in the medulla oblongata by those autero-internal i; fibres of the lateral column, which, after decussating in the middle line, form the i innermost & greater part of the anterior pyramid of the opposite side. It then divides into three bundles as follows: Innermost Bundle - Joins externally the above mentioned antero-internal fibres of the lateral tract, and forms the smaller & outermost part of the anterior pyramid of the same side. Middle Bundle - Surrounds the olivary nucleus, above which it forms, with a few fibres arising from this nucleus, the olivary fasciculus or fillet. EXTERNA.L OR POSTERIOR BUNDLE - Passes upwards & backwards to join the processus cuneatus, and goes to form part of the inferior peduncle of the cerebellum. Lateral Colunm - Dimities into three bundles as follows: Antero-Internal Bundle -Passes forwards & inwards between the anterior columns, i thrusting these columns aside, and forms, after decassating in the middle | line, the innermost & greater part of the anterior pyramid of the opposite side, Middle Bundle-Ascends with the fasciculus gracilis beneath the grey matter of j the floor of the 4th ventricle, forming part of the fasciculus teres, i [ External or Posterior Bundle - Passes upwards & backwards to join the fasciculus cuneatus, and goes to form part of the inferior peduncle of the cerebellum. Posterior Column - Divides into two bundles as follows : Internal Bundle or Fasciculus Gracilis - The smaller. Ascends beneath the grey ji matter of the floor of the 4th ventricle, and goes to form part of the fasci* j| cuius teres, ji i Extepnal Bundle or Fasciculus Cuneatus - The larger. Diverges from its fellow at !i- the apex of the calamus scriptorius, and passes upwards & outwards to form i| J the greater part of the inferior peduncle of the cerebellum, jil N.—The reader is here reminded once for all that by the "continuation" of !| nervB-fibres referred to in this & other Tablets, the Author means, not the J continuation of the individual tubular fibres (respecting the absolute origin 1 & termination of which tubular fibres little is "yet positively known), but jp the continuation of the several bundles of nerve-fibres, which continuation is marked by the general direction of the fibres.