21 PETROUS PORTION of the TEMPORAL BONE, Pyramidal, directed forwards & inwards and wedged in between the sphenoid & the basi- lar process of the occipital. Presents: Ba^Se — ^ts exposed part presents the Meatus atcditorius externtiSy the lower part of which is snrronnded by the Auditory pi'ocess, to which is attached the cartilage of the pinna. Apex — Presents the Internal orifice of the carotid canal; and forms the posterior & enter boundaries of the foramen lacerum medium. Ant. Surface — Forms posterior boundary of middle fossa of base of skull, and presents from before backwards & outwards the: Internal orijice of the carotid canal, Depression for Gassei-ian ganglion, Hiatus Fallopii with a grooz't leading to it, both for large superficial petrosal nerve and petrosal branch of middle meningeal artery, and near which hiatus are frequently seen Ttuo or three other small forami)ia for small superficial petrosal nerve, petrosal branch of glosso-pharyngeal & branch of glosso-pharyngeal to large superficial petrosal nerve. Eminence corresponding to the superior semi'circular canal, on the outer side of which is a Depression corresponding to the cavity of the tympanum. Post. Surface — Forms anterior boundary of posterior fossa of base of skull, and presents : Meatus auditoriits internus for facial nerve and auditory artery & nerve; Opening of Aqueductus Vestibuli for small artery & vein to vestibule & a process of the dura mater. Inf. or Basilar Surface — Presents in a diagonal line from before backwards & outwards: Rough surface for origin of levator palati & tensor tympani; Inferior orifice of carotid canal; Vagitialprocess which embraces root of " Styloid process, which gives attachment from above downwards to the stylo-pharyngeus, -hyoideus & -glossus muscles, and to the stylo-hyoid k, -maxillary ligts., Stylo-mastoid foramen for facial nerve & stylo-mastoid artery. - Behind & on inner side of the carotid canal & vaginal process are the Jugular surface, which articulates with jugular process of occipital, and the Jugular fossa for sinus of internal jugular vein, which fossa assists in forming jugular foramen or foramen lacerum posterius, and has near to it: Opening for Arnold's nerz-e, on its outer wall, f Opening for Jacobson's nerve, in front, on bony ridge between it & carotid jj canal. Opening of Aqueductus Cochlece, in front & to inner side, close to posterior border of the petrous bone. Borders — Three: Superior - Grooved for superior petrosal sinus k attachment of tentorium cerebelli. Posterior - Grooved in front for inferior petrosal sinus; presents jugular fossa behind. Anierior - Its IXXER PART articulates with spine of sphenoid; its outer part is joined by J a suture to the squamous portion of the bone. In the angle of junction of these jj two portions are found the Canal for the tensor tympani muscle above, and the _ . ^ Osseous portion of the Eustachian tube oelo^, on the outer side of which latter opening is th« Canal of Huguier for exit of chorda tympani.