336 THE MALE URETHRA Is about 8| inches lon^, and extends from neck of bladder to end of penis, ■ It presents beneath the pubes a fixed curve concave superiorly, and in front of the pubes I the flaccid state of the penis, a second flexible curve concave inferior ■ It is divided into: - | PBOSTATIC PORTION — The widest & most dilatable part, spindle-shaped, 1| incl; long} passes through the prostate from base to apex, lying nearer its upper than lower surface. Its transverse section is of a horse-shoe shape concave inferior | On its floor are the following parts; Ubethkal Crest, Yerumontanum or Caput Gallinaginis - Longitudinal elevation 8 oi lines in length and 1^ lines high at its central & highest part, consisting, accoi ing to Kobelt, of muscular flbres & erectile tissue. On either side of the cn is t. Prostatic Sinus - A longitudinal groove into which open the ducts of the lateral lobe the prostate. On the front part of the crest is t Utricle, Sinus Poculabis or Vesicula Prostatica - An expanding cul-de-sac, whi passes backwards into the substance of the middle lobe of the prostate for abo a quarter of an inch, and upon or within the margins of which are the slit-li openings of the ejaculatory due MEMBRANOUS PORTION —The shortest, and, excepting the meatus, the narrowest ps of the canal. It extends from apex of prostate to bulb of corpus spongiosum, and situated between, the two layers of the deep perinseal fascia, which layers are pi longed around it, the one downwards & forwards, the other upwards & backwan Its upper surface is concave superiorly, f of an inch long, and situated about an in below & behind the pubic arch, from which arch it is separated by the anterior fibi of the compressor urethrse muscle & by the dorsal vessels & nerves of the penis, ] under surface is convex inferiorly, only ^ inch long (in consequence of the bulb pi jecting backwards beneath the urethra), and separated from the rectum by a triang i lar space, broad below, narrow above, the perinaou SPONGY PORTION — Commences within the bulb below & behind the symphysis pub ascends a short distance in front of the symphysis within the corpus spongiosui curves downwards with the latter in the flaccid state of the penis, and ends at the meat urinarius. It is about six inches long. In the greatest part of its course it is unifoi; in size, and intermediate between the prostatic & membranous portions; it is dilate however, within the bulb & within the glans penis (in which latter situation the dil tation forms the fossa navicularis), and is greatly constricted at the meatus. 1! transverse section is elongated from side to side except withia the glans penis, whe! it is elongated vertically. On its walls, and more particularly on its floor, are the ope ings of numerous mucous glands, the glands of Littre, which openings are directed fo wards, and are sometimes large enough to intercept the passage of small catheter this is especially the case with one of them, which is situated on the upper wall oft! i fossa navicularis, and which constitutes the lacuna magna. On the floor of its pc terior dilated portion comprised within the bulb, and sometimes termed the bulbo! portion, are the openings of the ducts of Cowper's glanc STRUCTURE — Three coats: - | Mucous Coat - Thin, pale in the prostatic portion, rosy in the membranous & spon{J portions, in which it is thrown into longitudinal folds (except when the canal ; distended with urine). Covered with columnar epithelium except in the fosi navicularis, where the epithelium is squamous. Presents the glands of Litt above described, which glands are most abundant in the spongy portion, ar, presents also, near the meatus, a few papilli \ Muscular Coat - Consists of external longitudinal & internal circular unstriped mu cular fibres, both most abundant in the prostatic portio i Srectile Coat - Thick in the spongy portion, where it forms the corpus spongiosu ■ (Yide Structure of the Penis). From this a thin layer of erectile tissue is pr ; longed upwards round the membranous & prostatic portions as far as the net of the bladder, forming in the prostatic portion, according to Kobelt, the ver montanum or oaput gallinagini >