191 I StoAL VEINS. May bo divided into extra-spinal or dorsi-spinal veins, and into intra-spinal veins or veins of the cord & its membrane*. EXTRA-SPINAL or DORSI-SPINAL VEINS — Form a dense & complicated net. work which surrounds the laminas & the spinous, transverse, & articular processes of the vertebras from the atlas to the coccyx. Posteriorly they receive small branches from the muscles & integument behind the spine, and communicate with the intraspinal veins by branches which perforate the ligaraenta subflava. Anteriorly, after again communicating with the intraspinal veins through the intervertebral foramina, they open into the vertebral veins, in the neck, the intercostal veins, in the back, and the lumbar & sacral veins, in the loins & pelvia. INTRA-SPINAL VEINS — May be divided into anterior longitudinal, posterior longitudi. nal, & meningo-rachidian. - They are not provided with valves. Anterior Longitudinal - Two large irregular tortuous trunks most developed in the dorsal & lumbar regions, which descend over back of bodies of vertebrao along whole length of spine on either side of posterior common ligament. They communicate with each other opposite each vertebra by a transverse branch, which passes beneath the common ligament and receives the vense basis verte- bras. Opposite the intervertebral foramina, they communicate with the dorsi. spinal veins, and also with the vertebrals, in the neck, the iutercostals, in the back, and the lumbar & sacral veins, in the loins & pelvis. The vencB basis vertebrarum, or veins of the bodies of the vertebrae, are contained in large tortuous canals very similar to those found in the diploe of the bouo^ of the skull. They arise from the whole of the periphery of the bodies, where they communicate with the small veins which enter through the foramina on the anterior surface, and, passing horizontally backwards, they converge towards one or two principal trunks which open into the branches of communi- cation between the anterior longitudinal veins Posterior Longitudinal - Somewhat smaller than foregoing, but equally tortuous. Descend along anterior aspect of laminae, coramunioating with each other, the anterior longitudinal, & the dorsi-spinal. MeningO-Rachidian - Emerge from the cord chiefly along its postero-median fissure, and form a minute plexus which surrounds the whole of the cord between the pia mater & the arachnoid. Near the base of the skull they unite into two or three small trunks, which communicate with the vertebral veins, and open into the inferior cerebellar. They join with the other veins of the spinal canal through branches which accompany the spinal nerves as far as the interver. tebral foramina.