217 THE MESOCEPHALON Is the connecting link between the cerebrum, cerebellum & medulla oblongata. It consists of the following parts: - Pons Varolii or Ttiher Anmilare with the superficial & deep transverse fibres of the Middle Peduncles of the Cerebelhim ; Crura Cerebri divided into tinder or fascic7ilatedportion and ubper part or tegmentum ; Inferior Peduncles of the Cerebelhim, and Superior Peduncles with the Valve of Vieussens; Tubercula Quadrigemina & Pineal Gland. Pons Varolii or Tuber Annulare - Broad transverse band of white fibres which arch like a bridge from one hemisphere of the cerebellum to the other, forming laterally the middle peduncles of the cerebellum. Presents : - Under Surface - Marked by a median shallow groove for basilar artery. Gives off laterally the two roots, anterior small or motor, posterior large or sensory, of the 5th pair of cranial nerves. Upper Border - The most prominent & the most convex, from beneath which the crura cerebri are seen to emerge. Lower Border - Less prominent & less convex, into which the anterior pyramids, olivary fasciculi & lateral tracts of the medulla are seen to penetrate, and from the anterior aspect of which the Gfch cranial nerves are sometimes given otf. - Laterally the pons Varolii is continued into the two Middle Peduncles of the Cerebellum or Crura Cerebelli - Which form its two lateral portions. Crura Cerebri - Two thick cylindrical or slightly flattened bundles of white fibres about | of an inch long & rather wider in front than behind, which emerge from the anterior border of the pons and pass forwards & outwards to the corpora striata & optic thalami. They ai*e crossed externally by the 4th nerve & inferiorly by the optic tract, the anterior border of which latter is slightly adherent to them. Their inner border bounds posteriorly the interpeduncular space, and gives origin to the 3rd cranial nerve. They are divided into an under or fasciculated portion & an upper portion or tegmentum, between which two portions is a small mass of grey matter, the locus niger. Inferior Peduncles of the Cerebellum or Processus e Cerebello ad Medullam - Two thick bundles of white fibres which descend from the inner & under pait of the cerebellum to the back of the medulla, where they join the processus cuneati. They form the lower part of the lateral boundary of the 4th ventricle. Superior Peduncles of the Cerebellum or Processus e Cerebello ad Testes - Two thick bundles of white fibres which ascend from the upper & mner part of the cere- bellum to the testes, forming part of the roof & of the lateral boundary of the 4th ven- tricle. They are connected together by the Valve of Vieussens - Thin transparent lamina of white matter narrow in front, where it presents a slight median ridge, the frenulum, and, on either side of thia', the roots of the 4th nerve, broader behind, where it is continued into the under surface of the superior vermiform process and is crossed by a few transverse bands of grey matter prolonged upwards from tiie cerebellum. It forms the roof of the aqueduct of Sylvius & a part of the roof of the 4th ventricle. Tubercula Quadrigemina - Four small rounded eminences separated by a crucial depression, and situated below the posterior extremity or splenium of the corpus oallosum, above & behind the posterior commissure & the 3rd ventricle, above & in front of the super- ior peduncles of the cerebellum & the valve of Vieussens. Anterior or Nates - Are larger, darker, slightly oblong from befoi-e backwards,and connected with the optic thalami & the commencement of the optic tracts by two broad white bands, the brachia anteriora. Posterior or Testes - Are smaller, lighter in colour, more exactly rounded, and connected with the optic thalami & the commencement of the optic tracts by two narrower bands, the brachia posteriora. Pineal Gland or Conarium - Small conical reddish-grey body situated between the nates, retained in position by a fold of pia mater derived from the under surface of the velum interpositum, and connected with the remainder of the cerebrum by means of a few transverse fibres belonging to the posterior commissure, and also by means of its Peduncles - Two on each side : Anterior or Superior - Run forwards over upper & inner part of optic thalami to anterior crura of fornix, with which they unite. Posterior or Inferior - Descend vertically upon inner surface of optic thalami. The pineal gland consists of grey matter with a few white fibres, and is very- vascular. In its interior are ono or two small cavities, which sometimes com- municate with the 3rd ventricle, and which contain a transparent viscid fiuid «fe a small amount of sabulous matter termed the acervulus cerebri.