20 Peculiarities of Structure towards the Ora Serrata, & in the Pars Oiliaris. Towards the ora^ these peculiarities are—(1) the gradual thinning of the retina as a whol (2) the gradual disappearance of the principal or nervous elements, and (3) the relative increa of the connective tissue elements, & more particularly of the fibres of Miiller. Then come at the oruy a somewhat abrupt change, -which takes place in a zone of about of an inch breadth. All the structures of the retina (except the pigmentary layer, which is continued upo the ciliary processes), are replaced by the single layer of cells of the pars ciliaris. The layer of the rods & cones disappears first, the cones extending a little further tha the rods. The nerve-fibres & nerve-cells disappear next. The inner molecular layer continue a little further, but it is made up to a great extent of Miillerian fibres; it ends in a some what rounded margin. Further on, the two nuclear layers merge into one layer, which become continuous with the layer of cells of the pars ciliaris. The pars ciliaris consists of a single layer of cells—columnar, striated, or finely granula with a clear oval nucleus in their outer part, near the pigmentary layer. These cells are first of a considerable height, but they soon become much shorter. What their real nature is, a question which has given rise to much discussion. By Kolliker they are considered to corre spend to the larger cells which form the bases or feet of the Miillerian fibres, and which giv( rise, by their union with each other, to the membrana limitans interna. Schultze inclines favour of this view. Schwalbe, on the contrary, opposes it on the strength of his belief that! the membrana limitans interna is not formed by any part of the Miillerian fibres, and that is furtha* prolonged upon the pars ciliaris. The inner end of these cells varies a good dea in shape; it may be rounded, pointed, square, branched, etc. Their sides are sometimes pro longed into processes, from which delicate fibres are given off.