90 THE HIP-JOINT Is the typical enarthrodial articulation. j AETICULAR SURFACES: Acetabulum - Deep, hemispherical, further deepened in the fresh condition by t^e cotyloii & transverse ligaments. Looks downwards, outwards & forwards. Is divided into Incomplete Articular Ring - Broadest above & behind, and deficient below & in front. 1 Central Non-Abticular Depression - Continuous with cotyloid notch; lodges a mass c fat, which forms a bed for the round ligament; Head of Peraur - Forms nearly two-thirds of a sphere, and, in the normal position of th jimb, looks upwards, inwards & forwards. It presents a little below & behind it centre a small circular depression for attachment of ligamentum teres; near thi depression the cartilage is thicker than elsewhert; LIGAMENTS — Are: - Capsular - short & thick, especially above & in front; thinner & looser below & behind; some *^ times perforated beneath psoas. - It extends fron Outer lip of margin of acetabulum within two or three lines of the cotyloid ligament^ and, opposi the cotyloid notch, from transverse ligament edge of obturator foramen t Anterior intertrochanteric line in front; base of neck of femur, above; and, behind, to back of net of femur, within about half an inch from lesser trochanter 6^ posterior intertrochanteric lin IliO-Femoral or Accessory - A. thickened band closely connected with front of capsul which extends obliquely fro A nterior inferior spine of ilium to Lower part of anterior intertrochanteric line. There are also several other accessory bands, viz., one on the outer side of tl ilio-femoral termed the Ilio-trochanteric, one on the inner side of the ilio-femor; termed the Pubo-femoral; also a transverse band at the back of the join Round Ligament or Ligamentum Teres - laterarticular band about an inch long an of very variable strength & thickness, attached, on the one hand, • Depression a little below 6^ behind centre of head of femur, and on the other hand, dividing in two fasciculi, Margins of cotyloid notch', the two fasciculi blending with the transverse ligament. conveys a few vessels to head of femr Cotyloid - Incomplete fibro-cartilaginous ring triangular on section, presenting a base attach( to margin of acetabulum, and a sharp free edge which closely embraces head of fomr It is thickest above & behind, and deficient opposite the cotyloid notch, where it is CO tinued into the transverse ligament. It consists of closely interlaced oblique fibr arising from the difierent points of the rim of the boi Transverse - strong flattened band, a continuation of the foregoing, which extends from O] side of the cotyloid notch to the other, transforming it into a complete forame SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE — Invests whole of anterior surface & greater part of posterior su face of neck of femur, cotyloid ligament, mass of fat at bottom of acetabulum, & ligamentu teres. - It communicates sometimes through a small opening in the capsule with the bur beneath psoas & iliaci VASCULAR & NERVE SUPPLY — From obturator, sciatic & internal circumflex arteries, ai from great sciatic, obturator & accessory obturator nerv( MOVEMENTS — Are flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, rotation & circumduction. - Flexion is freer then extension: the thigh can be brought forwards till it touches the a domen, but it cannot be carried backwards to anything like the same extent. Flexion, in fai is scarcely interfered with by the posterior part of the capsule, which is thin & loose; exte sion, on the contary, is soon arrested by the ilio-femoral ligament and by the anterior ps of the capsule, which is short & thick Of the two lateral movements abduction is the freest; it is checked by the action of t pubo-femoral band. Adduction is checked mainly by the two limbs coming in contact, I also partly by the action of the ilio-trochanteric baud. When however flexion & adducti are combined, so that one limb passes in front of the other, the double movement may : carried very far; it is at last arrested, by the action of the round ligament. The round lig ment is also tensed when flexion & abduction are combined and carried to a consideral extent, and when the limb is rotated outwan Rotation inwards is freer than rotation outwards ( rotation being measured from the inti mediate position which the foot normally occupies in standing) ; this is partly due to t greater laxity of the capsule behind than in front, and partly also to the direction forwai both of the head of the femur & of the acetabulum. Rotation takes place round an imagina line extending from the head of the fomur to the centre of the knee-joint. - Circumduction, all other movements generally, is much less free in the hip than in the sholder-joi i The weight of the limb at the hip-joint is normally supported by atmospheric pressure In consequence of the complete exclusion of air from the joint through the accurate adap tion of the cotyloid & transverse ligaments to the head of the femur, the latter is firmly tained in the acetabulum even after all the soft parts around the joint have been divided; I air be allowed to penetrate into the joint through a perforation of the acetabulum fr t within, tie limb will immediately dr