78 ! ARTICULATIONS of the VERTEBRA. j The vertebrae are joined together by their bodies, articular processes, laminae, spinous processes I & transverse processei gQPIJJS — Form a series of amphiarthrodial articulations, and are joined together by: - ; Intervertebral Discs - Lenticular discs of fibro-cartilage firmly adherent to the Thin plates of cartilage^ which cover upper 6^ under surfaces of bodies of adjoining verfehrc They increase in thickness from above downwards, and form coUectivel about one-fourth of the length of the spine. They are thickest in front in the cei | vical & lumbar regions, behind in the dorsal region. Their cicumference i closely connected in front & behind to the anterior & posterior common ligaments' laterally they form part, in the dorsal region, of the articular cavities for tb' heads of the ribs, and give attachment to the interarticular costo-vertebral lig£ ments. - Their central part consists of a soft pulpy mass, which is a remnant ( the chorda dorsalis, and in which a small synovial cavity is found (Lushka Their outer half or more consists of alternate concentric laminae of fibrous tissr' & of cartilage, of which laminae the more superficial ones tend to bulge outward and the deeper ones to bulge inwards; the strands of the fibrous laminae ai' mainly oblique, and are inclined so as to cross each other in the adjacent lamim Anterior Common Ligament - Broad & strong band covering front of bodies, and e; rr r ' J. tOUdiug fro i Front of body of axis to Prominent margins of bodies of vertebras <Sr= intervertebral discs down to sacrum. Thickest in dorsal region, in median line, & opposite middle or conca^ part of the bodies. Its deepest fibres are short, and extend from one vertebra the adjoining one; its intermediate fibres extend over two or three vertebraB; i superficial ones over four or fiv Posterior Common Ligament - strong band, thicker but narrower than foregoing, e Back of body of axis, where it is continuous with occipito-axoid ligament, to ^^^'^^'^o ^"^^ Intervertebral discs margins of the vertebrcz down to the saci'iim. Broadest in the neck, where it covers almost entirely the bodies of the verf brae, but, in the dorsal & lumbar regions, broad at its points of attachment on and narrow opposite the centre of the bodies. Separated from central part bodies by the venae basis vertebrae, and from the dura mater of the cord, by little loose connective tissue. Consists, as foregoing, of long superficial & of sh( deep fibr ARTICULAK PROCESSES — Form a series of arthrodial articulations, and are joined i gecher Capsular Ligaments - Thin, irregular, looser in the cervical than in the dorsal & lumt regions. Connect! Contigtious margins of the articular processes^ - of which processes the superior ones Ic backwards & upwards in the cervical region, backwards & outwards in the dors backwards & inwards in the lumbar, where they are concave & farther ap:' than the inferior on LAMINiE — -^^e joined together by the Ligamenta Subflava - Highly elastic bands placed, one on each side, between the a . ^ . r c , t J JTj ' t i.. joining laminae, and extending fr( A nterior surface lower border of lamina above to Posterior surface dr» upper border of lamina below. They are made up of nearly vertical bands of yellow elastic fibrous tissue, a are best seen from interior of spinal canal. They are thin, broad & long in \ cervical region, thicker, shorter & narrower in the dorsal region, thickest narrowes: in the lumb SPINOUS PROCESSES — Are joined together by: Interspinous Ligaments - Most developed in lumbar region, least in cervical. Conn Adjacent margins of adjoining spines. Supraspinous Ligament - strong fibrous cord intimately blended with neighbouri aponeuroses, and thickest in lumbar region. Conne Apices of spines from 1th cervical to sacrum. It consists of long superficial & of short deep fibres, and is continued upwai by the ligamentum nuchce to the external occipital protuberance & to the spines the six upper cervical vertebrae; the ligamentum nuchae is however relatively t in man, in whom it is reduced to a kind of intermuscular septi TRANSVERSE PROCESSES — Are joined together by the Intertransverse Ligaments - Most developed in the dorsalregion, where they fc short rounded cords connected with the deep muscles of the back. Thin & m( branous in the lumbar region. Insignificant or wanting in the cervical rei?i r r- . . Com Adjacent margins of adjoining transverse processes. N. — See next Tablet for articulations of the two first vertebrae.