168 BKAOHIAL ARTERY i i i i 1 Commences at lower border of tendons of teres major & latissimus dorsi. | Down inner & anterior aspects of arm in groove along inner border of coraco-bracliialis & biceps, lying at first on inner side, and then in front of, humerus,- its more precise I direction being marked by a line drawn from outer side of axilla to midway between condyles of humerus Divides into radial & ulnar half an inch below bend of elbow, or opposite neck of radius. RELATIONS ALONG THE ARM: ; In front - Skin and fascia, inner border of coraco-brachialis & biceps; mediad nerve.'! Behind - Long and inner heads of triceps, superior profunda artery & musculo-i spiral nerve; coraco-brachialis, brachialis anticu-s,' On Inner Side - Skin & fascia, internal cutaneous nerve, basilic vein; ulnar nervei in upper part, median nerve in lower part,] On Outer Side - Coraco-brachialis & biceps, humerus in upper part. AT BEND OF ELBOW: In front - Skin, superficial fascia, median basilic vein, branches of anterioi division of internal cutaneous nerve; bicipital or semilunar fascia Behind - Brachialis anticus & elbow joint. On Inner Side - Pronator radii teres, median nerve. On Outer Side - Tendon of biceps, supinator longus, musculo-cutaneous & mus. culo-spiral nerves BRANCHES: Muscular — irregular, to coraco-brachialis, biceps & brachialis anticus. i Nutritious] — From near middle of artery. Enters nutrient canal near insertior of coraco-brachialis, and descends towards lower extremity of the bone Sup. Profunda — From upper part of artery. With musculo-spiral nerve ir groove of same name between inner & outer heads of triceps, and then between supinator longus & brachialis anticus, where joins with radial recurrent Gives ofi* muscular branches, and an articular branch to back of elbow joint which joins with interosseous & posterior ulnar recurrent, and with inferioi profunda or anastomotica magna Inf. Profunda — Small, from near middle of artery. With ulnar nerve through internal intermuscular septum, and then between inner condyle & olecranons anastomoses with posterior ulnar recurrent & anastomotica magna, Anastomotica Magna — From lower part. Through internal intermuscular septum, and round back of humerus forming an arch above olecranon fossa with articular branch of superior profunda. Joins with anterior & posterior ulnar recurrent & with inferior profunda.