22 383 THE VITREOUS BODY. Althougli, in the fresh condition, the vitreous body appears structureless, or very ne;} so, in hardened preparations a more or less distinct concentric lamellation can be perceive 1 the portion nearest the retina, which '^portion is also firmer than the more central part. . ( from this appearance it is conjectured that the peripheral portion of the vitreous body is divi i by exceedingly delicate membranes into flattened lamellse parallel to the surface, and inclu one within the other. A radial marking has also been observed in sections made transverse!; o the axis of the eyeball. Scattered throughout the vitreous body are a variable number of corpuscles. Some j a off processes presenting bud-like enlargements like strings of pearls; others contain la j vacuoles by which their nucleus is pushed to one side; many are apparently white bl j corpuscles endowed with the power of amoeboid movement. [ The fluid part of the vitreous body consists of water with a little albuminate of sc. traces of mucin, and a small proportion of salts. A blind canal, the canalis hyaloideiis, or canal of Siilling, traverses the vitreous body fr the papilla optici to the back of the lens. It is a remnant of the canal which, in the foBi transmitted the branch of the arteria centralis retincR to ihe capsulo-ptipillary 7ne??ibrane. I about a line in diameter, but slightly widened behind, and is filled with a watery fluid. I best seen in the fresh eye. It may be injected by forcing a coloured solution under the f matral sheath of the optic nerve. The Hyaloid Membrane (Profs. Sharpey & Schafer^s Description).. The hyaloid membrane entirely invests the vitreous body, except in front, where it pasi forward to the anterior part of the circumference of the lens, forming the suspensory ligam, of the lens, or zonula of Zinn. The posterior part oE the hyaloid membrane, or hyaloid proper, is exceedingly thin a i apparently structureless; but against its inner surface are generally found what appear to b ll few migrated white blood corpuscles capable of amoeboid movement. This part of the me il brane is adherent to the retina near the point of entrance of the optic nerve, at which poin ij few retinal vessels entered the hyaloid during foetal life; elsewhere it may readily tl detached, when it usually becomes thrown into folds. I The more anterior part, that which forms the zonula of Zinn, is strengthened | numerous radiating fibres apparently intermediate in character between the elastic & wh fibrous varieties (Schwalbe), which fibres commence opposite the oraserrata. This part furth f presents small radiating folds, the processus ciliares zonula, which fit into the intervals of t i ciliary processes of the choroid, and to which a little of the retinal pigment commonly remai j! attached. Quite in front, i.e., between the ciliary processes and the margin of the lens, the hyalo membrane again becomes smooth. It is here that it forms part of the posterior boundary the aqueous chamber, and also of the anteinor boundary of the so-called canal of Petit. Tl so-called canal of Petit is a zonular space triangular on section comprised between the hyalo \ membrane, the vitreous body, & the circumference of the lens. During life, it is believed to i 1 very limited in its extent, or even not to exist, the vitreous body normally reaching, or extendir i very near to, the point of attachment of the hyaloid to the anterior lamella of the capsule : the lens. The Hyaloid Membrane (DifFerent Vieyys of Henle, Iwanoff & others). The vitreous body is not, as has hitherto been generally admitted, surrounded by f special membrane, the so-called memhra^ia Jiyaloidea. This membrane is identical with ti| vievihrana li?nitans interna of the retina. It is a constituent part of the retina, and is applied ■. the vitreous body only as far as the retina extends, that is as far as the ora serrata. From th; point, the membrana limitans becomes continuous with the pa7's ciliaris retincB, which latter i separated from the vitreous body by meridianally running fibres. Henle, who demonstrated tli non-existence of any distinct " hyaloid membrane," gave to the membrana limitans interna <j the retina the name of mcir.hrana limitans Jiyaloidea.