92 KNEE-JOINT-2ncl Tablet. INTERARTICULAR SEMILUNAR PIBRO-CARTILAGES May be considered as forming' part of the articular surfaces: - They increase the ext & depth of the tibial sockets, whose form they also modify in adaptation to the dif ent curves of the several parts of the femoral condyles; they are everywhere inves by the synovial membrane, except along their convex border. - Each one presei Under Surface - Flat; rests upon head of tibia. Upper Surface - Concave; supports condyle of femur. Concave Border - Thin, free. Convex Border - Thick, blended with capsule (especially in the case of the internal oi attached to head of tibia by numerous short vertical bands forming the coro) i ligaments^ and connected anteriorly to convex border of its fellow by a thi t variable transverse band, the transverse ligav ';. Anterior Extremity - Thin & pointed in the case of the internal one, coarselj . brous, attached to small pits on rough triangular depression in front of spin f tibia, fAe anterior extre77iity of the internal semilunar fibro-cartilage lying in j t to the inner side of, and the anterior extremity of the external semilunar fi ■ cartilage lying behind 6^ to the outer side of the tibial attachment of the ant 'r crucial M^dim . Posterior Extremity - Thickest & broadest in the case of the internal one, also coar f fibrous, attached to small pits on rough triangular depression behind the sj i, the posterior extre77iity of the internal semilunar fibro-cartilage lying behind i • nally to the posterior ext7'e7nity of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage, and bot f them lying in front of the tibial attachment of the posterior crucial ligan t. INTERNAL SEMILUNAR FIBRO-CARTILAGE - Is narrower & i e elongated than the external one, and covers a smaller portion of the coi i« ponding articular surface of the tibia. It embraces by its anterior & post* ir extremities, the anterior & posterior extremities of the external semilunar £ )• cartilage. Its convex border is blended with the capsule along nearly le whole of its ex t. EXTERNAL SEMILUNAR FIBRO-CARTILAGE — Is broader & more r. cular than the internal one, and covers a larger portion of the correspon g articular surface of the tibia. Its anterior & posterior extremities are embr d by the anterior & posterior extremities of the internal semilunar fibro-carti e. Its anterior extremity is blended with the anterior crucial ligament. Its «• terior extremity gives off three processes, of which two are attached to le inner tuberosity of the tibia in front of & behind the posterior crucial ligan t, while the third one passes up with this ligament to be attached with it to le inner condyle of the femur. Its convex border is less extensively conne id with the capsule than that of the internal one, for, on the one hand, its extr i- ties lie in the centre of the joint, and, on the other hand, the tendon of the p i- teu3 intervenes between it & the capsule at its outer & back I