15] JKANCHES of the INTERNAL MAXILLARY. Tympanic - Throngli Glaserian fissure to tympanum, where joins with stylo-mastoid. Middle or Great Meningeal - Through foramen spinosum, and divides into: Anterior Branch - Across great wing of sphenoid to groove or canal on anterior inferior angle of parietal, and divides into numerous branches to dura mater & skull. Posterior Branch - Crosses squamous portion of temporal bone, and divides into similar branches. Gives twigs to facial nerve through hiatus Fallopii, which twigs join with stylo-mastoid. Small Meningeal - Arises frequently from preceding; through foramen ovale to dura mater of middle fossa. Inferior Dental - With inferior dental nerve, similarly dividing opposite first bicuspid tooth into incisor & mental branches^ and likewise giving off Mylo-hyoid branch - Along mylo-hyoid groove to mylo-hyoid muscle. Deep Temporal - Two, anterior and posterior. Ascend between temporal muscle & pericranium. Pterygoid - Vary in number and precise mode of origin. Masseteric - Through sigmoid notch to masseter. Buccal - Forwards upon buccinator to structures of cheek, joining with facial. Alveolar - Descends upon tuberosity of superior maxilla, and divides into numerous branches to molar teeth, gums & lining membrane of antrum. Infraorbital - Through infraorbital canal with superior maxillary nerve. Sends small twigs into orbit, and others to front teeth through canals in anterior wall of antrum, and divides beneath levator labii superioris into: Ascending branches - To inner angle of eye, where they join with nasal j Descending branches-^ow^'QQvYv^l join with transverse facial, superior coronary & buccal. Vidian - With vidian nerve through vidian canal to upper part of pharynx & Eustachian tube; gives a twig to tympanum. PterygO-Palatine - With pharyngeal or pterygo-palatine nerve through pterygo-palatine canal to upper part of pharynx & Eustachian tube. Superior or Descending Palatine -= Descends with anterior or great palatine nerve through posterior palatine canal, sending twigs to soft palate. Forwards in groove on hard palate, giving twigs to mucous membrane & gums, and ascends through incisor foramen to join artery of septum. Nasal or Spheno-Palatine - Through spheno-palatine foramen with superior nasal & naso- palatine nerves, and divides into : Internal Branch or Artery of Septum - Downwards «& forwards along septum, and joins with termination of descending palatine. ExTEENAL Branches - Two or three to mucoua membrane of outer wall of nose, and to ethmoidal & sphenoidal cells & Antrum.