301 ?HE CESOPHAGUS Commences in middle line of neck opposite 5th cervical vertebra & lower border of cricoid cartilage. Downwards & to the left behind trachea, left lobe of thyroid gland & left recurrent laryngeal nerve, coming into close contact with left common carotid. Downwards & to the right behind lower end of trachea & commencement of left bronchus, and between arch of aorta & thoracic duct on the left & the vena azygos major on the right, regaining middle line opposite 5th dorsal vertebra. Again to the left between heart & pericardium in front and lower part of thoracic aorta be- hind, being surrounded by the pneumogastrics, which tend, the left one to the front, the right one to the back. Through oesophageal opening of diaphragm, and opens into stomach (cardiac or oesophageal opening) opposite 9th dorsal vertebra. Is from 9 to 10 inches long, STRUCTURE. Three coats • Muscular Coat - Thicker than in any other part of intestinal canal except lower end of rectum; red above, where it consists of striped muscular fibres, pale below, where it is made up mainly of plain fibres. These fibres are: External Longitudinal - Above they form three fasciculi: One anterior - From ridge on back of cricoid cartilage ; Two Lateral - From sides of cricoid cartilage, blending with inferior constrictor. Below they form a uniform layer, and become continuous with longitudi- nal fibres of muscular coat of stomach. - One or two bundles of fibres are sometimes inserted into the left pleura & left bronchus (Hyrtl). Internal Circular - Form rather oblique rings towards middle of oesophagus, but horizontal rings above & below; these rings are continuous inferiorly with circular & oblique fibres of stomach. Cellular Coat - Forms a loose connection between muscular & mucous coats. Mucous Membrane - Thick, pale, covered with a thick layer of squamous epithelium, thrown into longitudinal folds except during passage of food. Presents a few papillae, and some small compound racemose glands which are especially abun- dant at lower part. Vessels & Nerves - Arteries, four or five of good size from thoracic aorta, and twigs from inferior thyroid, phrenic & coronaria ventriculi. - Veins open mainly into yena azygos major. - Lymphatics, into posterior mediastinal glands. - Nerves from pneumogastrics & sympathetic.