353 THE APPENDAGES of the UTERUS Are tlie round ligarnent, iha Fallopinn tnbe, and the ovary & its lij^ameat, which lie, m Iho above-mentioned order from before backwards, in the broad h'gamont of the uterus, the Fallopian tube occupying the free margin of that ligament. B itwcen the ovary & the Fallopian tube is also the organ of Rosenmiiller. Hound Ligament - Commences at superior angle of uteras, passes? outwards & forwards between folds of broad ligament below & in front of Fallopian tube, traverses inguinal canal, and become^; lost in corresponding labium major. It contains a few muscular fibres prolonged from the uterus, & a few twigs from the ovarian arteries. In the foetus a tubular process of peritoneum, the canal of Nuck, accompanies it in the inguinal canal; but this process is generally obliterated in the adult. Fallopian Tube, or Oviduct - Oommenceg at superior angle of uterus b/ a very minute opening, the ostium intemtwi, and its canal remains very narrow along inner half of the tube. Passing outwards in free margin of broad ligament, and then curving downwards & backwards towards ovary, it gradually expands Into a wide trumpet-shaped extremity (fimbriated extremity or viorsus diaboli)^ surrounded by a series of fringe-like processes, the fimbricBy one of which is attached to the outer end of the ovary; the opening of which extremity, termed the ostiwn abdominale, is, however, somewhat contracted, - In structure it presents: Serous Coat. Muscular Coat - Consists of external longitudinal & internal circular fibres derived from the uterus. Mucous Coat - Covered with columnar ciliated epithelium, and thrown into numerous longitudinal folds, which folds are thick & broad in the outer & wider part of the tube, and narrower & broken up into delicate ar- borescent processes in the inner & narrow part. This coat is continuous externally with the peritoneum. Ovary - Vide nexb Tablet. Ligament of the Ovary - Rounded bundle of fibrous tissue & muscular fibres, the latter derived from the uterus, extending from superior angle of latter organ to inner extremity of ovary. Organ of Rosenmiiller or Parovarium - A group of closed tubules lined with epi- thelium, scatttTed ti ansvei sely in broad ligament of uterus between Fallopian tube & ovary, and connected together externally by a larger vertical tube, which descends for some distance alon^ side of uterus. Is probably a rem- nant of the Wolffian body. A.