64 MUSCLES ATTACHED to SPINE—1st Tablet. j The muscles attached to tne ! I ATXjAS — -A.re nine in number, and are attached as follows : - | Longus Colli {Superior Obliqic^ Portion) - Tubercle on anterior arch. , Rectus Capitis Anticus Minor - Front of the lateral mass, and root of transverse prooes Rectus Lateralis - Uoper surface of transverse process. Rectus Capitis Posticus Minor - Tubercle on posterior arch. First Intertransversales - Under surface of transverse process. Levator Anguli Scapulce - Tip of transverse process. Splenitis Colli - « Obliqui Capitis Superior Inferior - „ AXIS — -A-^Q ten in number, and are attached as follows: - ' Longus Colli {Vertical Portion) -Yront o^hodij. j Scalenus Medius - Tip of transverse process. | Levator Anguli Scapula - „ Splenitis Colli - First Second Infertransversales - Upper & lower borders of transverse process. Multifidus Spince - Tip of spinous process. Rectus Capitis Posticus Major - „ . j Obliquus Capitis Inferior - „ } First Interspinals ~ Both Hps of lower border of spinous process. FIVE LOWER CERVICAL VERTEBR.^ — Are twenty in number, and are attach as follows Scalenus Anticus - Anterior tubercles of transverse processes of 3rd, 4fcb, 5th, & 6th. Rectus Capitis Anticus Major - „ „ „ Longus Colli {Superior Oblique Portion)- Knt. tubercles of transv. processes of 3rd, 4th, & 5i -Anterior tubercles of transverse processesof 5th&6l (Vertical Portion) - Front of bodies of 5th, 6th, & 7th. Levator Anguli Scapulce - Posterior tubercles of transverse processes, 3rd, 4th, & 5th. Cervicalis Ascendens - Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of 4th, 5fch, & 6th. Scalenus Medius - Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of all the five lower. Transversalis Colli - „ „ ., Complexus - Transverse process of 7tb, articular processes of the three or four v. abo^ Infertransversales - Transverse processes of all the five lower. Trachclo-Mastoid - Articular processes of the three or four lower. Multifidus Spince - Articular processes of the four lower, spinous processes & adjoi ing portion of the laminas of all the five lowt Semispinales Dorsi - Spinous processes of the the 6th & 7th. Semispinales Colli - Spinous processes from the axis to the 5th. Spinalis Colli - Spinous processes of the one or two last cervical, and of the axis & of o or two vertebr39 belc Supraspinales - Spinous processes of all the five lower. Jnterspinales ~ » j, Trapezius - Spinous process of the 7th. Rhomboideus Minor - „ Splenius - ' Serratus Posticus Superior - „