THE LAEYNX —4th Tablet. CARTILAGES — Nine; three single, three pairs: - THYKOID — The largest. Consists of two quadrilateral plates or ala joined in front at an acute angle, the highest & most prominent part of whioh angle is termed the Outer Surface - Presents on either side the pomum Adami. Presents: Obixque Line - For sterno-thyroid & thyro-hyoid \ passes obliquely downwards & for- wards from tubercle near root of superior cornu. The surface behind gives attachment to inferior constrictor. Inner Surface - Covered by mucous membrane externally & above. Presents in middle line the Receding Angle - To which are attached the true & the false vocal cords, the thyro- arytaenoidei & -epiglottidei muscles, and the thyro-epiglottio ligament & apex of the epiglottis. Upper Border - Deeply notched opposite pomum Adami, rounded & prominent on either side of notch, concave laterally; gives attach, to thyro-hyoid membr. Lower Border - Shorter, straighter, connected to cricoid cartilage by crico-thyroid membrane & muscle. Posterior Border - Thick & rounded; gives attachment to stylo- & palato.pharyngei, and is prolonged upwards & downwards respectively into the Superior Cornu - Long, narrow; points upwards, backwards & inwards, and gives attachment to lateral thyro-hyoid ligament. Inferior Cornu - Shorter & thicker; points downwards forwards & inwards, and presents internally a small facet for articulation with cricoid cartilage. CRICOID — Annular in shape, broad behind, narrow in front; thicker & stronger, but smaller than foregoing. Presents: Outer Surface - Gives attachment in front & at sides to crico-thyroideus & inferior con- strictor ; and then presents on either side from before backwards: Tubercle - Surmounted by an articular facet, for articulation with lesser cornua of thy- BroadRough Depression -For attachment of crico-arytaenoideus posticus^ ^oid cartilage; Median Vertical Ridge - For attachment of longitudinal fibres of oesophagus. Inner Surface - Smooth, lined with mucous membrane of larynx. Upper Border - inclined downwards & forwards. Gives attachment in front & at sides to crico-thyroid membrane & crico-arytaenoideus lateralis, and presents at its posterior & highest part, on either side of a slight median notch, two small oval facets for articulation with arytaenoid cartilages. Lower Border - Horizontal; connected to first cartilaginous ring of trachea by fibrous membrane of that canal. AHYTiEjNOID — Two, small, pyramidal. Rest upon posterior & highest part of upper bor- der of cricoid cartilage, and present: Anterior Surface - Convex, rough ; gives attachment to false vocal cord & upper fasci- Posterior Surface-Excavated for attach.of arytseaoideus. cuius of thyro-arytaenoideus. Internal Surface - The narrowest, flattened, covered with mucous membrane. Base - Broad. Presents a smooth concave facet for articulation with cricoid cartilage, and three angles, of which angles two aire prominent & important, viz., Antero-Inttrnal Angle - Long & pointed; gives attachment to true vocal cord & to lower fasciculus of thyro-arytaenoideus. Postero-Ext. Angle - Short & rounded; gives attach, to the crico-arytaenoidei lateralis & Apex - Pointed, curved backwards & inwards; articulates on either side with the posticus. CORNICULA LARYNGIS or CARTILAGES of SANTORINI - Two small conical nodules of yellow elastic cartilage sometimes joined to apices of arytaenoid cartilages, which apices they prolong backwards & inwards. CUNEIFORM CARTILAGES or CARTILAGES of WRISBERG-Two small rods of yellow elastic cartilage directed upwards & outwards in free border of arytaeno- epiglottidean folds a little in front of arytaenoid cartilages; their anterior ex- tremity is slightly enlarged. EPIGLOTTIS — Median lamella of yellow elastic cartilage in the form of a leaf with the stalk below, and the lamina or expanded part above. Presents: Apex - Long & narrow; attached by thyro-epiglottio ligament to upper part of receding Base - Broad, rounded, free. angle of thyroid cartilage. Anterior Surface - Free in its upper part, where it curves forwards towards base of tongue, to which it is connected by the three glosso-epiglottic folds; ad- herent below, where it is attached by hyo-epiglottic ligament to upper bor- der of hyoid bone. Posterior Surface - Free, smooth, concave from side to side, convex from above down- wards. Covers superior aperture of larynx during second act of deglutition, and is studded with numerous small pits for the reception of mucous glaade. Lateral Margins - Convex, directed backwards j connected to arytaenoid cartilages by . .. . the arytseno-epiglottidewa folds*