112 MUSCLES of UPPER LIMB-3rd Tablet. ! MUSCLES of FRONT of FOREARM. | SUPERFICIAL LAYER. Pronator Radii Teres. Large or Superficial Head - Inner condyle & inner border of humerus im-! mediately above it, deep fascia of forearm, intermuscular septum between it & flexor carpi radialis. Small or Deep Head - Ridge on inner surface of coronoid process of ulna i below flexor sublimis digitorum. Rough impression on middle of outer surface of shaft of radius. -i S. by median nerve. I Flexor Carpi Radialis - Inner condyle by common tendon; deep fascia; in-1 termuscular septa on either side. Front of base of 2nd metacarpal bone, & slightly into that of 3rd. - S. by median nerve. Palmaris LongUS - inner condyle by common tendon; deep fascia; inter, muscular septa on either side. Anterior annular ligament of carpus and palmar fascia. - S. by median nerve. Flexor Carpi Ulnaris. Anterior or Inner Head - Inner condyle by common tendon ; deep fascia; intermuscular septum between it & palmaris longus. Posterior or Outer Head - Inner border of olecranon, and by an aponeurosif which is common to it & to the flexor profundus, from upper two-thirds ol posterior border of shaft of ulna. Pisiform bone and slightly into annular ligament & base of 5tl: metacarpal bone. - S. by ulnar nerve. Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. Inner Head - Inner condyle by common tendon, and internal lateral liga ' ment of elbow-joint. Middle Head - Tubercle on inner surface of coronoid process of ulna abov( pronator radii teres. Outer Head ~ Oblique line on front of radius. Sides of second phalanges. - S. by median nerve. DEEP LAYER : Flexor Profundus Digitorum - Depression on inner side of coronoid procesi of ulna, upper two-thirds of anterior & inner surfaces, and, by an apon eurosis which is common to it & to flexor carpi ulnaris, from upper two thirds of posterior border of shaft of ulna; inner half of interosseou membrane. Bases of third phalanges. - S. partly by ulnar nerve, partly by an i terior interosseous branch of median nerve. Plexor Longus Pollicis - Upper two-thirds of anterior surface of shaft c \ radius; outer half of interosseous membrane; occasionally by a smalr slip from inner side of coronoid process. Base of last phalanx of thumb. -S. by anterior interosseous brancllj of median nerve. | Pronator Quadratus - Lower fourth of anterior surface & inner border oil ulna; aponeurosis which covers inner third of the muscle. I L^wer fourth of anterior surface & outer border of radius. - S. b 1 anterio? interosseous branch of median nerve.