268 INTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE. The larger of the two terminal branches of great sciatic. Through middle of popliteal space to lower border of popliteus, where it becomes posted tibii Is first superficial & external and at a distance from, then superficial & internal and old to, popliteal vessels. - Its branches ai Articular - Threej accompany the two internal & the azygos articuk arteries to knee-joi^ Muscular - To gastrocnemius, plantaris, popliteus, soleus. Comniunicans Tibialis - Between heads of gastrocnemius to middle! back of leg, where it pierces deep fascia and joins communicai fibularis to form ii External Saphenous Nerve - Behind outer malleolus with extern saphenous vein, and supplies integument of outer side offii & little toe; joins with musculo-cutaneous. Is sometin larger than usual, and then supplies both sides of little t and outer side of 4 POSTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE. Commences at lower border of popliteus. Beneath arch of soleus, superficial muscles, & deep layer of fascia to interval I tween inner malleolus & heel, where it divides into internal & external plantii Is first internal & posterior to posterior tibial vessels, but soon passes to th( outer side. - Its branches at Muscular flexor longus pollicis, flexor longus digitorum, tibialis postiori Plantar Cutaneous - Perforates internal annular ligament to integume| of heel & inner part of sole of fO( Internal Plantar Nerve - The larger. With internal plantar artery between abdn tor pollicis & flexor brevis digitorum, and divides into four digit branches to 3| toes on inner side of foot. Supplies flexor bre? digitorum, abductor & flexor brevis pollicis, two inner lumbricale integument of sole of foot & articulations of tarsus; joins wi) external plants External Plantar Nerve - The smaller. with external plantar artery betwee flexors accessorius & brevis, and then between flexor brevis &ai ductor minimi digiti; supplies the first & the last of thei muscles, and divides int( Superficial Bkanch - Supplies 1^ toes on outer side of foot, flexor breT minimi digiti & interossei of 4th space; joins with internil plants' Deep Branch - Accompanies plantar arch; supplies remaining interossei j lumbricales, adductor pollicis, & transversus pedij