333 STRUCTURE of the KIDNEY. Fibrous Capsule - Thin, smooth & firm, but easily torn off Medullary Substance - Dense, dark, striated, collected into from 8 to 18 pyramids of MalpighU the apices of which terminate in the calicos by rounded eminences, the papillce. - Is formed by the straight tubuli nriniferi or tubes of Bellini, and by the looped tubes of Henle. Cortical Substance - The three-fourths of the gland. Soft, reddish, granular; sends prolonga- tions inwards between the pyramids. - Is formed by the tubuli contorti & the Malpighian corpuscles, and also, near the bases of the pyramids, by the prolongations of the tubes of Bellini termed tubes of Ferrein. Intertubular Stroma - Most abundant in cortical substance & in young subjects, and much more abundant in the lower animals than in man. Is nearly homogeneous, and contains but a few Vessels & Nerves - Vide below. [nuclei & connective tissue corpuscles. TUBULI URINIFERI. Commence in the capstdes of the Malpighian corpuscles^ and constitute in succession the tubuli con- torti^ the looped tubes of Henle ^ 2bX\dL the straight tubes of Bellini^ which two latter systems of tubes are joined together here & there by larger convoluted tubes of junction (Sohweigger-Seidel), and perhaps also by a system of small anastomosing tubules with occasional blind diverticula (Chrzonsz- czewsky). - They are all formed of a homogeneous basement membrane lined with a thick layer of spheroidal epithelium. MALPIGHIAN CORPUSCLES - Small rounded bodies about -j-i^ of an inch in diameter, disposed in double rows between the pyramids of Ferrein, among the convoluted tubes of the cortical subs- tance. Consist of a vascular tuft, plexus or glomerulus enclosed in a dilatation always terminal in mammals of a uriniferous tube, and formed by an afferent artery & by an efferent vessel, which latter is not a vein, for it breaks up again into a capillary network round the tubes of the cortical substance. The glomerulus haugs naked in the Malpighian corpuscle (Bowman), or is covered by a thin layer only of epithelium. CONVOLUTED TUBES or TUBULI CONTORTI - Form the greater part of the cortical substance, and the whole of its outer portion. They are continuous on the one side with the capsules of the Malpighian corpuscles, and on tht other, not, as was believed until lately, with the straight tubes of the medullary substance, but with the looped tubes of Henle. Their diameter is of an inch. LOOPED TUBES of HENLE - Have been described of late years only, and it is but very recently that their true connections have been made out. - They are the continuation of the tubuli contorti of the cortical substance. They descend a variable distance in the substance of the pyramids between the straight tubes or tubes of Bellini, and then turn up abruptly & reascend to the bases, or to near the bases of the pyramids. Here they open into the tubes of Bellini, either directly, or through the intervention of larger convoluted tubes of junction (Scheigger-Seidel), and perhaps also of a system of small anastomosing tubules with occasional blind diverticula (Chrzonszczewsky). - Their diameter is but about J or | of that of the straight tubes, while their walls are rather thicker. STRAIGHT URINIFEROUS TUBES or TUBES OF BELLINI — Form the greater part of the py- ramids of Malpigi, and also, under the name of tubes of Ferrein, a portion of the central part of the cortical substance. They are not, as was believed up to very recently, the continuation of the tubuli contorti, their only connection with these tubes being through the looped tubes of Henle. - They open on the apices of the pyramids by minute orifices about 1,000 in number, and, if traced from this point, are seen to pass up towards the sides & bases of the pyramids in slightly diverging lines, biturcating again & again at very acute angles. Greatly increased in number, but diminished in size from of an inch, their diameter at the apices of the pyramids, to of an inch, they then pass, under the name of tubes of Ferrein, into the cortical substance, where they are at first collected into small diverging bundles, the pyramids of Ferrein. Near the bases of the pyramids they are believed to anastomose loopwise with each other, and again to course inwards. The tubes of Henle open into them at different points of their course, either fdirectly or indirectly, as above explained. VESSELS & NERVES. Renal Artery - Divides just before entering the sinus into four or five branches, the subdivi- sions of which pass up between the pyramids as far as their bases, and then form a series of anastomotic arches between the medullary & the cortical substances. From these arches smaller branches ascend between the double rows of Malpighian corpuscles, giving oft' to each corpuscle its afferent artery. The efferent vessel leaves the corpuscle in close vicinity to the afferent ar- tery, and again breaks up, in the cortical substance, into capillary meshes, which are rounded among the convoluted tubes and elongated among the tubes of Ferrein; branches to the cap- sule of the kidney join freely with twigs from the lumbar arteries. The arteries of the medullary portion are derived either Irom the foregoing capillaries, or from the arches at the base of the pyramids; they pass down between the straight tubes, breaking up into capillaries and joining in anastomotic loops. - Renal Vein. Its radicles have a stellate arrangement on the surface of the organ; they then pass down to the bases of the pyramids, where they form anastomotic arches, and are joined by the veins of the medullary substance. The larger branches descend between the pyramids to the sinus. - Lymphatics. Superficial &i deep, most abundant in the cor- tical substance, where they form freely communicating lymphatic spaces; they open into the lumbar glands. - Nerves. Derived from renal plexus & from lesser splanchnio nerves; contain filaments both from sympathetic & from oerebro-spinal systems. Their precise mode of termina- tion is noi know?"