230 GREY MATTER of the CEREBELLUM. (DR. GOWERS' NEW DESCRIPTION.) The description of the Grey Matter of the Cerebellum given by Dr. Govvers in the 8' edition of Quain's Anatomy differs fiom the hitherto received descriptions mainly in tv points, namely, the greater importance given to tbe nuclei or granules, and the better de cription of the large pellucid cells, c r cells of Purkinje. These cells form a separate distinct layer between the inner & outer parts of the grey matter, which grey matter m.' therefore be divided into three layers, as follows : - Middle Layer - Cells of Purkinje - These are large cells, varying from gijj to-jJi of an inch in diameter, most abundant towards the apices of the lamellae, main flask-shaped, and disposed perpendicularly to the surface. They present a lar^ oval nucleolated nucleus. They give off hvo sets of processes^ the innner ones, & the outer ones. The innerp-ocesu's are short, delicate, & non-ramified. They dip into the inm or granule layer, and are probably continuous with the axis-cylinders of fibres the white substance. The outer processes are larger, granular or finely striated, & ramified. Some their ramifications are connected with the angular corpuscles, or caudate ner cells of the outer layer. Most of them appear however to be lost near the surfa^ of the organ. Some are said to turn backwards and to end on the granule layc possibly by joining with the radiating fibres of the white substance. Outer Layer - is of a clear grey coloux'. It contains granule-like bodies of various siz( the smaller of which are connective tissue corpuscles connected with a network connective tissue fibres. Others, larger, are caudate nucleated cells connect( with the outer pi'ocesses of the cells of Purkinje. Some appear to be similar the granules of the inner, or granule layer. These bodies lie in the midst of numerous fibres, most of which pass outwan towards the surface of the organ. Some of these fibres are connective tissue fibre as above stated; and these are joined by a broad basis to the pia-matral covem Others are the outer processes of tiae cells of Purkinje. Near these cells of Pu kinje are a few nerve fibres, which run parallel to the sux-face. Inner^ or Granule Layer - is of a reddish grey colour. It presents dense groups granule-like bodies, embedded in a gelatinous matrix, and varying in diamet from ^-jioo^ to ^-^^j^ of an inch ; the larger granules being somewhat less dense scattered round the cells of Purkinje. The granule layer also presents a fine flexus of nerve fibres running betwee the granules, and a few caudate nucleated cells with which these fibres are probabl connected. A few granules are met with i»i the outer portions of the central whil substance. (Dr. Gower's description is partly based upon the invesbigations of Mr. H. O. Sankey of University College.)