SURGICAL ANATOMY of INGUINAL HERNIA. Principal points of interest are the coverings of the hernia, and the relations of the neck of the sac & of the seat of stricture. - For the rest see "Inguinal Hernia" among Tablets on Surgery. COVERINGS — Differ in the oblique & direct forms, and are slightly modified also in thei congenital & infantile varieties of the former, and in the external & internal varieties! of the latter. They are as follows:— OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA Of the Adult From within Outwards : Pcritoneiuii^ subserous areolar tissue, infundibuliform fascia^ cremasteric fascia, inte^xolumnar fascia, superficial fascia, skin. From without Inwards : Skin, superficial fascia, inte7'columnar fascia, cremasteric fascia^ ] infundibuliform fascia, subserous areolar tissue, peritoneum. \ Congenital Variety - Descends directly into tunica vaginalis through pouch of peritoneum which accompanies cord & testis into scrotum, ; and which has abnormally remained tmclosed. Its coverings are tlia same as those of testicle: - Skin, dartos, intercohcmnar fascia, cremastetmM fascia, fascia propria, tunica vaginalis rcflexa. HI Infantile Variety - Descends into the still patent upper part of the imp^^ fcctly closed pouch of peritoneum, and becomes more or less completelpB invested, especially in front, by the posterior part,of the tunica vagin- * alis reflexa. Its coverings are the same as those of foregoing variety with two additional layers of peritoneu?n DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA Internal or Common Variety - (Protrudes through inner part of Hessel- 1 bach's triangle, on inner side of obliterated hypogastric artery). '\ Fkom within Outwards : Peritoneum, subserous areolar tissue, fascia transvei'salis (the 1 geneial f. tr., not the infundibuliform process) conjoined tendon i (or 7tot, since it is frequently ruptured instead of being pushed ' foYwSiV&B) infe?-columnar fascia, superficial fascia, skin. \ From without Inwards : Skin, superficial fascia, intercohcmnar fascia, conjoined tendon (or not), fascia transversalis, subsej'ous areolar tissue peritoneum. External Variety - (Protrudes through outer part of llesselbach's triangle, on outer side of obliterated hypogastric artery, & externally to the ■ conjoined tendon) - This exceptional form of inguinal hernia, passes . through a considerable portion of the inguinal canal, and greatly re- sembles the oblique hernia both by presenting a certain degree of ' obliquity and by having very nearly the same coverings; the covering j derived from the cremasteric fascia is alone rather less complete. RELATIONS OF NECK OF BAG & SEAT OF STRICTURE — The neck of the sac lies i IN OBLIQUE INGUINAL HEENIA - On otiter side of epigastric artery and in j frotit of spermatic cord, the elements of which may, however, be more or ! less scattered round the neck of the sac. j IN DIEECT INGUINAL HEENIA - On inner side of epigastric artery, in front j & slightly on inner side of spcrviatic cord. On account of the uncertainty of the diagnosis between the oblique & i direct hernias it is an accepted rule in surgery to divide a deep i seated stricture directly upzvards from middle of upper 7nargin of constricting ring, that is to say in the direction of the epigastric vessels.