300 THE SOFT PALATE. Musoulo-membranous fold, which forms an incomplete septum between the mouth a pharynx. Present i Anterior Surface - Concave; presents a median raph6, continuous with that of hard palat Posterior Surface - Convex, continuous with floor of nasal fossae j presents the median pi jection of the azygos uvulae. Upper Border - Attached to posterior border of hard palate. Lower Border - Free; presents the uvula and the anterior & posterior pillars, which t latter embrace the tonsil. ' ANTErioR PiLLAES - Downwards & forwards to sides of base of tongue j contain pala glossi muscles. Posterior Pillars - Downwards & backwards to sides of pharynx j contain pala pharyngei muscles Are rather broader and approach nearer to each otl than the anterior. Isthmus Faucium - Is the space bounded by the free border & pillars of the s palate, the tonsils, and the base of the tongue. STRUCTURE of the SOFT PALATE Presents for examination: APONEUROSIS — Blended with tendon of tensor palati. Is thickest above, whil it is attached to posterior border of hard palate. MUSCLES — Five on each side : Levator Palati - Under surface of apex of petrous portion of temporal M and outer aspect of cartilaginous portion of Eustachian tube. Posterior surface of soft palate between the two heads of origin j palato-pharyngeus. - S. by post, or small palatine branch from Meckell'sl Tensor or Circumflexus Palati - Scaphoid fossa at base of internal pte gold plate; spine of sphenoid j anterior aspect of cartilaginous port* Eustachian tube. Winds round hamular process and expands upon anterior surfr aponeurosis of soft palate. - S. by a branch from otic ganglion. Palato-glossUS -Anterior surface of soft palate. Posterior part of side of tongue, where it blends with stylo-glos Palato-pharyngeus - Posterior surface of soft palate by two heads sep" by the lerator palati. Posterior border of thyroid cartilage & sides of pharynx. Azygos UvulSB - Posterior nasal spine of palate bone & aponeurosis of 8 palate. Uvula. - S. by posterior or small palatine branch from Meckell's gaiil MUCOUS MEMBRANE — Thin; covered with squamous epithelium, except ne;* Eustachian tube, where the epithelium is columnar & ciliated. Numeroj mucous glands are found beneath it, especially over posterior surf^ceji uvula, in which latter situations they form a continuous layer. ^, - j VESSELS & NERVES — Arteries. Inferior or ascending palatine, posteriorji descending palatine, ascending pharyngeal, dorsalis linguae, tonsillar. i{ Veins. Join the tonsillar & pterygoid plexuses. - Lymphatics. To glaii ! beneath angle of jaw. - Nerves. From fifth, facial & gloaso-pharyngeal^j