93 InEE-JOINT-3rd Tablet. LIGAMENTS — Are the: - Anterior Ligament or Ligamentum Patellae - Strong flat band about three inches long, a continuation of tendon of rectus femoris, which extends from Apex of patella ^ rough depression below its articular surface to JLowerpart of tz(l>ercle of tidia, being sepsbmied from upper part of the tubercle by a small bursa. - It is separated from the synovial membrane of the knee- joint by a considerable mass of adipose tissue. Posterior Ligament - Consists of three portions (Cruveilhier, Gray) : - Central Portion or Ligamentum Posticum Winslowii (The only portion described either by Winslow, or by Heath, Quain, & many modern Authors) - Broad flat band partly derived from tendon of semimembranosus, and which extends obliquely from Back part of inner tuberosity of tibia to Upper 6^ back part of outer condyle of femur. Two Lateral Portions (Capsule Fibreuse des Condyles, Cruveilhier) - Closely connec- ted with tendons of gastrocnemius, popliteus, plantaris, and formed chiefly of vertical fibres extending from Condyles jicst above their articular surfaces to Back of head of tibia. - These lateral portions are looked upon by many anatomists as a part of the capsular ligament. Internal Lateral Ligament - Broad flat band from Back part of inner tuberosity of femur to Inner tuberosity 6^ tipper part of inner surface of shaft of tibia, - Covers anterior portion of tendon of semimembranosus & inferior internal articular vessels, and is covered by tendons of sartorius, gracilis & semitendinosus, a bursa being interposed. External Lateral Ligament - Consists of two portions: - Long External Lateral Ligament - Strong rounded cord from Back part of outer tuberosity of femur to Outer part of head of fibula. - It is embraced by the two fasciculi into which the ten- don of the biceps divides, and beneath it pass tendon of popliteus & inferior external articular vessels. Short External Lateral Ligament - Accessory & somewhat variable bundle of fibres intimately blended with capsule, lying behind foregoing & on outer side of tendon of popliteus, and extending from Lower back part of otcter tuberosity of femur to Apex of styloid process of fibula. Capsular Ligament - Lies in contact with the synovial membrane, and beneath the other ligaments, which it binds together. It is strengthened by expansions from the fascia lata and from the vasti, biceps, sartorius & semimembranosus; the ex- pansions from the fascia lata & the vasti forming, on either side of the patella, the so-called lateral patellar ligaments. It is attached to Femur just above the articular surfaces^ Upper border sides of patella ^ Margins of head of tibia cr^ semilunar fibrO'Cartilages. Crucial Ligaments-Two, project into the interior of the joint from behind, and cross each other obliquely like the bars of an X. Anterior Crucial Ligament - The most oblique & somewhat the smaller, from Inner part of rough triangular depression in front of spine of tibia between points of attach- ment of anterior extremities of both semilunar fibro-cartilages, and partly also from anterior extremity of the external settiilunar fibro-cartilage i:self to Inner &' back part of outer condyle offetnur. Posterior Crucial Ligament - The thickest & strongest. •Nearly vertically from Back part of rough depression behind spine of tibia, behind points of atlach?fient of posterior extremities of both semilunar fibro-cartilages, and partly from posterior extremity of external semilwiar fibro-cartilage itself to Anterior &> outer part of inner condyle of femur front of inter condyloid notch. Transverse & Coronary Ligaments-Vide preceding Tablet. Ligamentum Mucosum & Ligamenta Alaria - Vide next Tablet