BEANOHES of the INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY-2nd '. PUDIC ARTERY. The smaller of the two terminal branches of anterior division of internal iliao artery. Descends in front of pyriformis & sacral plexus, lying to the inner side & a little in f jit of sciatic I ery. With pudic nerve through lower part of great sacro-sciatic foramen below pyriformis or iiner side of sciatic nerves & sciatic ; j3ry. Winds round spine of ischium and re-enters pelvis through lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. Forwards along outer wall of ischio-rectal fossa below pudic nerve, being covered by obi ator fascia, and lying at first 1| inches above lower extremity of tuber ischii, but appro |iing surface as it prog jses. Pierces deep layer of deep perinaeal fascia, and ascends along pubic arch between tl two layers of that fascia to near symphysis ibis Pierces superficial layer of deep perinaeal fascia, and divides into artery of corpus caver |su and dorsal artery oi m BEANCHES: I Inferior HSBmorrlloidal - Two or three, small. - Arise in ischio-recta' )3sa, which they cross to lower part of rectum < nus, Superficial PerinSBal - Arises near transversus peringei muscle, which it sses super illy. Between accelerator urinse & erector penis to skin of scrotum & rtos, or of/jiani. Transverse Perinseal - Small, arises frequently from superficial perinaeal. j Inwards below transversus perinaei to structures between bulb an' l.nus. Artery of the Bulb - Large and surgically important. | Inwards to bulb & Cowper's glands between the two layers of deep p' aasal Scia. May be small or even absent, or may be double. May arise earl aid cross perinseum further back than usual, and would then 1 jvery liable to be divided in lateral lithotomy. May arise from an aC' sory pudic, and then lie more forward and be altogether out of iger- Artery of the Corpus Cavernosum - Pierces crus penis, and runs f( [ards in corpus cavernosum by side of septum pectir rme. Dorsal Artery of the Penis - Between crus and symphysis. Through sus sory ligament and forwards beneath skin on dorsum of penis to glans & i ^uce. ACCESSORY PUDIC ARTERY — Exceptional branch of internal iliac ^bich exists when pudic artery, being smaller than usual, fails to give oflf terminal branches & sometimes even the artery of tl bulb- Arises from near origin of pudic, passes forwards along base of bladder & upp par' of prostate, pierces triangular ligament, and takes the place of termn por- tion of normal teJ?-