332 THE KIDNEY Is situated in lumbar region behind peritoneum, and extends from 11th rib to near oreafc I ilium, right kidney lying a little lower than left oj i Presents : Ant. Surface - Convex, looking slightly outwards, covered at upper & outer part by peritoueu; and in relation wii On Right Side - Right lobe of liver, descending portion of duodenum, ascending col( | On Left Side - Tail of pancreas, lower end of spleen, descending colon. [M Post. Surface - Fiat j rests upon 11th & 12th ribs, crus of diaphragm, psoas magnus, and anter " lamella of aponeurosis of transversalis, which latter separates it from quadrat lumboru' Sup, Extremity - Thick, rounded, directed inwards, covered by suprarenal capsule. Corr ponds on left side to upper border, on right side to lower border, of 11th r Inf. Extremity - Smaller, flattened, directed outwards. Descends to near crest of ilium. Outer Border - Convex, directed backwards & slightly upwards. Inner Border - Concave, directed forwards & slightly downwards. Presents the h'hm, a IcI gitudinal fissure most marked behind, which leads into the sinuSf and contains fr( before backwards renal vein, renal artery & uret' The kidneys are subject to frequent VARIATIONS in: Form & Size - One or both being longer & narrower, or shorter & more rot ded; or one being more or less enlarged & the other proportionati diminishi Situation - One or both being situated lower down than usual, occasionai| in the peli-jl Number - There being but one kidney sometimes of a horse-shoe shape & sitifl ted in front of the vertebrae, or there being a supernumerary kidn!i| THE URETER. The excretory duct of the kidney commences in the CaliceSf - small tubes from 7 to 13 in number. Which embrace each of them one, or more papillae, and join to form Infundibular - larger tubes usually three in number, which join to form the Pelvis - funnel shaped dilatation of upper part of ureter compressed from befc backwards, and situated at lower & back part of hilu The ureter passes : Downwards & inwards upon psoas, beneath peritoneum & spermatic vessels, and, the right side, on right side of inferior vena cav Over common or external iliac artery, being covered by termination of ileum on t right side, by sigmoid flexure of colon, on the le Forwards &. inwards, - In the Male - In posterior false ligament of bladder, and on outer side of v deferens & below obliterated hypogastric artenj In the Female - In posterior ligament of uterus and over side of cervix ut(, & upper part of vagina j| to posterior angle of trigonum vesicse, passing obliquely throuij walls of bladder for about | of an im j It is from 16 to 18 inches long, and of about the diameter of a crow-quill. ! The calices, infundibula, pelvis & ureter are formed of fibrous, muscular & mucous coats. T ] muscular coat consists, in the greater part of the ureter, of two longitudii i layers comprising an intermediate circular onej the epithelium of the mucci| coat is spheroid J 1