115 IffUSOLES of the THORAX. IiZternal Intercostals - Eleven pairs. Downwards & forwards from lower border of eleven upper ribs to upper border of eleven lower ribs. Commence posteriorly at or near tubercle of each rib. In the six upper intercostal spaces they extend anteriorly to near outer^nd of costal cartilages; in three following spaces they are prolonged some distance between the cartila- ges ; in the two last spaces they extend to the end of the space. When not pro- longed to end of the space they are continued up to sternum by thin tendinous fibres having the same direction as the muscular fibres. Internal Intercostals - Eleven pairs. Upwards & forwards from upper border of eleven lower ribs to inner lip of groove on inner surface of each rib above, & to inner surface of costal cartilages. Commence anteriorly at anterior extremity of costal cartilages, being continuous, in the two lowest intercostal spaces with fibres of internal oblique. End posteriorly at or near angle of ribs, approaching nearest to spine in the upper & the lower spaces. SubCOStales or InfraCOStales - Upwards & forwards from inner surface of one rib to inner surface of first, second, or third rib above. Vary in size & number, and are most numerous between the lower ribs, and in the neighbourhood of their angles. Levatores Costarum or SupracOStales - Twelve. From tips of transverse pro. cesses of seventh cervical & eleven first dorsal vertebrae to upper rough border of rib below, between tubercle & angle, and, in the case of the few lower, to cor- responding part of the second rib below origin. Triangularis Sterni - Radiates from lower & lateral parts of posterior surface of sternum, and from ensiform cartilage & cartilages of three or four lower true ribs, to inner surface & lower border of cartilages of second, third, fourth, & fifth ribs, the lowest fibres being continuous with those of transversalis. Varies con- siderably in difierent bodies, and even on opposite sides of same body. K^CtUS Sternalis - An occasional prolongation, fleshy in middle & tendinous at both ends, of rectus abdominis in front of pectoralis major. Inserted superiorly into sternum in connection with tendon of sterno-mastoid j rarely present on both sides. N. — All these muscles are supplied by the intercostal nerves.