THE STRUCTURE of the RETINA. 13 The Retina should now be described as a nervous and pigmentary membrane. It is divisible into eight layers ; and the way in which eight layers are now comited, instead of the three hitherto recognised, is as follows:-On the outer aspect of the retina is first counted, as an additional layer, what used to be called the pigmentary layer of the choroid. Then what used to be called the " Middle or Granular Layer," instead of being divided into three strata, is now divided into four strata; and each stratum is counted as a separate layer. Further inwards, the two strata, which used to be called together the " Internal, or Nervous Layer," ie., the stratum of nerve-cells, and the stratum of nerve-fibres, are also counted now as tw^o separate layers. It should be added that the membrana limitans, which has hitherto been described as coverino- the inner surf ace of the retina, is now frequently described as forming one of the layers of this membrane; and that a second membrana limitans is sometimes de&oribed on the inner aspect of the layer of the rods and cones; the first membrana limitans is then called the membrana limitans interna^ and the latter one, the membrana limitans externa. This would bring the number of the layers of the retina to ten. Counting from within outwards, the eight layers generally recognised are :- (1) - Tke Layer of Nerve-fibres ; (2) - The Layer of Nerve-cells^ or Ganglionic Layer; (3) - The Lnner Molecular Layer; (4) - The Ln7ier Nuclear Layer ; (5) - The Outer Molecular Layer; (6) - The Outer Nuclear Layer ; (7) - The Cohwmar or Bacillary Layer^ or Layer of the Rods Cones ; (8) - The Pigjuentary Layer. Schuitze's View of the Nature & Connections of the Several Layers, """This view, whether absolutely correct or not, has at least the advantage of facilitating the comprehension of the facts, by binding them together into one general conception: It is given here as an introduction to the following & more precise histological description, by which it will have here & there to be corrected. This view may be summarised as follows: - " The Retina is the membranous expansion of the optic nerve." " Its principal elements are : - (1) - N'erve-fibres^ in the course of which are found (2) - Ordinary nerve-cells^ bipolar or multipolar, and also (3) - Variotisly modified nerve-cells, the so-called Internal &^ External Granules. The nerve-fibres break up into exceedingly delicate plexuses in two situations, namely, in the inner & the outer molecular layers; they end in (4) - Peculiar terminal organs, the Rods & Cones.'" " Its subordinate elements are : - (1) - A modified connective tissue (spongy connective tissue of Schultze). (2) - ^ layer of pigment-cells; (3) - Blood-vessels; (4) - Lyjnphatics.'' " The connexions of the principal, or nervous elements, are as follows" : - "The non-medullated fibres of the first or Nerve-pibre Layer are continued into the proximal offsets of the nerve-cells of the second or Ganglionic Layer." " The distal offsets of these nerve-cells, which are somewhat thicker than the proximal ones, enter the Inner Molecular Layer, where they break up into a first and exceedingly fine plexus of primitive nerve-fibrils." "In the next layer, or Inner Nuclear Layer, we see these nerve-fibrils (1) taking a more or less vertical course, either singly or in very fine bundles; (2) passing through modified bipolar nerve-cells, the inner granules (of which there is but one for each fibril or bundle of fibrils); and (3) becoming collected into relatively large bundles, which enter the following, or outer molecular layer." " In the Outer Molecular Layer, we find the relatively large bundles above mentioned breaking up into a second exceedingly fine plexus similar to the one already described as existing in the inner molecular layer." " In the next layer, or Outer Nuclear Layer, we foand an arrangement very similar to the one which prevails in the inner nuclear layer: - The nerve-fibrils are again collected into bundles, some relatively thick (cone-fibres), others much thinner (rod-fibres) ; all relatively thick, however, as compared with the bundles, or separate fibrils, which traverse the inner nuclear layer. Like these latter bundles, or separate fibrils, the bundles of the outer nuclear layer (].) take a more or less vertical course, (2) pass through a second set of modified bipolar nerve-cells, the granules (of which also there is but one for each bundle of fibrils), and (3) become coUectedinto relatively thick bandies (upper part of the cone-and rod-fibres). " Finally, in the Columnar or Bacillary Layer, or Layer of the Rods & Cones, we see the relatively thick bundles last named expanding into the lowei', homogeneous, or slightly granular, basal portion of the rods & cones."