220 UNDER SURFACE of the CEREBRUM Presents from before backwards | IN THE MEDIAN LINE: j Anterior part of the Longitudinal Fissure - Bounded behind by the anterioi ^ extremity or genu of the corpus callosuni Anterior Extremity or Genu of the Corpus Callosum - Curves down; V7ards and backwards. Its narrowing reflected portion, beak or rostrutr! is connected with the lamina cinerea, and gives off two white bundles, th i peduncles, which cross the anterior perforaced space to the eatrance cl the fissure of Sylvius; Lamina Cinerea - A. thin layer of grey substance stretching, above the optic com missure, with which it is connected, from the rostrum of the corpu: i callosum to the tuber cinereum, and continuous laterally with the gre, matter of the anterior perforated space". Optic Commissure or Chiasma with the Optic Tracts - Vide Optic Nerve Interpeduncular Space - Lozenge-shaped, comprised between the crura cerebt and the optic tracts, and containing from before backwards Tuber Cinereum with the Infundibulum & Pituitary Body - The former c which is a conical eminence of the grey matter of the floor of the 3ri i ventricle connected by a hollow infundibuliform process, the infundi j bulum, with the latter, which latter is a small reddish grey vascula mass divided into an anterior & a posterior lobe, and the natm-e c which, especially in its anterior lobe, is very similar according to Di Sharpey, to that of the ductless or vascular glands. It is proportiona tely larger in the foetus, and is then hollow, its cavity being continuou with that of the 3rd ventrick Corpora Albicantia - Two small round white bodies formed by the twistinj; upon themselves of the anterior crura of the fornix before they pas up to the optic thalam Posterior Perforated Space - Formed by a layer of grey substance, whic constitutes the posterior part of the floor of the 3rd ventricle and i continuous around the corpora albicantia with the base of the tube cinereum. It is perforated by numerous small foramina for th passage of blood vessels to the optic thalam-i Crura Cerebri-Vide Me socephalon. I LATERALLY: j Under Surface of the Frontal Lobe - Presenting internally the lower end c| the marginal convolution, on the outer side of which is the olfactor ! sulcus containing the olfactory nerve and bull' Anterior Perforated Space -Formed by a layer of grey substance correspon- ding to the unuer surface of the corpus striatum, and perforated b;i| numerous small foramina for the passage of vessels to that body. It ij bounded in front by the posterior and inner part of the frontal lobe an(ii the roots of the olfactory nerve, and behind & to the inner side by thi 1 optic tract & commissure, and is continued externally into tin } Fissure of Sylvius - Which separates the frontal and temporo-sphenoidal lobei ana divides on the outer surface of the cerebrum into two branches o i! limbs, which enclose the middle lobe or Island of Keil| Under Surface of the Temporo-sphenoidal Lobe. i Behind these parts appear when the medulla oblongata & cerebellum an removed, in the median line Middle part of the Transverse Fissure - ('omprised between tin corpora quadrigemina and th Posterior Extremity or Splenium of the Corpus Callosum ■ Behind which is thi Posterior Part of the Longitudinal Fissure - And laterally the Under Surface of the Occipital lobe.