APPENDAGES of the EYE & LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. The appendages of the eye are the eyebrows, eyelids & conjunctiva, and the lachrymal apparatus, which latter consists of the lachrymal gland, lachrymal canals, lachrymal sac & nasal duct, Eyebrows.—consist of thickened integument covered with oblique hairs. Eyelids. Two tMn movable folds, separated by the fissura palpebrarum, tho angles of which fissure form the external & internal canthi. The inner canthus is expanded into the lams lachrymalis, in which are seen the caruncula lachrijmalis & the piica semilunaris.—The edge of each eyelid is semilunar & thick (except opposite the lacus lachrymalis), and presents internally the papilla lachrymalis on the summit of which is the punctum lachrymale. The upper eyelid is the largest of the two, and the most movable on account of its connection with the levator palpebral superioris. The eyelids consist of:— 1. Integument, subcutaneous areolar tissue,.palpebral portion of the orbicu- laris ; 2. Tarsal cartilages with the palpebral & tarsal ligaments, the tendo oculi & the tensor tarsi muscle ;—and also, in the case of the upper eyelid the tendon of the levator palpebrse superioris.—The superior tarsal cartilage is the thickest, and is broadest in the middle; it gives attachment to the tendon of the levator palpebrte superioris. The inferior one is nar- row, and nearly uniform in breadth. 3. Palpebral portion of the conjunctiva. 4. Meibomian glands and eyelashes. Conjunctiva.—Presents an ocular & a palpebral portion, between which are comprised the superior & the inferior palpebral folds, of which folds the former is the deepest. Ocular Portion—is the thmnest and least vascular, and is subdivided into : Corn!eal Portion—Consists ahnost entirely of an epithelial layer, the underlying membrane being extremely thin & transparent and inti- mately blended with the anterior elastic lamina of the cornea.—Its vessels form delicate capillary loops round the circumference of the cornea, over which, in the fcetus, tliey extend for some distance. Sclerotic Portion—is thicker and more vascular than the foregoing, but still transparent & nearly colourless, and is loosely connected to the globe.—At the inner canthus of the eye it covers the caruncula lachry- malis and forms the plica semilunaris. Palpebral Portion—is thick, opaque, & highly vascular, and presents nume. rous papillae, which, when hypertrophied, constitute the disease called granular lids. Laclirynial Gland — is a conglomerate gland of the size & shape of almond, and is situated in a depression of the outer & front part of the roof of tlie orbit.—It presents:— Upper convex, & under concave surfaces. Posterior border—Receives the vessels & nerves of the gland. Anterior part, or Palpehral Portion—is separated from the remain, der of the gland by a slight depression, and is adherent to the uppei eyelid & ccnjunctiVa. It gives off from 6 to 8 excretory ducts which open into the upper fold of the conjunctiva. LacliryKial Canals—Begin at the puncta lachrymalia on the summit of the papillse lachrymales.—They pass respectively upwards & downwards for a short distance, and then bend inwards & open into the lachrymal sac. Lachrymal Sac—is the upper dilated part of the nasal duct. It lies in the lachrymal groove, and is crossed in front by the tendo oculi, and behind by the reflected aponeurosis of the same, & by the tensor tarsi muscle. It consists of a fibro-elastic coat lined internally by mucous membrane. Nasal Duct—is a membranous canal | of an inch long, contained in an osseous canal formed by the superior maxillary, lachrymal & inferior turbinated bones. It is directed downwards, backwards & a little outwards, and opens into the inferior meatus. It is narrowest towards its middle. Its inferior orifice is partly closed by a fold of mucous membrane forming an imperfect valve.