326 THE TBACHEA & BRONCHI. THE TRACHEA. From 5th cervical vertebra to 3rd dorsal. Pirnij rounded, & supported by cartila ginous rings in front, flattened & membranous behind Relations. In Front - Isthmus of thyroid gland, inferior thyroid veins, & thyroidea imt artery (when the latter exists) Remains of thymus gland, left innominate vein, arch of aorta wit! innominate & left common carotid arteries, great or deep cardia( plexus, bifurcation of pulmonary artery; Sterno-hyoid & -thyroid, anastomotic branch between the anterioi jugular veins, sternum, fascia, & skin Behind - j CEsophagus, which deviates to the left towards lower part of neckj i right recurrent laryngeal nerve On Either Side - Lateral lobe of thyroid gland; common carotid artery, internal jugu. lar vein, pneumogastrio & sympathetic nerves; inferior thyroic i artery, left recurrent laryngeal nerve (the right nerve lies somg. what behind the trachea) Innominate & common carotid arteries, pneumogastrio & left recur rent laryngeal nerves; - and farther oflF, but internally to tht pleurae, right innominate vein & right phrenic nerve, on the righl i side, left subclavian artery & left phrenic nerve, on the left | THE BRONCHI Commence opposite the 3rd dorsal vertebra a little to the left of the middle linejl the internal septum which marks the separation of the two tubes being slightly!I deviated to the left by the preponderance in diameter of the right bronchus over the left one. Both divide in the root of the lung into a large inferior and a somewhat smaller superior branch, the former of which, on the right side, gives off" a small branch to the middle lobe of the right lung. RIGHT BRONCHUS - About an inch in length, wider, more horizontal than the left: one J enters root of lung opposite 4th dorsal vertebra. - It lies behind the superior vena cava & the right auricle; the right pulmonary artery lies at first below it, and then in front of it; the vena azygos major arches over it from behind. LEFT BRONCHUS — Smaller, more oblique, nearly two inches long; enters root of lung opposite 5th dorsal vertebra. - It passes beneath the arch of the aorta j the left pulmonary artery lies at first above it, and then in front of it; behind it are the descending portion of the arob, the oesophagus & the thoracic duct. '