252 THE SPINAL NERVES, I'hirly.one pairs, - 8 cervical, 12 dorsal, 5 lambar, 5 sacral, 1 coccypreal, - tlie first or sub- occipital nerve being counted as a cervical nerve, and each of the other nerves bein^ named in correspondence with the vertebra beneath which it emergeSk. They arise by two roots, anterior or motor, & posterior or sensory. ANTERIOR ROOTS — The smaller, except in the case of the 1st cervical nerve. They arise from the so-called antero-lateral fissure. of the cord, a somewhat irregular lirear series of foramina gradually approaching the antero-median fi?sure infer- iorly. Their fibres are collected into two bundles belbre they pierce the dura nri ater. POSTERIOR ROOTS — The larger, except in the case of the 1st cervical nerve, but their fibres are more delicate than those of the anterior roots. They arise from the postero.lateral fissure, coalesce into two bundle^, receive a sheath from- the dura mater, and enter the corresponding ganglion. Ganglia on the Posterior Roots — Oral, of a reddish grey colour, proportionate in size to the root upon which thoy lie, and generally situated in the inter, vertebral foramina just externally to the point where the anterior & posterior roots perforate the dura mater. The two first and the sacral & coccygeal ganglia must however be excepted: - the two first ganglia lie upon the posterior arch of the atlas & the laminae of the axis respectivelyi the sacral & coccygeal ganglia lie in the sacral canal, the coccygeal ganglion being situated about the middle of its root. Internally these ganglia receive the two bundles of the posterior root, and are sometimes bilobate j immediately beyond them, the anterior & posterior roots coalesce to form the trunk of the corresponding spinal nerve. - The 1st ganglion is sometimes wanting, and, when present, is sometimes situated within the dura mater. The roots of the 1st cervical nerve are small, short, horizontally directed or slightly ascending, and the anterior one is the larger of the two. The roots of the following cervical nerves, and of the 1st dorsal, increaaa in size, length & obliquity; and the posterior ones are considerably larger than the anterior ones. The roots of the other dorsal nerves are small & nearly uniform in size, and the posterior ones are but a little larger than the anterior ones. The roots of the lumbar & upper sacral nerves, again increase from above downwards, and the latter are the largest of all. Oa the contrary the roots of the lower sacral nerves diraiaish rapidly, and those of the last sacral nerve & of the coccygeal nerve are the smallest of all; the posterior roots of these lumbar, sacral & coccygeal nerves are also but a little larger than the anterior ones. The length and the inclinatioa of the roots of the nerves increase from the first to the last. The roots of the upper cervical nerves are, as those of the first nerve, short and nearly horizontal, for their point of exit from the spinal canal is nearly opposite their point of origin from the cord. The roots of the following nerves become larger and more oblique j - The intra-spinal course of the roots of the lower cervical nerves is measured by about the breadth of one vertebra, and that of the roots of the lower dorsal nerves by about the breadth of two vertebrae. The cord not descending lower than the first lumbar vertebra, the length of the roots of the lumbar, sacral, & coccygeal nerves increases from nerve to nerve by the breadth of one vertebra. . p The trunk of each spinal nerve separates immediately into anterior & posterior primary divisions (Yide three following Tablets). - For the minute anatomy of the roots of the nerves Vide Structure of the Spinal Cord, 2nd Tablet.