THE TIBIA Prismoid, expanded above, slightly enlarged below, twisted outwards inferiorly, oblique downwards & outwards in female. Presents: UPPER EXTREMITY or HEAD — Broad from side to side, and formed by inner & outer tuberositio* which tuberosities correspond to & support condyles of femur, and are separated by a slight notch both in front & behind. Presents: Upper Surface - Presents the two condyloid surfaces, oval & slightly elongated from before back- wards, and separated from each other by the spine and by two rough triangular depressions situated one in front of the spine & the otlier behind it. Internal Condyloid Surface - The longest, narrowest, & deepest. External Condyloid Surface - The shortest, broadest, & shallowest. Spine - Surmounted by .two prominent tubercles formed by the prolongation backwards & in- wards, and forwards & inwards, respectively, of the internal & external condyloitj surfaces. Anterior PtOUCH depression - The largest; gives attachment from before backwards to anter- ior extremity of internal semilunar fibro-cartilage, anterior crucial Ugament, anterior extremity of external semilunar fibro-cartilage. Posterior Eough Depression - Rather smaller; gives attachment from before backwards to posterior extremities of external & internal semilunar fibre-cartilages & to pos- terior crucial ligament. Outer Surface - Presents outer surface of outer tuberosity, which tuberosity is the least prominent of the two, and is marked posteriorly by a small circular Facet looking downwards, outwards & backwards, for fibula. Inner Surface - Presents inner surface of inner tuberosity, which tuberosity, the more prominent of the two, gives attachment to internal lateral ligt. of knee-joint, and is marked by a Groove for insertion of one of the tendons of semimeml)ranosus. Anterior Surface - Presents a large rough triangular surface, perforated by numerous vascular foramina, broad above, ending inferiorly in the Tnhercle of the tibia rough inferiorly for ligamentum patella;, smooth superiorly for a bursa. Posterior Surface - Presents the posterior aspect of the tuberosities, which are separated by the Popliteal notcli for posterior crucial ligament & part of posterior ligament of knee-joint. The inner tuberosity gives attachment posteriorly to one of the tendons of semi- membranosus & to principal fasciculus of foregoing ligament. itOWER EXTREMITY — Smaller, quadrangular. Presents : Inferior or Articular Surface - Quadrilateral, concave from before backwards, broadest in front, narrowest internally, where it is continuous Avith inner surface of internal malleolus, marked by a Slight antero-posterior elevation separating two Shallo7u lateral-dcpressions. Anterior Surface - Broad, convex, smooth, covered by tendons of tibialis anticus. extensor proprius poUicis & extensor longus digitorum, and marked inferiorly by a Slight groove for anterior ligament of ankle-joint. Posterior Surface - Rather narrower; presents a Broadsliallo-M groove, oblique downwards & inwards for tendon of flexor longus pollicis. Inner Surface - Prolonged downwards into the Internal ^Ialleolus - Shorter, but rather broader than the external, and presents: - hiner Surface - Subcutaneous, convex; Outer Siirface - Kxi\z\\\^x\ deepens internally the articular surface for astragalus. A7iterior Border-B-ongh, for anterior portion of deltoid ligament. ^' Posterior Border - Presents a Broad deep groove, oblique downwards & inwards, divided by a slight ridge into inner & outer portions for tendons of tibialis posticus & flexor longus digitorum. Apex - '^QiVl%\\ & slightly grooved for middle portion of deltoid ligament. Outer Surface - Bounded by branches of bifurcation of inner border; presents inferiorly a Narrow co7icavefacet for external malleolus, and superiorly a Rough triangidar depressio7i for interosseous ligament of inferior tibio-ftbular articula- tion. 'SHAFT — Triangular, expanded above & below, narrowest at junction of middle & lower thirds; presents: Borders - Three: anterior or Crest - From tubercle of tibia to anterior border of internal malleolus; curved like an italic S, concave externally above, internally below; very prominent in upper two-thirds; for deep fascia of leg. Internal - From back of inner tuberosity to posterior border of internal malleolus ; gives attachment to pophteus, soleus & flexor longus di.gitorum. External, or Interosseous Ridge - From front of fibular facet to apex of triangular rough surface on outer side of lower extremity, to embrace which it bifurcates inferiorly; thin & prominent, especially towards middle. Surfaces - Three: Internal - Smooth, convex, subcutaneous, except at upper part, where it gives attachment to tendons of sartorius, gracilis & semitendinosus. External - Excavated in upper two-thirds for oridn of tibialis anticus; rounded off curved forwards anteriorly in lower third, where it is covered by tendons of tibialis anticus, extensor proprius pollicis & extensor longus digitorum. Posterior - Presents superiorly a large Triajt^ular surface for poi)liteus, which surface is bounded below by the Obliqitc line for popliteus, soleus, tibialis posticus & flexor longus digitorum. Below this line is the Nutrient foramen directed downwards, and a Vertical ridge, which di\ides middle third of posterior surface into Jn)U'r broader portion for flexor hmgus digitorum, and Outer narrow portion for tibialis posticus ; and then becomes lost inferiorly upon a Smooth surface covered by tendons of tibiaUs posticus, flexor longus digitorum, & flexM proprius pollicis.