215 STRUCTURE of the CEREBELLUM. APPARENT TO THE NAKED EYE: Central White Stem, - Which contains the corpus dentatum, and from the surface of which from 12 to 16 primary laminos are given off. These laminae, aa well as the secondary laminas which they give off in their turn, and also the tertiary laminse given off by the secondary, are covered with Grey Matter - Divided into two, and in some places into three layers, which layers are respectively from without inAvards dark grey, pale or rusty, light grey. The arborescent appearance of these two substances, when viewed together on section, is termed the arbor vita. CoKPUs Dentatum - Is a plicated bag of grey matter open above & in front, and situated in the white stem not far from the middle line. On section it presents a wavy dentated outline. White fibres are contained in its interior, which fibres issue forth from it and join the superior peduncle. MINUTE OR MICROSCOPICAL. White Fibres - Are of two kinds: Central or Peduncular - Converge from the central part ofthe laminae towards the three peduncles, into which they are continued (Vide below) Superficial or Non-peduncular - Pass superficially from one lamina to another Grey Matter - Contains : Large Caudate Neuve-cells with nucleus, nucleolus & granular contents, which cells, with the finely granular material in which they lie, form the most superficial & the deepest of the three layers of the grey matter. Their caudate prolongations are continued into branched processes mainly turned towards the surface of the organ, which processes j)robably join the terminal ramifications of the nerve-fibres (Kolliker, Gerlach). Cell-Nuclei densely aggregated without any intervening substance. These nuclei form the greater part of the pale intermediate layer of the grey matter. Terminal Extremities of the Nerve Fibres - End in a fine network, the ramifications of which are probably continuous with the caudate prolongations of the nerve-cells (Kolliker, Gerlach). Large Pellucid Cells, and other Cells & Nuclei belonging to the con- nective tissue. (See Page 230.) STRUCTURE of the PEDUNCLES. They consist of white fibres only. Superior, or Processus e Cerebello ad Testes - Arises in the laminae of the inferior vermiform process and also in the intei'ior of the corpus dentatum, passes upwards & inwards on either side of the middle line, being joined to its fellow by the valve of Vieussens, and ascends beneath the tubercula quadrigemina to the crura cerebri & optic thalami, partly decussating in the middle line. Middle, Processus e Cerebello ad Pontem or Crus Cerebelli - The great transverse commissure of the cerebellum. Connects the laminae of the lateral parts of one hemisphere to the corresponding laminae of the opposite side, and forms the pons Varolii & the deep transverse fibres of the mesocephalon. Inferior, or Processus e Cerebello ad Medullam - if traced from below upwards, it may be said to proceed from all three columns of the cord, i.e.^ from the iDostero-external bundles of the anterior & middle columns, & from the fasciculus cuneatus or external bundle of the posterior column, the latter bundle being much the largest of the three. It ends in the laminfB of the middle part of the cerebellum, especially in those of the upper surface.