192 1 I i THE VENM AZYGOS. * Collect the blood from the intercostal spaces, and are three in number, the major, mir 4 left sup ir. VENA AZYGOS MAJOR, or RIGHT AZYGOS — Commences in the rigl s. cending lumbar vein, or sometimes in a branch from the inferior cava o le right 1 il. Through aortic opening of diaphragm on right side of thorncic duct, behind m right side of aorta; - sometimes through risfht s,, Along right side of spine in front of right intercostal arteries to 3rd dorsal vert a. | Arches forwards over root of right lung, and opens into superior vena oav? st j before it enters pericardium. Kecf 3: I Tributary Branches : - JVine or ten lower intercostal veins of right side, vena . w i minor, several small oesophageal, mediastinal 6^ spinal veins, the right broi i/, | sometimes the right superior intercostal^ and occasionally the k u, VENA AZYGOS MINOR, or LEFT LOWER AZYGOS - Arises in left as J. ing lumbar vein, or sometimes in a branch from left i iL Perforates left crus of diaphragm (passes sometimes through aortic opening) id ascends along left side of spine in front of left intercostal arteries to 6th c ;li dorsal verl a. Crosses spine behind aorta & thoracic duct, and opens into vena azygos n m Kec 8! Tributary Branclies I - -Fotir or five lower intercostal veins of left side, several '// mediastinal, oesophageal 6^ spinal w. LEFT UPPER AZYGOS — Eeceives the blood from those left intercostal veins, us ly two or three in number, which are situated between the intercostal veins it open into the left lower azygos and those that open into the left superior r* costal. It therefore varies greatly in size, diminishing as these latter veir a- crease, & vice versa ; often it does not exist at all, or one or more of the 5th \ & 7th left intercosal veins may merely open directly into the vena azygos e i". When there is a distinct left upper azygos, it opens either into the azygos r ii"! or into the left lower azygos. ^ A few imperfect valves are found in the azygos vein; distinoc valves are found in the intercostal ^'