266 I I i ! PUDIO NERVE. From lower part of sacral plexus. With pudic artery through lower part of great sacro-soiatic foramen on inner side c great sciatic nerv Winds round spine of ischium, and re-enters pelvis through lesser sacro-sciatic foramer where it gives ojff inferior haemorrhoidal nerve Forwards along outer wall of ischio-rectal fossa above pudic artery, both nerve & arter; being covered by obturator fascia, and divides into perinaeal nerve & dorss nerve of the peni FEHINj^AL NERVE — The larger. Accompanies superficial perinseal artery, and divide into branches: Cutaneous or Superficial Perinseal - Two in number: PosTERioK OR INTERNAL - Gives filaments to skin in front of anus (and to th | sphincter ani. Gray), and communicates with the inferior haemorrhoids nerve. It then passes forwards to the scrotum or labium on the inner aid of the following nerve with which it communicates anteriorlj Anterior or External - Forwards on outer side of foregoing to scrotum & integu | ment of penis, or labium. Communicates with foregoing, and with inferio pudendal, and gives a few twigs to levator ani ]y[uscular - Generally arise by a common trunk, which passes forwards and inward j under cover of transversus perinsei, and supplies anterior extremity c sphincter ani, transversus perin^i, erector penis, accelerator urinae & com pressor urethras; a twig is given to the bulb of the urethraij DORSAL NERVE OF THE PENIS — The smaller. With pudic artery along rami ci ischium & pubes between the two layers of deep perineal fascia, ami through suspensory ligament and along dorsum of penis to glans. Sapplienj skin of dorsum & sides of penis, and gives a large branch to corpuMi cavernosum. - Dorsal nerve of clitoris in female is smaller, but similarljij distributee |i Inferior HsBmorrhoidal Nerve - May be derived directly from sacral plexus |' Crosses ischio-rectal fossa towards lower end of rectum, and gives off nnni'H erous branches to sphincter ani & integument round anus; communicates | with superficial perinaeal & inferior pudendal |; i!