239 SPHENO-PALATINE or MECKEL'S GANGLION. Triangular, of a reddish g"rey colour and situated in spheno-maxillary fossa near spheno- palatine foramen, mainly behind spheno-palatine branches of superior maxillary nerve, the fibres of these branches not being, or being but partly, involved in the ganglion as they descend to the nose & palate. Presents : THREE ROOTS: Sensory Root — From superior maxillary nerve through its two spheno- palatine branches. Motor Root — From facial nerve through Vidian nerve. Sympatlietic Root — From carotid plexus also through Vidian nerve. BRS. OF DISTRIBUTION - Are divided into: Ascending Brs. — Two or three small filaments, which pass up through spheno. maxillary fissure to periosteum of oi'bit. Descending Brs. — Are the: ANT. OR GREAT PALATINE N. - Through great posterior palatine canal, giving ofli" inferior nasal branches to middle meatus & to middle & inferior turbinated bones, and a twig to soft palate ; Forwards in groove on hard palate, and joins termination of naso-palatine nerve. EXT. PALATINE N. - Through external palatine canal to tonsil & soft palate. Is sometimes wanting. POST. OR SMALL PALATINE N. - Through small posterior palatine canal to tonsil, soft palate and levator palati & azygos uvulae. Internal Brs. — Are the: SUP. NASAL BR. - Small. Through spheno-palatine foramen to mucous mem- brane of superior & middle spongy bones & upper & back part of septum. A twig joins anterior dental nerve in outer wall of antrum of Highmore above eye-tooth & pi-esents a small ganglion, the ganglion of Bochdalek. NASO-PALATINE BR, - Through spheno-palatine foramen & across roof of nose to seiTtum, and downwards to anterior palatine foramen. Through central division of the anterior palatine foramen, or foramen of Scarpa, right nerve being posterior to left one. Joins its fellow in common anterior palatine canal and ends in mu- cous membrane of hard palate, joining with anterior or great palatine nerve. Posterior Brs. — Are the : VIDIAN N. - Backwards through Vidian canal (if the nerve be traced from Meckel's ganglion), giving twigs to back of roof & septum of nose and to termination of Eustachian tube, and divides into : Large Petrosal N. - Through cartilaginous substance of foramen lace- rum medium, and then in groove on anterior surface of petrous portion of temporal bone beneath Gasseriau ganglion & through hiatus Fallopii to geniculate ganglion or intumescentia gangli- forniia of facial. Carotid Br. - Soft and of reddish grey colour. Through cartilaginoun substance to carotid plexus on outer side of internal carotid artery, PHARYNGEAL or PTERYGO-PALATINE N. - Small. Through pterygo- palatine canal to mucous membrane of upper part of pharynx.