242 FACIAL N. or PORTIO DUBA of the 7th PAIR. Arises from upper part of lateral tract of medulla oblongata in groove between olivary & restifon bodies. — Its deep origin is from a grey nucleus on floor of 4th ventricle & ivovsx nucleu of motor root of 5th nerve, and also, by its accessory portion or portio intermedia c Wrisberg, from lateral column of core Through internal auditory meatus with portio mollis, lying in a groove upon the latter an( portio intermedia of Wrisberg lying between the twc Through aqueductus Fallopii, in which runs outwards, backwards, downwards: Cz^^w^^r^/j'- between cochlea and vestibule to hiatus Fallopii, where present geniculate ganglion or intumescentia gangliformi^ Backxvards - in inner wall of tympanum above fenestra ovalis. Downwards - to stylo-mastoid foramen. Forwards in substance of parotid gland crossing external carotid artery, and divides behini ramus of jaw into temporo-facial & cervico-facial branches, forming pes anserinus Its branches may be divided into branches of communication & branches of distribution. BRANCHES OF COMMUNICATION - Are: In Meatus Anditorius Internus: One or two filaments to Auditory N, In Aqueductus Fallopii: Large Petrosal N.-to Meckel's ganglion, and supplies levatorpalati ^ azygos uvulct \ Small Petrosal N. - to Otic ganglion, and supplies tensor palati 6^ tensor tytnpanh Ext. Petrosal N. - to sympathetic on middle meningeal artery. After Exit from Stylo-mastoid Foramen: Branches to: Glosso-pharyngeal, Pneumogastric & Carotid Plexus - Arise froi posterior auricular nerve & from nerves to stylo-hyoid & posterio belly of digastrici Auriculo-temporal - From temporo-facial branch. Great Auricular - From posterior auricular & cervico-facial branches, On the Face: The terminal filaments join with the three divisions of the Fifth N. BRANCHES OF DISTRIBUTION - Are: In Aqueductus Fallopii: TYMPANIC BR. - To stapedius laxator tympani; i CIIOllDA TYMPANI - Enters tymp. between membr. tympani & "base of pyramidl Between handle of malleus & long process of incus. Through canal of Huguier on inner side of Glaserian fissure j Joins gustatory nerve between the two pterygoid muscles j To submaxillary ganglion & lingualis superior.' After Exit from Stylo-mastoid Foramen: POST. AURICULAR N. - Over mastoid process to integument and retrahens aurer & posterior belly of occipito-frontalis, and anastomoses with auricn laris magnus & posterior auricular branch of pneumogastric BRS. to STYLO-HYOID & POST. BELLY op DIGASTRIC - Arise in common, an;l join, the former with carotid plexus, the latter with glosso-pharyngea' On the Face: TEMPORO-FACIAL BR. - The larger. Anastomoses with auriculo-temporal, am divides into te}?iporal, malar &^ inf raorbital branche CERVICO-FACIAL - The smaller. Anastomoses with great auricular, and divide into bzucaly siipram axillary 6^ inframaxillary branch These terminal branches of the facial nerve supply all the muscles ( expression of the face & the platysma, and anastomose with tb ophthalmic, superior & inferior maxillary nerves and with th* --- -- great auricula;I