23 384* THE MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH. It is now known that the membranous semicircular canals ana ampulias ao not jtoat m the perilymph, as was believed up till lately, but that, on the contrary, they are flattened against, and attached to, the side of the osseous semicircular canals which corresponds to the convexity of their curve. Only that part of their circumference, which forms the concavity of their curve, is free, and bathed by the perilymph. It has further been shown that the utricule & saccule communicate with each other by means of a small coecal canal lined with epithelium, which lies in the aqueductus vestibuli: At its outer extremity this canal divides into two branches, which open, one into the utricule, the other into the saccule. As the saccule is continuous with the canalis cochleae by means of the canalis reicniens of Hensen, the cavity for the endolymph is uninterrupted from one end of the membranous labyrinth to the other, as is also the cavity for the perilymph throughout the osseous labyx'inth. The walls of the semicircular canals, ampuUse, utricule, & saccule, are shown to consist, as was stated by Kolliker, of three layers, namely, an outer fibrous layer, a ttcnica propria^ and a layer of epithelium. The fibrous layer contains a few irregular pigment-cells. It is thinnest over the attached surface of the tube, where it blends with the periosteum, thicker over the [free surface, and thickest at either extremity of the transverse section, i.e.^ where the wall of the membranous canal leaves the osseous canal. And in these latter situations it is prolonged into numerous fibrous bands, which traverse the endolymph to became attached to the periosteum; many of these bands contain blood-vessels, and some of them reach the opposite side of the osseous Bomiciroular canal, ue., the side erf its concavity. The tunica propria is a clear, glassy, homogeneous membrane, also thinnest over the attached surface, thicker over the free surface, and thickest at either extremity of the trans- verse section. Externally it is not always very clearly demarcated from the fibrous coat. Internally it is raised, except where it is thinnest, into numerous papilliform eminences, which project into the interior of the canals. Where the ampullae, and the utricule & saccule, are attached to the osseous wall, both this coat & the fibrous coat become somewhat modified; the fibrous coat fo]?ms a loose-meshed tissue traversed by the nerves, as explained below, and the tunica propria is considerably thickened. Hence result internal projections termed the crista acusticce, or, in the ampullae, the septa transversa. In man, the epithelial layer consists of a single stratum of flattened cells, except over, and in the neighbourhood of, the cristce aatsticcBi where it undergoes the important modifications described below. In some of the lower mammalia it is considerably modified, however, in other situations. Over the cristae acusticae there are three or four diffet-ent kinds of epithelial structures: - Projecting from the surface, there are numerous long stiff cilium-like processes, the auditory hairS) which dip into the endolymph. Beneath these is a layer of large columnar cells of which the deep or attached extremity tapers to a point. Between the deeper ends of these columnar cells are some smaller spindle-shaped cells armed with elongated processes, which processes pass up towards the free surface between the columnar cells. In the deeper strata there are, accor(ing to Schultze, some elongated pyramidal cells, with broad attached bases, the upper tapering ends of which cells pass up between the structures already described, which structures it appears to be their office to support. Finally, there are, according to Eetzius, several rows of nucleated bodies in the region of these pyramidal cells. All these structures rest upon the loose-meshed tissue of the fibrous layer. The nerves traverse first this tissue and then the tunica propria. They lose their medullary sheath & dark contour either in the tunica propria (Schultze), or a little beyond it (Retzius), and they are then continued as simple axis-cylinders. These latter break up into ;a network of very fiae fibrils. Statements differ as to which of the superficial structures it is, that receive the terminal filaments of the auditory nerve, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, support the auditory hairs. According to Schultze, the filaments of the auditory nerve enter the deep ends of the spindle-shaped cells, and it is the superficial processes of these cells that support the auditory hairs j and further, according to Eiidinger, it is the nerve-fibrils themselves which, after traversing the spindle-shaped cells, and becoming connected with the nuclei, project beyond the free surface as auditory hairs. According to Eetzius, on the contrary, it is the columnar cells which, on the one hand, receive the terminal filaments of the auditory nerve, and, on the other hand, support the auditory hairs. It is not known what precise relation the otoliths bear to the other structures, or what their functions are.