108 MUSCLES of the NECK-lst Tablet. SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES, Platysma Myoides - Clavicle, acromion, fascia over pectoralia major, deltoid, & trapezius. Innermost fibres decussate below cbin & in front of symphysis; others are inserted into lower jaw below external oblique line; others blend with depressores labii inferioris & anguli oris and the other muscles of the mouthj forming risorius. - S. by superficial cervical plexus and facial nerve. Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid or Sterno-Mastoid. Stebnal Portion - Upper & outer part of front of first piece of sternum. Clavicular Portion - Anterior surface & upper border of inner third of clavicle. Anterior border & outer surface of mastoid process and outer two-thirda of superior curved line of occipital bone. - S. by deep external branches oi cervical plexus & by spinal accessory nerve. INFRA-HYOID REGION. Stemo-Hyoid or Sterno-Cleido-Hyoid - Variously from posterior sterno-clavicBla: ligament, and from upper & back part of first piece of sternum or back o inner extremity of clavicle, or from both; sometimes from clavicle only; occa sionally from cartilage of first rib. Lower border of body of hyoid bone internally to omo-hyoid. - S. by i branch from loop between descendens & communicans noni nerves. StemO-Thyroid - Back of first piece of sternum below & internally to sterno-hyoid. Oblique line on ala of thyroid cartilage. - S. by a branch from sam source. Omo-Hyoid - Upper border of scapula on inner side of suprascapular notch and some times from transverse ligament. j Lower border of body of hyoid bone externally to sterno-hyoid. - S. by i branch from loop between descendens & communicans noni nerves. Tliyro-Hyoid - Oblique line on ala of thyroid cartilage. Lower border of body & greater cornu of hyoid bone. - S. by hypoglossal i SUPRA-HYOID REGION. j Digastric - Digastric groove on inner side of mastoid process. - Perforates stylo-hyoi and is held in connection with body & great cornu of hyoid bone by an apoin eurotic loop lined with synovial membrane, from which loop it is reflecte|| upwards & forwards to i Rough depression on inner lip of lower border of jaw bone close to syn physis. - S., posterior belly by facial nerve, anterior belly by mylo-hyoi branch of inferior dental nerve. Stylo-Hyoid - Middle of outer surface of styloid process. Body of hyoid bone at its junction with great cornu. - S. by facial nerv' MylO-Hyoid - Whole length of mylo-hyoid ridge. Body of hyoid bone & median raph6 from hyoid bone to symphysis. mylo-hyoid branch of inferior dental nerve. Genio-Hyoid - inferior genial tubercle. Anterior surface of body of hyoid bone. - S. by hypoglossal nerve.