317 See Appendix, page 317^- THE SPLEEN Is compressed & oval in form, soft, brittle, & of a dark reddisli-blue colour, and lies in left hypochondrium, embracing cardiac end of stomach, to which it is connected by gastro- splenic omentum. It presents: Outer Surface - Convex, in relation with under surface of diaphragm; corresponds to 9th, 10th, & 11th ribs. Inner Surface - Concave. Presents a little behind its middle the hilum, a vertical fissure pierced by several irregular foramina for the blood-vessels, lymphatics & nerves, and is related with: In Front - Great cul-de-sac of stomach; Behind - Left crus of diaphragm, left suprarenal capsule & usually a process of lesser sac of peritoneum; Below - Tail of pancreas. Upper Extremity - Thick, rounded, attached to diaphragm by suspensory ligament. Lower Extremity - Pointed, in relation with splenic flexure of colon. Anterior Border - Thin, frequently notched. Posterior Border ■- Thick, rounded, lies on left kidney. STUUCTUREj — The spleen is one of the vascular or ductless glands, and presents! Serous Coat - Closely adherent. Covers whole of organ except points of attachment of suspensory ligament & gastro-splenic omentum. E*ibro-elastic Coat - Formed of white & yellow elastic fibrous tissues, and contains numerous unstriped muscular fibres in some of the mammalia, but none, it ia believed, in man. - It is reflected inwards at the hilum upon the vessels in the shape of sheaths; and both from its inner surface and from these sheaths trabeculas are given ofi", which bound lacunar spaces or areolsG all communi- cating with each other. Proper Substance - Soft, reddish.brown, pulpy mass, contained in the areolae. Presents: Malpighian Corpuscles - Large ovoid cells* from 1.25th to 1.60th of an inch in diameter, attached in groups of six or eight to the small arterial twigs, sessile & usually placed, in mammalia generally, in the angle of divi- sion between two arteries, pedunculated & usually pierced by an artery in man. Consist of an indistinctly fibrous capsule partly derived from sheath of supporting artery, on which capsule numerous arterial & venous capillaries ramify, and of semi-opaque granular contents traversed by capillaries, in which contents a few nucleated cells & free nuclei are found. These corpuscles are largest & most numerous in early life; they diminish in size & number when the nutrition fails either through ill health or old age. Coloured Elements - Are red blood-corpuscles free or sometimes, though rarely in man, included in cells, unchanged or altered in form & colour, also pigment granules, and reddish or black corpuscles or crystals closely allied in composition to hssmatin. Colourless Elements - Consist of finely granular albuminous matter, nucleated & non-nucleated cells and free nuclei; all these undergo a marked in- crease towards close of digestive period, and are most abundant in healthy & well fed animals, in which they form one-half or more of the mass of the pulp. Splenic Artery - Very large & tortuous. Divides in the hilum into five or six branches which supply each of them one particular segment of the spleen, anastomosing Lut very little with each other. The smaller branches sub- divide into tufts or pencils of capillaries, which lie in direct contact with the pulp, some of which capillaries are continued into the veins, while the others open into the lacunar spaces (Gray, Miiller). Splenic Vein - its radicles arise partly in the capillary network, and partly^ in the lacunar spaces, which are therefore intermediate between the arteries and the veins (Gray, IHuUer). XiVmphatiCS - J^ew in number in man. Are superficial & deep; pass through glands at hilum to thoracic duct. Nerves - Are branches of the solar plexus, and are derived partly from semilunar ganglia & partly from right pneumogastric.