183 SINUSES of the DURA MATER. Venous cabals fifteen in number, and more or less trian:?ular in shape, the outer coat of which is formed by the splitting of the dura mater, while their inner coat is a continuatioa of the inner or serous coat of the veins. They are divided into; PosTERO-Superior Group: - Superior LongHudinal, Inferior Longituditul, Strai^ktt Lateral^ ^ O.cipital, all converging towards the Torciilar Herophilu -Xntero-Ikfeeior Group: - Cavernous, Circular, Transverse, Superior er» Inferior Petrosal, all converging towards the sella turcica* Superior Loilg'itn.d.ilial Sinus - CommeTices at foramen coscu-ti, through which it frequently commun- icates by a minute branch with veins of Schneiderian membrane of nose. Eans backwards in attach- ed margin of falx cerebri, grooving middle line of frontal, aijacent borders of parietals & superior division of crucial ridge of occipital, and opens into torcular Heropaili. Xumerous fibrous bands the chordce Willisii, cross inferior angle of its cavity, and the glandidce Paccaionii project into its base. It receives the superficial veins of upper part of hemispheres, numerous veins from diploe & dura mater, and, at posterior extremity of sagittal suture, the parietal veins from the pericranium. Inferior Longitudinal Sinus - Sometimes called a vein on account of its cylindrical form. Follows posterior part of free margin of falx cerebri, and opens into anterior extremity of straight sinus behind the vec« Galeni. It receives several small veins from the falx, and accasioaally a few from inner surface o: hemispheres. Straisllt Sinus - Enns downwards & backwards in line of junction of falx cerebri with tentorium cere- belli, and opens into torcular Herophili. Eeceives venae Galeni, inferior longitudinal sinus, inferior median cerebral, & superior cerebellar veins. A few fibrous bands cross its superior angle. Occipital Sinuses - Usually two, small, contained in attached margin of falx cerebelli. Arise near pos- terior border of foramen magnum in several small veins which communicate with posterior longi- tudinal spinal veins. They pass backwards & upwards, and open separately or together into torcular Herophili. Lateral Sinuses - Two, large. Commence at torcular Herophili; pass outwards in posterior attached margin of tentorium cerebelli as far as base o:" petrous portion of temporal bone, grooving occipital & posterior inferior angles oi parietals; curve downwards & inwards grooving mastoid portion of temporals and again the occipital at its lateral angles; and are continued into the internal jugu- lar vein through posterior outer or larger part of foramen lacerum posterius. - T-iey receive the inferior cerebral & inferior cerebellar veins & some veins from the diplce, they are connected to the cavernous sinus by the superior & inferior petrosal sinuses, and they communicate through the mastoid foramen with the mastoid & posterior condyloid veins of the pericranium. The right one is generally somewaat the larger of the two. Torcular Herophili - An irregular expansion of the postero-superior group of sinases pretty nearly cor- responding in situation to the external o-^cipital protuberance, and formed by the coalescence of t.e superior longitudinal, straight & occipital sinuses, which pour their blood into it, and of the lateral sinuses, which convey t:.e blood from the torcular to the internal jugular veins. Cavernous Sinuses - Two large but short sinuses, extending on either side of sella turcica from sphe- noidal fissure to apex of petrous portion of temporal bone, and communicating with each other through circu'ar & transverse sinuses, and with the lateral sinuses through the superior & inferior petrosal. Their cavity is intersected by numerous fibrous bands & small vessels; hence their name. Against their inner wall, separated from the blood by the lining membrane of the sinus, are the cavernous portion of the internal carotid artery, the 6ch nerve, & the carotid & cavernous plexuses of the sympsthetic; in their outer wall lie from above downwards & from within outward^ the 3rd, 4th, ^ ophthalmic nerves. They receive the ophthalmic & anterior inferior cerebral veins. Circular Sinus - Placed superficially in ring of dura mater which surrounds pituitary body. Eeceives small veins from this body, adjacent bone, & dura mater, and communicates on either side with the cavernous sinus. Its posterior half is generally larger than the anterior. Transverse Sinus - Small & short. Crosses fore part of basilar groove, connecting cavernous & inferior petrosal sinuses of one side to those of the other; is sometimes double. Superior Petrosal Sinus - Small, along upper border of petrous portion of temporal bone in anterior attached margin of tentorium, connecting lateral & cavernous sinuses of same side. Receives inferior cerebellar & inferior lateral cerebral veins. IXifeiiW Petrosal Sinus - Somewhat larger than foregoing. Along uroove in petro-occipital suture, connecting cavernous sinus to termination of the lateral in jugular foramen.