73 SffUSCLES ATTACHED to BONES of LOWER LIMB-4th T. OS Calcis - Eight muscles: Gastroate7nuts, Plaiitaris, So!eus - Lovrev part of posterior surface. Extensor Brevis Digitorum - Upper and outer surfaces of greater process Flexor Brevis Digitorum - Greater tuberosity. Abductor Pollicis - Greater tuberosity internally to foregoing. Abdicctor Minimi Digiti - Lesser tuberosity, greater tuberosity in front of flexor brevis Flexor Accessorius - Inner & under surfaces in front of tuberosities. Scaphoid - One muscle: Tibialis Posticus - Tuberosity. Cuboid - One muscle : Flexor Brevis Pollicis - Inner part of under surface. Internal Cuneiform Bone - Two muscles: Tibialis Antictcs - Front part of inner & under surfaces. Tibialis Posticus - Back part of under surface. External Cuneiform Bone - Two muscles: Tibialis Posticus - Under surface. Flexor Brevis Pollicis - ,, First Metatarsal Bone - Three muscles: Tibialis Anticus - Inner side of base. Pero7ieus Longus - Outer side of base. First Dorsal Interosseous - Upper or dorsal half of outer surface of shaft. Second Metatarsal bone - Three muscles: First Dorsal Interosseous - Whole of inner surface of shaft. Second Dorsal Interosseous - Whole of outer surface of shaft. Adductor Pollicis - Under surface of base. Third Metatarsal Bone - Four Muscles: First Plantar Interosseous - Lower or plantar half of inner surface of shaft. Secoiid Dorsal Interosseotis - Upper or dorsal half of inner surface of shaft. * Third Dorsal Interosseous - Whole of outer surface of shaft. Adductor Pollicis - Under surface of base. Fourth Metatarsal Bone - Four muscles: Third Dorsal hiterosseous - Upper or dorsal half of inner surface of shaft. Second Plantar Intei'osseotcs - Lower or plantar half of inner surface of shaft Fozcrth Dorsal Interosseous - Whole of outer surface Of shaft. Addzictor Pollicis - Under surface of base. Fifth Metatarsal Bone - Six muscles: Perotteus Brevis - Outer side of base. Peroneus Tertius - Upper surface of base. Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti - Under surface of base. Transversals Pedis - Under surface of head. Fourth Dorsal hiterosseous - Upper or dorsal half of inner surface of shaft. Third Plantar Interosseous - Lower or plantar half of inner surface of shaft. First Phalanx of Great Toe - Five muscles: Abductor Pollicis - Inner side of base. Flexor Brevis Pollicis - Inner & outer sides of base Adductor Pollicis - Outer side of base. Trajtsversus Pedis - ,, Extensor Brevis Di^itortan (Iimennost Tendon) — Outer side Of base. First Phalanx of 2nd Toe - Three muscles .- First Dorsal Interosseous - Inner side of base. Second Dorsal Interosseous - Outer side of base. First Ltimbricalis - Inner side of base. First Phalanx of 3rd Toe - Three muscles: Thii'd Dorsal Interosseous - Outer side of base. First Plantar Interosseous - Inner side of base. Second Ltimbricalis - Inner side of base. First Phalanx of 4th Toe - Three muscles: Fourth Dorsal Ittterosseotis - Outer side of base. Second Plantar Interosseous - Inner side of base. Third Ltanbricalis - Inner side of base. First Phalanx of 5th Toe - Four muscles: Abductor Minimi Digiti - Outer side of base. Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti - „ Third Plantar Interosseous - Inner side of base. Fotirth Ltctnbricalis - Second Phalanx of Great Toe - Two muscles: Extensor Proprius Pollicis - Upper SlU'f ace of base. Flexor Loitgus Pollicis - Under surface of base. Second Phalanges of Four Outer Toes - Two muscles: Exte7tsorLongus Digitorum - Upper surface of base. Flexor Brevis Digito7um - Sides of shaft. Third Phalanges of Four Outer Toes - Two muscles: Extensor Lo7tgus Digitorutn - Upper surface of base. Flexor Lo7igus Digital wii - Under surface of base.