321 'HE LARYNX-2nd Tablet. MUCOUS MEMBRANE Is stretched, on entering the larynx, between the arytsenoid cartilages & the epiglottis, forming the arytceno-epigjottidean folds. These contain the thyro- & the arytseno- epiglottidean mnscles, the cornicula laryngis & the cartilages of Wrisberg, and a large amount of loose cellular tissue, the occasional infiltration of which tissue constitutes the so-called oedema of the glottis. It is thin, and of a pale rosy colour. It is particularly thin & adherent over the epiglottis, and still more so over the true vocal cords, where it is transparent enough for the ligamentous fibres to be seen through its substance. Its epithelium is columnar ciliated below the superior vocal cords, and also, in front;, as high as the middle of the epiglottis; above these points it loses its cilia, and gradu- ally assumes the squamous form. It is squamous over the true vocal cords. It is highly sensitive in the npper part of the larynx. MlJCOUS GLANDS — Simple tubular, and conglomerate; particularly abundant over the posterior surface of the epiglottis, in which situation they are rpceived into num- erous small pits in the substance of the cartilage; but they are found everywhere beneath the mucous membrane, excepting over the true vocal cords. The glands of the sacculus laryngis, from 60 to 70 in number, pour out their secretion upon the in- ferior or true vocal cords which it is destined to lubricate. The so-called arytcenoid glands are colleC^ed into a somewhat large mass in the arytaano-epiglottidean folds, in front of the arytaenoid cartilages. ViESSELS & NERVES — Arteries. Are the laryngeal branches of the superior & inferior thyroid. - Veins. Open into the superior, middle & inferior thyroid. - Lym- phatics. Terminate in the deep cervical glands. - Nerves. Are the superior and the inferior or recurrent laryngeal branches of the pneumogastric, and filaments from the sympathetic. The superior laryngeal nerve supplies the mucous membrane, the crico-thyroid muscle, & in part the arytaenoid; the inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerve supplies in part the arytaenoid, and all the other muscles, excepting the crioo« thyroid. A.