236 FIFTH NERVE Arises by two roots, anterior small or motor, posterior large or sensory, from side of pons Varolh nearer to upper than to loiver border. Its deep origin is said to be from lateral tract of medulla bcliind olivary body, from grey nucleus on floor of 4th ventricle between restiform body & fasciculi teretes, from tubercle of Rolando; its motor root appears to arise from external angle of floor of fourth ventricle (See pages 213 & 250). Through opening in dura mater near apex of petrous portion of temporal bone. Sensory root to Gasserian ganglion; motor root to inferior maxillary nerve outside cranium. Gasserian ganglion - Crescentic. Situated in a depression near apex of pe- trous portion of temporal bone, and receives filaments from carotid plex. Gives oS" imteriorly ophthalmic, superior & inferior maxillary nerves, and laterally, small branches to tentorium cerebelli & dura mater of middle fossa, and one to 6th nerve in cavernous sinua, OPHTHALMIC NERVE — The smallest of the three divisions of the 5th pair. Through outer wall of cavernous sinus below 3rd & 4th nerves, being joined by filaments from cavernous plexus and frequently from 4th nerve, and giving off' recurrent branches to tentorium, Divides near sphenoidal fissure into lachrymal, frontal, nasal. LACHRYMAL N. - The smallest. Through outer & narrowest part of sphenoidal fissure, and along upper border of exter. nal rectus to lachrymal gland, conjunctiva & skin of upper eyelid. — Joins with orbital branch of superior maxillary nerve. FRONTAL N. — The largest. ^ Through highest & broadest part of sphenoidal fissure; Along middle line of orbit between levator palpebrae superioris & periosteum, and divi- des into: SUPRAORBITAL BR. — The largest. Through supraorbital foramen or notch, and ascends to corrugator supercilii, occipito-frontalis & orbicularis pal- pebrarum, and to periosteum & integument, the cutaneous branches, two in number, lying at first beneath the muscles. SUPRATROCHLEAR BR. — The smallest. Above pulley of superior oblique, and same distribution Joins with infratrochlear branch of nasal. NASAL N. — Intermediate in size between the two others. Between the two heads of external rectus, and forwards & inwards across optic nerve. Through anterior ethmoidal foramen, and through groove on cribriform plate & slit by crista galli to nose, where divides into Internal Br. — To mucous membrane of fore part of septum; External Br. — In groove on inner surface of nasal bone, between that bone & lateral cartilage, and downwards to tip of nose beneath compressor nasi supplying mucous membrane & integument. Gives off": GANGLIONIC BR. — Long & slender; to posterior superior angle of ciliary ganglion, forming its long or sensory root. LONG CILIARY NS. — Two or three; join ciliary nerves from ciliary gang- lion. (Vide Ciliary Ganglion). INFRATROCHLEAR BR. — Beneath pulley of superior oblique, where joins with supratrochlear branch of frontal, to orbicularis, lachrymal sac, carun- cula, conjunctiva & skin of eyelids.