228 STRUCTURE of the CEREBRUM —1st Tablet. WHITE FIBRES — Are peduncular & commissural. PEDUNCULAR OR DIVERGING FIBRES — Present for examination their origin their course & their termination | Their Origin. - They are derived from the five following sources, viz.: Criwa Ce}-ebj-i, Superior Peduncles of the CercheUiinii Tubcrc7ila Quadrigrmina, Corpora Genictdata Jntcrmun Externum, Corpora Striata <ff Optic Thalami. Fibres prom the Cruka Cerebri - The most numerous. They form two sets re spectively derived from the inferior or fasciculated portion of the crus, & frotii its Tipper portion or tet^mentum. The fibres from the inferior or fascic;ilatc( portion of the crus are the continuation of the fibres of the anterior pyramids | The fibres from the upper portion or tegmentum are the continuation of thi fasciculus teres & of the antoro-internal division of the olivary fasciculus a! fillet; the fasciculus teres being itself derived (Vide structure of the meso cephalon) on the one hand, from the middle set of fibres of the lateral trac of the medulla, and on the other hand, from the fasciculus gracilis or inne j set of fibi es of the posterior column of the cord \ Fibres fiioji the Superior Peduncles of the Cerebellum - Arise, as it ha already been stated, in the laminae of the inferior vctmiform process and als in the interior of the corpus dentatum. These fibres join the upper part o tegmentum of the crus cerebri; On a plane posterior & superior to that of the two foregoing sets of fibre lie the fibres derived from th TuBERCULA QuADRiGEMiNA and from the CoRPOKA Geniculata INTERNUM & EXTERNUM. - The fibres derived from the Corpora Stiuata & Optic Thalami are added in these bodies to the fibres de . rived from the cru! Their Course - is through the corpora striata & optic thalami as follows: - Fibres of the Fasciculated Tortion of the Crus Cerebri -Perforate the corpn [ striatum forming the pecten or corona radiata of Keil, and dividing tL corpus striatum into intra- & extra-ventricular portion! Fibres or the Tegmentum & of the Superior Peduncles of the Cerebellus AND Fibres derived from the Tubercula Quadrigemina & the Corpor Geniculata - Perforate the optic thalami in a similar manner. Their Termination. --fn f-he cerebrum they radiate towards the convolutions, de cussating with the fibres of the corpus callosum, and forming a kind of holloa cone curved outwards & downwards COMMISSURAL FIBRES — Are of three kinds, transverse, antero-posterior, & gyral. Transverse - Form three sets as follows. Those belonging to the Corpus Callosum - Pass laterally into the substance of both hemispheres, an radiate towards the convolutions, decussating with the peduncular fibrei Anterior Commissure - Peiforate the corpora striata, and then bend backward for some distance in the substance of the hemisphere! Posterior Commissure - Perforate the optic thalami, and are similarly lost i the hemisphere!( Antero-Posterior - Form the following parts : TcBnia Sernicirciilaris, j Fornix with its Anterior &> Posterior Cntra, : Peduncles of the Pineal Gland, j| So-called ''Nerves " op Land si 7vith the Stria Longitudinales Laterales, & //|| longitudinal fibres on the under surface of the corpus callosum (Vide aij these parts in respective Tablets | Gyral-Vide grey matter of the cortical substance. - One set of these gyral fibre those of the gyrus fornicatus & of its continuation, the gyrus uncinatus, noa be placed among the antero-posterior commissural fibres; they form a almost complete circle extending round the corpus callosum from the fror to the back of the anterior perforated space ( Foville