17 378^ Columnar or Bacillary Layer, or Layer of the Rods & Cones. Is probably the layer which contains the terminal organs of the optic nerve-fibres, £<?., tho organs in which impressions of light originate through the conversion of luminous vibrations into sensory nerve-movement. These terminal organs are of two kinds, the rods & the cones, the general arrangement of which has been given in the old description, page 358. The rods are much more numerous than the cones, except at the yellow spot, where only cones are found. Both rods and cones consist of two very different segments, an inner one and an outer one; the separation between which segments occurs, in the case of the rods, about the middle of their length, and in the case of the cones, towards the junction of their middle & outer thirds. In the rods both segments are very nearly of the same size & shape, the inner segment being simply a little bulged towards its middle. In the cones, on the contrary, the inner segment is much wider than the outer one, the latter appearing merely as a pointed appendix to the former; both segments are also shorter, the outer one especially: The cones do not reach the pigmentary layer, while the rods are partly embedded in it. The inner segments of both rods & cones are marked by two sets of longitudinal strice, the external or superficial, & the internal or deep. The external or superficial strice are well represented in the figure on page 613 of the Eighth Edition of "Quain's Anatomy." These striae appear to be due to delicate longitudinal fibres of connective tissue, which, on the one hand, are continued from the connective tissue of the outer molecular layer, and, on the other hand, are prolonged upon the outer segments, giving rise to the superficial striation which these also present (Max Schultze). These fibres form " basket works " or " cradles " for the support of the rods & cones. The deep or internal strice are well represented in the figure on page 612 of the above- mentioned Edition of " Quain's Anatomy." They are faintly visible also in the figure on page 613, where, in the upper three-fourths of the inner segment of the cone, they are seen to be superadded to the superficial striae, which alone exist in the lower fourth. This internal striation exists only in the outer part of the inner segment. It ends somewhat abruptly, in the rods at the junction of the middle & outer thirds, in the cones at the junction of the middle & inner thirds. Thus both rods and cones present an inner or basal portion (inner third of the cones, inner two-thirds of the rods) which presents no deep or internal striation, and is either homogeneous or more or less granular. Both in the rods and in the cones, this homogeneous basal portion is continuous internally with the corresponding fibre & granule of the outer molecular layer, - with the corresponding rod-fibre & rod-granule in the case of the rods, with the corresponding cone-fibre «fe cone-granule, in the case of the cones. The outer segments of both rods & cones also present a double striation: firstly the longi- itidinal striation above described as being prolonged upon them from the inner segments (which longitudinal striation is less evident, however, on the outer segments of the cones than on the outer segments of the rods); and secondly a well marked transverse striation especially evident on the outer segments of the cones. This transverse striation corresponds to the lines of separation of a series of superimposed discs, into which the outer segments have a tendency to break up, especially when dipped into aqueous fluids, or otherwise submitted to the effects of imbibition. Eespecting the nature of the rods and cones, it is suggested by Max Schultze that only the inner segments are nervous elements; that the outer ones are mere physical or mechanical appen- dages comparable to the auditory hairs, the hair-like processes of the olfactory membrane of amphibia, reptiles, etc.; and that the two segments are connected together merely by a common sheath formed by the longitudinal fibres of connective tissue already described. This view is sup- ported by the fact that, while the inner segments are easily stained by carmine, iodine, etc., the outer ones, on the contrary, are scarcely coloured by these reagents. Pigmentary Layer. Has been very carefully described by Max Schultze, who has shown that it is intimately blended with the outer part of the layer of the rods & cones. It consists of a single layer of hexagonal nucleated cells. The upper or outer part of these cells—that which is turned towards the choroid—is flattened, devoid of pigment, and usually contains the nucleus. The lower or inner part is loaded with pigment granules, and is prolonged into numerous dependent processes, which partly fill up the intervals between the rods & the tapering ends of the cones. It is these processes, which, in the embryo, obliterate little by little the cavity of the primary optio vesiclo by joining its two walls into one membrane.