53 ?HE FIBULA-2nd Tablet. CLASSICAL DESCRIPTIONS OF THE SHAFT. There are in tMs country two different classical descriptions of the shaft of the fibnla ; the one is given bv Holden, Quain, & Wilson; the other by Gray. Both descriptions recognise f^n-e borders & t/ircc surfaces, and, at first sight, they appear identical. They are far from being so, however, for of the three borders enumerated in both, there are but two that correspond, viz., the •'-;'.. /' & the pcsurior (antero- external & postero-external borders of the Author) : and c : the three surfaces, there is but one, the external, respecting which the descriptions agree. Of the two ridges which exist on the inner aspect of the bone, the i}t:cycs::ci(S ridge & the oblique line (which ridges the Author has described respectively as the antero-internal & postero-internal borders) , the latter ridge is taken as the inner border of the bone by Holden, Qaain, it "Wilson, while it is the former that is called the inner border by Gray. This first k apparently slight difference brings about other & more important discrepancies in the delimitation k designation of the surfaces : - Thus we find on the inner aspect of the bone : An Inner Surface cr-" a Pestcri^r Sirrf-z:-: (Holden, Quaiu, Wilson) ; An Anterior Surface an lar..-'- Surf.zcc (Gray) ; Gray's Inner Surface'' surface being however very difierent from the "Inner Surface''^ of Holden, Quain, k Wilson, as will immediately appear: - Holden^ Qnain, & Wilscn's Inner Surface - is the smaUest of the three. It is bounded in front by the anterior border of the bone (antero-external border of the Author), and behind by the oblique line above mentioned. It is divided by the intcrcsseciis rilge into an " antcricr JsKisn " for extensor longus digitorum, extensor proprius pollicis & peroneus tertius, and a '^posterior f jrtion" for tibialis posticus. Gray's Inner Surface " - is on the contrary the largest, and occupies nearly two- thirds of the circumference of the bone: it is bounded in front by the interosseoas ridge, behind by the posterior border (postero-external border of the Author). It is divided by the .7-;;-into an " anterior fortiori" for tibialis posticus, (correspond- iog to the •• ::n " of the former "inner surfao:," ) and a " j!os:erior /artiefz" for soleus oc zexor loii^us pollicis. On the other hand Holden. Qnain. & Wilson's '"'Posterior Surface"(the Posterior Suk- PACE of the Author, for they are identical) - Are bat the posterior part of the Inxek Surface " of Gray; - and Gray's " Anterior Surface '' (^i^d the Ajn-teriok Surface of the Author, for they are both the same) - Are but the anterior part of the " IxyEK Surface " of Holden, Quain, iS: Wilson. It is with the hope of clearing up difficulties which have puzzled many, that the Author has presented a third original description of the shaft of the fibula, and that he has ventured to compare k discuss the descrioti^iis of the bono as girea by eminent and well-known anatomises.