275 THE CARDIAC PLEXUSES. The cardiac nerves form two primary cardiac plexuses termed the superficial & the deep or great, and two secondary plexuses, the anterior & the posterior coronary, which two latter plexuses are derived from the preceding, as are also in part the anterior & the posterior pulmonary plexuses. SUPERFICIAL CARDIAC PLEXUS — The smaller. Is situated beneath arch of aorta in front of right pulmonary artery and on right side of ductus arteriosus. It com- municates by several filaments with the left half of the deep cardiac plexus. It is formed by the left superior cardiac nerve of the sympathetic, the left inferior cervical cardiac branch of the pneumogastric, and by several filaments from the deep cardiac plexus. It often presents a small ganglion, the ganglion of Wrisberg. It gives off the greater part of anterior coronary plexus, and several filaments to anterior pulmonary plexus of left side. DEEP OR GREAT CARDIAC PLEXUS — The larger. Is situated between trachea & arch of aorta, its right half lying above right branch of pulmonary artery, its left half lying rather on left side of trachea and being connected by several filaments with the superficial plexus. It is usually formed by every one of the cardiac nerves excepting the left superior cardiac nerve of sympathetic & left inferior cervical cardiac nerve of pneumogastric. Its right half sends branches - behind right pulmonary artery to posterior coronary plexus & to right auricle; - in front of right pulmonary artery, outwards, to right anterior pulmonary plexus, inwards, in front of pulmonary trunk to anterior coroaaiy pi ex as. - Its left half gives off": - several filaments to superficial cardiac plexus, numerous fila- ments to posterior coronary plexus & to left auricle, a few branches to left anterior pulmonary plexus. ANTERIOR CORONARY PLEXUS — Is derived chiefly from the superficial cardiac plexus, but partly also from the deep. It passes forwards between aorta & pulmonary artery and accompanies the left or anterior coronary artery & its branches. POSTERIOR CORONARY PLEXUS — is derived chiefly from the left half of the deep cardiac plexus, but partly also from the right. Its branches accompany the right or posterior coronary artery and its branches. The filaments of the coronary plexuses ramify in the substance of the heart and beneath the pericardium & endocardium. Numerous small ganglia are found upon them, especially in the vicinity of the boundary rings between the auricles & ventricles.