89 TASCIM & SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES of the HAND & WRIST. FASCIiS — Are rather ligaments than fasciae proper, and are therefore described here. Anterior Annular Ligament of the Wrist - Continuous above with deep fascia of forearm, and below with palmar fascia; extends from Pisifor7n bone d^" tmciform process of tmcifo7'm to Tubercle of scaphoid, &^ ridge on anterior surface of trapezium. It is pierced by tendon of flexor carpi radialis. Beneath it pass the flexores sublimis & profundus dip;itorura enclosed in one synovial sheath, the flexor longus pollicis enclosed in another sheath, and the median n. Into its anterior surface & upper border are inserted a few fibres of the palmaris longus & flexor carpi ulnaris. From its lower border arise in part the abductor, opponens & outer head of flexor brevis pollicis, and the flexor brevis & opponens minimi digit!. Posterior Annular Ligament of the Wrist - Thinner than foregoing, from Ctmeiforvi pisiform bones y and lower part of ulna to Styloid process cr= ridges on posterior aspect of radius. Presents six divisions or compartments lined each of them with a separate synovial membrane, and which, from without inwards, correspond to the following osseous grooves, and transmit the following muscles :- 1. - Corresponds to shallow groove on outer side of styloid process of radius. - Trans- mits extensores ossis metacarpi p}-imi irJernodii pollicis. 2. - Corresponds to broad shalloiv groove on posterior aspect of styloid process. — Trans7nits extensores carpi radiates longior brevior. 2' - Co7'responds to nai'row deep groove on back of lotver extremity of radius. — Trans77iits extensor secundi internadiipollicis. 4. - Corresponds to broad &^ shallow groove on back of lower extremity of radius. - Trans7?iits extensores i^idicis &^ co77i77mnis digitoru77i. ^. - Cor7'esponds to groove at point of articulation of radius ^ tilna. - T7'ans77iits extensor 77iini7ni digiti,. 6. — Corresponds to gi'oove on back of head of tilna. - T7'a7is77iits extensor carpi ulnaris. Palmar Fascia — Consists of Two Lateral Portions - Thin. Cover muscles of thumb & little finger, and send pro- cesses between them. Central Portion - Thick, strong, triangular; firmly adherent to integument; covers superficial palmar arch, flexor tendons, & median & ulnar nerves, and gives origin internally to palmaris brevis. It is narrow above, where it receives expanded tendon of palmaris longus, and is attached to anterior annular ligament; and broad below, where it divides into four slips bound together by transverse fibres. Each slip subdivides into two processes, which processes embrace the flexor tendons, and become attached to bases of first phalanges & glenoid ligaments. Between the slips are seen the palmar interosseous & digital arteries, the terminal branches of the median & ulnar nerves, & the tendons of the lumbricales. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES — Are articular & tendinous. Articular - Five : - J. - Me7nb7'a7ta Saccifor77iis of the inferior radio-ulnar articulation. 2. - Sy7iovial 77ie77ibrane of the radio-ca7pal articulation, comprised between the first row of carpal bones & the under surface of the radius & trian- gular fibro-cartilage. J. - Gene7'al synovial 77ie77ibrane of the ca7'pus, comprised between bones of first row, between bones of second row, between the two rows of bones, between the second row of carpal bones & the four inner metacarpal bones, and finally between the four inner metacarpal bones. 4. - Synovial membrane of the carpo-77ietacarpal articulation of the thianb. 5. - Synovial me7nbrane of the articulation between the cuneiform 6^ pisiform. Tendinous - Vide Anterior & Posterior Annular Ligaments.