(50 MUSCLES ATTACHED to BONES of SKULL. The muscles attached to the FRONTAL BONE Are three in nnmber, and are attached as follows: Orbicularis Palpebrarum - Internal angular process. Corrugator Supercilii - Inner extremity of superciliary ridge. Temporal - Temporal ridge & surface behind it. II OCCIPITAL — Are eleven in number, and are attached as follows: - OccipilO'Frontalis ( Occipital Portion) - Outer two-thirds of superior curved line. Sterno- Cleido-Mastoid or Sterno-Mastoid - Outer two-thirds of superior curved line. Trapezius - External occipital protuberance & inner third of superior curved line. Splenius Capitis - Outer part of rough surface between the superior & inferior curved lin Coniplexus - Inner part of rough depression between the two curved lines. Rectus Capitis Posticus Major - Inner part of inferior curved line & rough surface beneath Pectus Capitis Posticus Minor- Outer part of inferior curved line & rough surface beneath Obliquus Capitis Stiperior - Rough depression between the two curved lines externally complex Rectus Capitis Anticus Major - Basilar process in front of rectus capitis anticus minor. Rectus Capitis Anticus Minor - Basilar process behind rectus capitis anticus major, Rectus Lateralis - Jugular process. TEMFOBAL — Are twelve in number, and are attached as follows: - Masseter - Superjicialportion, anterior two-thirds of lower border of zygomatic arch. Deep portion, posterior third of lower border & inner surface of zygomatic at , Temporal - Outer surface of squamous portion; temporal ridge. Sterno- Cleido-Mastoid or Sterno-Mastoid - Anterior border & outer surface of mastoid proc . Splenius Capitis - Posterior border & apex of mastoid process. Trac^elo-Mastoid -Posterior border & apex of mastoid process beneath foregoing. Retrahens Aure?n, or Auricularis Posterior - Outer surface of mastoid process. Digastric - Digastric groove on inner side of mastoid process. Levator Palati - Under surface of apex of petrous portion. Tensor Tympani - Under surface of apex of petrous portion behind & externally to f j- go :- Stylo-Pharyngeiis - Inner side of base of styloid process. Stylo-Hyoideus - Middle of outer surface of styloid process. Stylo-Glossus - Anterior & outer aspect of apex of styloid process. SPHENOID — Are eleven in number, and are attached as follows: - Temporal - Outer surface of greater wing. Lnternal Pterygoid - Pterygoid fossa, and more particularly from inner surface of extei 1 pterygoid pi J. External Pterygoid - Pterygoid ridge & portion of under surface of great wing betwee t & base of pterygoid process ; outer surface of external pterygoid pi ). Superior Constrictor - Hamular process & lower third of free margin of internal pteryj i pi 3. Tensor Palati - Scaphoid fossa at base of internal pterygoid plate. Internal 6^ Inferior Recti 6^ Lower Head of External Rectus - Through ligament of Z i, from whole of circumference of optic foramen, except upper & outer j t. Stiperior Rectus 6^ Upper Head of External Rectus -TJiiiter margin & upper part of o ir margin of optic forar i. Lrvaior Palpebra Superioris - Under surface of lesser wing in front of optic foramen k ternally to superior obli 3. Superior Oblique - Under surface of lesser wing in front of optic foramen & internall o levator palpebrse superL 3. PARIETAL BONE - One, the Temporal - Temporal ridge & surface below it.