212 STRUCTURE of the MEDULLA OBLONGATA-lst Tablet. Pre?ents for examination longitudiiial, antero-posterior & transverse fibres, and grey matter. LONGITUDINAL FIBRES — Form five bundles continuous on the one hand with the columns o( i the cord, and on the other Avith the longitudinal fibres of the mesocephalon, i.e.., three large, ones, anterior pyramid, lateral tract <2r= fascictihis ameattis, and two smaller ones, ohvary fasciailin or fillet, ^ posterior pyramid or fascictilus gracilis. Their mode of Continuation with the Columns of the Cord - is as follows.- - A^"rEl^I0R Pyramid - With ontero-internal bundle of lateial column of opposite side, and witb innermost bundle of anterior column of f-ame side. The former bundle forms the innermost decussating & by far greater portion of the anterior pyramid; the latter bundle forms that small outer portion of the ant. pyramid, the fibres of which do not decussate in the middle line Lateral Tract - \Vith lateral column of same side. Fasciculus Cuneatus - \yith external & greater part of posterior column, and with external oi posterior bundles of anterior & lateral columns all of same side, Olivaky Fasciculus or Fillet - Partly with middle bundle of anterior column of same side; its other fibres are derived from the olivary nucleus Posterior Pyramid ok Fasciculus Gracilis - With posterior column of same side. Their mode of Continuation with the Longitudinal Fibres of the Meso-cephalon- Is as follows: - Anterior Pyramid - Ascends through the mesocephalon to the inferior or fasciculated portion oi the cms cerebri, from whence its fibres are prolonged to the corpora striata, N.—The cerebellar fibres & the fibres to the olivary body, which are said in some of out best standard woiks on Anatomy to be derived from the anterior pyramid, are derived not from the anterior pyramid itself, that is to say not from the pyramidal-shaped bundle, which, in the surface description of the cord, is called the "anterior pyramid," but from the middle & external bundles of the anterior cohimn of the cord. (Vide continuation upwards of the white fibres of the columns of the cord into the medulla oblongata). Lateral Tract - Divides into three bundles as follows (or rather it is the lateral /ohimnoftlu co7'd which thus divides, for the division here referred to takes place a little below the point of decussation of the pyramids, that is to say below the point which is usually taken as the boundary between the medulla & the cord): - Antero-internal Bimdle -VtiZzes upwards & inwards, decussating with its fellow, and forms the innermost & greater part of the anterior pyramid of the opposite side. ' Middle Bundle - Ascends with the fasciculus gracilis beneath the grey matter of the floor of the ' 4th ventricle, forming part of the fasciculus teres. JExternal or Posterior Bundle - Passes upwards & backwards to join the fasciculus cuneatus, and goes to form part of the inferior peduncle of the cerebellum. Fasciculus Cuneatus - Passes up to the cerebellum with the external or posterior bundles of the: ! anterior & lateral columns of the cord, forming with them the inf. peduncle of the cerebellum.!i ; Olivary Fasciculus or Fillet - Divides into two bundles as follows : - Antero-intei^nal Bundle - A&CBnds through the mesocephalon with the middle bundle of fibres , of the lateral tract, and joins the upper part or tegmentum of the crus cerebri. Postero-exte) nal Bundle - Passes upwards & outwards through the mesocephalon, issues from the transverse fibres of the pons externally to the crus cerebri, and finally ascends over the superior peduncle of the cerebellum to the tubercula quadrigemina, decussating with its fellow above the aqueduct of Sylvius. Posterior Pyramid or Fasciculus Gracilis - Ascends with the middle bundle of the lateral column beneath the grey matter of the floor of the 4th ventricle, forming part of the fascicn- lus teres. ANTERO-POSTERIOR FIBRES — Form a median septum most marked at the upper part of the medulla. They partly decussate with each other (Clarke). Some emerge from the antero- median fissure, or pass between the anterior pyramid & the olivary body and emerge below the roots of the 9th nerve; these two sets form the arciCorm fibres mentioned in the surface de- scription of the medulla. Others emerge from the postero-median fissure, and form the linesei , transversa? of the floor of the 4th ventricle, ' TRANSVERSE FIBRES — The arciform fibres form a supoificial set. A deep set join the olivarj nuclei & the nuclei contained in the posteiuor pyramids & processus cuneati. ^REY MATTER —Vide next Tablet. ||