19 HE OCCIPITAL BONE Articulates with parietals, mastoid & petrons portions of temporals, sphenoid & atlas, and presents: OUTER SURFACE — Convex. Presents from behind forwards: Ext occipital protuberance for ligamentum rnichse; Ext. occipital crest, from which are given off laterally the Sup. curved line, for trapezius, sterno-mastoid & occipito-frontalis; and the Inf, curved line for recti capitis postici major & minor which are also inserted into depression below. - Between the two curved lines are inserted the complexus, splenius & superior oblique. Foramen magnum for cord and its membranes, spinal accessory nerves & vertebral arteries, on outer side of which foramen are the Condyles^ oblong, converging in front, convex from before backwards, looking downwards & outwards; rough inwardly for attachment of check ligaments, and having in front Ant. condyloid foramen for hypoglossal nerve; having behind Post, condyloid fossa sometimes perforated by posterior condyloid fora- men for a small vein to lateral sinus, and having on their outer side the yugular process for rectus capitis lateralis & lateral occipito-atloid ligament; Basilar process presenting in middle line the Pharyngeal spine for tendinous raphe &> superior constrictor of pharynx, and laterally a Rough depression for recti capitis antici major & minor. INNER SURFACE — Concave, presents from behind forwards: Crucial ridge, to centre of which corresponds the torcular Herophili, and of which the Upper division ascends to superior angle, and is deeply grooved for superior longitudinal sinus & falx cerebri; Inf division^ or int. occipital crest, descends to foramen magnum where it bifurcates; gives attachment to falx cerebelli. Lateral divisions bound posteriorly the inferior occipital fossae, and are deeply grooved for lateral sinuses & tentorium cerebelli ^ Foramen magnum, near side of which are the Ant. condyloid foramina & sometimes the Post, condyloid foramina. Basilar groove, which supports medulla oblongata & pons, and on each side of which is a half Groove for inferior petrosal sinus. BORDERS -Four: Superior - Form lambdoid suture by articulating with parietals. Inferior - Articulate with mastoid & petrous portions of temporal, and assisfc in forming jugular foramen or foramen lacerum posterius- ANGLES - Four: Superior - Received between the two parietal bones, and corresponds to posterior fontanelle. Inferior - Joins with body of sphenoid about I8th or 20th year. Lateral - Received between posterior inferior angle of parietal and mastoid portion of temporal; presents on its inner surface outer end of groove for lateral sinua.