88 THE AKTIOULATIONS of the HAND Are Carpali Carpo-metacarpaJ, Mefacarpo-metacarpaty Metacarpo-phalan^^alj 6^ Phalangeal. CAKPAL ARTICULATIONS - Are: - Articulations of Bones of First Row. Scaphoid, Semilunar & CuNEiroRM - Are joined together by two arthrodial artic. uJations, of which the ligaments are; Dorsal J ^ Two of each, of which the interosseous are the strongest & most Fahnary > important, and the palmar the least important j they join dorsal Interosseous. J palmar & upper part of contif^uous surfaces of the three bones. ' PisiFOKM - Is joined to cuneiform by a separate arthrodial articulation having a special synovial membrane, and two strong ligaments, which latter connect the pisiform bone to the unciform & to the base of the 5th metacarpal, Articulations of Bones of Second Row. Trapezium, Trapezoid, Os Magnum & Unciform - Are joined together by three Dorsal i arthrodial articulations, of which the ligaments are: Palmar. \ Three of each, of which the dorsal are the thickest & strongest. Iiiterosseozis - Three, strong. Sometimes only two, the one between trapezium & trape. zoid being occasionally wanting Articulation of the First Row of Bones with the Second Row of Bones- Consists laterally of two arthrodial articulations between the cuneiform I unciform and between the scaphoid and the trapezium & trapezoid, and h the centre, of a kind of enarthodial articulation formed by the reception ol the head of the os magnum & of the upper part of the unciform into concavitj of scaphoid, semilunar & cuneiform .-The liaraments are • Dorsal - Short, irregular. Palmar - GorsxQX^Q towards os magnum. Lateral - Continuous with lateral ligaments of wrist-joint; connect scaphoid to trape. zium, and cuneiform to unciform CARPO-METACARPAL ARTICULATIONS. Articulation of Trapezium with Metacarpal Bone of Thumb - is an artic ulation by reciprocal reception; the articular surfaces are saddle-shaped that of the trapezium being convex from side to side & concave from befon backwards, and that of the first metacarpal bone being concave from sidt to side & convex from before backwards. The bones are joined together by i Capsular Ligament - Thick, but loose, strongest externally & behind, and lined by separate synovial membrane Articulations of Carpus with Four Inner Metacarpal Bones-Are four arthrodis Second Metacarpal Bone and Trapezium, Trapezoides & Os Magnum; Third Metacarpal Bone „ Os Magnum ; Fourth Metacarpal Bone „ Os Magnum & Unciform; Fifth Metacarpal Bone „ Unciform. - The ligaments are: Dorsal - The strongest; two to each metacarpal bone except the 5th which has but one; Pahnar - Thinner ; three to 3rd metacarpal bone. Interosseous - Connect adjacent surfaces of 3rd & 4th metacarpal bones to contiguon inferior angles of os magnum & unciforni METACARPO-METACARPAL ARTICULATIONS — The metacarpal bone of th thumb is not connected to the other bones of the metacarpus. The four inner meta carpal bones are connected to each other both at their carpal & at their digital extremities Carpal Extremities - Are connected by three arthrodial articulations, of whic) Dorsal, i ^ . . , the ligaments are; Palmar \ -trregular, mainly transverse. Interosseous - Pass between the bones just below their articular facets. Digital Extremities - Are all joined together by the Transverse Ligament of the Metacarpus - Single transverse band which crosses the who! width of the metacarpus, and blends inferiorly with the glenoid ligaments c the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations METACARPO-PHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS — Are condyloid articulation between rounded heads of the metacarpal bones & oval concave articular surfaces of th corresponding phalanges. - The ligaments are Anterior or Glenoid (Cruveilhier) - Thick fibro-cartilaginous structures continuous later ally with the lateral ligaments, and above with tV.e transverse ligament c the metacarpus; their posterior aspect is lined with synovial membrane and forms part of cavity for head of metacarpal bone; their anterior aspec is grooved for passage of flexor tendons, with steath of which tendon it blends on either sid( Lateral - Strong rounded cords from posterior tubercle on sidesof beads of metacarpa bones to glenoid ligament & sides of first phalange; PHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS — Are ginglymoid articulations; the distal extremitie of the two first phalanges are trochlear in shape; the corresponding extremities of th second & third phalanges present two lateral articular concavities separated by a me dian ridge. The ligaments are the same as the in foregoing artioolationj jf'or Syaovial Membranes of Carpus, VidQ next Tablet.