82 STERNO-OLAVICULAR ARTICULATION Is an articulation by reciprocal reception (Crureilhier) between the clavicular facet of tb sternum & the inner extremity of the clavicle, or rather, as is remarked by Gosselin, betwee the clavicular facet of the sternum & the inner surface of the interarticul ar >fibro-cartilagi Between these two latter a,rticular surfaces there is a most perfect reciprocal adaptation: the sternal articular surface is concave from above downwards & outwards and convex ftroi before backwards ; the corresponding surface of the interarticular fibro-cartilage is concav from before backwards and convex from above downwards & outward, The interarticular fibro-cartilage divides the cavity of the articulation into two par lined each of them by a separate synovial membrane. The synovial membrane betwee the sternum & the interarticular fibro-car;ilage is the largest & loosest; it is prolonge between the contiguous articular surfaces of the clavicle & of the first costal cartilage. The interarticular fibro-cartilage is thickest at its circumference, especially above & behind its inner surface, as aforesaid, is concave from before backwards & convex from above dowt •wards & outwards. Its outer surface is concave, and is attached to the clavicle at its nppe & back part. Its circumference is attached to the capsular & to the anterior & posteric ligaments, and, inferiorly, to the cartila'^e of the first rib. - Occasionally the fibro-cartilag is perforated in the centre j the two synovial membranes then communieat) LIGAMENTS-Are: Capsular - Thin & ill.defined, from Circitmference of inner extremity of clavicle to { Margiti of sternal articular Jacet. ' Ant. Sterno-Clavicular - Strong & broad oblique band from Front oj inner extremity of clavicle to I Upper &^ front part of first piece of sternum. :! Post. Sterno-Clavicular - Thinner & narrower; obliquely from ! Back of inner extremity of clavicle to Upper 6^ back pari of first piece of sternum. Interclavicular - Thick flat band, which passes in a curved direction from Upper part of inner extremity of one clavicle to Upper part of inner extremity of other^ being closely connected with tho upp margin of the sternuij Costo-Clavicular or Rhomboid - Short flat cord from jy upper &= injier part of ca7^tilage of first rib to 'r Rhomboid impression on iinder surface oJ clavicle. ' This ligament belongs, properly speaking, not to the sterno-clavicul but to the costo-clavicular articulation. It is usually describ here, however, as it contributes materially to retain the clavicle its situation. - The costo-clavicular articulation is, in fact, a ps of the sterno-clavicular, and the articulation of the inner extremi of the clavicle might well be called the sterno'costo-clavicul MOVEMENTS —The stemo-clavicular or sterno-costo-clavicular articulation admits of mo^ ments in every direction, circumduction included, these movemei are not extensive, however, being limited, by the connexion of t clavicle with the scapula & the upper limb. - The interarticu fibro-cartilage moves with the inner extremity of the clavicle, glidi freely on the articular surface of the sternn