36 THE SCAPULA —1st Tablet. Lar"-e flat, triangular, situated at back of shoulder, and presents two surfaces, three borders, ° ' ° three angles. ANTERIOR SURFACE or VENTER — Concave; forms subscapular fossa, which fossa is deepest at upper & outer part, and presents from within outwards: narrow marginal surface for serratus magnus, which surface becomes broader & triangular opposite the superior & inferior angles; roiioh obliqtie rid<^es converging upwards & outwards for tendinous intersections of sub- ^ ^ scapularis j roundedpromment ridge descending from neck of scapula j deep vertical groove for lower part of subscapularis. POSTERIOR SURFACE or DORSUM — Divided by spine into: Supraspinous Fossa - The smaller, smooth, broadest internally, for supraspinatus, Infraspinous Fossa - The larger, slightly convex towards middle, concave on either side. Presents internally a few oblique ridges for tendinous intersections of infraspinatus, and externally a rough aponeurotic ridge^ which cuts off a prominent marginal sttrface divided in two by an oblique line & crossed by a groove for dorsalis scapulae artery, which surface gives origin in its narrow upper two-thirds, to the teres minor, and in its lower & broader third, to the teres major & occcasionally to some of the fibres of the latissimus dorsi. TllG Spine - is a prominent triangular plate, which crosses obliquely the dorsum of th© scapula towards its upper part, and which is continued into the acromion It presents:] SURPACES: Upper Lower - Concave, forming part respectively of the supra- & infra spinous fossae. Borders: Anterior - Continuous with the remainder of the bone. Posterior - Broad & thick. Commences internally by a triangular smooth surface covered by tendon of insertion of trapezius; gives attach ment externally to this surface, to trapezius by its upper lip, to deltoid by its lower lip, External - Concave, rounded; lost above upon under surface of aero- mion, below upon neck of scapula. Acromion Process - Overhangs glenoid cavity, and is flattened & somewhat triani gular. It presents {' Surfaces : | Superior - Bough for attachment of deltoid & trapezius. * - Concave & smooth, separated by a bursa from capsule shoulder joinf Borders: Outer Inner - For deltoid & trapezius, the latter presenting a sm oval facet for clavicli Apex ~ Gives attachment to the coraco-acromial ligament.