286 STRUCTURE of the TEETH—2nd Tablet. DENTINE Resembles very compact bone both in general aspect and in chemical compositi Contains per cent/il Animal Matter, - 28, resolvable into gelatin by boiling j Earthy Matter, - 72, chiefly phosphate of lime, with a little carhonatti' of lime, phosphate of magnesia, fluoride of calcium, etc Structurally it presents: Transparent Homogeneous Solid Material, or Matrix. Dentinal Tubules - Delicate wavy canals which radiate from the pulp-cavity towardi the periphery of the tooth, and which contain minute prolongations of the super i ficial cells, or odontoblasts, of the pulp. Towards their inner extremity their diameter is about ^J^^th of an inch, an( the distance between them is about two or three times their width. | As they pass outwards they divide dichotomously several times, at first withou; greatly diminishing in size ; and they give off numerous fine lateral branches, som(i| of which anastomose with each other-, while others end in blind extremities. % Thei^j course is doubly undulatory : the undulations form an uninterrupted series o r minute spires, the primary tmdulations^ whose general direction is marked by twi or three wide and gentle curves, the secondary undulations. The latter undulation.'jj give rise to concentric shaded lines, Schreyer's lines, which must not be confoundeijj with the incremental lines or interglobular spaces hereafter described. !; Towards the periphery, both the principal tubes greatly reduced in size, ancjj their lateral branches greatly increased in number, terminate partly in minute frei extremities, partly in loops, and partly in anastomoses either with the canaliculio , the cement or with the fissured spaces of the enamel. ,| The dentinal tubules are described as having a proper wall, the dentinal sheath\ probably elastic in nature. Under ordinary circumstances this wall is undistinj' guishable from the matrix, but it becomes visible when sections of decalcifiefj; dentine are steeped in strong hydrochloric acid: the acid destroys the matrixbnjj leaves the membranous tubes intact. j| In the temporary teeth the tubules are more or less moniliform or beadecl. ;i