350 THE UTERUS. Pear-shaped & flattened from before backwards. Lies between bladder & rectum, projects inferiorly into upper end of vagina, and is re- i tained in position by its broad & round ligaments. Presents: - Fundus - broad & rounded, directed upwards & forwards, covered with peritoneum; lies i a little below level of brim of pelvis. < Body - Narrows gradually from fundus to neck, and presents • Anterior Surface - Flattened, covered by peritoneum in its upper three-fourths, j adherent to bladder in its lower fourth. ( Posterior Surface - Convex, entirely covered by peritoneum, and separated from rectum by convolutions of small intestine. Lateral Margins - Bounded from before backwards, concave from above down wards. Give attachment superiorly to the Fallopian tube, and below that tube, to the round ligament in front, & the ligament of the ovary behind. Cervix, or Neck - Constricted. Gives attachment to upper end of vagina, which canal extends a greater distance upwards behind than in front. Vaginal Extremity - Free. Presents the OS uteri bounded by a thick anterior, and a lon^ & narrow posterior lip. Cavity - Very small in conipariron with size of organ, and flattened from before backwards; triangular in boclj-, fusiform in neck, the two parts of the cavity being separated by a constriction, the os internufUy somewhat narrower than the os externum.- The cavity of the body is prolonged at each superior angle into an infundibuli- form process, at the apex of which is the minute opening of the Fallopian tube. The cavity of the cervix presents on each wall a prominent median raphe, the stem, from which small oblique rugae, the branches of the arbor vita, proceed up. wards & outwards. The so-called ovula Nabothi, closed & distended follicles at one time mistaken for ova, are frequently seen among the above rugse. LIGAMENTS OP THE UTERUS — Eight in number of which six, the anterior, poster- ior, & transverse, are formed by the peritoneum. Round Ligaments - V. next Tablet but one. Anterior Ligaments - The margins of the utero-vesical pouch of the peritoneum. Posterior Ligaments - The margins of recto-vesical pouch. Transverse orBROADLiGTS.-Formed by the peritoneum extending from side of uterus to Bide of pelvis} their free margin contains from before backwards the round ligament, Fallopian tube, & ovary.