267 }REAT SCIATIC NERVE Arises from the lumbo-sacral cord & the four upper sacral nerves, and is the continuation of the sacral plexus. Through great sacro-sciatic foramen below pyriformis, on outer side of pudio vessels & nerve. Downwards between trochanter major & tuber ischii, behind external rotator muscles & adductor magnus, to lower third of back of thigh, where it divides into external & in- ternal popliteal* Is covered by gluteus maximus & biceps. Gives off branches : - Articular - To back of hip-joint. Muscular - To hamstring muscles & adductor magnu3. EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE. The smaller of the two terminal branches of great sciatic. Along outer side of popliteal space close to biceps. Pierces peroneus longus an inch below head of fibula, and divides into anterior tibial & musculo-cutaneous. Gives off branches: - Articular - Three; accompany the two external articular & the recurrent tibial arteries to knee-joint. Cutaneous - Two or three; supply integument of outer & back part of leg; one, the communicans fibularis, crossses outer head of gastroc- nemius, and joins the communicans tibialis to form external or short saphenous nerve (V. next Tablet). Anterior Tibial Nerve - Beneath extensor longus digitorum to front of interosseous membrane; along outer side, in front of, and again along outer Eide of anterior tibial artery to front of ankle-joint. - Supplies muscles of front of leg, and divides into : External Branch - Beneath extensor brevis digitorum, which it supplies; becomes ganglionic, and supplies articulations of tarsus. Imteenal Branch - "With dorsalis pedis artery along inner side of dorsum of foot; supplies adjoining sides of great & second toes, and joins with musculo-cutaneous. MuSCUlO-CutaneOUS Nerve - Between peronei muscles, which it supplies, and extensor longus digitorum ; pierces deep fascia about lower third of front of leg, and divides into: Internal Branch - Supplies inner side of great toe, adjoining sides of 2nd & 3rd toes, & integument of inner side of foot; joins with internal saphenous & anterior tibial. External Branch - Supplies adjoining sides of 3rd, 4th, & 5th toes, and integ. ument of outer side of foot; 'oins with external or short saphenous.