358 THE EETINA Is a delicate nervous membrane, thicker behind than in front, translucent and of a light pinkish colour | when fresh, but becoming white and opaque very soon after death. , Tf li-nP^ in its loosterior portion, or retina proper, the posterior 4 of the eye, and is continued forwards as far as i ?he base Sf the his by its ciliary portion, a greVish membrane destitute of nervous elements, which is I t StimSy blended with the ciliary processes, which he in front of it, and with the peripheral portion of | ^ the suspensory ligament of the lens or zonula of Zmn, wnich lies behind, Its ototer surface is in contact with the pigmentary layer of the choroid. Its inner surface rests upon the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous body. In front the retina proper ends in a jagged margin, the ora serrata. Behind about of an inch to the inner side of the axis of the eye, the retina, becomes continuous Tdth the | optic nerve^and presents a slight rounded eminence, the coUiculus, which is forma by the expansion o ! the nei-ve fibres, and from the centre of which the arteria centrahs retime is seen to emerge. _ Exactly in the centre of the posterior part of the eye, the retina presents an eUiptical elevated yellowish spot, 1 optic nerve?and presents a slight rounded eminence, the coUiculus, which is formed by the expansi^on d the veUow^'spot,' Ta^'cu'irTuteiTmbusTuteus of So^meringrin the centi^ of which is £ slight depression, tlie fovea centralis, formerly termed the foramen of Sommering, on account of its presenting somewhat ol the appearance of a hole. STKUCTUEE.—The retina presents for examination three layers, the membrana limitans and the fibres Muller. ! Externa on Columnar Layer, or Jacob's Membrane-Is formed of rods perpendicularly disposed' intermixed between which are bulbous particles or cones, of which the broad ends rest upon tJit, granular layer, while the pointed extremities are turned towards the choroid. Both rods and cones _ Ippear to be delicate ceUs with granular albuminous contents UvoUiker).. To the base of each cone | corresponds a pyriform ceU, which forms the extremity of a fibre of Muller; whether the rods are simi lai-ly connected with MiiUerian fibres is uncertain. I Middle, or Granular Layer—is formed of two strata of nuclear particles and cells containing a ven i large nucleus (Kolliker), which strata are separated from each other by an intermediate transparent layer slightly fibrillated in the vertical direction. *The outermost stratum is the thickest. IJif, particles of the inner stratum are larger than those of the outer, and are flattened. ,i Internal, or Nervous Layer—consists of an outer stratum of nerve-cells, and of an inner stratum o il nerve fibres, which latter stratum is formed by the expansion of the fibres of the optic nerve. Tli( nerve-cells present from two to six ramified offsets, by which they are connected with each other with the termination of the nerve-fibres, and with the corpuscles of the internal granular layer. Th( nerve-fibres are continuous with those of the optic-nerve; they are disposed in small radiating anc inter-communicating bundles, which form a delicate web with narrow elongated meshes. They have lost their dark outline, and consist of an axis-cylinder only. They terminate by joining the of the nerve cells. Membrana Limitans—Is an extremely thin and delicate nucleated membrane, which separates the_ retina from the vitreous body. On its retinal surface it receives the insertions of the delicate fasciculi. ' connective tissue, of which it is now believed that the inner part of the MuUerian fibres consists Fibres op Muller.—Their history is still incomplete. Henle, indeed, believes that they are but artificial products, the result of coagulation by re-agents. They were first described as extending verticallyi from the ends of both the rods and the cones to the membrana limitans, becoming connected in their course with the nuclear particles of the granular layer; their connection with the rods is, however, uncertain. It would also appear that the vertical fibres described in the inner layers of the retina are: only cellular in nature. ^ver the Yellow spot the nerve-fibres are absent; Jacob's membrane is formed of cones only, and these! are small, though closely aggregated. Over the fovea centralis the granular layer is absent, as are also the fibres of Muller. The retina is,; therefore, very thin, so much so that the dark pigment of the choroid is distinctly seen through it, so as to give rise to the appearance of a foramen. The Ciliary Portion of the Eetina is formed of elongated nucleated cells, with fiat or forked bases i resting upon the membrana limitans, which cells are believed by Kolliker to correspond to the above- mentioned pyriform cells of the MuUerian fibres. The Arteries or the Eetina are derived from a branch of the ophthalmic, the arteria centralis retinae, which pierces the optic nerve, passes forward a.mong its fibres and through the porus opticus, and divides into four or five branches, which latter are at first situated between the retina and the mem- brana Umitans, but soon pass between the bundles of nerve-fibres and form a delicate network in the ,: stratum of the nerve cells. These branches extend as far forward as the ora serrata, where they form a | circular capillary plexus (Kolliker), but not a distinct circular vessel, as is the case in some animals. The vclnf> fi)llow the same course as the arteries-