327 STRUCTURE of the TRACHEA & BRONCHI Presents for examination • - Cartilages - 6 to 8, 9 to 12,16 to 20, respectively, to right & left bronchi and trachea. They form two-thirds of a circle, and are flat externally & convex from above downwards internally. - The first & the last cartilages of the trachea are thicker & broader than the rest; the lower edge of the latter is prolonged downwards towards its middle, and is at the same time curved backwards, so as to divide the lower circumference of the cartilage into two imperfect rings, which rings form the commencement of the bronchi. Occasionally some of the cartilages bifurcate at one of their extremities, others sometimes join with the neighbouring ones. Fibrous IVEenibraiie - strong, but extensible. Connects the margins of the cartilages, and, dividing into two layers, extends over both of their surfaces; the layer that covers the outer surface of the cartilages being the thickest. Muscular Fibres - Form a continuous pale reddish layer between the fibrous & mucous membranes in the posterior flattened portion. They are External Longitudinal - Arise from the ends of the cartilages, and pass upwards & downwards. Deep Transverse -Connect the extremities of the cartilages. Elastic Fibres - I^ie beneath the mucous membrane, and are longitudinal in direction. They are most abundant in the membranous portion, where they form thick bundles, which bundles give rise to visible elevations of the mucous membrane. IMUCOUS Membrane - Of a pale rosy colour. Covered with columnar ciliated epithelium resting on a bed of stratified nucleated cells; the action of the cilia tends to drive the secretions upwards. Qlands - Are of three sizes, and are found in three situations: ~ Large conglomerate glands lie between the meshes & upon the outer surface of the fibrous membrane in the posterior or membranous portion; smaller glands are found between the layers of the fibrous membrane connecting the cartilaginous rings; still smaller glands are everywhere scattered beneath the mucous membrane. Vessels & Nerves - Arteries. From the inferior thyroid & the bronchial. - Veins. Join the thyroid plexuses & the bronchial veins. - Lymphatics. Open into the mediastinal glands, - Nerves. From the trunk & the recurrent branch of the pneumogastric, & from the sympathetic.