373 rHE TRIANGLES of the NECK. The classical descriptions of the side of the neck, though a pretty faithful oxpos^ of the parts seen as they lie on the dissecting-room table after a few hours of careful work with the scalpel, become inaccurate & useless when taken to represent the parts as they exist in the ttndissected body, and as they present themselves to the surgeon in the person of his patient: - To mention but one of the facts hitherto set aside by descriptive Anatomists, the sterno-mastoid is now known to cover the whole of the vasculo-nervous bundle of the neck, and even to extend forwards superiorly as far^is, or very nearly as far as, the angle of the jaw, as long as its sheath of deep cervical fascia remains intact. - What becomes then of the anterior triangle? This Tablet will therefore be found to contain little more than the mere boun- daries of the triangles & sub-triangles as they are usually described, and a co-ordinate enumeration of the jjrincipal vessels, nerves, etc., which they have hitherto been said to contain. - The Author's description of the neck will appear among the Tablets on " Operative Anatomy." ANTERIOR TRIANGLE Is bounded by sterno-mastoid, middle line of neck, lower border of jaw & line from angle of jaw to mastoid process. It is divided by anterior belly of omo-hyoid, and by stylo-hyoid & posterior belly of digastric into: Inf. Carotid Triangle - Bounded by sterno-mastoid, anterior belly of omo-hyoid, & middle line of neck; contains beneath sterno-hyoid & -thyroid: Common carotid artery, internal jugular vein, pneumogastric (S^ sympathetic ; Inferior thyroid artery, recurrent laryngeal nerve ; Trachea, thyroid gland, loiver part of larynx. Sup. Carotid Triangle - Bounded by sterno-mastoid, anterior belly of omo-hyoid, stylo-hyoid & posterior belly of digastric ; contains : Termination of common carotid artery, internal ^ external carotid arteries, cs^ first branches of the latter ; Superior thyroid, lingual, facial, internal jugular veins ; Pneumogastric, superior laryngeal, &^ sympathetic nei-ves : Hypoglossal descendens noni nerves. Upper part of larynx, lozver part of pharynx. Submaxillary Triangle - Bounded by median line, jaw-bone & line from angle of jaw to mastoid process, and by stylo-hyoid & posterior belly of digastric; contains: Submaxillary gland, facial artery & vein ; Submental artery, viylo-hyoid artery & nerve; Lower pai-t of pai-otidgland, facial ne)-ve, external carotid artery with its posterior auricular, temporal &^ internal maxillary branches ; Internal carotid, internal jugular vein, pneumogastric, syjupathetic all separated from external carotid by stylo-glossus & -pharyngeus glosso-pharyngeal n. POSTERIOR TRIANGLE Is bounded by sterno-mastoid, trapezius & clavicle. Its floor is formed from above downwards by splenius capitis, levator anguli scapulaB, posterior & middle scaleni, and superior digitation of seri-atus magnusj - a part of the complexus is sometimes seen above the splenius. It is divided by posterior belly of omo-hyoid into: Sup. or Occipital Fortion - The largest, contains: Superficial cervical plexus & spinal accessory nerve^ Transversalis colli artery & vein, Fat & lymphatic glands. Inf. or Clavicular Portion - The smallest, its size varies greatly with the extent of clavicular attachments of sterno-mastoid & trapezius, situation of omo- hyoid, and elevated or depressed position of shoulder. Contains.' Third part of subclavian aj-tery, Brachial plexus, Transversalis htimeri & transversalis colli vessels. External jugtdar vein. Fat & lympJiatic glands.