79 RETICULATIONS of the CRANIUM with the SPINE Are the occipitO'atloid and occijbiio-axoid articulations, from which articulations the atlo-axoid articulation cannot well be separated. OCCIPITO-ATLOID ARTICULATION — Consists of a double arthrodia between. condyles of occipital and superior articular surfaces of atlas; the condyles being convex from before backwards & inwards and looking downwards & outwards, and the articular surfaces of the atlas being concave from before backwards & inwards and looking upwards & inwards. The ligaments are: - Capsular - Two. Thin & loose; surround the arthrodial articulations. The synovial membranes of these articulations often communicate with that of the A K • -J. Ail -J m syndesmo-odontoid articulation. Ant. Occipito-Atloid-Two: Superficial - Strong rounded cord from Basilar process to - Atiterior tubercle of atlas > Deep - Thin & broad membrane from Anterior margin of foramen magnuvi to - Upper border of anterior arch of atlas. Post. Occipito-Atloid - Thin & broad membrane from Posterior maj'gin of foramen magnu7n to - Upper border of posterior arch of atlas* It is perforated on either side by vertebral artery & suboccipital n. Lateral Occipito-Atloid - Two. strong bands from Jugular process to - Base of transverse process of atlas, OCCIPITO-AXOID ARTICULATION — No direct contact between the two bones, but the two bones are firmly connected together, nevertheless, by the following ligts: - OCCipito-Axoid - strong broad band expanded superiorly, and which may be considered as a continuation upwards of the posterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae; from Basilar groove of occipital, where it becomes continuous with dura mater of skull, to — Posterior surface of body of axis. — It covers and conceals the Occipito-Odontoid - Three, two lateral & one median. cruciiorm ligament. Lateral Occipito-Odontoid or Check Ligaments - Strong rounded cords from Rough depression on inner side of condyles of occipital to -Sides of odontoidpr. near its apex. Median or Suspensory Occipito-Odontoid Ligament - Strong band from Anterior margin of foramen magnum to — Apex of odontoid process, - This band is situated between, & blended superiorly, with deep anterior occipito-atloid ligt., on the one hand, & upper fasciculus of cruciform iigt. on the other. Vertical Fasciculus op Cruciform Ligt. - V. below. ATLO-AXOID ARTICULATION — is a complex articulation consisting: 1. of a double arthrodia between the articular processes, the articular surfaces of which are large, flat, circular, and inclined downwards & oatwards. 2. of a double diar- throsis rotatorius between the anterior & posterior surfaces of the odontoid process, on the one hand, and the posterior & anterior surfaces respectively of the anterior arch of the atlas & of the transverse ligament, on the other hand, (atlo-odontoid & syndesmo-odontoid articulations, Cruveilhier). The ligaments are : - Capsular - Two. Thin, loose, strongest externally j surround the two arthrodiae. Ant. Atlo-Axoiri - Two: Superficial - Strong rounded cord from Anterior tubercle of atlas to - Base of odontoid proccess <2r* front of body of axis. Deep - Thin & broad membrane from Lower border of anterior arch of atlas to - Base of odontoidprocess front of body ofaxis. Post. Atlo-Axoid - 'f hin & broad membrane from Lower border of posterior arch of atlas to - Upper border ofla7nince of axis. Transverse - strong transverse band, broadest in middle, which divides ring of atlas into a small anterior part, in which anterior part the neck of the odontoid process is firmly constricted, and a much larger posterior part, which transmits the cord & its membranes & the spinal accessory nerves. It is attached on each side to a Tubercle on inner surface of lateral mass of atlas - Its anterior surface is lined with synovial membrane of syndesmo-odontoid articulation, Trom its upper & lower borders, or rather from its posterior surface, are f?iven off" two fasciculi, which pass upwards & downwards to be attached, the one to the basilar groove, the other to posterior surface of body of axis ; with the trans- verse band, these vertical fasciculi term the cricciform ligament. The synovial membrane of the syndesmo-odontoid articulation often communicates with one or both of those of the occipito-atloid arthrodiaa.