229 STRUCTURE of the CEREBRUM ~-2nd Tablet. GREY MATTER. Grey Matter of the Cortical Substance — The cortical substance eousists, not of grey or vesicular matter alone, but of vesicular matter and white fibre?, arranged in alternate strata four in number over the greater part of the cerebrum, six in number in the vicinity of the corpus cal- losum. Thus on a vertical section Ave find from Avithout inwards over the greater part of the cerebrum : - 1. A thin layer of white matter most marked over the under & inner surfaces of the hemispheres, especially over the internal temporo-sphenoidal convolutions. - 2. ^ relatively thick layer of grey matter. - 3. A thin layer ofzvhite jnatler. A thin layer of grey matter, which latter lies iu contact AA'ich the central white substance. In the vicinity of the corpus callo« sum an additional Avliite layer divides the superficial grey layer into two, making six layers altogether. The cells of the grey matter are of variable size, some of the smallest belonging, it is believed, not to the nervous substance, but to the connective tissue. They contain a nucleus, a nucleolus & granular material, give off can- date prolongations, and lie- in a granular matrix. Those of the innermost layer often contain a little pigmentary matter. There are also among them some free nuclei or nucleus-like bodies. The white fibres, though mainly collected into the two or three Nvhite layers above mentioned, also pervade to some extent the whole of the cortical f substance. They run parallel to the surface, intersecting each other in every direction, and being intersected in their turn by the radiating peduncular fibres. They connect, some of them adjoining, others more or less distant gyri, and may therefore be termed Vao gyral fibres ; but their precise mode of origin & termination, as Avell as that of the peduncular fibres, is still unknown. - One set of these gyral fibres, those of the gyrus fornicatus & of its continuation, the gyrus uncinatus, may be placed among the antero-posterior commissural fibres; they form an almost complete circle extending round the corpus callosum from the front to the back of the anterior perforated space (Foville). Grey Matter of the Base & Interior of the Brain - Forms a series of continuous deposits, some superficial,— lamina cinerea, tuber cinereum, grey matter of the anterior & posterior perforated spaces,— some deeply situated,— optic thalami, corpora geniculata, corpora striata, tubercula quadrigemina. The superficial deposits, and also the grey commissure & the i pineal gland, connect the deeper masses from one side of the cerebrum to tha other. - For the arrangement of the grey matter in each of these parts vide respective Tablets.