296 THE SALIVARY GLANDS-1st Tablet. Are the parotid, submaxillary & snblingual, and numerous smaller glands situated beneath' the mucous membrane of the mouth. They are all conglomerate or racemose glands, i| PAROTID GLAND Lies below & in front of external ear, and stretches forwards to a variable extent on outer 11 surface of masseter, often presenting in that situation and just below zygoma, a small detached portion, the soeia parotidis. Is bounded by: Above - Zygoma. Below - Line drawn from angle of jaw to sterno-mastoid. Behind - External auditory meatus, mastoid process, sterno-mastoid, posterior belly of digastric. Presents: Outer Surface - Lobulated. ^Covered by integument, fascia & a few fibres of 0 platysma. Inner Surface - Prolonged deeply in front of and behind styloid process to- wards internal carotid & internal jugular vein, wall of pharynx & deep part of glenoid fossa. Ant. Surface - Grooved externally for posterior border of ramus, and pro- longed forwards, internally, between the two pterygoid muscles. Post. Surface - Kests upon external auditory meatus, mastoid process, sterno- mastoid, posterior belly of digastria Is perforated by several Arteries - External carotid with its posterior auricular^ internal maxillary & temporal branches, and the transverse facial offset of the latter. Veins -Internal maxillary & temporal forming origin of external jugular^ and a branch of communication between the latter & the internal jugular, i Nerves -Facial^ auriculo-temporal & deep facial branches of great auricular, ITS VESSELS & NERVES are — Arteries & Veins, from or to above mentioned (, trunks. - Lymphatics, to two or three lymphatic glands in substance & on !' surface of parotid, and from thence to superficial & deep glands of neck. ! - Nerves, from carotid plexus, auriculo-temporal & great auricular. PABOTID DUCT ( Steno's or Stenson's ) — From anterior border of the gland, ^ and from socia parotidis when it exists. Over masseter a finger's breadth I below zygoma, its direction being marked by a line from lower part of concha to i midway between free margin of the lip & ala of the nose. Through fat of cheek & tuccinator, and obliquely beneath mucom membrane, which it perforates opposite i , . ' and molar tooth of upper jaw»