39 THE HUMERUS Presents npper & lower extremities and a shaft. UPPER EXTREMITY — Presents head, anatomical & surgical necks, greater & lesser tubero- sities, and bicipital groove. Head - Represents nearly one half of a sphere, and is much more extensive than the glenoid cavity, or corresponding articular surface of the scapula. It looks upwards, inwards & backwards, and is bounded by the Anatomical Neck - A slight circular constriction, rather irregular, which gives attach- ment to the capsule of the shoulder-joint. Greater Tuberosity - Large rounded eminence situated on the outer side of the bicipital groove. It presents from before backwards three small facets for supra- & infra- spinati & teres minor. Lesser Tuberosity - Smaller, but more prominent, situated in front of the head, on the inner side of the bicipital groove. It gives attachment to the subscapularis. Bicipital Groove - Corresponds to the upper third of the bone. It is deep & narrow above, where it separates the tuberosities, but it becomes broad & shallow below, where the tendon of the latissimns dorsi is inserted into it. It contains the long tendon of the biceps surrounded by a tubular prolongation of the synovial mem- brane of the shoulder-joint, and is covered with a thin layer of cartilage. Its anterior or outer lip gives attachment to the pectoralis major, its posterior or inner lip, to the teres major. Surgical Neck - Is the slightly constricted part which joins upper extremity to shaft, LOWER EXTREMITY — Is flattened from before backwards & slightly curved forwards. It presents an articular surface, and the inner and outer condyles. Articular Surface - Extends a little lower than the condyles, and occupies a more anterior position. It is divided into: Eadial Portion, Head, or Capitellum - Small rounded eminence limited to the front part of the bone. It is separated from the trochlear portion by a narrow groove for inner border of head of radius, and is surmounted by a slight depression which receives the anterior border of the same head when the fore.arm is completely flexed. Ulnar or Trochlear Portion - Extends also to the back of the bone. The inner border of the trochlea descends lower down than the outer one; the axis round which the ulna rotates is therefore directed downwards & inwards, and the plane of rotation downwards & outwards. - The trochlea is surmounted in front & behind by the coronoid & olecranon fossas, which receive the corres- ponding processes in complete flexion, or complete extension, of the fore-arm. These fossae are lined by the synovial membrane, and are separated by only a thin plate of bone; their margins give attachment to the anterior & posterior ligaments of the elbow-joint. Inner Condyle - The most prominent & the highest. Gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the elbow-joint, & to the pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris & flexor sublimis digitorum muscles. External Condyle - The lowest & least prominent. Gives attachment to the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint & to the extensores carpi radialis brevier, communis digitorum, minimi digiti & carpi ulnaris, and to the anconeus & supinator brevis muscles. SHAFT — Cylindrical above; prismatic and flattened from before backwards, below. Presents three borders & three surfaces. Borders-Are: Anterior - From front of great tuberosity to coronoid depression, forming, above, anterior or outer lip of bicipital groove for attachment of pectoralis major. Internal - From lesser tuberosity to internal condyle, forming, above, inner or pos- terior lip of bicipital groove for attachment of teres major, and, below, inter- nal condyloid ridge for internal intermuscular septum, pronator radii teres, inner head of triceps & brachialis anticus. Towards its middle is found the opening of the nutrient canal directed downwards. External - From back of greater tuberosity to external condyle. Is indistinct and crossed by musculo-spiral groove, above; inferiorly it becomes prominent, and forms the external condyloid ridge for external intermuscular septum, supina- tor longus, extensor carpi radialis longior, outer head oftriceps & brachialis ant. Surfaces-Are internal, external, & posterior; the two former becoming more or less an- terior below, where all three are broader & better defined than above. Internal - Rather narrower than external. Presents towards its middle a rough impression for coraco-brachialis, and frequently towards its lower part, the supra-condyloid process of Struthers. External - Rather broader. Presents towards its middle a rough triangular impression for deltoid, and gives attachment below to brachialis anticus. Posterior - Somewhat twisted. Is crossed obliquely downwards & outwards by musculo-spiral groove, and gives origin, above & below the groove, to the outer & inner heads of the triceps.