113 l USOLES of UPPER LIMB-4th Tablet. MUSCLES of OUTER SIDE of FOREARM. Supinator LongUS - Upper two.thirds of external condyloid ridge of hnmerns, ex- ternal intermuscular septum. Outer side of base of styloid process of radius, - S. by musculo-spiral n. Extensor Carpi Kadialis Longior - Lower third of external condyloid ridge of humerus, external intermuscular septum. Back of base of second metacarpal bone. - S. by musculo-spiral nerve. Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior - External condyle of humerus by a tendon common to it & to superficial muscles of back of forearm; external lateral liga. ment of elbow-joint; deep fascia ; intermuscular septa on either side. Back of base of third metacarpal bone. - S. by posterior interosseous a. MUSCLES of BACK of FOREARM. SUPERFICIAL LAYER. Extensor Communis Digitorum - External condyle of humerus by the commoH tendon; deep fascia; intermuscular septa on either side. Bases of 2nd & 3rd phalanges of the four fingers. - S. by posterior in- terosseous nerve. Extensor Minimi Digiti - External condyle of humerus by the common tencfon; deep fascia; intermuscular septa on either side. Joins corresponding tendon of extensor communis. The common tendon thus formed is inserted into bases of 2nd & 3rd phalanges of little finger. - S. by posterior interosseous nerve. Extensor Carpi Ulnaris -External condyle of humerus by the common tendon; middle third of posterior border of shaft of ulna; deep fascia; septum between it & foregoing muscle. Usually it simply covers, but sometimes it arises from,, narrow portion of posterior surface of shaft of ulna internal to the vea-tical ridge. Base of metacarpal bone of little finger. - S. by posterior interosseous n. Anconeus - Back of outer condyle of humerus; deep fascia. Kough triangular surface on outer side of olecranon & upper third of shaft of ulna. - S. by musculo-spiral nerve. DEEP LAYER. Supinator Brevis - External condyle of humerus; external lateral ligament of elbow-joint; orbicular ligament of radius; triangular depression below lesser sigmoid cavity & ridge behind the depression. Inner, anterior, and outer aspects of radius above bicipital tuberosity & oblique line as low down as insertion of pronator radii teres. - S. by posterior interosseous nerve. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis - Outer half of posterior surface of shaft of ulna below insertion of anconeus; posterior surface of interosseous membrane j middle third of posterior surface of shaft of radius. Base of first metacarpal bone. - S. by posterior interosseous nerve. Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis - Posterior surface of radius below fore, going muscle; interosseous membrane. Base of first phalanx of thumb. - S. by posterior interosseous nerve. Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis - Middle of outer half of posterior sur. face of shaft of ulna; posterior surface of interosseous membrane. Base of terminal phalanx of thumb. - S. by posterior interosseous nerve. Extensor Indicis - Posterior surface of shaft of ulna below foregoing muscle; interosseous membrane. Joins corresponding tendon of extensor communis. The common tendon thus formed is inserted into bases of 2nd & 3rd phalanges of index finger. - S by posterior interosseous nerve, A.