329 STRUCTURE of the LUNGS Presents Serous coaty Stib-serous areolar tissue^ dr* Parmehyma* I . ,. . ! PARENCHYMA of the LUNGS — Presents for examination» - - - ' "' ' BHONCHIAL TUBES — They are circular, and they divide & subdivide diohotomonsly. Sometimes, however, three branches arise together j and single lateral branches are also occasionally met with. Their structure, which is but a modification of that of the trachea & bronchi, remains essentially the same up to the point where, their diameter being reduced to about ^ or | of a line, or to from ^ to -g^ of an inch (Rainey), they penetrate into the lobules (lobular bronchial tubes), and become continuous with the intercellular passages. They present therefore: - Caetilages - Thin laminse of various forms & sizes, irregularly scattered over the whole circumference of the tubes; largest & most distinct in the angles of bifurcation. Fibrous Membrane, The same as in the trachea & bronchi, except that the mus- MuscuLAR Fibres, / cular & elastic longitudinal fibres and the glands spread out uni- Elastic Fibres, \ formly round the whole circumference. The muscular fibres Mucous Membrane, i however, are mainly circular j and these circular fibres form Glands, j an almost continuous layer. The bronchial tubes are generally found to lie between & behind the corres- ponding branches of the pulmonary artery & vein. LOBULES — Are miniature lungs, pyramidal with base outwards, large a line to a line) on the surface, smaller & polygonal, in the interior of the lung. They present: - LOBULAR BRONCHIAL TUBE - The terminal ramification of the bronchial tube, to which the lobule is suspended. Is similar in structure to the larger bronchial tubes. Its diameter is reduced to about ^ or ^ of a line or to from to -^l of an inch (Rainey). INTERCELLULAR PASSAGES-The ramifications from four to nine in number, of the lobular bronchial tube within the Jobule. Their walls are covered with lateral saccular dilatations. Their structure is much more simple than that of tlie trachea, bronchi, & bronchial tubes: - The Cartilages, Muscular Fibres & Glands of the latter have disappeared, and there re- mains of the primitive structural elements of the air-passages at this point of their course but a FiBKQ.Elastic Membrane formed of longitudinal bundles of white & yellow elastic fibrous tissues, and a Mucous Membrane, - the epithelium of which is no longer columnar & ciliated, but is simply squamous, as in the air-cells. AIR-CELLS - Small alveolar recesses separated from each other by thin septa, and com- municating freely with the intercellular passages. - Their diameter varies from *° 200 inch, and is greatest at the apex & borders, and on the surface of the lung. - In structure they are reduced to the greatest degree of simplicity; their walls are formed of a basement membrane, supported by a few elastic fibres, lined internally with pavement epithelium, and in the substance of which the pulmonary vessels j amily. PULMONARY VESSELS. PULMONARY ARTERY - Forms a very dense capillary plexus on the walls of the inter- cellular passages & air-cells j the interspaces between the capillaries of which plexus are smaller than the capillaries themselves. PULMONARY VEINS - Arise from the above plexus, and also from some of the terminal ramifications of the bronchial arteries. - The pulmonary vessels are generally found to lie in front of the corresponding bronchial tubes, the artery being above the vein. - The vessels of the different lobules are distinct from each other. BRONCHIAL VESSELS. BRONCHIAL ARTERIES - Supply mainly the larger bronchial tubes, the interlobular cellular tissue & the walls of the pulmonary vessels. Some of the terminal rami- fications reach the smaller bronchial tubes, and join with the pulmonary veins. BRONCHIAL VEINS - Open into the vena azygos major on the right side, into the supei'ior intercostal on the leit. LYMPHATICS — Superficial & deepj end in the bronchial glands. NERVES — From the anterior & posterior pulmonary plexuses of the pneumogastric & sym. pathetic. Small ganglia are found upon the sympathetic nerves. INTERLOBULAR CELLULAR TISSUE — Binds all these parts together pretty firmly in the adultj more loosely in the foetus, for the lobules of the foetal lung can easily be separated by dissection. - In the adult & the aged it contains a large amount of the peculiar dark colouring matter of the lung, which probably consists of a mixture of animal matter & carbon not included in cells.