181 VEINS of HEAD & NECK-2nd Tablet. THEIR TRIBUTARY BRANCHES. TRIBUTARY BRANCHES OP THE EXTERNAL JUGULAR: Temporal - Commences on side of vertex by anterior & posterior branches, which join respectively with frontal, & with posterior auricular & occipital, and then unite just above zygoma. The trunk receives the viiddle temporal transverse- facial, accompanies its artery through parotid gland, and joins with internal maxillary. Internal Maxillary - Eeceives branches corresponding to those of artery, and joins with temporal to form principal origin of external jugular, the temporo- maxillary trunk giving off in substance of parotid a large branch of communi- ; cation to facial. - The veins corresponding to the branches of the internal ! maxillary artery form the pterygoid plexus, which occupies the space between 'i the temporal & pterygoid muscles, and which communicates with the cavera- : ous sinus & the facial vein. Posterior Auricular - Commences above and behind ear, communicating with occipital & posterior branch of temporal, receives stylo-mastoid, and opens into ! temporo-maxillary trunk just above origin of external jugular. ' Occipital - Vide below. Posterior External Jugular - Lies between trapezius & splcnius, and returns , the blood from integument & superficial muscles of upper & back part of neck. ; Opens into external jugular just below middle of its course. TRIBUTARY BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL JUGULAR: Occipital - Commences at back of vertex, accompanies its artery, receives mas- toid vaiu, find opens into upper part of internal jugular, or sometimes into the external jugular. - Tiie mastoid vein establishes a communication between it & the lateral sinus. Facial - The continuation of angular vein opposite inner canthus. Downwards & outwards behind facial artery, taking a similar but less tortuous course beneath zygomatic! and over levatores labii superioris & anguli oris & buccinator; crosses lower jaw in front of masseter; and, descending over stylo-hyoid & posterior belly of digastric & beneath platysma, opens into the internal jugular. 'SiQce.iYQB Siiprao'bital & fj ontal (forming together the angular), palpebral, iiijra- orbital, superior <Sr= inferior labial, buccal, masseteric, submental, injerior palatine, sub- maxillary, &= ranine, and a large branch of communication from temporo- maxillary trunk; communicates freely with ophthalmic vein & pterygoid plexus. Lingual - Commences on dorsum, side, & under surface of tongue, follows artery and opens into internal jugular. Pharyngeal - Commences in a minute plexus at back & side of pharynx, receives iiiemugeal, vidian, & spheno-palatine veins, and opens, usually into the internal jugular, sometimes into the facial, lingual, or inlerior thyroid. Superior Thyroid - Commences in substance & on surlace of tliyroid gland, accompanies its artery, receiving the superior laryngeal, and opens into the internal jugular below the lingual. Middle Thyroid - Commences in lower part of lateral lobe of thyroid gland, receives a lew small branches from larynx & trachea, crosses common carotid beneath sterno-mastoid, and opens into lower part of internal jugular. - Before opening into the internal jugular, the facial, lingual & superior thyroid veins otten join into a plexus in front of upper part of common carotid. The vertebral vein has already been described.