94 KNEE-JOINT—4th Tablet. I SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. Is the largest synovial membrane in the body. Its particularities are as follows: - 1. That it forms a large cul-de-sac beneath the extensor muscles of the • gi which cul-de-sac extends upwards for an inch or two above the articular surface! an is supported during the movements of the joint by the subcrurseus muscle, wh i i inserted into it. - This cul-de-sac is sometimes replaced by a bursa, which may >m municate with the synovial membrane of the knee-joint by an opening of variabl iz( 2. That on each side of the patella it extends a considerable distance be atl the aponeuroses of the vasti, covering the tuberosities of the femur, especial th inner one. 3. That below the patella it rests upon a large quantity of adipose tissue, icl adipose tissue, projecting into the joint in the shape of three processes sheathe( ritl synovial membrane, forms the ligamenhun mticosum and the ligavienta alaria. Fh. former is attached to the front of the intercondyloid notch; the two latter pas: bli quely from the ligamentum mucosum, and fit into the space between the tibia, p: 11a and femur. - The ligamentum mucosum supports the synovial membrane & t fa below the patella when the patella tends to descend in front of the knee-joint, .'hi happens when, in the standing position, the body rests against some external c BC< for both flexor & extensor muscles then relax, their action being unnecessary to iin tain the equilibrium. 4. That it invests the semilunar fibro-cartilages except at their convex ( .at tached margin, and surrounds the crucial ligaments laterally & in front. 5. That it extends, under cover of the capsule, beneath the heads of the ga foc nemius, and is prolonged through an opening in the capsule, beneath the ten % o the popliteus. 6. That it is sometimes continued into the superior tibio-fibular articulatioi | VASCULAR & NERVE SUPPLY — From the five articular branches of th. *p liteal artery, the anastomotica magna, & the recurrent branch of the tibial, and ron the anterior crural, obturator, & internal & external popliteal nerves.