118 SUPEBFICIAL MUSCLES of the BACK. FIRST LAYER. i Trapezius - External occipital protuberatice & inner third of snperior cnrved line of ^ occipital bone; ligamentum nuchse & spinous processes of the last cervical & of aU the dorsal vertebrae; supraspinous ligament. i Posterior border of outer third of clavicle, inner border of acromion; whole length of upper lip of posterior border of spine of scapula, and; tubercle at outer part of smooth surface at its inner extremity. - S. by spinal accessory nerve & deep branches of cervical plexus. | Latissimus Dorsi - Spinous processes of the 6 or 7 lower dorsal vertebrae; by thj posterior layer of lumbar aponeurosis, from the lumbar & sacral spines and the back part of outer lip of crest of ilium ; from outer lip of crest of ilium fof an inch or more in front of lumbar aponeurosis; from the last three or four rib( interdigitating with external oblique; sometimes by a few fibres from inferioi angle of scapula. ^ Bottom of bicipital groove of humerus a little higher up than teres major by a broad flat tendon twisted upon itself. - S. by long subscapular nerve. SECOND LAYER. Levator Anguli Scapulse - Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of the 3, 4, or f upper cervical vertebras between splenius & scalenus medius. Posterior border of scapula between spine & superior angle. -S. by oneo'! the deep branches of the cervical plexus and by one of the supra-claviculai branches of the brachial plexus. RhombOideus Minor - Liga,mentum nuchas and spinous processes of 7th cervical & Isl dorsal vertebrae. Posterior border of scapula opposite triangular smooth surface at root o spine. - S. by one of the deep branches of cervical plexus and by one of the snpra; clavicular branches of the brachial plexus. Rlunoboideus Major - Spinous processes of the 4 or 5 upper dorsal vertebrae and suprajj spinous ligament. ' Base of scapula between spine and inferior angle (Quain, Ellis), or rathe into a tendinous arch attached to the triangular smooth surface at root c spine & to the inferior angle and connected to posterior border of scapula b; a thin membrane (Gray). - S. by one of the deep branches of the ceryioft plexus and by one of the supra-clavicular branches of the brachial plexus. THIRD LAYER Splenius - Lower half of ligamentum nuchse and spinous processes of 7th cervical & fluj upper dorsal vertebrae. i Splenius Capitis - Mastoid process and outer part of rough surface between Bupl! erior & inferior curved lines of occipital bone. ' Splenius Colli - Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of the 2,3, or 4uppercer' vical vertebras. - S. by external branches of posterior divisions of cervical nerveJ Serratus Posticus Superior - Ligamentum nuchae and spinous processes of 7th oer vical & two or thi ee upper dorsal vertebrse, and interspinous ligament. Upper border of 2nd, 3rd, 4th & 5th ribs a little beyond their angle.-£ by external branches of posterior divisions of lower cervical nerves. Serratus Posticus Inferior - Spinous processes of the two last dorsal & 2 or 3 uppei lumbar vertebrae. Lower border of 4 lower ribs a little beyond their angle. - S. by externa branchies of posterior divisions of lower dorsal nerves.