0 11 THE PELVIS. Bonj ring formed by the innominate bones, sacrum & coccyx, and divided into: - FALSE PELVIS — The superior expanded portion corresponding to the iliac fossse. Its walls are deficient in front between the anterior borders of the ilia and the bodies & horizontal rami of the pubes, and deficient also behind between the posterior superior iliac spines & the sacrum. TRUE PELVIS — The inferior contracted portion; presents for examination: - Superior Circumference, Brim or Inlet - Heart-shaped; bounded by crest & spine of pubes, ilio-pectineal line, anterior border of base of sacrum & sacro- vertebral angle. Looks upwards & forwards in the direction of a line drawn from middle of coccyx to umbilicus, and forms in the erect posture an angle of from 60*^ to 65° with the horizontal, the base of the sacrum lying about 3| iachea above upper border of the symphysis (Nagele). Its diameters are as follows:- Sacro-Pubic (ant.-post.) male, 4 inches; female 4^ inches; Ilio-Iliac (transverse) „ 4i „ „ h\ „ Sacro-Iliac (oblique) „ 4^ „ „ 5 „ (Thomson & Cleland). Cavity - Short curved canal broadest towards middle, shallow in front (1-^ to 2 inches along back of symphysis pubis), deep behind (4J to 5 inches along concavity of sacrum & eoccyx). Each of its three diameters measures 4^ inches in the male, 5 or 5| in the female (Thomson & Cleland). Lower Circumference or Outlet - Bounded by pubic arch, coccyx, & tuberosities of ischia. Apparently very irregular, but less so in reality, especially when con- sidered in connexion vrith parturition, for the sacro-sciatic notches are bridged over in the recent state by the sacro-sciatic ligaments, and the coccyx is very movable during pregnancy and is easily pressed backwards by the head of the foetus. Looks downwards & forwards in the direction of a line, which, pro- longed upwards, would just touch the base of the sacrum; the top of the coccyx lying, on a average, in the erect posture, from 7 to 8 lines above apex of pubic arch (Xiigele). Its diameters are as follows: - Coccy-Piibic (ant.-post.) male, 3:^ inches; female 5 inches. Bi-Ischiatic (transverse) „ '6\ „ „ 4| „ (Thomson & Cleland). THE FEMALE PELVIS - As compared with the male pelvis, is lighter & more slender, and the muscular impressions on its surface are less marked. It is broader from side to side. The ilia are more expanded, and the iliac spines more widely separated. The inlet of the true pelvis is larger, and also more circular on account of the sacro- vertebral angle being less prominent. The cavity of the true pelvis is more capacious, though shallower, and the spines of the iscbia project less into it. The outlet is more expanded & more dilatable, the pubic arch being wider, its edges more everted, the tuberosities of the ischia farther apart, and the coccvx more movable