213 STRUCTURE of the MEDULLA OBLONGATA-2ncl T. IGRQY MATTER — May be examiiied in three principal situations as follows: Inferiorly, or at Junction of Medulla with Cord - It is here disposed as ia the cord, except tliatthe transverse commissure is broader, and that, with tne central canal (which latter is usually blocked up with a little granular matter) it progressively approaches the posterior aspect of the medulla. Towards Middle of Medulla - The following changes take place : - I. Antekiok CoimuA & Lateral Intermediate Tracts become indistinc': and soon vanish away in the form of a radiating network of fibres & cells. In front of this network, i.e., between it & the anterior pyramid, there soon appears on either side, the olivary nucleus or corpus dentatum, which latter is uncon- nected with the grey matter prolonged upwards from the cord. - The corpus dentatum is a hollow bag or capsule of grey matter open at its upper & inner part, and presenting on section a dentated outline. Some of the deep trans- verse fibres of the medulla pass into this capsule; other fibres emerge from it, and joining the middle bundle of fibres of the anterior column of the cord, form the olivary fasciculus or fillet, which passes up through the mesocephalon both to the corpora quadrigemina & the cerebral hemispheres. II. PosTEUiOR CoRNUA become more & more transverse in direction and finally curve slightly forwards. The substantia gelatinosa, which caps their extremity, expands into a large rounded mass, which reaches the surface below & in front of the restiform body and forms the grey tubercle of Rolando; higher np, this mass becomes the chief nucleus for the sensory portion of the 5th nerve. Behind the posterior cornua two new cornua appear, which extend, the one into the fasciculus cuneatus, the other into the posterior pyramid; both these new cornua increase in size from below upwards. Superiorly, where Medulla passes into Mesocephalon - The central canal expands into 4th ventricle, and the grey matter spreads out on floor of that cavity. Here it forms in the upper half of the space the nuclei for the Gch & 7th nerves, and in the lower half & close to the postero-median fissure, the nucleus for the hypoglossal nerve, & externally to this nucleus & from above downwards, the nuclei for the following nerves, i.e y auditory, glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric & accessory portion of spinal accessory; the nuclei of the hypo- glossal & accessory portion of the spinal accessory being also prolonged for some distance into the concealed portion of the grey matter, the former ni;cle::.^ in front of the central canal, the latter behind it (Stilling, Clarke). Note - From recent statements by Mr. Lockbart Clarke there appear to Iexist tJu-ce oihcr midd on the floor of the fourth ventricle in addition to those above described, namely, iwo miclei for ih^ h(h Nerve., one sensory & one motor, and an additionalmiclcns Jor /he Auditory yV^ rve. The two nnclei for the bth Nerve are situated at the outer an-ie of the floor of the fourth ventricle; the more external or sensory nucleus is continuous below with the grey tubercle of llolando; the more internal or w^-Z^^r nucleus lies just internally to foregoing. In addition to the Auditory Nucleus above described, which nu- cleus is now termed the internal auditory nucleus, there exists another nucleus higher up & more to the outer side, between the two nuclei for the 5th nerve, above, and the nucleus for the glosso-pharyngeal Inerve below; this is the external auditory nucleus. - In correspond- ence with the above statements, the auditory nerve would have another, deeper, or more anterior set of fibres. These fibres arise from the external auditory nucleus; thoy pass outwards thiou h the substance of the restiform body, and join, externally to that body, with the bundle & fibres hitherto recognised. Some of the fibres of the Ath Nerve are said to arise from a I nucleus on outer side of locus coeruleus.