10 THE SPINE in GENERAL. The spine consists of 33 vertebras, i.e., 7 cervical, 12 dorsal,,5 lumbar, 5 sacral, 4 coccygeal. Its average length, measured along its anterior aspect, is about 28 inches. It presents tbe four following curves: Cervical - Convex anteriorly ; from odontoid process to 2nd dorsal. Dorsal - Concave anteriorly; from 2nd to 12th dorsal. Lumbar - Convex anteriorly; from 12th dorsal to sacro-vertebral angle. Pelvic - Concave anteriorly; from sacro-vertebral angle to tip of coccyx. In the dorsal region it usually presents also a slight lateral curve convex to the right, pro- bably due to muscular action. Its anterior, lateral, & posterior aspects, and the vertebral canal, present the following points of interest: - ANTERIOR ASPECT — The pillar formed by the superposition of the bodies of the verte- brae may be divided with respect to the width of the bodies into the four following pyramids: Cervical Pyramid - Broadest below; from odontoid process of axis to Ist dorsal Superior Dorsal Pyramid - Broadest above; from 1st to 4th dorsal. DoRSO-LuMBAR Pyramid - Broadest below; from 4th dorsal to last lumbar. Sacro-Coccygeal Pyramid - Broadest above; from base of sacrum to tip of coccyx LATERAL ASPECT — The antero-posterior diameter of the bodies increases steadily from above downwards as far as the last lumbar vertebra; it then diminishes rapidly. - The demi-facets for the ribs are seen in the dorsal region. The pedicles are concealed in the neck by the transverse processes. The intervertebral foramina increase in size from above downwards, and lie, in the cervical region, between the tratisverse processes^ in the dorsal & lumbar regions, in front of the transverse processes. The transverse processes lie, in the cervical region, on the outer side of the pedicles in front of the articular processes ; in the dorsal region, behind the pedicles ^ behind the articular processes ; in the lumbar region, behind the pedicles but in front of the transverse processes. - In the dorsal region, the transverse processes, on account of their being inclined backwards, describe a greater curve than do the bodies. The spinous processes, on the contrary, describe a lesser curve on account of their inclination downwards. POSTERIOR ASPECT — The spines, though they normally occupy the median line, are sometimes deviated slightly to one side or to the other independently of disease. The vertebi-al groove is broad ^ shallow in the cervical region, na^-row dr= deep in the dorsal region, narrow but rather shallozu in the lumbar region. The distance between the laminae is greatest in the lumbar region, least in the middle part of the dorsal. The width between the extremities of the transverse processes is gi-eat in the atlas, but much smaller in the axis; this width increases from above downwards in the cervical region, diminishes in the dorsal region, again increases in the lumbar; it suddenly becomes very great opposite the base of the sacrum, and then diminishes rapidly throughout the sacro-coccygeal region, VERTEBRAL CANAL — Follows the curves of the spine. It is broad & triangular in the cervical region, small & circular in the dorsal, triangular & intermediate in size in the lumbar. In the sacral region it is pretty large & triangular above, smaller & flattened from before backwards towards middle, deficient in its posterior wall below.