379 SCARPA'S TRIANGLE-2nd Tablet. FEMORAL SHEATH — Ib a thin tube of fascia divided by two delicate septa into three compartments, of whicli compartments the outermost contains the femoral artery & the crural ])rancli of the genito-crural nerve, the middle one the femoral vein, and the innermost, winch is called the femoral canal, some fat & a lymphatic gland. It is e.xpanded superiorly, where it is continuous beneath Poupart's ligament with the fasciaj of the abdomen, the fascia transversalis & the fascia iliaca passing down to form it, the former in front of, and the latter behind, the femoral vessels. It is narrow inferiorly, and blencs about two inches below Poupart's ligament with the common areolar sheath of the femoral vessels. Anteriorly it is covered by the iliac portion of the fascia lata (falciform process & femoral ligament), Poupart's ligament, the deep crural arch, and, opposite the saphenous opening, by the cribriform fascia. Posteriorly it rests upon the pubic portion of the fascia lata & the pectineus muscle. Its outer wall is vertical, lies in immediate contact with the artery, and is perforated by the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve. Its inner wall is oblique downwards & outwards from base of Gimbernat's ligament to inner surface of femoral vein. It is pierced superiorly, where it corresponds to the femoral canal, by numerous lymphatic vessels, and, inferiorly, or below the femoral canal, by the internal saphenous vein. FEMORAL CANAL — Is the innermost compartment of the femoral sheath. Or rather it is the nar- row interval comprised, at the upper part of the femoral sheath, between the inner wall of the sheath & the femoral vein; for it can hardly be said to exist as a distinct canal unless the wall of the sheath has been separated from the vein either by dissection or by the pressure of a hernia. - It contains a little fat & a lymphatic gland. It extends from the femoral ring to the upper part of saphenous opening, and measures from i to an inch in length. It presents four walls & two openings. Anterior Wall - Formed by the fascia transversalis, and supported by Poupart's liga- ment, deep crural arch, & iliac portion of fascia lata (falciform process & femoral ligament); Posterior Wall - Formed by the fascia iliaca; rests upon pubic portion of fascia lata & pectineus muscle; Inner Wall - Formed by junction of fasciie transversalis & iliaca; Outer Wall - Formed by the thin septum on inner side of femoral vein; Superior Opening, or Femoral Ring - Vide below. Inferior, or Saphenous Opening - Vide foregoing Tablet. Femoral Ring - Is the opening of the femoral canal into the abdomen. - Its boundaries are:- In Front - Poupart's ligament and the deep crural arch; Behind - Pubes covered by pectineus muscle, & pubic portion of fascia lata; Internally - Gimbernat's ligament with the triangular ligament, the conjoined tendon, & the deep crural arch. Externally - Femoral vein & the thin septum between it & crural canal. Its relations are as follows: Femoral vein, on outer side; Epig:astric artety, crossing upper & outer angle; Spermatic cord or ixnc7id ligament, ^y' pubic branch of epi^^astric above & in front; Obturator artery, on inner side, in those rare cases in wihich the artery presents the double abnormality of arising from the epigastric artery, and of arising from that artery at some distance from its root;-the obturator artery then passes first inwards above the ring, and then downwards into the pelvis behind Gimbernat's ligament. It Is nearly circular, about \ an inch wide in the male, a little wider in the female, and is closed by the SEPTUM CRUPv-ALE (J. Cloquet) - A more or less condensed layer of superitoneal areolar tissue adherent to margins of femoral ring, and perforated by numerous apertures for lymphatics. Its upper surface is concave, and separated from the peritoneum by a less condensed layer of the same tissue and sometimes by a lymphatic gland; its under surface is convex & turned towards the femoral canal. The femoral canal & both its openings are constricted by extension & eversion, and relaxed by flexion & inversion of the thigh. COVERINGS OF FEMORAL HERNIA - Are: - From Within Outwards : - Peritoneum, subperitoneal areolar tissue (a portion of which, thickened & caused to assume a membranous appearance by the pressure of thff hernia, Avas described by Sir A. Cooper under the name of fascia propria), septum crurale, crural sheath, crib> iform fascia, superficialfascia, skin. From Within Outwards : - Sidn, superficial fascia, criiriform fascia, crural sheath, septum crurale^ subperitoneal areolar tissue, peritoneum. The deep seated stricture is to be divided upwards & inwards, in which direction no important vessel Is likely to be met with.