200 LYMPHATICS of the ABDOMEN. PARIETAL LYMPHATICS — Those of the hypojrastric, lumbar, & epigastric region i accompany respectively: - 1. the epigastric <5r» circumflex i/iac vessels, and open, the super ficial ones into the superior or abdominal group of inguinal lymphatic glands, the dee i ones into external iliac glands; - 2. the siiperior epigastric vessels, and join with th lymphatics of the thorax; - 3. the lumbar &=> ilio-htmbar vessels, and open into the lum bar glandi VISCERAL LYMPHATICS — Those of the Intestine - Are superficial & deep, the former running longitudinally beneath the peri toneum, the latter circularly in the submucous tissue. The lymphatics of th small intestine or lacteals open into the mesenteric glands, which glands vary i number from a hundred to a hundred & fifty, and iu size from that of a pea t that of a small almond, and are largest & most numerous near the duodenur & near the ilio-ccBcal valve. The lymphatics of the large intestine are les numerous; they pass through the glands found in the meso-colon along th arches formed by the colic arteries, and they then open, those of the ccecun ascending & transverse colon, into the mesenteric glands, those of the descenc ing colon & sigmoid fl 'xiire, into the lumbar glandi StomSbCll - Are superficial & deep, the former arising beneath the peritoneum, the lattf in the submucous coat. They accompany the gastric & gastro-epiploic vessels ■ the vasa brevia, and open into the pyloric & splenic glaads, and some of thet into one of the lacteals previous to its termination in the thoracic due Liver - Are superficial & deep. SuPEKPiciAL Lymphatics - Those of the Upper Surface - Form four groups as follows: - 1. Some wind rouii anterior border of liver, and join lymphatics of under surface. 2. Sora ascend in suspensory ligament, perforate diaphragm, and open into at terior mediastinal glands. - 3. Some pass to the left, perforate diaphragn and open into anterior mediastinal glands. - 4. Some pass to the righ and either perforate diaphragm to enter anterior mediastinal gland- or cross right crus of diaphragm and open directly into thoracic due Under Surface - Form three groups as follows : - 1. Those surrouncY ing the gall-bladder accompany the hepatic vessels, and open into tb; glands along lesser curvature of stomach. - 2. Those on the rigl side of the gall-bladder enter the lumbar glands. - 3. Those on the le side of the gall-bladder open into the glands along lesser curvature i stomach & into the oesophageal gland ■ Deep Lymphatics - Accompany the hepatic artery, bile duct, & portal vein in th portal canals, and, emerging at the transverse fissure, either join one (i the lacteal vessels previous to its termination in the thoracic duct or ope, into the glands along the lesser curvature of stomach k behind tt pancrea Spleen - Are superficial & deep. They pass through some small glands at the hilur; receive the lymphatics of the pancreas, and open into the thoracic due Kidney - Are superficial & deep. Receive the lymphatics from the suprarenal capsule ureter, and open into the lumbar gland