142 THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. From innomiaafce artery behind upper border of sterno-clavicular arfciculatioa (right side) from end of transverse portion of arch of Aorta (left side), to outer border of first riu Divided into three parts: FIRST PART — From origin to inner border of scalenus anticus. Differs on the two sides. RIGHT SIDE —Arches upwards & outwards across root of neck, and is shorter & morl superficial than on left side. - Relations j In Front - Sterno-clavicular articulation, sterno.mastoid,.hyoid, & -thyroid,dee layer of fascia; - and the artery is crossed by i Internal & anterior jugular and vertebral veins, pneumogastric i, phrenic nerves, and cardiac branches of sympatheti( Behind - Longus colli, transverse process of 7th cervical vertebra, cord of sytr pathetic, recurrent laryngeal nervf Below - Pleura. Subclavian Vein lies below & in front of artery immediately behind claviol LEFT SIDE —Ascends nearly vertically, and is longer & more deeply situated. - Relation; In Front — Same, plus left lung & pleura, left innominate v., left com. carotid; - ac Pneumogastric & phrenic nerves & cardiac branches of sympath' tic are nearly parallel to the arter; Behind - Same, plus oesophagus & thoracic duct. On Inner S.-TYabch.ea,f aesophagus, thoracic duct, left common carotid artery. On OuterS.-F\e\ira,. BRANCHES — Vertebral, Internal Mammary, Thyroid Axis - Ari close together near inner border of scalenus anticus, ! interval measuring usually from ^ an inch to 1 inch being 1( ' between the origin of tlie artery & its first branch. Oa t left side the Superior Intercostal also usually aris from this part of the arte) SECOND PART — Lies behind scalenus anticus at a somewhat variable level above cla icle. Short; forms higest pard of arch described by the artery. - Relation In Front - Scalenus anticus, subclavian vein, phrenic nerve. Behind - Scalenus medius. Adove - Brachial plexus. ii Below - Pleura. ' If Subclavian Vein lies below & in front of artery, from which it is separated scalenus antio' BRANCHES — Superior Intercostal on right side; generally no branch ^ left si( THIRD PART — From outer border of scalenus anticus to outer border of first rib. Cross lower & inner part of posterior triangle of neck, lying in the small spa bounded by omo-hyoid, clavicle & scalenus ant. - Relation In front - Skin, superficial fascia, platysma, descending branches of superfioi cervical plexus, deep fascia, transversalis colli vei Clavicle, subclavius & its nerve, transversalis humeri vessels, exte nal jugular vein with the plexus frequently formed by t saprasoapular & transversalis ool Behind - Scalenus medius. Above - Brachial plexus, omo-hyoid. Below - Outer surface of first rib. Subclavian vein lies below, in front, & to inner side of arterj^ > BRANCH — Frequently the Posterior Scapular, which is otherwise deriv from the transversalis O0 |i|