99 ^ASCI^ & SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES of the TARSUS. FASCIiE — Are rather ligaments than fasciaB proper, and are therefore described here. Anterior'Annular Ligament - Consists of two portions connected by a thin inter- venirig layer of fascia. Superior or Vertical Portion - Of considerable breadth & contianous super- iorly with deep fascia of leg. It extends from lower part of anterior border of tibia to lower part of anterior border of fibula. Inferior or Horizontal Portion. - Narrower and continuous anteriorly with deep fascia over dorsum of foot. It extends from upper surface of os calcis, in front of groove for interosseous calcaneo-astra^aloid ligament, to internal malleolus & inner border of plantar fascia. Beneath anterior annular ligament pass from within outwards: - J. - Tendon of tibialis anticus contained throughout in a synovial sheath. 2. - Tendon of extensor proprius pollicis contained in a synovial sheath beneath the inferior or horizontal portion of the ligament only. ^. - Anterior tibial vessels dr= nerve. 4. - Tendons of extensor longus digitonun peroneiis tertius enclosed throughout in one synovial sheath. Internal Annular Ligament - strong fibrous band continuous superiorly with deep fascia of leg, and giving origin inferiorly to innermost fibres of abductor pollicis. It extends obliquely from internal malleolus to inner surface of os calcis. Beneath it pass from before backwards & outwards: - X. - Tendon of the tibialis posticus contained in a synovial sheath. 2. - Tendon of the flexor longus digitortim contained in another synovial sheath. 2' - Posterior tibial vessels <2j^ nerve. 4. - Tendon of the flexor longus pollicis also contained in a synovial sheath, and situated at a considerabl3 depth in a groove on posterior surface of astragalus. External Annular Ligament-Narrower & thinner band extending from exter- nal malleolus to outer surface of os calcis, and beneath which pass Tendons of peronei both enclosed in one synovial sheath. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES — Are articular & tendinous. Articular - Six: - /. - Synovial membrane of posterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation. 2.-Synovial membrane co7nmon to the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid <Sr» astragalo-scaphoid articulations. ^. - Synovial membrane of calcaneo-cuboid articulation. 4. - General synovial me?nbrane of the tarsus comprised between the scaphoid & the three cuneiform bones, between the three cunei- form bones, between the external cuneiform bone & the cuboid, between the middle & external cuneiform bones on the one hand and the bases of the 2nd & 3rd metatarsal bones on the other, between the bases of the 2nd & 3rd metatarsal bones. - Sometimes there is a separate synovial membrane between the scaphoid & the cuboid. jr. - Synovial membrane of the articulation between the ctcboid and the 4th ^ ^th metatarsal bones. 6. - Synovial membrane of the articulation between the first cuneiform bone the first metatarsal. Tendinous - Vide Annular Ligarueats.