38 ME CLAVICLE Is nsually reckoned as a long bone, thongh, structurally, it rather resembles a sbort bone. It is curved like an italic /and is convex anteriorly & rounded in its inner two-tbirds, concave anterioi^ly and flattened from above downwards, in its outer third. INNER or CYLINDRICAL PORTION — Presents three borders and three surfaces. Borders-Are: Anteriok - Continuous with anterior border of flattened portion, and gives attachment to pectoralis major. Posterior - Extends from rhomboid impression to conoid tubercle, and forms posterior boundary of subclavian groove. Superior - Continuous with posterior border of flattened portion, and gives attachment to sterno-mastoid. Surfaces - Are: Anterior - Convex & continuous with upper surface of flattened portion. la covered externally by platysma, and gives attachment internally to sterno-mastoid & pectoralis major. Posterior - Concave, narrow externally, where it becomes continuous with pos- terior border of flattened portion. Frequently gives origin internally to some of the fibres of the sterno-cleido-hyoid, and presents towards its middle the nutrient canal, which is directed outwards. Inferior - Narrow internally; broader externally, where it becomes continuous with under surface of flattened portion. Presents from within outwards: Articular facet, which articulates with cartilage of first rib, and which is continuous with sternal articular surface; Rhomhoid imp7'ession for rhomboid or costo-clavicular ligament; Subclavian groove for subclavius muscle. OUTER or FLATTENED PORTION — Presents: Borders: Anterior - Thin, concave, for deltoid. Posterior - Thicker, convex, for trapezius. Surfaces: Superior - Eough, for deltoid & trapezius. Inferior - Presents internally Conoid tubercle for conoid ligament, from which tubercle passes forwardf & outwards th( Oblique line for trapezoid ligament. INNER or STERNAL END — Enlarged & triangular. Its articular facet is continuou with the costal facet at inner extremity of inferior surface. It is concav from before backwards and convex from above downwards & outwards; i gives attachment at its upper & back part to the interarticular fibro-cartilag of the sterno-clavicular articulation. - The circumference of the end of th bone is rough for the anterior & posterior sterno-clavicular & the interclavi cular ligamentf OUTER or ACROMIAL END — Flattened from above downwards. Presents a sma oval facet, which looks downwards & outwards and articulates with acromioi - The circumference of the end of the bone is rough for the superior > inferior acromio-clavicular ligamenti i I