316 i THE PANCREAS Lies behind stomach & lesser bag of peritonenm opposite first lumbar vertebra. It is long, , narrow, flattened from before backwards, & of a reddish cream-colour, and presents: Head; or Right Enlarged Extremity - Curves downwards, and is embraced by con- cavity of duodenum, the ductus communis choledochus & the pancreaticc i duodenal arteries lyin^ between the two organs, the former behind, the latter i in front. - The lower & back part of the head (sometimes detached from the ' remainder of the gland, and then called the lesser pancreas J, passes to the left t behind superior mesenteric vessels, forming the posterior wall of an incomplete canal in which these vessels are enclosed. Body, or Central Flattened Portion - Presents: Anterior Surface - Convex, covered by peritoneum belonging to lesser bag, & by i posterior surface of stomach, i Posterior Surface - Concave; in relation with: i Pillars of diaphragm, left quadratus lumborumj left kidney <Sr» left suprarenal \ capsule; • Aorta, vena cava, mesenteric vessels, commencement of vena porta, left renal I vessels. ' ! "Upper Border - Thick, corresponds to coeliac axis, and is deeply grooved for splenic artery & vein, i Lower Border - Thinner, separated from transverse portion of duodenum by superior i mesenteric vessels. | Lesser End, or Tail - I^ies a little higher than the head, in contact with left kidney & left suprarenal capsule, & lower & back part of spleen, to which latter organ it is slightly adherent. | PANCREATIC DUCT, or CANAL OF WIRSUNG — Runs from left to right through whole length of the gland, lying in the vicinity of its anterior surface it & lower border. In the head it curves downwards on left side of ductus com- l! munis choledochus. Both ducts then perforate together the muscular coat i of the intestine, run side by side for about three-quarters of an inch beneath i mucous membrane, and open by a common orifice situated on inner wall of descending portion of duodenum a little below its middle, about three or four ij inches from pylorus. The duct from the lesser pancreas opens into canal of li Wirsung near its termination, or, sometimes, forms a supplementary canal || which opens separately into duodenum an inch or more above canal of 1; Wirsung. ^ STRUCTURE — The pancreas is a racemose or conglomerate gland and is very similar to !i the salivary glands, excepting that its tissue is somewhat softer & looser. Vessels & Nerves - Arteries from the splenic and superior & inferior pancreatico^ duodenal. - Veins open into the splenic & mesenteric. - Lymphatics QHQn into the lumbar glands, - Nerves are from solar plexus. ■