276 SPLANCHNIC NERVES & SOLAR PLEXUS. gpL^^jjQjjjq-IQ NERVES — Usually three in number, and termed great^ lesser^ & least. Arise as follows from the six or seven lower dorsal ganglia : Great Splanchnic Nerve - Ganglia from 5th or 6th to 9th or 10th: - Is also con. nected with the dorsal ganglia above as high as the 3rd, or sometimes even as high as the 1st. Lesser Splanchnic Nerve - 10th & 11th ganglia. Least Splanchnic Nerve-12th ganglion. Pass downwards & inwards upon bodies of vertebrae being either more or less separate h distinct from each other, or more or less plexiform, and frequently presenting, when plexiform, either one relatively large ganglion, the ganglion splanchnicum, or several smaller ones. Perforate diaphragm conjointly or separately. End, the two first mainly in solar plexus, the last mainly in the renal. - The majority of the fibres of the great splanchnic nerve descend directly to the semilunar ganglion of same side. The great splanchnic nerves are white & firm in texture, as are also the branches of the superior mesenteric plexus. SOLAR or EPIGASTRIC PLEXUS Is formed mainly by the splanchnic nerves & the right pneumogastric, but is also reinforced ' to some extent by the left pneumogastric h by both phrenics. It lies behind the stomach, between the suprarenal capsules, above the pancreas; and sur. rounds the cceliac axis & root of superior mesenteric artery with a dense network of ! nerves & ganglia, the two largest of which ganglia are the Semilunar Ganglia - Irregularly semilunar in shape, and lie in front of crura of diaphragm on inner side of suprarenal capsules. Their upper enlarged extremity receives the greater part of great splanchnic nerve. Their smaller & lower extremity, and their outer convex & inner concave borders 1 give oflP large ofisets to solar plexus. || Its filaments spread out upon the branches of first part of abdominal aorta & their divisions, jj forming plexuses proportionate in size to, and, of the same name as, the arteries on i| which they are found j the plexus is then continued downwards upon the aorta into ii the aortic or lumbo-aortic plexus. \ From the solar plexus are thus derived the: Phrenic Plexus - From upper part of semilunar ganglion; joins with phrenic nerves |j from cervical plexus, and sends filaments to the suprarenal capsules. - On i' the right side, on which side it is the largest, it presents a small ganglion, | the ganglion diaphragmaticum, from which ganglion small twigs may be |l traced to suprarenal capsules, vena cava, & hepatic plexus, ijj CoeliaC Plexus - Large, partly formed by left pneumogastric. Divides into plexuses: [ Gastric - With gastric artery along lower curvature of stomach; joins with pneumc / gastrics & pyloric plexus. Hepatic - To liver upon hepatic vessels & bile ducts; joins with left pneumogastric I & right phrenic. Kamifies on hepatic artery & vena ports©, and gives off i plexuses:. Pyloric- To pylorus; joins with gastric. j Castro-duodenalis - Descends behind duodenum, and divides into right gastro. ! epiploic & superior pancreatico-duodenal 11 Cyslic - To gall-bladder. | Splenic - From solar plexus, right semilunar ganglion & right pneumogastric. Upon » ; Fana-eatic splenic artery to spleen, giving ofi" plexuses: 1 Left gastro-epiploic \ and ! Twigs to stomach along vasa brevia. Superior Mesenteric Plexus - From lower part of solar plexus «& right pneurao. gastric. Descends into mesentery, presenting numerous ganglia at its upper part, and gives off plexuses: Infenorpancreatico-duodenal, ileo-colic, right colic, middle colic, and twigs to small intestine which divide & anastomose like the arteries, but with less regularity, and reach intestine along its attached border. Suprarenal Plexus - From semilunar ganglia, splanchnic & phrenic nerves; presents the ganglion suprarenale. - The suprarenal capsules receive also a few twigs directly from phrenic & renal plexuses. Renal Plexus - From splanchnic nerves, especially the least, solar & aortic plexuses. Gives off a few twigs to suprarenal capsule, & on right side to inferior vena . cava, and forms greater part of spermatic plexus. Spermatic Plexus (Ovarian Plexus in Female) - Mainly derived from renal plexus and also to some extent from the aortic. Accompanies spermatic or ovarian artery to testis, or to ovary & fundus of uterus