340 i THE VAS DEFEBENS, VESICULA SEMINALES, & EJl- CULATORY DUC1L ! i VAS DEFERENS j Ascends on inner side of epididymis along lt»wer three-fonrths of posterior l)order of ij, tide, to whicli it is attached by firm areolar tif 5, Along back of spermatic cord to external abdominal ring ; Through external abdominal ring, inguinal canal & internal abdominal ring; Downwards, backwards, inwards to base of bladder, passing on outer side of epigasti & obliterated hypogastric arteries and then on inner side of ur( . Forwards & inwards between bladder & rectum, along inner side of vesicula semii g becoming enlarged & saccula ; Narrows to a point, and joins opposite base of prostate with duct of corresponding ^ . cula seminalis, to form the common seminal or ejaculatory (" p. Its canal is very small. Its walls are very thick & dense, and consist from wit't inwards of a cellular coat, of a muscular coat presenting two longitudinal lays i , an intermediate circular layer of fibres, and of a mucous coat covered with col . ' nEW non-ciliated epithel;. The vas aberrans of Haller communicates with the canal of the epididj j or with the commencement of the vas defer . VESICULA SEMINALES Two lobnlated membranous pouches about 2J inches long obliquely disposed bet\ 1 base of bladder & second part of rectum, and present; Post. Diverging Extremities - Enlarged, and reach as far back as- . mination of ure . Ant. Converging Extremities - Pointed; join at base of prostate with ter: . ; ation of the corresponding vas deferens to form the common semini jr ejaculatory (; Upper Surface - in contact with base of bladder. Under Surface - Rests upon second part of rectum, from which it is t rated by a process of the recto-vesical layer of the pelvic faii They have the enlarged & sacculated vasa deferentia to their inner side, and bo) laterally a triangular portion of the base of the bladder which correspt to trigonum ves Xach vesicula seminalis consists of a tube from four to six inches long, and of abouti diameter of a crow quill. This tube is irregularly coiled upon itself, gives off numerous coecal diverticula, which, as well as the coils of tube, are bound together by firm areolar tissue. Its walls are thin, t consist of fibrous, muscular & mucous coats, the epithelium of the la ' being squam ' EJACULATORY DUCTS Two small canals about | of an inch in length formed by the junction opposite Mie ] of the prostate of the vas deferens with the duct of the vesicula semiri They pass forwards & inwards through the substance of the prostate along the sidi the vemmontanum, and terminate by a slit-like opening upon or within the i • gins of the vesicula prostatica or sinus po^i !' Their walls are thin, and consist of a delicate fibrous ooat & of mnsoular & mucous w i