7 ^TLAS & AXIS. THE ATLAS Presents anterior & posterior arches, foramen, and lateral maasds. ANTERIOR ARCH -Presents: Anterior Surf. - Convex, in centre of which is a tubei'de for superior oblique portion of longns colli, and for snperfioif*^ anterior occipito-atloid & superficial anterior atlo-axoid ligaments. Posterior SuRr. - Concave, in centre of which is an oval facet, which articulates with odontoid process of axis. Upper & Lower Borders - For deep anterior occipito-atloid & deep anterior atlo- axoid ligaments. POSTERIOR ARCH — Presents just behind the lateral masses the Grooves representing the superior dr' inferior intervertebral notches. - Tho superior grooves, which are the deepest and are sometimes con- verted into complete foramina, transmit the vertebral artery & the suboccipital nerve. The posterior arch then becomes rounded, and is rough above & below for the posterior occipito-atloid & posterior atlo- axoid ligaments. It ends posteriorly in a tubercle for rectus capitis posticus minor. FORAMEN — Large, and divided by transverse ligament (transverse'portion of crucial liga- ment) into a posterior part, the largest, for spinal cord & its membranes, and an anterior part, the smallest, which receives the odontoid process of the axis. LATERAL MASSES — Short & thick columns of bone, which present internally, externally, above & below, a tubercle for the transverse ligament; Transverse Process - Large, not bifid nor grooved superiorly, perforated at its base by a very large foramen; Sup. Articular Surf - Large, oval, concave, converging towards its fellow anteriorly, and looking upwards, inwards & slightly backwards. Inf. Articular Surf. - Rather smaller, flat, circular, and looking downwards & inwarda f THE AXIS Presents the following peculiarities Body - -A- good deal thicker in front than behind. It presents anteriorly a median ridge 6^ two lateral depressions for part of internal or vertical por- tion of longus colli, and is surmounted by the Odontoid Process - Tooth-like, presenting: Apex - For median or suspensory occipito-odontoid ligament, and, laterally, for lateral occipito-odontoid, or check ligaments. Body - Articular in front & behind for anterior arch of atlas & transverse ligament. Neck - Constricted, and bound down by transverse ligament. Pedicles - strong & thick, lie beneath the superior articular surface, and are but very slight- ly grooved superiorly. Notclies - The superior are very shallow, and lie behind the superior articular surfaces : the inferior ones are much deeper and lie in front of the correspond- ing articular surfaces. Lanainse - Thick & strong. Foramen - Large, but smaller than that of atlas. Spinous Process - Thick, bifid, deeply grooved inferiorly. Transverse Processes - Small, pointed; foramen oblique upwards & outwards. Articular Surfaces: Superior - Eest upon the body, pedicles & transverse processes in front of tit ^ notches, and are large, flat, circular, and look upwards & out wards. Inferior - Smaller, look downwards & forwards, and are similar to those of tho other oervicftl vertebr©.