308 THE RECTUM Commences opposite left sacro-iliao Bynchondrosis. Passes downwards & to the right to middle, or to a little to the right of middle, of th piece of sacn' Curves forwards tipon concavity of sacrum & coccyx, regaining middle line if latter;' been pass Inclines downwards & backwards to anus. Is smooth & cylindrical, not sacculated ; about 8 inches long. Rather narrower above tl sigmoid flexure, but it increases as it descends, and is greatly dilated just ab anus. - Divided into three pai UPPER PART — From sacro-iliac synchondrosis to middle, or to a little to the righ middle, of third piece of sacrum j about 4 inches lo Almost completely surrounded by meso-rectum. Separated by small intestine from bladder, in the male, & from uterus & vagina, in female; and connected inferiorly with latter organs by the folds of peritone which form margins of recto-vesical & recto-vaginal pouches respectivt Rests upon pyriformis muscle & sacral plexus of left side. Has to its left side left ureter & branches of left internal iliac artery. MIDDLE PART — From middle of third piece of sacrum to tip of coccyx; about 3 inolj lo Covered by peritoneum in front & at sides above, in front only towards middle, s at all be! In relation below & in front with: In the Male - Triangular portion of base of bladder, vesiculse seminale vasa deferentia, and under surface of prostf l^ THE Female - Middle part of posterior wall of vagina, to which it is clos adhere LOWER PART — From tip of coccyx to anus; about an inch in length. Invested by the internal & external sphincters & by the levatores ani. Separated by a triangular space, the perinseum, from membranous portion of urethn! bulb, in the male, from vagina, in the femii STRUCTURE — Presents: Serous Coat - Covers upper & middle parts of rectum, the former almost compi tely, the latter in front & at sides above, in front only towards middle, i at all bell I Muscular Coat - Very thick ; consists of fibres: j External Longitudinal - Form a thick uniform layer all round intestine, j; Internal Circular - Are most numerous at lower end of rectum, where tl form internal spuincj' Cellular Coat - Forms a loose connection between the muscular & mucous ooaj Mucous Membrane - Thick, very vascular, freely movable upon muscular co ! Presenii Longitudinal Folds-Most marked below; due to contraction of sphino : and disappear on distent! | Permanent Transverse Folds, or Folds of Houston - Three principal od semilunar, sometimes half an inch in depth, situated at upper part right side, near middle of rectum on left side, and at front pi opposite base of bladd Vessels & Nerves - Arteries. From superior, middle & inferior hcemorrhoid they form a rich network beneath & within mucous membrane, the mesl of which network are mainly longitudinal in lower part of rectum, a connected opposite anus, by large transverse branches (Quain),-Ve Also mainly longitudinal near anus; open partly into internal iliacs partly into inferior mesenteric. - Lymphatics. Open into glands in holl of sacrum, or into lumbar glands. - Nerves. From sacral plexus,^^ •acral & inferior hoemorrhoidal nerves, and from inferior mesenteric hypogastric plexns