359 THE HUMOURS or REFRACTING MEDIA of the EYE Ai e: The Aqueous Ilitviour. The Lens and its Capsule, "which are held in position by the suspeoiory ligament of the lens, or zonula of Zimi. The Vitreous Body and its Capsule or Syaloid Membrane. Aqueous Humour Differs little from water, for it contains but a very small amount of solid matter, chiefly chloride of sodium. It fills the space between the cornea in front, and the lens with its suspensory ligament behind. This space forms in front of, and behind the iris, what used to be called respectively the anterior and pos- terior aqueous chambers of the eye. These terms were, however, based on an anatomical error, for the iris is now known to lie in the greatest part of its extent in immediate contact with the lens; the only space therefore which remains behind the iris to represent the posterior chamber is a narrow angular interval between the peripheral part of the iris, the suspensory ligament of the lens, and the ciliary processes. The Lens Is a double-convex transparent body, the convexity of which is greater on its posterior than on its anterior surface. It is situated between the iris and the vitreous body, and is held in position by its suspensory ligament. It is closely surrounded by its capsule. Its anterior surface is in contact with the iris towards the pupil, but recedes slightly at the periphery. lt& posterior surface rests upon the vitreous body. Its circiimference is surrounded by the canal of Petit. STKUCTUEE.—The lens consists of superposed concentric layers, the density of which increases with their depth, the superficial layers being soft and almost pulpy, the central ones forming a hard nucleus. These layers are formed of transparent flattened fibres, which adhere to each other by slightly serrated margins, and in some of which are found transparent nuclei. They are divided in the foetus and infant into three triangular segments, the planes of separation between which segments accurately correspond on each of the two surfaces of the lens, but do not correspond with the planes of separation of the segments on the opposite surface, being on the contrary so arranged that each plane on one surface corresponds to the interval between two of the planes on the opposite surface. The fibres of eacn segment arise from the various points of the two planes bounding the segcieni, and pass to the periphery of the lens nearly parallel to each other. Having curved round the edge of the lens, they belong, on its opposite surface, to two different segments, and converge towards the boundary plane which corresponds to the bisecting line of the segment on the first surface. Thus the fibres do not pass from pole to pole, but from a plane on one side of the lens to a plane on the other. Those which arise near the pole on one side terminate near the peripheral extremity of a plane on the other, and vice versa. In the adult the planes bifurcate and multiply, and the segments become more numerous. The arrangement of the fibres of each segment with respect to the planes remains, however, the same. Capsule of the Lens Is a transparent, structm^eless, elastic, brittle membrane, thicker in front than behind. When ruptured, ib curls up with its outer surface innermost. It closely surrounds the lens, from which it is, however, separated in front hy a single layer of granular nucleated polygonal cells, which absorb moisture and break down soon after death, and thus give rise to the liquor Morgagni, wrongly described at one time as existing during life. It gives attachment in front to the suspensory ligament of the lens, and is joined behind with the hyaloid membrane. Suspensory Ligament of the Lens, or Zonula of Zinn Is a firm, transparent, structureless membrane, which is attached in front to the fore part of the capsule o.t the lens close to its circumference, and which joins posteriorly the hyaloid membrane opposite the ora serrata. Its anterior surface presents small radiating folds, the processus ciliares zonuije, which are received betweeii the ciliary processes of the choroid. Its posterior surface is separated from the hyaloid membrane by the canal of Petit. The Vitreous Body and its Capsule, or Hyaloid Membrane. The vitreous body fills the space between the retina and the lens, both of which it supports, and for tho reception of which latter it is excavated in front. It consists of a perfectly transparent albuminous fluid, enclosed in a delicate structiu*eless membrane, the hyaloid, from the inner surface of which it has been said, but not proved—at least not in the adult-* that delicate fibres are given off to form more or less perfect septa within the fluid part. The hyaloid membrane is connected opposite the ciliary processes with the suspensory ligament of the lens; further inwards it forms the posterior boundary of the canal of Petit; behind the lens it ifl inti- mately united vrith the liosterior lamella of the capsule of that b'^'^y.