254 ANTERIOR DIVISIONS of the SPINAL NERVES.-1st T. Larger tlian tlie posterior (tho two first excepted), and connected by one or two filanienta with the sympathetic. ANTEEIOR DIVISION OF First Cervical Nerve (Suboccipital) - Small. Eaiergeg between occipital bone & posterior arch of atlas below vertebral artery. Passes forwards oa inner side of vertebral artery & rectus lateralis muscle, crosses foramen in transverse process of atlas, and descends in front of this process to join with ascendinf^ branch of the second. Supplies the rectus lateralis & the recti capitis antici major & minor, and communicates with the pueumogastrio, hypoglossal, & superior cervical ganglion of sympathetic. Second Cervical Nerve - Larger than foregoing, but still much smaller than the poster. ior division of the same nerve. Emerges between posterior arch of atlas & lamina of axis, passes forwards between transverse processes of the same vertebrae on outer side of vertebral artery, and divides into an ascending branch, which joins the first nerve, and a descending branch, which joins tho third, . Gives off the small occipital nerve, HTlVCd Cervical Nerve - Much larger than the two foregoing, and larger than the poster. ior division of the same nerve, as are also the anterior divisions of all the following nerves. Passes downwards & outwards beneath sterno-mastoid, and divides into • - Ascending Branch - Joins with second, sympathetic & spinal accessory, and divides into great auricular & superficial cervical. Descending Branch - Descends in front of scalenus anticus, and joins with 4bh. Gives ofi" a few of the superficial descending branches of the cervical plexaa. Fourth Cervical Nerve - Joins with 3rd & 5th, and usually also with the phrenic, passes downwards & outwards beneath sterno-mastoid, and gives off the greatei part of the superficial descending branches of the cervical plexD FoUl' Lower Cervical Nerves ~ Much larger than foregoing, and enter into formatic of brachial plexus (Yide Brachial Plexas| Dorsal Nerves - "Vide next Tablet. Lumbar Nerves - Larger than the dorsal, and increase in size from above downward8.j They communicate with the ganglia of the sympathetic by long slender filament which accompany the lumbar arteries round the sides of the bodies of the vertebra beneath the psoas. The four upper nerves join to form the lumbar plexus, branch from the 4th joins the 5th to form the lumbosacral nerve or cord (Yic Lumbar & Sacral Plexuses.] Sacral Nerves - Diminish in size from above downwards. The four upper onerf emerg from the anterior sacral foramina j the 5th, together with the anterior division of the coccygeal nerve, after emerging from the spinal canal through its terminal aper. ture, curves forwards between the sacrum & the coccyx. The two first, which are much the largest, the 3rd, and a part of the 4th, join with the lumbo-saoral cord to form the sacral plexus (Vide Sacral Plexus). The remainder of the 4th entei'S into the formation of the inferior hypogastric or pelvic plexas, (as do also a few twigs Irom the 3rd nerve, and sometimes also twigs from tho 1st & 2nd), joins with the 5tii nerve, and supplies the coccygeus, levator & sphincter ani, & the integument behind the anus. The 5th nerve communicates with the 4fch, descends upon the coccygeus to tip of coccyx, and then perfo-ates the muscle to integument between anus & cocc/x; it joins with 4th & coccygeal. Coccygeal Nerve - Yery small. Emerges from termination of spinal canal, comes forward between sacram & coccyx piercing the sacro-sciatio ligaments & the coccygeus, joins with 5th sacral, and is lost in the integument at back & side of coccyx,