315 THE EXTERNAL BILE DUCTS. Hepatic Duct - Formed in transverse fissure by junction of the two largo excretory ducts from right & left lobes. Downwards & to the right between the two layers of lesser or gastro-hepatio omentum & behind first portion of duodenum, having hepatic artery on the left & vena portse behind, and joins with cystic duct to form ductus com- munis choledochus. Is about an inch & a half long, and is intermediate in size between cystic duct & ductus communis choledochus. GALL-BLADDER — Pear-shaped, three or four inches long, an inch wide at largest part; holds from 8 to 12 drachms. Obliquely directed downwards, forwards, & to the right, & lies in a fissure or fossa on under surface of liver between lobus quadratus «fe right lobe proper. Presents* Under Surface - Covered by peritoneum, which in most cases merely passes over it; in relation with hepatic flexure of colon & first part of duodenum j some- times with pyloric end of stomach. - Occasionally the peritoneum entirely surrounds the gall-bladder, which latter is then connected to the liver by a small mesentery. UPPER Surface - Connected to the liver by firm areolar tissue & vessels; sometimes ^ by a small mesentery. Anterior Enlarged Extremity, or Fundus - Covered by peritoneum; touches ab- dominal parietes opposite tip of 10th costal cartilage. Posterior Constricted Extremity, or Neck - ¥■ - ma tw- rums upon itself like an italic/, a; : is coui.uiied into the cystic duct. Cystic Duct - Downwards & to the left between the two layers & along the right border of lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum and behind ascending portion of duodenum, having the cystic artery on the left & the vena portse behind, and joins with hepatic duct to form ductus communis choledochus. Is about an inch long, and is rather narrower than the hepatic duct. Ductus Communis Choledochus - Downwards & slightly to the left between the two layers & along the right border of lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum, having hepatic artery on the left & vena portse behind. Between head of pancreas & descending portion of duodenum on right side of pancreatic duct, and with pancreatico-duodenal arteries which lie slightly ■n - , , . in front. Jfertorates muscular coat of intestine in common with the latter duct. Both ducts then run together for about three-quarters of an inch between coats of intestine, and, becoming slightly constricted, open by a common & promi- nent orifice situated on inner wall of descending portion of duodenum a little below its middle, about three or four inches from pylorus. - The common bile duct is about three inches long. STRUCTURE — The external bile ducts, as well as the larger intra-hepatic bile ducts, present fibro-muscular & mucous coats, in addition to a Peritoneal Investment - Covering under surface & fundus of gall-bladder. Fibro-Muscular Coat - Consists of a dense meshwork of brilliant fibres of white fibrous tissue interlacing in all directions, and of plain muscular fibres, which latter are mainly longitudinal. 3V[UC0US Coat - strongly tinged with bile, covered with columnar epithelium and raised in the gall-bladder into a network of prominent rugae, in the polygonal depressions bounded by which rugae are seen the openings of numerous mucous follicles. Where the neck of the gall-bladder curves upon itself the mucous membrane projects inwards in the shape of a prominent valvular fold. In the cystic duct it is elevated into a series of oblique crescentic folds, which, together, present somewhat of the appearance of a continuous spiral valve. - The arteries & nerves of the gall-bladder are from the cystic branch of the hepatic artery, & the casliac plexus j its veins open into the vena portse.