52 THE FIBULA —1st Tablet. Very slender, and of about the same length as the tibia. Inclined downwards & forwards, convex posteriorly, convex internally below. Presents a shaft & two extremities. SHAFT — Presents /?«r borders & four surfaces. - (For classical description, see next Tablet). Borders - Are: Antero-external - Usually called anterior. Well marked & prominent. Commences at front of head. Descends along upper 3.4ths of the bone, slightly deviating outwards inferiorly, and bifurcates below to embrace the triangular subcutaneous surface above external malleolus. It girea attachment to the septum between the extensor muscles & the peronei. Antero-internal, or Interosseous Ridge - Lies close to the preceding, espe. cially at the upper part of the bone, where it is sometimes rather in- distinct. It inclines inwards inferiorly, and blends, in the lower l-4tb of the bone, with the oblique line, with which oblique line it ends at apes of triangular rough surface above articular facet of external malleolus/ Postero-external - Usually called posterior. - Well marked & prominent Extends from styloid process to inner Hp of groove on posterior bordei of external malleolus, being directed, in succession, outwards, back wards, backwards & inwards. It gives attachment to the septuir between the peronei & the flexor muscles Posteko-internal, or Oblique Line - Commences at inner side of head, mos marked in upper & middle parts of the bone. Blends in lower fourtl with the antero-internal border or interosseous ridge, with which latte it ends at the apex of the triangular rough surface above articular face of external malleolu Surfaces-Are: Anterior - Very narrow above, rather broader & slightly grooved below; fo extensor longus digitorum, extensor proprius pollicis peroneus tertius External - Broad, more or less grooved for peronei. Looks in succession foi wards & outwards, outwards, backwards & outwards, and is continue inferiorly into the groove on back of external malleolu Internal - Comprised between the antero-internal border or interosseous ridg and the postero-internal border or oblique line, and exists only in tt upper 3-4ths of the bone. Bather narrow, but less so than the anteri( surface, slightly grooved for tibialis posticu Posterior - Comprised between the postero-external border & the oblique lin Broad, looking inwards below; for soleus & flexor longus pollici Presents towards its middle the nutrient foramen, which is directt downward ■ UPPER EXTREMITY, or HEAD — Small, pyramidal. Rough in front, externally, behind respectively fo peroncKs longus anterior ligament of superior tibio-fibular art ulatio) tendon of biceps, long external lateral Uganient of knee-joint, soleus, &> posterior liga ment of superior tibio-fibular articulation Prolonged upwards externally into the Styloid p7-ocess, for short external lateral ligament of knee-joint. Presents internally a small Articular facet looking upwards & inwards, which facet articulal with outer tuberosity of tib LOWER EXTREMITY, or EXTERNAL MALLEOLUS — Rather larger th head, flattened from within outwards, and descends lower than interi malleolus. Presen Surfaces: Outer - Subcutaneous, convex, prolonged upwards between the divisions ' the anterc'external bord Inner - Presents: Above &> in Front - Articular facet for astragalus, triangular with b i upwards, convex from above downwards, surmounted bj i rough triangular impression for interosseous ligament of infei'' tibio-fibular articulat • Belo^v 6^ Behind - Rough & deep depression for posterior fasciculus f , external lateral ligament of ankle-jo . Borders: Anterior - Thick & rounded, for anterior fasciculus of external lateral li • ment of ankle-jc i» Posterior - Broader, and marked by a groove for tendons of peronei. Apex - Rounded, for middle fasciculus of external lateral ligament of ankle-joint.