368 THE INTERNAL EAR or LABYRINTH Consists of a series of cavities, the osseous labyrinth, channelled out ot the substance of the petrous bone lined throughout by a thin fibro-serous membrane, the free surface of which secretes a lympid fluid, perily j or liquor Cotunnii, in which fluid floats a closed rnemhranoug sac, the mambranous labyrinth, which h] is very similar in shape to, but is smaller than, the osseous vestibule and semi-circular canals, and whiJ itself filled with a serous lympid fluid, endolymph. Some minute structures recently discovered in the coci also form part of the labyrinth. Osseous Labyrinth Consists of the vestibule, the semi-circular canals, and the cochlea. 1 Vestibule Is the central cavity of the labyrinth. It is situated on the inner side of the tympanum. It comnj h cates, in front, by a large opening, with the scala vestibuli of the cochlea, and behind, by it- openings, with the semi-circular canals. On its outer, or tympanic wall, is the fenestra ovalis, which is closed by the base of the stapes and its ano ligt., by which fenestra the cavity of the vestibule communicates with that of the tympanum. \ ] Its inner wall presents in front a small circular depression, the fovea hemispherica, which corresponds to p \ saccule, and at the lower part of which several minute foramina, forming the macula cribrosa, are see p 1 give passage to the filaments of the saccular branch of the vestibular nerve ; behind the fovea, i bounding it posteriorly, is a vertical ridge, the crysta or pyramidal eminence. Behind this is the opei !j i of the aqueductus vestibuli. • ' On its roof, above and behind the fovea hemispherica, and separated from it by the pyramidal eminenci la I the fovea semi-elliptica, a small transversely oval depression, which corresponds to theutricule, and pres js another similar macula cribrosa for the passage of the utricular and ampullar branches of the vestib f nerve. Semicircular Canals ii Are situated behind and a little above the vestibule. They are three in number, and are termed re.spectiBll superior, posterior, external. Each one is at right angles with the two others. f' The superior and the posterior are vertical. The former ]s placed at ngiit les v\ith, the latter is parallel | the posterior surface of the petrous bone. They both present a dilatation, or ampulla, the former a1 j} outer, the latter at its inferior, extremity. They join at their opposite extremities, which open by a c • . mon orifice at the posterior and inner part of the vestibule. The external semi-circular canal is horizontal, and directed outwards and backwards. It is ampullated a1 outer extremity. Cochlea Is situated in front of the vestibule. In shape it resembles a snail shell. Its base is directed inwards, and corresponds to the anterior of the two depressions at the bottom of ) internal auditory meatus. It is perforated by numerous small openings for the passage of the filami > of the cochlear branch of the auditory nerve. Its apex is directed forwards and outwards. The cochlea presents for examination the modiolus or columella, the spiral canal, and the lamina spiralis. The Modiolus—is the central axis of the cochlea. It is conical in shape. Its base corresponds to the basjf I the cochlea, and presents the apertures above-mentioned. Its apex is situated within the last coil ani;|bj the apex of the cochlea, and it is expanded into a semi-funnel-shaped lamella, the infundibulum, wl (V blends externally with the parietes of the cupola. Its outer surface forms the inner wall of the sj \ canal. Its centre is channelled by the tubulus centralis modioli, and by numerous smaller canal£i the passage of small arteries and of the filaments of the cochlear nerve. j The Spiral Canal—takes two turns and a half. It diminishes in size as it approaches the apex of' cochlea, and terminates in a closed extremity, the cupola. It has been described till lately as \>>!? divided by the lamina spiralis into two scalce, the scala tympani and the scala vestibuli, the for r of which is turned towards the base, and the latter towards the apex of the cochlea. The Lamina Spiralis—Winds spirally round the modiolus. It presents an osseous part or osseous z broad at the base of the cochlea, much narrower at the apex, which zone extends from the modiolus ali t half way across the spiral canal, and is continued to the opposite wall by a membranous portjjj or membranous zone. The osseous zone consists of two thin lamellae of bone, between which [fl numerous minute canals for the passage of the filaments of the cochlear nerve. For the membrai zone see minute structures of cochlea. t The scala tympani is closed below by the membrane of the fenestra rotunda, and communicates with the ajj duct of the cochlea. The scala vestibuli communicates with the vestibule. The two seal® communij with each other at the apex of the cochlea by a common opening, the " helicotrema."