339 ITBUCTURE of the TESTICLE & EPIDIDYMIS. I STRUCTURE of the TESTICLE — Presents for examination: - THREE IMMEDIATE COVERINGS : - Tunica Vaginalis - Vide Coverings of the testicle. Tunica Albuginea - Thick, dense, bluish-white, fibrous membrane, covered exter- nally by the tunica vaginalis propria except along the points of attach- ment of^ the epididymis & vas deferens, and reflected into the interior of the testicle along its posterior or upper border in the shape of an incom- plete vertical septum, the mediastinum testis or Corpus Highmorianum. This latter body supports the vessels & nerves and the excretory ducts of the testicle in their passage to or from the gland, and gives off numerous trabeculsB, which radiate towards the whole extent of the inner surface of the tunica albuginea, and inclose the numerous pyramidal spaces con- taining the lobules of the gland substance. Tunica Vasculosa or Pia Mater Testis - Consists of a plexus of blood-vessels held together by delicate areolar tissue, and formed by the subdivision of the superficial set of brs. of the spermatic arte.ry. Branches given off by this plexus, penetrate into the substance of the gland, supported by the trabeculae. PROPER SUBSTANCE or PARENCHYMA — Consists of numerous pyramidal lobules contained in the pyramidal spaces bounded by the trabeculae, and pre- senting a base directed towards the surface of the testicle and an apex directed towards the mediastinum. Of these lobules the central ones are the largest. The degree to which the lobules are isolated by the trabeculae is somewhat vari- able, hence the different estimates of their number, 250 (Berres), 400 (Krause). £ack lobule consists of from otic to three or more tubuli seminiferi, the number & the length of which tubuli has also been variously estimated,- 300, sixteen feet in length (Monro), 840, two feet & a quarter in length (Lauth). - The diameter of the tubuli is from g^i^ to of an inch. They consist from without inwards of a delicate fibro-areolar coat, a basement membrane, and sometimes a layer of granular nucleated epithelium. The epithelium is absent, however, when tho gland is particularly active; the tubuli are then filled with cells of different sizes without any regular arangement. tubuli seminiferi commence towards the surface of the testicle, sometimes by free coecal or blind extremities, but more commonly by anastomatic loops. They are exceedingly convoluted in the peripheral part of the gland ; their convolutions are of two orders, viz., a fine & regular undulation giving a granular appear- ance to the whole of their mass, and a more complicated folding of the undulating tube. Towards the apices of the lobules they become straighter, and they coalesce into from twenty to thirty straight tubes the vasa recia^ which are from to of an inch in diameter. The vasa recta enter the mediastinum, and passing upwards & backwards, they form within that body a network of anastomosing tubules, the rete testis or rete vasculosum testis. The rete testis is continued superiorly into from twelve to fifteen or twenty vasa efferentia The vasa efferentia perforate the tunica albuginea at the upper & back part of the testicle. In their extra-testicular course, which is about 6 or 8 inches long, they are at first straight & relatively wide, but they soon become convoluted & slightly narrowed, and form a series of conical masses, the coni vasculosis which latter constitute together the globus major of the epididymis. They are lined with ciliated epithelium. The excretory ducts of the testicle open finally into the commencement of the canal of the epididymis at apparently narrow intervals, which intervals however, are seen, when the canal of the epididymis is unravelled, to measure from two to three inches in length. STRUCTURE of the EPIDIDYMIS The epididymis consists of a single tube about twenty feet long, by which the tubuli seminiferi open into the vas deferens. It is at first very thin & exceedingly convoluted, and of a diameter of about of an inch. It diminishes a little in size for a short distance, but it soon increases con- siderably, the thickness of its walls increasing also, and its course becoming less tortuous. A little fine areolar tissue binds its convolutions together, thicker septa being interposed between the larger masses of coils termed lobes, which latter are mostly transverse in direction. The epithelium of the canal of the epididymis is ciliated (Becker, Kolliker). - The Vas aberrana of Haller (Vide spermatic cord) is usually connected either with the canal of th© epididymis or with the commence- ment of the vaa deferens.