354 THE OVARY. Oral, flattened from above downwards. Lies in posterior part of broad ligament, below behind the Fallopian tube; and is attached internally to the uterus by the ligament of th" j ovary, and externally to one of the fimbriaa of the morsus diaboli. It is whitish in ooloni [ and its surface is smooth in the child, uneven & puckered in the adult' STRUCTURE of the OVARY — Presents SEROUS COAT — investing the whole organ except its anterior attached margin which forms the /liltWi FIBROUS COAT, or TUNICA ALBUGINEA — Firm, dense, enclosing the STROMA — A reddish white vascular structure, the fibres of which, although forming i felted tissue, radiate somewhat from the hilura towards the periphery of th j organ. Its peripheral or cortical portion contains th( i Graafian Vesicles, or Ovisacs - About 70,000 in number, varying in sizi from -gL to -gL of an inch in diameter j from ten to twenty or thirty of then being after puberty enlarged to from to of an inch or more. Eacl vesicle presents 1. Externalfibro-vascular coat, 2, Internal coat, or oz'i-capszile. Layer oj nucleated cells, the meuihrana orautdosa. 4. A transparent aronminoHS flnid^ in which the ovam is first suselj pended. - When the Graafian vesicle and its contained ovum are mature the cells of the membrana granulosa are heaped up at one point into { pyramidal eminence, the discnsproligerus, in which the ovum is then found - The Graafian vesicles enlarge one after the other, and appi'oach the sur face of the ovary, forming small projections beneath the peritoneum, and at each menstrual period, one of them bursts and projects its contents into the Fallopian tube. The oz!zun, when mature, varies in size from to of an inch iuj diameter. It consists externally of a thick colourless transparent envelope;! the vitelline membrane or zona pelhicida^ internally to which is the yelk on vitellnSi composed of granules of various sizes imbedded in a more fluid sub- stance. In the yelk is the vesicula genninativa, or genninal vesicle, firsf situated in the centre of the yelk, and then towards the periphery near the surface of the ovary. Finally this p;erminal vesicle presents super- ficially a minute spot, the macula germinativa or germinal spot^ of from ^ to 2^0^ of an inch in diameter. The rupture of the Graafian vesicle and the subsequent process of repair' of the surface of the ovary give rise to the corpus luteum (Vide Physiology). VESSELS & NERVES — Artehies. The ovarian, anastomose with the uterine, and enter at the anterior or attached border of the organ. - Veins. Follow the arteries, forming the pampiniform plexus, and open on the right side into the interior cava, on the left side into the left renal. - Lymphatics. Accompany the blood-vessels, and open into the lumbar glands. - Nerves. From the ovariau plexus of the sympathetic, the Fallopian also receiving a branch from one oli Ih© uterine nerves,-