369 THE MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH Is a closed sac corresponding in shape to, but smaller than, the osseous vestibule and semicircular canals, in which it is contained. It floats in the perilymph, contains the endolymph, and supports the terminal rami- fications of the vestibular branch of the auditory nerve, by which it is held in position. The canalis cochleae of Keissner (see minute structures of the cochlea) communicates with the saccule, and is now described as a part of the membranous labyrinth. Vestibular Portion Consists of two sacs, the utriculo and the saccule, which are generally believed to have no communication with each other. The Utricule is the largest. It is transversely oval, and is situated behind the saccule, opposite the fovea semi- elliptica, at the upper and back part of the osseous vestibule. It communicates behind by five openings with the membranous semicircular canals. The Saccule is the smallest. It is globular, and is situated a little below, and in front of the utricule in the fovea hemispherica close to the opening of the scala vestibuli of the cochlea. Membranous Semicircular Canals Are similar to the osseous semicircular canals in number, form and situation, but are only aboiit one-third their diameter. They open into the utricule by five orifices. The membranous labyrinth is semi-transparent, and is usually described according to Kolliker as being formed of three layers ; the outer layer containing the blood vessels, the terminal ramifications of the vestibular nerve and pigment cells, and being very similar to the outer layer or lamina fusca of the choroid ; the middle layer being transparent and similar to the hyaloid membrane of the eye, but being slightly striated ; the inner layer consisting of polygonal nucleated epithelial cells. Both Hirschfeld and Sappey, however, recognise only an outer layer of connective tissue containing vessels and nerves and a few pigment cells, and an inner layer of pavement epithelium.—The walls of the utiicule and saccule are thickest at the points where the filaments of the vestibular nerve, are distributed to them, and they present at those points two small collections of a pulverulent calcareous material, the otoconia, formed of minute crystalline grains of carbonate of lime (Breschet). It is only in the lower vertebrata that the o1 ocoraa is colJt cted into two hard masses or otoliths" (Breschet, Sappey), A simila,r calgareoug material exists in tlie cells lining the ampullae of th^ semicircular canals, (Bowmau), The Auditory Nerve Pivides in the internal auditory meatus into two branches, the vestibular and the cochlear nerves. Vestibular Nerve Divides into three branches, the divisions of which branches pass through the small openings at the upper and back part of the cul-de-sac at the bottom of the internal auditory meatus, and are distributed to the utricule, the saccule, and the ampullae opposite the masses of otoconia. Cochlear Nerve Divides into numerous filaments, which pass through the small openings at the base of the modiolus, and through the minute canals in its axis. These filaments bend outwards between the plates of the lamina spiralis, form- ing a plexus, in which ganglion-cells are found ; branches from this plexus perforate the lower edge of the osseous zone of the lamina spiralis, (habenula perforata) and form radiating bundles comprised partly within the osseous and partly within the membranous zone ; the terminal filaments of the cochlear nerve are believed to be connected with the spindle-shaped cells of the organ of Corti. (Kolliker). The Arteries of the Labyrinth Are first the internal auditory artery, a branch of the basilar artery or of the superior cerebellar, which artery presents a similar distribution to that of the auditory nerve, secondly branches from the stylo-mastoid arteiy. They form a minute capillary network on the walls of both the osseous and the membranous labyrinth. The veins accompany the arteries. A.