204 j COVEEINGS of the BRAIN & CORD —1st Tablet. The immediate coverings of both are three in number, and though presenting marked differ. M ences, they bear the same names, dtira mater^ arachnoid ^ pia mater* jl THE DURA MATER — is a thick, dense, fibrous membrane, which is lined internally ! by the parietal layer of the arachnoid. Dura Mater of the Brain - Forms the internal periosteum of the skull; it is pro- Jonged round all the cranial nerves, blending with their sheaths and becoming at their point of exit continuous with the pericranium; it is also prolonged into i the orbit. Its outer surface is rough &fibrillated; it is most adherent opposite the sutures at the base of the skull, and presents superiorly numerous glandules Pacchionii. Its inner surface is smooth; it sends three processes inwards, the falx cerebri the tentorium & falx cerebelli, in the attached margins of which processes are re- pectively contained the superior longitudinal, the lateral & superior petrosal, & the occipital sinuses, the falx cerebri having also the inferior longitudinal sinus r in its free margin. j Its arteries are derived from the middle & small meningeal, and from the meningeal 'j branches of the anterior & posterior ethmoidal, internal carotid, ascending pharyn. ' geal, occipital & vertebral, which arteries however supply principally the bonea | of the skull. Its veins, with the exception of the two which accompany the middle i meuingeal, join with the diploic veins and open into the sinuses. - Its nerves are ! small branches from the fourth cranial nerve, the Casserian ganglion, the ophthal- mic branch of the fifth, the eighth, & the sympathetic. Dura Mater of tlie Cord - Differs from that of the brain in that it does not form the internal periosteum of the bodies & laminge of the vertebrae, which periosteum is a distinct fibrous membrane separated from the dura mater by loose areolar tissue ; & by a plexus of veins, in that it sends no prolongations inwards, contains no sinuses, and forms, especially in the cervical & lumbar regions, but a loose sheath ; round the cord and the roots of the spinal nerves. It is attached superiorly the circumference of the foramen magnum, and anteriorly | i it is slightly adherent along its whole length to the posterior common ligament j of the spine. j Laterally when viewed from within, it is seen to give attachment to the processes of I the ligameutum denticulatam, and to present a double series of foramina for the | passage of the anterior & posterior roots of the nerves; when viewed from without it is seen to form a separate sheath to the roots of the nerves as far as their point of junction, and then to be continued upon the nerves, forming part of their neurilemma. Opposite the ter?ni)tation of the cord it blends with the pia mater to form the ligaraen- |; tum centrale, which passes down to the back of the coccyx, and which, in its upper ' part,^contains the filiform prolongation of the grey matter of the cord termed the filum terminale. \