303 iTRUCTUBE of the STOMACH. Its walls are thickest towards pylorus; they present four coats, and vessels & nerves. SEROUS COAT — Covers whole surface of stomach except points of attachment of gastro- splenic and greater & lesser omenta. MUSCULAR COAT - Consists of: Longitudinal Fibres - Superficial. Continuous with those of oesophagus & small in- testine. Thinly scattered over the surfaces; most marked along the curvatures, especially the lesser. Circular Fibres - Deeper. Form a complete & nearly uniform layer over whole of stomach, & a strong circular ring round pylorus. ObliC[Ue Fibres - The deepest. Form two sets, which embrace the right & left as- pects of the oesophageal opening, and spread out over anterior & posterior aspects of stomach except near lesser curvature. They are the continuation of the circular fibres of the oesophagus. CELLULAR COAT — Serves for the division of the blood vessels before they enter the mucous membrane. MUCOUS MEMBRANE — Thin towards cardia, thick towards pylorus, and covered with columnar non-ciliated epithelium. Thrown in contracted state of stomach into longitudinal plaits or rugae, which are most marked along greater curvature and towards lesser end, and which disappear on distention. - When examined with a lens it has, especially near pylorus, a honey-combed appear- ance due to shallow polygonal depressions or alveoli from 1 to 2 hundredths of an inch in diameter, in bottom of which alveoli are the openings of the Gastric Follicles, - which are of two kinds: Peptic Glands - Situated near cardia. Are simple tubular glands lined in their upper fourth with columnar epithelium, and filled with nu- cleated cells & nuclei in their deeper parts. Mucous Glands - Situated near pylorus. - Terminate in dilated saccular extremities, or are subdivided into from two to six tubular branches; they are lined throughout with columnar epithelium. Lenticular Glands - Are also found in small numbers, principally near pylorus & along lesser curvature. VESSELS & NERVES — Arteries. Are the gastric or coronaria ventriculi, pyloric, gastro-epiploicse dextra & "sinistra, and the vasa brevia. They all break up in the cellular or submucous coat, and then send up branches between the glandular tubes; these branches form a deep capillary plexus round the tubes and a superficial one round their orifices. - Veins. Follow the arteries. - Lymphatics. Are superficial & deep, and open into the glands along the two cm-vatures. - Nerves. Are from the sympathetic and from the right & left pneumogastrio nerves, the right pneumogastrio supplying the posterior, and the left one« the anterior surface of the orga«.