295'^ THE STETJCTURE of the LIVER. Biliary Capillaries Commence between & around the individual cells in a network much finer & closer tha that of the blood-capillaries. The vessels which form this network can be seen under hig powers as minute apertures between the flattened contiguous sides of adjacent hepatic cells, be they can scarcely be injected except through Chrzonszczewsky's method of "natural injet tion," which is as follows: - A solution of sulph-indigotate of soda is injected into ti internal jugular vein of a living animal (dog or sucking-pig), and the animal is killed short] afterwards. The blue colouring matter is then seen to have penetrated, according to the tlm the animal was allowed to live after the injection, first into the vessels of the liver, then int the hepatic cells, and finally into the biliary capillaries. \ It is believed that these capillaries have a proper wall of their own, though this wall lail not yet been demonstrat ed. They open into a fine intralobular plexus, the walls of which plexus ai i formed of an incomplete basement membrane lined with short polygonal cells which nearly fill i' the lumen. The succeeding interlobular plexus presents a complete basement membrane lin^ J-iie Larger Me-dnQts. 1^^^*^ columnar cell! The larger ducts contained in the portal canals have strong & distensible areolar coai containing a good deal of elastic tissue, and, in the largest ducts, a few plain muscular fibre The largest ducts are beset with true mucous glands; but, in addition to these glands, both the largest ducts, & those that are somewhat smaller, present numerous csecal recesses believed at oi ; time to be glandular. Some of these recesses are saccular in form j others are tubular j some a ' branched; some form an anastomosing network beset with smaller dilatations; and the dilatations are sometimes so numerous that they partly conceal the parent trunk. Hence t belief, once entertained by Henle & others, that it is these recesses, and not the hepatic cells, that a The Eegatic ^rtery. [engaged in the secretion of the bt Within the portal canals, the divisions of the hepatic artery give oflE three sets of brancb capsulari vaginal^ dj- interlobular. The ira^j^z/^^r branches spread out under the fibrous coat, whi I they supply. The vaginal branches ramify within the portal canals, and supply Glissoi! capsule and the walls of the blood-vessels & bile-ducts. The interlobular branches pass c between the lobules, in company with the interlobular branches of the portal vein, which brand are much larger than they. They supply that part of the capillary network of the lobul which is intermediate between the branches of distribution of the portal vein & the branches of orij of the hepatic veins, i.e., between the lobular branches of the portal vein & the intralobu! hepatic veins. This is shown by the results of post-mortem examinations in cases of active c( gestion of the liver, and by the results of Chrzonszczewsky's "natural injections" in anim; whose portal vein bas been tied : in both cases the lobules are stained in their central part (with bio i The Portal Vein. [orinjectionmatter, as the case may be), while their peripheral partis pj' Within the portal canals, the divisions of the portal vein receive capsular & vaginal branch which return the blood distributed to the liver by the corresponding brs. of the hepatic arte { The branches of distribution of the portal vein, i.e.y the interlobular & the lobular^ have aires I been described, page 314, the former as passing out between the lobules, the latter as peneti | ing into the lobules and forming a plexus within their peripheral part. This is shown by i results of post-mortem examinations in cases otportal congestion, and by the results of Chrzoi | czewsky's "natural injections" in animals whose hepatic artery has been tied: in both ca j the lobules are stained in their peripheral part (with blood or injection matter, as the case may 11 while their central part is pale. - From the plexus within the lobules arise the intralobular hep£: SejjOEttiC Veins [veins, already described with the sublobular & the larger hepatic veins. V. page X The minute intralobular veins appear to open at once into the sides of the adjacent sull hular veins, which latter have very thin walls, and are closely adherent to the lobules. I, larger hepatic veins run alone, and have no intralobular veins opening directly into them. Tlji walls are somewhat thicker, but they are still separated from the lobules by only a very thin laill of cellular tissue : when any of the hepatic veins are divided their mouths remain open. Capillary Plexus. | The capillary plexus of the liver is an exceedingly close one. Its vessels are large, (^J an inch), and the spaces between them do not exceed the diameter of one or two of the hepi cells. These vessels converge from the branches of distribution of the portal vein to the brancjl of origin of the hepatic veins, z.^., from the lobular branches of the portal vein to the intralobi f hepatic veins. They a»e not in immediate contact with the hepatic cells, but are separeii from them by a narrow space lined with flatttened cells, which space serves for the passagJ lymph. In the human subject, owing to the imperfect isolation of the lobules, the capilll| The Lymphatics [plexus appears continuous here & there from one lobule to anot j- Originate in the above mentioned spaces around the capillaries. A few lymphoid nod are connected with them. They take the course already described, page 314. Hepatic Cells. ^ The hepatic cells are arranged in a network radiating from the centre of the lobules ; periphery, the openings of which network are all but completely occupied by the capillaries. Their diameter raries from ^^fe^ to of an inch. They have no cell wall. - Y.p.