322 THE LARYNX-3rd Tablet. MUSCLES of the GLOTTIS — Are four on each side, and one in the middle line. CricO-ThyroideuS - Front & sides of cricoid cartilage. Lower border & inferior cornu of thyroid cartilage. - S. by superior laryi i geal nerve. I Tilts the thyroid cartilage forwards ^ and thus elongates 6^ tenses the vocal cords. Tliyro-ArytsenoideUS - Lower part of receding angle of thyroid cartilage, & posteri(, surface of crico-thyroid membrane. By two fasciculi into anterior surface of arytssnoid cartilage, and inl anterior or internal angle of its base. - S. by recurrent laryngeal nerve. Dratvs the aiytcenoid cartilage forwards^ and thus shortens and relaxes the voc cords; it also assists in compressing the sacculus laryngis. The former action is thj of its lower & stronger fasciculus, which lies parallel with, & on the outer sid of, the inferior or true vocal cord; the latter action is that of its upper & thinnt fasciculus, which lies on the outer side of the sacculus laryngis.. CricO-Arytsenoideus Lateralis - Side of upper border of cricoid cartilage. External or posterior angle of base of arytaenoid cartilage. - S. by reoui rent laryngeal nerve. Rotates the arytenoid cartilages so as to bring together their anterior or interm angles dr» the true vocal cords which are attached to them^ and thus constricts the glotti CricO-Arytsenoideus Posticus - Broad depression on side of posterior surface ( cricoid cartilage. External or posterior angle of base of arytaenoid cartilage. - S, by recui rent laryngeal nerve. Rotates the arytcenoid cartilages so as to separate their anterior or internal angi dr= the true vocal cords which are attached to them, and thus dilates the glottis. ArytssnoideuS - Posterior surface & outer border of both arytseuoid cartilages, pn senting superficial oblique & deep transverse fibres. - S. by both the superior i the inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerves. Brings together the two arytcenoid cartilages, and thus constricts the glottis, esp. daily in its posterior part. - Sometimes a small fasciculus, the Kerato-cricoidei . (Merkel), extends, below the preceding, from the criooid cartilage to the inferio cornu of the thyroid cartilage. MUSCLES of the EPIGLOTTIS — Are three in number. I Thyro-Epiglottideus or Depressor Epiglottidis - Inner surface of thethyroii cartilage externally to origin of thyro-arytaanoid. Margin of epiglottis & aryteeno-epiglottidean fold. Depresses the epiglottis, and assists in compressing the sacculus laryngis, Arytseno-Epiglottideus Inferior or Compressor Sacculi Laryngis - Ary tsenoid cartilage just above false vocal cord. Margin of epiglottis. Depresses the epiglottis, and assists in compressing the sacculus laryngis, Arytseno-Epiglottideus Superior - Apex of arytsBnoid cartilage. Arytaeno-epiglottidean fold. Constricts the superior aperture of the larynx during the second act of deglutition. The oblique fibres of the arytaenoideus are sometimes considered as belonging t(; the arytaeno-epiglottidei, which muscles would then decussate in the middl( line behind the horizontal fibres of the arytaenoideus, or arytaanoideus proper