182 CEREBRAL & CEREBELLAR VS. & VS. of the DIPLOli CEREBRAL VEINS — Have very thin c?at3 devoid of mascnlar tisme, aad no r»lTE Thev may be divided into snperScial & doe SUPERFICIAL — Mainly loagei in :::e sulci. They receive branches from the sn stance of the brain, and open into the sinuses of the dura mater. They are divid. int Superior - Seven or eight on each side. Pass forwards & in-svards to lon^itudin fissure, where they receive the internal cerebral veins from inner surface hemispheres, become invested by a tubular sheath from the arachno and open into the superior longitudinal sinuses, most of them towards : posterior part, and most of them from behind forwan Internal - Collect the blood from the inner flat surface of hemispheres, and ascend join the foregoing to open into the superior longitudinal sin' Anterior Inferior - Collect the blood from under stirface of frontal lobe, and op into cavernous sini Inferior Lateral - Collect the blood from under surface of temp.">ro-sphenoidal lol and open into the lateral i superior petrosal sim:sc Inferior Median - Crl^eot the Mood from interpeduncular space & from under s: face o: occipita: ".ote, and open into the straight sinus behind the venae (rale DEEP —Are two teriiiinal trz-k?, fbe vens Galeni, formed by junction behind anteri pillars of fornix of the choroid vein with the vena corporis stria Clioroid Vein - E^^s forwards & inwards in choroid plexus along outer mai^n velum interpositum, receiving branches from hippocampus major, fornix, corpr.s callosam, and joins with the vena corporis striati behind anteri pillar of fon Vena Corporis Striati - Commences in groove between oorpos striatum & op tnalamus, receiving numerous branches from both th^e parts, and joins wj the choroid vein behind anterior pillar of fom Vena Galeni - Backwards along middle line of velum interpositum; through trai verse fissure between tubercula quidrigemina & posterior extremitj splenium of corpus callosum; and opens into anterior extremity of strai: sinus. Receives a few of the superior cereb: ' -. .' CEREBELLAR VEINS — Occupy the surface of the organ, and are divided iaio; S aPerior - P-^s fcr- i-rd? i-jwards ever hemispheres .5: superior vermiform prwe and open, most of them into the straight sinus, some of them into the re Inferior - P -s? outwards, and open most of them into the lateral sinuses, some ii the superior petrosal sict* VEINS of the DIPLOE — Are seen, when the outer table of the skull is removed meaiis c: 'ze n'.e, to form an irregular network of venous canals hollowed out in i substance of the bones, and lined by a thin stratum of elastic tissue & a laver squamous epithelium. They present a few pouch-like dilatations or culs-de-«ie, a are mo5t developed in the aged. In early life, and as long ns the cranial bones; nnimited, each bone has its separate set of veins, but when the sutures have beco j ossified, the veins of one bone communicate with those of the adjoining ones. 1 j veins of the diplce may then be divided into four sets, as follows (Bresohajij Frontal - Descend in central part of frontal bone, and open into the supraorbitalt !| by an aperture in the supraorbital not I Anterior Temporal - Descend in lateral portion of frontal bone & in great wing \ sphenoid, and open into one of the deep temporal TUi I Posterior Temporal - Descend in parietal bone, and, at its posterior inferior I t _ _ open into the lateral sia || Occipital - Descend in occipital bone, and open, either into the occipital vein,«i I the occipital^w I The veins of the diplce have numerous communications with the meiiiiiSjl veins & sinuses of the dura mater, and with the veins of the perioraiw m