277 [NFEEIOR ABDOMINAL & PELVIC PLEXUSES. AORTIC or LUMBO-AORTIC PLEXUS Is situated upon sides & front of aorta between superior & inferior mesenteric arteries. Is derived mainly from the solar & renal plexuses and semilunar ganglia, but partly also from the lumbar ganglia. It often presents a few small ganglionic masses. It gives o£f the inferior mesenteric plexus, part of the spermatic, & filaments to the inferior vena cava, and is continued below into the hypogastric plexus. Inferior Mesenteric Plexus - Mainly derived from left side of the aortic. Ac- companies trunk & branches of inf. mesenteric artery, giving off plexuses: Left Colic, Sigmoid, & Superior Hemorrhoidal, ~ Which latter plexus joins with inferior hsemorrhoidal offset of pelvic plexus. HYPOGASTRIC PLEXUS Is a flattened plexiform mass which lies between the two common iliac arteries in front of last lumbar vertebra, & promontory of sacrum. Is derived from the aortic plexus & lumbar ganglia. Rarely presents any ganglia of its own. Inferiorly it divides into the two pelvic plexuses. PELVIC PLEXUSES (Sometimes called Inferior Hypogastric Plexuses). Two, situated on either side of rectum in the male, of rectum & vagina in female. Formed by bifurcation of hypogastric plexus, and by filaments from the two first sacral ganglia & four first sacral nerves, the third nerve supplying the greater number of these spinal fibres. Sends plexiform filaments to all the pelvic viscera along branches of internal iliao artery; the ovary, however, receiving but few filaments from this source. Are thus formed the following plexuses: Vesical - From front part of corresponding pelvic plexus. Consists of filaments rich in spinal nerve-fibres, & white in colour which are distributed to sides & base of bladder, and in the male, to vesiculse seminales & vasa deferentia the filaments to the vasa deferentia joining with spermatic plexus at comi mencement of cord. Inferior Hsemorrhoidal - From back part of pelvic plexus; - a few small filaments, which join with superior haemorrhoidal plexus. Uterine - Derived mainly from upper part of pelvic plexus before addition to the latter of anterior divisions of sacral nerves. Accompanies uterine artery along side of uterus, presenting a few small ganglia, and penetrates into sub- stance of the organ dividing into pencils of branches which anastomose but pMghtly with each other, and which are mainly distributed to the necl' <fe lower part of body; some filaments are prolonged upon the Fallo- pian tube & round ligament. - The lundus of the uterus frequently re- ceives a few twiga from the ovarian plexus, the ovary receiving at the same time a few filaments from the uterine. The enlargement of the nerves of the uterus in the gravid condition is due to the thickening of their neurilemma and to the persistence of the medullary sheath, which, in the unimpregnated state, disappears soon after the nerves enter the uterus (Farre, Cleland). Vaginal - From lower part of pelvic plexus. Contains a large proportion of spinal fibres, and supplies the mucous membrane, & the erectile tissue at anter- ior part of the canal. Prostatic - From lower part of pelvic plexus. Passes forwards between prostate & levator ani, and sends a few filaments to the vesiculse seminales. It is then prolonged into the cavernous plexus. Cavernous - Derived from foregoing, and receives also a few filaments from pudio nerve. Gives off: Small Cavernous Nerves - Several; perforate fibrous covering of penis near its root. Large Cavernous Nerve - Forwards on dorsum of penis, joining with dorsal nerve, and supplies anterior part of corpora cavernosa & spongiosum.