TIBIO-FIBULAR ARTICULATIONS j I Are three in number, the superior, middle, & inferior, the middle one consisting merely of t \ interosseous membra | j SUPERIOR TIBIO-FIBULAR ARTICULATION — Is an arthrodia. The artiou |' surfaces are small, oval, flat, oblique downwards & inwards. The synovial mc. bi-ane is sometimes continuous with that of the knee-joint. The ligaments a ; Anterior Superior Tibio-Fibular -Two or three strong flat bands extendi obliquely fr 'i Front of head of fibula to Front of outer tuberosity of tibia. \ Posterior Superior Tibio-Fibular - Single thick band extending obliquely fiji Back of head of fibula to | Back of outer tuberosity of tibia. | MIDDLE TIBIO-FIBULAR ARTICULATION. \ Interosseous Membrane - strong aponeurotic plane of fibres which pass obliqi jr downwards & outwards bet'w ja Contiguous borders of tibia fibula - It is broader above than below, |i presents superiorly a large aperture for the anterior tibial vessels, ii inferiorly, a smaller one for the anterior peroneal. It is continuous be y with the interosseous tibio-fibular ligam 3. INFERIOR TIBIO-FIBULAR ARTICULATION — Is an amphiarthrosis (Crir |. hier). Inferiorly, over an extent of about two lines, the two bones are flat, smoot |k covered with a layer of cartilage continuous with that of the ankle-joint j above is they are rough, and the tibial surface is concave and the fibular surface conv6 'i- The ligaments i I: Anterior Inferior Tibio-Fibular - Triangular flat band extending obliquely f'31 Front of external malleohts to L Front of lower part of tibia. 1 Posterior Inferior Tibio-Fibular - Narrow & thinner band from I Back of external malleolus to f Back of lower part of tibia - It is continuous inferiorly with the transverse 1!^ nil*. Interosseous - The chief bond of union. Formed of short strong fibres exten lg bet^ jn Contiguous rough su?faces of tibia 6^ fibula, \ Transverse - Long narrow band which projects posteriorly below the margins &ipo bones, and forms part of the articular surface for the astragalus; it tends m Back of external malleolus to Back of lower part of tibia a short distance from the internal malleolus.