243 HUDITORY N. or POETIO MOLLIS of the 7th PAIR. Arises from the floor of the ventricle^ its fibres of origin forming the linece transversa. Outwards behin'd the restiform body and forwards below the lower border of the pons^ re- ceiving filaments from the former and perhaps also from the latter. Is also said by I Foville to bo connected with the flocmlus and with the grey matter of the cerebelhun. Enters the internal auditory meatus with the facial nerve, which lies in a groove upon its surface, the portio intermedia of Wrisberg lying between the two. The two nerves aro • connected within the meatus by one or two filaments. Divides into two branches, the vestibular & the cochlear nerves. VESTIBULAR NERVE jl Divides into three branches, the subdivisions of which pass through the small openings at the upper & back part of the cul-de-sac at the bottom of tae interaal tory meatus, and are distributed to the utricule, the saccule & the ampullae opposite the masses of otoconia. COCHLEAR NERVE 1' Divides into numerous filaments, which pass through the small openings at the base of I the modiolus, and through the minute canals in its axis. These filaments bend outwards between the plates of the osseous zone of the lamina spiralis, forming j a plexus in which ganglion-cells are found; branches from this plexus perforate the lower edge of the osseous zone, forming radiating bundles ccanprisied partly within the osseous and partly within the membranous zone. The terminal fila- ments are believed to be connected with the spindle-shaped cells of the organ of Corti. (Vide Minute structures of the Cochlea), Note - From recent statements by Mr. Lockhart Clarke, the auditory " nerve would appear to have another set of fibres in addition to those above described. These fibres would arise from the recently discovered External Auditory Nucleus (V. notes on pages 213& 216) Y and they would pass outwards throicgh the substance of the restiform body to join externally to that body with the bundle of fibres V hitherto recognised.