314 STRUCTURE of the LIVER* Presents for examination: Serous Coat - Covers the whole of the surface of the liver except the points of attachment of the ligaments & the bottom of the fissures. It adheres firmly to the fibrous coat. Fibrous Coat - Covers the whole of the liver, hut is of difficult demonstration except at the points of attachment of the ligaments & at the bottom of the fissures. It is continuous at the transverse fissure with the capsule of Glisson, and, on the surface of the organ, with the delicate areolar tissue sepa- rating the lobules. Lobules - Small granular bodies from 1-lOth to l-20th of an inch in diameter, more or less rounded or polygonal, imperfectly isolated from each other in man by thin strata of cellular tissue & by small vessels. They are chistered around the sublobular branches of the hepatic veins ^ to one of which branches each lobule is appended by its intralobular vein. The Hepatic Cells, which form the lobules vary from I-IOOO//^ to 1-2000//^ of an inch in dia- meter j they are rounded or polygonal, and contain a micleus with a highly refracting nucleolus^ yellow particles of colouring matter, granules of glycogen & oil globules. They adhere to each other in raws circularly disposed round the intralobular vein. Portal Vein - its branches are at first contained in the portal canals, where they lie with the branches of the hepatic artery, bile ducts, deep lymphatics & nerves in the loose cellular tissue, which forms the capsule of Glisson. Rather large branches, the vaginal branches (Kiernan) are given off by the portal vein within the portal canals. From these vaginal branches, and from the vaginal plexus which they form, as well as directly from some of the larger branches of the portal vein, smaller interlobular branches are given off. These pass out between the lobules, giving off still smaller branches, the lobular branches, which latter penetrate into every lobule of the gland, and form a capillary plexus within its periphery. Hepatic Veins - Their radicles communicate within the lobules with the lobular branches of the portal vein. They converge towards the centre of the lobule, where they form a central vein, the intra- lobular vein. This intralobular vein issues from the base of the lobule forming the sublobular vein, to which the lobule, as aforesaid, is, so to speak, appended. The sublobular veins join to form the larger hepatic veins. Sile Ducts - Arise within the lobules in a plexiform network surrounding the hepatic cells (Kiernan), To this intralobular plexus succeeds an interlobular plexus, the larger branches of which coalesce and form vaginal branches, which lie in the portal canals with the other vessels & nerves. These vaginal branches coalesce in their turn, and give rise to two large trunks which join in the transverse fissure to form the hepatic duct. - The walls of the larger bile ducts present numerous lateral saccular dilatations formerly described as mucous glands, but now generally regarded aa minute reservoirs or gall-bladders, in which the stored-up bile undergoes perhaps some further elaboration. The epithelium of these Id^vgQv dixiGis is columnar; that of the smaller ducts is mous; that of the smallest, spheroidal. - A few aberrant bile-ducts not surrounded by liver tissue are found in the left lateral ligament of the liver and in the fibrous bands which sometimes re- place the pons hepaticus & the prolongation of the lobus Spigelii behind the inferior vena cava. Hepatic Artery - Accompanies the other vessels through the portal canals, and gives off correspon- ding vaginal & interlobular branches. These latter give off but few direct branches to the lobules, and are mainly distributed to the cellular tissue, the walls of the vessels & the investing membranes of the liver. They terminate however in a capillary plexus which communicates with the terminal branches of the vena portce ( Kiernan ) ; the blood of the hepatic artery is thus distributed indirectly to the glandular tissue. Lymphatics - Are superficial & deep. The deep lymphatics accompany the other vessels in the portal canals, enter the glands situated along the lesser curvature of the stomach, and end in the thoracic duct. Some of the superficial lymphatics take the same course, but most of them join the anterior mediastinal glands and end in the right lymphatic duct. Nerves - Are derived from the solar plexus & from the lef pneumogastrtc & right phrenic. They form the hepatic plexus, the branches of which accompany, most of them the hepatic artery, some the portal vein, *See also Appendix, page 314*'