81 I.BTIOULATIONS of the PELVIS. SACRO-ILIAC ARTICULATION or SYNCHONDROSIS — u an amphiarthrosis between contiguous surfaces of sacrum & ilium, the auricular por- tions of which surfaces are covered with plates of cartilage separated by a little soft pulpy tissue, and, in the pregnant female, by a small synovial cavity. The liga- ments are the anterior & posterior sacro-iliac ligaments, from which the greater & lesser sacro-sciatic ligaments cannot well be separated, I Ant. Sacro-Iliac Ligament - Formed of thin irregular fibres which connect the ■ Anterior siirjaces of the two bones. Post. Sacro-Iliac Ligament - Consists of several strong & thick fibrous bands from Posterior rough portion of lateral suface of sacrum to Inner surface of that portion of iliuin^ which projects behind sacrum. One superficial fasciculus termed the Oblique Sacro-Iliac Ligament - Extends from Posterior superior spine of ilium to Back of third or fourth piece of sacruju. Great or Post. Sacro-Sciatic Ligament - strong triangular band expanded at both ends and attached by its base to Posterior inferior spine or ilitwiy and posterior surface dr* margins of sacrum ^ coccyx, and by its apex to Inner margin of tuberosity, and inner margin of ascending ramus of ischium. Lesser or Ant. Sacro-Sciatic Ligament - Thinner triangular band attached by its base to Margins of sacrum ^ coccyx in front of foregoing, and by its apex to Spine of ischium. - It separates the greater & lesser sacro-sciatic foramina. PUBIC ARTICULATION or SYMPHYSIS PUBIS — is an amphiar. throsis. The two oval articular surfaces are covered with plates of cartilage adher- ing firmly to the bones by means of small nipple-like processes which fit into corres- ponding depressions of the osseous surfaces. These plates are joined together by an interarticular fibro-cartilage thicker in front than behind, and in the centre of which, at its upper & back part, is usually found a small synovial cavity. - The liga- ments are: Ant. Pubic Ligament - Thick stratum of superficial oblique «fe deep transverse fibres. Post. & Sup^ Pubic Ligaments - Consist only of a few scattered fibres. Inf. or Sub-Pubic Ligament-Strong fibrous arch attached to rami of pubes on either side. SACRO-COCCYGEAL ARTICULATION — similar to articulations between bodies of vertebrae generally. - Presents: Interarticular Pibro-Cartilage - Which sometimes contains a small synovial cavity. Ant. Sacro-Coccygeal Ligament - From Front op sacrum to Front of coccyx. Post. Sacro-Coccygeal Ligament - From Ma?gins of lower orifice of sacral canal to Back of coccyx. ARTICULATION of PELVIS with SPINE, or LUMBO-SACRAL or SACRO-VERTEBRAL ARTICULATION. Similar to articulations between vertebras genei ally, but has two additional ligaments, viz., Lumbo-Sacral or Sacro-Vertebral Ligament - Strong, triangular, fasciculus from. Lower and front part of transverse process of^th lumbar vertebra to Side of base of sacrum. Lumbo-Iliac or Ilio-Lumbar Ligament-From Tip of transverse process of hth lutnbar vertebra to • Back of crest of ilium. A.