VERTEBRAL ARTERY Arises from upper & back part of first portion of subclavian. Upwards & backwards to foramen in transverse process of 6th cervical vertebra, passing beh; vasculo-nervous bundle of the neck and more particularly behind inferior thyroid arter ; internal jugular vein, and then between scalenus anticus & longus C( j. Upwards through the series of foramina in the transverse processes as far as upper border of a ij with the vertebral vein and a plexus of the sympathetic, the artery lying between the -v ji which is in front, and the cervical nerves which emerge behind from the intervertel i foram; I. Upwards & outwards to, and then through, foramen in transverse process of atlas. | Backwards & inwards behind lateral mass in groove on posterior arch of atlas, lying in the tri j. gular space between the recti & obliqui muscles, and being crossed by the posterior bra i of the suboccipital nerve and covered by the comple: i Pierces posterior occipito-atloid ligament, and enters the skull through the foramen magnum ' Winds round medulla oblongata between hypoglossal nerve and anterior root of suboccipi ,. ascends obliquely between anterior surface of medulla oblongata & basilar process, ji joins its fellow opposite lower border of pons Varolii to form basilar tri BRANCHES — Are cervical & cranial. CERVICAL: Muscular - Several, small, to the deep muscles of the neck. j XiStterd/l Spinal - Through intervertebral foramina, and divide into: Ani. Branch - To posterior surface of bodies of vertebraB j FosL Branch - To roots of nerves, cord & its membranes. CRANIAL: Posterior Meningeal - Two or three, small, to dura mater of cerebellar fossi Posterior & Anterior Spinal - Arise respectively behind upper part of ' Ij and in front of med!», The two posterior descend behind the roots of the spinal nerves; The two anterior unite into a single trunk, which descends along mi e line of (1. Both join with, and are reinforced by, the numerous spinal branches der d from the vertebral, ascending cervical, inferior thyroid, the interco 1, lumbar, ilio-lumbar and lateral sacral; and are thus each of them i- tinned as small tortuous vessels, or rather as a series of inosculg g vessels, down to the extremity of the cord, where they resolve into t ;s to Cauda eq' % Posterior Inferior Cerebellar - Backwards round medulla between pne ^ gastric & spinal accessory nerves, and over restiform body to m€ in fissure or valley on under surface of cerebellum. Gives ofi" an offsi io tinder surface of cerebral hemisphere and twigs to choroid plexus ol ih vent: e. BASILAR ARTERY Formed by junction of the two vertebral arteries opposite lower border of pons Varolii, and exti to upper border of the si % BRANCHES: COLLATERAL: Transverse Arteries of the Pons - Directly outwards over pons. :One aci i- panics auditory nerve into internal auditory meatus, and becomes le auditory ar h Anterior Inferior Cerebellar-Along cms cerebelli to anterior part of u ir surface of cerebel i- Superior Cerebellar - Winds round crus cerebri with 4fch nerve to upper sui of cerebellum and gives twigs to velum interposi i- TERMINAL: Posterior Cerebral - Two. Vide arteries of base of brain. I