163 JBANCHES of the INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY-lst T. BRANCHES FROM ANTERIOR DIVISION. VISCERAL BRANCHES: Vesical-Two or three; but other twigs pass to bladder from middle hgemorrhoidal, uterine, vaginal, & obturator. Superior Vesical - Is that part of hypogastric artery which extends to side of ! bladder, and which remains pervious after birth. Gives off aj-tery of vas deferens, and the Middle Vesical, - Which is often wanting. Inferior Vesical - Usually arises in common with middle haemorrhoidal. To base of bladder, prostate, & vesiculae semiuales. IVEiddle Hsemorrlioidal - Joins with superior hsemorrhoidal branch of inferior mesenteric, and with inferior hsemorrhoidal branch of internal pudic. Uterine - Downwards to neck of uterus, and then upwards in a tortuous course along side of body between folds of broad ligament; communicates with ovarian. Vaginal - Descends upon vagina to neck of bladder & rectum. NON-VISCERAL BRANCHES: Obturator - Usually arises (2 cases out of 3) from anterior division or sometimes from posterior division of internal iliac. In one case in it arises from the epigastric, that is to say that its anastomotic branch with that artery is enormously increased in size while its proper root is proportionately dimin- ished. Sometimes both roots are nearly equally developed (1 case in 73). Occasionally the artery arises from termination of external iliac. In cases of abnormal origin from epigastric the obturator artery usually arises from near the root of the latter, and then descends into the pelvis close to the external iliac vein and on the outer side of the femoral ring. Some- times, however, it arises from the epigastric higher up, that is to say at a distance from the root of the latter; it then passes inwards above the femoral ring and descends into the pelvis on the inner side of that ring behind Gimberat's ligament. It is in this latter case only that the obturator artery is exposed to be wounded in the operation for strangulated femoral hernia. When it arises from the internal iliac it passes forwards along outer wall of pelvis below obturator nerve, giving off small iliac & vesical branches and a pubic branch which communicates on back of pubes with its fellow and with the epigastric. I Through upper part of obturator foramen, and divides into: Internal Br. - Eound inner margin of obturator foramen; supplies obturator & adductor muscles, pectineus & gracilis and anasto- ' moses with internal circumflex. External Br. - Round outer margin of obturator foramen to inter- val between gemellus inferior & quadratus femoris, sends an , j articular branch tohip-joint through cotyloid notch, and anasto- moses with external circumflex & sciatic arteries; supplies obtu- rator externus & the lower external rotator muscles. Sciatic - The largest of the two terminal branches of anterior division of internal iliac artery, and the largest branch of the artery after gluteal. Downwards in front of pyritormis & sacral plexus, lying a little behind & to outer side of internal pudic. Through great sacro-sciatic foramen below pyriformis and between great sciatic nerve & pudic vessels & nerve. With small sciatic nerve over gemelli, obturator internus & quadratus femoris and in front of gluteus maximus. Gives off branches: Muscular, Articular to hip-joint j Coccygeal, Inferior Gluteal; Comes Nervi Ischiadici - Long, slender; with, and subsequently within sheath of, great sciatic nerve to lower part of thigh. Fudic - Vide next Tablet.