THE MINUTE STRUCTURES of the COCHLEA Were described by Eeissner and by Corti in 1851, but they remained nearly unknown up to a comparatively recent date. The membranous zone of the lamina spiralis is novr known to be composed of two membranes, the membrana basilaris or basilar membrane, which bounds the scala tympaui, and the membrane of Corti. The membrane of Corti, mernbrana tectoria, ai'ises from the inner part of the limbus laminae spiralis or denticulate lamina of Todd and Bowman, which latter is a thick periosteal development, which covers the upper or vesti- bular surface of the osseous portion of the lamina spiralis in its outer fifth, and which presents numerous tooth-like processes. Between the denticulate lamina and the margin of the underlying bone is a groove, the sulcus spiralis, the lower edge of which it is that gives attachment to the basilar membrane. Both the Basilar membrane and the membrane of Corti are attached close together to the outer wall of the spiral canal, the ligamentum spirale (which is perhaps muscular in structure, Todd and Bowman) serving for the attach- ment of the former. Between the basilar membrane and the membrane of Corti is comprised a narrow canal, the scala media (Kolliker). Another membranous partition, the membrane of Eeissner, arising from the inner part of the limbus laminae spiralis becomes also attached to the outer wall of the spiral canal, and cuts off from the scala vestibuli a three-sided prismatic canal, the canalis cochleae. The canalis cochleae passes upwards into the cupola, where it ends in a blind pointed extremity, and downwards to near the vestibule, where it ends in the same manner ; a small duct, the canalis reuniens (Hensen) joins its vestibular end to the saccule, and renders its cavity continuous with that of the latter. The scala media contains the organ of Corti. This latter consists of rods and elongated cells which stand on the membrana basilaris on each side of an intervening space. The rods are arranged in two rows. They incline towards each other, and meet like the beams of a roof over the intervening space. Where they meet they are flattened, and form quadrilateral plates, which are directed outwards, those of the inner row overlying those of the outer, and both together presenting an appearance similar to that of the rows of keys of a piano. The cells are arranged vertically, or in a slightly oblique direction, on each side of the rods, and have stiff cilia projecting from their upper extremity. The inner set of cells, cells of Claudius, form a single line. Those of the outer set, pedunculated cells of Corti, are three deep ; a few spindle-shaped cells, cells of Deiters, are interposed between the latter. A very delicate membrane, the membrana reticularis (Kolliker), mainly formed of squamous epithelial cells, extends from the line of contact of the rods to the outer wall of the cochlear tube. It is perforated by the cilia of the cells of Corti. Its use is supposed to be to keep the cells and rods in their places. The remaining part of the basilar membrane is covered with hexagonal epithe- lial cells. Large epithelial cells also fill the sulcus spiralis. The free edge of the osseous zone is perforated, just above the attachment of the basilar membrane, by numerous small apertures for the passage of the ra.diating branches of the cochlear nerve, and is termed the habenula perforata. The terminal filaments of the nerves are probably connected with the spindle-shaped cells of the organ of Corti.