240 INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. The largest of the three divisions. Both sensory & motor, its two roots uniting imixieaiateij! after their exit from foramen ovale. I Divides a few lines below base of skull into: t ANTERIOR or SMALLER DIVISION — Piincipally motor. Divides into : Masseteric Br. - Outwards above external pterygoid muscle and through sigmoid notch to masseter. Gives off a twig to teniporo-maxillary articulation & some- times one to temporal muscle. Deep Temporajl Brs. - Two, anterior & posterior. Outwards above external ptery. goid^muscle and reflected upwards at pterygoid ridge to temporal muscle. Are sometimes joined, anterior one with buccal nerve, posterior one with masseteric. Buccal Br. - Pierces external pterygoid, and forwards on buccinator, giving filaments to temporal muscle, integument & mucous membrane. Pterygoid Brs. - Two, to internal & external pterygoid muscles. Branch to internal pterygoid gives off motor root to otic ganglion. Branch to external pterygoid is frequently derived from buccal.' POSTERIOR or LARGER DIVISION — Sensory with a few motor fibres. Divides into: Auriculo-temporal N. - Has generally two roots which embrace middle meningeal' artery. Backwards beneath external pterygoid & neck of condyle; Upwards with temporal artery between condyle & external ear under cover of' parotid gland, and divides into: Auricular Brs. - Inferior & superior, to outer surface of pinna, join. ing with great auricular. Temporal Bks. - Anterior & posterior; with brarches of temporal 1 artery to skin of temporal region & vertex.; Joins facial nerve behind neck of condyle u-ually by two branches; gives i off sensory root of otic ganglion and filaments to parotid gland & I temporo-maxillary articulation, i Gustatory or Lingual N. - Between the two pterygoid muscles, where it lies on inner side & in front of inferior dental nerve, and is joined by chorda tympanij Above deep portion of submaxillary gland & along side of tongue, crossing Whar- ton's duct. Supplies mucous membrane of mouth & gums, submucous glands, conical & fun- I giform papillge and mucous membrane of tongue, i Gives sensory branches to submaxillary ganglion, and anastomoses with hypo- glossal nerve on anterior margin of hyo-glossus & near tip of tongue. Inf. Dental N. - Between the two pterygoid muscles, where lies behind & on outer side of gustatory; Between ramus & internal lateral ligament of temporo-maxillary articulation to dental foramen, where gives off nerve to mylo-hyoid muscle. Along inferior dental canal, giving branches to molar & bicuspil teeth, & divi- i des at mental foramen into: Incisor Br. - Onwards in dental canal to canine & incisor teeth. Mental Br. — Divides beneath depressor anguli oris into numerous branches to muscles, skin & mucous membrane of lower lip. NERVE TO MYLO-HYOID - Along groove on inner surface of ramus to under surface of mylo-hyoid & anterior belly of digastric N. — All the terminal branches of the 5th nerve upon the face. join with facial nerve. i i