134 INTERIOR of the HEART-lst Tablet. RIGHT SIDE. Is largei* in it3 auricular portion, and has thinner walls than the left. AUBICLE — Divided into: Appendix Auriculae - Narrow indented pouch, which overlaps the arch of t, aorta, and presents on its inner surface the musculi pedinati, whi | extend somewhat into the aim j Sinus - The central cavity; presents :- Opening of the Superior Vena Cava - Somewhat smaller than that of \ inferior cava; situated at the upper & front part; looks dov' wards & forwards, and has near it \ Tubercle of Lower - Small eminence, scarcely visible in man, situated right wall of auricle between the two ven^ ca^ Opening of the Inferior Vena Cava - Somewhat larger than that of i superior cava; situated at the lower & back part near the septu looks upwards & inwards, and presents \ Eustachian Valve - Semilunar in form with concave free, and convex tached margins; situated below the opening of the inferior V€ cava between it & the auriculo-ventricular opening, and passes i wards & to the left to the anterior margin of the annulus ova Small in the adult. Contains a few muscular fibi Opening of the Coronary Sinus - Situated below the opening of the infer vena cava & the Eustachian valve. Presents; Coronary Valve or Valve of Thebeshis. Foramina Thebesii - Some of which are the openings of the venee cor minimse, while others are but small blind depressic AuRicuLO.Ventricular Opening - With the tricuspid valve (Vide below). Foramen Ovale - In the foetus. Situated at the lower & back part of sept above opening of inferior vena cava; replaced in adult by Fossa Ovalis - Oval depression surrounded by a prominent circular rim,' Annulus Ovalis^ - and which often presents a small valvular opening its upper pj VENTRICLE — Triangular in shape, and has much thinner walls than the left c Prolonged upwards & to the left into the Infundibuliim or Co arteriosus. Present; AUEICULQ.Ventricular Opening - Oval, broadest from side to side. Situa behind the centre of the sternum on a level with the 3rd costal c tilages, on the right side of the aortic & left auriculo-ventricr openings. Guarded by Tricuspid Valve - Presents three triangular segments, which are attacl superiorly to the margin of the auriculo-ventricular ring & laters to each other, and of which the left one is the largest. They formed by a central fibrous lamina attached superiorly to the rous ring of the opening and covered by a duplicature of the en cardium. Their under surface & borders give attachment to chordce tendir Opening of the Pulmonary Artery - Situated at the apex of the conus ai riosus opposite the upper border of the third costal cartilage of left side close to the sternum. Guarded by Se?7iilunar Valves - Three; formed of fibrous tissue surrounded by a plicature of the endocardium, and prese Convex margin - Attached to the fibrous ring of the orifice; Free ?nargin - Slightly concave, strengthened by a bundle of tendin fibres, presenting in the centre a fibro-cartilaginous nodule, corpus Arantii, and laterally two thin lunated portions, lumdcB. Above the valves are three small pouches, Sinuses of Valsalva. Columns Carney - Three sorts, which are attached respectively by one a by both extremities, by one extremity only, to the wall of the v tricle. The latter are Musculi Fapillares - Three or four 5 give origin to the Chordcs Tendinea \