140 THE ARCH of the AORTA. From upper part of left ventricle to left side of lower border of body of 4th dorsal vertebra (some authors say 3rd, some say 5th), describing a curve, the convexity of which is directed upwards & to the right. Is divided into: - ASCENDING PORTION — About two inches long. Upwards, forwards, & to the right from opposite centre of sternum on a level with lower border of 3rd costal cartilages to upper border of 2nd costal cartilage of right side close to sternum. Contained in pericardium together with trunk of pulmonary artery. - RELATIONS: In Front - Pulmonary artery, right auricular appendix, pericardium, loose areolar tissue, remains of thymus gland, sternum. Behind - Right pulmonary vessels, & root of right lung. To THE Right - Superior vena cava, right auricle. j To THE Left - Trunk of pulmonary artery. I TRANSVERSE PORTION — Backwards & to the left from upper border of 2&d| costal cartilage of right side close to sternum to left side of body of 3rd dorsal^; vertebra (some authors say 2nd, some say 4th). - RELATIONS- In Front - Left pneumogastric & phrenic nerves, cardiac branches of sympathetic, left lung & pleura,; Behind - Trachea, oesophagus, thoracic duct, left recurrent laryngeal nervOj great or deep cardiac plexus • Above - Left innominate vein, innominate, left common carotid, & left subclavian arteries 1 Below - Left bronchus, right pulmonary artery, left recurrent laryngeal nerve ; remains of ductus arteriosus DESCENDING PORTION — Along left side of 3rd & 4th to lower border of 4tl i dorsal vertebra (some authors say along left side of 2nd & 3rd to lower bor der of 3i d, some say along left side of 4th & 5th to lower border of 5th),wher( it becomes thoracic aorta. - RELATIONS In Front - Pleura, root of left lung. Behind - Body of 4th dorsal vertebra (some authors say of 3rd, some say of 5th) To the Right - (Esophagus, thoracic duct. To the Left - Left lung & pleura. The aorta is somewhat dilated just above its origin, where it pre sents externally three small bulgings corresponding to the sinuses c Valsalva; two of these bulgings are anterior, and one is posteriorj an from the two anterior ones the coronary arteries are seen to arise. Th most prominent part of the arch lies about J of an inch behind the pos terior surface of the sternum. The height to which the arch usuall rises in the chest is about 1 inch below the upper border of the sternuui BRANCHES - Left or Anterior, & Right or Posterior Coronary, Innominate, Left Common Carotidj Left Subclavian.