91 tNEE-JOINT-lst Tablet.^ I May be described as a double condyloid articulation with a superadded arthrodia. This view is supported by comparative anatomy, for in many mammalia the knee-joint consists of three distinct articulations having separate articular" surfaces, separate synovial membranes, & separate ligaments. In man the articular surface of the femur presents three distinct por- tions, the synovial cavity is partly divided into two by the ligamentum mucosum, and the arrangement of the crucial ligaments clearly suggests that they are to be considered as the adjacent lateral ligaments, internal & external, of the external & internal femoro-tibial joints. ARTICULAR SURFACES: Articular Surfaces of the Femur - Three in number, separated by two slightly depressed posteriorly converging lines, of which lines the one that bounds the patellar surface internally is continued backwards along the outer & front part of the inner condyle so as to cut off an additional narrow tract from the inner side of the intercondyloid notch. Patellae Surpace - Occupies front part of condyles, is trochlear in shape, broadest, highest & most prominent externally; it presents a slight prolongation backwards along inner side of intercondyloid notch, which prolongation it is that articulates during flexion of the knee-joint with the small facet on posterior aspect or inner border of patella (Lenoir, Goodsir). Tibial Surfaces - Cover the slightly flattened under surfaces & the posterior rounded surfaces of the condyles. - The tibial sui'face of the inner condyle is more elongated than that of the outer, and it describes anteriorly a curve of a semi-horse-shoe shape, the convexity of which curve is turned forwards & inwards. Articular Surfaces of the Tibia - Two, the two condyloid surfaces, slightly con- cave, separated by the spine & the rough depressions in front of & behind it. Int. Condyloid Surface - The longest, narrowest & deepest. Ext. Condyloid Surface - The shortest, broadest & shallowest. Articular Surface of the Patella - Divided by a vertical ridge into two lateral & slightly concave portions, of which the Outer Portion - Is the largest & deepest, while the Inner Portion - Is the smallest & shallowest, and is further diminished internally by a slightly marked ridge, which ridge cuts off a narrow marginal facet coming in contact, during flexion of the knee-joint, with the inner border of the intercondyloid notch (Lenoir, Goodsir). - In well marked bones the two principal portions of the articular surface are divided by two trans- verse ridges into three horizontal bands, which bands resi; in succession upcn the femoral trochlea during the movements of flexion & extension of the joint (Goodsir). N, — THE INTERAETICULAR FIBRO-CAETILAGES - (Vide Next Tablet) - May also be considered as forming part of the articular surfaces : - They in- crease the extent & depth of tibial sockets, whose form they also modify ia adaptation to the different curves of the several parts of the femoral con- dyles.