262 LATEKAL BBANCHES of the LUMBAK PLEXUS. ILIO-HYPOGASTRIC — From 1st lumbar. Emerge? from icpper part of outer border of Psoas. Crosses quadratus lumborum. Perforates transversalis, and divides between it & internal oblique into branches: - Iliac - Pierces internal & external oblique just above crest of ilium, and supplies skin of li gluteal region behind lateral cutaneous branch of twelfth dorsal nerve. '| Hypogastric - Forwards between internal oblique & transversalis, communicating with t ilio-inguinal. Pierces internal oblique & aponeurosis of external oblique a little above the external abdominal ring, and supplies skin of hypogaa. trio region. I ILIO-INGUINAL — From 1st lumbar; smaller than foregoing. Pierces psoas, and crosses quadratus lumborum immediately below ilio-hypogastric. Pierces transversalis, and communicates with hypogastric branch of ilio-hypogastrio between that muscle and the internal oblique, which it pierces a little further on, ii Through inguinal canal in front of spermatic cord; and supplies skin of upper k I inner part of thigh and of scrotum & penis, or of labium pudendi. : Is sometimes small, and then ends by joining the ilio-hypogastric near crest of ilium J in that case a branch of the ilio-hypogastrio takes the place of the ilio-inguinal. i{ GENITO-CRURAL — From 2nd lurnbar nerve, and by a few filaments from the Isc. i Descends obliquely through substance^ and afterwards on anterior surface of psoas^ and ii | divides into branches:- ; Genital - Over external iliac artery, and through inguinal canal behind spermatic cord, ; to cremaster muscle & scrotum j - in female behind round ligament to labium, j Cetjeal - Beneath Pouparts ligament on inner side of psoas. Pierces fascia lata on outer side of femoral artery, and suppl/as skin of upper and front part of thigh; communicates with middle cutaneous. EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS — From 2nd lumbar nerve, and, by a few filaments, from the 3rd. jj Pierces psoas muscle towards its middle and crosses iliacus. Passes beneath Poupart's ligament thro'igh notch below anterior superior spmeBI ilium, and divides into branchesapil Anterior - Pierces fascia lata about four inches below Poupart's ligament, and suppIiW li skin of anterior & outer aspects of thigh as low as knee. \ PosTERiOE - Supplies skin of outer & posterior aspect of thigh. i