28 SUPEKIOR MAXILLARY BONE - 1st Tablet, Forms the whole of npper jaw bj its union with its fellow. Assists in fonaing : _ I Roof of mouth, flcar & out^-r -wall ofno:e,fioor of orbit ; ' Zygomatk <^ :phirvj-7ruixillary fo::cB ; Spheno-maxillary & ptirygo-'r^mxillary fi::ure:. May be described as presenting a bodv and fotir processes, malar, nasal, alveolar k palate. BODY— Hollowed out to form Antrum of Highmore. - Presents : OUTER SURFACE — Convex. Presents from within outwards & backwards: Inn-i'j^ or niyrtifor7?i fo::a for depressor al» nasi, Canine foyMy large & deep for origin of levator anguli ons k compressor na at upper part of which fo.^sa. is i Infra-orlitalforamen for infra-orbital vessels & nerce; VertiTMl rifhe, which descends from malar process, and behind which is the Maxillary iuhero:ity, which is rough along its posterior border for articulati with the palate bone & sometimes v.-ith pterygoid process of sphenc INNER SURFACE — Divided into two unequal parts by palate process. PAET ABOVE PALATE PPOCESS - Presents from before backwards the Inferior turbinated cre:t, above and r.^,:o7r --hich are Twovnde antero-po'Jerior grovr.i-., v, ;_.cn form part of middle k infer meatuses, and t>. former of which is surmounted by ' Superior turbinated en:'., v. Lich. lies on inner surface of nasal process A deep grocrrje which is converted into nasal duct by articulation with chrymal & inferior turbinated bon' Aperture of Antruvi of Highmore very large in disarticulated bone diminished in articulated skull by ethmoid, lachrymal, infer turbinated & jjoAaxe bones, and jjresenting inferiorly a fisff into which is received the maxillary process of the palate bo A rough surface which articulates with palate bone and is divided in:o anterior & a posterior portion b; Vertical groove, which forms part of posterior palatine canal. PAET EELOW PALATE PPOCESS - Forms anterior part of roof of mouth. UPPER SURFACE — Forms greater part of Soor of orbit, and is bounded : Oa' Ikxee Side - By a thin edge which articulates from before he/:>v.-a with lachrymal bone, os planum & orbital process of pa^ b'. On Outer Sile - By a rounded margin which forms part of sphe: maxillary fissTi: IN Front - By lower part of circumference of orbit. - It presents behi Infra-orbital groove for infra-orbital vessels & nerve, which groove becomes c verted in front ii Infra-orbital canal; - and at its anterior & inner part a Depre:::ion for inferior oblique muscle. Antrum of Highmore or Maxillary Sinus - is a large cavity hollowed ouis body of the superior maxillary bo' Its walls correspond to the three surfaces of the body of the bone; they ; very thin, and contain the infra-orbital & ant post, dental can; Its aperture communicates with the middle meatus of the nasal fossae, anc much diminished in size, and generally divided into two by artir lation v.-ith ethmoid, lachrymal, inferior turbinated t palate bor Several lamirue of bone project into its cavity, as do also the roots of the & 2nd molar teeth, which sometimes perforate its flo