22 1^ THE SPHENOID BONE Is situated at front part of base of sicdll, and articulates with the 7 other cranial bones & witli Presents for examination : vomer & both malar & palate bones. BODY — Is cuboid, but presents only four free surfaces, the two lateral surfaces being continuousf with the wings & pterygoid processea. UPPER SURFACE — Presents from before backwards: Ethmoidal spine, which articulates with ethmoid; Smooth surface slightly eleyated in median line, and which supports olfactory nerves j Optic groove leading laterally to optic foramen j Olivary process ; Pituitary fossa or sella turcica bounded laterally & in front by middle clinoid processes j £)orsu?7i sella notched laterally for 6th pair of cranial nerves, and presenting posterioip clinoid processes at its superior angles. On each side of body is the | Cavernous groove curved like an italic .S" for internal carotid artery. ANTERIOR SURFACE — Presents in middle line the Sphenoidal crest, which articulates with perpendicular plate of ethmoid; on either side th Openings of the sphenoidal sinuses, which are partly closed in front by the Sphenoidal turbinated bones or bones of Berlin. - This surf, articulates laterally with OS planum of ethmoid, and inferiorly with orbital process of palate bone, UNDER SURFACE — Presents in middle line the /Nostrum, which is received between the alse ot the vomer, and is continuous ! anteriorly with sphenoidal crest; on each side of the rostrum is the Vaginal process, which passes inwards beneath, and articulates with, the alse of the vomer, and externally to which is the S Pterygo-palatine groove, which forms pterygo-palatine canal with sphenoidal I process of palate bone. POSTERIOR SURFACE — Articulates with basilar process of occipital bone, with which j GREATER WINGS - Present: ^^i^es at age of 18 or 20, SUPERIOR or CEREBRAL SURFACE — Forms part of middle fossa of base of j skull, and presents from before backwards at its inner part^" Foramen rotundum for superior maxillary nerve; Foramen ovale for inferior maxillary & small petrosal nerves & small meningeal artery^ on the inner side of which latter foramen is sometimes seen the J Foramen Vesalii for a small vein; Foramen spinosum for middle meningeal artery. EXTERNAL SURFACE — is divided by pterygoid ridge into: Superior part, which enters into formation of temporal fossa, and Inferior part, which assists in forming zygomatic fossa, and presents posteriorly Spine of sphenoid for internal lateral ligament of jaw & laxator tympani muscle. ANTERIOR or ORBITAL SURFACE — Quadrilateral; assists in forming outer wall of I orbit and sphenoidal & spheno-maxillary fissures, and articulates with frontal ; & malar bones. Presents a small spine for lower head of external rectus. CIRCUMFERENCE. ^ ^ ^ . ^ . From Back of Body to Spine - Forms anterior or outer margin of foramen lacerum medium, in front, and articulates, behind, with petrous portion of temporal b. Feom Spine to Tip - Articulates with squamous portion of temporal bone, being bevelled internally below, externally above. From Tip to Front of Body - Presents externally a broad triangular surface for ■■ frontal bone, and forms, internally, lower boundary of sphenoidal fissure, j LESSER WINGS or PROCESSES of INGRASSIAS — Long, thin, triangular: i UPPER SURFACE — Smooth, forms part of anterior fossa of base of skull; UNDER SURFACE — Forms back of roof of orbit and upper boundary of sphenoidal fissure, J which latter is bounded internally by body of sphenoid, and transmits 3rd, j 4th & 6th nerves, and ophthalmic nerve & vein. ANTERIOR BORDER — Articulates with frontal bone; POSTERIOR BORDER — Forms at its inner extremity the anterior clinoid process. INNER EXTREMITY — Presents two roots which bound optic foramen. PTERYGOID PROCESS — consists of two plates which bound pterygoid fossa, and are ' separated below by a triangular notch filled up by pterygoid process of palate bone. - Its ANTERIOR SURFACE — Forms posterior wall of spheno-maxillary fossa, and presents anterior orifice of vidian canal. EXTERNAL PTERYGOID PLATE — Broad, thin, inclined outwards. Forms inner & outer walls of zygomatic & pterygoid fossae respectively, and gives attachment to internal & external pterygoid muscles. INTERNAL PTERYGOID PLATE - Narrower & longer. Its Outer & inner sttrfaces - Form respectively inner boundary ot pterygoid tossa & outer boundary of posterior nares. At its apex it presents Hamular process for reflection of tendon of tensor palati- ftad at its base Scaphoid fossa for origin of that mnscle.