THE SMALL BONES of the PACE. NASAL BONES — Form bridge of nose. - Narrow & thick above, wide and thin below. Present; Outer Surface - Convex from side to side, concave from above downwards at upper part. 1 Presents several arterial grooves and a foramen for a small vein, -1 Inner Surface - inversely curved; presents a groove for external branch of nasal nerve,' | Superior - Narrow, thick, articulates with frontal; Inferior - Broad, thin, joined to lateral cartilage of nose; has a notch for nasal nerve j External - Articulates with nasal process of superior maxillary bone; Internal - Thick, articulates with its fellow; is prolonged backwards into a crest which articulates with nasal spine of frontal & perpendicular plate of ethmoid. LACHRYMAL BONES — Form front part of inner wall of orbit. Present i Outer Surface - Presents from before backwards: Groove, which forms part of nasal duct; Ridge, which gives attachment to tensor tarsi muscle j Smooth surface, which forms part of inner wall of orbit. Inner Surface - Presents a furrow corresponding to foregoing ridge; forms part in front \ of middle meatus, and articulates behind with ethmoid bone. Anterior, Superior, Posterior - Articulate respectively with nasal & internal angular processes of superior maxillary & frontal bones, and with os planum of ethmoid. Inferior - Articulates behind with orbital plate of superior maxillary, and, in front, is prolonged downwards into a pointed process, the hamulus lachryinahs, which arti- culates with lachrymal process of inferior turbinated bone. MALAR BONES — Articulate with temporal, frontal, sphenoid & superior maxillary bones, and form part of outer wall & floor of orbit, and of temporal & zygo- matic fossEe. Present: Outer Surface - Convex; presents a small malar foramen for malar branch of temporo- malar nerve, and gives attachment to the zygomatic muscles. Inner Surface - Articulates internally with superior maxillary bone by a rough trian- gular surface, and is concave externally, where forms part of temporal & zygo- matic foss8B and presents a foramen for temporal branch of temporo-malar nerve. Orbital Process- Proiects backwards forming part of outer wall & floor of orbit & of tem- poral fossa; articulates from above downwards with frontal, sphenoid & superior maxillary bones, and bounds spheno-maxillary fissure anteriorly. - On its inner surface it presents one or two temporo-malar foramina. Frontal Process - Thick, vertical, articulates with external angular process of frontal. Zygomatic Process - Long, horizontal, articulates with zygomatic process of temporal. Borders: Antero-Superior - Forms lower & outer part of circumference of orbit. Antero-Inferior - Articulates with superior maxillary bone. Postero-Superior & Postero-Inferior - Are continuous with superior and inferior margins of zygomatic process. INFERIOR TURBINATED BONES — Thin, and extend along whole length of outer wall of nasal fossa. Present: Outer concave & Inner convex Surfaces, marked by vascular grooves and canals, and the latter of which looks upwards & inwards. Upper Border - Which, from before backwards : Articulates with inferior turbinated crest of superior maxillary; Forms lachrymal process, which articulates with lachrymal & superior maxillary bones and completes nasal duct; Presents maxillary process, which curves downwards and outwards over lower edge of orifice of antrum of Highmore. Presents ethmoidal process, which ascends to join unciform process of ethmoid. Lower Border - is free and slightly thickened. "VOMER —Forms posterior part of nasal septum, and is frequently bent to one or other side. Presents: Lateral Surfaces - Present vascular & nervous furrows, and naso-palatine groove for naso-palatine nerve. Superior Border - Presents a deep groove bounded by two projecting alee, between which the rostrum of the sphenoid is received, and which are overlapped inferiorly by the vaginal processes of the same bone. Inferior Border - Articulates with ridge formed by palate plates of superior maxillary & palate bones. Anterior Border - is grooved above for articulation with perpendicular plate of eth- moid and joined below to cartilage of the septum. Posterior Border - Free, thicker above than below j separates posterior apertures of of the na»-«