48 i i I THE INNOMINATE BONE —3rd Tablet. | PXJBES — The anterior & inner part. Bounds obturator foramen above & in front, and pr [ sents body, horizontal ramus & descending rami gQjjy — Quadrilateral, flattened from before backwards & outwards, and presents • , Anteeior Sueface - Eough, slightly excavated, giving origin to the adduci longus immediately below the crest, and, lower down, to obtural: externus, adductors brevis & magnus, & upper part of gracil, PoSTEEiOR Surface - Smooth, convex from above downwards, concave from si to side, giving attachment to obturator internus, levator ani, a pubo-prostatic ligaments or anterior true ligaments of bladd Uppee Border - Presents from within outwards the Angle - In front of which the inner pillars of external abdominal ring ( cussate with each other (as they do also in front of symphysis Crest - To which are attached, anteriorly the conjoined tendon of \ internal oblique & transversalis, and posteriorly the rectus pyramidal Spine - For Poupart's ligament & outer pillar of external abdominal rh Commencement of ilio-pectineal line, for conjoined tendon, Gimbernat's li • ment & the triangular ligamt , Inner Border - Presents a rough oval facet, which forms part of symphysis, Outer Border - Thin, for obturator membrane. j Horizontal Ramus - is far from being horizontal, since it forms part of the briir f the true pelvis, which brim is inclined at an angle of about ' with the horizontal. Prese:;: Upppe Sueface - Presents from within outwards: ! Triangular surface for origin of pectineus, behind which surface is the ' Continuation of the ilio-pectineal line already mentioned; Ilio-pectineal emineyice, which supports brim of acetabulum, and gives atte • ment to psoas parvus when that muscle exi i. Undee Sueface - Presents a Groove oblique forwards & inwards for obturator vessels & ne 5, which groove is bounded internally 1 a Sharp margin forming part of circumference of obturator foramer PosTEBiOE Surface - For upper fibres of obturator internus j forms part of a J- rior boundary of true pe S. OuTEE Exteemity - Form:, dbout l-Sth of the acetabulum. Descending Ramus - Thin & flattened; passes downwards & outwards, and • lis with ascending ramus of ischium. Prese 3: Anterior Surface - Rough, for adductors brevis & magnus, obturator exte is _ „ & gra is. Posterior Surface - Smoother, for obturator internus. Inner Border - Rough, thick; everted, especially in the female; for gra is, crus penis or clitoridis, erector penis or clitoridis, compri or urethras, deep perinaeal fascia, & deep layer of the superficial fa i p. Outee Boeder - Thin & sharp, for obturator membrane.