161 XTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. Downwards & outwards along inner border of psoas, extending from bifurcation of oom- mon iliac opposite sacro-vertebral articulation (some Authors say opposite eacro-iliac synchondrosis) to beneath Poupart's lifyament midway between anterior superior spine of ilium & symphysis pubis, where it becomes femoral artery. Rather larsrer in the adult than internal iliac ; half the size in the foetus. RELATIONS:- In Front - Intestine, peritoneum, thin layer of fascia derived from the iliac; spermatic vessels & nerves, genital branch of genito- crural nerve, circumflex iliac vein, sometimes ureter near oriorin. Behind on Right Side - External iliac vein, which lies on inner side at femoral arch. On Inner Side - External iliac vein, & vas deferens. On Outer Side - Iliac fascia & psoas muscle. Ze/f External Iliac Vehi lies altogether on inner side of its artery. Right External Iliac Vein lies at first on inner side of its artery, and then behind it. BRANCHES: - Epigastric - Somewhat the larger. From front of external iliac a few lines above Poupart's ligament. Descends slightly to reach level of the ligament. Ascends obliquely upwards & inwards in subperitoneal areolar tissue, passing behind inguinal canal & along lower & inner boundaries of internal abdo- minal ring, and hooking round vas deferens in the male, round round ligament in the female. Pierces sheath of rectus between its middle & lower thirds, and ascends behind the muscle, dividing into muscular & cutaneous branches, which anasto- mose with lower intercostal?, lumbar, superior epigastric of internal mammary, & superficial epigastric of femoral. - Gives o£F branches : Ckemasteric - Small, descends upon spermatic cord and supplies cremaster; anastomoses with spermatic. Pubic - Usually email; descends behind pubes on inner side of femoral ring, and anastomoses with obturator. Sometimes greatly increased in size so as to form the origin, or one of the origins, of the obturator artery, which artery is then said to arise from the epigastric (Vide obturator artery). - The two epigastric veins unite into one trunk, which opens into the external iliac. Circumflex Iliac - Somewhat the smaller. From outer side of external iliac near Poupart's ligament. Upwards & outwards behind the ligament, and along anterior half of inner lip of crest of ilium, joining with gluteal. Pierces transversalis, runs backwards between it & the internal oblique, and joins with ilio-lumbar. Gives off numerous muscular branches; one, rather large, ascends from anterior superior spine of ilium, and joins with the epigastric & lumbar. - The two circumflex iliac veins unite into one trunk, which crosses the external iliac artery and opens into the corresponding v.