THE SACRUM I Consist* of five vertebraB blended together, sometimes of six, occasionally ot four. n Broad, thick, triangular, slightly curved, inclined downwards & backwards from pro7nonforyW\ broadest, least curved & most oblique in female. Presents: AIYTEiHIOH SURFACE — Concave from above downwards along whole or part of its extenB slightly concave from side to side. Presents from the middle line outwards: fl Bodies of the Five Vertebrse separated by Four Ridges. - The bodies arl flattened, and they diminish in size from above downwards. The ridges, whicM mark the original separations between them, lead laterally to thM Four Anterior Sacral Foramina. - These look forwards & outwards, diminish ii^l size from above downwards, and are prolonged externally into! Four Broad & Shallow Grooves, - Which grooves give attachment to the pyri.^ for mis muscle, as do also the \ Three Prominent Ridges, - Which separate them from each other. These grooves & these latter ridges lie upon a portion of the bone some- j times called the lateral mass^ which portion is formed by the blending of what j are sometimes called the anterior transverse pivcesses; these anterior transvern ji processes corresponding to the lumbar transverse processes & also to the external 1 tubercles of the inferior dorsal transverse processes. \ FOSTBRIOR SURFACE — Narrower, convex, uneven. Presents from the middle line out. * wards: - m Three or Four Tubercles - Corresponding to the three or four upper sacral spinous \ processes (the lower ones remaining undeveloped), which tubercles are usually i more or less blended into one prominent median ridge. | A Longitudinal Groove - Corresponding to the laminae. - These lamiuse are broad & j| well developed superiorly, but they are nearly undeveloped inferiorly, where < they merely assist in forming the lateral boundary of the inferior aperture oi i| the sacral canal \\ A Series of somewhat Indistinct Tubercles - Corresponding to the articular (j processes. The two lower tubercles blend together, and form, on either side oi i the inferior aperture of the sacral canal, the sacral cornua, which cornua articu. | late with the cornua of the coccyx; j Four Posterior Sacral Foramina - Smaller & less regular than the anterior ones. 1 A Series of Exp-inenceS - Which are sometimes called the posterior transverseprocesseSi <| and which correspond to the accessory tubercles on the back of the lumbar i transverse processes & to the inferior tubercles on the back of the few lower |! dorsal transverse processes. - Between these latter eminences & the median i tubercles is comprised the sacral g7'oove for origin of erector spinas, ij LATERAL SURFACES — Broad above, where they present anteriorly the I Auricular Surface - Ear-shaped, covered with cartilage for articulation with ilium, - ij and posteriorly Several Deep & Rough Impressions - For posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. - In- w feriorly the lateral surfaces become contracted into a ij; Thin Border - For sacro-sciatic ligaments & gluteus maximus muscle. This border, j! after presenting the prominent j Inferior Lateral Angle, - is depressed into a I Deep Notch - For anterior division of 5th sacral nerve, which notch is further deep-. ened by the vicinity of the transverse process of the first piece of the coccyx, and is even transformed sometimes into a complete foramen by the articulation i of this transverse process with the border of the sacrum, BASE — Broad & expanded, and looks upwards & forwards. Presents the body, pedicles, notches, «| laminae, foramen, spinous, anterior & posterior transverse, & articular processes of | the first sacral vertebra: - 11 Body - Forms part of promontory or sacro-vertebral angle. Foramen - Large, triangular; forms superior aperture of sacral canal. Anterior Transverse Processes - Expanded into a broad flat triangular surface ll continuous with iliac fossa. Posterior Transverse Processes - Form two pointed eminences on the outer side \ of the articular processes, i Articular Processes - Similar to the superior articular processes of the lumbar ver- vertebrse, but farther apart, j APEX — Curves downwards & forwards, and presents the small oval under surface of body of 1 last sacral vertebra, which under surface articulates with corresponding part of first i piece of coccyx, j SACRAL CANAL — Large & triangular above, small & flattened below, where its posterior « wall is rendered incomplete by the non-development of the spines & laminse of the one < or two last sacral vertebrae. Into it open laterally both the anterior & the posterior sacral foraminfti