47 [■HE UNNOMINATE B0NE-2ncl Tablet. ISCHIX71VE — The lower, posterior & thick part. Bounds obturator foramen below & behind, and presents body, tuberosity & ascending ramus, Body - Presents three surfaces & three borders: Outer Surface - Presents from above downwards: A little more than ^-^ths of the acetabulum comprising the greater part of the central non-articular depression; Lower part of rim of acetabulum with a portion of the cotyloid notch ; Deep groove for passage of tendon of obturator externus; Posterior part of circumference of obturator foramen for obturator exterms & adductor magnus. Inner Surface - Forms lower part of lateral boundary of true pelvis & posterior part of circumference of obturator foramen. It gives origin to obturator internus, presents two or three large vascular foramina, and is grooved inferiorly for passage of pudic vessels & nerve. Posterior Surface - Quadrilateral, smooth, broadest above, supports the pyri- formis, obturator internus, & gemelli. Anterior Border - Thia; for obturator membrane. Outer Border - Thick & short. Inner Border - The longest. Presents from above downwards: Lower part of great sacro-sciatic notch. — This notch is converted by lesser sacro-sciatic ligament into great sacro-sciatio foramen, which foramen transmits from above downwards: Gluteal vessels superior gluteal nerve; Pyriformis muscle ; Sciatic arteryi greater 6^ lesser sciatic nerves^ pudic vessels 6* nei-ve, nerve to obturator internus ; Spine of ischium - For lesser sacro-sciatic ligament, gemellus superior, coccygeus, & posterior fibres of levator ani. Lesser sacrO'Sciatic notch - Coated with fibro-cartilage, and converted by both sacro-sciatic ligaments into lesser sacro-sciatic foramen for obturator internus muscle, its nerve, and pudic vessels & nerve. Tuberosity - Corresponds to lower and, back part of body, and may be described aa presenting: Outer Lip - For gemellus inferior, quadratus femoris, & adductor magnus. Inner Lip - For transversus perinsei, crus penis or clitoridis, erector penis or cli- toridis, & anterior or falciform prolongation of great sacro-sciatio ligament. Interspace - Presents four rough surfaces: 2 wo Anterior or Inferior separated by a prominent ridge, the externali for the adductor magnus; the internal for the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Two Posterior or Superior separated by a rough line oblique downwards & outwards, the external (the most superior of the two), for semimembranosus; the internal (the most inferior of the two) for common tendon of semitendinosus & long head of biceps. Ascending Bamns - TMn & flattened; passes upwards & inwards, bounding obtura- tor foramen inferiorly, and joins with descending ramus of pubes. Presents; Outer Surface - Rough, for gracilis, obturator externus & adductor magnus. Inner Surface - Smoother, for obturator internus. Upper Border - Thin & sharp, for obturator membrane. Lower Border - Rough, thick; everted, especially in the female; for gracilis, crus penis or clitoridis, erector penis or clitoridis, transversus perinsei, deep perinseal fascia, & deep layer of the superficial fascia.