26 THE PALATE BONE Presents horizontal and vertical plates ^-ir am the point of junction of whicli two plates the pterygoid \ process-^TO^eciB backwards & outwards, -while from the upper border of the vertical plate project' upwards, the orbital process in front, and the sphenoidal process behind, j It articulates with its fellow, the superior maxilla, sphenoid, ethmoid, inferior turbinated & vomer. It assists in forming -principally, the floor & outer wall of the nasal fossa and the roof of the mouthy andv! -secondarily, the floor of the orbit, the pterygoid & spheno'maxillary fosscB, and the inner wall of th\ Antrum of Highmorii HORIZONTAL PLATE — Presents : Sup. or Nasal Suetace - Smooth and concave from side to side, forms posterior part of floor of > nasal fossa, j Inf. or Buccal Surface - Rough, marked posteriorly by a Transverse ridge for attachment of aponeurosis of tensor palati, and more externally by a Deep notch, which assists in forming the posterior palatine foramen. A little further back, on the under surface of the pterygoid process, are the i External & posterior small palatine foramina for external and posterior palatine nerves. Anterior Border - Serrated for articulation with palate process of superior maxilla. Posterior Border - Free for attachment of soft palate. Inner Border - Thick, surmounted by a ridge, which forms with its fellow a groove for vomer* presents posteriorly the ^ Postej'ior nasal spine for azygos uvulse. Li VERTICAL PLATE -Presents: l| Inner Surface - Presents the W\ Superior & middle turbinated crests, above, between & below which are seen | A narrow & two wider horizontal grooves, which form part respectively of the superior, middle ij & inferior meatuses. % Outer Surface - Presents towards its middle a Smooth surface, which forms the inner wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa, and is prolonged \ inferiorly into a | Vertical groove, which assists in forming the posterior palatine canal. In front of these is a \ Rough surface, which articulates with the superior maxilla; and further forwards still a i Nai-row smooth surface, which forms part of inner wall of antrum. Behind is a i Rough surface, which articulates above with the pterygoid process of the sphenoid, j below with the superior maxilla.j| Anterior Border - Thin, irregular, presents a projecting lamina, the Maxillary process, which assists in closing the lower part of the orifice of the antrum, and, \ forming a schindylesis, penetrates into a fissure of the superior maxilla \ -'-'-^ at the lower part of that orifice. ( Posterior Border - Articulates with the inner plate of the pterygoid process. Upper Border - Presents the Orbital process in front, the Sphenoidal process behind, which processes are separated by a deep Notch forming the greater part of the spheno-palatine foramen (which foramen is completed above by the sphenoidal turbinated bone). PTERYGOID PROCESS — Fits into the notch between the two plates of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone, and presents: Posterior Surface - Triangular, concave, forms part of pterygoid fossa. Two Lateral Surfaces - Bough, articulate with the two plates of the pterygoid process & with the superior maxilla. Under Surface - Forms part of the roof of the mouth, and presents the External & postej-ior small palatine foramina for external & posterior palatine nerves. ORBITAL PROCESS — Projects upwards & outwards from the anterior part of the upper border (| of the vertical plate, and presents: | Three articular Surfaces - Anterior,posterior & internal, - which join respectively with the superior si maxillary bone, the sphenoidal tu7'binated bone & the lateral mass of the ethmoid. I Two Non-articular Surfaces :- Supei'ior or Orbital - Forms posterior part of fioor of orbit; I External or Spheno-maxillary - Forms part of inner wall of spheno-maxillary fossa, and is ij separated from the foregoing by a Rounded border, which forms part of spheno-maxillary fissure. SPHENOIDAL PROCESS — Curves upwards, backwards & inwards, and presents: Upper Surface - Articulates with sphenoid «& sphenoidal turbinated bones, and assists in for- ming pterygo-palatine canal. ''\ Outer Surface - Articulates behind with pterygoid process, and forms in front that small part i of inner wall of spheno-maxillary fossa, which lies behind spheno-palat. foramen. j| "*««EK Surface - Concave, forms part of outer wall of nasal foasa.