12 THE RIBS. Twelve. Seven Sternal or True - Connected to the sternum by their costal cartil-, ' ages; these increase in length from above downwards. Five False or Asternal - Of which the three first are connected by their car. ; tilages to the cartilage of the rib above, while the two last, or I floating ribs, are entirely disconnected in front. The asternal or ^1 false ribs decrease in length from above downwards. The breadth of the ribs decreases from the 1st to the last; , so does also the width of the corresponding intercostal spaces. . The degree of obliquity of the ribs increases from the 1st | to the 9th, and decreases from the 9th to the 12th. It is \ most marked between the head & the posterior angle. , i The ribs are both curved & tzaisted upon themselves. The curve of the ribs is most marked in the neighbourhood of the posterior angle. The twist is such that the outer sur- face of the shaft looks slightly downwards behind & slightly I upwards in front, and that, if the lower border of the shaft j be placed upon a fiat horizontal surface from the antei'ior ' extremity of the bone to the posterior angle, the part of the . bone behind the angle, will be found to pass upwards & in- i wards, j COMMON CHARACTERS — a rib presents two extremities & a shaft. POSTERIOR EXTREMITY — Presents head, neck & tuberosity. Head - Presents: two oblique facets, a small superior one & a larger inferior one, which . facets articulate with the bodies of two adjoining vertebrae, , and are separated by a horizontal ridge, to which the interarticular ligament is attached. Neck - Flattened from before backwards, about an inch in length; presents: Antei'ior Surf - Smooth, continuous with inner surface of the shaft. Posterior Surf - Eough for interosseous costo-transverse ligament. Upper Border - Has a rough crest, for superior costo-transverse ligament. Lower Border - More or less rounded. Tuberosity - Most prominent in the upper ribs. Presents: Inferior Internal, or Articular Portion - Has a facet for the extremity of the tranverse process of the inferior of the two vertebrae with which the head is connected. Superior External^ or Non-articular Portion - Rough for external costo- transverse ligament. SHAFT — Thin & flat. Presents: Outer Surface - Convex, on which is found posteriorly the Angkf or Posterior Angle - A rough line oblique downwards & forwards, which gives attachment to the tendons of the sacro-lumbalis, . its accessory muscle, & the cervicalis ascendens, and which : separates a ; posterior rounded portion, giving attachment to the lougissimus dorsi, and increasing in length from the 2ud rib to the 10th, and an anterior flattened portion, smooth, looking slightly downwards behind & slightly upwards in front, which presents anteriorly the Anterior Angle - Similar to the posterior but more faintly marked. Inner Surface - Concave, looks slightly upwards behind & slightly down- wards in front, and presents inferiorly a ridge extending over the posterior two-thirds of the shaft, & most marked behind, which ridge gives attachment to the internal intercostal muscles, and forms the inner boundary of the Groove - For the intercostal vessels & nerves, which groove is deepest & most marked just in front of the angle. Upper Border - Rounded; gives attachment to both internal & external inter- costal muscles. Lower Border - Thin & sharp. Forms outer boundary, of foregoing groove, and gives attachment to corresponding external intercostal muscle. ANTERIOR EXTREMITY — Compressed from before backwards, presents a deep oval pitj studded with vascular foramina into which pit tho corresponding costal cartilage is received.