61 USCLES ATTACHED to BONES of PACE. The muscles attached to the SUPEEIOR MAXILLARY BONE — Are eight in number, and are attached as followa:- Orbicularis Palpebrarum - Upper part of nasal process. Levator Labii Superioris Alceque Nasi - Upper part of nasal process below foregoing. Levator Proprius Labii Superioris — Oater surface of body close to margin of orbit. Levator Anguli Oris or Miisculus Caninus - Canine fossa just below infraorbital foramen, Cojnpressor Nasi - Lower & inner part of canine fossa. Depressor Alcz iV^w -Myrtiform or incisor fossa. Buccinator - Outer surface of alveolar process corresponding to molar teeth. Lnferior Oblique - Depression on orbital plate close to lachrymal groove. INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE — Twelve in number, and are attached as followa Temporal - Apex, inner surface & anterior border of coronoid process down to its rooL Masseter - Angle, and outer surface of ramus & of coronoid process. Lnternal Pterygoid -Angle and inner surface of ramus as high as dental foramen. External Pterygoid - Depression on front of neck of condyle. Digastric - Eough depression on inner lip of lower border of body. Mylo-Hyoid - Whole length of raylo-hyoid ridge. Genio-Hyoid - Inferior genial tubercle. Genio-Hyo- Glosstis - Superior genial tubercle. Buccinator - Outer surface of alveolar process corresponding to molar teeth. Depressor Anguli Oris or Triangularis Oris - Ext. oblique line externally to mental foramen. Depressor Labii Lnferioris or Quadratus Menti - External oblique line between symphysis & mental foramen. Levator Labii lnferioris or Levator Menti - Incisor fossa PALATE BONE — Three in number, and are attached as follows: - Azygos Uvulce - Posterior nasal spine. Lnternal Pterygoid - Groove on posterior surface of pterygoid process. External Pterygoid - Front part of outer aspect of pterygoid process. MALAR BONE — Three in number, and are attached as follows: - Masseter (Superficial Portion) - Lower border of zygomatic process. Zygomaticus Minor - Lower & front part of outer surface. Zygo??taticus Major - Back part of outer surface. LACHRYMAL BONE - One, the Tensor Tarsi - Ridge & posterior part of outer surface.