184 VEINS of UPPER LIMB-lst Tablet. SUPERFICIAL VEINS - Are: Radial, , Ant. Post. Ulnars Mediant Median Cephalic, Median Basilic, Cephalic, Basilic. Hadia>l - Commences at outer side of arch on dorsum of hand. Receives branches from back of thumb & index finger, ascends along front of outer side of fore-arm, communicating with median, and joins at bend of elbow with median cephalic to form the cephalic. Anterior Ulnar - Commences on anterior aspect of wrist & inner side of palra of hand, ascends along front of inner side of fore-arm communicating with posterior ulnar & median, and, at bend of elbow, joins with posterior ulnar, & then with median basilic, to form the basilic. Posterior Ulnar - Commences at inner side of arch on dorsum of hand, receiving vena salvatella from little finger, ascends along back of inner side of forearm, and, at bend of elbow, joins with anterior ulnar, & then with median basilic, to form the basilic. IMedian - Commences in superficial structures of palm of hand, ascends along middle of front of fore-arm communicating with radial & aaterior ulnar, and, after re* ceiving a large branch from vens8 comites of brachial, divides at bend of elbow , into median cephalic & median basilic. IVEedian Cephalic - Usually the smaller. Ascends in groove betweea biceps & sup- inator longus, lying mainly in front of branches of anterior division of external cutaneous nerve, and joins with radial vein to form the cephalic. Median Basilic - Usually the larger. Ascends in groove between biceps & pronator radii teres, being more or less surrounded by branches of anterior division of internal cutaneous nerve, and lying in front of brachial artery, from which it is separated by bicipital or semilunar fascia. Cephalic - Somewhat smaller than basilic. Ascends in groove along outer border of biceps and then in interspace between pectoralis major & deltoid, in which latter situation it is accompanied by humeral or descending branch of acromio-thoracic artery, and ends in axillary vein between coracoid process & clavicle, its opening being guarded by a pair of valves. It communicates sometimes with external jugular or subclavian by a small branch which ascends in front of clavicle. Sasilic - Somewhat larger than cephalic. Ascends in groove along inner border of biceps, pierces deep fascia witii internal cutaneous nerve a little below middle of arm, and ends in one of the brachial veins or in the axillary. N.—Numerous varieties are obsei-ved in the disposition of the veins of the bend of the elbow: the median vein with both its terminal branches may be en- tirely wanting, or, the vein itself being wanting, its two terminal branches may be supplied either by the radial or the anterior ulnar.