21 382* THE STEUGTURE of the LENS. The drawings of Babuchin & Arnold, reproduced on pages 625, 764 & 765 of the Eighth Edition of " Quain's Anatomy," will facilitate the comprehension of the following additional details from Prof. Babuchin's article on the lens in Strieker's Handbook of Histology, from which article our most recent information on the subject is to a great extent derived. The lens may ba regarded as consisting of a thin anterior wall composed of a single layer of cells, and of a thick posterior wall composed of cells elongated into fibres, between which •walls is comprised a cavity, real in the foetus, virtual in the adult. Both cells & fibres are perfectly transparent, in fact invisible, when fresh, but after a time, or after treatment by reagents, they become cloudy, and they then show their contour & their nucleus. The central cells of the anterior wall are flattened; the peripheral ones become cubical, or elongated perpendicularly to the surface. Farther outwards the cells become still taller, and also oblique & conical, their inner ends inclining forwards towards the anterior surface of the lens, and their broad bases being turned backwards towards the posterior surface. Still farther outwards the cells become longer still, and their direction still more oblique,' their anterior extremities curving farther & farther forwards to meet more & more central cells of the anterior surface. Thus the transition from the cells of the anterior wall to the fibres of which the posterior wall is composed, is effected by the simple elongation of the former. The mode of formation of the posterior wall is as follows: - Flattened fibres unite to form lamellae, which, covering one another concentrically like the coats of an onion, first increase in size from the point of transition between the walls towards the axis of the lens, and then diminish towards the central part or nucleus, attaining their smallest diameter at, or a little behind, the centre of the organ. The peripheral or equatorial, or transitional, lamellae are curved outwards, that is to say, they present their convexity towards the axis of the lens. They are slender in the centre & expanded at their extremities, these extremities resting, the anterior one on the flattened cells of the anterior wall of the lense-cavity, the posterior one on the posterior lamella of the capsule. As we pass from the periphery of the lens towards its axis, we find the several lamelljB first becoming straight, and then curving inwards, and at the same time becoming longer:- Each successive lamella projects beyond the superjacent ones, and, both in front & behind, the lamellae overlap each other like the tiles of a roof. All the lamellae above described extend from the cells on the anterior aspect of the lens, in front, to the posterior lamella of the capsule, behind. Beneath them, i.e., nearer the nucleus, is, however, a more central set of lamellae, whose anterior and- posterior extremities terminate within the lens in a more or less complex manner. In some fishes & amphibia, these latter lamellE© meet in the axis of the lens, both in front & behind. In the torpedo, the posterior ex- tremities meet in the axis, while the anterior ones form a raphe, which appears in the shape of a transverse line. In some mammals, such as the rabbit, the hare, etc., both the anterior & the postei-ior extremities of the lamellae terminate as above, the anterior & posterior raphes, however, crossing each other at right angles. In the human foetus, the anterior and posterior raphes become stars with three rays, usually described (V. page 359) as the "planes of separation" between the " segments." In the adult, the rays multiply, and the stars become more complex. - As to the course of the individual fibres of the " segments," the statements on page 359 are confirmed. The lense-fibres are more or less flattened six-sided prisms with slightly serrated edges. They fit so exactly one to the other, that, except in the planes of separation between the segments, where the extremities of the fibres meet, there is but little cementing substance between them. In the early condition, each fibre presents an oval nucleus which is first situated a little behind, and then, as the fibre elongates, a little in front of the middle of its length. In the adult, these nuclei disappear, except towards the periphery of the lens, where they remain to form the nuclear zonCi or, as it is sometimes called, Meyer^s zone. The lense-fibres have probably no distinct limiting membrane or sheath, though their outer parts are denser and less easily acted upon by reagents than the more central ones. This is also the case with the more central parts of the length of the fibres as compared with their extremities. In the adult, the lens & its capsule receive no vessels: - The capsulo-pupillary membranet and the branch of the arteria centralis retinae which reaches it through the canal of Stilling, disappear a little before birth, ?.(?., as soon as the aqueous chamber begins to expand. The capsule of the lens is apparently structureless. It is thinnest opposite the posterior pole, and thiokest where it blends with the suspensory ligament or zonula of Zinn. For further details the reader is referred to " Quain's Anatomy," and to the translation of Prof. Babuchin's article by Mr. Henry Power.