264 I OBTUBATOR NERVE Arises mainly from 3rd & 4th lumbar nerve?, but receives also a fasciculus from the 2ad (Sappey, Hirschfeldfc, & Quain's diagram of lumbar plexus). Descends through inner fibres of psoas, and emerges from inner border of that muscle opposite brim of pelvis. Along outer wall of palvis above obturator vessels to upper part of obturator foramen; enters thigh, and divides into: Anterior Brancll - The smaller. Descends in front of adductor brevis, and behind pec- tineus & adductor longus, to femoral artery, upon which it is distributed below the latter muscle. Gives ofi" branches: - Articular - To hip-joint; arises near obturator foramen. Muscular - To gracilis & adductor longus, and sometimes to pectineus & adductor brevis; Anastomotic to Internal Cutaneous & Internal Saphenous Nerves - Arises opposite lower border of adductor longus, and forms with the foregoing nerves a plexiform network beneath deep fascia of thigh. Sometimes this anterior branch of the obturator nerve, and its communicating oflFset to the internal cutaneous & internal saphenous nerves, are larger than usual. The latter then give^ off cutaneous filaments to the skin ol { the lower & inner part of the thigh, and descends along the posterior bor- i der of the sartorius to the inner side of the knee-joint; here it pierces the deep fascia, communicates again with the internal saphenous nerve (which is then smaller than usual), and supplies the skin of the inner side of the leg as low as its middle. Posterior Brancll - The larger. Pierces upper fibres of obturator externus, and dea-1 cends behind adductor brevis in front of adductor magaus; gives ofi j branches:-| Muscular - To obturator externus & adductor magnus (and to adductor brevis, i when the latter is not supplied by the anterior branch of the nerve). Artfcular - Through opening in lotver part of adductor magnus, and upon the pop-: liteal artery to back of knee-joint, i ACCESSORY OBTURATOR NERVE j Arises (when it exists) either directly from obturator nerve, or, by separate filaments, from the 2nd, 3rd, & 4th lumbar, Descends along inner side of psoas, crosses front of pubes, gets behind pectineus,. and divides into branches to pectineus & hip-joint. Communicates with anterior branch of obtursvtor nerve; the communicating branch is some- times large, and is then prolonged as a cutaneous nerve to the thigl & leg (Gray)