106 i MUSCLES of the FACE—4th Tablet. MUSCLES of the MOUTH. Orbicularis Oris - Consists of three portions : Labial or Marginal Portion - Continued uninterruptedly from one lip to the othei round the commissures of the mouth. Facial Portion - Central fibres decussate with, the others are directly continnoun with, fibres of buccinator. Accessory Portion - Consists for the upper lip of four fasciculi, the musculi acces. sorii orbicularis superiores, arising from superior maxilla opposite incisor teeth & from septum of the nose; and for lower lip, of two fasciculi, the musculi acces-i sorii orbicularis inferiores, from inferior maxilla near the canine teeth. Inserted into this muscle and into the integument covering it from the middle of the upper lip to the middle of the lower lip, are the following muscles (the last excepted), which all blend more or less with each other : - Levator Labii Superioris Alseque Nasi - Upper part of nasal process of superioi maxilla. Levator Proprius Labii Superioris - Superior maxillary & malar bones close k margin of orbit. Levator Anguli Oris or Musculus Caninus - Canine fossa just below infra orbital foramen. Zygomaticus Minor - Lower and front part of malar bone. Zygomaticus Major - Malar bone near zygomatic suture. Buccinator - Outer surface of alveolar processes of superior & inferior maxillae correa ponding to the molar teeth, and from pterygo-maxillary ligament (which lattei is a fibrous band extending from apex of internal pterygoid plate to posterioj extremity of mylo-hyoid iddge of lower jaw, and which gives attachment poster iorly to superior constrictor of pharynx). jl Its fibres are continuous with those of facial portion of orbicularis oris, thd; middle ones decussating, the superior & inferior ones passing directly into corresl! ponding lip. Risorius - Fascia over parotid gland & masseter. - Is often described a3 the upper par|' of platysma myoides. Depressor Anguli Oris or Triangularis Oris - External oblique line of lower jaTji externally to mental foramen. Depressor Labii Inferioris or Quadra tus Menti - External oblique line of loweii jaw between symphysis & mental foramen. Levator Labii Inferioris or Levator Menti - incisor fossa of lower jaw, Intecrument of chin close to median line.