LONG EXTENSOR MUSCLES of the BACK-lst Tablet. The ilio-costalis or sacro-lumbalis & the longisaimns dorsi arise by a common origiii the erector spina i ERECTOR SPINjE — Posterior fifth of crest of ilium; and, by a broad thick tendoi^ which covers and conceals the muscular fibres, from spines of sacrum, thi spinous processes of the lumbar & three lower dorsal vertebraa, the posterio: i superior & posterior inferior iliac spines, and the series of eminences on bad, of sacrum, which eminences represent the transverse processes of the vertebrsej Divides opposite last rib into ilio-costalis or sacro-lumbalis & longissi mus dorsi. ILIO-COSTALIS, or SACRO-LUMBALIS ~ is the outer and smaller divisior of the foregoing, and is inserted into the Angles of the six or seven lower ribs. • |; Musculus Accessorius ad Ilio-costalem, or ad Sacro-lumbalem - Angler of the six lower ribs internally to tendons of ilio-costalis. Angles of the six upppr ribs. Cervicalis Ascendens - Angles of the four or five upper ribs. j Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of 4th, 5th, & 6th cervical'' vertebrse. j LONGISSIMUS DORSI — is the inner & largest division of the erector spinaeij Has two series of insertions both in the lumbar & the dorsal regions: Inner Series of Insertions - Tubercles (maramillary) on back of superior articu i lar processes of the lumbar vertebrae, & tips of the transverse processes of aLj the dorsal vertebrae. I Outer Series of Insertions - Posterior surfaces of transverse processes of thfi lumbar vertebrae, & nine or ten lower ribs internally to their angles. : Transversalis Colli - Tips of transverse processes of the four or five highest doraallj vertebrae. ; Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of the five lower cervical! vertebrae. Trachelo-Mastoid - Transverse process of the five upper dorsal vertebrae, anc: articular processes of the three or four lower cervical. Posterior border of mastoid process beneath splenius & sterno-mastoid.! SPINALIS DORSI — Spinous processes of the first two lumbar and last two dorsal vertebra;. Spinous process of from four to eight of the middle & upper dorsa] vertebrae. - Is intimately connected with the longissimus dorsi, of which it maybe considered as the innermost part (Cruveilhier); the lopgisaimus i dorsi then having three series of insertions, middle, outer, & inner. All the foregoing muscles are supplied by the external branchec of the posterior divisions of the cervical, dorsal & lumbar neryefl. MULTIFIDUS SPINiE - (Vide next Tablet.)