17 THE FKONTAL BONE Articulates witli sphenoid & ethmoid, and witli both parietal, nasal, superior maxillary, lachry. mal & malar. Divided into vertical or frontal, and horizontal or orbito-nasal portions. VERTICAL OR FRONTAL PORTION —Presents: Ext. Surface - Presents in median line: Median suture, usually obliterated a few years after birth, and below which is the Nasal e77iinence; - and laterally from above downwards : Frontal eminence ; Superciliary ridge caused by projection of frontal sinuses, broad inwardly where it joins the nasal eminence; Supraorbital arch, presenting at its inner third the Supraorbital notch or foramen, for supraorbital vessels & nerve, - ' and which arch terminates externally and internally in the external & internal angular processes. EXT. ANaULAR PROCESS - Thick & strong; articulates with malar bone, and presents externally a part of the Temporal ridge. INT. ANGULAR PROCESS - Thinner j articulates with lachrymal bone. and bounds the Nasal notch, which articulates with nasal bones & nasal pro- cesses of superior maxilla, and presents below the Nasal spine. Int. Surface - Concave. Presents in median line and from below upwards : Foramen coecum (completed behind by ethmoid) for small vein to longitudinal sinus and a process of falx cerebri,' Frontal crest, which is continued into Groove for longitudinal sinus & falx cerebri; — and laterally Cerebral impressions and Grooves for branches of anterior & middle meningeal arteries. HORIZONTAL OR ORBITO-NASAL PORTION — Consists of the two orbital plates separated by the ethmoidal notch. ORBITAL PLATES - Present: Under Surface - Concave, on which are seen externally the Lachrymal fossa for lachrymal gland, and internally the Fovea trochlearis for pulley of superior oblique. Upper Surface - Convex, forms part of anterior fossa of base of skull, and presents well marked cerebral impressions. ETHMOIDAL NOTCH - is filled up by horizontal plate of ethmoid. - The under surface of its margin presents: Several half-cells, which complete & close the ethmoidal cells, and Two grooves, which form part of Anterior ethmoidal canal for nasal n. & ant. ethmoidal vessels, and of Posterior ethmoidal canal for posterior ethmoidal vessels. In front of the ethmoidal notch is the Nasal spine, which articulates with nasal bones & perpendicular plate of the ethmoid and forms part of roof of nose, and on the sides of which are the Openings of the frontal sinuses The circumference of the bone is thick in the vertical or frontal portion, where it is serrated for articulation with the parietals, and is bevelled at the expense of the inner table, above, of the outer table, below. In the horizontal portion the circumference is thin & serrated for articulation with the lesser wing of the sphenoid. At the junction of the two portions of the bone the circumference presents a large triangular rough surface for articulation with the greater wing of the sphenoid. A.