110 MUSCLES of UPPEB LIMB-lst Tablet. ANTERIOR THORACIC REGION. Pectoralis Major - Anterior surface of inner half of clavicle; corresponding half of front of sternum; cartilages of all the true ribs except 1st or 7th or both ; apon- eurosis of external oblique. Anterior or outer edge of bicipital groove of humerus. - S. by internal & external anterior thoracic nerves. Pectoralis Minor - Outer surface & upper border of the 3rd 4th & 5th ribs near their extremities. . Inner border of coracoid process of scapula. - S. by internal anterior thoracic nerve. Subclavius - Cartilage of first rib in front of rhomboid ligament. Groove on under surface of middle third of clavicle. - S. by one of the supra-clavicular branches of brachial plexus. LATERAL THORACIC REGION. Serratus Magnus - By ^li^e digitations from outer surface & upper border of eight i' upper ribs (the 2nd rib having two digitations). Whole length of anterior lip of posterior border of scapula, the two upper digitations being inserted into triangular smooth surface on anterior aspect of superior angle, the three middle digitations into posterior border between superior ! & inferior angles, and the four lower digitations into anterior aspect of inferior angle. - S. by posterior or long thoracic nerve or external respiratory nerve of Sir C. Bell. MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. Deltoid - Upper surface & anterior border of outer half of clavicle; upper surface & outer border of acromion; whole length of lower lip of posterior border of spine of scapula. Rough triangular prominence a little above middle of outer surface of shaft of humerus. - S. by circumflex nerve. Subscapularis - inner two-thirds of subscapular fossa ; tendinous laminae attached to i; ridges of said fossa; aponeurosis which separates it from teres major. Into lesser tuberosity of humerus and by fleshy fibres into the neck for a short distance lower down. - S. by the two upper subscapular nerves from posterior cord of brachial plexus. Supraspinatus - inner two-thirds of supraspinous fossa & fascia which covers it. Highest of the three facets on greater tuberosity of humerus. - S. by j suprascapular nerve. Infraspinatus - inner two-thirds of infraspinous fossa & ridges on its surface; fasciaa i; which separate it from the teres major & minor. Middle facet on greater tuberosity of humerus. - S. by suprascapular nerve. , Teres Minor - Upper two-thirds of dorsal aspect of axillary border of scapula; intermuscular septa which separate it from infraspinatus & teres major. Lowest facet on greater tuberosity of humerus and by fleshy flbres into the neck for a short distance lower down - S. by a branch of circumflex »erve. Teres Major-Dorsal aspect of inferior angle of scapula; intermuscular septa which i separate it from infraspinatus & teres minor. Inner or posterior edge of bicipital groove of humerus. - S. by a branch from lower subscapular nerve.