ARTICULATIONS of the RIBS Are four arthrodiae, the costo-vertebral, costo-transverse, chondro-sternal, & chondro-chondral, of whic i arthrodiae the first is a double one, while the two last ones are frequently more or le! imperfect & deficient in synovial membranes. - To the above articulations must be added tl chondro-cosial articulations, which may be considered as diminutive synarthrose COSTO-VERTEBRAL ARTICULATIONS — Are double arthrodiae between the head of the ribs & the bodies of two adjoinin;^ vertebras; the 1st, 11th, & 12fch are, howevei- single arthrodise, since the corresponding ribs articulate with one vertebra only. The ligaments an Capsular - Thin; surrounds articular surfaces. Ant. Costo-Vertebral - Forms three fasciculi from Front of head of rib to - Bodies ofvertebrtz above below and to intervertebral disc. Interarticular Costo-Vertebral - From Crest on head of rib to - Intervertebral disc^ dividing articular cavity into two. In the 1st, 11th, & 12th costo-vertebral articulations there is no intera ticular ligament, and the anterior ligament is attached only to the vert bra abov COSTO-TRANSVERSE ARTICULATIONS — Are ten arthrodial articulations betwei the tubercles of the ten upper ribs & the transverse processes of the lower of the ty vertebrae, with which the head of the corresponding rib articulates. -The ligaments art Post, or Ext, Costo-Transverse - From Apex of transverse process to - Rough outer part of tubercle of rib. Middle or Interosseous Costo-Transverse - Formed of short fibres from Front of transverse process \'0 - Back of neck of rib. Ant., Sup., or Long Costo-Transverse - From Jjpper border of neck of rib to - Lower border of transverse process of the vertebra abo\ The 11th & 12th ribs are connected to the corresponding transver process by a thin & ill-developed middle or interosseous ligament, and to t! transverse process of the vertebra above by a well developed anterior superior ligajnent (Oruveilhier). - There is no anterior or superior ligame connected with the 1st ri CHONDRO-STERNAL ARTICULATIONS — Connect the extremities of the seven fii costal cartilages to the margins of the sternum. The first chondro-sternal articul tion may be considered as a synarthrosis j it presents no synovial membrane. The f others are arthrodiae; these arthrodise are all single arthrodiae (Gray), except t second & third, which latter are divided into two by interarticular ligaments; in eai, life, however, according to Quain, they are all of them, usually, double arthrod excepting the 7th. In advanced age all the synovial membranes disappear, and t cartilages join with the sternum. - The ligaments ai j Capsular - Thin, blended with anterior & posterior ligaments. j Ant. Chondro-Sternal - The thickest, radiates from ij Front of costal cartilage - Front of sternum. Post. Chondro-Sternal - Thinner, radiates similarly from Back of costal cartilage \>o - Back of sternum. Chondro-Xiphoid - Thin band from I Front of xiphoid appendix to - Front of 1th ^ sometimes ofQth cartilages. i Interarticular - From Crest of costal cartilage to - Point of junction of primitive segments of sternum. -Exii; in the 2nd articulation only (Gray), in which it is attached to the cart age between manubrium & gladiolus; usually exists, in early life, in all t joints except the 1st & the 7th (Quai. CHONDRO-CHONDRAL ARTICULATIONS — Are four or five imperfect arthroc which join the costal cartilages from the 5th or 6th to the 10th; the synovial me branes & the articular facets are often wanting, however, in the first articulation a in the one or two last. - The ligaments a: Capsular - Thin, strengthened by a few fibres termed Intercostal, - Which latter extend from one cartilage to the other. j| CHONDRO-COSTAL ARTICULATIONS — Outer extremity of each costal cartih ' is received into an oval depression on end of corresponding rib, and the rib & the c tilage are bound together by the blending of the periosteum & perichondrii