351 STEUCTURE of the UTERUS. Presents three coats, serous, nmsoular, mnoous, and vessels & nerves. SEIROUS COAT — Covers fundus, posterior surface, & upper three-fourths of the anterior. MUSCULAR COAT — The chief bulk of the organ, thickeafc opposite middle of body & fundus, thinnest opposite Fallopian tubes; dense, firm, & greyish in the unirnjjregnated state, softer, & more highly coloured during gestation. Consists of plain muscular fibres abundantly intermixed, especially near the surface, with fibro-areolar tissue, and dis- posed in three layers as follows; Outer Layer - Thin stratum of transverse fibres, which, on both surfaces of the organ, converge towards its superior angles, and are from thence prolonged upon the round ligament, the Fallopian tube, & the ligament of the ovary, and into the broad & posterior ligaments of uterus. Middle Layer - Thick irregular stratum of fibres crossing each other in all directions. Inner Layer - Forms complete circular rings round the two infundibuliform prolonga- tions of the cavity of the uterus towards the Fallopian tubes, rings individ- ually incomplete, but completed by those of the opposite side, round the body of the organ, and finally a transverse band round the cervix. MUCOUS COAT Thin, smooth, firmly adherent, covered with columnar ciliated epithe- lium, except in lower part of cervix near os externum, where the epithelium becomes squamous; presents numerous follicles, which, in the body of the organ, are long tubular glands arranged perpendicularly to the surface, and of which, among the rugaa of the cervix, a few are frequently seen to be closed & distended by their own secretion, forming the so-called ovules Nabothi, VESSELS & NERVES — Arteries. Are the uterine, & twigs from the ovarian; they anastomose frequently, and are very tortuous in their course. - Veins. Accompany the arteries, and are very large, especially in pregnancy, when, in the substance of the uterus, they are transformed into real sinuses. - Lymphatics. Those of the cervix open into the sacral & internal iliac glands; those of the fundus open into the lumbar elands. - Nerves. From the inferior hypogastric & ovarian plexuses, and from the * 3rd & 4th sacral.