259 ULNAB, INT. CUTANEOUS, & LESSER INT. CUTAN- EOUS NERVES. ULNAE NERVE. From inner cord of brachial plexus in common with inner head of median, internal cutane- ous & lesser internal cutaneous nerves. - Lies at first on inner side of 3rd part of axillary & upper part of brachial arteries. Pierces internal intermuscular septum with inferior profunda, and descends in groove between olecranon & internal condyle. Enters fore-arm between the two heads of flexor carpi ulnaris. Descends on flexor profundus, being covered in upper part of fore-arm by flexor carpi ulnaris, lying superficially in lower part between tendon of latter muscle & inner- most tendons of flexor sublimis digitorum. - Ulnar artery lies on outer side of nerve, and is distant from it in upper part of fore-arm. Crosses anterior annular ligament a little behind artery & on outer side of pisiform bone, and divides into two TERMINAL BRANCHES: Superficial - To palmaris brevis, integument & fingers on inner side of hand, joining with median. ]5eep - Between abductor & flexor brevis minimi digiti, and beneath flexor tendons with deep palmar arch. Supplies muscles of little finger, interossei, the two inner lumbricales, adductor pollicis & inner head of flexor brevis. LATERAL BRANCHES: None in upper-arm. In fore-arm : Articular to Elbow Joint - Several, small, arise behind elbow. Muscular - To flexor carpi ulnaris & inner half of flexor profundus. Palmar Cutaneous - Arises a little below middle of fore-arm. With ulnar artery to integument of front of wrist & palm of hand, joining with palmar cuta- neous branch of median & frequently with internal cutaneous. Dorsal Cutaneous-Large, arises a little above wrist. Winds inwards beneath tendon of flexor carpi ulnaris, and supplies integument & IJ fingers on inner side of back of hand, joining with radial. Articular to the Wrist. INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE. I From inner cord of brachial plexus in common with inner head of median, ulnar & lesser I internal cutaneous nerves, j Along inner side of brachial artery in front of lesser internal cutaneous, giving off a cuta- j neous filament to integument over biceps. ! Pierces deep fascia with basilic vein, and divides into: Anterior Branch - in front of, or sometimes behind, median basilic vein to in- tegument of front of inner side of fore-arm as low as wrist, frequently joining with palmar cutaneous branch of ulnar. Posterior Branch - Over internal condyle to integument of back of inner side of fore-arm to near wrist, joining with lesser internal cutaneous & dorsal I cutaneous branch of ulnar. LESSER INTERNAL CUTANEOUS N. or N. of WRISBERG. From inner cord of brachial plexus in common with inner head of median, ulnar & internal jj cutaneous nerves. f Along inner side of axillary vein & brachial artery & behind internal cutaneous nerve to integument of back of lower third of arm, joining with intercosto-humeral & posterior branch of internal cutaneous, j Its size & communications vary considerably. Frequently intercosto-humeral nerve la large, and takes the place of nerve of Wrisberg, joining brachial plexus by a small filament only, or not at all.