84 THE SHOULDER-JOINT Is an enarthrodial articulation, thougli not a typical one; for the glenoid cavity of the scapula is in comparison ynth the head of the humerus, remarkably small & shallow, and there is'little more than a mere apposition between the two bones. Considerable mobility « thus provided for. Displacement is, on the other hand, prevented to a great extent by the presence of the acromion & coracoid processes & coraco-acromial ligament. - Th( articular cartilage is thickest in the centre, on the head of the humerus, thickest at th( periphery, on the glenoid cavity LIGAMENTS: Capsular - From JVeci of scapula round marghi of glenoid cavity to Anafoffiical neck of hmneriis^ extending farthest down humerus along its inner aspect. | This capsule is thicker above than below. It is strengthened by the coraci humeral ligament externally, by the tendons of the supra- & infraspinatus & ter minor behind, and by that of the subscapularis in froD It has two, sometimes three openings, through which the synovial men brane is prolonged upon the tendons of the subscapularis & biceps, and sometimi ' upon that of the infraspinatus. The tendon of the long head of the biceps pe forates the lower part of the capsule, and becomes surrounded, within the joir by a complete sheath of synovial membrar It is remarkably loose, and, when the muscles are cut, it admits of the bon being separated more than an inch. The bones are therefore kept in appositic less by the ligaments themselves than by muscular action «fc atmospheric pressui CoraCO-humeral, or Accessory - strong flat band intimately blended with the capsu and extending obliquely frc Root ^ outer boj-der of coracoid pvcess to Front of great tuberosity of hm?ierus. Glenoid - Would be better described as an extension of the glenoid cavity than as a lif ment, for, unlike the cotyloid ligament of the hip-joint, it does not assist ; keeping the bones together. It is a fibro-cartilaginous ring triangular on sectic its thickest portion is attached to the circumference of the glenoid cavity, and sharp edge is free. It is continuous above with the tendon of the long head oft' biceps, by the bifurcation of which it is partly form( SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE — Is prolonged through the above mentioned openings in 1; capsii Upon the tendott of the biceps^ in the shape of a complete sheath, which allows the tend to traverse the articular cavity without being contained there: Upon the tendon of the subscapularis in the shape of a pouch of variable size comprif between the tendon & the subscapular fossa ; and sometin Upon the tendon of the infraspinatus in a similar manner; an independent bursa exi ing at other times between the muscle & the infraspinous fossa. - .. independent bursa exists between the upper part of the capsule the coraco-acromial ligament & delto VASCULAR & NERVE SUPPLY — From the circumflex & supra-scapular vessels & ner^ MOVEMENTS — The shoulder joint is the freest of all the joints of the body, and admits ' movement in every direction. The acromion & coracoid processes & the cora acromial ligament prevent displacement upwards of the head of the burner and limit, unless the scapula be displaced, the elevation of the arm to about i horizontal positi .