THE INNOMINATE BONE —1st Tablet. Large irregular flat bone, constricted towards its middle, and expanded above & j below; so twisted upon itself that its superior expansion is directed inwards poa- [ teriorly & outwards anteriorly, while its inferior expansion is curved inwards ia ; front as far as the middle line, i Consists up to the 13th or 14th year of three distinct portions, the ilium, ischium & , pubes, which portions, though they subsequently unite, are usually described sepa- ] rately ILIUM — The superior expanded portion. Presents: Outer Surface or Dorsum - Convex in front, where it looks downwards & out-1 ' wards, concave behind, where it looks downwards, outwards &' backwards. Presents the jl T^ree Curved Lines, superior^ middle^ inferior^ which commence respect- ively two inches in front of the posterior extremity of the crest,;'!) an inch & a half behind its anterior extremity, & at the upper part of the anterior inferior spinous process, and which converge, the two first towards the upper part, & the third towards the middle | of the great sacro-sciatic notch, i Above, and between these lines are seen the Surfaces of origin of the glutei maximus, medius 6^ minimus ; \ Groove (sometimes a ridge), for reflected tendon of rectus. - Below this are thai Upper part of rim of acetabulum ; Triangidar segment of the acetabulum forming nearly 2-5ths of that cavity, which 2-5ths include the greater part of the articular surface. Inner Surface - Presents in front, behind, & below respectively: Internal Iliac Fossa or Venter - Bounded below by the ilio-pectineal line. and presenting inferiorly a nutrient foramen. Sacro-iliac Articular Surface - Which is divided into an Inferior or Auricular Portion - Covered with cartilage, smooth though un- even, and a Superior Rough Portion - For posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. Portion of Inner Surface of True Pelvis - Corresponding to upper part ol acetabulum. Upper Border or Crest - Convex from before backwards, curved like an italic / concave externally behind, where it is thickest, convex externally in front, where it is also very thick, divided into: Outer lip for latissimus dorsi, obliquus externus, tensor va- ginae femoris & fascia lata. Inner lip for erector spinsB, quadratus luraborum & trans- versalis; Interspace for internal oblique. Anterior Border - Long, concave, nearly vertical; presents from above downwards: Anterior superior spine for Poupart's ligament, sartorius, tensor vaginas, femoris & iliacus; Notch for lower fibres of sartorius, and exit of external cutaneous nerve; Anterior inferior spine for straight tendon of rectus ; Broad shallow groove for exit of psoas & iliacas. Posterior Border — Shorter, more horizontal. Presents: Posterior superior spine for erector spinae & oblique srcro-iliac ligament; Slight notch ; Posterior inferior spine for part of great sacro-siatic ligament j Upper part of great sacro-sciatic notch.