148 ANTERIOR BRANCHES of the EXTERNAL CAROTID. i SUP. THYROID — Arises from front of external carotid close to its origin beneath thin anterior margin of stemo-mastoid, and is quite superficial when this mnsole is dissected from its sheath, for the latter then retracts and exposes the carotid vessels & their branches. ; Tortuous course upwards & forwards, and then downwards & forwards beneath omo- & | sterno-hyoid & -thyroid to anterior surface of thyroid body. Gives off brs: Hyoid - Small; along lower border of hyoid bone beneath thyro-hyoid, and joina with its fellow. Stemo-Mastoid or Superficial Descending - Descends to middle of stemo-mastoid, crossing carotid vessels. Sup. Laryngeal - "With superior laryngeal nerve to interior of larynx through outer part of thyro-hyoid membrane. Crico-Thyroid - Small j crosses crico-thyroid membrane and joins with its fellow. LINGUAL — Arises a little below hyoid bone beneath thin anterior margin of sterno-mastoid. Upwards & forwards upon middle constrictor to great cornu of hyoid bone. Horizontally forwards above great cornu beneath hyo-glossus, digastric & stylo-hyoid. Upwards on genio-hyo-glossus. Forwards with gustatory nerve on under surface of lingualis inferior, and then beneath' mucous membrane to tip of tongue under name of ranine. - Gives off brs :i Hyoid - Small J along upper border of hyoid bone and joins with its fellow, Dorsalis Linguae - A-Scends on genio..hyo-glossus to dorsum of tongue, epi. glottis, soft palate & tonsil Sublingual - Forwards between mylo-hyoid & mucous membrane to sublingual gland Ranine - The terminal branch j joins with its fellow at tip of tongue. Pjj\,CI AL — Arises above preceding beneath thin anterior margin of sterno-mastoid. Forwards & upwards beneath posterior belly of digastric & stylo-hyoid & submaxillary gld Crosses jaw bone in front of masseter. Forwards and upwards to angle of mouth npon buccinator & beneath platysma. Upwards beneath zygomatici and upon levator anguli oris and the levators of the lip I' ala of the nose to inner canthus, where becomes angular artery and joini with ophthalmic Is very tortuous in its course. Facial vein lies behind it, and is less tortuous. Gives of branches Inferior or Ascending Palatine - Dips beneath ramus of jaw. Ascendi between stylo-glossus & -pharyngeus and then upon superior constric tor in front of ascending pharyngeal, and supplies tonsil & soft palate Tonsillar - Ascends upon and perforates sup. constrictor to tonsil & root of tongue Submaxillary - Three or four, to submaxillary gland & surrounding muscles. Submental - Forwards on under surface of mylo-hyoid, and between it an( digastric to symphysis, where ascends upon chin Inf. Labial - Forwards beneath depressor anguli oris, below following artery t( tissues of lower lip Inf. Coronary - Forwards beneath depressor anguli oris, and tortuous cours( through substance of orbicularis and between it & mucous membrane anastomosing with its fellow Sup. Coronary - Larger and more tortuous; similar course along free edge o upper lip, giving twigs to ala and artery of septum to septum of nose Lateralis Nasi - To ala and dorsum of nose. Angular - To inner canthus, supplying lachrymal sac and anastomosing wit! nasal branch of ophthalmic All these branches anastomose freely with each other, with those of the oppa site side, and with the mental, transverse facial, infra-orbital, ophthal inic, sublingual, posterior superior or descending palatine and ascending pharyngeal arteries