95 KNEE-JOINT —5th Tablet. MOVEMENTS - Are 1. " Antcro-posterior combined with a slight amount of rotation of the tibia, inwards in flexion, outwards in extension. 2. - Independent rotatory movements. ANTERO-POSTERIOR MOVEMENTS: 1. The tibia glides backwards & forwards upon tho femoral condyles, rotating slightly inwards in flexion, outwards in extension, the semilunar fibro-cartilages at the same time receding towards the centre, or spreading out towards the peri- phery of the tibial sockets, in adaptation of the size & curve of these sockets to the greater or less convexity of the several portions of the femoral condyles. -It is towards the anterior & posterior extremities of the tibial sockets that tho semi- lunar fibro-cartilages are most movable, and the external fibro-cartilago is the most movable of the two. S. The patella moves in a plane oblique downwards & outwards. In Extreme Flexion 1. The tibial sockets lie in contact with the posterior rounded portion of the femoral condyles, and their concavity is increased & their area dimin- ished by the recession of the semilunar fibro-cariilages towards the centre of the joint. 2. The patella lies on the outer side of the joint. The upper part of its artic- ular surface (or the upper of the three horizontal bands into which, in well marked bones, this articular surface is divided) rests upon the lower part of the patellar surface of the femur; its narrow marginal facet rests upon the inner border of the intercondyloid notch. As the Leg is Brought Forwards 1. The tibial sockets glide forwards, Jiist slozvly 6^ both at the same rate, over the posterior rounded portion of the condyles (over which posterior rounded portion a very slight displacement of the tibial sockets corresponds to a considerable angular movement of the leg), then tnore rapidly, and the inter- val tibial socket more rapidly than the otitcr one, over the inferior flattened portion of the condyles, the tibia rotating slightly outwards. - The semilu- nar fibro-cartilages spread out at the same time towards the periphery of the tibial sockets, both diminishing their concavity and increasing their area. 2. The patella passes upwards & inwards in front of the joint, and the middle part of its articular surface (or the second of the three bands into which, in well marked bones, this articular surface is divided) comes in contact with, and ascends upon, the femoral trochlea. In Complete Extension. 1. The tibial sockets reach the anterior limits of the tibial portion of the femoral condyles ; the semilunar fibro-cartilages still further spread out towards the periplierv of the joint. 2. The patella ascends almost entirely above the femoral trochlea, the lower part only of its posterior surface (or the lower only of the three bands into which, in well marked bones, that surface is divided) still resting upon the femoral articular surface. The bone lies prominently theretore at the upper & inner part of the joint; it is freely movable from side to side when the extensor muscles arerelaxed; its apex is directed downwards «fe outwards. The ligamentiun patella: is stretched in the flexed, and relaxed in the ex- tended position ot tiie joint (if the extensor muscles aie not in a state of con- traction). The lateral k the posterior ligaments are stretclied in the extended, and relaxed in the flexed position. Tiie crucial ligaments are lelaxed in all tho intermediate positions; they only come into play, the anterior one in nearly complete extension, the posterior one in nearly complote flexion. INDEPENDENT ROTATORY MOVEMENTS — Tako placo only in the semi- flexed position ot tho limb, when (Vide above) all tho li^^aments are relaxed. Kotation inwards is produced by the popliteus, and is bounded by tho iuterlockinj; of the crucial ligaments & by the separate aciion of tlie anterior one. Kotation outwards is produced by the biceps, and is bounded by the action of tho lateral ligaments, ot which the inner one is first put on the stretch.