377^ Outer Molecular Layer. Is a thin granular stratum very similar in appearance to the inner molecular layer. Three kinds of elements are made out, at least in the horse, as entering into its structure. There is a close network of exceedingly fine connective tissue fibrils similar to those which enter into the structure of the inner molecular layer; there are the branched & granular cells, each with a large clear nuclec lated nucleus, from which the above fibres are derived; and, finally, there are fine varicose nerve- fibrils probably derived from the outer prolongations of the bipolar nerve-cells of the inner nuclear layer. Outer Nuclear Layer. Consists of vertical fibres, or bundles of fibres, which traverse its entire thickness, and in the course of each of which is found an oval nucleated body termed an "outer granule." Both fibres & granules are of two kinds. There are the rod- & the cone-fibres, which are continuous superiorly, the former with the rods, the latter with the cones of the columnar layer; and the rod- & the cone- granules, situated, the former in the course of the rod-fibres, the latter in the course of the cone- fibres. As, in the greater part of the colamnar layer, the rods are much more numerous than the cones, so, in the greater part of the outer nuclear layer, are the rod-fibres much more numerous than the cone-fibres. They are also much more delicate, and marked by minute varicosities, which the cone-fibres do not present. Internally, they appear to terminate upon the outer molecular layer in a varicosity somewhat larger than the others, and from which exquisitely fine fibrils radiate into this outer molecular layer. The cone-fibres are much thicker, and less numerous. They are continuous externally with the pear-shaped enlargement of a cone. They terminate internally in a large expanded & pyramidal extremity, or base, which rests upon the outer molecular layer, and from which exquisitely fine fibrils radiate into the substance of this layer. While the rod-fibres are apparently structureless, a delicate striation, or fibrillation, is sometimes visible on the cone-fibres. The rod-granules are ovoid enlargements which may be situated in any part of the course of the rod-fibres. They are occupied by a very large nucleus devoid of nucleolus, but which exhibits a remarkable cross-striped appearance : - The highly refracting substance of this nucleus is divided into three relatively dark transverse bands by two clearer & less refracting ones; sometimes there are but two dark bands & one clearer one. The cone-granules are pyriform enlargements usually situated in the upper or peripheral part of the course of the cone-fibres, close to the so-called membrana limitans externa. Their larger end is turned outwards, and is directly continuous with the base of the corresponding cone; or there is at most but a short thick trunk uniting them. Their narrow end is turned inwards, and continued into a cone-fibre. The cone-granules are larger than the rod-granules, but they present no transverse striation. It should be added that the real difference between the two kinds of granules is probably not so great as would appear at first sight. As regards the transverse striation of the rod-granules, it is considered by Krause to be a post-mortem phenomenon due to the partition of the nucleus. And, as regards the superficial position of the cone-granules in the outer nuclear layei*, it may immediately be stated that it does not prevail everywhere : - At the yellow spot, where there are only cones in the columnar layer and only cone-fibres & cone-granules in the outer nuclear layer, and where these structures are therefore more closely packed than elsewhere, the cone-granules are arranged in several strata separated from the bases of the cones by a considerable distance, and connected to them by an attenuated stalk. Both rod-granules & cone-granules are indeed considered by Max Schultze as nerve-cells with a very large nucleus & only a small amount of protoplasm. Similarly also are the rod-fibres considered by this Author to be nerve-fibres, and the cone-fibres to be bundles of the same. The rods & cones of the columnar layer, next to be described, would then be the terminal organs of the optic nerve-fibres. -6