258 MEDIAN & MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NERVES. MEDIAN NERVE. From inner & outer cords of bracHal plexus by two roots which surround 3rd part of axillary artery. - Lies at first on outer side (more or less so, but never quite in front) of 3rd part of axillary & upper part of brachial arteries. Crosses brachial artery usually in front, and lies on its inner side at bend of elbow. Between the two heads of pronator radii teres, and down middle of front of forearm, lying deeply at first between flexor sublimis & flexor profundus digitorum, and then super- ficially between tendon of flexor carpi radialis & outermost tendons of flexor sublimis. Beneath anterior annular ligament to palm of hand, where lies in front of flexor tendons, and becomes enlarged and flattened, and divides into two TERMINAL BRANCHES: External - Supplies abductor, opponens & outer head of flexor brevis poUicis, and gives palmar digital branches to thumb & outer side of index finger. Internal - Supplies the two outer lumbricales, and gives palmar digital branches to contiguous Bides of index, middle and ring fingers. - The digital nerves are superficial to the digital arteries. LATERAL BRANCHES: None in upper-arm. In fore-arm: Muscular - Arise near elbow j to all the superficial muscles of front of fore-arm except flexor carpi ulnaris. Ant. Interosseous - With anterior interosseous artery between flexor longus polhois & flexor profundus digitoram, supplying the former & the outer half of the latter, and ends in pronator quadratus. Palmar Cutaneous ^ From lower part. Pierces deep fascia a little above anterior annular ligament and supplies integument of palm of hand & ball of thumb, joining with palmar cutaneous branch of ulnar, and with radial or anterior branch of external cutaneous. MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS or EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE. From outer cord of brachial plexus in common with outer head of median. Through coraco-brachialis, and between biceps & brachialis anticus to a little above external condyle, where perforates deep fascia, and divides, behind median cephalic vein, into: Anterior Branch - Along front of radial side of fore-arm as low as wrist, where lies in front of radial artery, and joins with radial nerve. Sends filaments over ball of thumb, and accompanies radial artery to back of carpus. Posterior Branch - Along back of radial side of fore-arm, joining with radial and with external cutaneous branch of musculo-spiral. Supplies coraco-brachialis, biceps & brachialis anticus, and sends twigs to humerus & to ^ elbow-joint.