234 NERVES of the ORBIT Are the: SECOND or OPTIC N. — "V'ide foregoing Tablet- THIRD N. or MOTOR OCULI Arises from inner border of crus cerebri immediately in front of pons Varolii. — Deep origin . is from locus niger & grey nucleus on floor of aqueduct of Sylvius below tubercula quadrigemina. Pierces dura mater on outer side of and a little behind, anterior clinoid process. 1 Through outer wall of cavernous sinus above 4th nerve & ophthalmic branch of 5th, being joined by filaments from caveimous plexus. Divides into superior & inferior branches, which pass through sphenoidal fissure between , the two heads of external rectus, i Superior Br. - The smallest. Inwards above optic nerve to levator palpebra ■ stiperioris & superior rectus. Inferior Br. - The largest. To internal inferior recti and inferior oblique. — i Short or Motor root of Lenticular Ganglion is derived from nerve to i inferior oblique. FOURTH N., TROCHLEARIS or PATHETICUS Arises from upper part of valve of Vieussens immediately behind the testis. — Deep origin is fx'om two grey nuclei situated on floor of aqueduct of Sylvius & on upper part of floor of 4th ventricle. Crosses processus e cerebello ad testes and winds round under surface of crus cerebri I immediately in front of pons Varolii. Pierces dura mater in free border of tentoriumcerebelli near posterior clinoid process. Through outer wall of cavernous sinus below 3rd nerve and above ophthalmic branch of the 5th, receiving filaments from ophthalmic branch & from carotid plexus: Through highest and broadest part of sphenoidal fissure. Inwards above levator palpebrsa superioris to orbital surface of superior oblique. OPHTHALMIC BR. of the FIFTH N. — Vide Fifth Nerve. ORBITAL BRS. of the SUP. MAXILLARY N. & of MECKEL'S G. - Vide Sup. Maxillary N, and Meckel's G. SIXTH N. or ABDUCENS Arises by several filaments from constricted part of corpus pyramidale close to pons Varolii i' or from louver border of pons itself. — Deep origin is from a grey nucleus on floor of 4th ventricle. Pierces dura mater on basilar groove immediately below posterior clinoid process. Forwards on floor of cavernous sinus on outer side of internal carotid, artery, receiving filaments from carotid plexus, Meckel's ganglion & ophthalmic nerve. Through sphenoidal fissure beneath the other nerves & above ophthalmic vein, receiving filaments from sympathetic. Between the two heais of external rectus to ocular surface of that muscle.