208 STRUCTURE of the SPINAL CORD —1st Tablet. Presents for examination the grey & the white matter and the neuroglia. GREY MATTER. Its Arrangement - internal. Most abundant in the enlargements & in the lumbar region, and exists alone towards lower end of cord; least abundant in the dorsal region. Disposed in a series of superimposed masses or segments, which form the nuclei of origin of the spinal nerves (Stilling). In the greater part of the cord it presents on a transverse section two anteriorly converging crescentic masses, con- vex internally & joined by a transverse band, and offers therefore for description : Anterior Cornua - Short & thick, dentated at their extremity. Pass forwards & outwards towards antero-lateral fissure. Posterior Cornua - Long & narrow; longest in the cervical region, narrowest in the dorsal, rather thicker in the lumbar. Pass backwards & outwards to very near posterior lateral fissure. Their extremity is somewhat enlarged, and presents superficially the substantia gelatinosa, a modification of the grey matter which is slightly transparent. Posterior or Gtrey Commissure - Lies behind the anterior or white commissure, a little in front of the centre of the cord. It contains the central canal of I the cord, which canal is about l-lOOth of an inch in diameter, is lined with columnar ciliated epithelium, and opens superiorly into the cavity of the 4th ventricle. To the foregoing parts the two following have beea added by the ia- vestigations of Mr. Lockhart Clarke :- Lateral Intermediate Tract - Projects outwards from the concavity of the crescent opposite the grey commissure. Extends along the cord from upper part of cervical region to upper part of lumbar, being interrupted however at lower part of neck; is largest in the dorsal region. Posterior Vesicular Tract - Lies in, and partly fills up, the recess between the grey commissure & the posterior cornu. Extends from middle of cervical region to lower part of lumbar, and increases in size in the cervical & the ' lumbar swellings. Towards the lower part of the cord the grey matter is collected into a central crucial or indented mass. Its Structure - Consists of nerve-cells, which are of two kinds, the large & the small, and which are more or less intermixed with nerve-fibres & neuroglia. Large Nerve-Cells - From l-200th to l-400th of an inch. Most abundant in the anterior cornua, where they are disposed in an inner & an outer group. Eather less abundant & smaller posteriorly, where they are mainly collected in the posterior vesicular tracts. Small Nerve-Cells - Average from l-600fch to l-1200th of an inch; some are said to be as small as l-3000fch of an inch, but many of these very small cells are now believed to belong to the neuroglia. The small cells are scattered throughout the whole of the grey matter, bat are principally collected in the substantia gelatinosa & the lateral intermediate tract. WHITE MATTER — External; entirely surrounds the grey matter, except in the situation of the posterior or grey commissure. Deficient at the lower end of the cord; steadily increases in quantity from below upwards. - In structure it consists of neuroglia & of nerve-fibres of various sizes, the course of which fibres will be ex- amined in the two following Tablets. NEUROGLIA — The neuroglia or connective tissue is very abundant, especially in the posterior cornua of the grey matter, and in the immediate vicinity of the central canal. It forms a delicate network sometimes difficult to distinguish from the nervous substance itself, in which network are seen here and there, both free nuclei and also, according to KoUiker, a few nucleated cells with numerous ramifying processes. On the inner aspect of the posterior columns it forms, with a few delicate nerve-fibres, the two cuneiform bands of Goll.