PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION (1878). (Anatomy and Physiology.) In the present Edition, only those pages have been recast, which were considerably ont of date; the others, when requiring alteration, have simply been supplemented by an Appendix, which has been incorporated with the work, as far, at least, as could well be done without' Jiivolving considerable took-binder's Jabour. The pages of this Appendix have been marked 8a, 8b, 12a, 12^, 12c, etc., in corre- spondence with the pages they are intended to sapplement or correct; and its headings have been underlined red, to call attention to the new matter. A fresh .Appendix containing new discoveries of importance will be published every two or three years. A ad every succeeding Xppe^cJix^mff issued both separately^and incorporated with the work. The present Appendix to the Anatomy refers to the Viscera, & to the Organs of the Senses. It has been inserted after pages 290, & 360. Dr. Gowers' new description of the Gray Matter of the Cerebellum, and the views of Lockhart Clarke, Stilling, and others on the cranial nerves, etc., will also be found on pages 213, 230, & 250, of the text. Descriptions of the Thymus & Thyroid Bodies and Suprarenal Cap- sules have been added; also a careful description of the Teeth. In the Physiology, new matter is more abundant: The Appendix numbers forty pages. Twelve supplement Circulation j four, Eespiration; eight, Digestion j four, the General Development of the Embryo; eight, the Development of the Organs; and four are included under the heading "Addenda." - The two aspects of Physiology, the old & the new, are thus, to a certain extent, placed side by side. The latter parts of the work,—Nervous System, the Senses, and the greater part of Embryology,—having been re-written very recently, are not, for the present, supplemented. The Embryology will be found fairly complete & up to date. Both the older & the more modern views have been presented with respect to the Pharynx, OEsophagus, & Respiratory Tract, and with respect to the questions arising out of the disputed homologies of the Genital Ducts. A few divisions have been introduced into the study of some of the subjects. The History of the development of the Bones & Teeth concludes the volume; - the former subject "being divided into two parts, Skeletal Matrixy and Ossification of the Individual Bones. The diagrams representing the development of the veins are after those of Dr. Dalton of New York, who has treated the subject most skilfully & completely.* They have been engraved by Mr. W. Gibbs of Fleet Street. Histology & chemical physiology will be treated in a separate volume. ANATOMY & PHYSIOLOGY COMPLETE - By this phrase it is simply meant that all the subjects have been treated, which appeared susceptible of being treated advantageously in the Tabular form : - " Ina Learner's point of view, Scientific facts may be divided into those which are daily met with by the Student, and which soon become familiar to him, and those which are learned with considerable pains 6^ afterwards easily forgotten, and which require to be constantly recalled to the mind. The Author has endeavoured to deal with the Lattee Class of Facts Only." (V. Preface to the First Edition). * J. 0. Dalton - Treatise of Human Physiology, Philadelphia, 1871, 76.