257 BBACHIAL PLEXUS. Ji ormed as follows by anterior divisions of 5th, 6tli, 7th, & 8th cervical and 1st dorsal ns.: Fifth Sixth Ce7-vical unite between anterior & middle scaleni, and are soon joined hj part of the seventh, the outer cord ofthe plexus being thus formed. Eighth &> First Do7'sal unite behind scalenus anticus, and form the inner cord. Remaining pai-t of Seventh is joined a little lower down by two anastomotic branches given off by inner & outer cords, the third or posterior cord being thus formed. Varieties, more apparent than real, are frequently met with, resulting from the correspondingly increased or diminished size of the above mentioned anastomotic branches, and of the portion of the 7th. nerve which assists in forming the posterior cord; the posterior cord being formed almost completely, in the one case, by the branches given off by the two other cords, and in the other, by the 7th nerve itself. Other varieties may also result from the two anastomotic branches arising from the inner & outer cords either higher or lower than usual, and from their joining the remainder of the 7th nerve at a higher or at a lower level. Broad between anterior & middle scaleni, where anterior divisions of the nerves lie above 2nd part of subclavian artery; contracted opposite clavicle, where inner & outer cords lie at fore part of plexus on outer side of 3rd part of subclavian artery & of 1st part of axillary; again expanded in axilla, where the three cords lie on inner, outer & posterior aspects of 2nd part of axillary, and where they break up into the large nerves of upper limb. Communicates with the cervical plexus through loop between 4th & 5th nerves & through branch from 5th nerve to phrenic, and with middle & inferior ganglia of sympathetic. BRANCHES -- Are ABOVE THE CLAVICLE: Post, or Long Thoracic, or Ext. Eespiratory of Sir C. Bell - From 5th & 6th nerves, the two roots uniting in substance of sca- lenus anticus. Deeply along side of chest behind axillary vessels & cords of brachial plexus as far as lowest digitation of serratus magnus. Suprascapular - From back of trunk formed by union of 5th & 6th. Backwards & outwards beneath trapezius & through suprascapular foramen to supraspinous fossa, where lies between supraspina- tus & the bone. Round spine of scapula to infraspinous fossa. - Supplies supra- & infra- spinati (two twigs to each), shoulder-joint & scapula. IVEuSCUlar - To rhomboidei & frequently to levator anguli scapulse (from 5th nerve), subclavius (from 5th & 6th, anastomoses frequently with phrenic), scaleni & longus colli (variably from 6th 7th & 8th.) Cozmxiunicating - From 5th cervical to phrenic on anterior scalenus. BELOW THE CLAVICLE — The branches are given off from the three cords as follows, from: Outer Cord - External anterior thoracic, outer head of median, mus- culo-cutaneous or external cutaneous. Inner Cord - Internal anterior thoracic, inner head of median, ulnar, internal cutaneous, lesser internal cutaneous or n. of Wrisberg. Posterior Cord - The three subscapular nerves, musculo-spiral & circumflex(. Anterior Thoracic Nerves - Two, connected together by a loop on inner side of axillary artery. External or Superficial - The largest. Crosses both axillary artery & vein to under surface of pectoralis major. Internal or Deep - The smallest. Between artery & vein, and gives twigs to under surface of both pectorales. Subscapular Nerves - Three: Upper - The smallest; to upper part of subscapularis. Lower - To lower border of subscapularis & to teres major; the latter muscle having sometimes a separate nerve.- LoNG - The largest. Along lower border of subscapularis to latissimus dorsi. Nerves of the Arm - "Vide three following Tablets.