104 MUSCLES of the PACE—2nd Tablet. MUSCLES OP THE NOSE. Pyramidalis Nasi - Continuous superiorly with innermost fibres of occipito-froutalig. J Aponeurosis of compressor nasi. j Compressor Nasi - Lower & inner part of canine fosa. j Aponeurosis continuous with that of its fellow over bridge of nose. Levator Labii Superioris Alseque Nasi - Upper part of nasal process of superior maxilla. I Cartilage of ala of nose and upper lip blending with orbicularis & levator labii superioris proprius. Depressor Alse Nasi - Myrtiform fossa or incisor fossa of upper jaw. ! Septum and back part of ala of nose. Irregular and indistinct fasciculi may be found over the alar cartilages forming thei Levator Proprius Al^ Nasi Posterior or Dilatator Naris Posterior, 1 Levator Proprius Al^. Nasi Anterior or Dilatator Naris Anterior, i Compressor Narium Minor. i MUSCLES OF THE EYELIDS. Orbicularis Palpebrarum - Anterior surface and edges of tendo oculi, iuternal an. gular process of frontal, nasal process of superior maxilla in front of lachryma! groove. j Orbicular Portion - Thick & red, forms complete ellipses, and blends superiorly wit! occipito-frontalis and corrugator supercilii. Palpebral or Ciliary Portion - Thin & pale, forms a series of concentric curves, ancljjj is inserted externally into external tarsal ligament & malar bone. TENDO OCULI OR TENDO PALPEBRARUM - From nasal process of superioi! maxilla in front of lachrymal groove. Crosses anterior aspect of lachrymal sac giving off a fibrous lamina, the reflected portion of the tendo oculi, which passes backwards & inwards behind lachrymal sac to be attached to ridge on lachrymal bone. Bifurcates and is attached to inner extremity of each tarsal cartilage, Corrugator Supercilii - inner extremity of superciliary ridge of frontal. Under surface of orbicularis & occipito-frontalis. ; Tensor Tarsi - Ridgo & posterior part of outer surface of lachrymal bone. Crosses posterior aspect of lachrymal sac, and divides into two slips whick are inserted into tarsal cartilages near puncta lachrymalia. - May be coa- sidered as a deep part of ciliary portion of orbicularis. Levator Palpebrse Superioris - Under surface of lesser wing of sphenoid in front of optic foramen and externally to superior oblique. Upper bnrder of tarsal cartilage.