357 THE MIDDLE TUNIC of the EYE Is formed by the choroid, behind, and, in the anterior part of the eye, by the ciliary processes and the Iris, on the outer Bide o£ which two latter are the ligamentum pectinatum and the ciliary muscle. The Choroid Is a vascular and pigmentary membrane of a dark brown colour, thicker behind than in front, which lies between the sclerotic and the retina in the posterior five-sixths of the eye. It transmits the nerves and a part of the vessels, whicU supply the anterior parts of the eye. Its oiitei' surface is connected with the sclerotic by a fine cellular web, the lamina fusca. Its inner surface is smooth and lies in contact with the retina. Behind, it is pierced by the optic nerve. It is continuous in front, opposite the fore-part of the sclerotic, with the ciliary processes, the iris, the ciliary muscle, and the ligamentum pectinatum. STRUCTURE.—The stroma of the choroid is formed of a network of fusiform cells and of anastomosing Star-shaped pigment cells (Kolliker), and may be divided into three layers as follows:— External, or Venous Layer, contains a rich network of veins, the venae vorticosge, which form variously disposed curves, and converge towards four or five equidistant trunks, which latter issue from the eye-ball midway between the cornea and the entrance of the optic nerve. The larger branches of the short ciliary arteries pass forwards between the veins before they curve downwards to join the capillary layer. Middle, or Capillary Layer, or tunica Ruyschiana, presents a very fine capillary plexus, the meshes of which are smaller and more delicate near the optic nerve than in any other structme, but become larger in front, in which situation they are continuous with those of the ciliary processes. Internal, or Pigmentary Layer, consists of a single layer of remarkably regular hexagonal nucleated cells placed side by side, and so loaded with epithelium that their nucleus can scarcely be perceived. The lamina fusca contains a few star-shaped pigment cells, and is considered by Kolliker to form part of the choroid. The Ciliary Processes Form, with the ciliary muscle, which lies on their outer side, a thickened anterior annular portion of the second coat of the eye continuous in front with the ligamentum pectinatum and the iris, and marked on its inner or posterior surface by prominent converging plaits or folds, to which the above name is applied, which folds are intimately adherent both to the subjacent ciliary portion of the retina and suspensory ligament of the lens, the latter of which presents similar folds between which the ciliary processes of the choroid are received. The ciliary processes consist of large and small irregularly alternating folds, numbering altogether between sixty and eighty, the number of the small folds being about one-third of that of the large ones. Each fold or process presents a rounded inner extremity situated behind the peripheral portion of the iris, and an outer taper- ing prolongation which is lost on the inner surface of the choroid. The ciliary processes are similar in structure to the choroid, but less vascular. The Iris Presents a peripheral borc?er attached to the contiguous margins of the cornea and sclerotic by means of the ligamentuts pectinatum and continuous with the ciliary processes, the ciliary muscle, and the choroid. This border is surrounded Df a venous canal, the sinus circularis iridis, or canal of Schlemm ; jin inner edge, which forms the boundary of the pupil; , An anterior surface variously coloured in different individuals, and marked by wavy converging lines ; A posterior surface covered with a layer of dark pigment, the uvea. STRUCTURE.—The iris consists of a stroma of circular and radiating unstriped muscular and connective tissue fibres, scattered through which are a few ramified pigment colls, and on the posterior surface of which is a thick layer of rounded pigment cells continuous with the i)igmentary covering of the ciliary processes and choroid. It is still undecided whether in the adult the posterior epithelial layer of the cornea is prolonged over the anterior surface of the iris as it is in childhood. The radiating fibres of the iris are continued into the posterior elastic lamina of the cornea, forming festoon-like pro- cesses, which constitute the properly so called ligamentum pectinatum. The circular and radiating muscular fibres of the iris form what have been called respectively the sphincter and the dilator muscles. The arteries of the iris are derived from the long and anterior ciliary, and from the vessels of the ciliary processes. Its nerves are derived from the ciliary nerves, which break up in the ciliary muscle before entering the iris. The Ligamentum Pectinatum Is a structure first described by Hueck, which forms the principal connection between the middle and outer tunics of the eye. It is formed of radiating fibres of elastic and connective tissue (Kolliker), which arise from the margin of the posterior elastic lamina of the cornea and from the point of junction of the sclerotic and cornea. Some of these fibres pass into the iris, forming the festoon-like processes which constitute the properly so called ligamentum pectinatum, the others give origin to part of the fibres of the ciliary muscle, and form the inner boundary of the sinus circularis iridis, or canal of Schlemm. The Ciliary Muscle Is a yellowish-white ring of radiating unstriped muscular fibres, situated on the outer side of the ciliary processes and front part of the choroid. Its fibres arise from the ligamentum pectinatum, and from the inner surface of the sclerotic close to the cornea. They pass backwards and outwards, and join the choroid opposite and beyond the ciliary processes. Beneath, and concealed by, the radiating fibres, is a ring of circular muscular fibres, which was long described as the ciliary ligament. , ^ , , Ophthalmologists are far from being agreed as to the mode of action of the ciliary muscle, home beheve that it draws the lens and the whole ciliary apparatus forwards, and this is certainly the case in some birds (R. J. Lee) ; others believe that it T relaxes the elastic suspensory ligament of the lens, and thus allows the latter to assume a more circular form (Helmholtz). The experiments of Helmholtz appear to prove that through the action of this muscle a change is produced in the shape oi the lens, which change consists in an increased convexity and a projection forwards of the anterior surface of that body, and in the slightly increased convexity without or nearly without displacement, of its posterior surface. The vascular and nerve-supply of the ligamentum pectinatum and ciliary muscle is the same as that of the iris.