GANGLIATED CORDS & GANGLIA. GANGLIATED CORDS — Lie on each side & along tlie whole length of spinal column, con; verging inferiorly upon the coccyx in the ganglion impar, and being prolonged superiorl; into the head along internal carotid artery. They are usually single, sometimes double occasionally wanting here & there. Relatively to the size of the ganglia they are larges in the dorsal region. They are divided into Cervical Portion - ^^^^ front of transverse processss of cervical vertebrae behind internal jugular vein, and presents three ganglia (Yide Cervical portion of Sym' pathetic] j Thoracic Portion - Lies in front of heads of ribs & intercostal vessels, beneath pleurae I on outer side of venae azygos, at first at a small distance from, and then close tc i bodies of vertebrae. It presents eleven or twelve gangha Lumbar Portion - Penetrates into abdomen, on right side through a small opening ii right crus of diaphragm, on left side either through aortic opening or through i small separate opening in left crus. It lies in front of bodies of vertebrae on inne side of psoas, behind inferior vena cava on the right side, behind abdominal aorta oi the left. It presents four or five gangha' Sacral Portion - I^ies in front of sacrum on inner side of anterior sacral foramina, and converging towards its fellow inferiorly, usually ends in the ganglion impar PREVERTEBRAL GANGLIA — Usually three cervical, eleven or twelve dorsal, four o five lumbar, four sacral, one coccygeal. More or less oval or triangular in shape, an- elongated from above downwards Cervical - "Vide cervical portion of sympathetic. JJorsal - I^ie most of them in front of heads of ribs, the nine or ten first at a little distanc from, the two or three last close to, bodies of corresponding vertebrae; occasionall; one or two ganglia lie opposite the corresponding intervertebral foramina. The; are smaller than the cervical & lumbar. The first one is the largest and is ofte: blended with the inferior cervical. The last one is usually stellate in shape, aa is sometimes blended with the first lumbar. - They present EooTS, OR Branches or Communication with the Dorsal Nerves - Usually two i number: - Either both ascend obliquely upwards & outwards to join th dorsal nerve above just before its bifurcation, or one ascends as above de scribed, and the other descends to join the dorsal nerve below in corres ponding situation. Sometimes one or two ganglia have a third root resultin; from bifurcation of one of the roots to adjoining dorsal nerves, and ever' occasionally, an additional root to second dorsal nerve abov£! Internal Branches, or Branches of Distribution - Those from five or six upper gang! lia are small & greyish; they mainly supply thoracic aorta & its brancheej & bodies of vertebrae & their ligaments; those from third & fourth ganglia joiii posterior pulmonary plexus. Those from six or seven lower ganglia are large]} & whiter; they give ojffa few small branches to aorta, and join to form thd great, lesser, & last splanchnic nerves (V.Solar Plexus); LUXUbar - Hather larger & more distinct than the dorsal, and situated at a greater distandjl from the corresponding intervertebral foramina, the first one often lying oppositij: body of second lumbar vertebra, and the last one opposite sacro-vertebral articulalj tion. - They present || Boots, or Branches or Communication with the Lumbar Nerves - Two or three for eachjj Are longer & more slender than those of dorsal ganglia, and pass beneath thf i fibrous arches of psoas in company with lumbar arteries & veins | Internal Branches, or Branches of Distribution - Give a few twigs to bodies of ver tebrse & their ligaments, and assist in forming the aortic & hypogastric i plexuses S&Cral - Smaller than the dorsal & lumbar, and diminish in size as they descend ;_li«,, close to inner side of anterior sacral foramina, those of opposite sides approximatingij as they descend, and usually blend in front of coccyx in a median ganglion, th< coccygeal ganglion or ganglion impar. - They presen , Boots, or Branches of Communication with the Sacral Nerves - Usually two for eacl; ganglion; are short & small IWTEfiifAL Branches, or Branches op Distribution - Those of the two upper ganglia joii inferior hypogastric or pelvic plexus; the others descend upon the arterii aacra media, and supply the sacrum & coccyx & their ligaments, and th' coccygeal glauc