THE EXTERNAL EAR Consists of the pinna or auricle, & tlio external auditory canal. Pinna or Auricle Presents for examination tho:— Concha,—Central deep cavity, oread above, narrow below, leading into thd auditory canal. It has in front of it the Tragus,—A conical eminence frequently covered with hairs on its under sur. face; and behind it the Antitragus,—A smaller eminence separated from the former by a deep notch, the incisura intertragica.—Tho JJolix,—The prominent curved margin of the pinna, internal to which is the Fossa of the Helix,—A long narrow groove -which follows the inner margin of the helix, and is bounded internally by the Antihelix,—Another curved ridge broader than the helix, and which forms the posterior boundary of the concha. It bifurcates above, so as to enclose the iossa of tiie Antihelix, — A triangular depression comprised between the front part of the helix and the two divisions of the antihelix. Lobule,—The soft pendulous portion of the auricle. Stractura of the Pinna or Auricle—Presents for examination the r Cartilage of tiie Pinna,—Represents the greater part of the pinna, minus the_]obule._ The portions which form the concha and the tragus are also prolonged inwards to form the outer or cartilaginous portion of the external auditory canal. It is attached by dense fibrous tissue to the rough margin of the externa] auditory meatus of the temporal bone. It IS wanting between the tragus & the front part of the helix. It presents several fissures or slits : a vertical fissure on the lower & front part of the helix; a vertical fissure on the front part of the tragus; the helix and part of the anti. helix are separated below from the antitragus by a deep vertical slit which cuts off a pendulous tail-lilce process, the processus caudatus; two or three irregular fissures, the fissure of Santorini, divide transversely the portion of the cartilage which enters into the structure of the external auditory canal. Fibrous Tissue—Fnis up the deficiencies of the cartilage, and bridges over the slits, forming the intrinsic ligaments. Ligaments—The extrinsic ligaments are two in number, and connect the helix & the tragus to the root of the zygoma, and the concha to the mastoid process. Muscles—Are :— Extrinsic :—Attollens, Attrahens & Eetrahens Aurem (v. Ms. of the Face), IntjunsiC—Are six small bands of pale muscular fibres termed : Helicis IIajo7'—Lies vertically upon the anterior border of the helix. Ilelicis Minor—Lies obliquely upon the portion of the helix, which springs from the bottom of the concha. Tragicus—Lies vertically on the outer surface of the tragus. Ant itragicus—Extends obliquely from the outer surface of the antitragus to the processus caudatus of the helix. Transversus Auriculce—Eadiates on the cranial surface of the pinna, from the convexity of the concha to the prominence corresponding to the fossa of the helix. Ohliquus Auricidoi—Extendson the cranial surfaceof the pinna, from the convexity of the concha to prominence corresponding to the fossa of tlie antihelix. Inte's IliT.ent—is closely adherent to tho cartilage, and presents numerous '<^'<t*'jeous glands, especially in tlie concha & in the fossa of the helix.— "With the subjacent areolar tissue it forms entirely the lobule. Vessels & Nerves.—The vessels are derived from, or open into, the occipital, posterior auricular iSb temporal; the nerves are derived from the great auricular & auriculo.teiQpcrsJj and from the auricular branches of the pneumogastric & facial.