187 THEIR TRIBUTARY BRANCHES. Ilio-Lumbair - Open into common iliac. Lateral Sacral - Open either into common or into internal iliao. Middle Sacral - Open into left common iliao or inferior cava. Lunibar - Thre^ or four on eacli side. Correspond to the lumbar arteries, and collect the blood by dorsal branches from the muscles & integument of the back, and by abdominal branches from the walls of the abdomen. Round sides of bodies of vertebrDB beneath psoas, receiving branches from the spinal plexuses, and open into back part of vena cava; the left lumbar veins pass beneath the aorta, and are longer than the right ones. The two or three highest usually join into a plexus, from which arises an ascending trunk, the ascending lumbar vein^ which forms the most frequent origin of the corresponding vena azygos. Spermatic - Ascend along front of spermatic cord, forming a branched & aon- yo\utQdi "ple-Kxis^ the plexus pampinifo7'j?zis ; enter abdomen and coalesce into two branches which run up upon psoas on either side of spermatic artery, the vessels of the left side passing beneath the sigmoid flexure of the colon; and open by a common trunk, on the right side into the inferior cava, on the left side into the left renal. - The ovarian veins of the female form their pampiniform plexus within the broad ligament of the uterus, and communicate freely with the uterine; their subsequent course is the same as that of the spermatic veins in the raale.- Valves are found in the spermatic veins, and occasionally also in the ovarian. Henal - Large, short; lie in front of artery. The left vein is the longest, and usually opens into the inferior vena cava a little lower than the right one; it crosses aorta below origin of superior mesenteric artery, and receives the left sperma* tic, suprarenal, & inferior phrenio* Suprarenal - Open on right side into inferior cava, on left side into renal. Inferior Phrenic - Open on right side into inferior cava, on left side into renal. Sepatic - Communicate within lobules of liver with lobular branches of portal vein, and also indirectly with terminal branches of hepatic artery (Kiernan), and form in succession the intralobular & sublobular veins, and the hepatic veins proper (V. Structure of the Liver). These latter form three trunks destitute of valves, and open into the inferior cava whilst that vessel is contained in the groove in posterior border of lirer.