216 THE FOURTH VENTRICLE. Rhomboidal cavity bounded by the medulla obloaj?ata & mesocephalon below & in front and the cerebellum above & behind, and closed in inferiorly by the layer of pia matter ex- tending between these parts. Presents• FLOOR — Lozengc-shaped, oblique downwards & backwards, covered by a stratum of grey matter from which arise the 6th, 7th, 8fch, & 9th nerves * (Vide structure of medulla oblongata, 2nd Tablet); bounded on either side below by the posterior pyramids & restiform bodies, and above by the processus e cerebello ad testes. Presents the following parts, which give rise to the appearance termed the calamus scriptorius' Postero-Median Fissure - Continued above into the aqueduct of Sylvius or iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, below into the ventricle of Arantius or short upper expanded part of the central canal and into the postero-median fissure of the cord. LiNEyE Tkansveus^. - A few white fibres very variable in number sometimes scarcely recognisable, which emerge from the lower part of the postero-median fis- sure, cross the eminentise teretes, and join, some of them the crus cere- belli, others the roots of the auditory nerve j a few sometimes ascend to the locus coeruleus. EMINENT!^ Teretes - Two spindle-shaped elevations, greyish & slightly marked below, whiter & more prominent above, due to the fasciculi teretes, as they ascend beneath the grey matter on either side of the postero-median fissure. - On either side of these eminences is a GuoovE, or rather, in well marked bodies, two small fosse, which lie, the posterior, inferior & narrowest one, near the lower extremity of the ventricle, and the anterior, superior & broadest one, opposite the crus cerebelli. The latter fossa leads upwards to the Locus CffiKULEUS - A bluish spot due to an accumulation beneath the surface, of dark vesicular matter termed the substantia ferruginea. From this spot the Tinea Violacea, - A bluish streak, the continuation upwards of the locus casruleus, ascends on the outer side of the eminentia teres to the opening of the aque* duct of Sylvias. ROOF — Formed above by the superior peduncles of the cerebellum & the valve of Vieus- sens, below by the tonsils, the inferior vermiform process with the uvula, the nodule or laminated tubercle of Malacarne, & by the posterior medullary velum or commissura ad flocculum. Still lower down is the ligula. LATERAL BOUNDARIES — Formed by the superior peduncles of the cerebellum above, and by the diverging restiform bodies & posterior pyramids below. UPPER EXTREMITY — Presents the opening of the aqueduct of Sylvius or iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum. LOWER EXTREMITY - Usually presents an opening in the layer of pia mater which bounds the ventricle inferiorly, through which opening the ventricular cavities of the bram communicate with the subarachdoidean space of the brain & cord. Choroid Plexuses of 4th Ventricle - Vide intra -cerebral portion of the pia mater. *Note - -'^n*-! also the 4th and 5th nerves, and the external or deep root of the Auditory.