THE STRUCTURE of the CORNEA. 11 372* According to the careful description of Eollet, which is endorsed by Profs. Sharpey & Schafer, What has hitherto been known as the anterior elasiic lamina of Bow??ian is no longer to be described separately: This stratum does not differ materially from the remainder of the cornea proper, as will presently be shown. Counting from the surface towards the deeper parts, the layers of the cornea are therefore as follows : - Anterior layer of epithelium, cornea proper, posterior elastic lamina, posterior layer of epithelium, or endothelium, as Rollet calls it. - The new discoveriea in connection with these layers may be summarised as follows : - ^ Anteeior later of Epithelium - Is of the stratified variety. The deepest cells are colum- nar in shape. Their base, which rests upon the cornea proper, is flattened ; and, when seen iu profile, it presents a highly refractile line, the basal hem or border. Their apex is rounded, and capped by one or more of the cells of the layer above. Above these columnar cells, are two or three layers of rounded or polygonal cells, with more or less marked angular projections or ribs, separated by intervening furrows. Some of these cells, the fingered or digitate cells of Prof. Cleland, Bend elongated processes between the columnar cells below. Quite superficially, there are three or four layers of flattened cells, most of which have retained their nucleus. Cornea Proper - The fibres of the several inter-communicating strata described by Bow- man appear to cross each other at right angles. They are collected into small bundles separated by the matrix or ground substance, which latter is especially abundant between the strata. It is between these strata that the corneal corpuscles, the corneal cell-spaces, and the canals of Reck- Unghatisen are found. The corneal corptiscles correspond to the corpuscles of other connective tissues. They are large branching cells, the processes of which join with those of their neighbours, both of the same & of adjoining strata. They are flattened from above downwards, and expanded laterally : in vertical sections they appear as fusiform swellings; it is only in horizontal sections that their true form & relations are seen. Their protoplasm is clear & hyaline, except near the nucleus, where it is more or less granular. These corpuscles lie in the corneal cell-spaces, which, though being a little larger than the contained corpuscles, correspond to them in figure; and give off anastomosing tubular offsets, which ensheathe the processes of the cells. The system of these cell-spaces & tubules forms what are called Recklinghausen's canals. These are continued into the cell-spaces of the sclerotic, and serve for the passage of lymph & leucocytes. They can easily be injected by introducing the nozzle of a small syringe into the corneal tissue, using a thin fluid, and employing a low pressure: a network of stellate anasto- mosing figures then immediately appear. If too consistent a fluid be used, or too great force employed, the injection matter becomes extravasated between the bundles of fibres of the corneal tissue; and the appearance produced is that of minute varicose canals running at right angles to one another in the several strata. The so-called Anterior Elastic Lamina op Bowman is simply a layer of corneal tissue sligbtly condensed, free from corpuscles & cell-spaces, and in which a few oblique fibres, the binding fibres, or fibra arcuatce of Stutzfiasern, are seen to pass towards the surface. The Posterior Elastic Lamina, or Membrane of descemet or demours, is perfectly trans- parent & apparently structureless; firm & elastic, but very brittle; unaffected by acids, alkalies, or boiling water. It is covered posteriorly with a single layer of flattened polygonal nucleated cells (Y. page 356}. The Nerves of the cornea have been carefully studied of late by Cohnheim, Eollet, Klein & others. They are derived from the ciliary nerves, and are from forty to fifty in number. They at first retain their dark outline, but soon become transparent. They then ramify, and form a relatively go2,vqqpri?nary plexus throughout the laminated structure. From this primary plexus, two sets of branches are given off, those which supply the cornea proper and those which supply the anterior epithelial layer. The fibres which supply the cornea proper form a secondary plexus, much finer & closer than the primary one above described, but the cords of which still consist of several nerve-fibres. From this secondary plexus, arises a terminal or tertiary plexus of ultimate fibrils. The fibres which supply the epithelium similarly form a fine secondary or sicb-epithelial plexus close to the anterior surface of the cornea proper. Prom this plexus, a tertiary or intra-epithelial plexus, finer still, extends almost to the free surface. - A few nuclei are found at the points of junction of the larger cords of the primary plexus; they appear, however, not to be nerve-cells lying in the course of the nerve-fibres, but rather to belong to the ensheath- ing cells described below. No proper Lymphatics appear to exist in the cornea. Tubular sheaths of flattened epithelioid cells, apparently in continuity with the canals of Eecklinghausen, surround, however, the larger branches of the nerves, and ramify with them.