BRANCHES of the ABDOMINAL A0RTA-2nd Tablet. CCELIAC AXIS. Short thick trunk, from front of aorta between pillars of diaphragm. Forwards above pancreas and between lobus Spigelii & right semilunar ganglion on the right, a left semilunar ganglion & cardiac end of stomach on the left, for about half an inch, a divides in GASTRIC, OR CORONARIA VENTRICULI - The smallest. Upwards and to the left to cardiac orifice of stomach. Along lesser curvature between layers of lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum to pylor where inosculates with pyloric branch of hepatic; gives branches to both s faces of stoma HEIPATIC - Intermediate in size in the adult; the largest in the foetus. Upwards and to the right in front of foramen of Winslow, between the two layers along right border of lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum, - ductus commi choledochus lying to the right, and the vena portse behind, - and divides transverse fissure of liver into two branches, which accompany division! vena portse & hepatic duct to right & left lobes. Gives oS brand Pyloric - To pylorus, and along lesser curvature, inosculating with gastric. Gastro-dUOdenalis - Large; downwards behind duodenum, and divides int Gastro-epiploica dextra - Along greater curvature of stomach heU, layers of great omentum, giving branches to both surfaces of stom and to omentum, and inosculates with gastro-epiploica sinis Pancreatico-duodenalis Superior - Descends between pancreas and ( denum ,and anastomoses with inferior pancreatico-duodenalii branch of superior mesent( Oystic - Arises from right division. - Upwards to neck of gall bladder, ramifies on its under surface, and between it & li > SPLENIC - The largest. Tortuous course to the left behind upper border of pancreas and above splenic i i and divides into numerous branches which enter hilum of sple( • Gives : Pancreaticse parvse - Numerous, small. Pancreatica magna - From left to right along posterior surface of panoi ■ Vasa brevia - From five to seven in number; between layers of gastro-spl 5 omentum to splenic end of stom • Gastro-epiploica sinistra-Along greater curvature of stomach bet^ i layers of great omentum, giving branches to both surfaces of stoma' to omentum, and inosculating with gastro-epiploica de: "