294 THE TONGUE —2nd Tablet. MUSCULAR FIBRES Form extrinsic & intrinsic muscles, EXTRINSIC MUSCLES Are the: ' Stylo-glosSUS - Anterior & outer aspect of styloid process near its apex & stylo- maxillary ligament. Side of base of tongue externally to hyo-glossus, dividing into : Longitudinal portion - Forwards along side of tongue, and blends with lingualis inferior in front of hyo-glossus. Transverse portion - Decussates with hyo-glossus & with its fellow. Hyo-glossus - Side of body, lesser comu & whole length of great cornu of hyoid I bone (basio-glossus, chondro-glossus, cerato-glossus). ] Side of under surface of tongue between stylo-glossus & lingualis inferior. Genio-hyO-gloSSUS - By a short tendon from superior genial tubercle on ; inner surface of boly of jaw-bone^ close to symphysis, j Whole length of under surface of tongue internally to lingualis in- ■ ferior, side of pharynx, body of hyoid bone. Palato-glossus or Constrictor Isthmi Faucium - Anterior surface of soft palate close to uvula. Side of base of tongue, blending with stylo-glossus. INTRINSIC MUSCLES H Are the: j^m Lingualis transversus - Median septum. "( Sides, and sides of dorsum. - Forms the chief bulk of the tongue. Lingualis Superior - stratum of longitudinal or slightly oblique fibres thickest in front, and covering dorsum of tongue beneath the mucous ^ membrane to which the individual fibres are attached, jj Lingualis Inferior - Longitudinal band of fibres along whole length of under surface of tongue between hyo-glossus & genio-hyo-glossus. Blends with stylo-glossus in front of hyo-glossus. Lingualis Perpendicularis - Set of vertical or slightly oblique fibres from i centra] part of dorsum to sides of under surface, forming curves concave upwards & outwards, i The outer parts, or cortex, of the tongue are firm, and consist mainly of ! longitudinsbl fibres j the central part, or nucleus, is softer, and ' consists mainly of transverse & vertical fibres intermingled with :| ■^■ ■■^^ adipose tissue* I ;! Ji