8 Mr Wardrop’;? ^htch of the Life and Writings : shall suppose also, that its extent is one-third of the diameter of the cornea, although an opacity leaving a much larger transpa- rent surface may destroy what may be termed useful vision. « The eyelids being secured, a puncture is to be made in the cornea with a broad cornea knife, within a line of the sclerotica, to the extent of about three lines. All pressure is now to be removed from the eyeball, and the cornea-knife gradually with- drawn. The consequence of this is, that a portion of the aque- ous humour escapes, and the iris falls into contact with the open- ing in the cornea, closing it like a valve. ' A slight pressure must now be made upon the superior and nasal part of the eyelid, with the fore and middle finger of the left-hand, till at length, by an occasional and gentle increase of pressure, or by varying its direction, the iris will gradually protrude, so as to present a bag of the size of a large pin’s head. This protruded portion is to be cut olF with a pair of fine curved scissars, and all the pres- sure at the same time removed. The iris will then recede with- in the eye, and the portion of it which has been removed will leave an artificial pupil, more or less circular.” After a minute description of the operation, as adapted to dif- ferent sets of cases, Mr Gibson concludes with observing, « That the permanency of the artificial pupil, appears to me to depend principally upon the size of the opening and healthy state of the iris and contiguous parts of the eye, at the time of the operation. When the artificial pupil has been made almost as large as the medium size of the natural one, and especially when the part of the iris removed has included the border, I have never seen any disposition of the opening to close. When, how- ever, a more narrow slip has been removed, when the iris, from previous inflammation, has become more vascular than natural, or when it is complicated with adhesions to the crystalline lens, in such cases its closure has occasionally taken place. The de- gree of vision restored by an operation of this kind, is not quite so perfect as that which succeeds the removal of a cataract. In most cases, however, when the cornea has been perfectly tran- sparent to the full extent of one-third of its diameter, the patient has been able to read tolerably small print.” I have paid considerable attention to the state of the arti- ficial pupil after the eye was quite recovered, in order to ascer- tain whether the fibres of the iris possess any power of motion, so as to alter the size of the new opening, but have never been able to detect any thing similar to the contraction and dilatation of the natural pupil. It appears to me, that although the new pupil may sometimes close when the iris is in a morbid state, yet, that this membrane, a few days after an operation, has very little