4 Mr Wardrop’s Sketch of the Life and Writings pends the great art of adapting particular remedies to particular diseases, and of modifying their exhibition according to the pe- culiarities which these diseases assume in every individual. Besides, his anatomical knowledge, and his familiarity with the examination of morbid appearances, made his acquaintance with diseases, and his knowledge of the means necessary for their treatment, of the most accurate and comprehensive kind. His unusual dexterity in the operations of surgery, and his long habits of delicate and minute dissection, particularly of the organs of sense, led him, from a very early period of his practice, to pay great attention to the diseases of the eye. Not only did he become a most dexterous operator on that organ, but some of the operations he materially improved, and he bestowed great pains on the investigation of the treatment of all its diseases. There were no features in Mr Gibson’s mind more to be ad- mired, than his eagerness in acquiring, and his zeal in diffusing knowledge. In the year after his first settlement in Manchester, he began to give lectures in anatomy, which were attended by all the medical students at Manchester ; and he took great pains to communicate to his pupils the results of his private, as well as his public practice. As a lecturer, (I have been informed by one who was a frequent attendant,) he evinced a de- gree of talent, which, had circumstances led him to the metro- polis, or to any other suitable field for its exertion, would have raised him to the highest distinction. An appearance extremely prepossessing; a voice, though somewhat feeble, yet agreeable in its tones, and distinct in its utterance ; a lively interest in his subject, expressed by his animated countenance and manner; and, above all, the perfect knowledge of his science, and the neatness and lucid order of his demonstrations, singularly fitted him for becoming a popular teacher of anatomy, and for disput- ing the palm with those who have been most eminent in that honourable profession. The same mode of thinking which led him freely to communicate the improvements which were con- stantly suggested by his fertile and industrious mind, created feelings of contemptuous indignation towards those who attempt- ed to conceal any professional discovery, either with the vi§w to add unmerited lustre to their name, or for the mere accumula- tion of gain. These feelings had become, towards the close of life, unusually acute ; for, at a time when his mind had be- come irritable, from the ravages of the disease which ultimate- ly proved fatal, some important practical improvements of his own had been brought forward as the discoveries of others, and artfully announced to the world as secret remedies. It