5 of the late Mr Benjamin Gibson, It would be out of place for me to attempt to dwell on his private virtues. These will long linger in the remembrance of that circle of society who had the good fortune to enjoy his friendship; and the number of individuals is not small, who re- tain a grateful impression of his professional aid and benevolent disposition. Mr Gibson being naturally of a delicate fabric, the ardour of his mind surpassed the strength of his frame *, and, at the same time, the anxious and laborious duties of his profession contri- buted no doubt to shorten the period of his existence. He had for a long time shown a great predisposition to pulmonary com- plaints ; and at last he was seized with symptoms of confirmed phthisis, the slow progress of which warned him of his approach- ing fate, whilst they were not so severe as to prevent him prose- cuting his professional pursuits, till a few days before his death. He died on the third of February 1812, having just reached his 3 7th year. In his writings, Mr Gibson has left some valuable memo- rials of his industry and talents. The first of these was an Essay read in April 1801 before the Philosophical Society of Man- chester, and published in the 1st volume of the 2d Series of their Memoirs, and is entitled, “ Observations on the Effects of Mad^ der^Root on the Bones of Animals This paper leads to establish a very important physiologi- cal fact, not only with regard to the formation of bone, but it re- futes some doctrines which had been built on an erroneous ex- planation of the mode by which madder changes the colour of the bones of living animals. It had been sometime known to physiologists, that the bones of a young animal, fed on madder-root, acquired a red colour j but Dr Rutherford was the first person who gave any thing like a satisfactory explanation, why the colouring-matter was com- municated to the bones alone, of all the white parts of the body. He conceived that the colouring-matter of the madder had a su- perior attraction to the phosphate of lime, that it united with that part of it which was floating in the general mass of blood, so that all future bone which was formed had a red colour. From the manner in which the coloured portion is deposited, Duha- mel’s opinion of the lamellated structure of bone was supposed to receive an additional confirmation ; and the alternate appear- ance of red and white laminae, produced by feeding the animal with, or depriving it of the madder, were considered as convin- cing proofs, that the harder parts of the animal frame were con- stantly undergoing the same waste and repair, which had been generally believed to take place in the softer parts. Mr Gibson, after