6f the late Mr Benjamin (Gibson. ?7 ail other mucous surfaces, thepuriform ophthalmia of adults and gonnorrhoea being also propagated only by the actual contact of the diseased matter. Till this time, Mr Gibson had only become known to the •world, from the contributions which he had made to the Tran- sactions of Societies or to public Journals. But a short period before his death, he published a separate work, which establish- ed, on the firmest foundation, the high opinion which had been fornled of his professional talents. The work is entitled, “ Practical Observations on the forma- tion of an Artificial Pupil in several deranged States of the Eye ; to which are annexed, remarks on the Extraction of the Soft- Cataract, and those of the Membranous kind, through a puncture in the Cornea. Illustrated by plates. London, 1811.” This work is divided into four sections.—.The first contains the history of the operation for forming an artificial pupil.—^The second is on the mode of forming an artificial pupil, adapted to different deranged states of the eye.—The third, on a mode of extracting a soft cataract through a puncture in the cornea and the fourth, on the extraction of several kinds of membranous cataracts. In the first section is contained an account of the various modes which have at different times been either suggested or employed for making an artificial pupil. Of the defects to which all these modes of operations are liablcj every one who has at- tempted to perform them must be well aware 5 and such has been the discredit into which they have all fallen, that they have of late years been almost entirely abandoned. The numerous cases where an artificial pupil appeared prac- ticable, rendered any successful mode of performing the opera- tion one of the great desiderata of surgery, and in accomplish- ing this desirable object, Mr Gibson advanced a very important step. In the second section, Mr Gibson entered into a full and de- tailed account of his new mode of operating ; of the different states of the eye which admitted relief ; and of the kind of ope- ration adapted for the different cases. It wmuld be foreign to the object of the present paper, to en- ter into a minute discussion of all these interesting topics. Every part of this section of the work merits the attention of him who is to perform such operations. The following extracts may per- haps give a general idea of the principles of his mode of treat- ment. “ In describing the following operations,” says the inge- nious author, “ I shall select a case in which the transparent part of the cornea is situated towards the outer angle of the eye. I shall