3 tf the late Mr Benjamin Glhsq;t, almost unrivalled. Many lasting monuments of this talent now remain, particularly a series of preparations exhibiting the struc- ture of the ear in the museum of the University of Edinburgh, and an extensive private collection at Manchester, chiefly intend- ed to illustrate the anatomy of the organs of sense. Such indeed was his dexterity, that, when a young student, he amused himself with cutting a cherry-stone into the form of a human cranium, and detailing, in that minute scale, with incredible accuracy, thq various eminences and depressions of the bones. After spending two winters in London, he visited Edinburgh in the year 1798. There he passed the winter-session and part of the ensuing summer, attending the most celebrated lecturers of that university, and displaying his usual zeal and industry as a stu- dent. In consequence of the very favourable opinion which had been formed of his abilities, he was solicited in the autumn of 1799 to assist Mr White of Manchester, who was at that time about to withdraw himself, in part, from the fatigues of busi- ness After having been actively engaged in the practical part of his profession, for nearly eight years, along with Mr White, Mr Gib- son began his own professional career. He had already acquired no small degree of medical fame, and public confidence ; and, besides an extensive private practice, he was appointed one of the surgeons of the Manchester Infirmary, an institution where perhaps there is a greater field for surgical ex- perience than any in this island, those* of the metropolis not ex- cepted. He had, therefore, every opportunity of cultivating his profession, and these he embraced with eagerness and prosecuted with assiduity. In every thing that regarded the operative part of surgery, he pre-eminently excelled, having great ingenuity in devising means, and possessing a degree of nicety and dexterity in execution which few have ever acquired. But he had still more important qualifications. The native powers of his mind, improved by early application and habit, had given him a great facility in distinguishing dis- eases, and of perceiving all those delicate shades of diflFerence, that escape the eye of a common observer. This faculty is, per- haps, the most essential to the medical practitioner j for on it de- * It might be well to state, that Mr White had applied to the professor of anatomy in Edinburgh, and to some of the principal anatomical teachers in London, to recommend the most eligible person of their acquaintance for so important a trust, and that, without any communication with each other, they all concurred in the selection of Mr Gibson.