10 Mr Wardrop’s Sketch of the Life and Writings I through the pupil, so as to make a more free division of it. All pressure on the eye-ball must now be avoided, and the cornea- knife gradually withdrawn, which is attended with the evacua- tion of the aqueous humour, and some portion of the cataract. The curette is next to be introduced through the incision, and advanced towards the pupil, by which the whole of the cataract may commonly be by degrees removed in a pulpy state, so as to render the pupil perfectly clear. Its removal is generally much facilitated by gentle pressure towards the vitreous humour with the convex surface of the curette, whilst the point is inserted through the pupil. Sometimes, however, the cataract is not re- duced to a sufficient degree of softness by the action of the aque- ous humour, and this state makes its removal more slow, but sel- dom renders the repetition of the operation necessary. For when a considerable portion of the cataract has been removed, the re- mainder is generally observed to be so much reduced in bulk be- fore the fit period for another operation, as to ensure its speedy disappearance.’’ Mr G. afterwards points out the changes which take place in the appearance of the lens, that render this mode of operat- ing adviseable, and thus concludes; “ From much experience, therefore, of the puncture of the cornea, I have found it to be an operation productive of the slightest possible injury to the eye ; and I would recommend its adoption in extracting the soft cata- ract, after the couching-needle has been employed without suc- cess, upon these grounds, that it generally accomplishes at once, what might require the introduction of the couching-needle se- veral times, and that it is attended with less risk and irritation to the eye, and gives the patient less pain. The fourth section treats of the extraction of membranous ca- taracts through a puncture in the cornea. “ The variety, (says Mr Gibson,) which I shall select for explaining the mode of operation, is a simple membranous cataract, which has not con- tracted adhesions with the iris, but has either existed from birth, or has remained after the extraction or depression of the lenticu- lar cataract.” In such a case,- the point of the cornea-knife, after penetrat- ing the cornea, is to form a small puncture in the membranous cataract, as near as possible to the margin of the irisytowards the external angle of the eye. The knife is then to be quietly with- drawn, and, by the escape of a part of the aqueous humour, the pupil becomes dilated by pressure a tergo, and the pupil in the membranous cataract is sometimes a little enlarged. Through the puncture the small hook is to be passed behind the opake membrane, with its point directed downwards until it reaches the