Mr Wavdrop’^ Sketch of the Life and Writings 6’ after pointing out the erroneous conclusions to which this doc- trine leads, explains the phenomena in a very ingenious and much more satisfactory manner. He found, by experiments, that the serum of the blood had a much greater attraction for the madder than the phosphate of lime, so that when an animal has madder mixed with its food, the blood becomes changed ^ with it, and the superabundant colouring matter is imparted to the phosphate of lime contained in the bones already formed. But as soon as the animal has ceased to receive the madder, and the blood is freed from the colouring matter by the excretions, the serum then exerts its superior attraction, and by degrees en- tirely abstracts it from the phosphate of lime, and the bones re- sume their natural whiteness. In short, the bones are at one time dyed by the colouring matter, and at another bleached by the serum. In December 1803, Mr Gibson read another before the Man- chester Society;—a paper « on the Use of the Sutures in the Bones of Animals,” He wished to prove, that the existence of sutures was entirely subservient to the process of ossification, and that any advantages which may generally have been suppos- ed to be derived from their presence in arresting the progress of a fracture, or in aiding the delivery of the child, were but of se- condary importance. The bones of the body are generally in- creased in their length or extent, not by any uniform extension of their whole substance, but by an addition of bony matter in some particular part. Thus, in the long bones, the process of os- sification extends from the middle towards the extremity of the bone,—whilst in the flat bones of the cranium, this process be- gins at a certain number of determinate points, and the ossifica- tion extends from these in all directions, until a complete encase- ment of bone is formed. It is by the presence of sutures in the cranium, that this mode of ossification can be carried on, and whenever the process is completed, the sutures, being no longer necessary, disappear. Two original essays of Mr Gibson’s were communicated to this Journal. The first of these, On the Common Cause of the Puriform Ophthalmia of New-Born Children,” was published in the 1807, in Volume HI. p. 139. The chief object of this paper was to point out the important observation, that the puriform ophthalmia of children is a disease which the child receives during delivery, while passing through the vagina of the mother affected with fluor albus. He is thus enabled to suggest the probable means of preventing the child from receiving the infection ; and the fact itself bears a striking analogy with what is well established regarding inflammations of