of the late Mr Benjamin Gibson, little disposition to contract, in whatever situation the artificial- pupil may have been made.” After detailing the various states of the eye where the forma- tion of an artificial pupil may be successfully attempted, and il- lustrating the whole with very satisfactory cases of his new method of operating, Mr Gibson has added many judicious and candid remarks on those derangements of the eye, where the operation was fruitless, and which leave little room for the assist- ance of art. Upon the whole, the mode of making an artificial pupil, pro- posed by Mr Gibson, must be considered as possessing many im- portant advantages over all former methods of operating. And in some cases where I have had an opportunity of performing it, the result has been extremely successful. The degree of success, however, from the nature of the cases which require such an operation, must be very various; and though in some favourable instances, it may be undertaken with the hope of very essential benefit, there are many others where the relief to be obtained will be extremely doubtful. In the third section^ Mr Gibson describes a new method of operating in those cases of soft cataract, where, from the age of the patient, the flatness of the cornea, or the hollowness of the orbit, the more eligible and complete operation of extraction can- not be advantageously employed. In such cases, Mr Gibson ad- vised that a couchmg-needle be introduced in the usual manner, and that it should be the aim of the operator to rupture most freely the anterior part of the capsule, and to break down the substance of the cataract, by passing the couching-needle through it in different directions, that the aqueous humour may more readily act on it, and reduce it to a pulpy state. When this has been effected, and the eye has perfectly recovered from the ope- ration, the surface of the cataract will probably have put on a flocculent appearance, and be fit for extraction. When the cataract is in this state, instead of repeating the operation of couching, or of having recourse to the usual mode of extraction, by making an incision of the cornea, Mr G. pro- poses, that merely a puncture be made in that tunic, through which the portions of the diseased lens are to be removed, “ In performing this operation, the patient is to be seated and secured in the same manner as for the extraction of a cataract. The cornea-knife, of the largest size, is then to be introduced through the cornea, towards the outer angle of the eye, at the usual distance from the sclerotic coat. If there be any doubt of the free laceration of the anterior part of the capsule of the lens, point of cornea-knife should ho directed obliquely s through