OliSEaVATlDN'S FOR TUB i The ribs arp Oipn to’.re divide ! into aijtrul tivo !ielt>inf^i and an ear or jaw presented with them, with plenty of sauce. The joints may cither be divided into two eaclir«r pieces inay ite cut from them. The ribs are reckoned the fine.d part: but some people prefer the neck end, between the sliouhlers. Gon.ve.—Cut off the apron in the circular line a, h, c, and f our into the Ixtdy a glass of port wine, and a large tea-S)>ooii- iil of mustard, first ini.Kcd at the siilelxtard. Turn the neck end of the goose towards you. and cut the w hole breast in long slices from one wing to another; but only remove them as you help each ('ers iii, unless the comp.any is so largo as to require the legs likewise. This way gives in'oie prime bks than by making wings. Take oil’ the leg, by putting the fork into the small end of ihe bone, nrcssing it to the body, and having ptissi-d the knife at d, turn the leg Itick, and, if'a young bird, it will easily stnorate. To take olT tlie wing, put your fork into Ihe small end of (lie pinion, and press it cl')se tothelrody; then pul in the kni.'e at d. and divide the joint, t.-'king it in the diicction d, e. Nothing but practice will ena- ble people to hit the joint exactly at the first tri il. When the teg and wing of one side are done, go on to the other; but it Is not often necessary to rut up tlie wliole goose, unless tlie company lie very large. There are two si h- hones by the wing, which may lie rut olf, as likewise the hark ami lower sM - b nics; hut the best pieces are the breast, and iliu thighs after being divided from the diuin sticks. Tfme.—The best way of cutting it up is, to put the point of the knife under the shoulder ai n. and so cut all the way down to the rump, on one side of thehack-b me, in the line a, 6. Do the same on the other side, so that the whole hare will be oi- videil into three parts. Cut the hack into four, which, with the legs, is the part most esteemed. The shoulder must be cut off in a circular line, as c, d, a: lay the pieces neatly on the dish as you cut them. an,, then help the company, giving some pudding and gravy lotverj person.