MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS FOR THE USK OF THE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY, In evpry rank, those deserve the greatest praise, who best acouit themselves of the duties which their station requires. Inoecd, this line of conduct Is not a matter of choice but of necessity, if we would maintain tlie dignity of our character as rational beings. In the variety of female acquirements, though domestic oc- cupations stand not so high in esteem as they formerly did, yet, when neglected, they produce much human misery. There was a time when ladies knew nothing beyond their own family concerns; but, in the present day, there are many who know nothing about them. Each of these extremes should be avoided: but is there no way to unite, in the female character, cultivation of talents and habits of usefulness ? Happily there are still great numbers in every situation, whose example proves that this is possible. Instances may be found of ladies In the higher walks of life, who condescend to examine the ac- counts of their house-steward: and, by overlooking and wisely directing the expenditure of that part of their husband’s in- come which falls under their own inspection, avoid the incon- veniences of eml)arrasse<l circumstances. How much more n«cessary, then, is domestic knowledge in those whose limited fortunes press on their attention considerations of the strictest economy? There ought to be a material difference in the de- gree of care which a person of a large and independent estate bestows upon money concerns, and tnat of a person in confined circumstances: yet both may very commendably employ some portion of their time and thoughts on this subject. The cus- tom of the times tends in some measure to alxilish the distinc- tions of rank; and the education given to young people is nearly the same in all: but though the leisure of the higher may be well devoted to elegant accomplishments, the pursuits of those in a middle line, ii less ornamental, would better se- cure their own happiness and that of others connected with them. We sometimes bring up children in a manner calcula- ted rather to fit them for the station we wish, than that wliich It is likely they will actually possess; and it is in all cases worth the while of parents to consider whether the expec tation or