xliii MISTRBSS OF A FAMILY, will be hardened and useless It was a misUike of old, to think that the whites made cakes and puddings heavy; on the contrary, if beaten long and separately, they contribute greatly to give lightness, are an advantage to paste, and make a pretty dish beaten with fruit, to set in cream, etc. If copper utensils be used in the kitchen, the cook should be charged to be very careful not to let the tin be rubbed off: and to nave them fresh done when the least defect apjiears, and never to put by any soup, gravy, etc. in them, or any metal utensil; stone and earthen vessels should be provided for these purposes, as likewise plenty of common dishes, that the table set may be used to put by cold meat. Tin vessels, it kept damp, soon rust, which causes holes. Fenders, and tin linings of flower-pots, etc, should be painted every year or two. Vegetables soon sour, an<l corrode metals and glazed red ware, by which a strong poLson Ls produced. Some years ago, the death of several gentlemen was occasioned at Salt-hill, by the cook sending a ragout to table, which she had kept from the preceding day in a copjier vessel badly tinned. Vinegar, by its acidity, does the same, the glazing being of lead or arsenic. To cool liquors in hot weather, dip a cloth in cold water, and wrap It round the bottle two or three times, then place it in the sun ; renew the process once or twice. Xhe best way of scalding fruits, or boiling vinegar, is in a stone Jar on a hot iron hearth: or by putting the vessel into a saucepan of water, called a water-bath. If chocolate, coffee, jelly, gruel, bark, etc. be suffered to boil over, the strength is lost. The cook should be encouraged to be careful of coals and cinders j for the latter there is a new contrivance to sift with- out dispersing the dust of the ashes, by means of a covered tin bucket. Small coal, wet^, makes the strongest fire for the back, but must remain untouched until it cake. Cinders, lightly wet. give a great degree of heat, and are better than coal for furnaces, ironing-stoves, and ovens. The cook should be charged to take care of jelly-bags, tapes for the collared things, etc. which if not perfectly scalded, and kept dry, give an unpleasant flavour when next used. Cold water thrown on cast-iron, when hot, will cause it to crack. In the following, and indeed all other receipts, though the quantities may be as accurately directed ,as possible, yet much must be left to the discretion of the person who uses them. The different tastes of people require more or less of the fla- vour of spices, salt, garlic, butter, etc. which can never be or- dered by general rules : and if the cook has not a good taste, and attention to that of her employers, not ail the ingredients which nature and art can furnish, will give exquisite flavour to her dLshes. The proper articles should be at nand, and sh