xli MISTRESS OP A FAMILY. with plate. Tickets of parchment with the family name, num- bered, and specifying what bed it belongs to, should be sewed on each fealher-beif, bolster, pillow, and blanket. Knives, forks, and house-cloths, are often deficient: these accidents miftht be obviated, if an article at the head of every list required the former should be produced whole or broken, and the marked part of the linen, though all the others should be worn out. The inducement to care of glass is in some mea- sure removed, by the increased price given for old-flint glass. —Those who wish for trifle-dishes, butter stands, \c. at a lower charge than cut-glass, may buy them made in moulds, of which there is great variety, that look extremely well, if not placed near the more beautiful articles. The price of starch depends upon that of flour ; the best will keep good in a dry warm room for some years: therefore, when bread is cheap, it may be bought to advantage, and covered close. Sugars being an article of considerable expense in all fa- inilieSf the purchase demands particular attention. 1 he cheapest does not go so far as that more refined ; and there i.s difference even in the degree of sweetness. The white should be chosen that is close, heavy, and shining. The best of blown has a bright gravelly look, and it is often to be bought pure as imported. East India sugars are finer for the price, but not so strong, consequently unfit for wines and sweetmeaU, but do well for common purposes, if go<^ of their kind. Vo prepare white sugar, pounifeil, rolling it with a bottle, and dfting, wastes less than a mortar. . . . Candles made in cool weather are ocst; and when their price, and that of soap, wliich rise and fall together, is likely to be higher, it will be prudent to lay in the stwk of both. This information the chandler can always give; they are better fur keeping eight or ten months, and will not injure for two years, if properly placed in the cool; and there are few articles that better deserve care in buying, and allowing a due quantity of, according to the size of the family. , , u. k. Paper, by Keeping, Improves in quality; and if bought by half or whole reams from large dealers, will be much chraper than purchased by the quire. l‘he surprising increase of the irice of this article may be accounted for by the additional ’uties, and alarger consumption, besides the monopoly of rags; f the latter It is said there is some scarcity, which mieht be bviated if an order were given to a servant m every family, > keep a liag to receive all the waste bits from cuttings- Many well-meaning servants are ignorant of tht best of managing, and thereby waste as much as would maintair. a «mall f^ily, besides causing the mistress of the Imuse much chagrin by their irregularity; and many families, ftom a want jf methou, have the appearance of chance rather than of tegu- Ur system. To avoid this, the following hints may be useful as well as economical s—