xxxiv OBSERVATIONS FOR THB hope of raising their oSspring above their own situalitm be well-founded. The cultivation of the understanding and disposition, how- ever, is not here alluded tOj for a judicious Improvement of both, united to firm and early-taught religious principles, would enable the happy possessor of these advants^cs to act well on all occasions: nor would young ladies find domestic knowledges burthen, or inconsistent with higher attainments, if the rudiments of it were inculcated at a tender age, when activity is so pleasing. If employment be tiresome to a healthy child, the fault must be traced to habits which, from many cau- ses, are not at present favourable to the future conduct of wo- men. It frequently happens, that before impressions of duty are made on the mind, ornamental education commences; and It ever after takes the lead: thus, what should be only the embellishment, becomes the main business of life. Tliere is no opportunity of attaining a knowledge of family manage- ment at school; and, during vacation, all subjects that might interfere with amusement are avoided. When a girl, whose family moves In the higher ranks of life, returns to reside at her father s house after completing her edu- cation, her introduction to the gay world, and a continued course of pleasures, persuade her at once that she was burn to be the ornament of fashionable circles, rather than to stoop (as she would conceive it) to undertake the arrangement of a fa- mily, though by that means she might In various ways aug- ment the satisfaction and comfort of lier parents. On the other hand, persons of an inferior sphere, and especially in the lower order of middling life, are almost always anxious to give their children such advantages of education as themselves did not piissess. Whether their indulgence be productive of the hap- piness so kindly aimed at, must be judged by the effects, which are not very favourable, if what has been taught has not pro- duced humility in herself, and increased gratitude and respect to the authors of her being. Were a young woman brought to relish home society, and the calm delights of agreeable occu- pation, before she entered into the delusive scenes of pleasure, presented by the theatre and other dissipations, it is probable she would soon make a comparison much in favour of the for- mer, especially if restraint did not give to the latter additional relish. If we carry on our observations to married life, we shall find a love of employment to be the source of unnumher^ plea- sures. To attend to the nursing, and at least early instruction of children, and rear a healthy progeny in the ways of piety and usefulness: to preside over the family and regulate the in- come allotted to its maintenance; to make home the sweet re- fuge of a husband fatigued by intercourse with a jarring world: to be his enlightened.companion and the chosen friend of his heart: these, these, are woman’s duties I and delightful ones they are. If haply she be married to a man whose soul can duly esUnrale ner worth, and who will bring his sliare to Uie com-