xxxviii OBS.ERVATIONS FOR THB ranee prevails on necessary subjects, among those wlio are not backward in frivolous ones. It is very necessary for a woman to be informed of thepriecs and goodness of all articles in common use, and of tlie best times, as well as places, for purchasing them. Sheshould also l?e acquainted with the comparative prices of provisions, in order that she may be able to substitute those that are most reasonable, when they will answer as well for others of the same kind, bin which are more costly. A false notion of economy leads many to purchase, as bargains, what is not wanted, and sometimes never is us^. Were this error avoided, more money would remain for other purposes. It is not un- usual among lower dealers to put off a larger quantity of goods, by as.surances that they are advancing in price; and many who suppiy fancy articles are so successful in persuasion, that pur- chasers not unfrequently go far beyond their original intention, even to their own future dkquiet. Some things are better for keeping, and, being in constant consumption, should be laid in accordingly; such as paper, soap, and candles. Of these, more hereafter. To give unvarying rules c.mnot be attempted; for people ought to form their conduct on their circumstances; but it is presumed that a judicious arrangement, according to them, will be found equally advantageous to all. The minutiae of management must 'je regulalM by every one’s fortune and rank ; some ladles, not deficient in either, charge themselves with giving out, once in a month, to a superintending servant, such quantities of household articles as by observation and calculation they know to be sufficient, reserving for their own key the large stock of things usually laid in for very large fa- milies in the country. .Should there be several more visitors than usual, they can easily account for increase of consumption, and vice verm. Such a degree of judgment will Ire respectable even in the eyes of domestics, if they are not interested in the ignorance of Uieir employers; and if they are, their services will not compensate for want of honesty. When young ladies marry, they frequently continue their own maids in the capacity of lumse-keeper,s who, as they may be more attarheil to their Interest than strangers, become very valuable servants. To such, the economical observations in this work will be as useful as the cookery ; and it is recom- mendable in them to be strictly observant of both, which, in the course of a year or two, will make them familiar in the practice. It is much to be feared, that for the waste of many of the good things that God has given for our use, not abuse, the mis- tress and servants of great houses will hereafter be called to a strict accouut. Some part of every person’s fortune should be devoted to charity: by which “ a pious woman will build up her house before God, while she that is foolish (i. e. lends nothing to the Lord,) pulls it down with her h.auds." No one can complain