MisraKss OP a family. xxxvu lative project, or profitable transiftion, leads thoin to form a false estimate of what can be aftbrdetl; and it too often happens that both parties, far from consulting each other, stniander mo- ney in ways that they would even wi^ to forget: whereas mar- riage should be a state of mutual and perfect confidence, and similarity of pursuits, which would secure that happiness it was intended to bestow. There are so many valuable women who excel as wives, that it is a fair inference there would be few extravagant ones, were they consulted by their husbands on subjects that concern ilie mutual interest of both parties. Within the kn wledgeofthe writer of these pages, many families have been reduced to no- verty by the want of ot>enne8s in the man on the subject of his atVairs; and though on these occasions the women were blamed, it has afterwards appeared, that they never were al- lowed a voice of enq^uiry, or suffered to reason u^xm what some- times appeared to tnem imprudent. Many families have owed their pros|>erity full as much to the propriety of female management, as to the knowledge and ac- tivity of the father. The lady of a general officer observed to her man-cook, that her last weekly bill was higher than usual. Some excuse w.is ottWedto which she repTic<l“ Such is the sum I have al- lotted to house-keeping: should it be exceeded one week, the next must repay it. T^he general will have no public day this week.” I'he fault was never repeated. March's ** Family Book-keeper” is a very useful work, and saves much trouble; the various articles of expense being printed, with a column for every day in the year, so that at one view the amount of expenditure on each, and the total sum, may be known. Keady money should be paid for all such things as come not into weekly bills, and even tor them a check is necessary. The best places for purchasing should be attended to. In some ar- ticles a discount of five per cent, is allowed for ready-money m [.ondon and otlier large cities, and those who thus pay are usu- ally best served. Under the idea of biiving cheap, many go t<) new shops, but it is safest to deal with people of establisheil credit, who do not dispose of goods by underselling. To make tradesmen wait For their money, injures them greatly; besides that, a higher price must be paid, and, in long hills, articles never bought are often charged. Perhaps the ir- egularity and failure of payment may have much evil intm- mce on tne price of variotis articles, and may contribute to ine destruction of many families, from the highest to therfowwt. Tlius regularly conductetl, tlie exact stale of money aitairs may be known with ease : for it is delay of occ^ions confusion. A common-place lx>ok should be always at hand, in wliich to enter such hints of useful knowlwge, and other observations as are given by sensible experience people. Want of attention to what is aiivised, or supnosing thing^ too minute to be worth hearing, are the causes why so muen igm>-