367 MESENTERY: MESENTERIC GLANDS striking characteristic of the disease, develops, and is accompanied by the engorgement of the superficial veins already referred to. If the disease is not limited to the glands but has involved the peritoneum, thickened bands may be clearly palpable in addition to the glandu- lar masses. The state of the stools should be carefully investigated at every stage of the disease ; continued abnormal decomposition with evidences of catarrh are prominent features. The diagnosis is, as a rule, easy. The two points of greatest importance, e.g. examination under an anaesthetic and a rectal examina- tion, have been already emphasised. The dis- ease is in many cases remarkably amenable to treatment. The prognosis is good if the condition be early recognised and submitted to appropriate treatment. If the patient only come under observation in the later stages of the disease, when the child's general strength is reduced and the local disease has considerably advanced, the outlook is highly unfavourable. In addition to the danger attendant on the toxines of the tubercle bacilli, there is always the possibility of the supervention of intestinal obstruction which will call for active surgical interference. This danger is naturally more pronounced in cases associated with marked thickening and adhesions of the peritoneum. The prognosis will also vary with the presence or absence of pulmonary complications. The line of treatment is (a) to give a diet suited to the physiological capacity of the child, aided, if need be, in bad cases by judicious use of stimulants—the index here is the state of the appetite, and the state of the dejecta; and {b) endeavour to raise the resisting power of the tissues generally, by general hygienic and tonic treatment; and (c) various local measures, e.g. the use of mercurial and other ointments. Further details as to treatnient will be found in the article on " Lungs, Tuberculosis of" (pp. 56-64), and " Bronchial Glands " (vol. ii.). Mesia,!.—In the middle line, e.g. the mesial fillet, one of the conducting paths in the medulla oblongata (see Physiology, Nervous System, Medulla Oblongata). MesiO-.—In compound words mesio- (Gr. fxecro';, middle) signifies relating to the middle, as in mesio-labial, mesio-dorsal, etc. IVIesitylene. —A hydrocarbon, CgHj (0113)3, produced by the action of sulphuric acid on acetone; it is one of the benzene series and is also called trimethylbenzene ; mesitylenic acid, CgHjgOg, is got from it by oxidation. Mesite (Gr. /xea-LTr]^, go-between) is an old name for acetic ether or acetone, and mesityl is the hypothetical radical of it. Mesmerism.—The system of hypnotism popularised by Mesmer, an Austrian physician {b. 1734, d. 1815), and known also as "animal magnetism " or " Braidism." ^'ee Hypnotism. MeSO-.—In compound words mesa- (Gr. [i€a-o<;, middle) means relating to the middle, or medium (in relation to two extremes); e.g. meso- ajjpe-ndix (the peritoneal fold attached to the appendix vermiformis), mesoarium (the peri- toneal fold of attachment of the ovary in the embryo), mesoarteritis (inflammation of the middle coat of an artery), mesocuneiform (middle cuneiform bone of the tarsus), mesocyst (the occasional double fold of peritoneum attaching the gall-bladder to the liver), mesorectiini (the peritoneal fold attaching the rectum to the sacrum), etc. MeSOblast.—The middle layer of the blastoderm ; from it most of the framework (bones, muscles, connective tissue, etc.) of the body is developed; mesoderm. See Embryo- logy ; FcETUs AND Ovum. MeSOCSeCum.—An occasional double fold of peritoneum attaching the csecum to the posterior abdominal wall. MesOCephaliC. — The term applied to skulls situated, as to characters, midway between the brachycephalic (short heads) and the dolichocephalic (long heads). *S'ee An- thropology. Mesochei lorh i nosch isis. — Mesial fissure of the nose and face, occurring in mon- strosities. See Teratology. Mesocolon.—The fold of peritoneum which attaches the colon to the posterior abdominal wall. Mesoderm.—The mesoblast. Mesog'lia. *S'ee Insanity, Pathology of {Neuroglia). MeSOg^nathion. — The intermaxillary bone. MeSOgnathism. — The condition of skull in which the gnathic or jaw index is between 98 and 103. *S'ee Anthropology. MeSOgOnimuS.—An intestinal fluke found in Egypt and Japan, causing distomiasis. See Parasites {Trematodes). MeSOmetritiS.—Inflammation of the uterus. .See Uterus, Inflammations of. Mesometrium.—The middle or mus- cular coat of the uterus; also, the broad liga- ment. <S'ee Generation, Female Organs of {Uterus); Broad Ligament, Diseases of. MeSOnephrOS.—The Wolffian body or middle kidney (as distinguished from the pro- nephros and the metanephros) of the embryo.