79 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—VASCULAR DISORDERS sounds. Sometimes septic pneumonia develops from inspiration of food or of mucopus from larger bronchi, and some pyrexia may develop. The prognosis is very bad, and the treatment consists in stimulating remedies, special atten- tion being devoted to the flagging heart and to frequently changing the patient's position in bed. This last detail of nursing is of the utmost moment, and should never be neglected by the medical attendant. GEdbma of the Lungs There is almost no pulmonary aff'ection which is so common, at least in a moderate degree, so important to the patient and yet so difficult to explain. Pulmonary oedema may be acute or chronic, or, stated in another way, it may be of active or passive development. A few remarks on the accepted pathology of oedema explains to some extent both the etiology and also the clinical features, and therefore should precede further description. Pathology.—In all acute inflammations of the lungs there must inevitably be, and there is, some exudation of a serous fluid. This varies much in amount; in an ordinary diplococcus pneumonia (Frankel's pneumococcus) it is generally slight, while in streptococcus pneu- monia it is often much more extensive; but there are many conditions in which a very acute oedema occurs where, either the irritant is applied to the air-passages (ether, chloroform, chlorine gas, and so forth), or where a toxin is at work, such as muscarin, and probably the oedema mainly toxic which may occur in cir- rhotic Bright's disease. CEdema is not so commonly the result of backward pressure in the lungs as at first sight we should imagine. It is frequently the case that chronic venous congestion of the lungs exists without much or any oedema, and the description of brown in- duration of the lung does not include oedema as one of the necessary coexistent conditions. Sahli found on post-mortem evidence that oedema was much more infrequent than he ex- pected where conditions producing backward pressure in the lung were at work; and that, where it was present in heart cases with passive congestion of the lungs, it was much less ex- tensive than he expected would have been the case. Instead of being greatest in mitral stenosis, it was best marked where aortic and mitral incompetence were combined. It prob- ably requires one of two additional agencies to bring it about—either damage to vessel walls rendering transudation easy, or else interference with the lymphatics which drain away lymph from the lung. In a healthy lung a very large amount of fluid can be absorbed in a short time. Peiper, in experimenting on rabbits, found that 20 to 25 cubic millimetres of water could be absorbed in a few minutes, and a medium-sized dog absorbed 250 cubic centi- metres in an hour. Blood and egg albumen were absorbed with almost equal ease, and cutting the vagus and sympathetics did not interfere, apparently, with the absorptive power of the lungs. Lastly, Wasbutzky and Peiper found that strychnine was absorbed almost six times as rapidly from the lung as by sub- cutaneous injection. But long-standing passive congestion in pul- monary capillaries may in time bring about the changes in the vessel walls which cause transuda- tion of lymph. Dilatation of the heart and especially of the left ventricle cause well-marked oedema. CEdema may therefore be the result of— (1) Backward pressure, if capillaries undergo the requisite change which renders transudation easy. (2) Toxins, which probably all act on the vessel walls. (3) Interference with absorption by lym- phatics. Experimental evidence is still necessary to solve the problem whether much transudation occurs at all normally. Huchard has pointed out that oedema of the lungs is not common in subacute parenchymatous nephritis, but extremely common in cirrhotic Bright's disease, and therefore he contends that toxins alone are not sufficient, but that peri- aortitis may set up irritation of the cardiac plexvis. He considers the requisite peri-aortitis to be a part of the arterio-sclerosis so commonly associated with cirrhotic disease of the kidneys. Etiology.—Irritants applied to the air-passages, such as chlorine gas, ether, chloroform, and so forth; and chloral, morphia, muscarin, iodine or iodides, and pilocarpine taken internally, may all cause oedema. Poppert, Morten, Saundby, and others have recounted cases of fatal oedema following on the inhalation of ether, and often after considerable periods of time (1 to 30 hours) after the anaesthetic was ad- ministered. In kidney aff"ections, especially cirrhotic disease, it is not uncommon, although, as Huchard has pointed out, the toxins should be even greater in subacute parenchymatous disease, in which it is of much less frequent occurrence. In some fevers, such as influenza, scarlet fever, measles, smallpox, and erysipelas, it occa- sionally occurs, and also, but very exception- ally, where there is acute inflammation of the skin, such as erythema, eczema, and urticaria. Where the air-passages are blocked, as in diphtheria, or where a foreign body has become impacted, oedema may develop along with a septic pneumonia. It is common in heart disease, and, as already mentioned, especially in combined aortic and mitral incompetence, and it may occur acutely