LUNACY 8 sexes of all ages between the two periods dealt with, of 36 per cent of females above sixty-five, and of 39 per cent of males between fifty and sixty-five years. Of interest in connection with age and sex is the social condition as to celibacy, marriage, etc., and the varying liability of the single, married, and widowed at different age periods. Among the total insane for England represented by the quinquennial average for 1894-98 the sex ratio for the single, married, and widowed was respectively 100 : 95, 100 :100, and 100 : 187. The percentage of "single" insane was 42 ; of "married," 44 ; of " widowed," 12-7. At every age period the "single" ratio per 10,000 of population greatly exceeded the " married " or " widowed," and was greater than the other two combined; at the 5th epoch, approximated the other two combined ; at the 6th and 7th epochs, and at the last or 8th, although much greater than either, was less than the two combined. Among the single, represented by a total of 7820 between the ages of twenty-five and forty-four, males pre- ponderated considerably; from forty-five to fifty-four, the sexes approximated; and from fifty-five onwards males again bulked more largely. Among the married insane, between the ages of twenty-five and thirty-four women greatly exceeded men—the ratio being 100:158; from thirty-five to fifty-four the sexes approxi- mated ; and from fifty-five onwards males vastly preponderated—the ratios being for the two periods 100 : 74 and 100 : 52. Among the widowed, between twenty-five and thirty-four, the ratio at this age is practically the same for both sexes; from thirty-five onwards males greatly exceed females by from 3 to 4 per 10,000. Season.—The relation of lunacy to tempera- ture, like that of the seasonal incidence of suicides, illegitimacy, and the commission of sexual crimes, conveys to the psychologist something more than a mere coincidence. The connection will be seen by reference to the monthly fluctuations in the admission rate to asylums of all lunatics other than congenital cases, and of the two chief types of mental disorder, viz., mania and melancholia. Analysing the statistics of a triad average of 17,613 admissions, the monthly mean for May, June, and July exceeds the yearly mean by 10 per cent, and the difference between May the highest and February the lowest is as much as 29 per cent. Six months are below the mean. And the same holds good of admissions for mania and melancholia, being influenced by tempera- ture, heat having apparently the effect of ex- citing, irritating, and unsettling the nervous system. It may be urged that the low ad- mission rate for the cold months may in a measure be due to delay in steps being taken for certification in the less urgent cases. The commission of crimes suggestive of sexual and mental perversion is highest in warm weather and lowest in cold. There are indications like- wise that a connection between illegitimacy, and much of it is identified with mental en- feeblement or an abnormal mental state, and season has been established, the months with the highest rate of illegitimate births, viz., those of January, February, March, and April, implying an increase of such conceptions in April, May, June, and July. Von Oettingen, in his work Moralstatistik, says there was no such increase of legitimate births in the months referred to. The writer in his experience has come across families in which a vein of in- veterate illegitimacy ran through them, the females in the different generations being decidedly weak-minded rather than loose or immoral. Occupation.—Taking the fifty different occu- pations tabulated in the English returns for the quinquenniad 1894-98 contributing their quota to lunacy, at the top of the list are "hucksters, costers, hawkers, etc.," with a ratio of 28 per 10,000 of their class, and next to them, curiously enough, civil servants and medical men, with a ratio of 17 per 10,000. At the other end of the scale, in agreement with popular belief, are to be found farmers, shepherds, gamekeepers, with a ratio of 4*9; miners and persons engaged in heavier kinds of manual labour, 5*1 ; mill and factory workers of both sexes, 4"6 ; laundry-keepers and washer- women, 2"9. Dividing the fifty occupations, guided by ratios per 10,000, into six, in the first, with a ratio ranging from 15'6 to 28, in addition to those already mentioned, are com- mercial travellers ; in the second, with a ratio range of 12 to 14, are sweeps, seamen, chemists, lawyers, and musicians (the living population of each is small); in the third, ratio range being 10 to 11*3, are drapers, innkeepers, hotel servants, hairdressers, clergymen, domestic servants, soldiers, tailors, subordinate bank and insurance employees, accountants, and com- mercial clerks ; in the fourth, with a ratio of 8 to 9"7, actors, carpenters, shoemakers, milliners, printers, bookbinders, dissenting clergymen, canal- and barge-men, police, etc.; in the fifth ratio, of 6 to 7'9, teachers, butchers, trades- people as a whole of both sexes, handicraftsmen generally, carmen, carters, etc. ; in the sixth ratio, 2-9 to 5 per 10,000 mill and factory workers, miners, farmers, shepherds, railway, telegraph, and telephone servants, etc. Com- paring the two quinquenniads, there have been increases in the latter in excess of the population among the following occupations: civil servants, 27 per cent; hucksters, etc., 25 per cent; commercial travellers, 22 per cent; inkeepers of both sexes, 15 and 21 per cent; hotel servants of both sexes, 28 and 15 per cent; printers and bookbinders, 15 and 13