441 MONCESTROUS (subsidence of desire), and of anoestrum (resting period), and this cycle is repeated two or three times in the year. MonoideiSin. — Fixation of the mind upon a single idea, especially as a form of monomania, sometimes the result of hypnotic influence. MonOina,ni£l.—A variety of insanity in which the patient shows mental derangement only on one subject. See Insanity, Nature AND Symptoms (Types of Episodic Insanity, Monomania); Paranoia. Mononucleosis.—An increase in the number of lymphocytes in the blood; lympho- cytosis. Monoparaesthesia. — Parajsthesia limited to one part of the body or to one limb. Monoparesis.—Partial paralysis of one part of the body, e.g. of one limb. Monopiiasia.—A form of aphasia in which the power of speech is very small, being limited to one word or sentence. MonopllObia.—Morbid dread of being alone. See Neurasthenia {Symptomatology). Monophthalmus. — Unilateral absence of the eyeball; monopsia ; monoculus. Monopleg'ia.—Paralysis of one limb, of one set of muscles, or even of one muscle. See Brachial Plexus, Surgical Affections of {Brachial Monoplegia); Brain, Tumours of {Localising Symptoms, Paralysis); Brain, Surgery op {Compression of Brain, Diagnosis); Hypnotism {Therapeutic Uses); Paralysis {In- troduction, Seat of Lesion). Monopsia. See Monophthalmus ; Cyclopia. Monopus or Monopodia. — A teratological type in which one foot is congeni- tally absent; it differs from sympodia in which two feet are fused into one, but it is sometimes (erroneously) used as synonymous with it. Monorchism.—The abnormal state in which only one testicle is present or apparent. See Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Abnor- malities of the Testicles). MonOSOmuS.—A teratological type in which there are two heads and one (fused) body ; according to Taruffi, the Monosomatous terata are those monstrosities in which there is one individual, as distinguished from the poly- somatous or disomatous terata, double monsters, or fused twins. See Teratology. Monospasm.—Spasm localised to one group of muscles, as in contusion of the brain. See Brain, Surgery of {Compression, Diagnosis). Monostoma LentiS.—/See Parasites {Helminths, Trematodes). Monotal.—The ethyl glycolic acid ester of guaiacol, suggested as a substitute for guaiacol in chronic gout, sciatica, and neuralgia; it is applied externally to the affected part. Monro, Foramen of. See Embryo- logy, Human {Fourth Week, Development of Brain). Monsel'S Solution.— The Liquor Ferri Subsulphatis of the U.S. Pharmacopoeia, often used as a styptic ; the subsulphate of iron, Fe^0(S04)g, is sometimes called Alonsel's Salt. Monsters and Monstrosities.— See Teratology ; Labour, Precipitate and Pro- longed {Faults in the Passenger, Monstrosities ; Hermaphroditism. Monstriparity. — The tendency ob- served in some women to give birth to monsters. Monsummano. See Balneology {Italy, Thermal Waters). Mons Veneris. See Generation, Female Organs of {External Generative Oi'gans). Montana. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Switzerland). Mont Boron. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Riviera). Mont Dore. See Mineral Waters {Alkaline). Montecatini. See Balneology {Italy, Miiriated Waters). Montegrgfia's Dislocation. —That form of hip-joint dislocation in which the head of the femur is found near the anterior superior iliac spine, and the limb is rotated outwards. Monteggia was born in 1762 and died in 1815. See Hip-Joint, Injuries of {Secondary Disloca- tions. Montemayor y Bejar. See Balneo- logy {Spain and Portugal). Montery. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {America, Southern California). Montgromery's Glands or Tu- bercles. — Distended sebaceous glands in the areola round the nipple of the breast, very evident in pregnancy as whitish spots. See Pregnancy, Physiology {Local Changes, Mam- mce); Mammary Gland, Diseases of {Anatomical Considerations, Glands of Montgomery) ; Puer- perium. Pathology {Affections of Areola of Breast, Anoinalies). Monthly Sickness. See Menstrua- tion and its Disorders,