MICRO-ORGANISMS 397 be proved that Blastomycetes can produce epithelial proliferation, in other words, that they stand in any etiological relationship with cancerous processes. Pianese, Dean, and many others consider the cancer-bodies to be due to degenerative changes. There are things which speak for and against the parasitic theory of cancer; it remains still to be proved that it is due to a parasitic micro-organism. Out of a total number of 41 species of Oidium, isolated and studied by Cao, 28 proved to be pathogenic for animals. Streptothrices are pathogenic agents in actino- mycosis and Madura-foot disease, whilst specific bacteria have been proved to be the cause of anthrax, tuberculosis, diphtheria, pneumonia, glanders, gonorrhoea, typhoid, tetanus, cholera, influenza, plague, Malta fever, cerebro-spinal fever, malignant oedema, suppurative processes, erysipelas, rhinoscleroma, soft sore, leprosy, and relapsing fever, etc. MicropatholOgy.—The study of mi- crobes in relation to disease, or the study of minute or microscopic pathological changes. Micropha.g'e.—A small phagocytic cell (polynuclear). See Immunity. Micropha,ki£l.—Abnormal smallness of the crystalline lens of the eye. See Lens, Crystalline [Micraphakia). Microphone. — An instrument for making feeble sounds louder and more easily heard; it has been utilised in the practice of i auscultation, etc. ^ Microphthalmos.—As the term indi- cates, this is a condition characterised by small size of the eyes. It is the antithesis of mega- lophthalmos, in which the eyeballs are un- ' naturally large. As might be expected, in the one case the eyes appear to be small, somewhat ' flat, and retracted in the sockets, while in the other they are unduly prominent, an excessive I amount of sclera is visible, and the condition j suggests exophthalmic goitre. As a rule, the : diminution or enlargement is shared by all the i coats of the eye. Thus we have the terms microcornea, macrocornea, etc. The pathology of these conditions is unknown. Vision may be normal, but is not unusually slightly defective. No treatment is called for. Micropsia.—An abnormal state of vision in which objects appear to be smaller than they really are. See Choroid, Diseases of {Plastic Choroiditis, Symptoms); Hysteria (Sensory Disorders, Ocular). Micropyle.—An aperture in the vitel- line membrane of an ovum through which a spermatozoon is supposed to pass in fertilisa- tion. Microscope, The. Objectives ...... 397 The Ocular 398 Focussing Adjust7)ients, etc. . . . 398 Illuminating Apparatus .... 398 Accessory Fittings ..... 399 The Use of the Microscope . . .399 See also Blood (Examination); Post-mortem Methods {Examination of Tissues); etc. Microscopes are of two kinds, simple and com- pound. The compound microscope consists essentially of two lenses—one, the object glass, forms an enlarged, inverted, and reversed image of the object; whilst the second lens, termed the eye-piece, magnifies this image and is placed between it and the eye of the observer. In all modern microscopes the object glass is replaced by a combination of lens known as the ob- jective, and the eye glass is represented by a combination of lenses termed the ocular. The objective and ocular are mounted at the ends of a tube which can be made to recede from or approach a square or rounded stage which has a central aperture. Beneath the stage is the illuminating apparatus. This con- sists of a mirror to reflect rays of light upwards through the opening in the stage, and on to an object lying on the latter. One side of this mirror is a concave, and the other a plane mirror. Attached to most microscopes there is also a system of lenses, termed a condensor, placed between the mirror and the stage—the condensor serving to focus on the object the rays of light proceeding from the mirror. The whole instrument is supported on a foot or base which is either of horse-shoe form, as in most Continental models, or in the form of a tripod—a microscope with the latter being the more rigid instrument. The foot should be jointed so that the microscope may be inclined to any angle. Objectives.—Each consists of a combination of lenses mounted in a tube, the upper end of which can be connected by means of a screw thread to the lower end of the tube of the microscope. Formerly there were several diff'erent forms of screw thread, but now all makers have adopted the English thread, or what is termed the Society's screw thread. There are two classes of objectives—dry and immersion, and each have their own uses. In dry objectives, the lens nearest the object—the frontal—remains separated by air from the object or the cover-glass over it. In the case of an immersion objective, a drop of liquid is interposed between the frontal and the cover- glass, and the liquid employed should have a refractive index the same as, or approaching as closely as possible to, that of the glass forming the frontal. With a water-immersion objective a drop of distilled water, which has a refractive index of 1*33, is used; with a homogeneous