MEDICINE, HISTORY OF 277 firmation in the discovery or proof of the cir- culation of the blood by Harvey. Former anatomists had observed the action of the heart and the movement of the blood, but fancied that the heart distributed two kinds of blood to every part of the body ; they were, indeed, so blinded by dogma and tradition that they failed to see the most obvious facts for themselves, as when Fabricius, under whom Harvey had studied anatomy, described the valves in the veins without perceiving the incompatibility of their presence with an outward flow of the blood. Harvey himself, on the other hand, had recourse to direct and patient experimentation on living animals of every kind, and satisfied himself of the cii'culation of the blood; but without the aid of the microscope he could not demonstrate the way in which the blood passed from the arterial to the venous system. It was, however, long before the anatomical, physiological, and pathological discoveries, to which the experimental method led in course of time, had attained such certainty and complete- ness as to make them available in practical medicine; and the more judicious physicians of the day, rightly avoiding the fatal course of theorising as to the nature of the vital processes in health and disease, confined their practice, in the true Hippocratic spirit, to ob- servation and experience, aware of the danger of acting on such crude and imperfect knowledge of the laws of life as they then possessed. Two schools, however, the iatro-physical and iatro- chemical, did attempt premature efforts in these directions: the former, led by Borelli and in- cluding the eminent anatomists Baglivi and Steno, endeavoured to explain all vital processes and phenomena on physical, in fact mechanical, principles. They rightly recognised the three orders of levers in the osseous and muscular mechanism, and the less obvious influence of blood pressure or arterial tension on secretion, elimination, and the nutrition of the tissues; but they resolved digestion into a process of trituration like that in the gizzard of a bird. The iatro-chemical school founded by Francis de la Bois or Boe, commonly known by his Latinised name of Sylvius, professor at Leyden, though unable to entirely free themselves from tradition, took a much higher stand. Sylvius eagerly accepted Harvey's discovery of the circulation and studied its conditions. He fully availed himself of " chemical" remedies in addition to the Galenical and recognised the influence of variations in blood pressure, con- gestion, etc.; but he sought the immediate cause of most morbid phenomena in the re- action, excessive alkalinity or acidity of the fluids of the body, instead of the normal and abnormal " mixtures" of humoral hypothesis. He looked on digestion as a fermentation (which indeed it is), the agent being an enzyme— not microbial and irregular fermentations as producing changes in the chyme and blood, which he called " acridities." In nervous diseases he saw disturbances of the "vital spirits," a term which, though inherited from ancient and mediaeval medicine, represented what we know as nerve currents or force. These views found most favour in Holland and Germany, but were less well received in France and Italy, being opposed alike by the adherents of the old medi- cine and by the rival school of iatro-physicists. In England they found a strong exponent in Willis. He studied the reactions of the urine and was the first to detect the presence of sugar in diabetes, and also paid much attention to nervous diseases and the anatomy, especially as regards the blood supply, of the brain. But yielding to the speculative tendency of the Paracelsians, he regarded all bodies, inorganic and organic, as consisting of the three " ele- ments," spirit, sulphur, and salt, though unable to define the nature or properties of the first of these, the presence of which was a necessary condition of vital phenomena. " Fermentation," by which he explained all chemical processes in the living body, he ascribed to " intestine move- ments of particles," no doubt meaning thereby molecular changes. Though Bacon had given a new direction to scientific thought for all time, and Harvey had made the first great discovery in physiology, it cannot be said that any British physician before Sydenham (1624-1639) had produced a sensible impression on medical practice in general. Educated at Oxford and Montpellier, he has been well styled the English Hippocrates, and he acknowledged that he took the father of medicine as his exemplar. Like him he insisted on the paramount importance of studying the " natural history of disease " and " epidemic con- stitution," or the influence of climate, seasons, and weather. He was a firm believer in the vis medicatrix naturce, and went so far as to main- tain that what is called disease was often but the results of the efforts of nature to eliminate some poisonous matters from the system. He held that it was frequently possible to treat disease without a clear apprehension of its causes, and that in the imperfect state of our knowledge premature conclusions and unproved assumptions were worse than useless. Yet his appi'eciation of etiology proves that he was no mere empiric, though he never permitted his hypotheses to bias his judgment when a coin-se of treatment had been justified by experience of results. He also recognised the specific natui-e of certain diseases and the specific action of some drugs, as cinchona on agues. Sydenham's teaching, which may be described as a " rational empiricism," made a profound impression on the practice of medicine, not only in this country, but on the Continent. His influence was, however, exerted only through his published works, for the conditions of medical