MEDICINE, HISTORY OF 271 repugnance to dissecting the human body, and we find that not only were necropsies performed for verifying the cause of death, but at a later period practical anatomy was taught in the medical schools. Homer, Jeremiah, and Pliny refer to the wealth of the Egyptian materia medica; and we learn from Herodotus, Pliny, and Ammianus that Egyptian physicians were held in high repute in the East and West, and students resorted to Alexandria from Greece and Rome. Magic and charms seem to have had little, if any, place in their practice, for votive offerings were rather expressions of the need for the divine blessing on the means employed. Midwifery was practised chiefly, but not ex- clusively, by women, while to the great import- ance attached to personal and public hygiene we may ascribe the excellent sanitary regulations enjoined in the Mosaic code. In the Hebrew scriptures we read much of diseases, but the allusions to physicians are few, and of surgical operations, except the rite of circumcision, there is no mention. Wounds were "bound up" and dressed with "balm of Gilead," an antiseptic oleoresin like our Friars' balsam. Medicine seems to have been practised chiefly by the Levites as the most learned and leisured class, but it did not partake of a religious character and was wholly free from any taint of magic, for the reference of cases of suspected leprosy to the priest seems to have been for the purpose of diagnosis from other cutaneous diseases, and the exhibition of the brazen serpent was purely symbolical and exceptional; while by a people imbued with the theocratic idea and a conscious dependence on a higher power, whose unseen hand was most nearly felt in the havoc created by epidemic diseases that could not be otherwise explained, the "pestilence that walketh in darkness " was ascribed to the sword of the " destroying angel." The physicians to whom King Asa " sought instead of to the Lord " were, doubtless, aliens practising magical rites. The apocryphal Book of Ecclesiasticus, of post- Babylonian date, devotes chapter xxxviii. 1-15, to the praise of the physician and the sacredness of his work. We see in the New Testament the influence of the Babylonish demonology on the Jewish mind in the centuries subsequent to the captivity in the reference, not only of epilepsy and other nervous and mental diseases, but even of de- formities to Satanic agency and the possession of the person by demons. We note the inability of physicians to relieve a case of persistent metrorrhagia; and we read of one " beloved physician," St. Luke, the companion of St. Paul, who was, like the great apostle, a man of literary and general culture, superior to that of the other founders of the Church except perhaps the eloquent preacher ApoUos of Alexandria. It would be useless, were it possible, to discuss in this place the medicine of India and China, which has no direct interest to us. Influence of Greece.—Greece was the birth- place of medicine as we know it in Europe, and for many centuries the teacher of the western world. In the Homeric poems, a narrative mostly of wars, the treatment of wounds is naturally the more conspicuous ; but if we may credit Archinus, a later writer, while Machaon, one of the sons of Asclepius, himself the son of a Thessalian king, concerned himself with surgery, his brother Podalirius gave his attention to "the cure of ills that were invisible to the eye and the relief of incurable disease"—in other words, to medicine. Though for a long time the chief practitioners of medicine were, or claimed to be, the descendants of Asclepius, and his temples were frequented by chronic sufferers, the priests were not physicians, and there is no trace whatever of the association of medicine with religion. But of the nature of their practice and the principles or notions on which it was based, we are wholly ignorant. For us the his- tory of medicine as a science and a profession begins with the age of Pericles, 450-440 years before the Christian era. Hippocrates, justly recognised as the father of medicine, was as truly a representative of Greek intellect as any of his contemporaries, the great historians, philosophers, dramatists, artists, and soldiers of the golden age of Greece. He was a voluminous writer ; but of his reputed works some appear to be those of his pupils at the school of Cos, and a few to have emanated from that of Cnidus, which differed from his teaching in some respects. The distinctive characters of his writings were those of the man himself, a high and noble ideal of the mission of the physician, free from the least trace of mysticism, super- stition, or mercenary motives, as exhibited in the famous "Oath of Hippocrates," which he administered to each of his disciples on leaving the school; his belief in the vis rnedicatrix naturce, and that the phenomena of disease, equally with those of life, were subject to natural laws which could be known by obser- vation, to which, with the careful record and interpretation of symptoms—in fact, what we now know as clinical study—he attached the utmost importance, bequeathing to posterity a mass of "histories,"both of individual cases and of epidemics of disease. He held that the duty of the physician was to avoid all that might hinder, and to assist in every way in his power the efforts of nature towards recovery, and, influenced by the Pythagorean doctrine of numbers, he laid undue stress on that of supposed "critical days." While, however, anatomy and physiology were as yet unknown, no rational pathology was possible, and his speculations as to the causes of disease took the form of what was subsequently described as the humoural pathology, and maintained its hold