MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS 338 the canal of the cervix dilates. At the end of the period the uterus has shrunk and become pale and limp. Changes in the Mucosa. — There are great differences of opinion as to the actual changes that occur in normal menstruation. 1. Sir John Williams held that, in conse- quence of hsemorrhage into and fatty degenera- tion of the deepest layer of the mucosa, the whole of the endometrium was shed down to the muscular layer, and that a new mucosa was developed from the bases of the uterine glands. This view was based on autopsies made on patients dying from acute fever, and is now discredited. 2. Engelmann taiight that in consequence of fatty degeneration of the superficial layer of the mucosa this alone was shed, the deeper layer remaining. Pfluger and Tait insisted that a physiological freshening of the mucosa—the removal of its surface epithelium—was necessary for the im- plantation of a fertilised ovum. 3. Bland Sutton examined a number of hiiman uteri before, during, and after men- struation, and found (a) dilatation of the capillaries causing swelling of the mucosa; (6) rupture of some of the capillaries, the blood oozing into the stroma and into the cavity of the uterus; (c) shedding of only small and quite superficial portions of the epithelium; {d) no fatty degeneration. He also examined the uteri of menstruating baboons and Macaque monkeys, and found con- gestion and haemorrhage, but no shedding of the epithelium. Heape's researches on another monkey (Semno- pithecus Entellus) confirm Sutton's views, viz., that menstriiation consists in congestion, haemor- rhage, and shedding of part only of the lining epithelium and subepithelial stroma. 4. Arthur Johnstone's view is that the endo- metrium is an adenoid gland, that the menstrual discharge takes the place of the lymph stream, and washes away periodically those corpuscles which are too old to form decidual tissue. He holds that the uterine epithelium alone is shed, but the whole mucosa is not exfoliated. Relation to Ovulation. — Until very recent years menstruation was thought to be directly, or indirectly, brought about by the process of ovulation. Whilst most authorities held this view, there was nmch difference of opinion as to the precise relationship of the two phenomena. Once a month, in one or other ovary, a Graafian follicle was supposed to ripen and burst, and discharge its contained ovixm into the peritoneum, whence it was carried down the Fallopian tube into the uterus. Some held that this maturation of the follicle reflexly brought about a general turgescence of the internal genitals, and that the rupture of the follicle determined the onset of menstruation. Others thought that the ovum, rather than the Graafian follicle, was the essential cause; that each month an ovum was carried into the uterus, and (whether fertilised or not) directly stimu- lated the mucosa to active growth and increased vascularity. In the event of conception occur- ring the mucous membrane went on growing, and formed the decidua of pregnancy. But if impregnation failed to occur the ovum died, and this brought about a disintegration of the decidua and the phenomena of menstruation. A menstrual period was, according to this view, the abortion of an unfertilised ovum with its decidua—a missed pregnancy, in fact. It has, however, been shown that ovulation may and does take place independently of and in the absence of menstruation, and menstrua- tion may continue regularly and profusely after the complete removal of both ovaries. Graafian follicles ripen and burst long before puberty— even in early infancy—and they may continue to do so long after the menopause. Moreover, the maturation of the follicle is by no means coincident with any one phase of menstruation. The observations of Lawson Tait, Annie Clark, and others, have shown that ripe follicles may be found at any time during the period or during the intermenstrual interval. Ovulation goes on during pregnancy, during lactation, and in certain pathological states (such as anaemia) when menstruation is in abeyance. Some women never menstruate and yet ovulate (as is proved by their becoming pregnant). In certain pseudo-hermaphrodites (shown to possess uteri and testes, but not ovaries) menstruation has been observed. For these and other reasons the plausible fascinating ovular theory of men- struation is now generally discarded. At the same time, it is going too far to say that the ovaries have no influence at all on the uterus. There is undoubtedly a most intimate and subtle sympathy between them. It is probable that changes in the ovaries influence the uterus reflexly through the nervous system, and it is possible that the ovaries add to the blood cir- culating through them some peculiar product of their metabolism, and this "internal secre- tion " may powerfully modify the uterine functions. Certain it is, that many lesions of the ovary are associated with painful, profuse, or suppressed menstruation, and that complete removal of both ovaries brings about permanent cessation of the periods in 95 per cent of the cases, whilst they continue unaltered if only a portion of one ovary be left. Relation to the CEstrus.—In many of the lower animals the females at certain intervals pass into a state of sexual activity which is called the "oestrus" or "rut." In popular language the animal is said to be " in heat." The uterus and vagina become swollen and congested, and pour out an increased quantity of mucus sometimes tinged with blood. The