234 MEDIASTINUM, THE As regards other etiological factors, such as blows and exposure to cold, there is no evidence that they have any effect in starting the disease, though they may possibly have been the means of directing attention to it. Locality seems to exercise considerable influ- ence on the occurrence of mediastinal growths ; in some parts they are decidedly rare, and in others they are common. According to Hesse, 75 per cent of the miners engaged in the mines of the Schneeberg die from " cancer of the lung " spreading from the root. Microscopical examina- tion showed that the growths were lympho- sarcomatous. Dr. Steven considers fibroma as a rheumatic manifestation. With respect to the starting-point of the growth it may spring from any of the structures contained in the chest, e.g. the bronchial glands, remains of thymus, fat, or connective tissue, oesophagus, trachea, lung, pleura, pericardium, or periosteum of sternum or ribs. There seems to be no tendency for one side of the chest to be affected more frequently than the other. Morbid Anatomy and Pathology.—Though for the sake of convenience all the intrathoracic growths have been grouped together, it must be remembered that the tumours of the medi- astinum, lung, and pleura have certain more or less well-defined characteristics. Owing to the difficulty which frequently exists in recognising the primary seat of the disease, it may be difficult to decide in which region the growth started, and many cases have doubtless been recorded as examples of primary malignant disease, whereas they were of secondary origin. Tumours of the mediastiniun, usually lympho- sarcomata, are more frequently primary than those of the other regions, about one-half be- longing to this category. By lympho-sarcoma is meant a round-celled sarcoma, taking its origin from the lymphatic glands of the chest. Dr. Steven points out that the term lymphadenoma (Hodgkin's disease), often used to designate this growth, is not applicable to a tumour which may be regarded as essentially a local manifes- tation, whether liable to metastasis or not, and in which the constitutional conditions associated with Hodgkin's disease are absent. When a mediastinal tumour occuis in connection with Hodgkin's disease it represents a comparatively insignificant part of the whole affection. Lym- pho-sarcomatous tumours of the mediastinum sometimes attain an enormous size, weighing many pounds. As the new growth invades the normal tissues it produces little or no change in them; it infiltrates them, and they gradually disappear. Ulceration of blood-vessels or tissues does not as a rule occur, nor is bone so frequently eroded as is the case of aneurysm. Secondary sarcoma of the mediastinum is of comparatively little importance; when it does occur it has probably spread from the lung. Primary cancer of the mediastinum is un- common, and is usually too small to give rise to any definite physical signs. It almost always originates in the posterior mediastinum in con- nection with the trachea, bronchi, or oesophagus. Epithelioma (squamous-celled carcinoma) is the usual form. Secondary cancer of the medi- astinum is also rare; this region is usually affected by continuity rather than by metastasis. Cancer is the most freqiient of primary growths of the lung. When affecting the body of the lung it usually occurs as a single mass, which may very exceptionally be of considerable size, sometimes weighing as much as from six to nine pounds; nodules may form in the lung- due to secondary infection from the main growth. Cancer affecting the body of the lung is of the soft or encephaloid variety of spheroidal-celled carcinoma. Cancer, however, most commonly starts from the root of the lung, hence the condition is often overlooked until far advanced. Cancer starting from the root of the lung usually contains much fibrous tissue, and, according to Coats, presents in many cases the features of the cylinder-celled epithelioma. Owing to the fibrosis met with in these cases the lung on the affected side is usually contracted. Secondary cancer of the lung is much more frequent than primary cancer. The nodviles scattered through the lung are sometimes so small that they suggest miliary tuberculosis. The secondary growths resemble in their struc- ture the primary tumour. In its growth cancer invades and destroys the tissues with which it comes in contact, and may even ulcerate through the wall of the aorta. If a main bronchus be involved by the growth the hing may become consolidated and riddled with small cavities which are filled with pus, thus resembling a tuberculous lung, and empyema may also occur. Cavitation is sometimes brought about by the degeneration and breaking down of cancerous masses. Gangrene of the lung, due to implica- tion of the pulmonary plexus in the cancerous growth rather than to direct pressure, is one of the modes of termination. Cancer starting in the lung may spread in various directions to the pleurse and pericardium, and may even involve the heart. Erosion of the vertebrae may occur, but the paraplegia met with in malignant disease of the lung is generally due to secondary deposit in the spinal canal. Primary sarcoma of the lung is very much less common than primary cancer; when the lung is affected it is usually by direct extension from lympho-sarcoma of the mediastinal glands, or as a secondary deposit. Secondary sar- coma occurs in the form of multiple tumours resembling in structure the primary growth. Secondary deposits within the chest are more frequently sarcomatous than cancerous. Endothelioma is the most common form of primary cancer of the pleura ; it presents the