305 MENINGES EASES OF Nasal Orifices {Tumours, Operative Treatment, Sequelce); Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflammation {Complications); Peritoneum, Tuberculous Peritonitis {Complications); Pneumonia, Clinical {Complications, etc.) ; Pulse {Pulse in Tubercular Meningitis); Spina Bifida ; Spinal Cord {Medical) ; Spinal Cord {Surgical); Syphilis {In Children, Nervous System); Teeth {Oral Sepsis, Cause of Menin- gitis) ; Typhoid Fever {Complications); Typhus Fever {Diagnosis); Unconsciousness {Types); Visceral Pain {Meningitis). Meningfes of the Cerebrum. Anatomy and Physiology . . . 305 Vascular Disturbances— 1. Hyperemia. .... 307 2. Haemorrhage .... 307 Hoematoma of the Dura Mater . 308 3. Thrombosis of Veins and Sin- uses. ..... 309 Inflammations— 1. Pachymeningitis. . . . 309 {a) External .... 309 (6) Internal . . . .310 2. Leptomeningitis . . . .310 {a) Acute Simple Meningitis {Purulent Meningitis) . . 310 (6) Chronic Leptomeningitis . 313 3. Syphilitic Meningitis (or Men- ingo-Encephalitis) . . .313 Tumours 315 Minor Conditions . . . . .316 Anatomy and Physiology.—Anatomically, three membranes are usually described — the dura mater, arachnoid, and pia mater. Even on anatomical grounds, it is extremely doubtful whether the last two should be considered dis- tinct membranes; and certainly, from the clinical and pathological points of views, they are not separable, as they always suffer together in disease. The dura mater forms the internal periosteum of the cranial bones. In adults it requires but little force to detach it from the inner surface of the skull, except at the base; morbid ad- hesion of the dura to the skull is very common in the insane. The dura is composed of dense fibrous tissue, lined on its inner surface by a layer of endo- thelium. The fibrous tissue is usually described as divisible into two layers, an outer and inner, the fibres of which run in different directions; this is true, at least, where the dura encloses its sinuses and where the cranial nerves pass through it. It seems probable that elastic fibres, which certainly are present in large numbers in the spinal dura, do not occur in the cerebral dura (Sappey). The dura sends into the cavity of the skull the three well-known processes, viz., the faLv cerebri between the cerebral hemispheres, the VOL. VI tentorium cerebelli between the upper surface of the cerebellum and the under surface of the occipital lobe, and the falx cerebelli between the cerebellar hemispheres; it also sends out pro- cesses as sheaths to the cranial nerves. The great sinuses enclosed in the dura, which receive the venous blood from the cerebrum, have already been considered, as well as the parts of the brain served by each sinus {vide "Brain, Physiology of," vol. i. p. 463). The main arteries of the dura lie towards its outer aspect, the veins near its centre. The great artery is the middle meningeal, a branch of the internal maxillary : it supplies practically the whole of the cerebral dura except its extreme anterior part (which is supplied by the anterior meningeal artery from the ophthalmic), and the dura of the posterior fossa (which is supplied by the posterior meningeal artery from the vertebral). The middle meningeal artery, which lies in the well-known grooves on the inner surface of the cranial bones, is much the most common source of traumatic intracranial hsemorrhage, especially in its anterior branch: the lines on the skull for finding it are there- fore of great importance {vide " Brain, Surgery of," vol. i. pp. 504, 505). The connections of the veins of the dura with those of the skull or of structures outside it deserve special attention as being one of the paths by which infective processes are conveyed from without, and cause various septic condi- tions, especially sinus-thrombosis. The chief ones are the mastoid emissary vein, passing through the mastoid foramen and connecting the mucosa of the middle ear with the lateral sinus; the parietal emissary vein, passing through the parietal foramen and connecting the superior longitudinal sinus with the veins of the scalp; the ophthalmic veins, from the eye and orbit, passing through the sphenoidal fissure into the cavernous sinus. The capillaries of the dura lie chiefly at the outer and inner aspects of the membrane. From the valuable researches of Ford Robertson, it appears that there is a great network of remarkably large capillaries just underneath the surface endothelium, and that they are surrounded by channels, evidently lymph- channels—the perivascular canals of the dura— with walls lined by endothelial cells. Fluid readily finds its way from the subdural space into these canals, which discharge into the veins of the skull and dura ; and Ford Robertson con- cludes that these canals form one, perhaps the chief path by which the cerebro-spinal fluid, filtering through from the subarachnoid spaces into the subdural space, is carried into the general circulation. According to the same writer, the endothelial cells of the dura, both those on its inner surface and those lining the perivascular canals, are very liable to chronic proliferative and degenerative changes in cases of