389 MICRO-ORGANISMS a membrane and colourless protoplasm. The membrane is composed of a substance allied to cellulose, whilst the protoplasm usually contains numerous minute nuclei, oil-drops, pigment, vacuoles, crystals of oxalate of potash, but no starch. Through the growth of the distal extremity of the cell, threads (hyphse or mycelia), usually composed of transversely segmented cells, are formed. In Mucor the whole mycelial mass is composed of a tangled and branched unsegmented tube until the occurrence of fructification. Branching may be dichotomous or irregular. Adjacent threads of a mycelium may become fused. In the laboratory mycelial masses are often observed growing in the deeper layers of media. The mycelial threads have the power of penetrating into dead or living animal and vegetable tissues, boring their way into or between the cells, frequently the cell itself being penetrated by delicate processes of mycelium known as haustoria. Under certain conditions the my- celium forms sclerotia or resting bodies, which on cross-section are seen to be composed of a cortical layer composed of terminal cells covered with a dark-coloured membrane, and containing a central mass composed of densely-tangled hyphse. Multiplication occurs either sexually or asexually. The asexual process consists in the formation of endospores within a sporangium (Mucor) or conidia formed by direct cleavage of the extremity of the fruit-bearing thread which arises from the mycelium (Penicillium). En- dospores are formed directly out of the plasma of the sporangial cell. Where the sporangia are club-shaped they are termed asci, and the spores ascospores. Through agglomerations of asci certain forms give rise to bottle-shaped bodies termed perithecia, or beaker - shaped bodies termed apothecia, which contain the asci. The spores are liberated or ejaculated through deliquescence or rupture of the sporan- gial wall. Conidia may be round, oval, spindle- shaped, or rod-like, and are usually developed terminally or laterally from conidia-bearers, rarely directly from hyphse. They are often supported on delicate stems termed sterigmse. Single or numerous processes bearing conidia may be formed, or a series of conidia may be given off in succession from the same process. When the number of conidia-bearers and conidia is uniform we speak of a basidium (Basidio- mycetes). The conidia drop oil' through wither- ing of the sterigmse, through fission, or they are thrown off forcibly through bursting of the conidia-bearer beneath the conidia, the expelled fluid propelling the conidia to a distance. In the Phycomycetes naked cells bearing two cilia, and consequently motile (swarm-spores), are formed in the sporangia, which swell up and liberate their contents into the water. These spores swim about, and after a time they settle down, develop a membrane, and sprout. In some Asco- and Basidio-mycetes pleomorphism exists with regard to spore-formation. Some forms develop only upon a single host, others require two hosts. Certain moulds at times form peculiar bodies termed pyknidse, consist- ing of a hollow structure containing numei-ous conidia-bearers, whose conidia either sprout and form a mycelium, or serve directly as mother- cells for fresh spores. Sexual development occurs either directly through copulation of two swollen mycelial ex- tremities coming in contact and fusing, whereby they give rise to a zygospore, or through the formation of a male element (antheridium), which grows out of the hypha, and, coming in contact with the female element (oogonium) which appears as a swelling of the mycelium, sends a process into it, whereby it becomes fertilised, giving rise to an oospore which be- comes surrounded with a membi'ane of cellu- lose. Prior to sending this process into the oogonium the antheridium becomes separated from its hypha by a cellular partition. Blastomycetes (Yeasts) The yeasts occur as minute, round, or oval cells, which are larger than the bacteria, and multiply by budding, the buds springing from any part of the mother-cell, growing in size, and in turn giving rise to buds. Yeasts do not possess chlorophyll. The cells may become separated or remain adherent to one another, and they may be differentiated into an outer double-contoured membrane containing plasma including vacuoles, droplets of fat, and granules. Nuclei have been demonstrated in some species. Certain yeasts form chains in old cultures, and when exposed to the air, the cells being elongated and remaining coherent (Mycoderma cerevisise and M. vini). It is claimed by some that some yeasts form a true mycelium (Torula), whilst in certain cases a yeast-like growth has been observed to occur in moulds. For this reason Brefeld has included the yeasts under the Hyphomycetes, but Hansen objects to this on the ground that nearly all the yeasts possessing industrial importance produce spores and rarely mycelia, for which reason he gives this group the generic name of Saccharomyces. According to Cao (1900), it appears certain that many of the organisms claimed to have been Blasto- mycetes truly belong to the genus Oidium. Oidium albicans (formerly called Monilia Candida, and often taken for Saccharomycetes), the cause of "thrush," is a case in point. The members of this genus hold an intermediary position between the Hyphomycetes and Blastomycetes, in that they form a true mycelium like the former and multiply like the latter. Cao denies that true yeasts form a mycelium. Besides budding, certain yeasts multiply through spore- formation. As Hansen has shown, sporulation may often be observed in yeasts which are