81 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—VASCULAR DISORDERS tard have been added, are all useful methods of treatment. Saline purgatives, given in concentrated form, probably answer the purpose of hydragogue catharsis most effectively; and pilocarpine in the oedema of Bright's disease should be ad- ministered hypodermically to ^ grain). The author has seen in more than one case of urseraia, pilocarpine bring about acute oedema of the lungs which it is so often given to relieve ; but when a fatal result is impending it is certainly worth a trial, although it might be delayed until other remedies had failed to afford relief. Surrounding the patient with hot bottles, placed outside a single blanket covering the patient, and then a number of blankets put over the whole, is an easy method of ensuring rapid diaphoresis, although, where obtainable, a hot air bath is much more efficacious. Occasionally emesis is of great value for clearing the larger bronchi, and a hypodermic injection of apomorphine (^^ to J grain) is the best agent to use. In exceptional cases tracheotomy and artificial irritation of the upper air-passages, or even suction, have been tried with success where the patient was in imminent danger. It is difficult to offer any suggestion as to the prophylaxis of ether and chloroform oedemas—they are so rare and therefore unex- pected, and so usually fatal when they do occur ; but to obviate the oedema following paracentesis of the thorax, it is, as a rule, only necessary to limit the amount of fluid removed at one time, and to remove that amount as slowly as possible. Thrombosis of the Pulmonary Arteries The frequency with which ante-mortem clot- ting occurs in the right auricle and ventricle, and in the pulmonary arteries, is recognised more, perhaps, at post-mortem examinations than by any definite clinical evidences of the condition before death, although it, unquestion- ably, is often directly responsible for the fatal event. It is specially liable to occur in pneu- monia, but its development in that disease and many other conditions must be considered to be due as much almost to the flagging heart as to the special tendency of blood-clotting in lobar pneumonia. In the author's experience of rather over sixty cases of typical lobar pneumonia, the larger pulmonary arteries always contained some blood-clots partly decolorised, but often mainly coloured, and only in about 5 per cent of these cases was their absolute blockage of some of the pulmonary arteries with firmly adherent decolorised clot. The so-called hy- perinotic condition of the blood is not limited to lobar pneumonia, but is common to not a few inflammatory conditions. The blood appears to tend to clot first in the appendix of the right auricle, and where that VOL. VI chamber is filled with almost entirely white clot, the oldest and most adherent part is always that situated in the appendix. Genei-- ally the white clot in the right ventricle is not so large in amount, and it forms first, ap- parently, in the spaces between the columnse carnese especially near the apex, to which it may become firmly adherent, and from which it may extend up the pulmonary artery, form- ing a cast of the cusps at its orifice, and reach- ing well beyond the division of the artery into its main branches. Sometimes the clot com- mences at the cusps and extends into the larger pulmonary arteries; but here it rarely fills the whole lumen of the vessels, and is, as a rule, readily removable. Where one large pulmonary artery is specially thrombosed with firmly adherent clot, there is generally some definite explanatory circum- stance which is not, however, primary arterial disease, but rather a local lung condition, such as pneumonia, tuberculosis, or gangrene affect- ing the area involved, which had indirectly brought about changes in the vessel walls per- mitting of the coagulation. The clot may in such a case completely fill the vessel and be firmly adherent. It is hardly necessary to remind the reader that thrombosis is an inevitable result of em- bolism, both the distal vessels in the area affected being filled with clot, and also throm- bosis generally occludes the vessel on the proximal side up to the nearest patent branch. Thrombosis may also follow pressure on a pulmonary artery, such as a tumour might induce. It is very doubtful whether throm- bosis in the pulmonary arteries is ever of spontaneous origin as urged by Pitt, whose statements find some favour with Fowler. Cases of thrombosis have been described oc- curring in the general venous system, and simultaneously in pulmonary arteries ; but they are open to question, and it seems unlikely that any so-called spontaneous pulmonary throm- bosis occurs other than that commencing in the right heart. Once thrombosis has occurred, organisation of the clot follows. Generally the vessel becomes obliterated, although occasionally tunnelling of the clot by the formation of large blood spaces may enable circulation to be re-established to a certain degree. Thrombosis, apart from embolism, rarely causes hgemorrhagic infarction. Generally the affected area of lung undergoes collapse with considerable oedema, and often consolidation of lung. The clinical features must vary greatly. If thrombosis begins in the heart it may be merely an ante-mortem phenomenon, or, as sometimes happens in lobar pneumonia, it may cause sudden death. Localised thrombosis in a pneumonic or tuber- 6