200 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF scribed, and sometimes even encapsulated. Tliey are of much slower growth, occur at a later period of life, less frequently infect the Fig. 16.—Shows cancer spreading in the lymphatics of the breast tissue. Below IS a small ultimate lobule of the parencliyraa, with the perilobular lymphatics at its upper part distended with cancer cells. lu the right upper quadrant of the field, the paravascular lymphatics accompanying two blood-vessels are dilated and filled with cancer cells; in the upper and left quadrant the cancer has invaded the intramammary fat. axillary glands, and neither the nipple nor the skin becomes retracted. After growing slowly for some years they may rapidly enlarge and ultimately fungate. More than half the cases operated upon have been followed by local recurrence. The treatment is the same as that of the ordinary acinous cancer, and the prognosis is probably better. Adeno-Carcinoma.—Under this term Hal- stead has singled out a type of carcinoma which possesses distinctive pathological and clinical features. He has met with 5 of these tumours in about 150 breast cancers. They all occurred in married women from forty-two to sixty-seven years of age, the average age being fifty-seven years, which is practically ten years later than the average age at which the ordinary scirrhus appears. Clinically, they differ from the ordinary scirrhus cancer in that they are softer, more vascular, grow to a larger size, and, above all, have a pronounced tendency to form fungating outgrowths which are often pedunculated. From the point of view of prognosis these tumours demand special recognition, as in spite of their encephaloid and malignant appearance they are actually much less malignant than the ordinary acinous cancers. In none of Halstead's cases were the axillary glands infected, although they were generally enlarged as the result of endothelial hyperplasia. Microscopically, the tumour is seen to be made up of large tubular spaces lined with many layers of epithelial cells. In many of the tubes the epithelium forms " cell com- binations which have resulted in the forma- tion of gland-like figures, circles, tubes, columns, and minute papillae. Even when the tubes are completely filled with tightly packed cells, one can detect little circles of cells or little tubes which betray the tend- ency and ability which the cells still have to form definite combinations." Similar microscopic appearances had previously been described by Morton, who, however, did not associate them with any clinical significance. In some parts of the tumour the epithelial cells form irregular clusters in the lymph spaces just as in pure carcinoma. From Halstead's description and illustra- tions of these tumours, the writer had no difficulty in recognising the condition in a case upon which he operated, and the subse- quent freedom from recurrence has justified the favourable prognosis which was given. Treatment.—Previous to the researches of Heidenhain and the writer, the credit of having condemned the old insufficient opera- tion, and of having practised an operation which raised the percentage of cures from 5 per cent or less, up to 10, 15, or 20 per cent, belongs more especially to Moore, Banks, and Lister in this country, to Gross in America, and to Volkmann and Kiister in Germany. In Fig. 16.—In the centre of the field is a main lactiferous duct lined by normal epithelium. The lymphatics and lymph spaces in the adventitious coat of the duct, whicli are everywhere filled with cancer cells, might lead to the erroneous conclusion that we have to deal with a lobule of the breast, the acini of which have be- come converted into numerous alveolar spaces. 1889 Heidenhain, and in 1891 the writer, published their researches into the causes of recurrence after operation, and the modern