108 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF I append to this article a summary of the views of Ford Robertson, published within the last few weeks in his Pathology of Mental Diseases, on this subject, becaiise they give us by far the most consecutive and logical accoimt which has as yet appeared, and fill up the lacunae of our previous knowledge. (See " Brain, Physiology of.") The brain (which may be taken as the type of the rest of the central nervous system) has no specialised lymph-vessels like organs, but the lymph is carried through a series of spaces and channels. When the lymph leaves the intra- cerebral capillaries it passes at once into the spongy mass of the brain, composed of nerve- cells, their processes, and the glia cells, which are loosely packed together and are bathed everywhere by the fluid. It used to be believed that the blood-vessels within the brain, and the nerve-cells also, at least the larger nerve-cells, were surroimded by lymph channels and spaces ; but these appearances have been shown to be due to shrinking of the delicate tissues due to the hardening agents employed. When the lymph has percolated this spongy mass it is collected in the adventitial lymph-channels of the intracerebral arterioles and venules, which are spaces in the whole of the connective tissue of the relatively thick adventitia of these vessels, and runs with them to the surface of the brain, where it is poured into the spaces of the arachnoid. There is no lymph-space lying between the brain-substance and the pia-arach- noid. From the arachnoid spaces it passes to the veins by several paths—through channels in the walls of the venous sinuses, through the Pacchionian villi into the superior longitudinal simis, in channels in the sheaths of the cranial and spinal nerves, and, most important of all, in the perivascular canals of the dura mater. These are grooves or channels in which lie the large capillaries of the inner aspect of the dura, and they appear to discharge into the diiral and cranial veins. The choroid plexuses probably both exude and absorb lymph, but only to a limited extent. The lymph of the brain is usually spoken of as cerebro-spinal fluid, and it differs in several respects from ordinary lymph. It is a clear fluid, with specific gravity from 1005 to 1010, faintly alkaline, containing practically no cells, and only about 1 per cent of solids. These are mainly salts ; proteids are present to the amount of only 0"1 per cent, and this is almost entirely globulin; serum albumin, fibrinogen, and fibrin ferment are not represented, so that the fluid does not clot. It contains also a substance which reduces Fehling's solution, but whose nature is not determined. The rate of production of the cerebro-spinal fluid depends, as elsewhere in the body, on the relation between the pressure in the capillaries and that in the cerebral lymph space. The low proteid percentage of the fluid and the small number of leucocytes present probably means that the intracerebral capillaries are specially impermeable (see the sections on Lymph Pro- duction). The rate of absorption depends on the difference between its pressure and that of the blood in the dural and cranial veins. This venous pressure varies with respiration. In expiration it is probably equal to that of the cerebro-spinal fluid (or the intracranial pressure), so there will then be no outflow of lymph into the veins. In inspiration the dural venous pressure falls below the intracranial, so that there will then be an outflow of the fluid. The amount of cerebro-spinal fluid is probably over-estimated. The vessels of the brain con- tract after death, fluid exudes, and the amount is thus apparently increased, while the brain decreases in size. In life there is probably no more than is requisite to fill up inequalities of surface, though there must always be a good deal in the arachnoid spaces of the cord. The pathological conditions of the cerebral lymph-system, apart from the alterations, such as hydrocephalus, produced by gross lesions, are not numerous. Excess of cerebro-spinal fluid is simply the ex- pression of brain atrophy, and is proportional to it. Alterations in the composition of the fluid may be due to several causes : (1) alterations in the blood—an excellent example of this is the mania which sometimes occurs in gastro-intestinal auto-intoxication ; (2) abnormal metabolism in the cerebral tissues, and (3) disintegration of the cerebral tissues, are merely stages in the process, and are best seen in general paralysis and in senile, alcoholic, and acute insanities. Obstruction of the lymph-channels is important in insanity as a secondary factor aggravating the primary morbid condition. It is due to abnormalities in the cerebro-spinal fluid, pro- duced in the various ways mentioned above, and rendering it unfitted to preserve the nutri- tion of the tissues. The condition is most severe in general paralysis, but occurs also in senile, alcoholic, choreic, and in most acute insanities. ■ There are three situations where it may occur:—(1) In the adventitial channels of the intracerebral vessels. Here the change will be very readily compensated for unless its dis- tribution is very wide. (2) In the arachnoid spaces, which, however, are so permeable that there is little likelihood of complete obstruction. (.3) In the perivascular channels of the dura and the sheaths of the cranial nerves, which suffer in the same way. The more complete the ob- struction here the more harmful is it. Where this occurs, as in all advanced cases of general paralysis and many of senile insanity, the mechanism by which variations in the amount of the blood sent to the brain is compensated for is disorganised, and pressure disturbances