MENTAL DEFICIENCY 357 Muscular atrophy and general emaciation follow till death closes the scene. (6) Eclampsic cases form a large proportion of all cases of mental defect. About one-third of the idiotic and imbecile patients of the Royal Albert Asylum were said to have suffered from convulsions during teething; but the question, of course, arises how far these were the efficient cause of the mental condition. It is probable that in the majority the eclampsia was but one of the signs, though the most impressive one of the innate nervous instability inherited from parents, who, however, are usually slow to recognise an innate inherited tendency to defect. Be this as it may, there is no doubt that the frequent recurrence of fits in early life interferes with normal mental development, and even when the child's general health improves and the fits disappear—as is the case in the eclampsic as distinguished from the epileptic type—mental enfeeblement, ranging from mere feeble-minded- ness to idiocy, is apt to supervene. (c) Epileptic cases include those in which, in contradistinction to the eclampsic cases just described, there is no cessation of convulsive attacks after the period of dentition, or in which epilepsy may have come on after this period, but at so early an age as to interfere with the normal evolution of the child's faculties. Epi- lepsy at a later age is apt to produce mental deterioration, but in this case epileptic dementia (rather than amentia) is the more appropriate classification. From the practical point of view, cases of epilepsy occurring during the educational period may have to be considered together, and in an investigation of 350 cases (conducted by the writer for the London School Board) only about 17 per cent were found fit for the ordinary school curriculum, 27"5 requiring extra care in schools for special instruction, whilst 40 per cent were only fit for epileptic institutions, and 15'5 per cent were idiots and imbeciles. As a rule, the earlier the manifestation of the epi- lepsy the more serious the mental condition, such cases being for the most part due to hereditary neurosis. {d) Syphilitic cases figure comparatively rarely amongst idiots and imbeciles, forming no more than 1"17 per cent of the 2380 cases investigated for etiological purposes by Beach and Shuttle- worth, as judged by observed stigmata of in- herited syphilis. It is probable, however, that it really forms a more considerable factor, espe- cially in the minor forms of mental defect. In well-marked cases the ashy complexion, with radiating scars around mouth, and the exist- ence, after second dentition, of notched Hutchin- sonian "teeth," or of teeth of the peggy "cork- screw " type, are pathognomonic, especially when these evidences co-exist with traces of inter- stitial keratitis and a syphilitic parental history. Of late years Clouston and others have drawn attention to a class of degenerating cases, under the designation of juvenile general paralysis, which, according to the experience of the present writer, seem to be essentially of this type, and which were long ago described by Mendel, Judson Bury, and others as cases of syphilitic dementia occurring in children. As a rule, the symptoms of mental deficiency do not manifest themselves till the onset of puberty, up to which the intelligence has been up to the average: progressive deterioration then sets in, the knowledge previously acquired being gradually lost, dementia and paresis finally leading to a fatal termination. III. Accidental (or Acquired) cases include those cases of mental deficiency which cannot be traced to causes in operation prior to birth, but are reasonably attributed to accident, dis- ease, mental shock, or it may be merely mal- nutrition, during the period of childhood. They may be divided into the following groups:— (a) Traumatic. (h) Post-febrile (or inflammatory), (c) Sclerotic. (a) Traumatic cases comprise those in which mental defect has resulted from injury or vio- lence of such a character as to interfere with the normal cerebral development. The earliest to be named is the interesting class of birth palsies (cerebral diplegia) due to intracranial injury at the time of birth. Whilst instru- mental delivery has been blamed by certain writers (Winkler, BoUaan, and others) for this result, it is probable that protracted pressure in an unassisted, unduly-prolonged labour is a much more potent factor in the causation of meningeal haemorrhage and mental defect; in fact, in the etiological statistics gathered by Dr. Beach and the present writer, protracted labour figures more than four times as often as forceps delivery as a probable cause of mental defect. Meningeal hfemorrhages thus caused specially affect the Rolandic area, but the resulting scleroses may extend and involve not only the muscular, but the mental powers. Common characteristics of these cases are rigidity and spastic contractures of the limbs, obvious even at an early age, but becoming more embarrassing as time goes on. The power of speech as well as of walking is interfered with, and whatever mental intelligence exists is masked by these physical defects. (b) Under the heading 2Mst-febrile or inflam- matory we include cases resulting from various forms of meningeal or cerebral inflammation arising either in the course of acute infectious disease or otherwise produced. Not a few cases of mental deficiency are attributed to the consequence of attacks in early life of small- pox, typhoid fever, scarlatina, and whooping- cough, and when so caused the development of the convolutions seems to have been checked by thickened membranes and changes in the coats of blood-vessels interfering with nutrition; or it