MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS 352 bromide of potash, or salix nigra given ; hot vaginal douches and ichthyol-glycerine tampons administered; and the patient liept at rest. If the appendages be bound down by adhesions and the ovaries cystic, the abdomen should be opened, the adhesions separated, and the cystic part of the ovary resected. If the ovaries and tubes be grossly diseased it may be necessary to completely extirpate them. This should only be done as the dernier ressort; it must never be undertaken lightly, nor without frankly explain- ing to the patient the immediate and remote results. It is not equally efficacious in all cases of dysmenorrhoea. As a general rule, the less there is the matter with the appendages, the less likely is their removal likely to cure the dysmenorrhoea. For instance, the complete removal of both ovaries and tubes rarely fails to relieve the suffering due to pyosalpinx or abscess of the ovaries. But it is often of little or no use in those cases which are doubtfully labelled "chronic oophoritis." It certainly in most of such cases arrests the menstrual flow; but it often fails to relieve and may even aggra- vate the chronic pelvic pain, the groinache, the backache, and the nervous depression from which she suffers. To remove healthy ovaries and tubes to cure a dysmenorrhoea for which there is no local cause, is as barbarous as the wholesale extracting of healthy teeth to remedy a facial neuralgia. It is absolutely unjustifiable unless the patient's sufferings be such as to render life unendurable and all milder measures have failed. In such cases, moreover, the operation of vaginal hysterectomy is safer, more certain of relieving the patient, and less likely to be followed by untoward after-results than the removal of the ovaries. Intermenstrual Pain or Mittelschmerz." — This rare condition was first described by Priestley. It is characterised by marked pelvic pain, occurring not at or just before the period, but midway between two periods. It is regular in its onset—always fourteen days before the next period. The pain is violent and occurs in paroxysms, and lasts for three or four days. It is sometimes accompanied by a watery discharge from the uterus. In a few instances the dis- charge is hsemorrhagic, but scanty, so that there is an abortive period in the middle of each interval. On examination, the pelvic organs may be found quite normal, but usually distinct signs of chronic inflammation are found in the tubes or ovaries. In a considerable number of cases the condition of hydrosalj^inx has been found associated with " Mittelschmerz," and by most authorities is believed to be the cause. The treatment is that of dysmenorrhoea. If there be evidence of diseased tubes or ovaries these organs must be treated secundum artem. In intractable cases, where there is severe suffering, the uterine appendages may have to be extirpated. Retention of the Menses Retention of the menses is a rare condition— as rare, indeed, as suppression of the menses (amenorrhoea) is common. In suppression there is an arrest of secretion; in retention, the menstrual fluid is poured out, but from occlu- sion, or "atresia" of part of the genital canal, is dammed up above the point of obstruction and collects within the body. If the duct of a secreting gland be occluded, the secretion collects in the cavity of the gland, and distends it into a retention cyst. Thus if the ureter be blocked by a calculus, the renal secretion distends the kidney into a cystic tumoLir—a hydronephrosis. Should this col- lection become infected with pyogenic micro- organisms suppuration occurs, and the kidney becomes a bag of pus—a pyonephrosis. By precisely similar processes, if the cervix be occluded and the outflow from the uterus prevented, the organ becomes converted into a huge retention cyst. If the contents be merely menstrual blood, the condition is that of hsema- tometra. If micro-organisms gain access to the retained secretion decomposition occurs, the fluid becomes purulent and a pyometra is produced. Atresia of the genital canal may be either acquired or congenital, and it may occur (a) at the hymen, (b) in the vagina, (c) in the cervix. Acquired atresia usually occurs in the cervix, and is the result of some preceding operation or inflammatory lesion, causing destruction of tissue and cicatricial contraction. Thus a patient has an epithelioma of the cervix re- moved by means of Paquelin's cautery. This causes extensive sloughing and suppuration, and, finally, in place of the cervical canal there is left a dense mass of scar tissue. This com- pletely seals up the mouth of the womb, which then becomes distended with menstrual blood (hsematometra). The causes of acquired atresia of the cervix are:— (a) Operations on the cervix, such as ampu- tation. {b) Endocervicitis. (c) The application of caustics to the cervix. (d) Sloughing after parturition. The causes of acquired atresia of the vagina are:— (a) Injuries causing sloughing, severe burns, caustics. (V) Severe vaginitis. (c) Syphilitic ulceration. \d) Sloughing after parturition. Congenital atresia is caused by some arrest of the process by which the uterus. Fallopian tubes, and vagina are developed. It will be remembered that these organs are formed from the two Mlillerian ducts. These ducts, in early foetal life, are two solid parallel columns of cells.