196 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF very rarely occurs, and even capillary oozing is rare compared with that which occurs in fungat- ing malignant tumours. The pain may be slight, although more usually it is severe and lancinating. While this superficial extension of the disease is proceeding, the deeper parts are also becom- ing invaded. The tumour, after reaching the posterior surface of the corpus mammae, becomes adherent to the retromammary areolar tissue and then to the pectoral fascia. It is important to note that when the tumour is deep-seated, the retromammary tissue, and, what is of even greater significance, the efferent lymphatic vessels which it contains, may become infected before there is any trace of skin invasion. It follows, therefore, that axillary infection may Fig. 14.—Vertiral Sfction tlirouyh an area of skin overlying a cancer of the breast, and presenting the " peati d'arawje " -Aiipenrance. lu the clironically oedematous and thickened cutis are microscopic foci of cancer distribnted, probably, in the lymphatics. occur at what may appear clinically to be a very early stage of the disease. Invasion of the pectoralis major next occurs, and is indicated by fixation of the breast. It aiust be remembered, however, that this con- dition may admit of considerable movement of the organ along with the muscle when the latter is relaxed; but when the muscle is put on the stretch by abduction of the arm, no movement takes place in a direction at right angles to the pectoral fibres. Invasion of the intercostal muscles and ribs is indicated by absolute fixation of the breast, which, according to Gross, occurs on an average six months after adhesion to the skin, and two months after ulceration. When the tumour is situated at or near the periphery of the lower and outer quadrant, that is to say, below and external to the pectoralis major, fixation to the chest occurs at a much earlier date than when the tumour overlies the pectoralis major. This symptom, viz., fixation to the chest wall, has a grave influence on the prognosis, as it is almost certain to be associated with cancerous infection of the intercostal and subpleural lymphatics, along which the disease is conveyed to the anterior mediastinum, to the lungs, and through the diaphragm to the liver. Sooner or later the cancer cells enter the venous system, either through the lymphatics, or, as has been so admirably demonstrated by Gold- man, by invasion of the walls of the veins in the neighbourhood of the tumour, or of its local disseminations. When once the lungs become involved the cancer cells reach the left side of the heart as a result of direct cancerous invasion of the walls of the pulmonary veins, rather than by traversing the pulmonary capillaries. From the left side of the heart general dis- semination occurs, and results in the formation of meta- static deposits in various parts of the body. The date at which metastatic deposits occur varies from a few months to several years, being dependent for the most part on the acuteness or rate of progress of the primary disease; fortunately, it seldom occurs imtil two years after the disease has first been noted, or until about a year after glandular infection. According to Gross, " in about one case in every seven metastasis occurs without implication of the glands; from which it appears that infection may take place through the blood-vessels, and that the absence of enlarged glands affords no guarantee that the viscera are not already in- vaded." As already pointed out, howevei', the pleura, the lungs, and the liver may be invaded by direct lymphatic extension, and Dr. Beatson has shown that the liver is more frequently affected when the right breast is involved. As to the frequency of metastatic deposits, Williams estimates that, in those cases which have been allowed to run a natural course un- influenced by operation, metastasis occurs in 73'5 per cent, leaving therefore 26-5 per cent in which death occurs from local or other general causes. By combining the statistics of Winiwarter, Hendry, Oldekop, and Sprengel, Gross finds that the average date of death from metastasis is 29 months after the first appear-