157 MALINGERING law-suit has resulted in substantial damages for the plaintiff. To cite another frequent example : an apparently almost insignificant strain of ligament, in connection with the vertebral column, may really entail consequences which lead to considerable and prolonged disablement. Hence we should approach any obscure case with a perfectly unbiassed mind, either in the patient's favour or against his supposed interests. Malingering (Deliberate and Planned).—In the selection of cases which follow, which is necessarily merely a brief one, we have drawn from past and modern medical records, and also from our own personal experience. A reference to the bibliography appended will enable the reader to augment his studies of cases. It must be understood here that the facility of detection of, and the ability to terminate, a scheme of imposture will depend entirely upon the personality of the individual practitioner. Medical, surgical, physiological, and psychologi- cal science is the basis of all correct detection, but success will follow only where a shrewd ob- servation is coupled with scientific knowledge, and where a certain natural faculty exists of making rapid logical conclusions from the objec- tive study of a case. Also a very versatile and ready resource is needed with which to follow up our suspicions with appropriate action, de- signed to outwit and confuse the impostor, who has set himself to outwit and confuse us. A smile, or a cough, or a flinch at an inappropriate moment will tell the tale of the feigner to the logically observant " detective" practitioner; and he will so rapidly back up his nascent suspicion by some act or suggestion which will induce some added inconsistency, that he will often become convinced of the fraud before him at once, while a less acute observer will be wasting his energies and time over some useless scientific investigations, which are only suggest- ing new items of feigned symptoms to the subtle mind of his patient. Science is excellent as an aid to prove our diagnosis of imposture sound ; but science used too early in an obscure case often diverts our mind from the fog-signals that explode from time to time around the malingerer, and which should be heard early by the in- vestigator. Thus it is not difficult for an impostor to simulate an exaggerated patellar reflex, which may cause the surgeon to spend half an hour in testing various kinds of deep and superficial reflexes and seeking for hyperaesthetic areas and so forth. But if, while thus engaged, the surgeon fails to apprehend the purport of a " wink " from the subject to his accompanying friend (in the fraud), all his science might as well be left at home ! Nor must we forget that a symptom malingered does not necessarily dis- prove real disease. It is impossible to convey any idea of how any particular case of malingering should be detected, just as it is useless to endeavour to lay down any laws for the reclaiming of a malingerer from his dishonest ways. Every case will present its weak points to the prac- titioner tvho can see them, and the adroit doctor will find a new method of upsetting each scheme that comes under his notice. The occasion will create the antidote. As to curative means, whereby we may hope to render impostors weary of their ways, we may suggest the following methods, which must be judiciously varied and added to so as to meet each individual case :— Judicious irony ; obviously exaggerated sym- pathy ; appeals to honour and proper pride; discomfort; cold shower baths, or hot baths with cold affusion to head, etc.; unpalatable diet; electrical " stimulation " ; deprivation of books and of all occupations; blisters followed by savin ointment to the denuded surface; strict confinement to bed in cases of feigned leg or feet injuries, etc. These and other un- welcome methods of therapeusis should be enjoined in such tones as to make it clear to the feigner that he is not deceiving us. It is often wise not to actually tell him he is acting fraudulently, but let him see clearly what our opinion is. We require his proper pride to assist us in eliciting honest action in the future from him, so we must not risk shaming him too much m our presence. It is frequently possible and diplomatic to gain the co-operation of a malingerer's friend, and to entrust him with the duty of informing the impostor of our perception of his dishonesty. Many malingerers will reward one for this con- sideration of their feelings by throwing up the battle, who would continue it if we hurt their proper pride by a too open personal charge of imposture. Hypnotism should perhaps have a useful place amongst the measures for disorganising plans of feigning ; but the true malingerer is generally of too strong a personality to lend himself readily to the " influence." This form of thera- peusis might be more efficient in neuro-mimesis. Varieties of Malinger^ing.—It is impossible, in an article of this length, to describe all the varieties of feigned disease; but it may be here said that almost every description of sub- jective and objective ailment has been feigned or produced. Apparently the science of malingering, either as practised by the subject or studied by the medical man, has not progressed or changed greatly during the last century, and ancient records will afford us as useful and practical assistance as more modern ones. In one way we have improved, for we now recognise more accurately in hysteria and the allied neuroses a pathological cause and excitant of the nervous forms of simulation. As sciences advance, the terms and phrases are introduced into the voca-