OF—EMPHYSEMA 74 LUNGS, DISEASES of air, it was contended that the increased inspiratory effort would cause a pressure of air greater than the alveoli could contain, and that in consequence the air-cells would become over- distended. The force of inspiration was con- ceived to be greater than that of expiration. The view now held is diametrically opposed to Gairdner, and was enunciated by Jenner in a paper read at the Medical and Chirurgical Society in 18.57. This view, which is abundantly proved by clinical observation, contends that forced expiration has a far greater power in distending the pulmonary alveoli than is possible in inspiration. Cough is produced by the presence of a foreign body, usually mucus, in the bronchial tubes. It is nothing more than an effort of expulsion, and is produced by the closure of the glottis and a contraction of the expiratory muscles. The abdominal and inter- costal muscles contract; the diaphragm is pushed up, limiting the capacity of the chest. The air in the lungs is thus compressed, and its tension raised. The glottis suddenly relaxes, and owing to the greatly increased tension air is violently expelled from the lungs. The expiratory theory of emphysema is now generally received, and has been abundantly vindicated by the convincing proofs afforded by Jenner. It is assumed that forced expiration is the inducing cause. This scarcely explains the permanence of the condition. Rainey demon- strated that, apart from possible conditions of pressure and tension, fatty degeneration of lung tissue was an accompaniment, if not a predisposing cause, of the final enlargement of the alveoli. Jenner regarded the morbid state as one of fibrous degenei'ation, due in many cases to the effusion of lymph into the inter- stitial tissues of the lung, in conditions of con- gestion, and to their subsequent organisation. To sum up, it may be stated that forced expira- tion exerts a more powerful influence than forced inspiration in distending the pulmonary alveoli. At the same time there is evidence derived from cases of asthma and laryngeal obstruction that increased inspiration (where the outlet of air is obstructed) takes some share in increasing the tension in alveoli in these cases, and cannot be altogether disregarded. Inducing Causes.—It is obvious from the above considerations that cough is the most frequent factor that produces emphysema. All diseases that produce chronic cough and all occupations that set up catarrh or irritation of bronchi may be regarded as predisposing causes of emphysema. Amongst the former, chronic bronchial catarrh and winter cough are the most frequent. Of the latter, the occupations in- volving the inhalation of dust, such as stone- masons, coal-miners, workers in cotton factories, and so on, are irritative causes. All violent muscular efforts are liable to pro- duce emphysema. Constipation is undoubtedly a cause, especially as the effort is made with a closed glottis. The same remark applies to players on wind instruments—cornet players, etc.—and to glass-blowers. In all these in- stances the glottis is closed, and the tension of the air in the lungs is raised before the final effort of blowing is made. In asthma and cases of laryngeal obstruction the inspiratory effort probably plays a larger part than the expiratory. Forms of Emphysema.—Clinically, the disease, when of primary origin, has been described by Jenner as of two varieties—the large-lunged or hypertrophic emphysema and the small-lunged or atrophic form. The common cases are those of the so-called hypertrophic type. The chest is barrel-shaped, and its capacity greatly increased. It may occur at any age, in children or in adults. It is more frequently seen in men than in women. It is induced by all pulmonary complaints that are accompanied by excessive cough or dyspnoea and also by conditions involving unusual mus- cular effort. Small-lunged or atrophic emphy- sema occurs in old people. The thorax is small, and usually there is ossification of the cartilages of the ribs and a rigid chest. The capacity of the chest is not enlarged, and the atrophy of lungs is usually part of a general wasting of all the tissues of the body. Secondary emphysema is the result of some pulmonary disease, usually chronic tuberculosis of lung. When one lung or a part of a lung is the seat of chronic disease it is commonly found that certain parts of the affected lung and the opposite lung become emphysematous. This is often the result of continued cough. The ultimate result is that the edges of the lobes of the diseased lung, sometimes the apex and base, and frequently the whole of the opposing lung become affected. Local emphysema of this form is frequently found in fibroid cases of phthisis and may be sufficiently pronounced to mask the primary disease, and give rise to what is some- times called the emphysematous type of phthisis. In these cases the sequence of events is not always the same. Sometimes the emphysema is the direct result of chronic cough induced by the tubercular lesion. In others, tubercular disease supervenes in a case of chronic bronchitis (winter cough) associated with emphysema, and it is often a matter of extreme difficulty to decide whether the chronic bronchial catarrh has been set up by an old and latent tubercular process or whether the tubercular disease has developed subsequently. Secondary emphysema may result from any chronic pulmonary disease other than tuberculosis of lungs. Pathology.—The post-mortem appearance of the large-lunged type of emphysema is that of a bulky lung, non-crepitant, and usually pitting upon pressure, very pale in colour and spotted