MALARIA 143 alkalis, and alcohol. It is in reality bvit slightly altered haemoglobin derived from disintegration of the red cells. This variety of pigment is found chiefly in the cells of the liver, spleen, and kidneys. Internal Organs.—The post-mortem changes of the internal organs differ according to whether the case be one of recent infection or one of long standing. In a fatal case due to recent infec- tion the body will be anaemic. The spleen will be enlarged, but not always very much ; it will be soft, tense, and its parenchyma diffluent, and reddish black or black in colour. The liver will be swollen and congested, and on section it may have a slaty appearance. The fluid in the serous cavities may have a yellow tinge. On examining the brain, tiny specks of melanin may be visible to the naked eye; the capillaries will usually be full of blood, and puncta cruenta well marked. The lungs, as a rule, do not present anything characteristic. The intestinal tract may or may not show evidence of con- gestion ; its mucous lining may have a greyish hue, but this is found in other conditions besides malaria. The bone-marrow is usually dark in colour. On microscopical examination the spleen will be found to contain malarial parasites in enormous numbers, and generally in different stages of development, although, as a rule, the greater number will be at the same stage. They may be free or intracorpuscular. Large macrophages and leucocytes will be seen laden with black pigment, some of which may be in dense masses. These cells will also be found to contain parasites which are included in red cells. The infected red cells will generally be shrunken, discoloured, and degenerating, but the parasites they contain may look healthy. Occasionally one meets with a macrophage which has en- gulfed a leucocyte containing in its interior an infected red cell. In sections of the liver the capillaries will contain pigment-laden leucocytes, but parasites will, as a rule, be present in very small numbers. The endothelial cells of the capillaries may contain pigment. The liver cells may be undergoing cloudy swelling, and in their substance will be found a varying amount of yellow pigment in fine granules. The brain in most cases, but especially in those which have exhibited cerebral symptoms during life, shows ample evidence of malarial infection. The capillaries will contain parasites in large numbers, some free, others in red cells, and others in the endothelial lining cells of the capillaries. Melanin granules will also be found in abundance, and veritable thrombi are often formed partly by the aggregation of parasites and pigment, and partly by the swelling and degeneration of the endothelial cells. Pigment- bearing macrophages and leucocytes will also be present. Although the cells of the brain substance do not contain parasites or pigment, yet not infrequently they may be shown, on staining by Golgi's method, to have undergone coarse morbid changes in consequence of the deficient supply of blood brought about by the thrombosis of the capillaries. These changes are always localised, and only certain of the cells in a given area are aff'ected. These will be seen to be shrunken and degenerating and their dendrites beaded along their continuity. The capillary loops of the intestine in some cases are found to contain a large number of parasites and also pigment. hi chronic malaria the spleen will be enor- mously enlarged, firm, and with a sharp, well- defined border. On section, the capsule and trabeculse are seen to be thickened. The liver will be enlarged and firm, and cirrhotic changes may be evident. On section it may exhibit a reddish-brown or diffuse'slate colour; this latter, however, may be limited to the periphery of the lobules. The brain usually presents the well- known leaden hue. Microscopical examination, however, will often fail to demonstrate the pres- ence of any parasites, especially if a febrile attack has not occurred for some time; but pigment will usually be present. The spleen will contain a large amount of pigment in the vascular spaces, lymphoid cells, and connective tissue. The large ague cakes do not contain as much pigment as the smaller ones. In the liver the pigment tends to diminish in old cases, and appears to be carried to the periphery of the organ and to the glands at the hilus of the liver. Well-marked cirrhotic changes may be met with, but recent observers are disinclined to attribute these to uncomplicated malaria. The kidneys may be cirrhotic and atrophied. To obtain good sections of malarial organs the tissues should be obtained immediately after death. Sections should be examined stained and also unstained. Etiology The etiological factors which predispose to malaria are those conditions which favour the development and spread of the malaria-bearing mosquitoes. Mosquitoes require a comparatively high at- mospheric temperature in order to develop, consequently malaria abounds chiefly in the warmer latitudes. Mosquitoes, however, are found also in colder latitudes during the hot summer mouths, and if the other necessary conditions are present, malaria will exist. This is the case on the shores of the Baltic and in other places. The drainage, levelling, and paving of towns is inimical to the breeding of the Anopheles, so that malaria is, for the most part, a rural disease. Rome is free from malaria; the sur- rovmding Campagna, on the other hand, is intensely malarious. Malaria is found chiefly in the plains and low-lying regions; mosquitoes find suitable breeding-spots here. They are