400 MICROSCOPE, THE power objectives are in use. The light being reflected from the plane mirror on to the object, the latter is carefully focussed, a suitable dia- phragm is inserted, and the rays of light re- flected from the mirror must then be accurately focussed in the plane of the object, and to do so the condensor is to be raised or lowered until the image of the source of light is seen as sharply as possible at the same time as the accurately focussed object. When the con- densor is used with artificial light, the object is first focussed and the image of the flame is directed to the middle of the field, and the condensor is then lowered or raised until the image of the flame is focussed in the plane of the object. The object can then be studied with the greatest precision ; but for most pur- poses it is more convenient if the condensor be lowered until the field is evenly illuminated. With an oil-immersion objective the condensor and plane mirror are always to be used. The slide is placed on the stage so that the optical axis of the microscope coincides with the centre of the cover-glass, on which a drop of cedar oil is now placed. The tube of the microscope is then lowered until the objective is observed to touch the oil. The observer then looks through the microscope, throws the light from the mirror on to the object, and carefully racks down the microscope tube until the object comes into view, when the coarse adjustment is discarded and the object focussed by means of the fine adjust- ment. The illumination has now to be regu- lated so that the rays of light passing through the condensor shall unite in the plane of the oliject, and to do so it is convenient to employ the method of " maximum illumination," which consists in simultaneously regulating with the left hand the position of the condensor, and with the right hand the mirror in such a manner that the centre of the field is illuminated as brightly as possible. The same result can be obtained by removing the ocular and, whilst looking down the tube of the microscope, simul- taneously regulating the condensor and mirror so that the uppermost lens of the objective is most clearly illuminated, the centre of the illuminated portion corresponding to the centre of the lens. After replacing the ocular the illumination of the field will then be found to be as correct as it was by the previous method. As regards the diaphragm to be employed in each instance : if objects which are diiTerentiated solely or chiefly by diff^erent refractive indices— for example, bacteria suspended in fluid—are to be observed, the iris diaphragm is to be contracted ; whereas if objects are to be recog- nised by their colour, the diaphragm must be opened as widely as possible. In order to as- certain whether full use is being made of the aperture of the objective, the observer removes the ocular and notes whether the uppermost lens of the objective is illuminated to its margins, or whether only the central portion is illumi- nated. The Care of the Microscope.—The instrument when not in use should be protected from dust by a glass cover. It is convenient to have a cord running in a pulley fixed to the ceiling and to attach the upper end of the glass cover to one extremity of the cord, whilst a piece of lead of the same weight as the cover is sus- pended freely from the other end. The cover can thus be raised off' the microscope and again lowered with great facility. Dust and stains on the stand should be removed by a fine clean cloth; alcohol should never be applied for the purpose of cleansing the stand, as it will remove the lacquer from the brasswork. If the joints require oiling, clock oil is suitable for the purpose. Objectives should be examined both before and after use in order to ascertain whether they are clean. This is preferably done with the aid of a pocket lens, but the ordinary low-power objective serves equally well for the same purpose and is always at hand. Dust on the ocular is detected by rotating the latter in the draw-tube. If on so doing the dust particles remain in an unchanged position in the field they are probably on the objective, and are removed by means of a fine, soft, linen rag, or piece of chamois leather which has been thoroughly washed. If a dry cloth prove insufficient to cleanse the lens, it should be wiped with a cloth moistened with distilled water, or a little alcohol or benzine. Xylol should not be used, as it tends to act on the balsam cementing the lenses. After using the oil-immersion objective it should always be cleaned and dried with a small piece of cotton wool or fine linen. M i C r O S O in i a,. — Abnormal smallness either of the whole body or of one or more parts; dwarfism. See Achondroplasia ; Dwarfism ; Atrophy. Microsporidia.—A genus of the Sporozoa. See Parasites {Protozoa, Sporozoa). MicrOSpOrOll.—A fungus, the cause of several skin diseases, e.g. the microsporon furfur of tinea versicolor, the microsporon Audouini of tinea tonsurans, and the microsporon minu- tissimum of tinea erythrasma. See Skin, Parasites {Introductory). Microstomia or iVIicrostomus.— Abnormal narrowness of the oral aperture with smallness of the lips; it may be met with in association with other deformities of the face, such as micrognathus, microtia, and cyclopia. See Palate {Congenital Malformations of the Mouth, Microstoma). iViicrotia.—Abnormal smallness of the outer ear.