244 MEDICINE, FORENSIC The report should be in the following form :— Place. Date. We hereby certify upon soul and conscience that, by instructions of the procurator-fiscal of the county of on {date) at we examined the body of a (seoc) which was identified in our presence by and by as that of {name) External Appearances.—Genei'al conformation and appearance : rigidity, lividity, etc. ; marks of injury or violence. Internal Ajjpearances. — Thorax and air- passages : abdomen, head, etc. Opinion as to cause of death. Signatures. The language of the report should be simple and clear, technical terms being as far as possible avoided. Nothing but facts observed, and a concluding opinion as to the cause of death must appear in the report. The medical examiners are afforded an opportunity of explaining or exem- plifying any points or matters of opinion in their precognitions. If mistakes are made in a report, it is better to rewrite it, but otherwise all alterations must be initialled on the margin. In England a written report of a post-mortem examination is not submitted as a rvile—a verbal statement is made at the coroner's inquest, and this is taken down in writing and signed, form- ing the witnesses' deposition in the case. Medical reports in England do not require to be "on sold and conscience," but in Scotland this is essential in the case of all judicial certifi- cates and reports. Advanced decomposition of human remains should not be urged as an excuse for not per- forming a post-mortem examination. Valuable information may still be afforded in such cases. In cases of suspected murder, when a medical man is called in to inspect the body in the actual locus, he must note its position and all surrounding circumstances. Police officials should not be relied upon to perform this duty. In giving evidence in court a witness must remember that his evidence must be heard and understood by the jury, hence he should speak clearly and in language which will be intelligible to them. He can only refresh his memory from notes which have been taken at the time of his examination. There is no exception made in giving evidence as to matters of professional secrecy. While the witness may object to making known confidential statements or in- formation obtained professionally, he must obey the directions of the judge on such matters. Dying Declarations.—When a person who has suffered violence or injury of any kind is known to be dying, the medical attendant should at once inform the police of the fact, so that any declaration the patient desires to make may be taken down by the proper authority. Such a declaration is only admissible as evi- dence subsequently, provided the patient knew that death was imminent, and believed that all hope of recovery was gone, and provided that he was mentally in a condition to know the nature and full purport of his dying words. The medical attendant must satisfy himself of the existence of these three conditions. If there is no time to procure the proper legal function- aries, then the medical man should himself take down the declaration in the presence of two wit- nesses, being careful, however, not to prompt or suggest anything, but merely to write down the ipsissima verba and get the document signed, if possible, by the patient, and those present in the room. Identity. ...... 244 The Signs of Death .... 245 Cooling of the Body . . . .245 Rigor Mortis ..... 245 Hypostasis . . . . .246 Putrefaction . . . . .247 Identity.—In the case of dead bodies the identity must always, if possible, be determined before commencing a post-mortem examination, and as a rule this is done by relatives or friends of the deceased in the presence of the medical examiner. In the case of an unknown body, the medical examiner, in order to aid future identification, must carefully note and describe its external appearance in regard to clothing, ornaments, general conformation and nutrition, stature, features, distribution and colour of the hair, colour of the eyes, condition of the teeth, pres- ence of any deformities, cicatrices, tattoo marks, or peculiarities. Putrefaction naturally tends to destroy such evidence of identity, but even in advanced decomposition valuable data for identification may be obtained from clothing, hair, teeth, the presence of deformities, and from the skeleton, all of which resist resolution for long periods. Even when all the soft tissues have disappeared, the sex, age, stature, and the existence of any deformity of bone may be determined. Sex will be indicated by the general size, strength, and development of the skeleton, but more especially by an examination of the pelvis in the case of adults. The length of the hair may also afford an indication. The age of a skeleton must be determined by an examination of the lower jaw and of the teeth, the state of ossification of individual bones and of the cartilages. Cicatrices and Tattoo Marks.—It is generally held that injuries which have involved a de- struction of the true skin leave permanent