449 MORPHINOMANIA AND ALLIED DRUG HABITS abstinenz symptome. It is recommended to begin with grain sulphate of atropine, and to gradually increase the dose, watching closely its effects.! Dr. Gerard Smith recommends sulphate of spartein to lessen the " abstinence storm," and when the pulse shows severe tension, nitro-glycerine or nitrite of amyl gives rapid relief. Dr. Fleming recommends that when insomnia is very protracted tr. of cannabis indica in 3SS. to 3]. doses should be given at bedtime. The bromides are of decided use in the treatment of a case, and may be given in large doses. Dr. Neil Macleod reported two cases in which a well-established habit was cured by bromide poisoning,^ and has since tried it in others and strongly advocates it. The best drug for the insomnia during demorphinisation is trional, given in 40-grain doses to adult males, 30 grains to females. Sleep follows in from three to four hours, lasts on an average seven to eight hours, and is sound, dreamless, and refreshing. Dr. J. B. Mattison of the Brooklyn Home for drug habitues says : ^ " We use it exclusively for the first six or eight nights, decreasing it gradually to half the initial dose. For the insomnia of morphia habitues it is the most valuable sopo- rific we possess." He advises that when pain is present, the trional should be combined with codeine, and thus it gives satisfactory results. Erlenmeyer has given a very important contribution to the treatment of demorphinisa- tion.* He has found, by means of the stomach tube, that where morphia has been taken there is a great excess of HCl in the stomach. This is due, he believes, to the previous narcotic effect of the morphia on the glands and the dulled sensibility of the nerves, as the morphia is excreted by the gastric glands. When, how- ever, the narcotic source is suddenly cut off, the reverse of this condition obtains, there is hypersecretion of the glands, and the nerves become hypersensitive, hence the extreme gastric and nervous symptoms. He therefore keeps the gastric contents neutralised with large draughts of 0'35 per cent solution of bicarbonate of soda, with the result that he has treated thirty cases in this way, with total absence of gastric and nervous symptoms, although the craving for the drug remains. Though it is rare to meet with pregnancy in a morphinomaniac, it does occur, and in such a case great care should be exercised, as any attempt to withdraw the drug is almost sure to be followed by abortion or miscarriage. It should also be remembered, as pointed out by Erlenmeyer, that infants born of mothers ad- dicted to morphia are affected with abstinenz symptome. They are, in fact, congenital mor- 1 B. M. J., 1894, vol. i. Epit. 97. 2 lb., 1897, vol, ii. p. 76. 2 Med. Record, 11th December 1893. * Prog, midicale, 1st August 1896. VOL. VI phine habitues, and as soon as they are sepa- rated at birth from their source of supply, are liable to serious troubles, such as complete insomnia, which in one case lasted for sixty hours. 1 This is quite borne out by the fact that morphia has been found in the blood of the umbilical vessels and foetal placenta of a new- born child whose mother was a morphinist.''^ Again, should a morphinomaniac be seized by any acute or subacute illness, his morphia must be continued, as, if stopped, symptoms may arise which may puzzle the physician and seriously endanger the patient's life. The case is related in the Lancet of a medical man, a morphia habitue, who got pneumonia. Most alarming symptoms of dyspnoea, cyanosis, weak and ir- regular heart-action, and excessive rapidity of pulse, caused the greatest anxiety for the result, and it appeared that a fatal issue was prevented only by a recognition that these were the absti- nenz symptome of a morphinist rather than due to the pneumonia, and by a prompt recourse to the stimulant for which the system was craving. For such an enslaving habit as morphino- mania there should be even a more earnest consideration of prophylactic than of curative measures. Most of the blessings that nature has placed within our reach may, by improper use, be turned into evils. Opium is one of these blessings. The immortal Sydenham is said to have stated that he would not practise his pro- fession if he covild not administer opium. Both its blessing and its evils are undoubtedly mostly exercised through the agency of the medical profession. The former cannot be given up because of the latter, so it becomes imperative to use every means to guard against the danger. Unless in the case of a fatal illness a hypodermic injection of morphia should not be given, if it can be done without, or if sufficient relief can be obtained by any other form of medication. A patient should never be allowed to inject himself. A prescription for morphia should never be given if it is possible to avoid doing so; if it is given, an attempt should be made to prevent its repetition without the prescriber's authority. Legislation might aid us in lessen- ing the evil by more rigorous laws regarding the sale of the drug, e.g. great good might be done if it were made illegal for pharmacists to repeat a prescription for morphia (cocaine or chloral) unless it bore the signature of a medical man with date, ordering it to be so repeated, and the renewal should be countersigned by the pharmacist. With the exception of mentioning that in 1897 a French civil law court established a will made by a morphinomaniac,^ we will not go into the medico-legal aspects of the case. ' Jouet, p. 41. 2 Bureau. Report Universal d'ohstet. et de gijncecoL, 25th August 1895. ^ B. M. J., 1897, vol. ii. p. 496. 29