270 MEDICINE, FORENSIC colour, and a bufF-coloured precipitate falls down. 2. Spectroscopic.—Examine the solution by means of a spectroscope—the two bands of oxyhsemoglobin will be seen; add to the same solution a little ammonium sulphide and the oxyhsemoglobin is reduced, one broad band now being seen in place of two. Finally add to another portion of the solution some caustic potash, then ammonium sulphide, and we shall get the characteristic spectrum of reduced hcematin, viz., two bands, one being well defined and practically midway between the lines of D and E, the second not so well defined but broader, situated further towards the violet end of the spectrum. The spectroscopic test con- sists in obtaining not one or other of these spectra, but all three in every case. The hcemin crystal test is applicable to all blood-stains, but will be found more especially suitable when small particles of dried clot have to be examined. The particle to be examined is placed on a microscope slide and a cover-glass placed over it, one side being upheld by a small splinter of wood. Glacial acetic acid is added in abundance and brought to ebullition over a spirit lamp, and then evaporated slowly away. Add a little distilled water, withdraw the splinter of wood, and examine under the ordinary high power of a microscope. Small brown rhomboid crystals will be seen, more especially around the edge of the clot if it has not completely broken down. Ouaiacum Test. — The addition of a little freshly prepared alcoholic guaiacum solution to a stain and then a drop or two of ozonic ether or peroxide of hydrogen produces a blue colour with blood—but also with other substances. Hence it is merely a good preliminary test, and the presence of blood must be otherwise con- firmed. On dark backgrounds the blue colora- tion may be made visible by impressing on the stain thus treated a piece of white blotting- paper or filter-paper. Fresh blood-stains are more or less red in colour, depending upon their thickness and the light in which they are observed. In older stains the haemoglobin becomes transformed into methsemoglobin, and finally hsematin, and at the same time they lose their red colour and become brown. For the same reason a stain in time also becomes more and more insoluble in water. Exposure to heat, chemicals, acids and alkalies, produces the same alteration of the haemoglobin, and thus stains on articles which have been exposed to the weather, or which have been washed in hot water, or with soap, are rendered more permanent and insoluble. Red stains caused by vegetable dyes are easily distinguished from blood-stains; on the one hand, either by applying heat to the red solution obtained after treatment with water, when the characteristic reaction of a blood solu- tion is not afforded, or by adding ammonia, which causes most vegetable dyes to become greenish in colour—blood solutions remaining red. Rust stains are insoluble, and yield none of the reactions of blood. Paint stains are recognised by the ordinary chemical tests for metals. It is impossible to give a definite opinion that certain stains are due to human blood—all we can say is that the blood is mammalian. In regard to the question of the origin of certain stains, e.g. from menstrual blood, any opinion given must be very guarded. In all medico-legal inquiries in regard to blood-stains upon clothing, the possibility of their having arisen from natural causes, siich as previous slight injuries—bleeding from the nose, menstruation, etc.—must be kept in view. In the lowest classes of society the body clothes of the majority of persons will generally show traces of blood-stains of more or less recent origin. Medicine, History of. Introductory ..... 270 Influence op Greece . . . .271 Arabian Medicine .... 273 15th and 16th Centuries . . . 275 17th and 18th Centuries . . . 276 The 19th Century .... 280 In the earliest ages of the human race men could not fail from time to time to discover by accidents —such as that of Elisha's pupils, who gathered colocynths in mistake for gourds—that many fruits and herbs possessed poisonous properties, or to learn the use of those that acted as purgatives, anodynes, narcotics, and perhaps beneficially in less obvious ways. The employ- ment of the same word, cf)a.p/j.aKov, for poisons and medicines alike evinces a rational conception of the action of drugs among the Greeks ; but it is in Egypt that we see the earliest develop- ment of medicine as a profession and an art. There, though not restricted to the priestly caste, it was considered highly honourable. The physicians studied in schools, and were paid by the State, though not debarred from taking fees from the rich. They were permitted to exercise their discretion in departing from the rules of treatment laid down in the books if the patient did not improve by the third day, but did so at their own risk; for should he die, they were liable to an action for malpraxis, which, if established, was a capital off"ence, though the law did not apply to fatal operations in surgery. Specialism was carried to the extreme, for not merely as oculists, aurists, dermatologists, and surgeons, but in every department of medical practice each physician devoted his attention exclusively to diseases of a single organ. A people who practised embalming could have no