NEPHRITIS 536 Cold is one of the most common causes of acute nephritis, especially during exhaustion from work or exercise, or when the skin is actively perspiring. Among the labouring classes the danger is greatest when the work is irregular, leading to great muscular activity and subsequent chill. It has also been frequently produced by cold and wet, affecting those who are heated by hunting or by cycling, while ex- posure after dissipation has also resulted in this disease. Amongst children it is relatively rare to find acute nephritis attributable to cold, imless the individual has previously suffered from one of the exanthemata, notably scarlet fever. Next in importance, as far as etiology is con- cerned, stand various febrile diseases, such as smallpox, measles, erysipelas, typhoid, and pneu- monia. The nephritis caused by these maladies is sometimes slight and abortive, and is limited chiefly to the time of the pyrexia. Such mild cases constitute " Febrile Albuminuria." Occa- sionally, however, acute nephritis associated with these diseases may be accompanied by the more prominent symptoms of the serious malady, such as dropsy and hsematuria. Henoch has recorded four cases of nephritis which were apparently the result of chicken-pox. The frequent connection of these diseases with renal changes has led to the employment of the term "acute infective nephritis." Micro- organisms are, however, absent in most cases of nephritis, and it is generally held that the renal changes are due to the action of toxic materials which result from the growth of specific organ- isms within the body. Numerous drugs may cause acute nephritis, especially those which are eliminated by the kidney, such as cantharides, turpentine, copaiba, phosphorus, and alcohol. Mostly, however, the influence of toxic agents is limited to the pro- duction of temporary congestion, rather than of true nephritis. Extensive injury to the skin by disease, by burns, or by a lightning stroke, may sometimes excite acute nephritis, either by direct inter- ference with the functions of the skin, or by general depression of the temperature of the body. Acute Nephritis after Scarlet Fever.—^ome maintain that albuminuria in the course of scarlet fever indicates structural disease of the kidney, which under adverse circumstances may pass on to the formation of acute and chronic disease. Although the frequency both of albu- minuria and of nephritis must be admitted, there is very little certain knowledge as to the exact causation of nephritis in an individual case, and in some epidemics renal changes are more frequent than in others. Nephritis is said to be especially likely to occur when the cervical glands become secondarily enlarged after once subsiding; the influence of a high fever has also been suggested. The actual severity of the original attack of fever appears to have no causal relation to the production of nephritis ; in fact, my own experience would lead me rather to consider that nephritis is unusually common amongst children in whom the original febrile attack has been slight. Nephritis, as a complication of scarlet fever, is uncommon during the first year of life, and the frequency increases rapidly up to the fifth year, after which time it gradually decreases. It is somewhat more frequent in males (3 to 2), and it is also more fatal to males, while the mortality is greater the younger the patient. The disease usually occurs after the twelfth or fourteenth day, or during the early part of the third week. Occasionally nephritis is not discovered until the fourth, fifth, or sixth week, but in such cases it has probably existed for a greater length of time. The immediate exciting cause of scarlatinal nephritis is generally held to be exposure to cold during desquamation, but recent observations indicate that cold weather per se has very little influence in producing albuminuria. There is, however, an apparent connection with the degree of humidity of the atmosphere. Damp, cold, or muggy days favour the development of fresh cases, while the return of bright weather is frequently accompanied by rapid improvement. The view generally held at the present time is that the renal changes are due to irritation by some toxic material resulting from the growth of micro-organisms in the system. These changes may be almost quiescent until they receive a sudden impulse from the con- gestion brought about in a reflex manner through exposure to cold, or through climatic conditions. Chronic Nephritis Chronic nephritis is usually the result of acute nephritis, and occurs somewhat later in life. Frequently there is a distinct interval between the attack of acute nephritis and the first symptoms of chronic nephritis, though if the urine is tested daily small quantities of albumin may be found, either persistently or occasionally. The symptoms of chronic nephritis are mostly observed between the ages of twenty- five and forty, and in this respect the condition differs essentially from cirrhosis of the kidney (chronic interstitial nephritis), which occurs more commonly between the ages of forty and fifty, or fifty and sixty. Scarlet Fever.—Many cases of chronic nephritis result from acute scarlatinal nephritis, and there is reason to believe that chronic nephritis may even follow this disease without the recog- nition of the acute stage. If the symptoms of scarlatinal nephritis are slight, and if dropsy is not present, the disease may be overlooked, and, in the absence of treatment, may become chronic.