MALARIA 127 substance ; around them the protoplasm arranges itself in such a way as to form a number of small spheres (see Fig. 15, c). In each of these spheres secondary spherules form, each having its little mass of chromatin. Eventually new spheres cease to develop, and chromatin granules become arranged around the periphery of the spheres already formed. These chromatin granules, covered with a layer of pro- toplasm, develop into buds, which elongating cover the surface of the spheres, giv- ing them a hedgehog ap- pearance (see Fig. 15, d). Finally the spheres dis- appear, leaving only elon- gated sickle-shaped bodies (see Fig. 15, e). During this process of development the zygote increases enor- mously in size, attaining a diameter of 40 /x to 60 /i.; a well-defined capsule forms around it, and protrudes into the body cavity from the outer surface of the middle intestine as a sort of wart or hernia. The sickle-shaped bodies, usu- ally in radially disposed groups, distend the capsule. Finally, apparently from over-distension, the capsule ruptures and the sickle- shaped bodies are discharg- ed into the body cavity of the mosquito, and are carried by the body fluid to the salivary glands, where they are filtered out by the cells of the middle lobes. These sickle-shaped bodies are variously called sporo- zoites, blasts, flagellulae, or filiform young (Ray Lan- kester) ; they are believed to be non-motile, about 14 /x in length, and possess one or two masses of nuclear matter in their centre. In sections of the salivary gland they may be seen in enormous numbers in the middle lobe, for the most part crowding the cells around the duct, and in the duct itself as far as the proboscis (see Fig. 15, g). The secondary spheres that develop in the zygotes are called zygotomeres, and when these have developed their elongated buds they are called blasto- phores. The grains of pigment carried by the zygotes persist, and can be seen up to the time of rupture of the capsule. The series