LUNGS, DISEASES 27 OF—TUBERCULOSIS cavities and mucous surface of bi'onchioles—is more directly involved, the resultant process constituting a caseous broncho - pneumonia. This in turn leads to further peribronchial and perivascular involvement, so that it is impossible to separate the conditions completely. Such a caseous broncho-pneumonia may be limited in extension to a small area round a terminal bronchus, or may affect one or more lobules, or may apparently involve an entire lobe. When softening and disintegration go ahead quickly, the clinical phenomena are correspondingly acute (p. 46). This is one type of condition which is sometimes confused with croupous pneumonia On section, the difference between the hmgs is apparent. The lung of caseous pneumonia presents a more uniform, flat, moist surface, while that of croupous pneumonia is granular and dry. Sometimes the affected lung becomes the seat of an abundant serous, gelatinous, almost fibrinous exudation — the so-called " gelatiniform infiltration." The infil- tration is frequently accompanied by caseous patches. We have seen how lesser cavities may con- tract and, finally, cicatrisation ensue. Where softening, liquefaction, and discharge occur in relation to an extensive focus of caseation, larger vomicae result. The granulating surfaces are easily injured, and so bleeding may result. Sufficient shrinkage is more difficult of attain- ment. Hence though contraction occurs up to a certain point, the walls are apt to gape in part, and a greater or smaller cavity continues permanently. The process of excavation may proceed throughout a large part of the lung, until at parts little is left save fibrous trabeculse and bands, outlining cavities as large as a hen's egg or an orange. The cheesy debris which remains in relation to many of these cavities contains tubercle bacilli, often in enormous quantity, and commonly streptococci and diplo- cocci, along with elastic tissue. In regard to the blood-vessels in affected areas, many are obliterated by thrombosis. There may be evidence of ulceration of the vessel wall, which in life may have caused bleeding. In other cases, considerable dilata- tion of one or other branch of the pulmonary artery—an actual aneurysm—may be present in relation to a vomica. Such aneurysms are frequently as large as a ripe black-currant; they may be as large as an olive. The aneurysm occurs on the exposed side of the vessel, and results from lack of support and inflammatory changes in the wall. Rupture of such an aneurysm gives rise to the most serious variety of haemoptysis, which frequently terminates in death. Some degree of emphysema is usually present in more chronic cases. Indeed, this may be so considerable as both in life and post-mortem to obscure the consolidation. In many cases, the emphysematous areas alternate with areas of consolidation. Less or more bronchitis is likely to be discovered. Similarly bronchiectasis may be present, more especially in the case of the smaller bronchi. The pleura is almost certainly involved to a greater or less extent. There may be evidence of recent pleurisy, either fibrinous or sero- fibrinous. Where fluid is present, it may he less or more blood-stained. More commonly there are fibrous adhesions, either general or localised. The pleura is more or less thickened. Sometimes the membrane is inch or more thick and of great density. The trabeculse passing from the thickened pleura into the lung show marked fibrous increase. Where contrac- tion and cicatrisation have occurred in relation to a consolidated area, the overlying pleura presents a puckered aspect. The altered pleura may or may not present evident indication of tuberculous change. In many instances it is simply fibrous. Other cases present tuberculous nodules or scattered miliary tubercle. Empyema is occasionally present. There may be evidence of perforation of the pleura, e.g. in relation to a superficially placed vomica. More than one point of perforation may be foiind. In such case some of the vomica contents may be present along with air (pneumothorax, pyopneumo- thorax), and the lung is more or less collapsed, according to the less or greater amount of fibrosis in the lung and adhesions with the pleura. More rarely, through escape of air into the tissues of the mediastinum or tho- racic wall, subcutaneous emphysema may be present. The bronchial glands are most generally in- volved. They are enlarged, often forming large masses. Caseation is frequent, either in small foci or throughout the entire gland. Softening may be in progress, or have led to rupture into the air-passages, oesophagus, or other structure. At other times the glands are partly calcified. Similar changes may be present in relation to tracheal and mediastinal glands. It may be serviceable to add a few words regarding the lines of distribution of the tubercu- lous process throughout the lung. In the com- monly occurring case of infection by the air- passages, the first deposits are found towards the apex of the upper lobe on one side. This gradually extends downwards. In most cases a similar process commences within a short while at the apex of the other lung. It is not common to find, as is sometimes stated on insufficient clinical evidence, that one lung is greatly in- volved and the other is free of disease. About the same time or sometimes sooner, a similar process may be discovered towards the apex of the lower lobe. This occurs long before the upper lobe has become affected throughout. The usual extension is not, therefore, a con- tinuous one from above downward throughout