MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS 347 inverted uterus must be reduced by manipula- tion, elastic pressure, or surgical operation. If there be subinvolution, ergot and chlorate of potash should be administered, rest enjoined, and saline aperients ordered. In obstinate cases curetting is necessary. (c) If there be an ectopic gestation it should be removed without delay by surgical operation. {d) For metritis and endometritis, bromide of potash, ergot, hydrastis, chlorate of potash, mercury, and iodide of potash may be given internally. Locally, hot antiseptic douches and glycerine and ichthyol tampons are of service. In bad cases the uterus should be curetted, swabbed out with iodised phenol, and packed with iodoform gauze. If there be inflammation of the ovaries or tubes, a similar course of treat- ment is called for, except that curetting in such cases is risky and apt to light up a general peritonitis. If there be evidence of pus, opera- tion is called for, either for the evacuation of the abscess or the removal of the diseased appendages. (e) If the uterus be displaced it should be replaced, and a suitable pessary adjusted. (/) If there be a tumour of the uterus or ovary it should, if possible, be removed by operation, the extent of the operation varying with the nature, site, and size of the new growth. 3. The Arrest of the Hceniorrhcige.—(a) I have already spoken of the importance of absolute rest in bed. In bad cases the foot of the bed should be raised to diminish the blood pressure in the pelvis. (6) Prolonged hot vaginal douches are of great service in checking uterine haemorrhage. They should be given as hot as can be borne, from 115° to 120° F., and frequently repeated. They are of special service in inflammatory cases. (c) Curetting the uterus, swabbing it out with some antiseptic styptic, such as iodised phenol, and packing it with iodoform gauze is of great value, especially in cases of endo- metritis and subinvolution; or styptics may be applied to the interior of the uterus with Play- fair's probes without a preliminary curetting. (d) Packing the cervix with iodoform gauze and the vagina with cotton-wool plugs is some- times called for in emergencies, as in the flood- ings of placenta preevia and uterine cancer. It is a valuable temporary expedient, giving the patient time to rally from a state of collapse and the surgeon time to make his arrangements for a more radical operation. (e) Certain drugs may be administered in- ternally in order to check uterine haemorrhage. Of these, by far the most useful are ergot and hydrastis canadensis. Ergot, given by the mouth or hypodermically, causes powerful con- traction of the muscular fibres of the uterus and of the arterioles. It is frequently given combined with other drugs, such as hydrastis. bromide of potash, strychnine, and chlorate of potash. It is of most value in the haemorrhage of pregnancy and the puerperium, in subinvolu- tion, and endometritis, and myoma. It is use- less in cases of cancer. Hydrastis canadensis seems to act as an astringent to the congested endometrium. Cannabis indica is occasionally useful, but is rather uncertain in its action. A useful combination is the combination, in pill or tabloid form, of ergotin, hydrastinin, and cannabin. Amongst other uterine astringents, given internally, may be mentioned hamamelis, sulphuric acid, and strychnine. (/) Styptics may be applied locally on tampons of wool or Playfair's probes. The most useful of these are tannic acid, perchloride of iron, alum, iodine, chromic acid, nitric acid, and turpentine. In some cases, as in inoperable epithelioma of the cervix, the application of the actual cautery (Paquelin's cautery at a dull, reddish-black heat) is of great service. {g) Chloride of calcium has the power of increasing the coagulability of the blood, and may be given internally (in doses of 10 to 20 grains) or applied locally with this object. (h) Electricity, in the form of the constant current, may be applied to the interior of the uterus in cases of myoma, endometritis, and subinvolution. It is, however, an unsatisfactory remedy and sometimes does more harm than good. (i) When all other measures fail, it may be necessary to remove the appendages, or to perform hysterectomy in order to stop uncon- trollable uterine hasmorrhage. These measures are indicated in severe organic disease of the uterus and appendages, but in other cases should only be performed as the last resource. V. Dysmenorbh(ea Dysmenorrhoea, or painful menstruation, is perhaps the commonest condition the gynaeco- logist is called upon to treat. It must be borne in mind that it is a symptom of many diseases, but not a disease in itself. In perfectly normal menstruation there is no pain; but amongst civilised women, at any rate, the process is generally accompanied by some degree of discomfort. In most cases, however, this is quite bearable, and does not amount to more than a feeling of malaise, with some backache and a sense of fulness in the pelvis. Between such mild cases, and those where the women sufl'er the most horrible agony, there are infinite gradations. We cannot measure pain ; and in some of the milder cases, it is difficult to say if the suffering the patient complains of be really in excess of what is usual in the average healthy woman—whether, in fact, it amounts to dys- menorrhea. The personal factor must also be taken into account. The farmer's wife—a fat, phlegmatic woman, who has lived a whole-