MENINGITIS, TUBERCULOUS AND POSTERIOR BASIC 324 and by the absence of any obvious source of infection, such as is ahnost invariably present with suppurative meningitis, whether it be due to pneumonia, empyema, or to some more general infection, such as pysemia. From " cerebro-spinal meningitis" it shows but slight clinical differences. In its epidemic form cerebro - spinal meningitis affects chiefly the older children and young adults, whereas posterior basic meningitis affects almost ex- clusively infants in the first year of life. The rashes, which are common in the former, are rare in the latter ; and certain minor symptoms, such as conjunctivitis, deafness, and hyper- sesthesia, which are common in " cerebro-spinal meningitis," are rare in the disease of infants ; and, lastly, the cerebro-spinal form would seem to be usually much more acute and more rapid in its fatal issue than posterior basic meningitis. Head retraction, although the most charac- teristic feature of posterior basic meningitis, may occur without any intracranial disease. Reflex irritation from dentition, or from inflam- mation in the middle ear, may cause marked head retraction. Dyspnoea also in infants, whether due to disease in the chest or to fluid or solid tumour, filling up the abdomen and interfering with the action of the diaphragm, is sometimes associated with retraction of the head, probably to facilitate the use of the extra- ordinary muscles of respiration. In rare cases head retraction is an early symptom of cervical caries. Both head retraction and rigidity of limbs are sometimes seen with chronic en- cephalitis after injury, and also in some cases of idiocy. Treatment. — In some of the cases which have recovered, inunction of the unguentum hydrargyri has been used, and it seems possible that both mercury and potassium iodide may promote absorption of the meningeal exudation, an important indication in this disease; for, as already pointed out, the mere mechanical effects of the exudation and the resulting adhesions may be more serious than the actual meningitis. The persistent vomiting may be checked in some cases by the application of an ice-bag to the back of the head and neck, or minute doses of dilute hydrocyanic acid may be tried. Every effort should be made to maintain nutrition. If necessary, nasal feeding must be used, for complications, such as diarrhoea and broncho- pneumonia, are more likely to occur if the infant becomes emaciated. In the prolonged cases also the occurrence of bed-sores must be guarded against. Extract of malt or cod-liver oil is valuable in these cases and also in con- valescence, for even in the favourable cases there is generally much wasting before the subsidence of symptoms. During the last few years attempts have been made to treat this disease surgically ; and there are,some grounds for believing that in cases where the meningitis has subsided, and the con- tinuance of symptoms is due to the resulting hydrocephalus, surgical treatment may occasion- ally be successful. No good has resulted from surgical interference during the early stage of the disease; but in one case improvement, and in another case a cure, has been obtained by drainage of the lateral ventricles several weeks after the onset of the illness. Recently, in accordance with the suggestion of Dr. Sutherland and Mr. Watson Cheyne, attempts have been made to establish a permanent communication between the lateral ventricles and the subdural space, whence the fluid may be removed by the Pacchionian bodies ; external drainage is thus entirely avoided. The results, however, have been disappointing ; whichever method of drain- age has been adopted there is a tendency to hyperpyrexia, which often proves fatal a few hours after the operation. Whether surgical interference is advisable in any particular case must depend chiefly upon the presence or absence of symptoms of increas- ing hydrocephalus, and upon the general con- dition of the infant. In any case it is only right to warn the parents that in the majority of cases the operation has been followed by a fatal result within a few days. (See also "Hydrocephalus," vol. iv.) Mening^itis, Epidemic Cerebro- spinal. Definition ...... 324 History ....... 324 Characters of the Fever . . . 325 Sporadic Form .... 325 Bacteriology ...... 326 Symptoms ...... 326 Diagnosis 330 (a) From other Diseases . . . 330 (b) From other Forms of Meningitis . 330 Prognosis . . . • . .331 Treatment ...... 331 Cerebro-Spinal Fever Definition.—An acute, infectious disease, with the clinical characters of a cerebro-spinal menin- gitis, recurring in epidemics, and constantly present in sporadic form in many communities. There is associated with it a specific organism— the diplococcus intracellularis of Weichselbaum. History.—The disease was recognised first in 1805 in Geneva by Vieusseaux, though pre- vious to this, in histories of epidemics, cases are described of a similar character. In 1806 the disease was recognised in the United States, where it soon became widely prevalent. Hirsch divides the outbreak into the following periods:— First, 1805 to 1830—more prevalent in the United States than in Europe. Second, 1837 to 1850 — in many parts of Europe, and in the United States.