142 MALARIA from time to time should suffice to prevent them being mistaken for malaria. Typhoid fever may closely resemble remittent malarial fever, and sometimes cannot be distinguished from it without the aid of blood examinations and the Widal reaction. Unfortunately, the Widal reaction does not give positive results until after the sixth day of the illness. The gradual onset of the fever, the marked pro- dromal symptoms, epistaxis, deafness, ladder- like rise of temperature and roseola, if present, would all point to typhoid. There is an absence of leucocytosis in both diseases, but the presence of pronounced anaemia would be evidence in favour of malaria. The urine of typhoid fever usually gives the diazo reaction, especially when the fever is at its highest point. Microscopical examination of the blood is conclusive as to the presence or absence of malaria, but it does not exclude typhoid ; the concurrence of the two diseases is occasionally met with. Yellow fever may be mistaken for the bilious, remittent form of malaria. The chief points to be relied upon are the albuminuria of yellow fever, the slow pulse, the characteristic fever with sthenic onset and period of calm, and also its epidemic occur- rence and limited geographical range. Cerebro-spinal fever might be mistaken for malarial fever, but the presence of rigidity of the neck muscles, Kernig's sign, and the pres- ence of the diplococcus intracellularis meningi- tidis obtained by lumbar puncture are enough to establish a diagnosis. Comatose pernicious attacks may closely simulate coma from any other cause, such as cerebral hsemorrhage, alcohol, ursemia, diabetes, and poisoning by opium or other narcotics. In the absence of previous history, and without blood examination, the diagnosis may be im- possible, although the examination of the urine and pupils may afford some indication as to the causation. A hyperpyrexial attack of pernicious malaria may be very misleading when occurring in a district endemic to siriasis or thermic fever. This form of sunstroke can be diagnosed by the prodromal symptoms, previous history, condition of spleen, and, most important of all, by negative blood examinations. Malarial cachexia may be mistaken for any of the secondary ansemias, such as occur in Bright's disease, cancer, tertiary syphilis, etc., or for pernicious antemia, splenic anjemia, or for splenic leuksemia. Care should be taken not to assume too hastily that because a patient is cachectic, and has suffered from malaria, that his cachexia is due to malaria. The amblyopia of malaria has to be diagnosed from that which may follow on toxic doses of quinine. In malarial amblyopia the onset is not usually sudden, although it may be so if hemorrhage has occurred in the macular region ; both eyes are not necessarily affected ; loss of vision is incomplete, and there is some reaction to light. It may terminate in optic neuritis. In quinine amblyopia the drug will have been taken in large doses of not less than 30 grains; the onset is sudden, both eyes ai'e affected, vision is completely lost for a time; the pupils are widely dilated, and inactive to light as long as the loss of vision continues. Ophthalmoscopic examination will reveal a white haze over the fundus, with a cherry-red spot at the macular region. The optic disc will be pale from con- striction of the retinal vessels, and usually remains abnormally white. Central vision is the first to return ; but there is usually a defect in the field of vision, or some degree of colour blindness. Morbid Anatomy Blood.—The primary and essential morbid changes take place in the blood ; those that are found in the internal organs are secondary. The blood of malaria has the characters of an oligocythsemia, and also of a hsemoglobinsemia. The oligocythsemia is due to the destruction of the red cells by the parasites; this has been already described when dealing with parasitology. The haeraoglobinsemia, however, is not so easily explained, for it is much greater than can be accounted for by the number of red cells actually destroyed. Manson suggests that the excess- ive hsemoglobinsemia is due to the presence of a toxin which has the power of dissolving the haemoglobin from the red cells, and which is elaborated by the malarial parasite, and set free in the blood at the time of sporulation. The existence of this toxin, however, has not yet been proven. Figmerit.—Before describing the post-mortem appearance of the internal organs it will be well to say a few words with regard to the pigment, which is such a constant and striking feature of malarial infection. There are two kinds of pigment met with, namely, the black or melanin variety, and the yellow or pigment ochre of Kelsch and Kiener. The black pigment is pathognomic of malaria, being elaborated from the haemoglobin by the malarial parasite. It exists as fine grains, or as short rods or in dense blocks. The colour varies between black, reddish black, or yellowish brown. It is in- soluble in strong acids, but soluble in alkalis, especially in ammonia, but it does not give the iron reaction. It is found chiefly in the spleen, liver, bone-marrow, and brain, less frequently in the lymphatic glands at the hilus of the liver. The yellow pigment is not found exclusively in malaria; it is, in fact, evidence merely of rapid haemolyptic changes in the blood. It is seen in pernicious anaemia, backwater fever, poisoning by certain chemicals, such as chlorate of potash and arseniate of hydrogen. It gives the iron reaction, but it is insoluble in acids,