206 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF After cutting into a cancer, the danger of infection of the surrounding tissues with the blood and juices which escape from the tumour is not a mere theoretical one. On no account is the same knife which is employed for the exploration to be used for the rest of the opera- tion, unless it be thoroughly purified. Mr. Cheyne objects to an exploratory incision into favour of the latter, in which dry swabs and dry sheets are used, and in which no fluid of any kind is applied to the wound. The advan- tages of such a practice are :—The patient is not chilled by any evaporation from damp sheets or towels; no swabbing is required to remove lotions applied to the wound; there is less bleeding, as the natural arrest of haemorrhage takes place more ^ -— ~ ~ readily; time is saved during the operation; there is less reactionary serous exudation, and therefore less necessity for drain- age ; there is less simple reactionary fever—indeed, fre- quently there is none at all. Cancer of the breast is by no means the incur- able disease it wa^ formerly con- sidered to be. The percentage of cures has progressively increased as the spread of the dis- ease and the ex- tent of the operative interference necessary for its adequate treatment have become better known. Sir James Paget stated that in his own practice he did not know of a single case of cure. Billroth's statistics, the best up to that date, gave a percentage of 4'7 cxires in 143 cases operated upon between 1867 and 1876. " The results of the more radical operations Fig. 27.—Vertical slice through a diffuse carcinoma of the mamma, treated with nitric acid. The whole corpus mammae is cancerous, and there are numerous foci of cancer disseminated throughout the para- mammary fat, under the areola, and in and immediately beneath the mammary integument. The nipple is retracted. the swelling, on the ground that the cancer cells that are set free from the cut surface of the tumour infect the fingers of the operator as well as the skin of the patient and the sur- roundings generally ; he recommends that " the suspected swelling should be excised along with an area of apparently healthy tissue around," and that it should be cut into, away from the imme- diate vicinity of the operation, by some one not directly associ- ated with the operation. When the bleeding has been stopped, the wound is stuffed with gauze or a small sponge, and then securely stitched up. The skin of the operator and of the patient, as well as the instruments em- ployed, should be redisinfected. Probably most surgeons would not hesitate to cut into the tumour, provided the wound be subsequently completely closed, and the opera- tor's hands and the skin of the patient thoroughly disinfected. An incision into the swelling is almost invariably sufficient to enable an ex- perienced surgeon to settle the question of malignancy. As regards the prevention of wound infection, the writer, after considerable experience of the antiseptic and aseptic techniques, both in hospital and private practice, is strongly in 0 Fig.28 Peripheral slice of a mamma showing cancerous foci disseminated (in the para- mammary fat) upon the cut surface made by the surgeon while excising the organ. performed by Konig, Kiister, Gross, Banks, Estlander, and Gussenbauer, show from 16'7 to 22"5 per cent of permanent cures, the average being 20-8 " (Keene and White, Text-Book of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 1065). Curtiss, who col- lected statistics of the results of 1213 opera- tions for breast cancer, reported from European cliniques between 1888 and 1893, found that 22 per cent remained free from local recurrence or metastasis for three years or more. Taking