MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 175 puberty; in them it is brought about more frequently by slight traumatisms, or by gym- nastic exercises involving over-action of the pectoral muscles. In both sexes it is rare for the congestion to pass on to abscess-formation ; when this complication occurs it is due to the entrance of pyogenic organisms into the gland, either by way of the ducts or through an abrasion of the nipple. In unhealthy sub- jects, however, the congested breast affords a locus minoris resistentiai for hgematogenic in- fection. Puerperal Mastitis.—Acute mastitis is rarely met with in the adult resting gland. When it does occur, it commonly results from a con- tusion followed, in an unhealthy sub- ject, by hfemato- genic infection with a pyogenic organ- ism. It is during lactation that acute mastitis is so liable to occur; during pregnancy it is far less common. In studying puerperal mastitis it is im- portant to distin- guish between the simple (non-infect- ive) and the sup- purative (infective) forms. The former is merely a diffuse or localised engorge- ment with con- gestion of the breast, brought about either by a sudden excessive secretion of milk, or by its retention, which may be due to blocking of the ducts, to the death of the infant, or to the inability of the mother to nurse the child. Clinically, the afFected area, sometimes the whole breast, is painful and swollen, while to the feel it is firm, knotty, and very tender. The skin may be slightly reddened and the veins are always dilated. The temperature is slightly elevated, reaching from 100° to 102° F. ; the patient feels shivery, but there are no distinct rigors. The first point to attend to in the treatment is to withdraw the milk, if possible, by placing an infant to the breast, and, failing this, by the careful application of a breast-pump. A hot boracic lint poultice, besides being comfort- ing to the patient, may bring about spontaneous escape of milk by softening and removing any epithelial plugs or crusts which may be blocking the orifice of the duct. The breast should be supported by either a triangular handkerchief or a suspensory bandage, and, if necessary, the patient must be kept recumbent with the breast supported by a soft cushion placed between the arm and the chest. If nursing has to be abandoned, the milk secretion should be arrested by the internal administration of iodide of potassium, combined, if necessary, with small doses of atropine. A saline purgative is administered daily, and the patient is put upon as dry a diet as possible. Should one of the lobes remain indurated, involution may be aided by gentle massage combined with the inunction of dilute nitrate of mercury ointment. If the induration per- sists, the breast should be carefully strapped with strips of plaster in order to keep up compression. Fig. 6.—From the mamma of a full-time female foetus, to show the secretion of milk, a, Epidermis covering the areola; h, site of future nipple; c, lactiferous ducts; d, terminal ducts widely dis- e, acini arranged in lobular cluster around a dilated duct; /, lymphoid cells; g, fibrous off processes into surrounding fat; I, fat behind mamma ; tended; stroma; h, fat; fc, capsule giving m, pectoral fascia. The suppttrative (infective) form of p>uerperal mastitis is by far the commonest cause of acute mammary abscess. The combined statistics, gathered from Birkett, Nunn, Bryant, Jamain and Terier, and Sheild, amounting in all to 799 cases of mammary abscess, show that of these 617 (77"2 per cent) occurred during lactation. As chronic abscesses are here included, we may say that 4 out of every 5 cases of mam- mary abscess occur during lactation, and of these the majority occur during the first two months after parturition. Of the 102 cases collected by Bryant, only 2 occurred during pregnancy; while of the 72 cases recorded by Nunn, 7 occurred during pregnancy. Both breasts are aff'ected with about equal frequency. The infective agent or exciting cause is generally the staphylococcus aureus, less fre- quently the streptococcus pyogenes, occasion- ally the gonococcus. Among the more prob- able sources of infection may be mentioned an unhealthy state of the infant's umbilicus, infantile furunculosis, ophthalmia neonatorum, and vaginal discharges, either leucorrhoeal or gonorrhoeal. Pathologists and clinicians, how-