MEDICINE, FORENSIC 257 feet, and this fact under most circumstances should always raise the suspicion of homicide. The fact that two gun-shot wounds are found in the body is not inconsistent with suicide, even when both are fatal wounds and both are in the head. Such cases are recorded, also one where a suicide discharged two chambers of a revolver at his chest, both shots wounding the heart. These facts show that the greatest care must be exercised in the examination of wounds from fire-arms, and that a decision as to their mode of causation can only be arrived at after a consideration of all the circumstances. The projectile should always be carefully sought for; it may have passed through the body, or still be found in it. Even when a weapon has been discharged close to the body, the bullet does not always make an exit, as, for example, frequently occurs in the case of wounds of the skull. In such cases the bullet, greatly deformed or even split up into pieces, may be found lying loose in the brain or cranial cavity, or it may be impacted in the bone opposite to the entrance wound. If no bullet is found, this may be due to none having been used, it having been forgotten in the agitation of the moment of loading, and such a fact is again presumptive of suicide. In these cases the wad or even the force of the explosion may be sufficient to fracture the skull and cause death. The immediate cause of death in wounds from fire-arms may be injury of some vital organ, shock or haemorrhage; and at later periods, secondary haemorrhage and inflamma- tory processes may produce a fatal result. Burns.—Burns are produced by the action of flame or radiant heat, or from contact with hot solids such as metals. Scalds result from heated liquids and produce similar effects. Corrosive acids may produce injuries of the skin like those caused in burns. Burns may vary in degree, from those causing simple redness of the skin to complete charring or destruction of the soft tissues. The cause of death in burns may be due to their extent or to shock, or owing to injury to a vital organ. If the immediate eff'ects are recovered from, death may occur in the course of a few days from internal inflammation or congestion— meningitis, pneumonia, and at a later stage, as a result of exhaustion, suppuration, secondary haemorrhage, sepsis, etc. Death sometimes occurs, after the lapse of three or four weeks, from perforation of a duodenal ulcer. Large superficial burns, of even the slightest degree, are specially dangerous to life, while burns are also very fatal in the young and aged. In general conflagrations, death may have been due to causes other than burning, viz., to asphyxia, from the gases of combustion, COj VOL. VI and CO, or from pressure on the chest in attempting, along with others, to escape from the building; to injuries caused by being trampled upon, or by falling beams, etc.; or lastly, death may have resulted from syncope or shock as a result of fright. It must also be kept in view that burning may have been resorted to in cases of murder, in order to conceal the effects of violence. In making a post-mortem examination, there- fore, these possibilities must be kept in view. The charred bodies of those who have perished in fires are rigid, due to " heat stiffening," and the limbs are frequently contorted and fixed in strange positions. Large gashes or rents in the skin and sub- cutaneous tissues, as well as fractures of the skull, may result simply from the effects of the heat, and must not be mistaken for the result of violence; these appearances are due to bursting or cracking of skin and bone which has been charred by the flame or heat, and are to be distinguished from the effects of violence by the fact that, in the case of soft structures, while the tissues may appear to have been divided by a cutting instrument, the sides of the wound are irregular and connected by bridges of the more resistant structures, such as arteries, tendons, etc., while in addition, the subcutaneous tissues frequently show no sign of burning or of vital reaction. The nature of the fractures in the skull cannot be definitely determined when there is great charring. The fact that death has resulted from burn- ing will be determined by the character and extent of the burns along with the evidence of their having been caused during life. The internal appearances found post-mortem con- sist of congestion of various internal organs, especially the brain, lungs, and kidneys; the blood is coagulated, and is frequently of a brighter colour than usual; this alteration in colour occurs apart from the presence of CO haemoglobin, and arises simply from the action of heat. Death may, however, not have been due to burning, but to some of the other causes mentioned above. This will be indicated by the absence of signs of vital reaction in the burns, together with evidence of death having been caused in other ways, as, for example, by asphyxia, indicated by the presence of CO in the blood, and particles of soot, etc., in the air- passages ; from injuries received from falling beams, crushing and trampling under foot, etc., when these injuries are of a fatal character and show evidence of having been caused during life. Distinction between Burns caused during Life and after Death.—As a rule the burn caused during life can be recognised, except when the parts are much charred, by the presence of signs of vital reaction, hyperaemia, swelling, etc.