340 MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS engorgement in the uterus and appendages which is such a marked feature of menstruation. The position of the menstrual centre can only be surmised, but it is probable that it is situated in the lumbar enlargement of the spinal cord. This portion of the cord is intimately associated with all the pelvic functions. It has been proved to contain, in the human being, centres for micturition, defecation, erection, and ejacula- tion. Experiments in animals have demon- strated that it contains a parturition centre in the bitch, and there is probably one there also in the woman. And if the parturition centre be found there, the menstrual centre will not be far away. The Menopause.—The "menopause," "climac- teric," or " change of life " is essentially charac- terised by the cessation of the menses. Of women living in a temperate climate, in 25 per cent it occurs between the age of forty and forty-five, and in 50 per cent between forty-five and fifty. In a small minority of cases it occurs under forty or over fifty. It takes place later in women living in cold than in hot climates, and later in those who live a luxurious, lazy life than in the hard-working poor. Jewesses living in this country have the change some- what earlier than other women. It is the autumn of a woman's life. Her summer with its blossom and fruit has passed ; her reproductive forces have spent themselves. She begins to feel the burden of years and the approach of old age. The menses cease sometimes abruptly, more often gradually. The periods become irregular —the flow being sometimes excessive, some- times scanty. The intermenstrual intervals alter, usually becoming more and more pro- longed. In some women there is nearly con- stant dribbling of blood, alternating with severe floodings. This period of irregular fitful losses is often spoken of as the "dodging time." The woman's figure alters and loses much of its grace. Most women put on fat, especially in the abdomen. Occasionally this is so marked as to suggest pregnancy or abdominal tumour. Others, especially if they be unmarried, become lean and scraggy. The skin loses its bloom and fineness of texture, and becomes coarse, opaque, and wrinkled. In a few cases the figure becomes more masculine, and straggling hairs develop on the chin, cheek, or upper lip. The breasts become either shrunk and atrophied or loaded with fat. The fat about the vulva disappears, and the labia become flaccid folds of skin. The ostium vaginae becomes smaller, and all the tissue of the external genitals tougher and less resilient. The vagina becomes shorter, narrower, smoother, and less elastic. The upper end of the vagina contracts, and the fornices tend to become obliterated. The uterus atrophies—becomes shorter, narrower, less vascular, and diminished in weight. The cervix projects less into the vagina. The en- dometrium becomes paler, thinner, and more fibrous, and the glands disappear. The ovaries become small, hard, and wrinkled; the Graafian follicles disappear; and the stroma contracts into a knot of dense fibrous tissue. Coincident with these physical changes there are marked nervous, especially vasomotor, dis- turbances. The most frequent phenomena are heats and flushes, irregular palpitations, profuse perspirations, and feelings of giddiness, faint- ness, and exhavistion. There may be morbid fears, mental depression, loss of memory, and irritability of temper. She may complain of numbness and tingling in her hands and feet. At other times there is a condition of hyper- sesthesia of the special senses, so that noises, smells, and lights, which formerly she would not have noticed, distress and agitate her. In some cases the mental disturbance verges on insanity : she becomes suspicious of those around her; has fixed delusions, and suicidal or homicidal impulses. In others there is marked moral perversion, especially a craving for alcohol. With the cessation of the menses, the sexual appetite usually wanes, but in a few cases it becomes distressingly intense. The climacteric renders a woman peculiarly liable to certain diseases. Among these may be mentioned cancer (especially of the uterus and breast), pruritus vulvae, prolapse of the vagina and uterus, urethral caruncle, kraurosis vulvae, disorders of digestion (such as nausea, heart- burn, flatulence, and constipation), some forms of insanity, gout, and diabetes. (See " Climac- teric Insanity," vol. ii., and " Menopause.") The change of life may be induced pre- maturely by—-(1) The complete removal of the uterus, or both uterine appendages by operation. (2) The complete functional destruction of both ovaries by disease, such as advanced cirrhosis, new growths, and inflammation. (3) Any cause of great nervous depression, such as shock, fright, anxiety, and exposure to cold. (4) Ex- hausting diseases, such as phthisis, prolonged haemorrhages, acute fevers, chronic alcoholism, myxoedema, and diabetes. The climacteric may be delayed much beyond the normal, usually in consequence of some local pelvic disease, such as myoma, cancer, or endometritis. Vicarious Menstruation.—By this is meant a discharge, usually of blood, from some part other than the uterus, occurring once a month, and apparently taking the place of the normal menstrual discharge. In most of these cases menstruation proper is very scanty or entirely in abeyance. It is a rare and puzzling condi- tion, and its etiology is obscure. It is supposed (1) that there is some morbid condition of the uterine mucosa which interferes with the natural outpouring of menstrual blood ; (2) that there is at each period a condition of high