MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS 343 amenorrhoea. This is especially apt to occur when both ovaries are affected. After severe double oophoritis and in cases of advanced sclerosis of the ovaries, menstrua- tion may entirely cease. In these cases there is complete destruction of the ovaries as functional organs. Amenorrhoea from Ance7nia. — The most fre- quent causes of amenorrhoea, exclusive of preg- nancy, are those due to debilitating diseases which impoverish the blood. Such are tubercu- losis, Bright's disease, malaria and other fevers, syphilis, and especially chlorosis. All these dis- eases produce more or less anjemia ; and it is the anaemia, rather than any specific effect of the dis- ease on the uterus, which causes the amenorrhoea. Chlorosis is a disease which has some mysteri- ous relationship to the functions of the female sexual organs. It never occurs in the male sex, and is peculiar to adolescent females. It is most common between the ages of fifteen and twenty years. It is seldom seen in married women, and hardly ever in those who have borne children. It is most apt to occur in the ill-fed, overworked girls of large towns, who sleep and labour under insanitary conditions. Amongst accessory causes are want of outdoor exercise, want of sunshine, tight lacing, and disappointment in love. It is characterised by pallor—in advanced cases, of a greenish-yellow tint—breathlessness and palpitation on exercise, constipation, indigestion, and amenorrhoea. Loud hsemic murmurs are heard over the heart and root of the neck. The essential change in the blood is a remarkable diminution of hajmoglobin, together with a slight diminution in the number of red corpuscles. Amenorrhoea from Nervous Disturbances.—In some young women a mere change of environ- ment will arrest the periods. Thus a long sea- voyage, a visit to the Continent, a change of residence from the country to the town or vice versa, will bring on amenorrhoea—usually only temporary—without any other signs of disease. It is probable that this amenorrhoea is brought about by nervous influences. A violent nervous shock, such as suddenly receiving bad news, may cause temporary or permanent cessation of the menses. Probably also severe chills, as from exposure to cold and wet, act through the nervous system in causing a passing amenorrhoea. In certain forms of insanity, especially melancholia, and the in- sanity of adolescence, there is often suppression of the menses. In cases of " pseudo-cyesis" where, by a process of auto-suggestion, the patient believes herself to be pregnant, there is not only amenorrhoea, but a remarkable simulation of the other symptoms of pregnancy. Thus a young, recently-married woman, who ardently desires to have a child, ceases to men- struate and imagines she has conceived. Her abdomen and breasts swell, she suffers from morning sickness, and may even fancy she feels the foetal movements. She consults a medical man, who examines her and finds an absolutely normal non-gravid uterus. Or an uimiarried woman, who in a weak moment has permitted coitus to take place, becomes alarmed less she be pregnant. Her fright itself brings about a stoppage of the periods, and this in turn intensifies her mental distress. At last, in desperation, she consults a medical man, who examines her, but finds no sign of pregnancy. Amenorrhoea from Disordered Metabolism.— There are certain cases of amenorrhoea which are associated with obesity and with plethora. It is probable that the amenorrhoea neither causes nor is caused by either of these condi- tions, but that both sets of phenomena are expressions of a disturbance of the general metabolism. We may suppose that in such cases the anabolic forces of the body acquire undue predominance, whilst the katabolic in- fluences are in abeyance. This abnormal ana- bolism leads to an excessive building up of adipose tissue, or to an excessive formation of blood; whilst menstruation, being a katabolic process, is suppressed. It is possible that this disturbance of the balance of anabolism and katabolism is due to some fault in the internal secretion of the ovary. Whatever be the ex- planation, there can be no doubt of the clinical facts, viz., that we not infrequently see cases of amenoi-rhoea associated with excessive obesity and (though more rarely) with a tendency to plethora. It is probable that the amenorrhoea of myxoedema is to be accounted for in a similar fashion, viz., as an expression of a disturbance of metabolism. Treatment of Primary Amenorrhcea. — (1) Due to Anosmia.—We must improve the quality of the patient's blood, and try and remove the cause of the general debility. Thus chlorosis must be treated with iron and arsenic, saline aperients, good food, and fresh air. In cases of tuberculosis, cod-liver oil, iodide of iron, and the hypophosphites are indicated. In Bright's disease, diuretics, diaphoretics, and aperients should be given as required, whilst rest, milk diet, and avoidance of cold and wet must be enjoined. When the symptoms of the general disease subside and the quality of the blood improves, signs of puberty will manifest them- selves, and menstruation become established. (2) In cases of amenorrhoea due to mental or physical overstrain, the treatment is simple : we must remove the cause. Rest must be given in the one case to the overtaxed brain, and in the other to the exhausted body, and in due course puberty will appear. All who are placed in charge of girls, such as mothers and school-mistresses, should be warned of the evils that may follow either mental or physical over- work at this period of a girl's life.