341 MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS vascular tension; and (3) that in consequence of some weakness of the capillaries in another part of the body, hsemorrhage there occurs. It has been observed from the gums, the nose, the stomach, the rectum, the lungs, the bladderj the breast, the conjunctiva, the unbroken skin, and from open wounds and ulcers. In some cases, in place of a flow of blood, there is a monthly discharge of milk (in the case of the breasts) or diarrhoea (in the case of the bowels). The Hygiene of Menstrual Life 1. Puberty.—At this period of a girl's life it is important that she be not subjected to any great mental or physical strain. She must lead as quiet and even a life as possible, be warmly clad, have a simple, easily digested dietary, take moderate exercise in the open air, and regulate her bowels. It is advisable at this time that her mother or some judicious friend should explain to her the meaning of the menstrual flow, and impart to her some of the rudimentary facts of sexual physiology. (See " Puberty.") 2. The Menstrual Period.—Although this is a physiological process, it is so frequently dis- ordered and painfTil that it is commonly looked upon as a pathological condition. The patient describes herself as "being unwell" or "being poorly." It is important that during men- struation she should rest as much as possible in the recumbent position if the periods be ex- cessive or painful. She should take light, unstimulating diet, and see that her bowels are kept freely open. All severe nervous strain or muscular exertion must be avoided. Locally she must keep the genitals as clean as possible by bathing the vulva in warm water, and changing her diapers when soiled. Many women have a foolish objection to washing themselves during their periods; but a w^arm bath is not only harmless, but soothing and beneficial at these times. A warm vaginal douch (at 100" F.), to which a little boracic acid has been added, is often comforting during the period. It is not advisable to perform any surgical operation—unless it be imperative— during menstruation, as the woman's nervous system is in an excitable, hypersensitive con- dition. Moreover, the menstrual secretion is an excellent culture medium for germs, and might be a source of sepsis. In particular, operations on the uterus should be avoided, as these organs are in a turgid, excitable state, and thus prone to bleed or become inflamed. The best time to operate on a woman is usually during the week after menstruation has ceased. 3. The Menopause.—We have now, as a rule, marked nervous disturbances, heats and flushes, palpitations, depression of spirits, etc. The patient must be encouraged as much as possible, and assured that these symptoms which so distress her are natural and to be expected at her time of life, that she must have patience, and in due season they will all subside. If they be severe, much relief may be obtained by administering bromide of potash with bella- donna, and, if this fails, by giving tabloids of ovarian tissue. She must be warned not to take alcohol, the temptation to take stimulants being very great at the menopause. Her medical attendant must ever bear in mind how prone women are at this time to develop malignant disease, especially in the breast and uterus. He must, therefore, insist on a thorough examination should the patient mani- fest any symptom of this dreadful malady. Amenorrhcea. — By amenorrhoea we mean absence or suppression of the menstrual flow. It must not be confounded with " retention of the menses "—a condition in which the menstrual blood is poured out, but, from atresia of part of the genital canal, cannot find exit and collects within the body. It is convenient to distinguish between primary and secondary amenorrhoea. Primary amenorrhoea signifies the absence of the menses in a woman who has never menstruated. Secondary amenorrhoea means the cessation of the menses, temporarily or permanently, after the onset of puberty and the regular establishment of the monthly flow. I. Primary Amenorrhcea.—It would seem that for the normal occurrence of puberty three factors are necessary: (1) A normal condition of the blood. (2) A normal condition of the nerve centres. (3) A normal develop- ment of the internal genitals. If any of these factors be at fault the menses may fail to appear. We shall, therefore, consider cases of primary amenorrhoea under three headings : (a) Those due to faults in the blood. {h) Those due to nervous disturbances, (c) Those due to errors of development. (a) Primary Amenorrhoea due to Faults in the Blood.—Certain debilitating diseases, such as tuberculosis, Bright's disease, and chlorosis may develop before the normal age of puberty. When the time for this arrives, the blood is so impoverished that the processes necessary for the production of menstruation cannot take place. Puberty is delayed for months or years. When, finally, the periods do appear, they are apt to be irregular, occurring at long intervals and lasting only a few hours, the discharge being scanty in amount and pale in colour. (b) Primary Amenorrhoea due to Nervous Causes.—This is apt to occur in two classes of the community — (1) Amongst the upper classes in girls who are subject to mental over- work, such as cramming for examinations. (2) Amongst the lower classes in girls who are put to physical labour too great for their strength. In these cases the blood may be