LUNACY 16 but if they are registered lunatics, all the regu- lations applicable to registered private lunatics apply to them. The medical attendant visits four times a year and makes entries.^ All curatory patients—a list of whom is furnished to the General Board by the accountant of the Court of Session — whether sanctioned or not, are visited once a year by a Visiting Commissioner. If a medical man certifies a private patient, he cannot keep him for profit. Kelatives declining to take steps to get a curator bonis appointed when it is clear that course is necessary, the Board is empowered by statute to intervene in the interests of the individual and his property. In the case of private as well as curatory patients, the decli- nature on the part of relatives to act is due to a hesitancy, which is intelligible, to do any- thing to injure their prospects as beneficiaries in the event of recovery. Patients in Ireland.—Before a patient can be sent to a private licensed asylum two separate medical certificates in general terms are neces- sary. When it is proposed to send a paying patient to a district asylum two medical certifi- cates setting forth the facts are required. In Ireland, Chancery practice is much the same as in England so far as the medical affidavits are concerned. In connection with the admission of the in- sane and destitute a certificate from a registered medical practitioner setting forth the facts is needed. This should be the ordinary method of admission to Irish asylums ; but it is not made use of to anything like the extent it should be, partly on account of the overcrowding of Irish asylums, and from the fact that no public official is held responsible for the correct filling up of the forms required by this mode of procedure. And thus it is that the patients are made quasi-criminals. In such cases the medical officer of the dispensary district certifies in general terms, and failing him, the medical officer of the nearest dispensary district. Lunacy Administration.—In England and Scotland the powers and duties of the Central (the Limacy Commissions) and Local Authorities (District Lunacy Boards, etc.. Boards of Guar- dians and Parish Councils) are admirably set forth in two memoranda, furnished in 1899 to the Royal Commission on Local Taxation by the respective secretaries of the English and Scottish Lunacy Commissions, Mr. H. F. Giffard and Mr. T. W. L. Spence (Minutes of Evidence, vol. iv., apps. xiii. and xiv.). An instructive memorandum, re lunacy administration in Ire- land, is supplied to the same Commission by Mr. Smith of the oifice of Lunatic Asylums, Ireland. The Irish system differs greatly from the English and Scottish, and little or nothing 1 Visiting book is supplied by the Board free of charge. has been effected on the legislative lines recom- mended by the Royal Commission of 1890-91 to bring Ireland into line with the other two sections of the kingdom, except extensive changes for the better efl^ected under the Local Govern- ment (Ireland) Act, 1898, in the administration of district asylums, provision for the accom- modation of chronic and harmless lunatics in disused workhouses; and an additional capita- tion grant of 2s. per week which is given in aid of the maintenance of chronic and harmless lunatics to be accommodated in the auxiliary asylums to be set up. County Councils now manage the district asylums; the Central Board of Control and Correspondence and the Asylum Boards of Governors have been abolished. The duties of the Inspectors of Lunatics in Ireland are much the same as the Commissioners in England and Scotland, but it is doubtful if they possess the same enforcing powers. Sir George Plunkett O'Farrell, one of the Inspectors of Lunacy for Ireland, informs the writer that the establishment of "auxiliary" asylums for lunatics at present in workhouses is the only recommendation of the Royal Commission of 1891 given effect to by legislation. Much re- mains to be done in Ireland, not least some alteration of the mandatory reception order, by which 70 per cent of the total admissions enter asylums as " dangerous" and quasi-criminal lunatics, when in no sense does such a term apply. The Insane in Private Dwellings. — In England 441 private single patients were pro- vided for in this way—as a rule, one such patient being in residence; but the Commis- sioners may permit a person detaining a single patient to detain another, or more than one, and in such case each of the patients will be considered as a "single patient." These are visited once every year by a Commissioner or a medical substitute, who is a medical visitor for the county or burgh in which a single patient resides, and he is armed with full powers. In England, in 1899, 4969 or 5-3 per cent of the insane chargeable to unions were in residence in private dwellings; but there is no central supervision or control over them, and no imperial grant per head, as in Scotland, is given. They are visited quarterly by the medical officer of the union, who reports the result of his visits to the Board of Guardians. The numbers of such appear in the annual reports of the Commissioners in Lunacy. Scattered throughout Wales are to be found no less than 878 lunatic poor, or 18 per cent of its chargeable insane—Cardigan, Caermarthen, and Caernarvon averaging 32 per cent. Males were to females in the ratio of 100 to 158. They are in the same position as to supervision and maintenance as those in the English counties. It is difficult to understand why 18 per cent should in Wales be provided for in this way.