MOUTH—DISEASES OF THE MOUTH 456 better dealt with under a special article, where an account of parotid fistula and salivary calculus will be included. Excepting these organs there are remaining only the three boundaries of the mouth: anteriorly the lips, laterally the cheeks, and inferiorly the floor of the mouth and the gums. The botany of the mouth is a large subject comprising an enormous number of microbes and fungi, and it will be dealt with at some length in other places of this work. Microbes and other parasitic diseases of the mouth are especially common amongst children, hence in the article dealing with stomatitis the reader will find ample information of these interesting diseases which for the most part belong to the domain of the physician. In the article on " Teeth " the reader will find information concerning the active part taken by micro-organisms in diseases of these organs; and the curious parasitic disease actinomycosis is described, as far as its presence in the mouth is concerned, in the section dealing with diseases of the jaws (see page 467). Further, a reference to the important part played by micro-organ- isms in certain suppurative diseases of the jaws will be found elsewhere. In addition to microbes and fungi there are at least two very potent factors in producing pathological conditions of the mouth, viz., tobacco and alcohol: the former when inhaled, especially through a pipe; the latter when taken in concentrated form, as in various spirits. As these causes act especially on the tongue, the reader is referred to the article on that organ for full consideration of the effects of these poisons. In considering the special regions of the mouth to which this article is devoted, one is first of all struck with the resisting character of two of its constituents, namely, the lips and the cheeks, especially their mucous surfaces. This is well shown by the way in which lupus vulgaris of the face spreads. It is compara- tively rare to find this disease spreading into the mouth and affecting the buccal mucous membrane, whereas the disease very often spreads along the nose and down the throat, so that lupus of the pharynx is much more common than lupus of the mouth. Again, although the buccal mucous membrane is sub- jected to the irritation of decaying teeth, yet malignant disease commencing in this region is much less common than malignant disease of the tongue or floor of the mouth. Many of the diseases affecting the mucous membrane of the lips and cheeks are fully dealt with in the article on " Tongue," e.g. leuco- plakia, dental ulcers, etc., and the reader is referred to that article for full information on these diseases. It will be convenient, in considering our subject, to divide it into four parts—the lips. the cheeks, the gums, and the floor of the mouth. 1. Diseases op the Lips.—Among the in- flammatory diseases there are a few deserving mention owing to the manner in which they are modified by the peculiar relations of the lips; e.g. a boil may cause a very wide disturbance in the lip owing to the ease with which inflammatory exudation travels in the tissues in this part, producing marked swelling and oedema. In addition, the constant move- ment of the lips, together with a great liability to traumatism, produces secondary phenomena which may completely conceal the primary boil. The lip becomes markedly everted, and the primary lesion may be quite concealed unless a very careful examination be made. In the same way anthrax occurring at the muco- cutaneous margin may become concealed by the secondary inflammatory disturbance. In cancrum oris there may be extensive gangrene of the lips, and the reader is referred to the article on that subject (see " Stomatitis "). There is a certain condition of the lips, sometimes called hypertrophy of the lips, which seems to be due to a chronic inflamma- tion of its lymphatic system. It is said to occur especially in children of the tuberculous tendency. According to some authors, the glandular disease met with in these patients when occurring in the glands draining the lips causes a certain amount of lymphatic obstruc- tion and consequent overgrowth. The exact pathology of this condition, however, is not known. There is a well - recognised disease termed congenital hypertrophy of the lips. This is always present at birth to a slight extent, although it may not develop markedly until some years afterwards. This seems to be due to some chronic disturbance of the lymphatic system of the lips, but its exact pathology is even more obscure than the cases just described. The treatment of these conditions is purely operative. Plastic operations are necessary to reduce the marked hypertrophy. As regards tuberculous diseases, there is nothing of special importance when occurring in the lips. Lupus vulgaris may spread from the face, but is comparatively rare as a primary disease of the lips. Syphilis is met with in the lips in all its stages, but the primary chancre of the lips has a certain special interest from two points of view. One is the fact that it is the most common site for primary syphilis next to the congenital organs ; the other is the fact that the diagnosis is often overlooked until the disease has got a firm hold of the system. Owing to the constant moist- ure and the secondary septic inflammation, the swelling of the lips-becomes very marked, and there is often considerable inflammation in the submaxillary lymphatic glands. The course of treatment requires no special comment.