202 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF reliable as it is simple :—On the evening before the operation the axilla is shaved, and the whole of the skin of the chest, axilla, shoulder, scapu- Fio. 19.—At the lower edge of the figure is the cut suface of the paramammary fat made by the surgeon in removing the breast. Immediately adjacent to this surface is a large paravascular lymphatic containing a cancerous embolus ; in the upper right quadrant is a smaller paravascular lymphatic also containing an embolus. lar region, root of neck, and upper part of the abdomen, is thoroughly well scrubbed with warm water containing two tea-spoonfuls of lysol to the pint of water and about a table- spoonful of a mixture consisting of equal parts of green soap and rectified spirits. This forms an excellent lather, and all the time that the skin is being mechanically cleansed the antiseptic, which is both volatile and penetrating, is being well rubbed in. The lather is then washed off with a 1 to 20 solution of carbolic acid, after which the whole chest and upper arm are enveloped in a dry sterilised towel fixed in position by a bandage. At the operation the same pro- cess is repeated. The writer does not approve of the application for some hours of a car- bolic poultice over so large an area on account of the large amount of carbolic acid which is absorbed, and also on account of the injury to the skin. As regards the details of the operation, the method now employed by Halstead, Cheyne, Kocher, Rotter, and many others who per- form the operation on the same thorough lines, gives equally gratifying results, viz., 40 to 50 per cent of cures based on Volkmann's three years' limit. But it is not so much a question of which particular operation is done, as of the care and thoroughness with which each step of the selected operation is carried out. With certain improvements in detail derived from the experience of Cheyne, the writer is in the habit of performing the operation on the lines which, in 1891, he advocated as the out- come of personal observation on the anatomy of the breast and the extent and mode of dis- semination of the disease. To the steps of the operation as described by Cheyne in the Lancet of 18th March 1899, I would add the removal in all cases of the sternal fibres of the pectoralis major. The Skin l7icision.—In the majority of instances, the most convenient incision is a wide ellipse the breadth of the mammary prominence, the long axis extending from the neighbourhood of the ensiform cartilage to the middle of the anterior fold of the axilla, from whence an incision is carried along the fold to a little beyond and below its junction with the upper arm; this portion of the incision should be made at the same stage of the opera- tion as the ellipse. If the tumour be at or near the centre of the mamma no modification of this incision is required, except that the ellipse should always be widened away from the particular portion of the circumference of the breast towards which the tumour is situated. Should the tumour be at or near the periphery of the breast, the skin over it must be freely removed by including it within a triangular or horse-shoe shaped in- cision in such a way that the base of the area mapped out forms part of the ellipse. A very important point, and one which is not, I think, sufficiently attended to, is the free re- FIQ. 20.—Section of the retromammary fat and pectoral fascia showing several small blood-vessels accompanied by efferent mammary lymphatics, some of which are filled with cancer cells which are deeply stained and shrunk in the preparation of the specimen so as to leave a clear ring between them and the wall of the lymphatic. moval of the shin in all directions around the tumour. Whatever incisions are made, it is a good rule to plan them in such a way that the centre of the area of skin removed should as far