493 MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE Treatment. — No treatment has been found of any avail. Massage and electricity may be tried, but much cannot be expected from them. Muscles, Traumatic Affec- tions of.—The muscles, though not easily injured, may suffer from contusions and strains. In consequence of such there is usually pain and temporary impairment of function of the muscle, but in the absence of other more serious injury, such as dislocation or fracture, recovery is usually rapid and complete. Rupture of muscle is not a common occur- rence. It is probably never due to voluntary muscular contraction, but is either occasioned by external violence or by a sudden violent unexpected muscular contraction, with the result, if the tendon be not separated from the muscular belly, or from its attachment to the bone, that the muscular fibres are themselves torn through. In rare instances muscles have been ruptured in the violent tonic spasms of tetanus. The extent of muscular substance involved in the laceration is very variable. In many instances of partial rupture, where only a few fibres are lacerated, the clinical condition is indistinguishable from a strain. Complete rupture, where the whole muscular belly is torn across, is a more serious condition. Such injury is most common in the rectus abdominis, rectus cruris, addvictors of the thigh, soleus, pectoralis majoi-, biceps, deltoid, and triceps; whilst in the gastrocnemius partial nipture is more common. Muscles are more liable to rupture when they are the seat of any pathological pro- cess which reduces their elasticity, as, for example, the degenerative change seen in the late stages of typhoid fever. Although striped muscle has some power of proliferation, the ruptured muscle is united almost solely by fibrous tissue, and yet the movements dependent upon the contraction of this muscle may be but little impaired. Symptomatology. —• The individual who by some sudden instinctive muscular effort or otherwise ruptures a muscle experiences a sudden sharp pain likened to the blow of a whip or a stone, whilst there is a sense of some- thing having given way. On examination of the injured region, the conditions found depend mainly upon whether the ruptured muscle be superficial or deep. If the former, one may find hsemorrhagic discoloration of the skin to- gether with a swelling indicating the effused blood. Or one may determine the presence of a depression between the two halves of the ruptured muscle. On attempting such a move- ment as is due to the contraction of the injured muscle, the movement cannot be performed, or is defective, and the two portions of the muscular belly become prominent on either side of the soleus which was already felt. In cases of deep-seated rupture all these local signs can- not be determined, and the diagnosis must be based chiefly on the character of the pain and loss of function. It is often difficult to diff'er- entiate between laceration of a few fibres of the erector spinse and lumbago. For a considerable time after repair is complete there is local stiffness, weakness, and often pain on contraction of the mi;scle. Treatment aims at approximating the torn muscular surfaces and retaining them at rest in that position for a period varying according to the severity of the injury, but lasting five or six weeks in the case of a complete rupture. For a considerable time afterwards the patient should employ hot fomentations, massage, and moderate exercise. If there be complete riipture of some important muscle, an early operation to unite the portions of torn muscle will probably be advisable. Wounds.—After union of the divided muscle by operation it is to be kept in a relaxed position till imion is complete, just as in the treatment of rupture. Hernia of Muscle.—In consequence of rupture of the sheath, part of the muscular belly, when it contracts, will pass through the aperture in the sheath and form a hernia. Continued re- laxation of the muscle, or the pressure of a firm bandage, will as a rule eff'ect a cure. Muscular.—Relating to the muscles; e.g. muscular asthenopia (see Asthenopia, Muscular), muscular atrophy {see Muscles, Muscular Atro- phy), muscular rheumatism {see Rheumatism, Chronic), etc. MuSCUlariS MuCOSad.—A layer of unstriped muscle V)etween the mucous membrane and the submucosa. Musculo-.—In compound words musculo- means relating or belonging to muscle ; e.g. the musculo-spiral nerve (a nerve supplying certain muscles and having a spiral course), musculo- cutaneous nerve (one supplying both muscles and skin), etc. Mushrooms. See Agaricin; HiEMO- GLOBiNURiA (Toxic from Mushrooms); Invalid Feeding (CooTtery in Diabetes, Mushrooms au gratin); Toxicology {Poisoning, Vegetable Foods, Fungi). Musical Murmurs. —Humming sounds heard sometimes over the heart in cases of cardiac valvular disease, especially in con- genital malformations. See Heart, Congenital Malformations of {Physical Signs). Musicians' Palsy. See Neuroses, Occupation {Etiology, Violin arid Pianoforte Playing, etc.). Musin.—A proprietary preparation having a purgative effect, and said to contain tamarinds.