215 MASON'S TRAP used in drain-construction; it is not self- cleansing. See Sewage and Drainage. Masque des femmes en - ^eintes. — A peculiar discoloration of the face often seen in pregnancy; chloasma uteri- num. See Pregnancy, Physiology {Changes in the Skin); Syphilis {Parasyphilis, Diagnosis). Ma,SS£l.—An aggregation of particles form- ing a body which can be moulded, e.g. the massa from which pills are made; massce are official in the U.S. Pharmacopoeia, e.g. massa hydrar- gyri or blue mass. Ma.SSSlg'e- — The process of rubbing, kneading, pinching, pressing, tapping, and stroking of the skin, muscles, and joints of the body, in order to pi'oduce flexibility and suppleness of these parts, to stimulate nutrition, to remove swellings, to diminish chronic inflam- mation and congestion, etc. Massage forms part of the Weir-Mitchell treatment and of medical and Swedish gymnastics. Percussion or tapping movements constitute taj)otement; pressing or squeezing movements are known as petrissage; when friction is used the process is 7nassage a friction; and light or stroking movements are called effleurage. Massage is used in a number of paralytic or paretic con- ditions, in neurasthenia and hysteria, in neuralgia and neuritis, in rheumatism and gout, in constipation, in strains, and in many other maladies associated with defective nutrition. A man who practises massage is termed a masseur and a woman a masseuse. Sometimes the patient makes active movements, at other times he remains passive, and in some cases he supplements the manipulations of the masseur by resistance-movements. See also Alcoholism {Treatment); Ankle-Joint, Region of, Injuries, {Sprains, Treatment); Appetite {Increase, Causes); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Treatment of Paralysis); Bronchi, Bronchitis {Treatment, External Applications); Chorea {Treatment during Convalescence); Cicatrices {Treatment) ; Constipation {Treatment); Ear, Middle, Chronic Non-suppurative Disease {Treatment); Fractures {Treatment); Liver, Diseases of {Perihepatitis, Treatment in Con- valescence) : Puerperium, Pathology {Affections of Breast, Mammary Engorgement, Treatment); Tabes Dorsalis {Treatment, Massage and Gym- nastics) ; Ulcers and Ulceration {Treatment) \ Uterus, Displacements of the {Pathological Anteflexion, Treatment). Ma.SS£li Disea.se.—A disease occurring among the Massai natives in East Africa and supposed to be due to the guinea-worm {Dra- ctmiculus medinensis). See Filariasis {Filaria medinensis). M asseter.—The chewing muscle of the cheek. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Digestion in the Mouth, Mastication). Masseur. See Massage. Masseuse. See Massage. MasSOtherapy.—The use of massage in the treatment of disease. Mastalgfia. — Pain, especially of a neuralgic kind, in the breast; mastodynia (Gr. /Atto-Tos, the breast, aAyos, pain). Mast Cells. — Leucocytes containing coarse basophile granules (Ehrlich's y-granules); they are rounded or ovoid in shape, have a large structureless nucleus distinguished with difficulty from the cell protoplasm, and contain coarse granules. They are not normal con- stituents of human blood but are found in leucocythsemia (myelogenous type), in per- nicious anfemia, etc.; when found in the blood they are called hBemic mast cells to distinguish them from those found in the tissues. See Blood (White Corpihscles, Basophilous Leucocytes); Eosinophilia ; Leucocyth^mia ; Skin, Anatomy AND Physiology {Corium Cells). MasthelCOSiS. — Mammary ulceration (Gr. /Aao-Tos, breast, and e'AKtoo-t?, ulceration). Mastic or Mastich. — A resinous exudation from Pistacia Lentiscus, not now official; formerly employed as a tooth-stopping, to arrest bleeding from leech-bites, in bron- chitis and diarrhoea, and to give a pleasant odour to the breath. It contains a resin (?»as- tici7i, C2QH32O) as well as an acid resin {mastichic acid, CflHjgOg); it is used in making micro- scopical preparations. Mastication. See Physiology, Food AND Digestion {Digestion in the Mouth); Cheek, Fissure of {Symjytoms, Imperfect Mastication); Fifth Nerve, Affections of {Paralysis, Spasm of Muscles of Masticatio7i). Mastig^OphorOUS. — Flagellated (Gr. IxdcTTi^, a whip, ^ope'co, I wear). See Parasites {Protozoa, Mastigoj^hora). Mastitis.—Inflammation of the breast. See Mammary Gland, Diseases of {Inflamma- tory Affections); New-born Infant {Diseases, Mastitis Neonatorum) ; Puerperium, Pathology {Affections of the Mamma). MastO-.—In compound words masto- (Gr. /Aao-Tos, the breast) means relating to the mammary gland—e.g. masto-carcinonui (cancer aff'ecting the breast), mastology (the study of the normal and pathological states of the breast), mastorrhagia (h£emorrhage or, sometimes, a flow of milk from the breast), mastoscirrhus (scirrhous cancer of the breast), mastosyrinx (fistula of the breast), etc.