90 LUPUS ERYTHEMATOSUS existence; but one or two usually remain, and gradually assume an appearance more character- istic of the disease. Etiology.—Nothing definite is known as to the cause of the disease, and the conjectures and theories held by different observers vary very much. The view that there was really little difference between the disease and lupus vulgaris (tuber- culosis), so long held by eminent authorities, has been abandoned by almost all; but the French school has recently resuscitated the idea in another form, and have classed the disease among their section of " tuberculides." A tuberculide is a disease of the skin which is due to tuberculosis, and yet is not tuberculosis, and it is supposed to be caused by toxin, pro- duced by tubercle bacilli in some hidden focus, circulating in the blood. This theory has a few hesitating supporters in this country; but the majority of British authors side with the German school, whose views are emphatically expressed by Kaposi in the statement that "lupus erythematosus has not the least thing in common with L. vulgaris." Out of 11 fatal cases of lupus erythematosus occurring in Kaposi's practice the post-mortem showed—in 6, pneumonia ; in 3, tuberculosis of the lung; in 1, meningeal oedema; and in the other, marasmus and aucemia. If every case of lupus erythematosus were due to the presence of some hidden focus of tubercle, it is surely not too much to expect that in fatal cases there would at least be sufficient evidence of that disease not to escape the notice of the Professor of Pathology in Vienna. Facts of interest in regard to etiology are its preference for the female sex, its greater fre- quency in the older countries, and the very common occurrence of chilblain in its victims. Deficient vigour of the circulation appears to be a predisposing cause. Histology.—Sections of the skin show, when the process is at its height, an enormous in- filtration of the skin with cells and fluid; the epidermis is thinned, and its cells are flattened by the pressure of the exudation beneath and of the scales above. The glands and follicles of the skin are in- volved in the general inflammatory change, but the disease is by no means specially related to them, as was thought by the earlier observers. Holden {II. of Cut. Dis. 1897, p. 207) ob- served thrombosis of the small vessels in two cases which he examined, and suggests that this may have an important bearing on the nature of the disease. Unna {Histo-Pathology of the Skin, p. 1072) points out that the infiltration commences round the vessels, and that the multinuclear and giant cells seen in tuberculosis and sj^philis are altogether absent. He notes as important the widening out of the lymph spaces in the centre of the cellular area, which he calls " channel- ling." In more advanced stages the supporting tissues give way, dilated lymph spaces rupture into adjacent ones, and thus a very complete disintegration of the tissue results, the repair of which results in the well-known scar. No organisms are detectable, and inoculation experiments have invariably proved negative. Prognosis. — In the disseminate form the prognosis is grave. Six out of Kaposi's eleven cases terminated fatally, and a widespread case is always serious. In the more localised form, and in the slighter form of the disseminate variety which sometimes occurs in the course of a localised case, the prognosis qua life is favourable, but it is im- possible to prognosticate with regard to the duration of the disease. Some cases recover rapidly, others last for years. In the experience of the writer the erythematous form has the best prognosis, and the scaly, especially on the scalp, the worst. Diagnosis.—For the purposes of differential diagnosis it is necessaiy to consider the disease as it affects different localities. On the scalp it more nearly resembles a well-cared-for patch of favus than any other disease, and from this as from ringworm, to which the resemblance is not very great, it is easily enough distinguished by the absence of any fungus. With alopecia areata it can only be confused if the alopecia has been treated by some irritant application, for the margin of a patch of lupus erythematosus is raised and red. On the face rapidly spreading circles of L. erythematosus sometimes very closely resemble ringworm. They may be distinguished by their simultaneous, as opposed to the successive appearance of the rings of ringworm, and by the absence of fungus-containing scales. From seborrhoea it is distinguished by the presence of the little projections on the under surface of the scales, and from eczema and rosacea, which it sometimes very closely re- sembles, by the fine scars which it leaves, by the presence of the stalactite-carrying scales, and by the peculiar stippling of the margin. It is most closely simulated by the great imitator syphilis. It is true that the syphilitic lesions are more often unilateral and more rapid and destructive in their course, but the writer has seen it so closely imitated as to deceive most competent observers. A careful search will, however, almost certainly detect some other evidence of syphilis in the presence, perhaps, of some long-forgotten scar or, as in the case referred to, in a perforation of the palate. The difficulty of diagnosis between L. erythe- matosus of the fingers and toes and chilblains has already been alluded to. Fortunately, the disease is usually present in more characteristic form elsewhere, or some bygone spot may have