MYO- 510 Myo-a—In compound words myo- (Gr. /x5s, a muscle) means relating to a muscle. Myobla,St.—An immature muscle fibre. MyOCa,rclitiS.—Inflammation of the mus- cular substance {myocardium) of the heart. See Heart, Affections of Myocardium and Endo- cardium ; Kheumatism, Acute {Symptoms and Course, Myocarditis); Typhoid Fever {Compli- cations and SequelcE, Myocardium). Myocele.—The protrusion of a muscle through its sheath which has been ruptured. Myochroine. See Myoh^matin. Myoclonus.—Clonic spasm or convulsive contractions of a muscle or group of muscles. See Spasm {Paramyoclonus Multiplex) ; Chorea {Diagnosis). Myoclonia,.—A disease characterised by clonic muscular spasm or myoclonus. MyOCtonine.—A poisonous alkaloid, C27H3qN20c^, resembling curara, obtained from Aconit'um lycoctonum. Myocyte.—A muscle cell. See Physio- logy', Tissues {Muscle). Myodia.Sta,SiS.—Separation of the ends or of parallel strands of a muscle. Myodynia,. — Pain in the muscles. See Muscles, Diseases of. Myofibroma.—A tumour composed of muscular and fibrous tissue, e.g. a " fibroid" tumour of the uterus. See Tumours {Connec- tive Tissue Type, Myomata); Uterus, Non- malignant Tumours {Fibroids). Myofibrosis.—An increase in the con- nective tissue lying between the muscular bundles, e.g. in the wall of the heart. MyOg'enesiS.—The production of mus- cular tissue. Myog^enous or Myog'enic. — Re lating to muscle or developed from muscle, e.g. the myogenic movements of the intestine. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Intestinal Digestion). Myoglobulin. — A globulin found in muscle ; there are three in all—Myoglohulin, Myosinogen, and Paramyosinogen. See Physio- logy, Tissues {Muscle). MyOg^raph.—An instrument for showing graphically the phases of muscular contraction and relaxation; the tracing produced is called a myogram. Myohsematin. — Muscle pigment or myochrome; a histohgematin allied to hsemo- globin. See Physiology, Tissues {Muscle, Colour of); Pigments of the Body and Ex- creta {Hcemoglohin and its Derivatives). M yO i d.—Resembling muscular tissue. See Physiology, Tissues {Muscle). Myoidema.—The production of a wheal or ridge in a muscle when it is sharply tapped; myotatic irritability ; it is seen in conditions of considerable exhaustion. See Pneumonia, Clinical {Physical Signs, KennarCs Sign). Myokymia.—Fibrillary quivering or twitching of muscle, persistent but without loss of power. Myolemma. —The sheath of a striated muscle fibre; sarcolemma. Myolipoma.—A myomatous tumour containing fat. MyolOg'y. — The science which treats of muscles, their anatomy, physiology, and pathology. Myoma. — A tumour composed of un- striped muscular tissue (leiomyoma), or, less often, of striped muscle {rhabdomyoma). See Bladder, Injuries and Diseases {Tumours); Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Faults in the Soft Passages, Fibroids); Ovaries, Dis- eases OF {Myomata); Peritoneum, Tumours of ; Pregnancy, Diagnosis {Differential Dia- gnosis) ; Pregnancy, Hemorrhage {From Tu- mours, Myomata); Tumours {Connective Tissue, Myomata); Tumours of the Skin {Myoma Multi- plex Cutis) ; Uterus, Non-malignant Tumours of {Fibroids). Myomalacia.—A degenerative process characterised by softening of muscle, e.g. of the heart {myomalacia cordis). Myomectomy.—The operation of ex- cision of a myoma, e.g. of the uterus. See Uterus, Non-malignant Tumours {Treatment of Fibroids, Abdominal Myomectomy). Myometrium.—The uterine muscu- lature, inflammation of which constitutes myometritis. See Uterus, Inflammations of. Myooedema. See Myoidema. MyopalmuS.—Muscular twitching. Myopathy.—Any morbid condition of the muscles, or, more particularly, a disease characterised by atrophy (or hypertrophy) of the muscles with slow but progressive loss of power, without fibrillary twitchings and without qualitative electrical change, and by a peculiar physiognomy or facies {myopathic fades). See Muscles, Diseases op {Idiopathic Muscular Atrophy and Hypertrophy). Myopia.—Short sight, usually produced