MORPHINOMANIA AND ALLIED DRUG HABITS 452 various medical journals. In 1897 over forty victims of the cocaine habit appeared in the police courts of Chicago within a period of two or three months, and the report says the habit is chiefly induced by the using of popular remedies for colds, etc. This is a serious statement, and shows that legislation is much needed to control the sale of the drug, and particularly its distribution broad- cast in that form which entraps the unwary— namely, as in wines, cocoas, and sweetmeats. Several states in the U.S.A. have recognised this, and in 1899 passed a law prohibiting the sale or giving of cocaine to any person except a duly authorised physician or upon a physician's order. Even in Turkey the Sultan, as long ago as 1892, issued an irade forbidding its use, and that of sulphonal also, throughout his whole empire. Antipyrin is daily becoming more commonly used by the public in the self-treatment of their real or fancied disorders. This is very evident, not only from the observation of medical men in general, but by noting the large number of cases which appear in the journals, of the oc- currence of symptoms of poisoning and of curious rashes, which are reported as arising from this self-treatment. Antipyrin is most frequently taken by females, usually for headache, and its use has not un- frequently degenerated into a " habit," but to nothing like the same extent as morphia or cocaine. Antipyrinomania causes a gradual deteriora- tion of the general health, loss of appetite, sleeplessness, apathy — the patient losing all interest in domestic or other matters, and ap- pearing dazed or half asleep imtil headache and buzzing in the ears causes restlessness, calling for another dose. This, if delayed, brings about great excitement, followed by prostration, which would appear to threaten life if a supply of the drug is not available. Hence they must be treated exactly like a morphinomaniac, that is, placed under control, carefully nursed, and the drug withdrawn very gradually, the prostration, anorexia, insomnia being suitably provided for. Wechselman ^ records several cases of this habit, and notes the frequency of eruptions, chiefly vesicular, aff"ecting most usually the mouth, hands, genitals. Other eruptions have been frequently noticed —scarlatiniform over the whole body, heemor- rhagic on the extremities, dusky erythema, stomatitis. Some of these eruptions are painful. Cuppelletti records a case of the habit in a girl, set. 23, of hysterical temperament. She had been recommended to take the drug two years before for headache, and had continued it steadily, increasing the dose up to 8, grammes daily (about 3xx.). At this time she came under treatment, and was eventually completely cured. 1 Beut. med. IFoch., May 26, 1898. It is probable that the misuse of this drug will now be rarer than it was some years ago, as in 1892 a regulation came into effect pro- hibiting its sale without a medical prescription. Antifbbrin is also responsible for some victims of "habit." Here again women are the chief sufferers. They generally take the drug for headache or neuralgia, and finding perhaps temporary relief continue it, but require in- creasingly large doses, and then find they cannot give it up. Its prolonged use causes a peculiar appear- ance, which attracts attention and gives a clue to the patient's secret. The skin becomes moist and clammy, and a peculiar leaden-blue tint is noticed, especially of the conjunctivse, ears, lips, tongue, fingers, and toes, but it may be general. The blood appears darker than normal, but otherwise shows no important change. The patients complain of languor and general malaise, for which they seek medical advice. The most common source of the drug in these cases has been one of the proprietary medicines. In 1896 an inquest was held on a young woman who died from the effects of "daisy powders for headache." These were found to be composed mainly of antifebrin. Several other cases of chronic poisoning from the same source, and also from " kaputine " powders, which are mainly antifebrin, have been recorded. Paraldehyde habit is by no means unknown, though it is not common. The drug is usually taken at first for insomnia, and the habit is soon acquired. The patient becomes anaemic, weak, anxious, tremulous, and restless, with unsteady gait; the heart becomes feeble, irregular, and inter- mittent ; there is great emaciation, although there always appears to be an abnormally large appetite. The breath smells strongly of the drug. Mental symptoms may appear, including hallucinations of sight and hearing, also various delusions. The case may be mistaken for delirium tremens on account of the tremor, gait, ema- ciation, and condition of the heart; or for diabetes, from the emaciation and enormous appetite. As with the other " habits," the patient must be treated in a home or asylum by gradual withdrawal of the drug, sleep being obtained by sulphonal. Kraft-Ebing mentions the case of a woman who had for a year taken 4 grammes (3X. nearly) daily. Goodman instances a woman who took, in increasing doses, up to 16 or 18 ounces in twenty-four hours. She was a complete wreck, covered with a vesicular eruption, which smelt strongly of paraldehyde. Elkins ^ relates the case of a man, aet. 63, who had been taking paraldehyde for two and a half years for in- somnia; he took up to 16 ounces in a week, 1 M. iled. Journ., July 1893.