MALINGERING 158 biliary and armamentarium of the malingerer in the same way that lunatics accommodate their delusions to electrical and astronomical and mechanical discoveries. Thus a new disease will soon find its feigners. We will now consider some typical varieties of malingering. Cutaneous.— The skin afibrds a ready field for fictitious lesions and eruptions, which have the advantage of not causing great inconvenience or, as a rule, any danger to life and health. Caustics, acids, and dyes are used, nitric acid and lime perhaps most frequently. Carbolic acid, tartar emetic ointment, croton oil, and various chemicals have been used for the pur- pose. Comedones, pustular eruptions, and even laminated and crusted lesions have been indviced —the latter by rubbing the skin persistently with the fingers moistened with saliva. Pem- phigus has been simulated by application of nitric acid. Bullae have been raised by can- tharides. Erythematous blushes may be feigned by dyes. The true nature of these phenomena may often be detected by observing the position of the lesions to be where the right hand can be most easily applied; thus the left forearm and the right thigh are places of selection. Ulcers are produced by lime, acids, and even by biting out portions of skin or by cutting them out. The skin lesions are usually asymmetrical and may be cured by immovable plaster-of- Paris casings, and if the case fits a little pain- fully in places, the " cure" will be often expedited. The writer was informed of a young woman who had an unusual vesicular rash on the chest, the outline of which her doctor observed to have a rectangular corner. He carefully superim- posed over the rash a square piece of emplas- trum lyttse, ostentatiously adjusting one corner of the plaster to the similar outline on the skin. The patient was allowed to associate the treat- ment with the detection. The plaster was pulled off" by the patient and the original rash rapidly disappeared. Traces of dyes and acids may be observed on the hands and garments, in some cases leading to detection. The ecchymosed patches seen in scorbutus have been simulated by purposely bruising the region behind the legs. Sweating is produced by violent exertion indulged in just before a doctor's visit. Fodere, in Medecine Legale, tom. ii. p. 485, recorded a case of a woman injecting air, through an almost imperceptible puncture in the groin, into the subcutaneous cellular tissue of abdominal parietes and producing emphyse- matous crepitation. Syphilitic skin lesions have been feigned as a means of escaping from impending marriage. Wounds.—All varieties of wounds, from mere superficial scratches inflicted in weakly pre- tended "attempts"at suicide with pins, nails, rough bones, etc., vip to the opening of the cephalic vein of the arm, have been seen by the writer among prisoners. In this latter case the man sent for medical aid in such a prompt manner as to ensure no undesirable loss of blood, but had taken care to smear his whole face, hands, and garments with blood so as to present a specta^cle which he evidently thought would cause himself to be regarded as suicidal. Being well known as a malingerer, he only achieved a severe punishment, and never feigned again. The writer was once deceived for a few mo- ments by a woman who wished to be regarded as too ill for dietary punishment, and when complaining of vertigo and weakness, presented her right wrist to the writer, who desired to test her pulse. No pulse could be felt. The left wrist was examined and found to have a normal pulse: and then the right radial artery was seen to have been obliterated at the wrist by an old lacerated wound. A convict produced an extensive deep sinus in the lower leg. After a counter-opening had been made, a drainage tube inserted, and no progress had followed, the limb was merely cased in plaster-of-Paris over some dressings. The man removed this apparatus during the same night and told the writer that he did so in order to remove some lint he had placed in the leg, and that " there need be no more anxiety, as the leg would rapidly get well of itself." It did so. A convict caused a wound of the right ankle by biting out a piece of tissue, the size of a halfpenny, over the left inner malleolus. He also had a second self-produced wound of leg, which was found to contain a piece of slate- pencil 21 inches long, and three pieces of un- ravelled cobbler's thread. He assisted us to discover the various foreign bodies when he found we had discovered his actions. This man wished to evade work, and soon after the detection of his first designs he feigned stricture of the urethra and strained against the catheter; but a large silver instrument always passed easily. He also made a transparently feigned attempt at suicide by scratching the integu- ment over the thyroid cartilage with a piece of meat bone. Again he threatened, if he did not receive some special food, " to bite out a piece from his body which would take months to heal." He was a persistent malingerer and always ready with a new plan of action. Another malingerer inflicted on himself three bitten wounds—one on the left hand, one on the left wrist, and one on the left bicipital region. The writer saw a case of a woman who re- peatedly produced deep and extensive induration and suppuration in the breast by introducing nails and hair-pins and leaving them there.