LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 63 because of difficulty in expectoration. This is true, especially of morning cough. The difficulty tends to disappear and cough lessens when the patient is allowed more air by night. When the difficulty is pronounced, expectorants may be required. One of the best in such case is a simple warm drink. The hot milk and rum, already referred to, may answer well, or the patient may have a warm alkaline drink, e.g. one of the natural alkaline waters. Of expectorants proper, the most valuable for the purpose are carbonate of ammonia, senega, quillaya, which may be combined with chloro- form. At other times ipecacuanha may be helpful. The catarrhal tendency—and thereby one cause of expectoration—is lessened by the use of terebene, terpine hydrate, or eucalyptol. Unless there is definite indication, it is in most cases best to withhold expectorants altogether. They should certainly be withheld if through their use the appetite or digestion suffers. Hcemoptysis.—(See special article " Htemop- tysis " in vol. iv.). The slighter manifestations of bleeding require no special treatment. Bleeding is much less frequent in patients under open-air regime. Pyrexia.—Under open-air methods fever tends to disappear in remarkable fashion. In order to this the patient cannot have too free and direct a supply of fresh air. Important assist- ance may also be got from hydrotherapeutic measures, e.g. sponging with cool or cold water. Sometimes the use of alkaline solutions for this purpose is helpful; at other times the addition of eau de cologne or other spirit is grateful. The external application of guaiacol (5-20 per cent in olive oil) has sometimes proved service- able. If there be evidence of a local extension of disease, a blister over the seat of mischief tends to reduce the associated pyrexia. Anti- pyretic drugs are seldom desirable; while it is easy enough to lower the temperature by their use, the complete effect on the patient is less satisfactory. Probably quinine in moderate doses is the most satisfactory all round. It may be conveniently given in pill (gr. ss.-ii. thrice daily), say in combination with digitalis and strychnine, if these are indicated. More rarely, when the discomfort attendant on pyi-exia is con- siderable, phenacetin, antipyrin, or pyramidon may be given in doses of gr. v.-xv. This only on occasion, and to be repeated as seldom as possible. Sometimes the administration of alcohol (whisky, brandy) in appropriate dose, an hour or so before the temperature tends to rise, is efficacious by anticipation. Sickness, Vomiting, and other Digestive Trouble. —These are reduced to a minimum under open- air methods. They are difficult to treat apart from such regime, for which they indeed form a leading indication. If in spite of this they persist, it is a good rule to make sure that they are not caused by diet or medicines. The latter had better be omitted entirely and the former simplified. Sometimes a rigid milk diet is effective, at other times a concentrated raw meat dietary. A glass of boiling water taken sip by sip two or three hours after food or half an hour before meals, may prove serviceable. This is to be preferred to the sucking of ice. The tendency to sickness after meals is often got rid of, if the meals be taken in the re- cumbent posture. The occasional use, say every second day, of minute doses of grey powder (gr. ss.-i.) sometimes acts like a charm. Relief may follow the exhibition of creosote, iodine, or similar drug—taken after food or well diluted. Or bismuth may be given in full doses at meal-times. Sometimes a mustard poultice over the stomach proves serviceable. Flagging appetite may be assisted by the use of ordinary bitters, while the patient is resting, half an hour before food, or it may be by a little acid and glycerine, e.g. acid, nitrohydro- chloric. dil. rrt v.-x., acid, hydrocyanic dil. vi\ iv., glycerin. 53. ex aq. Diarrhoea.—The cause of diarrhoea must be carefully determined. It may depend on (1) irritation through medicines or food-stuffs intro- duced ; (2) catarrhal condition of bowel; (3) lardaceous disease ; (4) tuberculous involvement of bowel. When it seems due to irritation, all medicines should be stopped forthwith, and the diet simplified as proposed in the last paragraph. It may be desirable to clear out the bowel by simple purgative, e.g. castor-oil, or enema. If there be no more definite indication of catarrh or lardaceous disease, a milk diet is commonly serviceable. In such cases the use of bismuth in full doses is helpful. The liquor calcis saccharatus or other chalk preparation, with or without opium, or kino, catechu, or logwood, may be tried. Such preparations may be serviceable in slighter manifestations of tuber- culous involvement. In this case, however, a rigidly simplified dietary must be instituted. Intestinal antiseptics, astringents, and sedatives are called for; these include salicylate of bis- muth, salol, tannin, tannigen, tannalbin, acetate of lead, oxide of zinc, sulphate of copper, and opium in one or other form. The secondary ancemia of pulmonary tuber- culosis is best treated with arsenic. This is commonly more successful than iron. Arsenic seems sometimes of service in relation to chronic enlargements of glands. Where glandular dis- turbance is localised and threatens to be troublesome, the sooner the glands are dealt with surgically the better. Circulatory enfeehlement is chiefly met by means of rest, as much as possible in the open air. The patients must, however, be kept warm. The extremities must be properly covered. Alcohol is frequently indicated, and digitalis in combination with strychnine is of much value.