439 MOLE: MOLAR PREGNANCY cases of yet another class the uterus is found to decrease slowly in size for some time, although a dead ovum is retained within it. After weeks, or even months, a small shrunken ovum is expelled. In these cases haemorrhage has played no part in the destruction of the ovum, which, after its death, loses bulk by absorption of its fluid elements; and as this loss of bulk is not replaced or exceeded by the effusion of blood into the uterine cavity, the uterus itself lessens in size, since it follows the decrease of the shrinking ovum. Such ova are often termed "blighted." It is clear that the masses known as "bloody mole," "fleshy mole," "fibrous mole," and "blighted ovum" are all simply the uterine content as observed in diiferent varieties of " missed abortion" (q.v.). Their differences in structure depend mainly upon two factors—(1) the amount of blood effused into the cavity of the pregnant uterus ; and (2) the length of time during which the ovum is retained in utero after its death. (See " Preg- nancy, Pathology of. Ovum and Decidua.") Apart from the retention and alteration of complete ova, incomplete abortion may be followed by the formation within the uterus of a mass or mole composed of layers of blood-clot surrounding a more or less detached portion of placenta. Such a mass, if pediculated, is known as "placental polypus," and may so closely resemble a true polypus that its true nature cannot be discovered without microscopic examination. Questions of medico-legal importance may arise in connection with any mass expelled from the uterus. In the first place, it may be important to determine whether or not such a mass is a product of conception. For this purpose sections must be made and submitted to careful microscopic examination. The dis- covery of chorionic villi is the only positive evidence that pregnancy has occurred, since the work of Eden and others has thrown serious doubt vipon the belief that the presence of decidual cells affords proof that conception has taken place. Secondly, question may arise as to the date of the conception to which the formation of the mole is due. For example, the case of Kitson v. Playfair arose concerning an abortion which was completed on 23rd February 1894. The mass then removed from the uterus was stated to contain fresh placental tissue left in utero after a recent abortion. This state- ment was considered to be libellous, and the mass was explained by the plaintiff as the result of conception at least eighteen months pre- viously. The ovum was said to have perished in October 1892, when some haemorrhage occurred, but to have been retained in utero sixteen months thereafter. The defence pled privilege and lost the case, which could doubt- less have been won had justification been pled. For after placental tissue has been retained in utero for a few weeks, the chorionic villi and the blood in the intervillous spaces undergo changes which render them easily distinguish- able from those of fresh placenta. To say exactly how long an ovum has remained dead in utero is impossible, because several factors are concerned in determining the alterations which occur ; but the distinction between fairly fresh placenta and that which has been retained in utero for some weeks should present no difficulty. Tubal Mole.—In ectopic pregnancy the ovum may die, and more or less blood may be effused into it just as in uterine gestation. The result is the same in each if septic infection does not occur, and if the effusion of blood is not sufficient to cause rupture of the gestation sac, the blood within the sac becomes clotted, and forms a mole within the tube or other structure which contains the ovum. Many cases of this kind doubtless occur without being recognised. A considerable amount of absorp- tion follows, and in some very well authenticated instances the only trace left by the condition has been slight thickening of the broad ligament involved. (See " Ectopic Gestation.") Moll men. — The Latin word molimen (plural molimina) means a great undertaking or attempt, and the term has come to be employed especially in relation to such a phenomenon as the establishment of menstrua- tion in the sense of an unsuccessful endeavour towards the performance of the function ] by menstrual molimina we mean the symptoms (pain in the back, down-bearing efforts, head- ache, sickness, etc.) associated with the men- arche in young women and recurring monthly, or else the same symptoms occurring after the menopause (natural or artificially induced). Mollinuin.—An ointment the basis of which is mollin, a soft soap of caustic potash and cocoa-nut oil. Mollities Ossium. See Osteo- malacia. MollUSCUin.—A morbid state charac- terised by the presence of soft (Lat. mollis, soft) tumours of the skin and subcutaneous tissue; there are two chief varieties, molluscum fibrosum and molluscum contagiosum. See Tumours {Neurofibromatosis, Molluscum Fibro- sum) ; Tumours of the Skin {Benign, Molluscum Contagiosum); Eyelids, Affections of {Growths of the Lids, Molluscum Contagiosum). Molybdenum.—A metallic element (Mo), closely resembling lead (Gr. //oAu/3Sos, lead), found in nature as the sulphide (MoSj) and in commerce as ammonium molybdate ((NH^)2 M0O4). Various compound words are formed from it, such as molybdamblyopia (amblyopia due to lead poisoning), molybd-