LUNACY 14 and he appoints a committee of the person as well as a committee of the estate—very frequently one committee serving for both purposes; and the committee of the person directs the guardian, who often is a medical man, to receive the patient, and he like any other guardian requires within one clear day from day of the patient's reception to intimate to the Commissioners in Lunacy the admission. Advice and medical attention are to be provided where the patient's means permit; and the committee of the person must make an accurate report every half-year along with the medical attendant as to physical and mental condition ; and over the committee the Chancery Visitors have control. The patient may be present at the inquiry. When the Commissioners in Lunacy report to the Lord Chancellor that neither the property nor income of a patient is duly protected or properly applied, such report is tantamount to an application for an inquisition, which in every case is made to the Judge in Lunacy, and he decides whether the examination shall take place in open court or in private. Private Patients in England. —In regard to such the petition is considered in private, and the two medical certifiers are entitled to be present, but they are bound to keep secret all matters and documents, except when required to divulge the same by lawful authority. The order for the reception of private patients is made by a Justice appointed under the Lunacy Act of 1890, a Judge of County Court, or a Stipendiary Magistrate. For a reception order two medical certificates—one, if possible, being that of the usual medical attendant—are re- quired on separate sheets, whether the patient be sent to an institution or to single care. Should neither certificate be signed by the usual medical attendant the reason must be given. Each certifier must have examined the patient seven clear days before presentation of petition. For an urgency order, which is extra- judicial, only one medical certificate is required, no matter whether sent to an asylum or to single care, and the examination must be made not more than two days before reception. In the certificate the facts are set forth ; and in the statement accompanying urgency order which is part of the certificate, it must be certified that the removal was necessary in the interests of the patient and of the public, and that the state of bodily health admitted of removal without risk. An urgency order remains in force for seven days; but if a petition for a reception order is pending then, until it is disposed of. A medical man, like any other guardian, receiving a patient under either order must intimate within one clear day from the patient's reception, and transmit to the Commis- sioners a copy of the order and medical certifi- cate or certificates. Should the medical attendant of a single patient consider the personal interview by a judicial authority to which he is entitled to be prejudiced, he within twenty-four hours after reception certifies accordingly, but the patient must receive notice of his right within twenty- four hours of reception. The exercise of the right must be made within seven days. In regard to a person " not a pauper wander- ing at large and not under proper care and control," on the information of a constable, a Justice of the Peace specially appointed under the Lunacy Act of 1890 directs and orders two medical men to examine him separately. Single patients must be visited by the medical attendant at least once in every two weeks, unless fewer visits are permitted by the Com- missioners. In the house with a single patient a register of mechanical restraint and a medical journal must be kept, in the latter of which entries have to be made as to mental and physical condition, diet, bedding, employment, exercise, amusements, visits of friends, and seclusion. These entries must also be made when the medical man is the guardian. The visitation of the patient at intervals is made by a medical attendant who has not signed either of the certificates, and who derives no profit from the charge of patient directly or indirectly through his partner or near relatives (father, son, or brother). When leave of absence from the house in which he resides is requested, either for the benefit of patient's health or on trial, the request sent to the Commissioners or Visitors shall be accompanied by the recommendation of the medical attendant. The medical attendant of single private patients must submit a statement to be trans- mitted to the Commissioners in Lunacy as to mental and physical state after two clear days, and before the expiration of seven from the day of reception, and also a report at the end of a calendar month as to mental and bodily condi- tion; and (in terms of Act 1890, sec. 38, and Act of 1891, sec. 7) a special report, likewise, before the expiry of the reception order at the end of one year, in regard to bodily and mental condition, and a certificate to the effect that he is still of unsound mind, and a proper person to be detained under care and treatment. The guardian of a private patient must send notice of death, discharge, application for transfer— the transfer to be accompanied by a copy of reception order and the two medical certificates, and likewise within two clear days' notice of removal, escape and recapture, or transfer from the private to the pauper class. Every medical man who takes the care of a person of unsound mind must apply to the Lunacy Commissioners for a copy of their Rules in order that he may know their requirements. Pauper Lunatics, etc., in England.—Lunatics -