521 NAILS, AFFECTIONS OF THE and the nail-bed protected by means of an ointment, sucii as ung. zinci. oxidi, spread on linen. For leuconychia of the nails an oxide of tin polishing powder, coloured with 1 per cent of carmine can be used, or the nails stained with an alcoholic solution of eosin or carmine to mask the unnatural whiteness Other deformities, such as marked reeding, transverse ridges, protuberances, discolorations, are often permanent; but some improvement can be obtained by rubbing down and polishing as recommended above. In hyperlceratosis of the nail-bed, or separation of the nail, as in psoriasis, a salicylic acid ointment, grs. xv.-3j. to the 3j. of lard (or to 5vj. of lanoline and 5ij. of olive oil, or to sj. of oleate of zinc ointment) pushed under the nail with a bevelled bit of wood, is useful. Where there is hyperidrosis of the hands and feet, it should be treated. Sulph. praecip 3j., •ex lacte nocte maneque, is useful, to which pulv. cinnamomi co. 5ij., and pulv. cretse co. 3vj. ad can be added if there is purging. As for tonic treatment, arsenic is the only one exerting a specific action on the nails. It has long been known that it is eliminated through the hair and nails ; in chronic poisoning it can be detected in the nail parings. Arsenic acts apparently by stimulating nutrition. It is useful in psoriasis, and when the nails alone are affected, and psoriasis suspected, it should be tried with the usual precautions, either alone or combined with iron (ferri et amnion, cit.). Its effects should be watched, as, taken over long periods in a routine way, it may lead to pigmentation, keratosis, and even cancer of the skin. In diseases of the nervous system, when the damage to the nerve elements is irreparable, little or nothing can be done, except to protect the nails. Improvement of the circulation in the extremities by careful rubbing might be of service. When in the case of a divided nerve the ends «an be brought together, with regeneration, the nails would probably improve with the other tissues. In mental strain, shocks, and so forth, quiet, tonics, sea and mountain air, and so forth are indicated. Simple forms of infiammatio7i should be treated by hot fomentations, and removal of any part of the nail, which becomes loose; and iodoform, or its substitutes (europhen, loretin), applied. A lotion of liq. plumbi subacetatis gss., sp. vini rect. §j. aq. ad Oj. applied on lint under oiled skin is sometimes very efficacious. In onychia maligna the general supporting treatment of the patient is important. Locally the nail, if mucli affected, should be removed under an anaesthetic, and exuberant granulations scraped or cut away, followed by dusting on iodoform (europhen, etc.) and dressing with wet boracic-acid lint, or packing the parts with iodoform gauze. In syphilitic onychia, and perionychia, the treatment varies with the condition. When dry [onychia sicca), mercury should be ordered by the mouth in the usual way. When inflamed or idcerated, local soothing applications should also be used in addition to the constitutional treatment. Mercury sometimes aggravates ulcerative and suppurative conditions, just as it does pustular, ulcerating, rupial syphilides. Jarisch rightly insists on care in this particular. Instead of mercury, tonics, such as perchloride of iron, bark, etc., combined with sea-air and generous diet, should be the line of treatment. As to stimulants, I cannot say I have ever seen any benefit from them in syphilis; the post hoc propter hoc fallacy may account for the glowing accounts of the benefits of port wine, etc. In those cases of tertiary syphilide of the palm (improperly still called palmar psoriasis by some) or sole where the nails are involved by continuity, iodide of potassium is indicated, together with a mild ung. hydrargyri (oij. to Jiv. or more ad rubbed into the affected skin area. In congenital syphilitic onychia of infants and children I have in several cases observed the immediate good effects of specific treatment (hyd. c. creta, gr. j. bis vel ter in die), without local applications, but a weak boracic acid or oleate of zinc ointment can be ordered at the same time. As to the p)arasitic diseases, ringworm and favus need alone detain us. The condition being an obstinate one, a number of remedies have been recommended. The following will be found useful:—Scraping the nail thoroughly with the sharp edge of a slide, followed by soaking it with sulphurous acid or hyposulphite of soda, 3ij. to the ounce of water, applied on lint under oiled silk. Radcliffe-Crocker has found the treatment advocated by Harrison of Bristol for Tinea tonsurans answer well in Tinea unguium. The nail is first scraped, and the following solution, liq. potassse, aq. dest. aa 3SS., pot. iodidi 3ss. applied on lint luider oiled silk for a quarter of an hour. A second solution, hyd. perchlor. gr. iv., sp. vini rect., aq. dest. aa 3SS., is then immediately applied in the same manner for twenty-four hours, when the nail is again scraped and the process repeated. (For the scalp the treatment requires much care and medical supervision.) Sabouraud recommends the following solution, applied on absorbent wool: potassium iodide 2 grams, metallic iodine 1 gram, water 1 litre. The wool is covered in by means of a rubber finger-stall. Dubreuilh has not found it succeed in his practice. According to Ehlers, the kartmigl of Iceland can be cured by the daily use of a 1 per cent