446 MORPHINOMANIA AND ALLIED DRUG HABITS it an excuse may be made to examine the patient stripped, then puncture-marks of the needle may be seen, especially if looked for on the extensor aspect of the left forearm or on the outer side of the right thigh and buttock. An abscess or small ulcer may be revealed, or even many such, with scars and stains of old ones. If one comes across a subcutaneous abscess on the limbs or trunk, and, seeing no immediate cause for it, find its contents foetid—suspect morphia injection. But failing all such definite proofs, if the suspected person can be isolated away from his own home and closely watched so as to prevent him getting morphia, the craving will in due course appear, if the suspicions are correct, and so unmask the case. Even then no reliance can be placed on the statements of the patient as to either the amount or the frequency of the dose. Where there has been concealment the physician must be very certain of his ground before making a diagnosis of morphinism, seeing that it may involve the patient in a charge of gross un- truthfulness. In many cases the diagnosis is not difficult. One patient I have seen, a gentle- man by birth and education, was in the habit of carrying a piece of dirty newspaper in his pocket, and after each injection tore off a small piece, moistened it on his tongue, and applied it over the puncture. His arms were, in con- sequence, one mass of festering sores, scabs, pus, and newspaper, associated in sickening com- bination. Another patient, the Yankee before mentioned, had hundreds of scabs, blotches, and sores scattered over his body. These were to be found on all parts of the arms from the wrists up, all over both legs from the ankles up, all over the trunk except a triangular area on the back, having the angles at the two shoulders and upper lumbar spine. In the groins the marks were particularly numerous, and he explained this by saying that he felt the effect more quickly there than anywhere else. The marks consisted of (1) bluish stains very simi- lar in size and appearance to tdches bleuatres — in some parts these were as close together as the pits of smallpox, but I am at a loss to explain them unless the pigmentation was due to " ymshi" ; besides these there were (2) an enormous number of pitted scars from small ulcers, together with (3) actual abscesses and ulcers in all stages, and (4) recent punctures also, appearing as small red dots. The effects of the abuse of morphia are fairly well known in the abstract, but it may serve some useful purpose to consider them some- what briefly in detail. At first, as a rule, the injections give genuine pleasure, but this soon becomes short lived, and after a regularly shortening interval is succeeded by a restlessness and craving which can only be appeased by another dose. Very soon, therefore, it is in order to allay this craving, " the terrible feeling," " the horrible sensation" as some victims express it, that they seek a fresh injection, and not for the pleasure that it imparts. To avoid a too rapid shortening of the interval, the strength of the dose has to be increased, and thus enormous doses are arrived at. The first effect of the dose is stimulating and exciting, brightening up the dormant faculties and awakening any energy the frame is capable of; but this stage is soon succeeded by a feeling of calmness, and then by dulness and stupor, soon to be arrested by a renewal of the restless craving. These latter stages being very much longer than the one of excitation, the general condition is one of fatuous listlessness; in fact, in the later stages of the habit, excitation may almost be said to be absent. Thus any of the business of life to be accomplished by the habitue must be attempted with the immediate aid of the needle—he is absolutely its slave. More and more the appetite becomes capricious until it is altogether lost, so that it is with difficulty he can get the stomach to take food or to retain it. Once the habit is fairly established there is no diminution of the secre- tions, and the bowels instead of being consti- pated, are regular or even relaxed. Sleep, however, is greatly interfered with ; it becomes broken and fitful, and is disturbed by horrible dreams, so that he actually dreads the approach of nightfall. All these conditions tend, less rapidly than might be expected, but none the less surely, to bring about impairment of the nutritive processes, nerve exhaustion, enfeebled mental capacity, general wasting and emacia- tion, terminating certainly in insanity or death. Besides these general ill-effects there is pro- duced in men impotence and sterility, and in women amenorrhoea, sterility, and gradual atrophy of the genital organs.^ As with almost all other inebriates, "love is transformed to hate, and he not unseldom loathes the sight of the devoted companion whom in his prenarcotic days he cherished with the tenderest devotion." "One man sold his wife for £\'2 and smoked the proceeds ! " ^ Albuminuria is frequent and urfemia not uncommon. Huchard reports ten cases of albuminuria in morphinomania, end- ing in uraemia, and Lowenstein reports six or seven similar cases.^ The wretchedness, misery, despair, and actual poverty induced by this absorbing vice not rarely leads the bond-servant to suicide, and this appears especially to be the case since cocaine came into use.* Many indeed seek to break their bondage by substituting another drug, such as cocaine or chloral, only to find themselves doubly bound by, if possible, a stronger and more deplorable vice. A minor evil which these unfortunates suffer is the 1 Passower, Ohst. Soc. St. Petersburg, 1893. ^ Norman Kerr, Inebriety. ^ British Medical Journal, 1890, vol. i. p. 1275. lb., vol. ii. p. 812.