109 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF occur. Moreover, the cerebro-spinal fluid be- comes stagnant, and removal of the products of metabolism only takes place by diffusion through the capillary walls, so that a chronic cerebral auto-intoxication takes place, which gets worse the longer it continues. Lymphatic Vessels. See Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology ; see also Brain, Physiology of {Lymphatic Circulation); Mammary Gland, Diseases of (Anatomical Considerations, Lymphatic System); Pregnancy, Physiology (Changes in Lymphatics). LymphatiSITI. — Lymphatism or the status lymphaticus is a morbid state consisting in the enlargement of the lymphatic apparatus, especially the part within the body, occurring most frequently in children, associated with hypoplasia of the heart and arterial system, and tending to produce sudden death (e.g. during convalescence from diphtheria or infectious fevers, during ansesthesia, etc.). See Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology (Status Lymphaticus); Status Lymphaticus ; Thymus Gland (Lymphatism). Lymphocyte.—A lymph corpuscle; a variety of leucocyte in which the nucleus is large and the quantity of protoplasm com- paratively small. Lymphocythaemia. — The presence of an abnormally great number of lymphocytes in the blood. See Leucocyth^mia. Lymphocytosis. See Lbucocytosis. Lymphodermia.—A morbid state of the lymphatics of the skin. Lymphodermia Perniciosa.— Lymphodermia perniciosa or leukaemia cutis is a rare disease of the skin, first described by Kaposi, which consists in the development of a scaly, weeping, and very itchy eczema, followed by doughy swelling of the part, by the appear- ance of cutaneous or subcutaneous nodules, by enlargement of the spleen and lymph glands, by leucocythsemia, and generally, after a time, by death : it is generally regarded as a variety of mycosis fungoides. See Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology (Lymphodermia Perniciosa). Lymphoma.—A neoplasm composed of tissue resembling that of a lymphatic gland ; lymphadenoma. See Lymphatic System, Physi- ology AND Pathology (Lymphadenoma). Lymphomatosis. — Lymphadenoma. See Lymphatic System, Physiology and Patho- logy (Lymphadenoma). Lymphorrhag-ia. —A flow of lymph taking place from an injured or diseased lym- phatic vessel (e.g. thoracic duct). Lymphosarcoma.—Lymphadenoma; a sarcoma containing lymphoid elements, or a sarcoma arising in a lymphatic gland. See Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology (Lymphadenoma); Mediastinum (Growths). Lymph - Scrotum. — See Scrotum, Diseases of (Varijc Lymphaticus). Lypemania. — Melancholia; insanity characterised by intense mental depression and often by refusal to take food (Gr. kvirrj, distress, and [xavia, madness). Lypothymia.—Melancholia (Gr. Auttt/, distress or grief, ^vyaos, disposition); lypero- phrenia has the same meaning. Lysidine.—Methylglyoxalidine (C4HgN2), recommended in gout and rheumatism for the same purposes as piperazine is employed ; dose, 15 to 75 grains per diem. Lysin.—A hexone base or diamido acid— diamido-caproic acid (CgHj^NgOg) ; a substance found in the blood serum capable of dissolving cells. See Physiology, Protoplasm (Proteids, Protamines). Lysis.—Gradual defervescence (in contrast to rapid defervescence or crisis, q.v.), as is seen in typhoid fever (Gr. Xvtw, to loosen). See Temperature (Fever, Defervescence). LySOform.—A combination of lysol and formaldehyde, having antiseptic properties in 1 to 3 per cent solutions. Lysol.—A popular antiseptic liquid, brown in colour, and giving a soapy character to water with which it is mixed ; it is a coal-tar product, and consists of a solution of tar-oils in a neutral soap; a 2 per cent solution is useful for hands and instruments in operative work. LySSa.—Hydrophobia or rabies (Gr. Xvcrcra frenzy, madness). See Rabies. LySSOphobia.—A morbid condition of a neurotic or hysterical kind following in cer- tain individuals the bite of a dog not suffering from rabies ; pseudo-hydrophobia or hydrophobo- phobia. Lyterian.—Indicating the termination of a disease (Gr. Aveiv, to loosen). LythiasiS.—Lithiasis ; calcareous change, e.g. in the retained secretion of the Meibomian glands. See Eyelids, Affections of (Infarcts of Meibomian Glands). Lytta. — A vermiform structure (" the worm") found in the tongue of the dog and other carnivora, and popularly believed to be the cause of rabies (Gr. XvTra, madness, the Attic form of Xvcra-a).