LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 46 Clubbing of the fingers with rounding of the nail surface may be observed; it seems due chiefly to thickening of the subcutaneous structures of the ends of the fingers. Rontgen- ray examination indicates that the osseous structure is little, if at all, altered. Clubbing does not occur in all cases, and is not special to pulmonary tuberculosis. It is met with in conditions of chronic circulatory derangement, pleurisy, empyema. Its actual causation is still a moot point. Reference may here be made to the occasional occurrence of cutaneous emphy- sema. This is infrequent. It may be limited or general, and is due to the escape of air into the tissues through a breach in the respiratory organs, e.g. of the trachea or bronchus, or the lung more directly, e.g. by bursting of a vomica in presence of adherent but unresisting pleura. The gradual leakage of air through diseased pulmonary structures, apart from actual breach, has been suggested. Its occurrence is very doubtful. 5. Clinical Varieties and Progress The variation in clinical course is not less immense than the variation in symptomatology. One case terminates fatally within six or eight weeks ; another lasts for many years. One case seems to commence abruptly, and runs a rapid course throughout; another commences no less acutely, but after a few weeks passes into a quiescent state. The quiescence may be lasting, or, in turn, be interrupted by a re- crudescence of symptoms. Such alternation of activity and latency is frequent, and may be repeated in the same individual many times. Another case commences insidiously, and con- tinues for long without urgent symptoms ; or suddenly the even progress is abruptly altered by the advent of gravest manifestations, either pulmonary or constitutional, or through implica- tion of another organ. Factors determining Clinical Variation. — What determines the remarkable variation of clinical course? Reference has already been made incidentally to the leading contributory factors. They include— {a) The ave7iue and point of attack.—When the lung is infected primarily, by way of the air-passages, the progress is likely to be slower. The life-history of the tubercle bacillus explains why this should be. The growth of the tubercle bacillus is slow as compared with that of many other micro-organisms. The slowness of pro- gress may continue so long as the spread of the process is by continuity. The resultant local changes, especially fibrosis, act in part as barriers to the extension of the process. When the spread occurs by aspiration of tuberculous discharge, e.g. from bronchial tubes, the subsequent progress may be very rapid. When the avenue of pulmonary infection is the blood channel, the progress is most rapid. In such case the process may be truly fulmi- nant. This may occur secondarily to an earlier affection of lung, or may be secondary to a local process in another organ or structure (visceral, glandular, osseous, cutaneous tuberculosis). The earlier process may have been latent, until by mischance {e.g. gradual softening or surgical interference) entrance is obtained into blood- channels. When the spread occurs by lymphatic channels, the rate of progress is dependent on the permeability of these. The channels are more likely to be permeable in rapidly advancing than in sluggish conditions. They are more likely to be open in young than in old subjects. {b) The constitution of the patient.—We have seen that individuals vary very much in respect of susceptibility to tuberculosis. While that is true, yet the less susceptible person may become inoculated. In such case the progress of the disease is likely to be slow. Natural barriers to advance, existing at numerous points, offer, each in turn, extra resistance. The converse is true of more susceptible subjects: they offer less resistance to inoculation, and one by one the natural barriers are more easily overcome. From this point of view family history throws important light on the probable rate of progi-ess. (c) The actual state of the patient.—Individual susceptibility varies much from time to time. Thus the child after measles or whooping-cough, and the adult after influenza, offer less resist- ance than at other times. The frequency with which pulmonary tuberculosis follows these is recognised; commonly thereafter the clinical course of an already existing tuberculosis becomes more rapid. Such diminution in resistance may be referable to general conditions or local changes in the lung, e.g. catarrhal states of passages, pneumonokoniosis. {d) Existence of precedent tuberculosis either in lung or elsewhere.—Precedent tuberculosis is doubly significant. The recent manifestation may be definitely secondary to an earlier affec- tion. The course of events will then be rapid or slow, according to the avenue of extension ; or the recent manifestation may be expression of a fresh infection. For one tuberculous attack, far from affoi'ding immunity, actually produces a liability to further attack. As it proceeds, the recent process may kindle the older one into fresh activity ((/. the results of tuberculin injection), and thereby bacilli or their products, or both, be disseminated more widely. (e) The domestic and social co7iditions of the patient.—These play an important part. Apart from inherited liability we have recognised an acquired liability of tissue. In proportion as the patient can remove himself without delay from vicious influences (indoor life, unhealthy occupation, irregularity of meals, etc.), the progress of the disease may be delayed or