35 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS crepitations, with a metallic or sub-metallic (so- called " consonating ") ring. Vocal resonance is frequently increased to the extent of pecto- riloquy, i.e. articulate sounds are conducted to the ear with much delicacy. This is usually best determined in relation to whispered speech (whispering pectoriloquy). What has been termed post-tussic suction or the india-rubber ball sound may be discovered sometimes when the patient coughs during auscultation. Follow- ing the cough, there is audible a high-pitched inspiratory sound, which has been attributed to a suction action, dependent on the elasticity of the consolidated tissue round the vomica. Fvirther, in relation to large vomicae with abundant secretion, some degree of succussion may be sought. Succussion is, however, more characteristic of hydro- (pyo-) pneumothorax {q.v.). Similarly, Trousseau's bell or anvil phenomenon, which is characteristic of pneumo- thorax {q.v.), is also occasionally described in relation to large vomicae. When the vomica is large, and especially when it is on the left side, cardio-pneumonic murmurs, systolic in time, may sometimes be heard. At other times clicking accompaniments are present in relation to the systolic phase. (c) Physical Signs of Incipient Tuberculosis.— The early determination of pulmonary tuber- culosis by physical signs affords scope for great refinement of methods. In proportion to the earliness of the process, the physical signs are slighter; they are, consequently, apt to be missed. Reliable skill can only be obtained after prolonged and careful practice. Auscultation affords the more delicate tests. The auscultatory phenomena include slight modifications of the normal respiratory murmur, e.g. enfeeblement, harshness, interrupted or cog- wheel or jerky respiration, prolonged expiration, blowing expiration (broncho-vesicular). When the respiration is actually bronchial, the process is something more than incipient merely. Such phenomena are of special significance when they are localised. Thus enfeeblement of respiration, when universal, may point to bad habit of respiration or other general defect. Similarly, universal harshness may be due to bronchial catarrh, and so with the other modifications which have been mentioned. The same phenomena when localised to one or other portion of the chest are indicative of local damage to lung, and in the great majority of instances such local damage is of tuberculous nature. In like manner, the presence of localised accompaniments is significant, e.g. crepitations, rhonchi. The presence of crepi- tations here and there affords strong corrobora- tive evidence ; their detection should lead to a most careful scrutiny of the breath sounds throughout the chest. Definite crepitation is not likely to be present without alteration of respiratory murmur. The latter is frequently missed by the unpractised ear. In the same way, rhonchi, when localised, e.g. to an apex, are of greater significance than when generally distributed. In the latter case they may testify to the presence of bronchitis, while in the former they mark a patch of diseased lung- tissue round which a catarrhal process lingers. Percussion yields results of importance even at early stages. All portions of the lung must be examined. Corresponding portions must be compared with care; more especially the two apices must be tested comparatively in respect of percussion sound and extent of resonant area. In testing the apices from this point of view, in addition to practising percussion anteriorly, laterally, and posteriorly, it is serviceable to percuss vertically from above downwards, the pleximeter finger being disposed in curved fashion over the upper limit of the lung from back to front. Thereby it will be found that changes in resonance dependent on early apical consolidation are more certainly revealed. Lastly, hyper-resonance occurring in patchy areas must always be regarded as suspicious, even if dulness be less certainly determined. Palpation and inspection may indicate slight degrees of flattening or retraction and local in- sufficiency of movement which may be significant. Repeated examinations are often necessary at the earliest stages. The results obtained at each examination should be carefully noted at the time and compared with the results of subsequent examination. By such means exact- ness of early diagnosis is ensured. Having regard to the issues involved, too great care cannot be devoted to the diagnosis at this stage. The physical signs will be interpreted always in light of other manifestations. Further, the differences which exist normally between the two sides must not be overlooked. Thus, at the right apex, the respiratory sounds are commonly more pronounced, and expiration prolonged and even blowing. The difference in anatomical limits and relations on the two sides must be kept in view. {d) Physical Signs of Cicatrising Lung.— The phenomena are more conspicuous when the left side is involved. Inspection and palpation may reveal considerable deformation of thorax. The affected side may be found flattened and smaller, in whole or in part. The anatomical fossae and interspaces may be unusually marked. There may be undue exposure of other organs, e.g. heart and great vessels, through retraction of lung. Cardiac pulsation may be visible over a wider area. Marked pulsation may be observed in relation to the pulmonary artery (less commonly in relation to aorta). The vibration produced by closure of the pulmonary valves may be evident on palpation. There is frequently evidence of displacement of organs. For example, the heart may be drawn upwards and to the left; the diaphragm and abdominal