476 MUMPS, OK EPIDEMIC PAROTITIS tions affecting the nervous system may arise. Meningitis has been recorded in a fair number of instances, either with or apart from orchitis. Recovery is almost invariable, but may be slow, and is sometimes attended by aphasia or agraphia, hemiplegia or monoplegia, ataxia, etc. Acute mania and other forms of insanity have been reported, and so has general peripheral neuritis. Facial paralysis may develop during the course of the parotitis, when we may reason- ably conclude that it is due to a spread of the inflammation to the sheath of the seventh nerve ; but it has been seen to arise when the glandular affection was very slight, and also beginning a week or two after all inflammation had subsided. (4) Affections of the Ear and Eye.—Otitis media from direct spread of the inflammation, or by an accidental infection passing along the Eustachian tube, is a rarer and less important complication of mumps than nerve deafness. That total loss of hearing may follow mumps is well known to aurists, and considerable attention has been paid to it by them. Politzer states that sudden incurable nerve deafness following mumps is not uncommon, and that there is neither vertigo nor fever, the lesion being either in the nucleus of the eighth pair, or possibly in the labyrinth. He has seen it precede as well as follow the disease. Most authorities, how- ever, regard it as due to exudation or htemor- rhage into the labyrinth, and describe it as being ushered in by vertigo, vomiting, tinnitus, and sometimes a staggering gait; these disappear, but the deafness remains. Nerve deafness may arise as late as the fifteenth day; one or both ears may be affected, and all are agreed that it is quite incurable. Optic neuritis and neuro-retinitis followed by optic atrophy, and leading to total blindness, are among the more disastrous effects of mumps, but are fortunately rare. Paralysis of accom- modation has been seen, and a condition has been described by Hirschberg as " lachrymal mumps," in which first one and then the other lachrymal gland become swollen and painful, the inflammation subsiding in the course of a week or so. (5) Among the more general complications epistaxis, pneumonia, endo- and peri-carditis, arthritis, splenic enlargement, nephritis, gastro- intestinal catarrh, jaundice, and skin eruptions may be mentioned. The nephritis may be attended by hsematuria as well as albuminuria, and fatal urjemia has been observed on two occasions. Numerous though these complications are, none are very common; some epidemics are worse than others in this respect, and it has not infrequently been noticed that at one time one series of sequelte, at another, another group, was prevalent. Diagnosis.—This is rarely difficult. Symp- tomatic parotitis is excluded by the absence of any primary disease likely to give rise to it. In young infants enlargement of the preauricular gland is not uncommon ; mumps, however, is rare at this age ; in most cases of simple adenitis some source of irritation, often about the nostrils, can be found, the swelling is unilateral, and suppuration is common. In older children mumps may be simulated by enlargement of the upper cervical glands, when there is much surrounding oedema, and I have been misled by the occurrence of an enlarged cervical gland in a little boy suffering from unsuspected Bright's disease, with oedema /)f the cheek and neck. Periostitis of the lowpr jaw may also resemble mumps. When any difficulty does arise, how- ever, it is usually only temporary, and is solved in a day or two by the implication of the opposite side, and this is, after all, the principal guide at our disposal — the only one, indeed, in cases where the parotids are spared, and the submaxillary and sublingual glands alone involved. Prognosis.—This is almost always good, especially in children. No matter how severe the complications may appear there is always a fair prospect of recovery. Local septic processes and uraemia have been the most frequent causes of death. Deafness, unless due to otitis media, will be permanent, as is also the case in blind- ness following optic atrophy. Recovery from the nervous complications is the rule. Treatment.—Active measures are not re- quired. The patient should be kept in bed so long as the temperature is elevated, and confined to the house until the swelling is gone. In adult males it is probably wise to enjoin more prolonged rest, since orchitis may be caused by allowing the patient to go about too early. The diet should be fluid, on account of the diffi- culty of opening the jaws. In mild cases the only local application necessaiy is to cover the inflamed glands with spongiopiline or cotton- wool. Should much pain be complained of hot fomentations will be grateful; or the parts may be smeared with equal proportions of extract of belladonna and glycerine, or a little opium and belladonna liniment may be sprinkled on warm flannel, and renewed as required. An antiseptic gargle is useful: Eustace Smith re- commends half a tea-spoonful of the following formula in a tumbler of warm water as a mouth- wash :—R. Chloroform, ni_xv.. Sat. sol. of salol in sp. vini rect. ad 3j. Complications must be treated on general principles as they arise. An inflamed testicle should be packed with hot cotton-wool and covered with oiled silk ; leeches may be found useful in relieving the symptoms of meningitis. Mursena Punctata. See Snake- Bites AND Poisonous Fishes {Fish). M U rder. See Medicine, Forensic (Wounds, Accident, Suicide or Murder).