171 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF terior part of the inner wall of the axilla along the line of the long thoracic artery. In the later stages of the disease, the glands towards the apex of the axilla, as well as tliose below Fig. 5.—Opposite surface of the slice illustrated iu tlie previous figure, showing the appearance of the surgeon's cut-surface when the gland has not been completely removed. Same lettering as in Fig. 4. (Nitric acid preparation.) the clavicle, and the posterior group lying along the subscapular vessels, may all become infected. Some of the lymphatics of the mamma pass directly to the subclavicular glands without traversing the first or pectoral groiip. Congenital Anomalies Polymastia. —Supernumerary mam mary struc- tures occur more frequently than is generally supposed; they are often very rudimentary, and are liable to be overlooked, being not infrequently mistaken for moles or warty growths. In about two-thirds of the cases only one accessory structure exists ; a pair not infrequently occur, and as many as eight supernumerary nipples have been recorded. The accessory mammary structure takes the form of a more or less well-defined nipple, with or without an areola (polythelia); of a glandi^lar structure without a nipple; or, more rarely, of a perfect organ capable of undergoing complete functional evolution. Supernumerary nipples were found to occur in 7'6 per cent of a large series of subjects consecutively examined by Mitchell Bruce ; they were aboiit twice more common in males than in females. Williams has shown than in by far the greater number of instances of polymastia, the super- numerary structures are developed in positions which correspond to those occupied normally by the glands of polymastic animals. They are therefore almost invariably ventral, and occur along two lines which converge from the axillae to the groins; their existence is attributed to atavistic reversion. In fully three-fourths of the cases the additional mammary structure is situated a little below and internal to the normal mamma. Axillary mammse are de- cidedly rare; many of the cases which have been recorded as such are, in all probability, either modified sebaceous or sweat glands, or consist of an unvisually well-developed process of the mamma more or less completely seques- trated from the main gland. Accessory mammary structures have been met with between the normal pair and the axillae, in the middle line over the sternum, and upon the abdomen, but are very rarely present in other parts of the body. Undoubted ex- amples, however, have been met with upon the shoulder, the buttock, the thigh, and in the groin. The case recorded by Barth as occurring on the cheek was not confirmed by Waldeyer. Like polydactylism, polymastia is often heredi- tary ; occasionally it is associated with im- perfect development of the pelvic organs. Supernumerary mammary structures do not call for surgical interference unless they amount to a deformity, or unless the condition gives rise to pain and discomfort attendant upon their functional engorgement during pregnancy and lactation; in these circumstances the accessory structure should be excised. Amazia.— Complete absence of one or both breasts is a much rarer condition than poly- mastia. Generally it is only one breast that is absent, and, as in hare-lip, the deficiency is more frequent upon the left side. Amazia is very frequently associated with deficiency or total absence of the sternal fibres of the pecto- ralis major, and sometimes with imperfect de- velopment also of one or more of the subjacent ribs and intercostal muscles. A few cases have been reported in which the upper extremity on the corresponding side was defective. Scanzoni reports two cases of unilateral amazia associated with complete absence of the ovary on the cor- responding side. The subject of amazia is ably treated by John Thomson, who, besides report- ing three cases observed by himself, summarises the records of eighty-nine others. Microniazia.—Imperfect development of the mamma occurs more frequently than amazia and, like it, may be associated with deficiency in development of the chest and pelvic organs. The defective mamma maintains throughout life the infantile or male type, and if the subject of the defect be a female she often displays a tendency to masculine characteristics. Athelia.—Congenital absence of the nipple only is also commoner than amazia, and gener- ally affects both breasts. Along with acquired imperfection of the nipple, due to infantile mas- titis, ulcers, burns, etc., it owes its importance to the troubles to which it gives rise during the puerperium. Hypertrophy Hypertrophy of the mamma is a rare affection, and is, apparently, more commonly met with in tropical countries. In true hypertrophy both