MEDICINE, FORENSIC 255 usually the result of violence, whereas heemor- rhages into the substance of this organ are commonly due to disease, e.g. apoplexy. Concussion of the brain is a frequent accom- paniment of fracture of the skull, but also may occur as a result of any direct or indirect violence to the head. The symptoms of con- cussion are sudden unconsciousness, which may last for seconds, hours, or days. Respiration is irregular, pulse feeble or imperceptible ; there is pallor and coldness of the skin, sometimes vomiting. Concussion may cause death at once, without any lesion being found at the post- mortem examination. As a rule, more or less contusion of the meninges or surface of the brain is found—not always beneath the site of the external violence, but often in a situation directly opposite (contre coup). Cases of con- cussion and compression are especially liable to be mistaken for alcoholic intoxication, more particularly in the class of person which comes under the notice of the police, and in these cases it is advisable to exercise great caution in forming a diagnosis. Fractures in other parts of the hody are of importance medico-legally, chiefly with reference to the question of their causation—whether by violence inflicted by another, or indirectly as a result of a fall. In deciding this question, the presence and character of any external marks of violence will be of assistance; but it is not necessary that a blow causing fracture should leave any external mark, although as a rule such signs will be found. The constitution and state of health of the individual is also a matter of importance. Some people, apparently in good health, may suff"er from fracture of the clavicle, scapula, ribs or thigh as a result of mere muscular movements, and even such simple acts as sneezing and coughing may pro- duce fracture of ribs; while in diseases inter- fering with the nutrition of the body—rickets, moUities ossium, cancer, insanity, certain affec- tions of the nervous system—fractures are very liable to occur owing to increased fragility of the bones; in the case of the insane such fractures are frequently attributed to undue violence, and form the subject of judicial inquiry. In the aged the bones are more brittle and liable to break. The question whether a fracture was caused during life or after death, which often arises in the case of bodies recovered from the water, where injuries may have been caused by barges, lock-gates, etc., will be determined by the evi- dence of hsemorrhage, and infiltration of the adjacent tissues and other signs of vital re- action. Fractures produced after death will show an absence of such appearances. In fractures caused some time before death, there will be signs of repair and healing; but in greatly debilitated and old people such signs of repair may be very slight, even for a consider- able time after the occurrence. In fractures produced either immediately before or shortly after death, a definite deduction cannot be made. The determination of the age of a fracture must in recent cases be estimated from the stage of the reparative processes, due considera- tion being paid to the state of the general health of the individual. In old fractures no positive opinion can be formed. Wounds from Fire-Arms .... 255 Burns ....... 257 Death from Lightning . . . .258 Death from Electric Currents . . . 258 „ Starvation .... 258 „ Cold and Exposure . . 258 Wounds from Fire-Arms.—The appearances and effects produced by these will vary chiefly according to the kind of weapon used, the dis- tance at which it is discharged, and the nature of the charge and projectile in each case. In criminal practice we have almost solely to deal with cases of wounds from revolvers and pistols or from shot guns. Rifles are sometimes used suicidally, by soldiers mainly, but only rarely homicidally; and the wounds from such weapons do not often raise questions of a medico-legal character. Wounds produced by fire-arms have to be considered mainly with the view of determining the important question of whether they were caused by accident, suicide, or homicide. A suicidal wound must, except in extremely rare circumstances, present the characters of a near wound. A '■'■near" wound presents the following characters. Around the entrance wound of the projectile there is a zone of brown parchment- like skin, produced by the action of the flame of the discharge ; in and around this area there is an irregular zone of blackening, due to two causes: first, to small particles of unconsumed powder embedded in the skin, and secondly., to the smoke of combustion; the latter can be re- moved by sponging, the former is permanent. The hairs, if any, around the part are singed or burnt. The wound of penetration in the skin is not necessarily round when caused by a round bullet, but is frequently irregular in shape, and often of large size, due to the fact that the force acting is not alone that of the projectile, but also the expansive force of gases developed by the explosion, which enter along with the bullet, and tear or rend the skin and tissues. In a muzzle-loader, the wad may also tend to increase the size of the external wound. In a weapon held against or very close to the body, the above characteristic eff'ects produced by the flame, smoke, and powder on the skin may be absent, but they will be found internally along the track of the bullet.