LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBEECULOSIS 32 occur during sleep if a sufficient supply of air be available. Out of some 600 treated on open- air lines I have not seen a case. Frequently the haemoptysis is preceded by a feeling of tightness or oppression about the chest, which is relieved after bleeding has supervened. In other instances there is a history of strain or forced effort of some kind or undue excitement. The patient experiences a tickling sensation in the throat, which leads to cough. This is accompanied by a feeling of vi^armth in the line of the trachea, and a sweetish taste about the palate and mouth. On expectoration the patient finds to his surprise that he has dis- charged blood. What is the eflfect of the haemoptysis'? In many cases it relieves. The patient feels much more comfortable. The sense of oppression disappears. Sometimes the haamorrhage gradu- ally tails away and disappears, not to return; in other instances the haemoptysis may be repeated several times. Consequential anaemia may thus result either from repeated htemoptysis or more acutely from a single large haemorrhage. This may seriously prejudice the issue. Or a smart reactionary pyrexia may supervene. Some degree of pyrexic disturbance is common enough—though not constant—after haemop- tysis. In sudden, copious haemorrhage, the patient may show alarming suffocative symptoms and may even die of suffocation. Pain mid Local Discomfort.—This is a most uncertain symptom. It is frequently absent in the worst cases; throughout tfieir entire course there may be no complaint of the sort. In other instances it is a conspicuous and recurrent feature. The symptom is of different kinds and degrees. It may consist of a feeling of oppression or tiredness throughout the chest; or it may be described as tickling. In other cases actual pain is reported, of dragging, scrap- ing, hacking, tearing, cutting, or stabbing character. The pain is commonly intermittent, but may be constant. In either case it tends to be increased on effort, deep respiration, coughing or laughing. The cause and seat of discomfort are worthy of careful consideration. Thus the irritation may be referable to the thoracic wall and its attachments. The skin and muscles are some- times hyperaesthetic, and this may be due to neuritis. Neuralgic manifestations (intercostal, etc.) may be similarly traced. The bones (sternum, clavicle, ribs, vertebrae) and cartilages may be unduly sensitive, as on direct percussion. Pain at the lower part of the chest, increased on coughing, is frequently the expression of strain on the attachments of the diaphragm and other muscles. Such a condition may afford definite indication for sedative measures in re- spect of the cough. Pain of scraping, dragging, cutting, or stabbing character is probably of pleural origin. At the same time, it is worthy of remark that not every pleuritic manifestation is accompanied by pain. From the state of the pleura of tuberculous patients, revealed post- mortem, it is manifest that in the majority of such attacks, pain must be wanting. Pleuritic pain is likely to be increased on respiration and coughing. It may be referred to almost any part of the thoracic wall from apex to base. Sometimes it is referred to the abdomen, pos- sibly when the diaphragmatic pleura is especially implicated. In pneumothorax the pain is often intense, sudden in onset, and either localised or more widespread. Pain of tearing or gripping nature may depend on straining or giving of adhesions. Hacking pain may depend on some of the preceding causes or be due to iiTitation about the larynx or bronchi. The more general sense of oppression may be referable to congestive states of lung and the blocking of the respira- tory passages with secretion. The lung itself appears to be little sensitive. The acutest pro- cess, e.g. rapid dissemination of tubercle, is probably unaccompanied by pain, and this is similarly wanting in relation to advancing lung disintegration. It may be convenient to refer here to the frequency of myotatic irritability. The muscles, apart from tenderness on percussion, may be unduly irritable. Marked fibrillation follows direct percussion. Immediately at the point of percussion a small prominence appears—the so-called "myoidema." These phenomena be- come more marked with the progress of the disease. They occur, however, in relation to other wasting conditions. Dyspnoea is often complained of. More commonly its presence is admitted by the patient when questioned. In many instances it is hardly, if at all, present. Often enough nothing of the sort is experienced, save on going up hill and the like or on making effort of other kind. This is a paradoxical symptom, and is not always manifest where a priori it might be looked for. Doubtless individual nervous irri- tability plays a part in its determination. It is especially present where the lung is rapidly and diffusely involved. Thus in acute miliary dissemination it is a marked feature, although physical signs may be sparse. Similarly during congestive exacerbations of a less acute process it becomes conspicuous. Dyspnoea is intensified under pyrexic conditions. In more chronic conditions it is likely to be present in proportion to the amount of fibrous change; on this account it is frequently a marked feature in stonemason's phthisis. It is marked in rela- tion to so-called compensatory emphysema. Elsewhere the writer has pointed out that the term "compensatory emphysema" is on this account misleading. In presence of a diseased condition characterised by dyspnoea, it is doubtful compensation to have developed an-