100 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF A few clinical examples may be cited to illustrate those anatomical facts. Thus, in children, enlargement of the occipital glands should always indicate examination of the scalp for suppurative processes and for pediculi; enlargement of the internal maxillary glands, almost invariably associated with that of the deep superior cervical, is a strong presumption in favour of the presence of adenoids. Affection of the axillary glands, in a woman, should make us look at the mamma,—of the inferior superficial inguinal, should suggest some lesion of the foot or toes,—of the superficial superior inguinal, should make us suspect an affection of the genitals or anus. Such examples might, of course, be multiplied indefinitely. Lymphatic glands are extremely variable in number and size in individuals in any given situation, but it is not so commonly recognised that fresh glands may be formed on com- paratively slight stimulus, and may disappear when the stimulus is withdrawn. The best known example of this is the increase in the glands of the axilla during lactation. When the process terminates, many of the glands become involuted and transformed into fat; but should a carcinoma appear later in the breast, the glands are again developed. Moreover, glands which have been removed are very readily replaced, and the newly-formed glands are not distinguishable from the original ones after some time. This depends upon the fact that these glands, though complicated in appear- ance, are really very simple in structure, and require nothing for their development or re- formation which is not present in any loose connective tissue. The necessary elements are lymphatic vessels and the connective tissue surrounding them, and blood-vessels. The leucocytes are brought both by the lymph- vessels and the blood, and entangled in the meshes of the connective tissue. Lymph-glands taken from the same situation in diff"erent normal individuals will be found also to vary immensely in activity. This can be measured by the number of germ-centres in the cortex, and by the number of mitotic figures in the leucocytes of these germ-centres. The entire system of lymphatic glands, there- fore, forms an organ of defence which varies in power immensely according to the needs and constitution of the individual. It is interesting to note that in animals the development of the system varies much according to the race and habits of the animal. The glands are few and small in the rodents, more numerous in the carnivores, still better developed in the ungulates, and best of all in man. The glands in different regions of the body are not all equally impoi'tant in a morphological sense. Those which I have elsewhere called " primary" lymph-glands are those which are the first to be developed in all mammals, and wliich are possessed by all mammals which I have examined. They are the glands surrounding the large vessels of the neck, those of the axilla, groin, and those of the root of the mesentery. The " secondary " glands are those at the bend of the elbow, in the pop- liteal space, in the mesentery, round the aorta and iliac arteries, etc. These are developed in some animals in foetal life, in others not till after birth, and sometimes imperfectly even in the adult. The "tertiary" glands in man in- clude those which are not constantly present, as, for instance, the prelaryngeal glands, and which lie off the main course of the lymph- stream, and those which are formed in adult life on some special occasion, as during the ex- ceptional activity of some organ, or in patho- logical conditions. The "primary" glands all lie at points towards which numbers of lymph- vessels converge, and near large arteries. The "secondary" glands are generally interposed in the course of main channels or at secondary junctions, while the "tertiary" ones either lie off the main stream altogether, or are used to reinforce pre-existing ones. They are probably sometimes developed from the small collections of lymphoid tissue, which may be found here and there on the course of the lymphatics, by a process identical with that passed through in foetal life. Thoracic Duct.—As has been already indi- cated in the table given above, there is a certain amount of variation in the vessels which flow into the duct, and there is a possibility of variations also in the place into which the duct opens. This is usually the outer side of the left internal jugular vein, in the angle formed by its junction with the subclavian vein ; but it may be into either of these veins at other spots or into other veins low down in the neck, by one or several openings. The only practical importance of this point is that the surgeon when operating in this neighbourhood should be on his guard against finding the duct in some unexpected situation. But little is known of the affection of the duct by disease. An eruption of tubercles in its walls has been found to be followed, as might be expected, by miliary tuberculosis, and there are several cases on record where cancer of various abdominal organs has caused a secondary affection of the duct which has occluded it. I saw recently a case of cancer of the pancreas where this had taken place, and where a true chylous ascites had occurred from the resulting dilatation and rupture of lacteals. If the ol)struction takes place in the thorax, one or lioth pleural cavities may be filled with chylous fluid ; but, as a general rule, cancer of the duct is not followed by chylous extravasations because the process of blocking is usually a very gradual one, and there is time for an anastomotic cii'culation to foi-m, and for the right lymphatic duct, for instance, to assume the functions of the thoracic