MEDICINE, FORENSIC 247 of over-laying, attention to this point may afford corroboration, or the opposite, of a mother's story as to the mode of death. Distinction between Post-mortem, Lividity and Bruises.—In cases of murder there is no more important procedure to be observed at the post- mortem examination than to distinguish between a recent bruise, the result of violence, and post- mortem lividity. However simple the distinction may appear in certain cases, there is only one way of absolutely differentiating the two con- ditions, viz., by incising the skin and subcutaneous tissues at the spot. By this means we see at once whether we have to deal with an extravasa- tion of blood into the tissues (bruise), or merely a congestion of blood - vessels (post - mortem lividity). A bruise may, of course, present other points of distinction, such as injury of the cuticle and swelling, while an older bruise may show nuances of colour; but it is a good rule to incise every suspicious discoloration under all circumstances. Putrefaction.—The last post-mortem pheno- menon and the most absolute sign of death is putrefaction. After rigor mortis has passed off, the muscles again become perfectly flaccid, but with this distinction as compared with the flaccidity present immediately after death, viz., that they no longer react to stimuli;—they are dead, and commence to undergo resolution or decomposition. The first sign of putrefaction usually observed is a greenish discoloration of the lower part of the abdomen, except in death by drowning, when, as a rule, the change is first seen in the neck and face. The green discoloration spreads over the abdomen, which becomes distended with gas ; the skin of the neck, chest, and upper limbs then become greenish, while the larger vessels show through the skin as dark irregular lines, and the subcutaneous tissues feel spongy from putrefactive emphysema, more especially where the texture is loose, as in the neck and scrotum. The cuticle becomes moist, raised in bullse, and peels off easily—gradually the skin becomes darker in colour and more and more distended and disorganised until it gives way, allowing of the escape of the contained gases, after which the various soft parts rapidly undergo resolution. Internally, decomposition of the various struc- tures and organs is likewise proceeding, but it advances in them with varying rapidity, depend- ing largely upon the looseness of their texture and amount of blood contained by them, condi- tions which materially hasten resolution. The stomach, liver, spleen, and intestines are the first organs to show signs of decomposition. The lungs, heart, and kidneys are more resistant, and may remain recognisable for many weeks, or even months, after death. The uterus is one of the most resistant organs in the body, and in the case of Harriet Lane murdered by Wain- Wright, was found recognisable, and capable of affording information relative to her identity, a year after her murder. Hair, teeth, bones, may be found practically unaltered after many years. The accumulation of gases of putrefaction in the various cavities of the body may exert very con- siderable pressure, and thus we frequently see an escape of blood-stained froth from the mouth and nose, due to pressure of the diaphragm up- wards by the distension of the abdomen, the same cause also tending to empty the heart of its contained blood by forcing it into the large vessels, while it is important to note that the contents of the stomach may be forced up the oesophagus in a similar manner. The conditions which influence the onset and progress of putrefaction are manifold. The primary cause is, of course, the presence of bac- teria, and hence it may be stated generally that any conditions which prevent or retard their access to the body, or the presence of conditions unfavourable to their growth, ipso facto retard putrefaction. Thus burial, immersion in water, even cover- ing of the body with tight-fitting clothes, delays putrefaction. Cold retards, and warmth, especially when accompanied with moisture, favours decomposi- tion. The condition of the body and the cause of death also exert a great influence. Certain diseased states, such as septicsemia, dropsy, acute fevers, cause rapid putrefaction; while persons whose tissues are badly novirished, or degenerated, as in chronic alcoholism, quickly undergo resolution. Spare people, newly-born children, the aged, and those dying from chronic diseases, generally decompose slowly. Bodies which have been exposed to much vio- lence decompose rapidly; but if a considerable loss of blood has taken place, this tends to pro- duce an opposite effect. In death from certain poisons, e.g. arsenic, the body is said to remain fresh for a long period, but this result can only occur after prolonged administration, and not in cases of acute poisoning. It is impossible to fix definite periods of time for the onset and progress of putrefaction. In this country the first green discoloration of the abdomen usually appears in from twenty-four to seventy-two hours, and the subsequent progress depends on ■ the surrounding conditions and influences mentioned above. In exceptional cases, in summer, the whole body may be green and distended with gas within twenty- four hours, while sometimes in winter, after the lapse of a week a body may show no alteration. Such facts, viz., the variations observed in bodies, dead from the same cause for the same number of hours, and placed under the same conditions, make it impossible to speak dogmatically as to the period of time which has elapsed since death. Putrefaction in water differs from that in