MEDICINE, FORENSIC 241 Death from Asphtxia— General Considerations . . .259 Hanging, Strangulation, Throttling, 260 Drowning, Suffocation, Overlaying, 262 CO2 and CO Poisoning . . .263 Rape. Examination of Seminal Stains 263 Pregnancy and Delivery . . .265 Criminal Abortion . . . .266 Infanticide 267 Examination of Blood-Stains . 269 See also Abortion {Medico-legal Aspects) ; Adipocbre ; Asphyxia ; Atrophy, Infantile {Medico-legal) ; Burns and Scalds {Medico-legal Aspects); Civil Incapacity ; Gonorrhceal In- fection {Medico - legal Aspects); Hypnotism ; Insanity, Nature and Symptoms ; Insanity, General Treatment ; Lunacy ; Puerperium, Physiology {Evidences of Recent Delivery); Toxicology ; Vice ; Wounds. Medical Jurisprudence, Forensic Medicine, Legal Medicine, are terms used to denote that science which deals with the application of medicine, in all its branches, to the purposes of the law, not only in connection with criminal offences, but also in the determination of ques- tions arising under the civil law, affecting the liberty and rights of the individual. State medicine is a term of wider significance, and includes not only medical jurisprudence, but also hygiene or the science which treats of the relation between medicine and the laws affecting the public health. A general knowledge of medical jurisprudence is necessary for every medical man engaged in the practice of his profession, in order to enable him to fulfil his responsibilities and duty to the public, and at the same time to safeguard his own interests and professional reputation. No active member of the profession can en- tirely exclude or prevent cases arising in his practice which involve questions of a medico- legal nature, and which may entail his appear- ance in a court of law ; and it must also be re- membered that, however well qualified a doctor may be for the ordinary treatment of disease, it by no means follows that he is therefore capable of adapting his knowledge to the special require- ments of the law, so that it may be of assistance in the elucidation of crime and the administra- tion of justice, unless he has studied in medical jurisprudence the nature and objects of the evidence required by the law under various circumstances. Historical.—It was not until the sixteenth century that the necessity for medical evidence in the elucidation of various questions connected with personal injuries—infanticide, poisoning, pregnancy, and violent death—was recognised ; and it is to Germany that the credit is due of having first introduced, in the year 1507, a penal code in which the claims of medicine to be heard in such cases received recognition. VOL. VI Germany also provided the first systematic teaching on the subject, in the University of Leipzig, about the middle of the seventeenth century. Many writings upon medico-legal sub- jects appeared in Germany, France, and Italy during the next century, but it was practically not until the close of the eighteenth century that the subject began to assume definite form, and came to be based upon sound principles. To France, especially to Fodore, Orfila, and Devergie, must be ascribed much of the credit of first placing the teaching of forensic medicine upon a more scientific foundation. In England the subject was little known, and nowhere systematically taught, until the in- stitution by Government of a professorship of medical jurisprudence in Edinburgh University in the year 1803. Dr. Duncan was appointed the first professor, but his father had previously, in 1801, delivered lectures in the University upon the subject. From this time onward medical jurisprudence continued to be regularly taught in Edinburgh, and gradually it has come to form a compulsory subject of study and examination in all the medical schools of the United Kingdom. Certification of Deaths and Legal Procedure in connection with Deaths from Violence.— Every registered practitioner must give a certificate as to the cause of death in any case in which he has been personally in attendance, provided he believes death to have been due to natural causes, and there is no suspicion to the contrary. It is not necessary that the medical man should have been present at the time of death, but he must have been in attendance on the deceased in his last illness. The certificate of death should be handed to a responsible relative or friend of the deceased. If a certificate is not furnished to the de- ceased's friends, the registrar may demand one to be forwarded to him. In all cases where death has been caused directly or indirectly by violence and is attended by suspicious circumstances, or when death has been sudden, or the cause of death is unknown, information should be sent to the authorities, and a certificate of death be withheld. In cases of fatal accident, it must be re- membered that these may form the subject of judicial proceedings, and therefore a certificate of death should only be given by a medical man after the authorities have had an opportunity of investigating the case. Caution in certifying such cases is all the more necessary when death takes place at a considerable interval of time after the accident, and the connection between the two occurrences is therefore not so apparent. Procedure in England and Ireland.—When a certificate of death is withheld for any of the above reasons, information should be given to the coroner or to the police. 16