LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 40 be wholly attributed to the fever and disturb- ance of nutrition; rather are they to be regarded as part expression of the systemic intoxication, whose eifects we have already considered in relation to circulation and other functions. On the other hand, it is remarkable how many patients continue to work hard in every line of life, when already the disease has played fearful havoc with the constitution. Gastro-intesti7ml Disturbance. — This is fre- quent. Indeed, loss of appetite, navisea, and digestive difficulty are often the first symptoms present. So true is this that intractable dyspepsia ought to raise a suspicion of tubercu- losis. The leading feature of the disturbance is delay in the digestive process. In the later stages, this is to be attributed to deficient muscular activity, lowered circulation, and insufficient HCl secretion, as effects of the toxins. At the earlier stages, probably the toxins are responsible in part; but much must be attri- buted to the unhygienic life commonly led by the patients. Proof of this is afforded by the rapid—almost immediate—disappearance of the symptoms on open-air treatment being adopted. Vomiting is common. It occurs sometimes in relation to the taking of food. In most cases, however, it is independent of meals. In either case, it is usually preceded by cough. Some patients experience after the taking of food a tickling irritation which precipitates cough (Magenhusten). Others, apart from taking of food, are seized with a violent—often paroxysmal — cough, which is succeeded by vomiting (toux ^metisante). The vomiting is not associated with nausea. The cough is succeeded by the vomiting so closely as to suggest a close causal relationship. Most probably they are both dependent on undue irritability of the vagus. Stimulus of one set of terminals extends its influence to other branches. The initial irritation may have its seat in pharynx, larynx, or stomach. Perhaps the trunk of the vagus is pressed on, as by enlarged glands. It would seem reason- able to admit, however, that the vomiting may sometimes be the result of direct mechanical disturbance through the violence of the cough, just as the woman's bladder may be emptied. Some observers have reported tenderness over the coeliac plexus. The bowel is frequently sluggish. Indeed, apart from complication, constipation is the common habit. The causes which lead to diarrhoea are considered under the head of complications. Siveatiwj has been always regarded a char- acteristic symptom. It is esteemed as such by the layman. And yet it is absent in some cases throughout, and it need hardly be present in any if a thorough-going open-air method is adopted. At the Victoria Hospital for Con- sumption, Edinburgh, sweating is of the rarest occurrence after the first week of residence. Patients are frequently admitted, who have sweated so profusely that their clothes have been changed several times in the night, and in a few days' time the symptom disappears. This fact has important bearings on the explanation of the symptoms. As usually occurring, the sweating is reported especially in relation to sleep, both by night and day. The patient wakes in a drenching perspira- tion, with a feeling of chill. Frequently the sweating occurs contemporaneously with a fall of temperature. But it may occur apart from pyrexia, and it is frequently an early manifestation. The most obvious explanation of its occur- rence is that it is dependent on absorption of toxins. Such toxic perspiration is recognised in relation to other diseases. The toxins may act directly on sweat-centres, or stimulation of sweat-centres may result from exhaustion of the respiratory centre, with consequent accumulation of COj in the blood. If the accumulation of COg in the blood be admitted as of causal import, I suspect that the ac- cumulation is in large part due to the protective measures usually practised and the consequent defective aeration. This conclusion is forced on one by the phenomenal disappearance of sweating, when hyperaeration is established. 4. Complications These are numerous. They result from—(1) Carriage of tubercle bacilli to other parts {e.g. larynx, intestines). (2) Activity of circulatory toxins {e.g. waxy disease). (3) Activity of other organisms (mixed infection). (4) Interference with functional activity of various organs through pyrexia and other causes. Reference has been already made incidentally to the occurrence of some. It is not easy—if, indeed, it be correct—to draw a line of distinction between symptoms and complications. For the present purpose it will be convenient to review the latter in relation to the several systems. (a) Respiratory.—The nose may be the seat of tuberculous disease. It is not uncommon to find tubercle bacilli in the nasal discharge. Lying in contact with the lining membrane, this may lead to secondary tuberculous afi"ec- tions, which may extend variously, e.g. along Eustachian tube. Frequently enough the nostril is affected directly from the front by means of contagion carried on the finger. In this case the anterior portions, including the septum, are more likely involved. Either tuberculous ulceration or lupus may be present. The larynx is very commonly affected by tuberculosis. This is likely to occur in advanced stages of pulmonary disease, but is frequent at all stages. The larynx should be examined in every case. Short of actual disease