MALARIA 136 Malignant, JSstivo - Autumnxil, or Tropical Malarial Fever.—These names have all been applied to the form of malarial infection about to be described; none of them are quite ap- propriate. If, however, it is borne in mind that malignant malaria means an infection in which there is a liability to malignancy, then this name is sufficiently correct. The term sestiA'O-autumnal is applicable enough to the malignant fevers of Italy and some parts of America where it exhibits a summer-autumn periodicity; but it is misleading when it is remembered that in most tropical countries this form of fever persists throughout the year. Koch has recently called it tropical malarial fever, but inasmuch as it is not confined to tropical countries, this term also is not altogether correct. The ill effects produced on the health of a population, and indirectly on the prosperity of a country, by the benign forms of malaria are lamentable, but they are insignificant in com- parison with the disastrous results of malignant malaria. It is not too much to say that the future progress of our tropical possessions depends on our ability to deal successfully with this form of malaria. Malignant malaria is characterised by the frequency with which definite quotidian or tertian periodicity is lost and replaced by a remittent or subcontinued fever, by the liability to the supervention of pernicious symptoms and cachexia, and by the resistance it sometimes exhibits to the action of quinine. The prodromal symptoms are like those of benign tertian fever; the aching of limbs, and back, and eyes is pronounced, and there may be depression or irritability of temper. The onset of the attack is usually less abrupt, the tempera- ture rises more gradually; the cold stage is slightly marked, or may be altogether absent. In the West African fevers not more than 20 per cent of the cases are ushered in with rigor. In relapses occurring after return to Europe, however, the rigor is usually well marked. The hot stage is always prolonged, lasting eight to twelve hours or longer, during which time headache and pains in the limbs and loins are usually intense. In some cases there may be only a general feeling of malaise. These symptoms differ so much from those of the benign tertian agues of India and elsewhere, that it is often difficult at first to convince new- comers on the west coast of Africa that they really are suffiiring from malarial fever. They usually attribute their illness to the effects of the sun. The attacks last from twenty to thirty hours; sweating is profuse, and brings with it the usual relief. In ordinary cases the fever commences as a true intermittent with a distinct period of intermission, but the apyrexial period is much shorter than in the case of the benign fevers. After two or three attacks of pyrexia, during which the intermissions have become shorter and shorter, it develops into a remittent fever (see Chart III., p. 148); occasion- ally from the first it is remittent. As recovery sets in, the temperature and other symptoms often reassume the intermittent type ; often with appropriate treatment the fever is cut short in the remittent stage. Convalescence is usually rapid, but more prolonged than in the benign fevers; the temperature is frequently sub- normal until health is restored. Although ordinary imcomplicated cases of malignant fever do not differ very markedly from the benign fevers, one important fact must never be lost sight of—it is that an individual infected with the malignant malarial parasite is liable at any time to a pernicious attack. There may be pernicious symptoms at the onset, or they may supervene during the course of an ordinary attack. No case of fever of this character, therefore, should be lightly dealt with, and, as far as the exigencies of the case permit, the patient should be assiduously nursed and treated until convalescence is complete. At stations where there are hospitals every case of malig- nant fever should be admitted, if possible, so as to be under direct medical observation. Sooner or later, in a certain proportion of cases, a patient who has suffered from a series of mild attacks will suddenly develop one of greater intensity, which, more or less, endangers his life. Certain individuals are more prone than others to these gi'ave forms of fever. Alcoholics, syphilitics, epileptics, and neurotic people are prone to what are termed cerebral attacks; alcoholics and those who are the subjects of visceral disease, particularly of the circulatory organs, are liable to syncopal attacks, but very often even young, strong, healthy adults are the subjects of similar pernicious malarial seizures. The practitioner in the Tropics cannot prevent altogether these grave occurrences, but he can lessen their frequency by invaliding confirmed alcoholics and those physically unfit for the climate, and by impress- ing upon all the importance of temperance. He should always be on the lookout for any unusual sign or symptom during an attack of fever; the warning, usually of a nervous character, may be ill-defined and not easily recognised, being nothing more perhaps than something peculiar in the behaviour and de- meanour, an irritability or restlessness, or perhaps an unnatural placidity, more rarely delusions. A life may be saved by the prompt recognition of the significance of these signs. There is another type of case, midway between the simple and pernicious form of malignant malaria, which is not so directly fatal as the pernicious, but which may lead to deterioration of health as well as cachexia. It comprises the bilious remittent, typhoidal re- mittent, and adynamic fevers.