MICROSCOPE, THE 399 condenser, whilst the number of rays of light falling on the object is regulated by means of a diaphragm. The mirror can be tilted to any required angle, and is usually mounted on a movable arm so as, if necessary, to give oblique illumination, which is sometimes advantageous when finer structural details have to be determined. Diaphragms, which are pieces of metal with an aperture, are employed in order to intercept the peripheral rays reflected from the mirror. If no condensor is employed, the diaphragm is situated immediately below the stage, and is then either a circular copper plate pierced with circular openings of different diameters, and is so attached to the under surface of the stage that any one of these openings can be brought directly beneath the aperture in the stage, or there is an iris diaphragm, the aperture of which can be regulated by a small knob or handle projecting from the side of the diaphragm. Some micro- scopes, however, are supplied with movable plug diaphragms which are to be inserted into the aperture of the stage, each diaphragm having an opening of diiferent diameter. When the microscope has a condensor the diaphragm is usually of the iris form, and is fitted beneath the lenses of the condensor. The condensor is constructed of a system of lenses mounted in a tube and placed beneath the stage. The condensor should be capable of being lowered or elevated so that the rays of light proceeding from the mirror may be focussed on the object resting on the stage. This focussing is preferably effected by a rack and pinion; but in the simpler condensors it is performed by means of a simple screw at the side of the condensor. The Abbe condensor is the one in most general use. Accessory Fittings.—A mechanical stage is one which can be moved mechanically. The better microscopes are fitted with such a stage, but otherwise one can be attached to any ordinary microscope. The movements should be effected by rack and pinion adjustment, and in some models the stage can be con- centrically rotated. For the determination of the size of micro- scopic objects a special piece of apparatus, the micrometer, is required. In its simplest form this is an eye-piece micrometer—a glass disc on which there is a graduated scale. A drawing apparatus, or camera lucida, is essentially a prism situated in front of the ocular; and the use of such an apparatus, whether in its simpler or more elaborate form, is of great assistance when a drawing of a microscopic object has to be made. The simple microscope is composed of two plano-convex lenses separated by a diaphragm. The lenses are mounted on a stand which has a stage, a mirror, and rack and pinion focussing adjustment. Most of the microscopes of this form magnify from 10 to 20 diameters, and are chiefly of value as dissecting microscopes. If a microscope is to be purchased it should be obtained from a first-class maker, but need not necessarily be an elaborate instrument. The stand should be a good one and be inclinable; have fine adjustment and coarse adjustment by rack and pinion, a sub-stage condensor with mechanical adjustment, a high- and a low-power objective (i-inch and |^-inch, or III. and VII.), a triple nose-piece, and two oculars (I. and IV.). Such an instrument will suffice for all ordinary clinical and histological work; and a J^inch homogeneous immersion objective, a mechanical stage, and other ac- cessories can be obtained subsequently as the need for them arises. The prices and illustra- tions of the different grades of microscopes of objectives, oculars, and other constituent parts, and also of the supplementary apparatus, will be found in any of the makers' catalogues. The Use of the Microscope.—Work should, as far as possible, be carried on by daylight. The microscope is to be placed near a window facing north, and for choice the mirror should reflect light from a white cloud ; in ordinary work direct sunlight is never used. If artificial illumination is required, an ordinary petroleum lamp with a flat flame, a Welsbach light, or an incandescent electric lamp with a ground- glass shade are most suitable. The microscope should stand on a firm table, and unless objects mounted in fluid are to be observed, the stand should be inclined, so that the head of the observer, who should be seated, is not kept in a strained position. The eye which is not applied to the ocular is to be kept open, in order that the observer's accommodation may be as completely relaxed as possible. An examination should commence with a low- power objective—a |-inch or a No. III. if using, say, a Leitz objective—and a low-power ocular, as, for instance, a No. I. or No. II. The object mounted on a slide and covered with a cover- glass is placed on the stage, and a diaphragm of medium size having been inserted, the object must now be properly illuminated. If no con- densor is used, the plane mirror is to be em- ployed with low-power objectives, the concave mirror being reserved for the ^-inch or other high-power objective, and the axis of the mirror is so adjusted that the greatest amount of light is reflected on to the object. This is then focussed by the coarse and then by the fine adjustment. If a more highly-magnified view of the object be then desired, the microscope tube is slightly raised from the stage and the higher-power objective, e.g. the J-inch, is re- volved on the nose-piece till it is brought into position, when the object is once more focussed. If a condensor be employed, as is always desirable, the light is invariably to be reflected from the plane mirror, except when very low-