NEPHRITIS 545 these neuralgic pains, but as a rule the pain is most intense early in the day, and tends to diminish at night. Neuralgic pains resembling sciatica may supervene, but by far the most common type is that which imitates simple trigeminal neuralgia. In the early stages giddiness may occur quite suddenly. It may be only momentary, and it may not cause more than a very transient vertigo with slight staggering gait. Occasion- ally it is more severe, and may cause the patient to fall to the ground. When these attacks have once occurred they are liable to return at fairly frequent intervals. When any of the above symptoms have led to further inquiries, it is common to find that patients will admit having to get up at night once or twice to micturate, and they may pro- bably realise that they are more frequently disturbed even during the day. It is by no means uncommon for this increased frequency of micturition to cause dread of diabetes. The actual amount of urine that is passed is generally considerably increased, though with the earliest stage of the disease the quantity may be very little more than normal. In extreme cases, how- ever, twice or even three times the normal quan- tity may be passed in the twenty-four hours. The urine is light in colour, transparent, and generally, even on standing, gives only a very scanty, light, cloudy deposit. The specific grav- ity is lower than normal, from 1005 to 1010 or 1012; it will vary with the amount of water passed. Throughout the history of a case of cirrhosis of the kidney the amount of albumin is small, and in the early stages it may be entirely absent for several days at a time. The albuminuria may possibly follow a cyclical course, being found after exercise or after meals, while it is absent in specimens that are passed in the early morning. Occasionally the midday specimen may be free from albumin, while the morning specimen contains a trace. In the scanty cloudy deposit octahedral crystals of oxalates may frequently be met with, and they may be associated with uric acid. The urea passed is often reduced, though relatively large quantities may be eliminated. Renal casts are not numerous, they are mostly small and hyaline, bvit larger casts may sometimes be found, occasionally containing granular debris, or even atrophied renal epithelial cells. Acute inflam- matory exacerbations may occur, but they are less frequent than with chronic diffused nephritis. Changes in the circulatory system are found early. The pulse of cirrhosis of the kidney is fairly resistant, the degree of compression being roughly estimated by the amount of pressure required to arrest pulsations. The sphygmo- graphic tracings are extremely characteristic, although high tension may be met with in connection with some other conditions, as with diabetes, with hysteria, or with atheroma. VOL. VI The apex beat of the heart is displaced out- wards and downwards. In addition there is accentuation of the cardiac sounds. The second sound heard over the aortic valves is especially affected, and reduplication is frequent. Late in the disease some dilatation of the right ventricle may cause further increase in the area of cardiac dulness. Epistaxis may occasionally be an early symptom, but in my experience it is more commonly met with in the later stages. II. when the renal alterations are more fully established, many of the symptoms above enu- merated will be more pronounced, and others may be superadded. Thus the dyspeptic symp- toms are more likely to be associated with nausea and vomiting, and the vomiting may be more frequent in the early morning. Occasionally diarrhoea ensues, and, like the vomiting, it appears to occur spontaneously. As the disease progresses the amount of urine increases, while the specific gravity becomes more persistently low. The pale yellow colour of the urine is extremely characteristic of marked advance of the disease, and it is associated with further diminution in the elimination of urea and phosphates. Before the onset of ursemic con- vulsions the amount of urine may be consider- ably reduced; hence it is important to note any alteration in the daily excretion of urine. Diminution in quantity and the supervention of headache must always give rise to anxiety. Respiratory System.—In advanced cases of renal cirrhosis difficulty of respiration forms a prominent symptom, and it is very frequently attributable to changes affecting the lungs and pleura. These changes can often be indirectly traced to alterations in the circulation, which will account for rapid oedema or for accumula- tions of fluid within the pleural cavity. In addition to these symptoms, however, in renal cirrhosis, and more rarely in chronic nephritis, "urgemic dyspnoea" may occur more suddenly and with greater urgency. Although the symptoms resemble those of spasmodic asthma, both in the suddenness of their onset and in the completeness with which the attack may pass off, yet they do not give way before the same forms of treatment. The variety of ursemic dyspnoea which has most prominently come under my observation is that in which there has been oedema of the lung or fluid in the pleural cavity. The difficulty of breathing commences usually at night, and the patient sits up in bed strug- gling for breath. Sometimes the respirations are accompanied by sibilant rales, which are apparently the result of bronchial spasm. At other times, although the breathing is equally hurried and laborious, it is accompanied by loud puerile respiration. When dyspnoea is asso- ciated with oedema of the lungs, although the attack may commence suddenly and may to a large extent pass off after a few hours of intense