OF—EMPHYSEMA 75 LUNGS, DISEASES with pigment. The lungs do not collapse when the thorax is opened, but often bulge into the opening made. Upon section the lung tissue is found to be bloodless and extremely rarefied, sometimes full of holes visible to the naked eye —occasionally large buUte are found at the apices of the lungs, and more commonly at the base or edges of the lobes. The bullae may be of any size from that of a small pea to a cavity of two or three inches diameter. On microscopic examination it is found that the alveolar spaces are irregular and increased in size, the walls either thickened by fibroid deposit or undergoing fatty degeneration. The partitions between the alveoli are frequently atrophied or destroyed, producing large irregular spaces. Sometimes the smaller bronchi are dilated. The pulmonary arterial vessels are often atheromatous. In the atrophic form the lungs are small and collapse when the chest is opened. The lungs do not necessarily cover the heart. The general appearance on section is of rarefaction, but bullous enlargements are less common than in the former type. (Edema of the bases of the lungs is more common than in the large-lunged emphysema. The whole process is one of atrophy, and is accompanied by a general wast- ing of tissues with other senile changes, such as ossification of the costal cartilages. Secondary Emphysema. — When fibroid or contracted tubercular lesions are present, it is common to find the surroimding areas of lung pale and bulky and presenting the features described in the hypertrophic form of emphy- sema. If the apex or upper part of a lobe is affected, the rest of the lobe may be extremely emphysematous. When there are disseminated fibroid tubercles the whole lung may be white or pale grey in colour, varied by the appearance of grey or caseous tubercular nodules surrounded by pigment. Sometimes large bullae are found at the apex with large pigmented tubercular scars in the underlying pulmonary tissue. Oc- casionally, when the greater part of a lobe is the seat of chronic fibroid tubercular con- solidation, the edge may be fringed with large buUse. Hypertrophic Emphysema.—Physical Signs. —Inspection.—Alteration in the form of the chest, which assumes the so-called barrel shape. Enlargement of the chest in all its diameters. The ribs and clavicles become more horizontal, increasing the suprasternal angle and the angle of the ribs at the episternal notch. Widening of the intercostal spaces. Curvature of the spine, producing convexity of the back and scapular regions. Deficient expansion of the chest. It must be remembered that rigidity of the chest due to ossification of the costal cartilages is a superadded condition often pre- sent especially in the atrophic forms, but not necessarily associated with emphysema. Palpation.—The vocal vibrations are dimin- ished. The cardiac impulse is feeble or absent. Percussion.—The superficial cardiac dulness and the liver dulness are diminished or absent, except in tlie atrophic form, and do not alter with posture as in the healthy subject. The note is usually hyper-resonant. Auscultation. — The respiratory murmur is weakened, especially in the vipper parts of the lungs and at the bases. In many cases the inspiration is of a higher pitch than expiration, but this is to be regarded as an evidence of spasm of the bronchioles, and a condition of broncliial asthma which is frequently associated with emphysema. In advanced cases the ex- piration is unduly prolonged ; but it is extremely difficult to eliminate the voluntary prolongation of expiration which a patient will often exhibit, especially if this prolongation is accompanied by a wheeze, which in the case of the poorer class of case is sometimes produced in order to excite sympathy. Superadded Sounds.—It is a common observa- tion that fine crepitant rales are heard at the apices of the lungs in the supraclavicular regions in cases of emphysema. These are heard on forced inspiration, and are entirely inspiratory. They are of the nature described by Laennec as the " crepitous rale," and often disappear after the second or third deep inspiratory efibrt. They are dry rales, and in all probability due to the sudden opening up of unexpanded air vesicles. Bronchitis and oedema of lungs is so common an accompaniment that it is extremely common to find rhonchus or sibilus and fine crepitations at the bases. The Heart Sounds. — These are usually muffled and indistinct. In cases of long dura- tion, and especially in young subjects, the first sound at the ensiform cartilage or in the epi- gastrium is unduly prolonged and accentuated, and is an evidence of hypertrophy of the right ventricle. In late stages of emphysema this accentuation is not marked, and the second pulmonary sound may be accentuated owing to dilatation of the right heart. A systolic and, probably, exocardiac murmur is sometimes heard in the situation of the ensiform cartilage in cases where the right ventricle is increased in size, and this murmur is very localised in its area. In advanced cases of emphysema, where the right side of the heart is dilated, the symptoms and physical signs of tricuspid in- competence may occur—epigastric pulsation, a systolic murmur at the end of the sternum, a venus pulse in the jugulars, and some cyanosis, with other symptoms of systemic engorgement. Atrophic Emphysema.—Physical Signs.—The subjects of this form of the disease are usually in advanced life, and the lungs only share in the general wasting and atrophy. Physical signs are not so marked as in the hypertrophic form. There is more likely to be rigidity of