NAILS, AFFECTIONS OF THE 518 perionychia. The rash may affect the neigh- bourhood of the nails, thus leading to disturb- ances in their nutrition; or they may become affected by the extension of a tertiary palmar syphilide. When ulceration with secretion of pus occurs it is more serious, as the nail may be destroyed, or at any rate shed, being slowly replaced by one of poor quality. In such case there is usually swelling of the end of the affected toe or finger. Congenital Syphilis.—Onychiaand perionychia occurring in infants and children is suspicious of syphilis. One or more nails may be involved or shed, and the condition arise apart from any skin rash. In the congenital bullous syphilide both finger- and toe-nails may become uneven, discoloured, with crusts about the roots, and a red areola beyond. X. Parasitic Diseases (exclusive of the Schizomycetes).— 1. Fungi. a. Onychomycosis (0. trichophytina-Tinea unguis vel unguium).— Ringworm of the nail may be associated with the disease in other parts of the body, or the nails only be involved. One or more of these, either of the fingers or toes, may be affected. The condition is essentially a chronic one, and may date back several or many years, twenty or more. The nails themselves are brittle, dis- coloured, of a dirty, brownish hue, rough, furrowed, and striated, with flaky surface. I have found it requires much patience in some cases to find the fungus in the scrapings. The back of the suspected nail should be scraped to a good depth with the sharp edge of a slide or with a knife, and the debris examined (with a high power) after prolonged soaking in liq. potassse B.P. (about 5 per cent), or, better still, in a 40 per cent solution, which more rapidly clarifies the preparation. If no fungus be found at first, more liq. potassfe should be added, and the slide examined several times at intervals, when patience will be rewarded by the discovery of dichotomously branching and shortly seg- mented mycelial filaments, or chain formations may occur here and there or predominate. In my experience the fungus is large spored, but whether of the ecto- or endothrix variety cannot be definitely stated from the microscopical ex- amination alone. A ctdtivation would be neces- sary to settle the point, but this has failed in two or three of the several cases I have examined. In one case, which was associated with tinea circinata of the back of the hand and phalanges, I found the megalosporon chain-like mycelium in a stump removed from among the hairs from one of the affected fingers. At the proximal end of the stump the fungus was outside (ecfo- thrix), but higher up it was distinctly inside (endothrix). The latter appears to be the usual fungus of tinea unguium. According to Ehlers of Copenhagen, who first called attention to its fungus origin, an affection of the nails is common in Iceland {Jcartnogl; from ^ar< = card for combing out wool, and ndgl = nail). It is really a tinea unguium contracted from sheep. One or two out of every ten peasants suffer from the complaint. All the finger-nails may be affected. Tinea unguium may also be found associated with tinea cruris (Eczema marginatum) of eastern (Dhobie itch) and tropical or sub-tropical origin. It is stated that in tinea imbricata the nails and hair are always spared. y8. Favus (Onychomycosis favosa).—The favus fungus may also attack the nails as well as the scalp and glabrous skin. It is usually con- tracted by auto-inoculation from other parts of the body ; this is not to be wondered at when one considers that favus of the scalp may last for years. I have never seen the nails affected in London, where favus itself is rare, but it may become more common by importation through Jewish immigrants from Poland and elsewhere. The nails are thickened, the surface irregular, and in some cases a yellowish lint is seen; or the surface may be fairly smooth or somewhat scaly. The nail itself is separated from its bed by a thick layer of friable substance ; or there may be a heaped-up appearance. One or more nails may be affected. Microscopically the following are found : mycelial filaments varying in size, more or less ramified and segmented, with spores arranged in chains and in clumps. In a word, there is polymorphism of the fungous elements;, a point of importance in the differ- ential diagnosis between onychomycosis trichophy- tina and 0. favosa, and in favour of the latter. (For further pathological details see Unna and Heller). 2. Animal.—The only condition which need detain us under this head is the itch (scabies), and, indeed, that severe form of it known as the Nonvegian itch. (See also article " Scabies.") The nail-changes in this rare condition are due to its chronicity, and results from the pustular lesions occurring about the nails, leading to an accumulation of crusts under the free edge, etc. XI. Ingrowing Toe-Nail (Unguis incarnatus —Onyxis laterale).—This affection might per- haps be more correctly called an overgrowth of the soft parts surroimding the nail. It is a well-known condition, occurring with various degrees of severity, and usually attributed to the pressure of badly-fitting foot-gear. If this were the sole cause, however, it ought to be much more common, seeing how fashionable are the pointed-toe boots and shoes. Dionis has observed the condition in bare-footed friars, so that other factors play a part. One factor is certainly cutting off the angles of the nail too square, the sharp end left leading to irritation and, no doubt, to secondary microbial infection also.