139 MALARIA ively met with in this form of infection. Crescent bodies are not usually seen in peri- pheral blood until about a week after the onset of the fever; they remain in the blood for two, three, or more weeks, attain a maximum number and then diminish, and finally disappear. These bodies undergo no changes and give rise to no symptoms in the human body. The adult forms are not influenced by quinine; it is probable, however, that the immature forms are acted upon by this drug, and in this way their appearance in the circulation may be prevented. Relapses Malarial fever is prone to recur months, or even years, after the individual has left a malarious country, and this tendency to relapse probably persists for a longer time in the benign than in the malignant fevers. The direct cause of relapse is due to the latent phase of the malarial parasite becoming active. The form that the parasite assumes during its period of latency is not known; it may be that it passes into an encysted stage and remains dormant in some internal organ, such as the spleen, or in the bone-marrow. It may be, on the other hand, that the parasite continues to reproduce itself in the usual asexual way, but not in numbers sufficient to give rise to clinical manifestations. A. Plehn recently has stated that there are certain small granules either attached to, or in the substance of, the red corpuscles which dis- appear during attacks of malarial fever and reappear during the periods of freedom from acute manifestations with a steady increase in number. The granules stain with Ehrlich's mixture and with methylene blue. Plehn calls these bodies Karyo-chromatophilic granules, and believes them to be the latent form of the parasite. This is an interesting observation, but it is not clear whether these bodies are not really degenerations in the red cells which often occur in anaemias, and which were described by Ehrlich so long ago as 1879. The causes which predispose to, and the clinical manifestations of relapses, differ in no marked respect from those of primary infections. Sequels Malarial Cachexia.—An attack of malaria, if properly treated, generally results in a rapid and complete cure; but if attacks recur con- stantly or are imperfectly treated, or if the surrounding conditions are unfavourable—for example, through bad food-supply or improper housing, and especially if associated with harass- ing duties in a trying climate—then a train of symptoms sets in which shows that the malarial parasite is gaining the upper hand. On the other hand, prolonged exposure to malarial influence under otherwise favourable conditions may also cause cachexia. More rarely cachexia follows after only one severe attack of malaria, especially if the health has been previously undermined by syphilis, for example, or some other chronic disease. The leading symptoms are a dirty greyish- yellow colour of both skin and sclerotics, pro- nounced anaemia, enlargement of spleen, and, in early cases, enlargement of the liver. Cachexia usually follows attacks of the malignant type of infection, but it is possible for the benign tertian, or even the quartan, to produce this condition. Children are especially prone to become cachectic when residing in intensely malarious districts ; this is no doubt due to the fact that they so frequently suffer from masked or irregular attacks of fever which are not properly treated, their true nature not being recognised. A typical case forms a striking clinical picture—the child always looks ansemic and sallow, and the skin feels harsh and parch- ment-like. The aspect is sad and dejected ; the eyes sunken and the voice weak and peevish; the body is ill-developed, thin and wasted; growth is often stunted. Gastro-intestinal catarrh, with diarrhoea, is the rule ; the abdomen is protuberant, with the spleen reaching, per- haps, to the iliac crest. Vomiting and pyrexia occur from time to time, and death, from advancing cachexia, or, more often, from some intercurrent disease, is very frequent. In the adult the symptoms are not, as a rule, so pro- nounced ; the patient has the same peculiar anaemic and sallow look, is short of breath on exertion, and very likely has oedema of the lower extremities. There may be hsemic cardiac murmurs, systolic in character. Slight pyrexia may occur late in the day; intense headache and periodic neuralgias are common, as well as recurring attacks of pain in the region of the spleen. Haemorrhages are prone to occur either in the form of epistaxis, haematemesis, or melaena; there may be subcutaneous haemor- rhages or bleeding from the gums. The blood may, or may not, contain malarial parasites. If an attack of malignant fever has recently occurred, crescent bodies may be found. The blood is watery and its character is that of a profound secondary anaemia; there is a marked oligocythaemia, the red cells falling perhaps to 1^ millions per c.mm., and the haemoglobin of the red corpuscles is diminished. Nucleated red cells are frequently met with. The leuco- cytes may be diminished in number, more especially the polymorphonuclear variety. The spleen is generally enormously enlarged, giving rise to the so-called ague cake. At first it is soft and rounded, but afterwards becomes hard, with a sharp, well-defined margin. It is not generally tender. The large spleen of malarial cachexia is liable to rupture, and even a slight blow may in this way prove fatal. The patient must be warned of this danger. This untoward accident is most liable to happen during a febrile