MEDICINE, FORENSIC 250 violence contribute to or accelerate death 1 In such cases the law lays stress upon any evidence of malice or intent to injure. Secondary Causes of Death.—These include inflammatory processes, meningitis, pneumonia, peritonitis, septicaemia, pyaemia, erysipelas, tetanus, delirium tremens, exhaustion, surgical operations, etc. According to English law a man is answerable for the death of any person he has injured, provided death takes place within a year and one day, and is attributable directly or indirectly to the violence. Some secondary causes of death are practi- cally unavoidable, e.g. peritonitis in wounds of the intestines; others are avoidable, or the chances of their occurring are remote, e.g. tetanus. Delirium tremens is the result of a man's previous intemperate habits ; an operation may not be performed in as favourable surround- ings, or so skilfully, as modern advances in surgery demand; hut with reference to all these considerations, the law maintains a view that a person who inflicts violence on another must abide by all the consequences of his act. Only where it can be proved that the secondary cause of death was due to the wilful disregard of ordinary care on the part of a patient after due warning of the consequences is an accused person relieved of responsibility. With refer- ence to the responsibility of medical men for the death of a patient, as the result of an operation, evidence in such a case must prove not mere want of skill, nor even that death was due to a mistake on the part of a medical man, but that there was gross carelessness or ignorance and disregard of ordinary recognised rules of practice. The Question of Accident, Suicide, or Murder. —In all forms of violent death a decision on this question is of primary importance, since it at once determines the subsequent procedure. The chief points which will help to decide the question in regard to wounds are the situation, direction, nature, and extent of the wound, together with a consideration of the circum- stances of the case, such as the position of the body or weapon, marks of blood upon clothes and surrounding objects, and finally, the presence or absence of signs of a struggle. With reference to the solution of this question, much will depend upon the common-sense and acumen of the ex- aminer in each particular case ; bvit the following general considerations must be kept in mind. Situation of the Wound.—Accidental wounds Tnay be situated practically anywhere, and the circumstances will generally afford sufficiently clear evidence of their accidental nature. The suicidal wound is usually situated in the front of the body, in an easily accessible and vital position. Thus the head, throat, and chest are favourite situations; on the other hand, extra- ordinary and most unlikely parts are sometimes chosen by suicides, especially by the insane. Homicidal injuries may be in any part of the body. Direction of the Wound.—This is a most im- poi-tant point to decide, and in penetrating wounds the direction should be determined by a dissection of the surrounding parts rather than by passing probes into the wound. All descrip- tions as to size and direction must refer to well-recognised anatomical landmarks. Some directions of wounds are consistent with suicide by a right- or by a left-handed person, as the case may be; others are unusual in suicide and hence presumptive of murder; while wounds having a certain direction we may decide at once could only be produced by the hand of another person. In cut throat, a wound running from immedi- ately below the angle of the jaw upon the left side downwards and forwards across the middle line of the neck at the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage is typical of suicide, whereas a wound running from below upwards and across the neck is unusual in suicide and presumptive of homicide. Suicidal stabs of the chest usually run from above downwards and inwards, and a direction from below upwards and inwards should excite suspicion. Nature and Extent of Wounds.—The nature and extent of some injuries are quite irreconcil- able with accident or suicide, and we have no difficulty in attributing them to violence inflicted by another. It is true that suicides may inflict extensive injuries upon themselves by precipita- tion from a height; but even where the circum- stances render this possible, the injuries in their nature and extent may be inconsistent with such a mode of production. In considering the nature and extent of injuries we must always have in view their relative power to cause death rapidly, or to produce unconsciousness and inability to per- form movements, since, while a suicide may cause a large number of severe wounds upon himself, it is highly improbable that he could produce two or more wounds, each of which would cause rapid unconsciousness or prove immediately fatal. It cannot, however, be too strongly insisted upon that suicides, and especially insane people, have caused upon themselves injuries which, from their extent, situation, and nature, are almost beyond credibility; and hence, even in the case of injuries whicli appear to be only capable of production by a second party, caution should be exercised in expressing a definite opinion. With regard to the circumstantial evidence, viz., the position of the body, and of a weapon, marks of blood and traces of a struggle, the evidence of a medical man will only be of real value if he has an opportunity of observing the facts for himself before the body or the locus is in any way interfered with. The evidence of a