153 MALINGERING the world, by assuming an erect and vigorous posture, and by singing in stentorian tones the " Te Deum ! " Essex, the favourite of Elizabeth, feigned illness to procure the queen's compassion. Gustavus Adolphus IV. of Sweden simulated a wound of the leg. We are told by Rodericus a Castre that in 1588 Portuguese soldiers and sailors " made themselves ill, and caused themselves to be bled," to avoid service against the English. Fodere, referring to the time when, in France, the conscription pressed heavily on the youth of the country, says that "the art of feigning disease was brought to such perfection as to render it as difficult to detect a feigned as to cure a real disease." And in the Diaries of a Lady of Quality we are told that Queen Caroline, when a girl of sixteen, being prevented by her mother, the Duchess of Brunswick, from attend- ing balls, feigned pregnancy and created a court scandal, caused the accoucheur to be summoned, and, having whitened her face and made a great display of apparent suffering, finally bounded from her bed and exclaimed to her mother, " Will you keep me another time from a ball 1" Motive.—Motive of some kind is always present in cases of pure malingering; and often too in the mimicries of the hysterical and neurasthenic, motive also comes into play. When we have neurotic subjects to deal with we must endeavour to separate the voluntary from the involuntary manifestations. The insane, by the way, can malinger, unless too far gone in dementia; and the writer has seen hallucinations clearly assumed by a highly educated prisoner who was being examined in consultation with a view to his liberation, as a remedial measure for genuine threatening mental break-down; the patient evidently wished to assist the writer in demonstrating the desirability of release. His hallucinations were discounted in the prognosis. His speedy release, recommended owing to his actual state, was followed by mental recuperation. The chief motives occur as follows :— {a) Prisoners or Persons awaiting Trial.—In the case of prisoners much can be gained by the successful feigning of disease. Diets are improved; comforts and the ease of hospital secured; change of air may be obtained by removal to an infirmary station. Release may follow the establishment of a "mental weakness." Punishments may be avoided where the plea of irresponsibility is successfully suggested. Many criminals prefer the indulgence enjoyed in a lunatic asylum to the discipline of the gaol. And if once a criminal can establish a record of "insanity," or even of "epilepsy," he knows how valuable such a stigma may be to him, if his future career should happen to bring him into the dock on a charge of murder. In the management of prisoners greater stress should be laid upon the prevention of unde- served "insane histories" being acquired by certain very wide-awake and healthy criminals. The death penalty is convertible into imprison- ment if a family history of insanity is procurable. Irresponsibility upon mental grounds forms a very welcome cloak for persons in good posi- tion charged with indecent conduct, and here the motive for " insane" malingering may be immense. Nor must it be forgotten that any advancing and " incurable " disease can in these days of exaggerated humanitarianism obtain a prisoner his release. And it is a matter of common official knowledge that " incurable" cases which have been released sometimes return very rapidly with a new sentence for a new crime, and in excellent health, only to fall into an " incurable" state once more on passing through the prison gates ! (6) Financial Gain.—Where monetary gain can follow malingering, the motive is naturally very strong. Hence we see much exaggeration and some very clear absolute malingering attempted by claimants in various kinds of insurance cases for " accidents." Probably the most distinct malingering is met with in claims after a railway accident. Many very dishonest claims and grossly exaggerated symptoms are presented after slight street accidents; and amongst workmen claiming against employers we see a great tendency to exaggeration and protraction of disablement, sometimes truly due to " traumatic neurasthenia," but very often due to the newly acquired dislike for labour induced by the enforced idleness necessitated by a surgical injury. (c) Pensions and Benefits from Clubs and Charitable Societies. — The unduly early ac- quisition of a Government pension, or the desire to unfairly enjoy other benefits, often acts as a motive for simulation or exaggeration. {d) Soldiers and Sailors.—In the army and navy malingering used to be of very common occurrence. Self-mutilation even was often practised in order to avoid active service. Rheumatism, madness, and the like were simu- lated in order thereby to evade discipline and duties. An improved regard for the well-being of the men has lessened these occurrences. Still malingering occurs in the services, and must be borne in mind. (e) Beggars and Tramps.—Alms and sympathy are sought by these persons by a display of loathsome sores, wounds, wasted limbs, and the like, which are often self-induced. The "fits" of such persons demand the closest scrutiny before being accepted as genuine. Especially should we view with the greatest suspicion " fits " which occur at moments when sympathy and practical benefit are likely to accrue to the sufferers. Thus, too, when a prisoner in the dock has a "fit" we should remember how valuable, as a bid for sympathy, such a mani- festation may be. (/) Imitation is almost involuntarily productive