EDITOEIAL NOTE This, the sixth, volume of the Encyclopedia and Dictionary of Medicine and Surgery, contains more subject headings (1228) than any previous volume, excepting always the second (which dealt with the rubrics of C). This is to be accounted for by the fact that the large letter M is included, as well as parts of L and N. The outstanding article is that on Diseases of the Lungs, which extends from page 19 to page 88; it is subdivided into parts dealing with Tuberculosis, Pulmonary Fibrosis, Pneumonokoniosis, Gangrene, Emphysema, Vascular Disorders, Syphilis, Abscess, and Parasitic Affections. Another long article is that on Diseases of the Mammary Gland. There are forty-eight articles of more than 1000 words in length. These range in size from the sixty-nine-page article on the Inmgs to the one-page contribution on Malignant Pustule. Other noteworthy papers which are found in this group are those on the Lumbar Region, on Lunacy, on Lupus Erythematosus, on the Lymphatic System, on Malaria, on Malingering, on Maternal Impressions, on Measles, on the Mediastinum, on Forensic Aledicine, on the History of Medicine, on the Memory in Health and Disease, on the Aleninges and their Diseases (including Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis), on the Menopause, on the Disorders of Menstruation, on Mental Deficiency, on the Mesentery, on Meteorology, on Micro-Organisms, on the Microscope, on Milh, on Mineral Waters, on Morphinomania and Allied Drug Habits, on Injuries and Diseases of the Mouth and Jaws, on Mumps, on Diseases of the Muscles, on Mycetoma, on Myiasis, on the Affections of the Nails, on the Region of the Neck, and on Nephritis. New articles have been included dealing with the Laiv as to the Medical Practitioner (p. 286), with Mercury (p. 363), and with the Metric System; and I have endeavoured to give an up-to-date account of the Midivives Act of 1902, and of the effects which its working is having upon medical practice in England and upon the training of midwives in Great Britain and Ireland. Of articles of less than 1000 words but of at least ten lines in length, there are eighty-two. These include paragraphs dealing with Lupinosis, Lycopodium, Lymphadenoma, Lymphatism, Lymphodermia Perniciosa, Mabey's Malady, Macrocheilia, Magnesium, Magnesium-Perhydrol, Malformation, Malignant Disease, Malt, Mandragora, Manganesium, Mania, Manna, Marasmus, Marriage, Marrow, Marsupialisation, Massage, Mast Cells, Mastoid, Masturbation, Maticce Folia, Meat, Meckel's Diverticulum, Melancholia, Membrana, Membrane, Mendel's Law, Meningocele, Menorrhagia, Menthol, Methane, Methylene Blue, Metritis, Microcephalus, Micrococcus, Micromegaly, Microphthalmos, Midwifery, Migraine, Migration, Milk Laboratories, Millon's Reagent, Mithridatism, Mitosis, Molimen, Molybdenum, Morphoea, Morvan's Disease, Moschus, Mountain Sickness, Mucin, Mucous Membranes, Murphy's Button, Traumatic Affections of Muscles, Mustard, Myelitis, Myelocyte, Myrrh, Ncbvus, and Naphthaline. Most of these articles are new.