534 NEPHRITIS of the cones. The cones are of a darker red colour, and contrast with the pale cortex. Microscopic examination shows that the changes are not uniformly distributed, but affect certain areas, while intervening tracts of tissue appear to be normal. All the structures of the kidney may, however, be involved ; in the con- voluted tubes the epithelium is generally swollen, cloudy, and less transparent than usual; the degree of swelling may be sufficient almost to occlude the tubule, and also to interfere with the freedom of circulation. The combined result of distension of the tubes and of the compression of the blood-vessels is seen in the white or grey colour of the cortex. Sometimes, however, the tubules are found with the epithelium desqua- mated or proliferating ; or they may be entirely denuded of epithelium. Occasionally the renal epithelium is replaced by thin, flattened cells, the lumen of the tube being much increased in diameter. The extent to which the interstitial tissue is affected will also vary considerably. It is generally considered that there is cellular infiltration between the tubiiles, which leads to the formation of fibrous connective tissue and subsequent contraction. This development of interstitial tissue may ultimately produce irregu- larities of the surface and partial adhesion of the capsule. The changes affecting the Malpighian tufts are similar to those of acute nephritis. As the result of subsequent changes, however, the glomeruli appear more or less atrophied, while the capsule of Bowman is thickened, and its epithelial lining has undergone degeneration. Frequently the Malpighian tuft is infiltrated with leucocytes, and the surrounding tissue also presents an excess of nuclei. Greenfield has described three changes connected with the capsule : (1) Pericapsulitis, or cellular infiltra- tion, and tissue formation occurring chiefly out- side ; (2) hyaline thickening of the capsule itself; (3) endo-capsulitis, or the formation of concentric laminae of cells and tissue inside the capsule, between it and the glomerular tiift. In chronic cases these concentric laminae are due to a new formation between the capsule and the tuft, and the capillaries meanwhile undergo hyaline thickening. The capsule, in advanced cases, is striated and concentrically thickened, and blends with the sclerosed glomerular tuft. These changes are not invariably present; they are most common in chronic nephritis originating in scarlatinal nephritis. The branches of small arteries within the kidney are invariably found to be considerably thickened, the hypertrophy affecting the muscular coat. Some thickening, however, of the fibrous wall of the vessel must also be recognised. The vessels may be engorged, and some of the tubes may often be filled with blood, while in other parts they may contain casts. The increase in the size of the kidney is due to inflammatory deposits in the parenchyma and interstitial tissues. If, however, the over- growth of interstitial elements is associated with marked atrophy of the parenchyma, the kidney may not appear to have undergone much altera- tion in size. On the other hand, if the new connective tissue undergoes contraction, the size, weight, and appearance of the kidney will differ greatly from the appearances above described. The kidney, however, remains more pale and mottled than in the normal condition, and, though the surface may become uneven and granular, the colour alone indicates that the case is one of contracted white kidney, instead of being one of small red granular or cirrhosed kidney. When the kidney is thus diminished in size the chief change affects the cortex, which becomes narrower, and on microscopic examination wide tracts of fibrous tissue, almost homogeneous in appearance, may be found lying either immedi- ately below the capsule or in the course of the interlobular arteries. In this tissue, atrophied tubes, Malpighian bodies, and blood-vessels may be found, and small cysts often result from blocking of the tubes. From the above it will be seen that although the macroscopic appearances of the kidney are so dissimilar, yet the microscopic changes are those which might be anticipated as the result of a chronic process; in fact, the difference in appearance depends largely upon the length of time that has elapsed between the commence- ment of the disease and its termination. The parenchymatous changes may be more apparent in the earlier stages of the large white kidney, while the interstitial changes predominate in the later conditions, but all the tissues are simultaneously affected, and the size of the kidney seems to depend upon the degree of contraction and atrophy that has succeeded the inflammatory process. The tendency of chronic nephritis is towards atrophy and contraction, and most observers consider that when the kidney is small, pale, with a narrow cortex and granular surface, there has been an earlier stage in which it was enlarged, white, and with a thickened cortex. Renal Cirrhosis Syn. — Chronic interstitial nephritis, red granular kidney, chronic gouty nephritis. In advanced forms of renal cirrhosis the kid- neys are very much diminished in size, but both are rarely affected to the same extent. The combined weight may be even less than that of a single normal kidney. Corresponding with the diminution in size an increase in the amount of perirenal fat is usually to be noticed. In the early stages of the disease, however, there may be very little alteration in the size or colour of the kidneys, and the most prominent character- istic may be increase in the thickness of the capsule and the greater difficulty of its detach-