MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 204 removed; only in the event of the glands being diseased is it necessaiy to clear out the posterior triangle of the neck. Halstead, however, re- FlG. 23.—Section of the fatty tissue of the axilla immediately adjacent to a lymphatic gland. In the lower part of the figure is a lymphatic trunk filled with cancer cells; in the left upper quadrant are smaller lymphatics also cancerous. commends the removal of tlie supraclavicular glands in all cases. Lastly, the clavicular fibres of the pectoralis major being retracted upwards, while the pectoralis minor is retracted downwards, the surgeon removes the costo-coracoid membrane along with the fat and glands beneath and behind the clavicle, and around the first part of the axillary vessels and the third part of the subclaA'ian vein. If the operation be performed under an antiseptic technique, that is to say, if anti- septic swabs have been used, and especially if the wound has been washed out with an antiseptic lotion, it will generally be found necessary to introduce a drain through the posterior flap for forty-eight hours to carry away the copious blood-stained exudate. By widely dissecting up large skin flaps in the manner described, combined with some extra undermining at one or two places, it is generally possible to bring- together the edges of the skin so as to close the whole or almost the whole of the wound. When this is not possible, the raw surface can sometimes be covered by making an additional curved incision at right angles to the lower lip of the wound, and sliding a flap inwards from the lateral aspect of the thorax ; or the raw surface may be Thiersch- grafted, either at the time of operation or after the surface has become covered with granu- lations. For sutures silkworm-gut is preferable to silk, and if no drainage-tube be employed the suturing should be interrupted rather than con- tinuous. Over the deep antiseptic or aseptic gauze dressing is placed a large quantity of sublimated wool, an additional pad being arranged behind where the greater part of the exudate finds its way. The writer has with gratifying results followed the plan advocated by the late Mr. Edward Cotterell and approved of by Cheyne, viz., of applying the dressing with the arm abducted almost to a right angle with the chest. The limb may be maintained in this position simply by the bandage, provided it is firmly applied, and provided also that a specially large pad of wool is placed between the arm and the chest. The forearm is supported in the prone position upon a pillow to which it is fixed by a couple of slip knots. This position of the limb has the great advantage of enabling the patient to freely abduct the arm as soon as she is allowed the use of it; moreover, the patient does not complain of the feeling of tightness and respiratory oppression which is almost invariably ex- perienced when the arm is bandaged to the chest. The stitches as a rule should not be re- moved before the tenth day. The vessels, as far as possible, should be clamped before division, forceps should be ap- plied at once to all the more important bleeding Fig. 24.—Vertical section of skin and sulicutaneous tissue covering the mamma; in the corium of the former is a small shot-like dissemi- nated nodule of cancer. points, and all bleeding should be carefully arrested before the wound is sutured. Veins opening into the axillary vein should be divided at a little distance from the main trunk, so that a pedicle may be left sufficient to prevent the