348 MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS some life, and has no nonsense about her— seems to suffer little and makes no complaint; whilst the pampered invalid, thin, anjemic, and neurotic, writhes in agony. And yet the real amount of pain may be the same in both women ; but the discomfort of the one is the anguish of the other. If the pain of menstrua- tion be severe enough to interfere with the work of a poor woman, or the pleasure of a rich woman, it may be called " dysmenorrhcea." The character of the pain varies greatly. It may be only a dull backache, or an unpleasant sense of fulness in the pelvis. It may be sharp and lancinating, or of a heavy throbbing character, or griping, colicky, labour-like. It may be so severe that the patient rolls about the bed in torture. The pain is usually felt in the pelvis, just above the pubes, in the ovarian regions, and in the sacral region. In some cases it affects the loins and groins and shoots down the thighs. It may begin a few days before the flow and be relieved by its onset; or it may commence with the flow and last either the first day or two, or the whole period. Some patients com- plain of constant pelvic pain during the inter- menstrual interval, with a marked aggravation at each period. It may date from the onset of puberty and last until the first pregnancy (in some cases it persists until the menopause); or it may not appear till some time after puberty. In other cases it dates from an attack of pelvic inflammation, due to gonorrhoeal infection or sepsis after parturition. It is commoner amongst single than married women, and amongst the sterile than the fer- tile. It must not be thought, however, that dysmenorrhcea either causes or is caused by sterility : both are the result of some primary pelvic lesion, such as stenosis of the cervix, endometritis, or salpingitis. The Cause of the Pain.—Let us now briefly analyse the pain of dysmenorrhcea and consider the mechanism of its production. We may dis- tinguish three main factors—(I) congestion ; (2) spasm ; (3) neuralgia. 1. Congestion.—If the blood-pressure in an inflamed, hypersensitive, and resistant tissue be increased, pain is produced. A very slight increase of the blood-supply to a whitlow makes all the difference between comfort and misery. An inflamed tissue is very sensitive to altera- tions of tension; an attempt to stretch it causes agony, as is shown in the condition of " chordee." Now, in chronic metritis and endometritis, the walls of the uterus become thickened, hard, and inelastic. AVhen the menstrual engorge- ment takes place they cannot distend and accommodate the extra quantity of blood, and hence increased tissue tension results. This tension is interpreted by the hypersensitive uterine nerves—often themselves chronically inflamed—as pain. There is some reason to believe that the ovaries and Fallopian tubes become engorged with blood some days before the onset of menstruation. If they be in an inflamed condition, and boimd down by adhesions, their tissues cannot expand to accommodate the increased blood-supply, and tension and pain result. In such cases the pain is premenstrual because the engorgement is premenstrual. The pain of congestion is dull, heavy, bearing-down, and throbbing in character. It is felt deep in the pelvis and in the sacral region. 2. Spasm.—The uterus is a mass of non- striped muscular fibres woven around a core of mucous membrane. These fibres are in a state of rhythmical activity, alternately con- tracting and relaxing. These rhythmical contractions are very evident in the pregnant uterus: they constitute one of the most reliable signs of pregnancy; and they are still more obvious in the pains of labour. Similar but much feebler waves of contraction pass over the non-pregnant uterus. During men- struation they become more marked. Under certain morbid conditions these contractions become irregular, excessive, and painful. " Spasmodic dysmenorrhcea" is colic of the uterus. It is frequently associated with hyper- EEsthesia of the endometrium, particularly of the region of the internal os; and it is easily excited by the pressure in the cavity of the uterus of foreign bodies, such as pieces of exfoliated mucous membrane and blood clots. In some of the cases of the extra-uterine dysmenorrhcea, it is probable that the colicky pains which precede each period are due to violent contractions of the muscular coats of the distended Fallopian tubes. The pain of spasm is twisting, griping, colicky, or labour-like in character. It comes and goes rhythmically, and is generally complained of just above the pubes. 3. Neuralgia.—Both the uterus and the ovary may be the seat of neuralgia, especially in ansemic, neurotic women. In some cases it seems to be due to gout and rheumatism. There may be a hypersesthetic condition of the endometrium, but usually the uterus is otherwise normal. In some cases of ovarian neuralgia the ovaries may be prolapsed, en- larged, and tender; but they are rarely grossly diseased. The pain of neuralgia is burning, shooting, and lancinating, and is characterised by its wide distribution. It is felt not only in the pelvis and back, but also in the breasts, groins, and thighs. The Varieties of Dysmenorrhcea.—Much confusion has arisen from the perplexing system of classification adopted in the text-books. Thus the following are described as distinct