METEOROLOGY 372 itself; and (2) that received from the sun. The latter, being in the form of radiant heat, does not raise the temperature of space nor that of the atmosphere, especially in its higher and rarer strata, to any sensible degree, until by impinging on the surface of the earth the rays are converted into dark heat, which is absorbed, radiated, or conducted by matter in proportion to its conductivity, and, as regards air, its density. Vapour, even in the perfectly gaseous form, detracts from the diathermancy of the air, as does smoke, though its presence be scarcely perceptible to the eye. It is thus that some fruits fail to mature in cities, though they ripen well in the country, even where the temperature is lower. The effects of the unimpeded solar rays, warming the bodies on which they fall without sensibly raising the temperature of the inter- vening air, is well seen at the health resorts of the Engadine, where invalids bask in the sun- shine, reclining on couches, sheltered from the wind, and often dropping their furs or cloaks when the shade thermometer indicates tempera- tures below zero. The attempts made to secure, without the cold, the fullest benefits justly ascribed to the action of the solar rays on the unclothed body, in the so-called sun bath, though they fail to overcome the vis inertice of habit, are in the highest degree reasonable; and it is much to be wished that custom and fashion would sanction a style of dress—for which Greek and Roman art would furnish abundance of models—that while fulfilling the reasonable demands of simple decency, should permit the free access not only of air, but, during such time as the sun's rays have much power, of light to the surface of the body. The rosy or ruddy complexion of the healthy resident or sojourner in the country, the result of an active cutaneous circulation, and, unlike the browning that often accompanies it, owing- nothing to the deposit of pigment, is admired and envied by the pallid denizen of the city ; but if it be an indication of health and vigour, why should not the limbs and chest share it with the face and hands 1 The pallor bred in ill-lighted dwellings is not a merely superficial condition ; not only are such houses haunted with microbes, and are hot-beds of infectious and infective diseases, but there is no doubt that the want of air and light conduces to and intensifies disorders of nutrition, as rickets, which is especially an urban disease, and in Australia and South Africa is well-nigh unknown. Thermometry The thermometers required for the observa- tion of temperature under its different aspects are (1) the shade maximum, (2) shade minimum, (3) solar radiation, and (4) terrestrial radiation. They should all be self-registering, and it is well to have the bulbs carried beyond the frames, not, as in the ordinary instruments, enclosed in metal grids for protection. Shade thermometers are best mounted in a hut of stout boards with a ridge roof, and louvred sides open below for three or four feet from the ground, so as to permit of the free movement of air and to avoid the accumulation of heat. The box should be at least four or six feet square, with a door on the side least exposed to the sun. It should be put up where it will be open to the free movement of the air, but sheltered from the direct rays of the sun and from radiation from a wall. A good position is ten or twenty feet from the north side of a house. The solar radiation thermometer is designed to absorb and accumulate the radiant heat of the sun with the minimum of waste. Its bulb is blackened, and it is enclosed in a glass tube or cylinder exhausted of its air. It should be fixed to a post about four feet from the ground, where it will be fully exposed to the sun all day. The phenomena of terrestrial radiation are still imperfectly understood, but from time im- memorial the cold produced by radiation and evaporation has been employed in the neigh- bourhood of Calcutta for making ice; an open plot of ground being excavated to a depth of two feet, and filled to about six inches from the surface with loosely laid dry rice straw, which, a powerful radiator, serves also to inter- cept the heat given off from the eai'th. On this are spread shallow porous earthen pans of water, which if the sky be clear, the air dry, the temperatnre not above 50° F., and the wind not strong enough to keep the air from remaining sufficiently long in contact with the bed to acquire the requisite low temperature, freezes in the course of the night. With the dry north and north-west winds as much as a ton of ice may be obtained from each 240 square feet, but none is formed with the moister south and east winds even though the temperature be much lower. The terrestrial radiation or grass minimum thermometer should be mounted close to but not in contact with the ground, usually on a grass plot, though some prefer a black board on the earth. When snow lies it should be laid on it. Its purpose is to record the lowest temperature reached in the night close to the gi-ound from loss of heat by radiation from the earth, which on clear nights is often much lower than that of the air above, and is the cause of the deposition of dew and hoar frost. All thermometers should be graduated on the glass tube itself to tenths of a degree. The shade thermometer should be read at least twice or thrice daily, at 9 a.m. and 3 p.m., or 3 A.M., 3 P.M., and 10 p.m. The maximum and minimum thermometers are usually read