METEOROLOGY 370 observed in the difference between the dry, bracing climate of the East Coast, from Norfolk to Aberdeen, and the mild, humid climate and heavy rainfall of Ireland, Devon, and Cornwall. The unimportant part played by latitude alone is shown by the fact, that in the Shetlands snow rarely lies for many days together, though the humidity of the atmosphere and the want of clear sunshine preclude the maturation of cereals, oats excepted. But mean temperatures, unless given for every month in the year, and with the maxima and minima of the monthly variations, afford no useful information as to the true character of a climate. The annual means of London and Newchwang on the Gulf of Pechili are the same, about 50° F., but the means for January and July are for the former 40° and 60° F., and for the latter 0° and 80° F. ; and while the mean annual isothermal lines of England pass through Germany, those for July and January diverge to Finland and Greece respectively. These types of climate are often distinguished as insular and continental, the narrow range of the annual curves in the one being due to the proximity of the ocean ; since water, if it absorb heat more slowly than the land, parts with it slower still, and the greater amount of vapour in the air in summer detracts from its diather- mancy and moderates the heat of the sun's rays ; while the tendency to extremes characteristic of continental climates is intensified in every way when the general elevation of the country is considerable, as it is in southern Germany. The Barometer Ordinary hall barometers are not available for accurate scientific observations, for the levels of the mercury in the tube and the cistern vai-y inversely as their respective sectional areas, or the squares of their diameters, while the scale is necessarily fixed at 760 mm. or 30 inches of the mercury. Thus if the diameters be inch and 1 inch, i.e. as 1 : 10, the squares of these being 1 and 100, a rise of 1 inch in the tube involves a fall of j-ig- inch in the cistern, which must be added to the reading on the scale, and vice versa, constituting the correction for capacity. In the standard or Fortin's barometer this defect is obviated by making the bottom of the cistern movable, that the varying level of the mercury in the cistern can always be so ad- justed as to coincide with the zero of the fixed scale indicated by an ivory peg pointing down- wards. The scale shoidd be engraved on the tube or on a brass rod, the coefficients of expansion of which are known, and not on or attached to the frame. The barometer should be hung perfectly perpendicularly, as indicated by a spirit or mercurial level attaclied to it, in a position sheltered from sun and rain, but in a good light. To read the Barometer. — First note the temperature on the attached thermometer before it can be affected by the warmth of the observer's body. Then adjust the cistern by working the screw beneath it up or down until the point of the ivory peg just meets its image reflected on the surface of the mercury. Gently tap the barometer 3f 3G 3f 36 twice or thrice to over- come any adhesion of the mercury to the glass, and standing with the eye on a level with the upper end of the column, adjust the vernier so that its loiver margin just shuts off the light above the curved surface of the mercury. If (Fig. 1, a) this correspond exactly with a line on the scale the observation is com- plete ; if not, note the line next below on the scale, and then follow- ing the marks on the vernier upwards note the first that coincides with one on the scale. Each figure on the vernier represents y^"^"'^-'- i^^ch, and each division XW(T = wtt'^^'OO^ ^'^ inch, which together indicate the exact value of the excess of height of the mercury over the next lower mark on the scale. Thus suppose the mercury to stand a fraction above 29-650 inches on the scale, and the FlO. 1. Fig. 2. vernier having been adjusted, the first line to coincide with one on the scale to be the third above the figure 3, then, 0-036 is to be added to the 29-650, giving 29-686 as the correct reading (Fig. 1, b). Sometimes two consecutive lines on the vernier may appear to coincide with two on the scale ; the intermediate odd thousandth is then to be taken as the correct reading. Thus in