MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE 488 probably well, however, that the patient should live a life of active muscular exercise. 9. Idiopathic Muscular Atrophy and Hypertrophy Introduction.—Under this title a group of cases is described which is often known under the heading " Myopathy." Several types of this disease exist, and for the purposes of description they will be divided into four groups: (1) the infantile type; (2) the juvenile type (Erb); (3) the pseudo-hyper- trophic type; and (4) the facio-scapulo-humeral type (Landouzy-Dejerine). But although for the purposes of description such a division is convenient and may with justice be adopted, it must be remembered that there are many cases which do not conform to any of the above types, but possess some of the characters of each type. In fact, it is possible to find cases which form connecting links between all the types. General Considerations. — The characters which the various types of this disease possess in common are: slow progressive loss of power in muscles or groups of muscles which do not correspond either to a spinal or nerve distribu- tion ; the absence of all fibrillary contractions of the muscle so frequently seen in cases where the disease is of myelopathic origin ; the marked tendency of the disease to affect families and to pass from parent to child; the absence of any qualitative electrical change ; the absence of any disturbance in sensation, or in the condition of the sphincters ; and the .absence of affection of the muscles of the larynx, pharynx, and diaphragm. (1) Infantile Type.—The special characters of this type are that the disease begins in infancy; the weakness is not necessarily noticed a,t the time of birth, but generally between the third and sixth month of life. The babe does not learn to sit up, or if it does it is only late in doing so. At a somewhat later age, when put into a sitting position, it may be able to maintain the erect position, especially with the aid of the side of the cot; but if anything upsets its balance, it rolls over, and is not again able to assume the sitting position. The child is generally perfectly contented to lie in the position in which it has fallen or is placed. As the child grows it learns to talk at the usual age, is bright and intelligent, but it makes no attempt to walk. Such a child, if seen about the age of three years, presents the following- conditions :—The child will sit up in bed, the back being held very straight and the head erect. The arms and legs are very thin, but no localised atrophy or hypertrophy of the muscles can be made out. The lower portion of the pectoralis major is fairly developed in relation to the condition of the other muscles. Some of the leg muscles may feel rather tough and hard, but there is no hypertrophy. All the movements of the face and also of the arms are well performed, although the latter are weak ; and the same may be said to be true with regard to the legs, all movements being capable of performance, though weakly. If such a child be placed on its back and asked to sit up,/not infrequently it will be quite unable to do $50, or it will rotate itself on its long axis, so that its face is turned to the floor. The legs are drawn up under the abdomen, and then by a process of pushing by the hands the trunk is raised to an erect position. Even this cannot always be done without the aid of some lateral support such as the side of the cot. The trunk now having been placed in an erect position, the legs are manipulated so as to bring them again in front of the trunk, but great care has to be exercised so as not to disturb the equili- brium. As a rule the legs are somewhat flexed at the hip and knee joints by the contraction of the flexors of these joints, and cannot be fully extended. If the child is placed on its legs it will support its weight and make some attempt at progressing, but it can neither walk nor stand without some support. The bones of these children are always very small and thin, and if an attempt be made to lift them by grasping the upper part of the humerus, the loose condition of their shoulder-joints, so characteristic of myopathic affections, is at once noticeable. The intellectual development of these children is often very good, from the fact that they have been imable to get about like other children, and have had to amuse themselves or to be amused in other ways. The superficial reflexes are usually present, the knee-jerks are generally diminished or absent, according to the degree to which the atrophy has progressed. The sensation is natural, and all the functions are well performed. The electrical reactions show a greatly diminished reaction both to faradism and galvanism without any qualitative change. It is interesting also to note that these children will bear, without the least appearance of pain, a faradic current so strong that it cannot be borne by the normal adult. The disease is very slowly progressive, and apart from inter- current disease does not tend to shorten life. This form of disease is markedly familial, brothers and sisters of a family being alike afflicted, but it does not seem to pass from parent to child. This may be accounted for by the extremely crippled condition in which the child is from a few years after birth on- wards. The disease is very slowly progressive, and though not fatal in itself, the hold on life which these patients possess is very small, and they rapidly succumb if attacked by ailments which to a normal child would be trivial. (2) Juvenile Type (Erb).—This form of muscular atrophy commonly makes its appear- ance, as its name implies, during the second i