192 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF membered that there is always a danger that the local recurrences may be attended sooner or later with internal metastasis, especially in the lung. Carcinomata The frequency with which carcinoma is met with in the breast is of itself sufficient to give it an importance difficult to over-estimate. The great improvement in the results of surgical treatment, which a better knowledge of the pathology and mode of dissemination of the disease has brought about, has served to add further interest to the disease. Taking the combined statistics of Billroth, Schmidt, Bryant, Gross, and v. Angerer, we find that the carcinomata amount to 83 per cent of all breast tumours. From the statistics furnished by the Middlesex Hospital Reports, considerably more than half of all breast affec- tions are carcinomatous. The disease is over- whelmingly more common in females than in males. It is safe to say that not more than 2 per cent of breast cancers occur in the male. Many authorities, prominent amongst whom may be mentioned Williams in this country and Park in America, maintain that the disease is decidedly on the increase. Others maintain that the increase of cancer is more apparent than real, and, according to Newsholme, is to be attributed " to improved diagnosis and more careful certification of the causes of death, especially to the latter." This question, how- ever, along with the influences, if any, which determine a geographical distribution of cancer, and the question of "cancer houses," are matters which fall to be considered in dealing with cancer in general. The careful investigations of D'Arcy Power have led him to the conclusion that the cause of cancer will not be found in any given room or house or water-supply. Speaking generally, we may say that the disease most frequently appears between the ages of forty and sixty, the greater number occurring during the latter half of the fifth decade. Cancer of the breast is very rare before the age of thirty, and it seldom starts after seventy. A few cases have been recorded in which the disease began between the twentieth and twenty-fifth years. The cases mentioned by older authors as occurring under the age of twenty were in all probability sarcomata. Out of 451 cases collected by Gross, in which the catamenia are referred to, 62 per cent were stated as regularly menstruating when the disease appeared. Most surgeons, however, are agreed that the menstrual function is of no etiological significance. According to Gross, of 1545 women suffering from cancer of the breast, in whom the social condition is noted, 85"5 per cent were or had been mai-ried, and 14"5 per cent were single; of the married, 12 per cent were barren. Bryant and Sheild respectively give the proportion of the married as 80 and 82 per cent. With regard to nursing. Gross found that out of 416 cases in whom this is referred to, 76 per cent had suckled their infants, while 24 per cent had not. The effect of antecedent puerperal mastitis is regarded by some as an etiological factor of some importance. Gross, after a critical ex- amination of his statistics relative to this matter, does not attribute much importance to it. In only 49 cases out of 907 (5-4 per cent) could it be determined that the carcinoma "developed out of lumps or circumscribed indurations left by the inilammation." The average interval between the mastitis and the appearance of the cancer was as much as fourteen years. Most surgeons, however, have seen cancers which have developed beneath the scar resulting from a breast abscess. V. Angerer, after investigating more recent statistics regarding the influence of the social state, sums up as follows :—" Mammte that have attained their full functional development show a greater tendency to the development of carcinoma, i.e. parous women suffer more from carcinoma of the mamma than barren women. The influence of suckling is more marked than that of matrimony and conception, and it is quite certain that only a small proportion of those who later suffer from cancer of the breast have not suckled." Bryant and Winiwarter both refer to the relative frequency of mammary cancer in women who have suckled large families. Of the influence of chronic irritation and chronic inflammatory induration it is still more difficult to speak definitely. Certain it is that the proportion of women who suffer from such conditions is very great compared with those who ultimately suffer from cancer. As Mr. Sheild puts it, " chronic irritation of an unex posed glandular surface is very different from chronic irritation of a free surface; the former does not lead to cancer in other organs—for example, in the epididymis—and there is no reason to suppose that it has any special tendency to do so in the breast." The connection between contusions of the breast and carcinoma is not by any means established. Most women are able to call to mind having received some sort of injury to the breast, and the majority are only too ready to attribute the disease to that injury. Out of 1511 cases collected by Gross, in only 3-6 per cent was there " conclusive evidence that the tumour developed out of indurations and other conditions following the injury." Sheild, from the record of the St. George's Hospital cases, puts the percentage down as 6'2 out of 400 cases. The statistics of Snow, Ldwenthal, and Ziegler yield a percentage of 11-5, 13-4, and 22 respect- ively, the last being certainly higher than most surgeons would admit.