MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE 481 phosphorus, severe jaundice, in haemophilia and scurvy, and in other forms of arterial degeneration. 5. Forms of Muscular Degeneration.—Short mention need only be made here with regard to the forms of muscular degeneration; they occur for the most part in the course of prolonged febrile diseases, or as the result of some acute toxic condition. Three forms are usually de- scribed— (1) fatty degeneration; (2) hyaline degeneration ; and (3) vacuolation of the muscle fibre. (1) Fatty Degeneration.—This may occur in the course of any of the acute specific fevers, in septicsemia, and in acute and chronic tubercu- losis. It occurs in the course of various nervous affections in which there is atrophy and wasting of muscle, and it has also been shown to occur as the result of status epilepticus. The muscle also shows fatty degeneration in extreme wasting condition, whether produced by want of food or disease, and in poisoning by phosphorus and arsenic. Pathology.—In slighter cases the naked-eye appearance of muscle is normal, while in the severer cases it is easily friable, yellowish in colour, and has not its normal glistening ap- pearance. On microscopical examination of a muscle treated with osmic acid, one sees in the slighter cases small black granules scattered throughout the muscle, the transverse striation being still preserved. In more advanced con- ditions these black dots become more numerous, and arranged in a longitudinal manner; and in a still later stage the transverse striation of the fibre disappears, and fat granules are thickly distributed throughout the muscle fibre, while in the last stage the muscle fibre breaks down, and large droplets of fat are seen lying between the fibres, and the perivascular lymphatics are blocked with fat. (2) Hyaline Degeneration. — This form of muscular degeneration has been most frequently found in the course of typhoid fever; it occurs also, however, in septic conditions, after pneu- monia, influenza, miliary tuberculosis, rheumatic and scarlet fever. When occurring during the course of typhoid fever, it is met with at the end of the second week, and affects most com- monly the abductor muscles of the thigh and the rectus abdominis muscle. The symptoms usually complained of are extreme feebleness and sometimes pain in the affected muscles, which are very flabby. After the fourth week repair of the muscle begins to take place, and it eventually becomes completely restored. The muscle is pale, flaccid, and slightly oedem- atous. Under the microscope portions of muscle fibres are seen to be swollen, so that when cut longitudinally the fibre has an ir- regular margin with transparent degenerate areas. The fibres are broader, two to three times greater than normal, and have either a VOL. VI homogeneous appearance or a fine longitudinal striation, the transverse striation being only just visible. Spaces and holes occur in the fibre. The number of nuclei in the sheath of the fibre is unaltered. (3) Vacuolation. — This condition is found under almost any condition which gives rise to muscular degeneration. It is present in muscles after typhoid fever, in myositis, in myopathy, and after nerve degeneration. Under the micro- scope the condition appears as a clear space in the muscle fibre; there may be only one of such spaces, or they may be grouped together so as to form a complete vacuolated area in the centre of a fibre. On transverse section of the muscle some of the muscle fibres seem com- pletely replaced by a single large vacuolation, while in others there are numerous small vacuoles. The nature of the material which fills up these spaces is said to be a fluid albuminous body. 6. Inflammatory Diseases op the Muscles The difficulty of dividing this subject into suitable groups is considerable, but the follow- ing classification seems open to the least objection :— A. Primary Affection of Muscles. ii. Acute polymyositis, ii. Hsemorrhagic myositis, iii. Myositis which accom- panies urticaria and erythema. (2) Neuromyositis. (3) Tuberculous myositis. ((a) Diffuse syphilitic (4) Syphilitic myositis. < myositis. ((b) Muscle gumma. (5) Myositis due to trichina. B. Secondary Affections of Muscle in the Course of some Acute or Chronic Disease.—-They may be either suppurative or non-suppurative, parenchymatous or interstitial. Infective myo- sitis occurs in pyaemia, puerperal fever, ulcer- ative endocarditis, glanders, infective wounds, actinomysitis, erysipelas, and gonorrhoea. C. Myositis ossificans. (1) Polymyositis. The form of this disease known under the title acute polymyositis or dermato-myositis has only recently been recognised as an entity. Etiology. — The cause of the disease is obscure Two hypotheses have been suggested : firstly, that the disease is due to a toxin; secondly, that it is due to an animal parasite of the group Gregarinee. Neither of these hypo- theses has been proved, and careful bacterio- logical examination of the muscle has given a negative result. The suggestion that the con- dition is due to a toxin derived from the ingesta would be that which would seem most probable, for cases have been reported in which the 31