MILK FEVER 424 fever is given to a mild form of septic poisoning. Bee PuBRPBRiUM, Physiology (Temperature). Milk Laboratories.—Milk labora- tories, which now exist in many of the large towns of the United States and Great Britain, are buildings in which, with the greatest pre- cautions as to cleanliness, cow's milk is modified for infant use. Physicians send into these laboratories their prescriptions for milk stating the percentage quantities of proteids, sugar, fat, etc., and the milk is made up according to these data and supplied to the patient; this percentage feeding has been found very bene- ficial in many of the disorders of infancy, such as diarrhoea. See Rotch, Pediatrics, 5th ed., pp. 208-228, 1906. Milk Leg^. See Veins, Diseases of {Phlebitis, PJileijmasia alba dolens). Millar's Asthma. See Thymus Gland {Enlargement). Millar's Disease.—Laryngismus stridulus. Millet.—A form of vegetable food not much used in this country ; it is a nutritious cereal. The millet seed has a characteristic appearance, and milium, miliaria, and miliary are medical terms derived from it {q.v.). Millon'S Reagent. — This reagent (mixed nitrates), used in the detection of true proteids, is made by dissolving 10 grams of mercury in 20 grams of nitric acid, diluting the solution with an equal volume of water, and allowing it to stand for twenty-four hours, when it is decanted ; with proteids and benzene and naphthalene derivatives it gives a white pre- cipitate, turning red on boiling. Pure glutin or gelatine does not give Millon's reaction. Mimetic Affections.—imitative maladies (Gr. /xt/xos, an imitator or actor); thus paralysis or spasm of the facial muscles may occur as a mimetic disease, and mimetic joint aff'ections are well known. See Joints, Diseases OF {Hysterical or Mimetic Joint Affections). Mimicry.—Imitation; the cause of the mimetic aff'ections referred to above; it may also enter into the causation of chorea. See Chorea {Etiology, Imitation); Malingering (Nervous Mimicry, Neuro-Mimesis); Mental Deficiency {Mongoloid Cases). Mind Blindness.—A form of aphasia. The patient can see things such as words, but they convey no intellectual impression to his mind; they are like the words of an unknown tongue to him. See Aphasia (Word-Blindness). Mind Cure.—The alleged cure of a dis- ease by mental influence alone; the healer's mind is supposed to act upon the patient's in such a way as to lead to cure. Mind Deafness. See Aphasia {Word- Deafness). Mind, Education of the. Necessity of Educating the Body as well as the Mind 424 Psychological and Physiological Views of Mind 424 Composition of the Nervous System . . 425 Blood ample in Quantity and good in Quality required . . . . .425 Early Education necessary . . .425 Development of Sensory and Motor Tracts, and of Association Fibres requi7-ed . 425 Development of Knowledge from the Con- crete to the Abstract .... 426 Education of the Special Senses . . 426 Necessity of recalling Images of Objects— Memory . . . . . .4:27 Attention ...... 427 Fatigue 427 Motor Training . . . . .427 Necessity of Development of Association Fibres 428 Moral Training . . . . .428 Education and Treatment of Children who are—(1) Weak-minded; (2) Nervous; (3) Hysterical; (4) Epileptic; (5) Mor- ally imbecile ; (6) Morally perverted; (7) Scrofulous and Consumptive . . 428 Mental Hygiene ..... 430 See also Blind, Training and Education of ; Deafmutism ; Epilepsy and Epileptic Colonies ; Memory in Health and Disease ; Mental Deficiency ; etc. Plato says truly that " the purpose of educa- tion is to give to the body and the soul all the beauty and all the perfection of which they are capable." If for "soul" we read "mind" we see that the old philosopher was aware that true education consists in training the body as well as the mind, so that we may have mens sana in cotpore sa7to. The body and brain are dependent on one another, and, as we shall shortly show, it is necessary that both be well nourished ; if they are not, mental activity will be lessened. According to the psychologist, states of action of mind can be analysed into three elements— viz., ideation, feeling, and volition, or knowing, feeling, and willing. Herbert Spencer goes further, and says that the various degrees of intelligence are known as instinct, memory, reason, emotion, and will. According to the physiologist, states of action of mind consist in some change—molecular, chemical, or vital— in the nerve cells of the brain. To those of us who are physicians the physiological definition appeals, and in what we have to say regarding the education of the mind, physiology rather than psychology will be appealed to.