LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF 102 ment in the course of general infective diseases, enlargement secondary to cancer and sarcoma, and the large and somewhat indefinite group of chronic enlargements due to leucocytha^mia, tubercle, lymphadenoma and lymphosarcoma. As will be seen latei', the want of agreement as to nomenclature gives rise to much overlapping, in the chronic enlargements in particular. Acute Lymphadenitis.—The pathology of this condition lias been discussed in the foregoing general section, and in the section on lymph- angitis. The acute condition is always the result of absorption of irritating material from the periphery', and is always associated with more or less lymphangitis, though sometimes this is not very evident, and the symptoms, etc. are similar. It is to be remembered that spread- ing gangrene and some forms of cellulitis do not give rise to adenitis, possibly because they cause an early thrombosis of lymph-vessels, so that their products do not reach the glands. It is often discussed whether "strain" can cause adenitis. It is a favourite explanation of enlargement and tenderness of inguinal glands among parents and guardians who object to boys playing football; but one can generally find some septic scratch about the knee or else- where which is responsible for the mischief. Of course, however, there can be no doubt that trauma may in some regions interfere with the flow of lymph, and cause enlargement and tenderness of the glands behind. One point of some importance is that while the leucocytes of the gland, lymphocytes and hyaline cells, are equal to any ordinary demands upon them, any serious inflammatory reaction is assisted by the emigration of leucocytes from the blood-vessels of the gland, and these are mainly polymorphonuclear cells. Supjjuration is often relatively long delayed, and the giving way of the capsule and the occurrence of a considerable amount of periadenitis usually precedes the formation of an abscess with recognisable fluctuation. The first essential in the treatment of acute adenitis is to remove the cause, in order to stop the supply of infective material and give the glands a chance of recovering themselves, and thereafter to use the same kind of treatment as for lymphangitis. Chronic Lymphadenitis.—When glands have been acutely inflamed they often remain en- larged and hard for some time. This is usually the result of periadenitis and sometimes of the formation of fibrous tissue in the gland, and the two together may often interfere with the further usefulness of the gland. But where the source of irritation has not been sufliciently virulent to cause an acute inflammation, but has acted for a long time, there may be a primary chronic enlargement, which may be either a slight inflammation or simply a hyper- trophy and hyperplasia of the gland according to the amount and character of the irritation. A familiar example of this is the enlargement of a gland or glands which is often associated with carious teeth, with the presence of a slight pharyngeal catarrh, or with adenoids. In all these cases the application of the rule, " remove the peripheral irritation," is often followed by the disappearance of the enlarged gland. When this effect does not follow, one should always suspect that the primary break of surface has given entrance to tubercle bacilli, and the progress of the case should be carefully watched. The local application of iodine in some form is often useful to remove the last traces of thickening; one of the fluid preparations of iodine or the ointments of iodide of potassium or mercury may be used. The most important group of chronic local inflammations of glands is that due to tubercle. While every gland in the body may be infected with tubercle bacilli, the condition occurs with immensely greatest frequency in the groups of glands associated with the alimentary and respiratory tracts, and most often of all in the glands connected with the regions where these tracts have their common origin, the buccal, nasal, and pharyngeal cavities. Tubercle of the bronchial and mediastinal glands on the one hand, and of the abdominal glands on the other, need not be here discussed, as they seldom come before the practitioner unaccom- panied by serious disease of the organs with which they are connected. Generalised tuber- culosis of glands, also, will be discussed in connection with lymphadenoma. It is tubercle of the glands of the neck, using that regional term in its widest sense, which is the most common form, and it has always been preceded by the presence of tubercle bacilli in the cavities above mentioned, which have made their way into lymph-vessels throvigh some breach of surface or inflamed tissue. Adenoids, inflamed tonsils, carious teeth, stomatitis or pharyngitis of any kind, middle-ear disease, and so on, may give the bacilli a chance of entry, and there results a slow, painless enlargement of first one gland, then another, until, if the process be uninter- rupted, the whole of the glands above the clavicle may be affected in series. The glands may remain discrete for a long time; but sooner or later periadenitis occurs, and they become matted together, and usually in the long run suppuration takes place in some of them, from softening and from the penetration of other organisms to the caseated masses. The skin is thinned above these foci, the abscesses burst, spongy, oozing cicatrices may remain for years, and in the best possible result heal at last, with the production of great disfigurement. Most of these cases ultimately die of tubercular disease in other organs, generally in the lungs. It is only rarely that these cases present any