240 MEDIASTINUM, THE as a tumour of the anterior mediastinum. It may cause spasm of the glottis—thymic asthma —or exercise pressure on the trachea. In a case recorded by Dr. H. D. Rolleston, occurring in a boy aged six years, death was sudden, and was probably due to dilatation of the heart arising from compression of the vagi. Dermoid cysts containing hair and teeth have been met with in the mediastinum. Sometimes they ca\ise no symptoms, but they may set up empyema by opening into the pleura, or by extension into the lung give rise to haemoptysis and phthisis. Congenital cysts occasionally occur, usually in connection with the oesophagus. They have been found to be composed of unstriped muscular tissue and are lined with ciliated epithelium. They are filled with a glairy fluid. After the liver, the lungs and pleura are most freqiiently affected by hydatid disease, but thoiigh conmion in Australia it does not often occur in this country. A small cyst may cause so little discomfort as to be overlooked. With increasing growth, pressure symptoms are developed as the cyst is tense; hence gangrene of the lung and troubles due to obstruction of the bronchi may arise. The occurrence of bronchitic symptoms and profuse haemoptysis may lead to the disease being mistaken for phthisis. The physical signs of hydatid disease of the lung are generally those of a localised empyema or of a solid tumour. A circumscribed bulging of the chest-wall, with dulness which may transgress the median line, but does not extend to the apex, and the possible detection of fluctuation and hydatid thrill, indicate, according to Bristowe, the possibility of a pvilmonary hydatid. As a rule, however, the diagnosis is only made after one or more daughter cysts have been expectorated, or after booklets have been detected in fluid drawn off by an exploratory puncture. The prognosis in hydatid tumour is better than in other mediastinal tumours. Its dura- tion is greater than that of malignant disease, and recovery has been recorded after expectora- tion of hydatid cysts. Moreover, this is one of the few cases in which surgical interference is likely to be attended with success. Of the innocent tumours fibroma and osteoma have been met with in lung and pleura, enchon- droma in the lung alone, and lipoma only in the pleura. These are all of pathological interest rather than of clinical importance. A considerable number of cases of actino- mycosis of the lungs has been recorded. The fungus may enter the body through the respiratory mucous membrane, and, setting up suppuration, may suggest tuberculosis or empyema. In contradistinction to phthisis the apex is rarely involved. It may also simulate sarcoma of the lung. The diagnosis can only be made by detecting the characteristic ray- fungus in the expectoration, or in the fluid removed from the pleural cavity or from a sinus in the chest-wall (see "Actinomycosis," vol. i. p. 52). HEMORRHAGE INTO MEDIASTINUM. Among the rarer conditions aff"ecting the mediastina may be mentioned extravasation of blood into them. This has been recorded as the result of the rupture of an aneurysm. In a case of extravasation of blood into the posterior medi- astinum, the principal symptoms were ansemia and vomiting, the latter being probably due to irritation of the vagus nerves set up by pressure of the effused blood. Medical Ethics. See Ethics, Medical ; Medicine, Medical Practitioner. iVIedicai Jurisprudence. See Medicine, Forensic. Medical Practitioner. See Medi- cine, Medical Practitioner ; Medicine, Foren- sic ; Post-mortem Methods ; Vital Statistics. Medication.—Treatment by medicines; impregnation with medicinal substances, e.g. medicated wines, sweets, etc. See Morphino- MANiA and Allied Drug Habits {Cocaine Habit). Medicine, Forensic. Definition ...... 241 History ....... 241 Certification of Deaths and Legal Pro- cedure 241 England 241 Scotland ...... 242 Fees 242 Post-mortem Reports and Examinations 243 Dying Declarations .... 244 Identity of Living and the Dead . 244 The Signs of Death .... 245 Cooling of Body .... 245 Rigor Mortis ..... 245 Hypostasis. Post-mortem Lividity . 246 Putrefaction . . . . .247 Wounds and Injuries— General Considerations . . . 248 Causes of Death . . . .249 Accident, Suicide, or Murder . . 250 Ante-aTid Post-mortem Wounds. . 251 Various Kinds of Wounds— Abrasions, Bruises and Contusions; 251 Incised, Punctured, Lacerated; Ruptures, Fractures . . . 254 Wounds from Fire-Arms . . . 255 Burns 257 Death from Lightning and Electric Currents 258 Death from Starvation . . . 258 Death from Cold and Exposure . . 258