MENINGITIS, TUBERCULOUS AND POSTERIOR BASIC 317 Tuberculous Meningitis (contd.)— Diagnosis . . . . .319 Pathology and Morbid Anatomy . 320 Treatment 321 Posterior Basic Meningitis— Etiology 321 Symptoms ..... 322 Complications ..... 322 Prognosis . . . . .323 Pathology and Morbid Anatomy . 323 Diagnosis . . . . .323 Treatment ..... 324 Meningitis, by which term is usually meant a leptomeningitis or inflammation of the pia arachnoid, as opposed to pachymeningitis or inflammation of the dura mater, may be due to various causes, and to some extent it is possible to differentiate clinical varieties cor- responding with differences of etiology. The most important factor in the etiology of meningitis is bacterial infection; and although any complete clinical classification corresponding with bacteriological differences is at present impossible, certain forms of this disease are now known to be due to specific micro-organisms. In this way tuberculous and so-called cerebro- spinal meningitis, together with the closely- allied disease of infants, posterior basic menin- gitis, are now recognised as quite distinct from those conditions which are due to the various pyogenic micro - organisms, and which are grouped together under the name suppurative meningitis. The meninges of the spinal cord and of the brain are continuous structures, and any inflammation which affects primarily one part of the meninges may spread to the remaining portion. Any form of meningitis may be, and often is, cerebro-spinal in distribution. The term meningitis must be understood to include not only the cerebral, but also the spinal meninges. In any form of meningitis the mode of infection varies in different cases. Three routes of infection can be recognised—(i.) direct, e.g. infection through a wound or a sloughing spina bifida, or a carious petrous bone; (ii.) by the lymphatics, e.g. from the naso-pharynx, or middle ear; (iii.) by the blood, e.g. in such general infections as pyaemia, typhoid, and some forms of tuberculosis. It is, however, often difficult to determine the exact route of infection in any particular case. Perhaps one of the most striking features in the etiology of meningitis is the influence of age. Meningitis is far commoner in infancy and early childhood than at any other period of life. It has been suggested that this special age incidence is related to frequency of infec- tion from the middle ear. The patency of the petrosquamosal suture, and the venous communication afforded by the petrosquamosal sinus, especially in infancy and early cliildhood —a point recently emphasised by Mr. Arthur Cheatle—bring the middle ear into very close relation with the meninges. There is, however, no satisfactory evidence that sucla infection is common; indeed, it seems probable that infection from the ear is rather the exception than the rule. In the present article tuberculous and posterior basic meningitis will be considered, and it will be well to deal with them separately, for they differ not only in their morbid ana- tomy and bacteriology, but also in their clinical features. Tuberculous Meningitis Etiology.—Age, Sex, etc.—Tuberculous men- ingitis is rare under six months of age; it has its maximum frequency in the second year of life, and then gradually becomes less frequent. After the age of ten years tuberculous meningitis is uncommon ; it is, however, less rare in young adults than in middle or later life. There is little difference in the liability of the sexes. Several observers have noticed a slightly greater frequency amongst boys than girls. Some statistics taken by the writer at the Hospital for Sick Children showed sixty-two boys to fifty-seven girls. No special seasonal variation has been observed. Predisposing and Exciting Causes.—It seems likely that, as in other tuberculous cases, local injury in a tuberculous subject may favour the onset of tuberculous meningitis; certainly it sometimes follows shortly after a blow or fall upon the head. Tissue proclivity also in certain families is probably a factor in localising the incidence of tubercle. It happens not very rarely that more than one child in a family will die with this particular form of tuberculosis. Tuberculous meningitis sometimes begins within a few weeks after one of the specific fevers, especially after measles or whooping- cough; a similar sequence has been reported after erythema nodosum, a sequence which the writer himself has observed. In these, as in other cases, it is almost, if not quite, invariably found that some tuberculous lesion of older date is present, which had remained latent until roused into fresh activity by the occurrence of a specific fever. A point of considerable practical importance is the occurrence of tuberculous meningitis after surgical operations, such as removal of tuberculous glands ; probably a scraping operation, or the infection of the wound with broken-down caseous material, is more likely to be followed by meningitis than a clean excision of the tuberculous focus. The exciting cause in all cases is the bacillus tuberculosis. Symptoms. — In the common form of this disease, where clinically the meningeal affection