FORENSIC 242 MEDICINE, The coroner must inqiiire into all such cases of death, and he may issue an order for the attendance of any medical man at an inquest to give evidence as to the cause of death. An order of the coroner must be obeyed. Whether a medical man has been or has not been in attendance upon the deceased person, the coroner may order him to inspect the body, and then to appear at the inquest and give evidence ; or the coroner may order him to make a post-mortem examination when the circum- stances surrounding the death are suspicious, or any person is implicated in its causation. There are, no doubt, many cases of sudden death in which, by a simple inspection of the body taken along with the previous history of the deceased, it may be possible for a medical man to give a satisfactory explanation of the death; but, on the other hand, the proper and only conclusive method of determining the question is by a post-mortem examination, which it is in the power of the coroner to order in all cases. If, therefore, a medical man finds that he is unable to state the probable cause of death from a mere inspection of the body, he should inform the coroner, and throw the responsibility upon that official, of being satisfied with his evidence, such as it may be, or of ordering a post-mortem examination. Any order for a post-mortem examination should be in writing and signed by the coroner. Evidence at the inquest is given on oath. It is taken down in writing, and after being signed by the witness it forms his deposition, and becomes part of the evidence in any subsequent developments of the case. The medical witness is bound over, at the inquest, to appear in any further proceedings which may be instituted. In charges of man- slaughter or murder the medical witness will subsequently have to appear and give evidence in the Magistrates' Court, where under certain circumstances the cases may be disposed of, or the prisoner may be remitted for trial at the Assizes. In both these courts the witness is liable to be cross-examined, and his deposition will be in the hands of counsel for the defence as well as for the prosecution. It is therefore of great importance that statements made at the coroner's inquest should only be given after careful consideration, and with a due sense of responsibility. Any retraction of dogmatic statements made at the inquest may expose the witness to severe strictures upon his conduct. A witness is only bound to attend at court upon receiving a subpoena; but he must obey a subpoena, and only very exceptional circum- stances will excuse his attendance—such, for example, as serious illness, in which case a proper medical certificate stating the nature of the illness must be forwarded to the court. Urgent private affairs are not a sufficient excuse for disobeying a subpoena. The Fees to which a medical witness is en- titled are :—For inspection of a body, and giving evidence at an inquest, £1 : Is. For a post-mortem examination, and giving evidence at the inquest, £2 : 2s. Attendance at Magistrates' Court, 10s. 6d., if resident within three miles; if beyond this distance, £\ : Is. Attendance at Assize Court, £\ : Is. a day. Two shillings for every night away fi-om home, and second-class railway fare (first class if no second class). Sundays are not included. When a person has died in a public institution, hospital, infirmary, asylum, workhouse, etc., the medical officer is not entitled to any fee for attending an inquest; but if a dead body is brought into such institution, then the medical officer, on being duly summoned to give evidence, is entitled to the usual fee. Procedmx in Scotland.—There is no public inquiry into cases of sudden or violent death in Scotland (except in those falling under the Fatal Accidents Inquiry Act, 1895, and certain other statutes), the duties pertaining to the coroner being performed by a legal officer called the procurator-fiscal. All cases of sudden, suspicious, or violent death are inquired into by him, generally with the aid of the police in the first instance. He may give a certificate to the registrar as to the cause of death without requiring medical evidence; but in the majority of cases, in which there are no suspicious circumstances, he requests a medical man to furnish him with a "medical certificate." Such a certificate must be " on soul and conscience," and requires the medical man to state what, in his opinion, has been the probable cause of death from a simple inspection and external examination of the body, and from his knowledge of the circumstances attending the death; or, in other words, whether, in his opinion, death has been due to natural causes. The certificate should be couched in the following terms:— Place. Date. I hereby certify upon soul and conscience that on at I examined the body of (name) The body was that of a well-nourished, healthy, etc. person, apparently about years of age. (Any external appearances indicating disease, e.g. dropsy, etc., should be stated.) There were no marks of external violence. From the fore- going examination, and from a consideration of the circumstances of the case, I am of opinion that death was due to natural causes, namely to—e.g. syncope, the result of chronic disease of the heart. Signature.