MENINGITIS, EPIDEMIC CEUEBRO-SPINAL 329 The Urine.—Febrile albuminuria is common. Arthritis.—One of the most interesting com- plications of the disease is multiple arthritis, which was noticed by James Jackson and North in the early American epidemics. It was present in only two of our cases. . It may, as in Case VII. in our series, be a multiple suppura- tive arthritis of the greatest in- tensity, so that on the fourth day of the disease the patient presented the picture of an acute pysemia of the greatest severity. There was pus in the knee-joints, from which the meningcococcus was isolated. In other instances it is rather a periarthritis, and there is redness, swelling, and pain, but no suppuration. Special Senses.—Eyes.—Slight conjunctivitis is common. Photo- phobia is common. Randolph found seven cases out of forty with strabismus. The optic disc was congested in a large propor- tion of the cases, and acute optic neuritis was found by Randolph in six cases. Purulent choroido- iritis or keratitis may be present. Involvement of the fifth nerve at the base, or of the Gasserian ganglion, may lead to keratitis or to a purulent infiltration of the eye. Ear.—Suppuration in the middle ear and in the labyrinth not infrequently leads to deafness, the most serious sequel of the disease in children as it not infrequently causes deafmutism. Moos found in sixty-four cases of recovery from cerebro-spinal fever that 55 per cent of the persons were deaf. Diagnosis.—The following diseases may at times resemble cerebro-spinal fever. (1) Malig- nant smallpox. The intensity of the headache and backache, the early stupor, and the petechiee may lead to error, particularly if cerebro-spinal fever is prevailing at the time. (2) Typhoid fever with marked cerebro-spinal localisation. The more gradual onset, the gastro-intestinal symptoms, and the rose-spots are important; but probably the two most valuable diflferential points are Kernig's sign and the results of the lumbar puncture. I have seen cases in which no suspicion whatever of typhoid fever had been entertained until the demonstration of the characteristic lesions at autopsy. There may be the most pronounced meningitic symptoms, retraction of the head, clonic spasms and marked cutaneous hyper- sesthesia. In a case last year of this character in a negro girl it was only the onset of a parotitis that suggested typhoid fever, which was con- firmed post-mortem. The Widal reaction may be an important aid, and we have recently in cases of very intense infection cultivated the typhoid bacillus from the blood before the Widal reaction was present. Stokes' statement must always be remembered in connection with the acute fever. "There is no single nervous symptom which may not and does not occur Chart III.—An intermittent form of temperature. independently of any appreciable lesion of the brain, nerves, or spinal cord." (3) Typhus fever presents many close simi- larities to cerebro-spinal fever, and epidemics of the two diseases have coexisted. (4) The so-called cerebral type of pneumonia may simulate closely cerebro-spinal fever. The sudden onset with a chill, the herpes, in children the convulsions are most suggestive, and the meningeal features may so dominate a case that the pulmonary condition is overlooked. It may be difficult or impossible in a case of pneumonia with very marked cerebro-spinal symptoms to say whether there is actual meningitis present or not. Here again the lumbar puncture and Kernig's sign may be of the greatest value. (5) Influenza in a few rare cases may simulate cerebro-spinal fever. Epidemics of the two dis- eases have coexisted, and Netter thinks that the cases of so-called " grippal meningitis " have been instances of cerebro-spinal fever. Two important aids in diagnosis have been brought forward of late years which are of special importance in the diagnosis of the existence of meningitis. Kernig's Sign.—We have found this of the greatest possible assistance; and I may say that it has been present in all cases of meningitis in which it has been looked for, and it has not been found in any case in which meningitis was not present. To test for Kernig's sign the patient should be propped in bed in the sitting posture: then on at- tempting to extend the leg on the thigh there