MORPHINOMANIA AND ALLIED DRUG HABITS 443 Antipyrin ...... 452 Antifebrin ...... 452 Paraldehyde ...... 452 Chlorodynb ...... 453 Eau de Cologne, etc. .... 453 See Morphia (and cross-references); Hyp- notism (/« Insanity); Urine, Pathological Changes in (Pentose). The term morphinomania, as coined by Charcot, or morphinism as used by Levinstein, signifies an uncontrollable craving for morphia by means of subcutaneous injection, which takes hold of its victim with a grip of terrible power, ever increasing its hold and dominion, and demoral- ising the mind, the senses, and the system of those who own its sway. The first attempts at hypodermic medication were made by Mr. Rhynd of Dublin ^ in 1845, while to Mr. Wood in 1855 is due the popular- isation of the method. For a long time the vice of opium-eating, including smoking and drinking, has been known and recognised as one of the great social evils of Oriental countries. But even in England opium has had its victims, though not to such an extent as to obtrude themselves on society and be recognised as a great class of unfortunates. De Quincey maintains that in his time (1856) they were "a very numerous class indeed," and gives a long list of celebrities of the day known by him to indulge in the habit. Is morphia, then, going to take the place of opium, and bring to us Western peoples the horrors we have been accvistomed to associate with the smoking dens of the East 1 It would appear that the use of morphia has already become a steadily-increasing habit. Hospitals have been opened specially for the treatment of morphia habitues. There is one in Berlin ^ organised by Levinstein, and one at Gratz in Styria with three hundred patients. In Brooklyn ^ one has been opened for habitues of morphia, cocaine, and chloral. Dr. Norman Kerr in his work on " Inebriety " says: " The result of my observation is that the habit of morphia injection is undoubtedly on the increase." According to Jouet and Zam- baco the practice has become almost a matter of fashion amongst the ladies of Paris and Con- stantinople, and presents are made of pretty syringes, with silver and jewel-set cases, so that ladies can make reciprocal injections of morphine at any convenient opportunity. To show how little is thought of the habit abroad, a traveller relates how a lady in a railway carriage in the south of France " raised her skirt so as to expose the bare skin of her thigh immediately above the stocking, and in- ' Vide Dublin Medical Press, March 12, 1845, p. 167. 2 B. M. J., 1890, vol. ii. p. 812. 3 76. 1891, vol. i. p. 1393. jected a syringe full of morphia, giving her fellow-passengers, who listened with intense in- terest, a long account of the subjective symptoms that would follow."^ According to M. Foville's estimate, there were 40,000 morphinonianiacs in Paris in 1883. In 1893 there were, according to M. Dubut de Laforet, 100,000.- One of the popular preachers in Chicago lately stated to his audience that there were in that city 35,000 persons who habitually took morphia. He believes, however, that lately the number is diminishing rather than increasing since cycling became popular, for it has led many to seek, from fresh air and exercise, that relief from insomnia and worry which otherwise would have been looked for through the hypo- dermic syringe.^ Morphia injection was introduced into Shang- hai as a cure, forsooth, for opium-smoking. From this it was introduced into Hong-Kong, and six months after there were twenty houses carrying on a systematic trade, each house with an average of fifty clients, who called regularly morning and evening for their injec- tion. These injections were given by ignorant, unqualified persons at a charge of about one halfpenny, and the practice was growing with such fearful rapidity that happily the authori- ties had to take notice of it, and issued an ordinance making the practice illegal.* In 1895, we read that the consuls in China con- stantly draw attention to the continued habit of injecting morphia by unqualified persons at several ports. Those who sell morphia and give the injection make a profit of from 200 to 400 per cent. One victim said : " It is much cheaper than opium-smoking, and I get the same satisfaction out of it. I know of ten Chinese doctors, each of whom treats fifty to a hundred men daily with this medicine." ^ In 1896 it is reported that the practice of injecting morphia by unqualified persons having been checked at Hong-Kong, has spread to Singapore, and is becoming very prevalent on the mainland. I It is quite evident, therefore, even allowing ! for some exaggeration in these statements, I that morphinomania is increasing with terrible rapidity and spreading with fearful swiftness. There is equally little doubt that it is upon the members of the medical profession that the greatest havoc is being wrought, as compared i with any other class of the community. Ober- steiner, speaking of the prevalence of morphinism among the profession in Austria, hints broadly that, in his view, there is poetical justice in the fact that this fatal habit should work most 1 B. M. J., 1892, vol. i. p. 187. 2 16. 1893, vol. i. p. 1026. ^ lb. 1895, vol. ii. p. 1371. * lb. 1893, vol. ii. pp. 803 and 1135. ^ lb. 1895, vol. ii. p. 572. ^ lb. 1896, vol. i. p. 1531.