500 MYCETOMA Mycetoma, a fungus foot (Carter), is common enough in parts of India, and particularly in Madura, in the Madras Presidency; in other districts occasional cases also occur. A few instances, five in number, have also been met with in America, two of the patients coming from Texas ; it seems probable that cases have hitherto been overlooked, and mistaken for tubercular caries or elephantiasis. Only one case has occurred in Europe (Bassiiii). As the poorer classes in India are nearly always bare- footed, the fungus probably finds its way into the part by some wound or fissure, especially as thorns are excessively common in the fields, and even the thick skin of the sole is frequently penetrated. In by far the larger number the foot is affected, but the disease also occurs in the fingers and palm of the hand, occasionally spreading upwards to the forearm. All the patients I have seen have been natives of the country, and so far as I am aware, the disease has not been met with in an European ; the latter wear boots, and are not likely to be in the fields except for shooting or soldiering purposes. The big toe is very frequently the earliest seat of the disease, and, unfortunately, the sole may also be primarily attacked ; very rarely does the disease extend above the leg, but I have met with it in the knee and thigh as high as the apex of Scarpa's triangle. There is, of course, no reason why any part of the body should not be affected provided the fungus be introduced. The researches of Drs. Kanthack, Boyce, and Surveyor show that the fungus is allied to that of actinomycosis. There are three varieties met with, named from the appearance of the peculiar bodies found either in the discharge or in the tissues. 1. Black Variety.—The bodies are black like grains of coarse gunpowder. 2. Yellow Variety. — The bodies resemble seeds, grains of smokeless powder, or fish roe. 3. Red variety, in which tlie colour of the particles is orange or red like grains of Cayenne pepper. This variety is less frequently met I with than either of the others, while the black I variety is most common of all. Symptoms.—The attention of the patient is usually at- tracted by swelling of the part, which, if it be the big toe, appears thickened, and has probably on the under surface one or more small -swellings-which burst, and from which a purulent dis- charge issues, and on careful examination some of the characteristic bodies can generally be detected in it. As the disease advances the whole foot becomes gradu- ally enlarged and misshapen, the dorsal and plantar sur- faces become more and more convex, the toes are gradually shortened and buried in the deformed foot {see Figure); numerous fistulous openings now form, but sometimes there are a few only; also rounded elevations about the size of a sixpenny piece are met with—these are usually darker than the surrounding surface, or may be yellow in colour. If very numerous they give almost the appearance of a tubercular eruption, having the shape and sometimes the size of a limpet; in the centre of these the fistulous opening is frequently found, but many are unbroken. If the swellings be opened the black or yellow bodies may be found in them. There is, as a rule, little or no pain present, but the patient complains of the increasing weight and the wealaiess of the foot when placed on the ground; at a later stage, how- ever, when the bones are involved, a good deal of pain may be complained of, and if the sole is markedly convex, as it soon becomes when early affected, the difficulty of walking is very much increased. On palpation the tissues feel firm, brawny, and inelastic; in parts, however, there may be areas rather softer than the rest, and occasionally fluctuating. The fistulous openings are small, and surrounded by dis-