MYIASIS 507 who according to old chronicles were " eaten by worms," was in all probability due to this cause. 3. Myiasis Narium, Conjunctivoe, Vaginae, etc. —Here also some diseased or dirty condition is necessary to allure the fly. The chief species found depositing their young in these situations are again for the most part blue-, grey-, and green-bottle flies. Of this latter genus the maggots of the species Lucilia hominovorax are the best known, and by far the most de- structive. In all cases where the nostrils, the ears, or the conjunctivae have been the seat of oviposition, great swelling, pain, and fever occur. The maggots may wander to the frontal sinuses, or may gain entrance to the middle ear, or cause perforation of the cornea. The larvse of Lucilia hominovorax (screw-worm) have the power of actually piercing through cartilages by means of their strong hooklets and the screwing movement of their body, and in the island of Cayenne, where the fly is best known to us, cases are very frequent and death far from uncommon. Severe mental symptoms may be caused by the disgusting nature of the malady when the maggots are found in the mouth or nose. The diagnosis of the condition is not difficult when an open wound is exposed to view, and where the possibility of the occurrence is known. But when the larvte are hidden in cavities of the body the inflammatory condition may be ascribed to other causes until the maggots themselves are seen. Thus Summa relates a case diagnosed as erysipelas of the face until a closer examination, which had been delayed on account of the horrible foetor, revealed a per- foration at the junction of the soft and hard palate in which numbers of maggots were lying. Injections of carbolic acid were ordered every half hour, the maggots were almost continuously removed all day by the patient's wife, yet the physician was able at one visit to take away fifty. The patient was convalescent in a few days. Treatment.—Mechanical removal is of course indicated, and should be performed diligently. The most efficient agent for dislodgment or killing the larvse, which are, as we have seen, extremely resistant to chemical agents, is chloro- form ; aq. chloroform of the B.P. being very eff'ective. Turpentine is valuable where it can be applied, and naphthalin, thymol, and infusion of tobacco have been found useful. Insect Stings and Bites. — Among insects which attack man from revenge or fear we find many members of the Hymenoptera, and of these the species most commonly met with in our country are bees and wasps. As a rule the sting of one of these insects causes no more serious eflPects than local pain and itching, accompanied by more or less swelling; but the effects are very variable, and it is not unusual to find general and much more serious symptoms resulting. Deaths from this cause are also frequently recorded. The patient is usually an adult in good health, often a particularly healthy man. The sting is implanted on the exposed hands or face. Toxic manifestations occur within ten minutes' time or less, and the sufferer is brought to the point of death, or actually dies, in about twenty-five minutes from the time when stung. The following symptoms occur in typical cases :—Congestion of head and neck, accom- panied by running from eyes and nose, in- creasing to cyanosis or deep lividity; swelling of throat and tongue (even though sting he on hand); slowing of pulse; embarrassment of heart and respiration ; great itching of skin or pain all over body, especially perhaps in abdo- men ; vomiting; purging; erythema, or other rash; syncope. Recovery is usually rapid if the patient survive these symptoms for an hour or two. In twenty-four or forty-eight hours he is well ; occasionally ill-health has resulted for some weeks or months. Septic or specific in- fection of the wound may occur in the process of stinging, and septic cellulitis or tetanus may result. Dr. Julius Athans records glycosuria and epilepsy occurring after an interval of re- spectively "a few weeks" and "nine months" from date of injury, due in both cases, he believes, to the poison of the insect. We do not yet know, in the case of a bee or wasp sting, what conditions determine on diff'erent occasions its greater or lesser toxicity. This does not depend on the patient's age, sex, previous health, nor on fear, though it may be aggravated by ill-health, or panic, or perhaps by idiosyncrasy. There is no evidence to show that the season or weather, or the food of the bee in question, has any modifying influence. It has been alleged that lethal results are due to the entrance of the poison immediately into a vein, but this will not account for the majority of cases. The immunity enjoyed by old bee-keepers is to some extent only apparent, and is in part due to their skill in handling, for every now and again one of the fraternity is brought to the verge of death by a single sting, although on a previous occasion the stings of fifty or a hundred bees may have caused him little trouble. This points clearly to the fact that the nature of the poison causing lethal and fatal results differs from the normal secretion of the bee. The symptoms above related are not produced by the natural secretion; it is more likely that the powerful irritant poisoning of the nervous system (very comparable to the effect of snake- bites) is caused by some substance of the nature of an animal alkaloid, and that this substance is present, either as the result of an admixture from without, or as a consequence of some dis-