3 LUMBAR REGION, THE posterior part of the lumbar region is suit- able for the drainage of those wounds when necessary. Diseases.—The various swellings and morbid conditions generally which are met with in the lumbar region may be grouped as follows (but a mere enumeration of these conditions, with- out any description of their diagnosis, is all that can be given here; for full particulars the reader is referred to the articles on the subjects mentioned):— 1. Enlargement of those organs which nor- mally lie in the lumbar region, e.g. hydro- nephrosis. 2. Enlargement of organs which do not nor- mally lie in this region, but which by their enlargement appear in the region, e.g. hepatic, splenic, etc. 3. Tumours originating in the lumbar con- tents, e.g. sarcoma of kidney. 4. Tumours oi-iginating in structures lying outside the lumbar region, e.g. carcinoma and hydatid of liver, ovarian cysts. 5. Collections of fluid—serous, as in abdo- minal ascites; heemorrhagic, as in rupture of the liver and spleen; purulent, as in empyema, abscess in connection with disease of the ribs, vertebrae, bones of the pelvis, the kidney, the csecum and appendix, the spleen; fsecal, from rupture of the intestine; urinary, from rupture of the kidney, ureter, or bladder. 6. Hernia, the sac usually containing intestine or omentum, or both, and most often protruding through the triangle of Petit, or through an operation cicatrix. 7. In the cellular tissue of the lumbar region emphysema extending from the thorax, or from rupture of the intestines; urine, as the result of extravasation from rupture of the urethra; and pus, due to caries of the ribs or spine, or with no evident source of origin, this form being- met with in children, are also conditions to be borne in mind. In the walls of the lumbar region tumours— fatty and cystic—and hsematomata may be met with. Lumbricales Muscles. /6'eeFingers (^Medical and Surgical Anatomy). LumbriCOid Worms. Parasites {Nematodes, Ascaris). Lunacy. Lunacy 3 Statistics, British and Colonial. . 5 Geographical Distribution in Great Britain and Ireland ... 6 Sex, Age, and Civil Condition . . 7 Season ...... 8 Occupation ..... 8 Forms of Mental Disorder . . 9 Moral and Physical Causes . . 9 Growth of Lunacy .... 9 Lunacy Laws — Functions of Medical Practitioners . . . . .11 Certification, Visitation, etc.— England— 1. Chancery Lunatics . . .13 2. Private Patients . . . .14 3. Pauper Patients .... 14 Scotland— 4. Private and Pauper Patients . 15 5. Ciiratory Patients . . .15 Ireland— 6. Private and Pauper . . .16 Lunacy Administration . . . .16 The Insane in Private Dwellings . 16 Financial Burden of Pauper Lunacy . 18 See also Insanity (vol. iv.). Lunacy.—The lunacy of a country has a pro- found significance whether it be viewed from the standpoint of the individual or of society. In recent years, owing to allegations pointing to an alarming increase, the problem of lunacy has specially engaged the attention of the legislature, of lunacy executives, of psychologists, of statis- ticians, of sociologists, and of the Press ; and disputants of eminence have entered the field of controversy in favour of and in opposition to the allegation. Definitions of lunacy, legal and scientific, have been attempted in all ages, only to be abandoned in the light of that further knowledge vouclisafed by jurists, psychologists, and ethical writers. The difficulty of finding anything like a satisfactory definition was encountered in the eighteenth century, when lunacy was supposed to cover only typical cases of mental derange- ment and mental deficiency, and rejected un- doubted cases of insanity. How much more difficult of definition is lunacy in the end of the nineteenth and the beginning of the twentieth centuries, when by the investigation of psycho- logists and sociologists the mesh, so to speak, has been so narrowed as now to embrace not only well-marked cases of insanity and imbecility, but persons with that slight mental warp which unfits them to earn their living or to have an independent existence, and persons with manifestations of conduct not in harmony with their surroundings. There is as complete a reversal of former ideas as to what constitutes lunacy as there is in regard to the vulgar superstitions handed down from the days of witchcraft, and still held in the more remote Celtic fringes of the country regarding the connection of the moon's phases with attacks of insanity. Lunacy for all practical purposes may be defined as that state of mind which influences conduct to such a degree as to put the indi- vidual out of touch with himself or his en- vironments, or both, and to necessitate that interference by one of the various methods,