203 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF as possible overlie the tumour, it being under- stood, of course, that the skin covering the whole of the prominence of the breast must Fl8. 21.—Show's the cancerous paravascular lymphatic at the lower part of Kig. 20 more highly magnified. Above is the companion vein, while below it is the artery. always be removed. At this stage of the opera- tion, therefore, the surgeon must not concern himself whether he will be able consequently to close the wovmd. Insufficient removal of skin is a fertile cause of local recurrence where an otherwise complete operation is performed. Having made the incision, the next step is the rejiection of the large skin flaps well beyond the limits of the breast tissue, which, as we have seen, are much more extensive than was formerly supposed. The flaps should contain only just enough subcutaneous fat to prevent sloughing : otherwise some of the parenchyma and lymphatics which extend into the liga- ments of Cooper are almost certain to be left in the flaps, more particularly in spare women. In reflecting the lower and outer flap, the surgeon grasps the edge of the skin between the finger and thumb while the assistant steadies the breast; in reflecting the upper and inner flap the assistant pulls the skin upwards, the operator meanwhile putting the breast on the stretch with his left hand. The lower and outer flap is reflected as far back as the posterior fold of the axilla, and as far down as the digitations of origin of the ex- ternal oblique and the upper part of the rectus muscle; the upper and inner flap is reflected upwards to a little above the interval between the sternal and clavicular fibres of the pector- alis major, that is to say, almost up to the clavicle and inwards to the middle line of the sternum. The fascia is then divided along the anterior fold of the axilla, and dissected backwards towards the posterior fold so as to expose the axillary vein. The finger is now passed beneath the pectoralis major where it crosses the axillary vessels, and the sternal fibres of the muscle are divided close to the upper arm. Having clamped the pectoral branches of the thoracic axis as they cross tlie interval between the clavicular and sternal portions of the muscle, the latter portion, along with the breast, is with a few strokes of the knife rapidly separ- ated from the pectoralis minor and then from its costo - sternal attachments. Below and external to the pectoralis major, the deep surface of the breast is dissected off the upper part of the rectus and the digitations of the external oblique muscles, and, lastly, off' the serratus magnus, the fascia being at the same time removed. The nerve to the serratus should, if possible, be preserved. The mass, which is next separated from the latissimus dorsi, is turned aside, and the rest of the axilla is thoroughly cleared of axillary fat and glands. Before this is done the fascia is carefully removed from both surfaces of the pectoralis minor, which can then be re- tracted either upwards or downwards as desired, or the muscle itself may be removed if necessaiy. The sheath of the axillary vein should be removed, and along with it the glands in front of and below the vein, includ- ing those upon the posterior wall of the Fig. 22.—Canceruus efferent paravascular lymphatics accompanying the blood-vessels and nerves which occupy the interfascicular connective tissue of the pectoralis major. A few fibres of the muscle are seen cut transversely at the upper and lower limits of the field. axilla. The subscapular nerve may generally be spared. In cleaning the posterior wall, the glands and fat which extend upwards behind the axillary vessels towards and into the posterior triangle of the neck must be followed up and