MENINGES OF THE CEREBRUM 307 carrying the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle. The fluid in the ventricles is, probably, mainly of the nature of a secretion by the choroid plexuses, although some writers still maintain that it is simply a transudation from the capillaries of the surrounding nervous sub- stance. This fluid is important as constituting a water-bed on which the brain rests, and a water-cushion surrounding and protecting the spinal cord. The fluid is being constantly pro- duced, and probably this production is much more active than is usually supposed. It must therefore be steadily drained away from the ventricles, and as we have seen, the only exit from the ventricles is by the foramina on the roof of the fourth ventricle. Through these the fluid passes into the subarachnoid spaces at the base of the brain and surrounding the cord, and thence it exudes along the lymphatic channels in the sheaths of all the outgoing nerves, cerebral and spinal, and also along the lymphatics surrounding the larger blood-vessels of the brain and cord. There are, however, other paths by which the fluid may pass from the subarachnoid spaces into the general venous circulation. We have seen the importance attached in this respect by Ford Robertson to the perivascular canals of the dura mater, through which the fluid may pass into the veins of the skull and dura. Again, Leonard Hill lays stress on its passage through channels in the walls of the venous sinuses ; and, lastly, the fluid may pass through the Pacchionian bodies into the sinuses, especially the superior longitudinal sinus. These bodies are simply villous outgrowths of the arachnoid, lying mainly near a sinus of the dura in the well- known depressions on the inside of the cranial bones, and separated from the sinuses by a thin layer of dura, through which it is proved experi- mentally that serous fluid can pass from the subarachnoid spaces into the sinuses of the dura. It is very improbable that much, if any, fluid can be absorbed from the ventricles by the choroid plexuses or veins. It is obvious, therefore, that as the fluid in the lateral and third ventricles has only one means of exit, viz., by the aque- duct of Sylvius and the fourth ventricle, and thence through the foramina of Magendie and Luschka, obstruction of this drainage channel at any part must play a most important role in the production of internal hydrocephalus. Thus, in meningitis especially affecting the posterior part of the base of the brain, these foramina are very liable to get blocked up by in- flammatory exudate, or, still more, by sub- sequent adhesions, and, therefore, as we should expect, internal hydrocephalus to a greater or less extent forms an almost constant feature in those cases. The part generally assigned to obstruction of the veins of Galen (e.g. from the pressure of a tumour) in the production of hydrocephalus has a very doubtful existence; in many, if not all such cases, there is also obstruction of the drainage channel, especially the narrow aqueduct of Sylvius, and this last is probably the important factor. The connection of the pia arachnoid with the cerebral cortex, partly vascular, partly fibrous, is so close that it is not remarkable that inflammation of the membrane generally im- plicates the surface of the brain, so that one should speak rather of a meningo-encephalitis than of simple meningitis. Vascular Disturbances 1. Hyperemia.—The first stage of a menin- gitis is constituted by congestion of the mem- branes, their vessels being dilated and engorged, while the membranes present a rosy hue. The poison of some of the specific fevers, notably pneumonia and typhoid fever, may cause intense engorgement of the membranes and thereby produce symptoms indistinguishable from those of a cortical meningitis. Active congestion of the membranes, occurring as an independent condition, has been assumed to account for some cases, chiefly in children, in which there are acute general cerebral symptoms (headache, delirium, convulsions, coma), and which end sometimes in recovery, sometimes in death. Such a condition, if it is an independent entity, is probably indistinguishable from menin- gitis clinically, and the treatment will be the same. Simple congestion of the dura is often found post-mortem in the insane, but it is by no means cei'tain that it is common during life. It is specially noticeable and constant in cases of general paralysis dying in a congestive attack. 2. Meningeal HiEMORRHAGE.—Blood may be extravasated (1) outside the dura mater (ex- tradural or subcranial htemorrhage); (2) into the subdural space (subdural hsemorrhage); or (3) into the substance of the pia arachnoid (subarachnoid htemorrhage). Etiology.—The most common cause of menin- geal haemorrhage is trauma, a fall or blow on the head generally causing fracture of the skull; the effusion may be outside or beneath the dura mater. Extradural ha3morrhage is generally due to rupture of a meningeal artery —in the vast majority of cases the middle meningeal artery, especially its anterior branch. It may, however, come from the middle menin- geal veins, the veins of the diploe or the large sinuses. Subdural traumatic haemorrhage is generally due to rupture of a vessel of the pia, especially the pial veins as they enter the superior longitudinal sinus. Meningeal haemor- rhage, occurring during birth from compression of the skull in difficult labour, is generally believed to be the cause, in most cases, of birth palsy {vide " Paralysis").