LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 20 Clinical Features—Complications (contd.)— Uro-genital ..... 43 Nervous ..... 44 Locomotory ..... 45 Integumentary .... 45 Clinical Varieties and Progress— Factors determining . . .46 Varieties . . . . .47 Acute— Miliary . . . .47 Broncho-pneumonic . . 47 Pneumonic . . . .47 Subacute . . . . .47 Chronic . . . . .47 Terminations .... 48 Diagnosis 48 Prognosis 50 Treatment— I. Prophylactic .... 52 A. Public Measures ... 53 B. Private Measures ... 54 II. Therapeutic. . . . .56 A. Measures for increasing Re- sisting Power— (1) Fresh Air ... 56 (2) Rest .... 57 (3) Activity ... 57 (4) Dietary ... 57 (5) Skin Hygiene . . 58 (6) Medication ... 59 Sanatoi'ia .... 59 Climate .... 60 B. Measures for attaching Bacillus more directly— Specific Line . . .61 C. Measiires for Relief of Symp- toms and Complications-— Pain .... 62 Cough .... 62 Expectoration, etc. . . 62 Introductory General Description.—Pulmonary tuberculosis is the term commonly used to describe the phenomena of tuberculous disease when the lung is the chief seat of invasion by the tubercle bacillus. The phenomena are not, however, limited to the lung. As that organ is affected, symptoms manifest themselves which are refer- able to the lung, such as cough, expectoration, dyspnoea. But along with those there are usually present, in greater or less degree, mani- festations of constitutional iuvolvement, which have much significance. The latter are often conspicuously in evidence when symptoms which might be more definitely referable to the lung are less certainly determinable. Indeed it may be said that in proportion as the clinical ex- pression of constitutional involvement is present, even though lung symptoms be slight, the out- look in pulmonary tuberculosis becomes grave. Variation in manifestation, both anatomical and clinical, is observable according to the avenue by which the tubercle bacillus reaches the lung. Three main avenues are to be recog- nised. Firstly, the tubercle bacillus may arrive through the respiratory passages by means of inhalation. This is the commonest mode of entrance. Secondly, the tubercle bacillus may arrive by way of the blood-stream. In this case, the tubercle bacillus, which has previously been present in some organ or tissue, has obtained access to the circulation and is swept along in the blood-stream to distant organs. In such circumstances it is probable that both lungs will be involved rapidly in widespread fashion. Such a dissemination of tubercle is not likely to be confined to the lung, but forms part of a generally disseminated miliary tuberculosis. Thirdly, the tubercle bacillus may be introduced or passed on from point to point by way of the lymph-stream. In this way the lung may become infected secondarily from tuberculous bronchial glands, caries of vertebrae, and the like. In this way, too, the tuberculous process, when once established in the lungs, advances. The vast significance of pulmonary tubercu- losis may be suitably emphasised by the citation of a few figures. Taking a wide statistic, we may reckon that for every 100,000 persons living, nearly 250 die from pulmonary tubercu- losis, or 2'5 per 1000 of the population. Some observers prefer to reckon the proportion as 3 per 1000. Much depends on the degree of exactness of diagnosis and post-mortem returns, and this varies greatly in different countries. If we limit our inquiry to present conditions in the United Kingdom we find that the numbers stand more nearly at 2 per 1000. It is a re- markable and reassuring fact, to which we shall return presently, that the mortality returns for the past twenty-five years show a diminution of fully one-third. This is the more significant when we recollect that during the same period greater attention has been paid to diagnosis. The mortality from pulmonary tuberculosis, compared with the total mortality, may be stated at 2*5 : 20. This calculation errs prob- ably in the direction of minimising i-ather than exaggerating the death-rate from pulmonary tuberculosis. The latter is frequently greater than the mortality from all the zymotic fevers collectively. It should be noted that in the present statement reference is made solely to the frequency and mortality of pulmonary tuberculosis. If along with the latter other forms of tuberculosis be included, the figures would be proportionately much increased. Pulmonary tuberculosis is an universal disease. It occurs in both sexes and at all ages. It is found in all countries and climates. It is a disease of both sexes equally. A wide statistic goes to show that the frequency of incidence in the two sexes is almost identical. The state- ment is subject to the correction that dispropor- tion between the sexes may occur in different