58 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS The dietary should vary according to the character and stage of the disease. As a general rule, it is a wise arrangement to allow five meals in the day—or rather, three meals of proximately equal value, with two snacks at suitably separated intervals. Thus, if breakfast be at 9 a.ji., luncheon at 1 p.m., and dinner at 7 P.M., a light snack may be allowed at 7 a.m. and 4 p.m. It is unwise in such case to allow further extras of any kind between meals. If the patient sleep well, it is better not to give anything by night. If, on the contrary, he be wakeful, and his wakefulness is not the ex- pression of gastro-intestinal disturbance, a cup of thin meat tea or diluted warm milk may be allowed through the night. Sometimes the administration of a glass of boiling water is even better. The three chief meals should include a sufficiency of nitrogenous foods, fats, and carbohydrates. The food must be nicely prepared and daintily served, and varied as much as possible. Breakfast inay include porridge (preferably made with half milk, and boiled for forty-five minutes), cream, milk, toasted bread, plenty of butter, eggs, mild bacon, well-hung underdone meat, raw meat rissoles, fish of different kinds, with tea or coffee well diluted with milk. Luncheon and dinner —for the two meals should be similar in character—may include a cup of soup (to which, just before serving, may be added a little raw pounded meat), fish of various kinds with simple butter-sauce, well-hung underdone steak, roast beef, or other meat, chicken, game, farinaceous puddings, stewed fruit, cream, butter, and cheese. The matter of stimulants must be decided in each case according to state of pulse, temperature, and custom. Often alcohol is unnecessary ; frequently it is most helpful. Thus ^ss-Sj whisky added to a small tumbler of milk is serviceable. Or the equiva- lent alcohol may be given in the form of sound wine (hock, burgundy, sherry, port, champagne, according to circumstances). It is commonly a mistake to give much fluid at meal-times. If there be a tendency to thirst, better let the patient have a tumbler of hot water while resting half an hour before meals or three- quarters of an hour after meals. It is a mistake to insist on two or three glassfuls of milk along with meals. It is a different matter if, for any reason, the patient be on a milk dietary {vide infra). The snacks at 7 a.>[. and 4 p.m. may suitaljly consist of a cup of tea well diluted with cream or milk, or infused in milk, and buttered toasted stale bread, or a glass of hot milk (diluted one-third with boiling water or barley water), perhaps with a table-spoonful of rum or whisky, or an egg flip. The kind of meal must depend on the patient. Frequently it is best to confine the patient largely to a dietary of underdone meat, butter, toasted bread, and milk, with perhaps a little stimulant, limiting the amount of vegetable and farinaceous foods strictly. Thus breakfast may consist of raw-meat rissoles with toast and butter and a glass of warm milk; lunch and dinner, of lightly grilled mince or tender steak, buttered toast, and stewed fruit, and a glass of milk or wine as above. Such a dietary fre- quently appears to start healthy nutrition as nothing else will. It may be necessary to keep a patient for weeks on such a dietary. With improved condition the menu may be more varied. The alternation for a day or two of a more purely vegetable dietary, including, e.g., lentil or pease soup, vegetable purges of different sorts, is often of benefit. The use of milk, to some extent, is generally serviceable; but it may be overdone. If the patient relishes an ordinary dietary, it is a mistake to press milk further than has been indicated above; to do so means, perhaps, to upset the gastro-intestinal functions. In pro- portion as the capacity for a varied dietary is wanting, more milk may be allowed. Even then it is sometimes better to omit milk alto- gether for a day or two, and push a raw-meat dietary. In presence of pronounced gastro- intestinal irritability or disease, it is right to make trial of a more rigid milk dietary. The milk may be exhibited variously, as in other fevers. Commonly it is better diluted with boiling water, barley water, soda or lime water, according to circumstances. It may be com- bined with eggs, alcohol, etc., or it may itself be fermented in the form of koumiss. In other cases it is advantageously peptonised. (5) Skin Hygiene.—The state of the skin must be looked to, and its functional activity both as heat regulator and excretory organ restored. To this end clothing and bathing are to be considered. The clothing, both day and night, should be as light as is compatible with sufficient warmth. Overclothing, so frequently sanctioned, must be stopped. It is laughable, were it not so un- physiological, to count the number of layers one has to peel off many patients before reaching the chest wall. Such absurd clothing removes the last chance for the skin as a heat-regulating mechanism. At no season should more than a single flannel shirt and an under woollen garment be commonly permitted, in addition to the upper suit or dress. The clothing should be loose. In women, corsets should be practically dis- carded. Chest-protectors and swaddling-bands of cotton wadding, so frequently seen, are to be discredited entirely. By night the same general principles apply. Bathing of the skin has a double value : it both cleanses and gives tone to the tissues. In all cases it should be done once or twice daily. In conditions of great weakness we may be content with sponging and dry rubbing of the surface. In the larger number of cases, it is