MENINGITIS, TUBERCULOUS AND POSTERIOR BASIC 322 Symptoms. — The onset of posterior basic meningitis is almost always acute. The first symptoms are visually vomiting and head re- traction ; in some cases a convulsion or sudden screaming ushers in the disease. Head retraction, if not the first symptom, is usually present within a few days after the onset, and throughout the disease continues a prominent feature. The degree of retraction varies considerably, not only in individual cases, but also in the same case from day to day; it is sometimes so extreme that the occiput almost touches the upper dorsal spines, and in cases where the opisthotonos is not limited to the cervical spine, the occipiit may nearly touch the sacrum. These extreme cases, however, are uncommon. Much more often the head is drawn back so that there is two to three fingers' breadth between the occiput and upper dorsal spines. In very rare cases head re- traction is absent throughout the illness. Fulness of the anterior fontanelle is usually an early symptom, and may be of considerable value in diagnosis. The fulness at this stage, however, is less than at a later period when increasing hydrocephalus is present. After the first few days the infant lies quietly on its side, with the head drawn back, taking- little or no interest in its surroundings. Any attempt to push the head forward makes the child cry, and for this reason the infant will cry if made to lie on its back. Except at the onset of the disease, and occa- sionally just before death, general clonic con- vulsions are uncommon, but some rigidity is very frequent; the limbs are usually extended, or only very slightly flexed; the legs are spas- modically adducted, whilst the shoulders are strongly retracted, and the forearms often superpronated so that the palms of the clenched hands look outwards. Paralysis of limbs has only very rarely been observed. Champing movements of the lower jaw and sucking movements are common; and often there is grinding of the teeth as in other cere- bral affections. After a few weeks, sometimes earlier, the eyes have a staring appearance which is very noticeable and which seems to be due chiefly to spasmodic retraction of the upper eyelid. The vacancy of the stare may be due to actual blind- ness, which is present in about one-third of the cases; this blindness may supervene as early as one week after the onset of the disease, but probably more often is not present until at least the end of the third or fourth week of the ill- ness. It would seem to be entirely central in origin ; it is not dependent on any optic neuritis or atrophy. With this blindness the pupils react, though sluggishly, to light. Optic neu- ritis is very exceptional at any period of pos- terior basic meningitis. Strabismus is absent altogether in nearly half the cases, and even when present is rarely so marked as in tuber- culous meningitis. Paralysis of other cranial nerves is rare. Deafness has been noticed in a few cases. There is little evidence of any real hypersesthesia in most of the cases. During the later stages of the disease the tendon-jerks are sometimes increased. Constipation is a less marked feature than in tuberculous meningitis. Vomiting is usually more persistent than in the tuberculous disease. Wasting occurs in almost all cases; and where the disease is prolonged, emaciation may be extreme. The pulse throughout the illness is generally more rapid than normal, but shows no special tendency to irregularity. The respiration in the later stage often shows a rhythmical character, to which the name of " cyclical breathing " has been given. Its special feature consists in the alternation of long pauses with series of rapid respirations. It lacks the gradual rise and fall in the depth of the respirations which charac- terises the Cheyne-Stokes type of breathing. The temperature is almost always raised at the onset, and may remain continuously high for a week or more. It then gradually falls, and may be normal during the rest of the illness ; in very chronic cases with much emacia- tion it is often subnormal. In some cases, especially the more acute, there is irregular pyrexia of an intermittent or remittent type throughout the disease. A fatal termination is often preceded by a subnormal temperature or hyperpyrexia. Skin eruptions are rarely seen with posterior basic meningitis. At the onset of the disease labial herpes or a more generalised morbilliform rash has been observed, and in the later stage —perhaps chiefly in the more acute cases—a dusky mottled erythema has been seen. The occurrence of rashes, however, would seem to be miich less frequent in this disease than in the " cerebro-spinal meningitis " of later life. Complications.—Hydrocephalus is so frequent a result of posterior basic meningitis that it might almost be considered a symptom of the disease. In almost all cases which last longer than three or four weeks, this complication is present in sufficient degree to be noticeable clinically. An early sign of increasing intra- cranial pressure is the downward turning of the eyes so that the sclerotic is seen above the cornea, which is partly covered by the lower lid. The fontanelle also shows increased bul- ging, and careful and repeated measurements of the head show distinct increase in size, which may be obvious on inspection if the child lives for several months. Occasionally a curious form of periarthritis, and much more rarely arthritis, is seen in this disease. A dusky swelling appears about one joint or several; suppuration appears imminent.