MALARIA 126 water, in which were found also larvae of Culex. Although Culex is not a malaria-bearing mosquito, it must be remembered that it may serve as the intermediate host of Filaria FIO. 12.—Female Culex. nocturna, and is therefore a source of danger in places where that blood parasite occurs. The Mosquito Cycle of the Malaria Parasite.— A number of Anopheles, which have been bred in captivity, and protected from every source of Fig. 13.—Head of female Anopheles. infection, are made to bite an individual whose blood is known to contain gametocytes—for example, malarial crescents. The mosquitoes are then killed at short intervals and examined. The following changes may be seen :— If one be killed a few minutes after haustella- tion, and the blood contained in the middle intestine examined, certain phenomena already described will be observed, namely, the change of the crescents into oval bodies, and then into flagellating and non-flagellating spheres. The next step in development in human malaria has been inferred from an- alogy. In pigeons and certain other birds infected with Halteridium, the flagella may be seen to break away from the hyaline spheres and approach non-flagellating granular spheres. The latter, presently, pro- trude a small bud-like process, at which point a flagellum, straight- ening itself and becoming rigid, and attacking as it were the sphere, suddenly eff'ects an entrance. The flagellum at first causes some agita- tion of the contents of the sphere; the disturbance, however, soon sub- sides. Not more than one flagel- lum can gain an entrance into any given granular sphere. After a few minutes the now fertilised sphere becomes elongated and pointed at one extremity ; the pigment which it contains collects at the broader end, and the little body becomes actively motile. It exhibits con- siderable power of penetration, piercing any red cell that it may encounter. This body is called the travelling vermicule or zygote (see Fig. 15, a); in Halteridium it is shaped like a broad spear- head. To return to human malaria, stained specimens of infected Anopheles have been pre- pared, which show elongated bodies shaped like a flat nail, near to and in the epithelial coating of the wall of the middle intestine, and which were evi- dently passing to- wards the deeper layers. These were doubtless the tra- velling vermicules of human malaria. If infected mosqui- toes be killed on the second day after haustellation, and the wall of the middle intestine be examined, pig- mented spheres about 7 yu, to 8 /X Fig. 14.—Head of male Anopheles. in diameter will be seen lying between the muscular fibres. If infected mosquitoes be examined on subsequent and suc- cessive days the further changes in the zygote can be traced (see Fig. 15, b). It increases rapidly in size; tiny masses of chromatin from the fragmented nucleus become diff"used in its