MEASLES disease. Although well-authenticated instances of its propagation through the indirect agency of infected articles, such as clothes, books, toys, and furniture, are recorded from time to time, the contagium of measles does not lend itself to this method of transmission, as its activity is rapidly destroyed by natural agencies. It is only under conditions of aerial stagnation, when protected from the katalytic action of direct light, that fomites are likely to retain their infectivity for any length of time. On this account it is usually jjracticable to limit the spread of the disease under circumstances in which it has been possible to segregate every person who has already become infected. Un- fortunately, this is rarely practicable, because the disease is highly infectious in the early pre-eruptive stage. Consequently, when the conditions are favourable to intimate personal contact, as is the case in schools, numbers of the children are likely to have become infected before the presence of measles has been even suspected. With the possible exception of whooping- cough, measles is probably the most infectious of the specific fevers. Its extreme infectivity is well illustrated by the epidemics in the Fiji and Faroe Islands already referred to. In a localised outbreak in a small village near Tiibingen, Dr. Pfeilsticker reports that 185 children were attacked out of a total of 196, who had not previously had the disease. At a children's party given by a friend of the writer, 21 out of 22 children who were present contracted measles from one staying in the house, in whom the attack did not declare itself until the following morning. Out of the 22 children, the only one who escaped had previously suffered from the disease. Such instances might be multiplied. The question as to whether the compulsory notification of measles can be expected to control its spread amongst an urban popiilation has been a source of considerable discussion amongst medical oflicers of health. Without the co-operation of the school authorities, it is clear that any attempts in this direction must be futile, so great are the facilities for the transmission of the disease during school attendance. However, by the rigid enforcement of the following measures it has been found practi- cable to exercise considerable control over the extension of the disease. (1) Compulsory notification of the disease by the medical attendant and by the house- holder. (2) Prompt notification to the sanitary authority by the schoolmaster of the occur- rence of a case amongst the scholars, and by the sanitary authority to the schoolmaster of any case occurring in the homes of any of the scholars, in order that all children living in that hoiise may be excluded from attending school. (3) The immediate closure of the elementary schools and the exclusion of the younger children from the mixed schools, should a rise in the number of cases suggest its expediency. (4) Eemoval to hospital of, at any rate, the earlier cases. Reciprocity of action between the sanitary and scholastic authorities is essential to success. During the holiday seasons, reliance must be placed on compulsory notification and prompt isolation, together with the inculcation of common-sense precautions amongst the parents. Unfortunately, the indifference to measles, which is so general amongst the people, especially in the northern towns, and their ignorance of its dangers, are facts which seriously militate against the success of any attempt to effectually control its extension. The infectivity of the measles patient is probably greatest during the later pre-eruptive stage, and declines rapidly during defervescence. It is to the mucous discharges so characteristic of the disease that the contagium of measles appears to attach itself especially, although the transient branny desquamation which usually follows on the subsidence of the rash is probably in some degree infectious. Isolation must be maintained for at least a clear fortnight, dating from the disappearance of the eruption; at the expiration of which, after having been thoroughly bathed, the patient may be allowed to again mix with others, provided no sign of catarrh or peeling can be detected. The supervention of broncho-pneumonia is not only competent to prolong a patient's infectivity, but it is liable to spread to others with disastrous result. A true relapse of measles is exceedingly rare, though second attacks are not very uncommon. In a good many instances in which a second attack of measles has been recorded, it is more than likely that either it or the primary attack was, in reality, rotheln. Incubation. — The period of incubation in measles, considering its length, is remarkably constant, viz., ten or eleven days in most cases. In other words, the eruption may be expected to appear on the fourteenth day after exposure to infection, and it is not very often found to vary more than twenty-four hours one side of the fortnight. Although in the majority of cases the incubation is ten or eleven days, instances are recorded which show that it may be as short as six or even five days, or, on the other hand, as long as fifteen. In cases where the incubation stage is unduly prolonged the eruption may often be observed to follow very quickly on the first signs of invasion, although the converse apparently does not hold good. Course.—The attack usually begins some- what suddenly. The child is noticed to be fretful; it refuses its food, and presents the