87 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—PARASITIC AFFECTIONS pneumonic consolidation and often with cavity formation, and the patients expectorate spores and mycelial threads often mixed with blood. The following coexistent diseases have been noted in recorded cases as occurring with aspergillosis :—Emphysema; chronic bronchitis, and bronchiectasis; pulmonary tuberculosis, acute, subacute, and chronic; diabetes mellitus, and empyema; but the great majority are tubercular. Our knowledge of the post-mortem appear- ances of aspergillosis of the lungs is very insufficient. It is a form of pseudo-tuberculosis; the bronchial walls are much thickened, and in the pneumonic areas there are little masses of fungi, not unlike actinomycosis, while there may be the most extensive destruction of lung tissue. There is always active phagocytosis in the affected areas. In the so-called primary or endemic form occurring in pigeon-trainers and hair-combers, the lung condition induced by the fungus is either a process like chronic pulmonary tuberculosis, with cavity formation, or bronchitis or bronchiectasis, with later, pulmonary cirrhosis. The leading clinical features of the sporadic or secondary form are hsemoptysis (slight or severe), loss of appetite, and dyspepsia; a dry cough, with later purulent blood-stained ex- pectoration, and more or less rapid emaciation. The physical signs of cavity formation are easily distinguished, and are found situated in much the same locality as tubercular vomicae. Hectic temperature often begins, and the patient may either gradually recover or succumb to the disease. In the second or so-called primary form, the disease begins with bronchitis; the cough is often extremely severe, and may be asthmatic in type ; the sputum is frothy and watery. In time the cirrhotic process begins often at the apices, and the bronchitis may subside. In both these varieties spores, conidia, and mycelial threads may be found in considerable amount in the sputum, and the spores are often seen in bronchial cells. Very frequently the tubercle bacillus attacks the affected lung if it has not done so before, and rapidly aids the process of destruction. How the fungus becomes arrested in its development is a very difficult problem to solve. The fungus manufactures an enormous amount of carbonic acid gas; but it is questionable whether that fact will help as much, although so large may the quantity of carbonic acid gas evolved from the fungus be, that certain vege- tables or grain, if covered with growing fungus and stored in an unventilated room, have been known to cause asphyxia if anyone suddenly breathed the vitiated atmosphere. Lucet has found a pyrexial agent in the fungus ; but the accumulated experience of cases of the disease throws doubt on this statement, as there is no rise of temperature until ulceration has com- menced. Phagocytosis may be the salvation of the sufferer, with an improved resistance to the fungus and its spores; but more than this we cannot assert. The diagnosis is generally dependent on finding the spores, conidia, and mycelial thi'eads in the sputum, and in a very few rare cases detecting the fungus growing on tongue, tonsils, or pharynx (Wheaton's case). It, of course, stands to reason that the spores of such a common and universal fungus occur in both nose and throat of many healthy persons, as well as in those affected (Renon), and their occurrence in the outer ear (Siebenmann) has been definitely proved. The prognosis depends much on the individual case under consideration. The addition of the tubercle bacillus renders the patient's chance of recovery more remote. A few cases recover; but our knowledge is still too circumscribed, especially of secondary or sporadic cases. The treatment is partly prophylactic, and con- sists in freedom from dust in the work-rooms where the danger exists and the wearing of suitable respirators. Possibly, or rather we should say probably, a healthy man can and does inhale spores of Aspergillus fumigatus occa- sionally without ill effect, but any pulmonary lesion means more risk of infection. Antiseptic inhalations have been recom- mended, such as terebene, oil of peppermint, cinnamon, etc., but they are of most service in the ulcerative stage. Iodide of potash is also recommended for the bronchitic type of cases; but the main line of treatment is fresh air and attention to general health, with the alleviation of symptoms as they rise. Distomum Ringeri or Westermanni,—This is a distomum which causes haemoptysis, limited in its distribution to certain districts in Japan, Corea, and Formosa, where it attacks many of the inhabitants, although it has been found in some animals, such as the tiger, cat, and dog, over a much more extensive area. The distomum is 8 to 10 mm. in length by 5 to 6 ram. in breadth, is reddish-brown in colour, and in general appearance is much like the other members of the genus to which it belongs. The ova, about "1 mm. in diameter, are oval and of a brownish colour. The mature parasite is found in incapsulated spaces under the pleura; these spaces communicate with a bronchus by which the ova escape. Some twelve to twenty of these mature distoma may occur in the lung, although they may occasionally be found widely distributed in other organs. The clinical features are cough, with brown- ish-coloured sputum containing the ova and many recurring haemorrhages, which are quite inexplicable. Prognosis depends much on the number of distoma present and the strength of the patient.