82 •VASCULAR DISOEDERS LUNGS, DISEASES OF— cular lung, or where malignant infiltration is responsible for the condition, may add no special clinical feature other than increased dyspnoea and cyanosis especially on any exer- tion, and this alone may suggest to the physi- cian that thrombosis has taken place. The clinical features closely resemble infarction from embolism, and may be quite indistinguishable from it, and obviously little can be said as re- gards prognosis because so many varied degrees of thrombosis occur. The treatment as a rule is entirely preventive. Ammonia, ether, and general stimulants naturally suggest themselves to the physician as likely to avert thrombosis where it is to be dreaded. Once it has occurred, oxygen inhalations may aid the unaffected lung to overtake the extra call made upon it and opium might be given to allay pain and calm the feelings of dread and anxiety which greatly add to the patient's suiTerings. Pulmonary Embolism This is a very common condition wherever the right auricle becomes greatly enlarged and blood tends to clot in its appendix. It occurs, therefore, in any disease which induces marked enlargement of the right heart, and especially mitral stenosis. A bit of clot broken off enters the pulmonary artery and becomes impacted, generally where a small branch, which has per- mitted of its passage, divides into two smaller branches which are too narrow. The embolus may or may not contain septic organisms; it generally, as in the kind of case just referred to, does not. The following are the common sources and varieties of pulmonary emboli:— (1) Emboli from the heart, and especially from the appendix of the right auricle, and much more rarely from the right ventricle. Very occasionally, and probably where the right ventricle is too large or acting too weakly to admit of being properly emptied with each systole, clots form between the columnte carnese ; also where endocarditis exists in that chamber, and where clots form over an area of cardiac softening (infarction), portions of clot may be- come detached and form emboli. Lastly, cardiac emboli may result from endocarditis with vege- tations, simple or ulcerative, affecting either the tricuspid or pulmonary cusps. This is rare on the right side of the head, at least as a primary lesion, although more common secondary to endocarditis of the aortic or mitral valves ; but bits of clot may in such cases be detached from the vegetations, especially if they are ulcerating, and pulmonary emboli will result. (2) Where thrombosis, simple or septic, occurs in any of the veins of the body, part of the clot may be dislodged and form an embolus. Such travelling emboli may take origin in phlebitis, of such frequent occurrence in the veins of the legs in typhoid fever, anaemia, and many debili- tating diseases, or merely as the result of vari- cose veins. In the puerperium in women clots may be dislodged from uterine or pelvic veins ; and in middle-ear disease the lateral sinus may be plugged with clot frequently septic. These are among the commonest examples of throm- bosis in veins which may give rise to emboli. (3) A bit of clot may be displaced from the proximal part of the pulmonary artery and block a distant branch. This is a rare result of atheroma of the pulmonary artery, and some- times, as in one case of ulcerative endocarditis seen by the author, when a communication was established by ulceration between the aorta and the pulmonary artery, some vegetations pro- jected into the lumen of the pulmonary artery, and pulmonary embolism resulted from a portion of clot being broken off and swept into the pul- monary circulation. Rarely, also, may tumours perforate either a branch of the pulmonary artery or one of the systemic veins, and allow an embolus either of broken-off tumour or else clot to reach the lung. (4) Fat emboli blocking the capillaries rather than larger pulmonary arteries may result from fracture of a bone, or an extensive subcutaneous wound, and more rarely in diabetes mellitus where a lipsemic condition of the blood some- times exists. (5) Air emboli may result from venesection of the jugular vein in the neck, or the entrance of air by some means into the general venous circulation. This may cause sudden death, or if in smaller amount, it greatly interferes with the right ventricle in its action, causing great dilatation of that chamber and generally eventual death. (6) Hydatid cysts from rupture of a parent cyst have in very exceptional cases formed emboli. With so many varied sources of emboli the exact mode of blocking of a branch of the pul- monary artery will depend on the shape of the clot. Slowly formed emboli can sometimes be re- cognised by their stratified appearance ; and the presence of septic organisms invariably leads to suppurative changes. There is always a con- siderable amount of both distal and proximal thrombosis, the latter extending to the nearest patent branch. The block may be permanent, or the vessel may be reopened after organisation by tunnelling of the clot. Generally the walls of the vessel become thickened, and sometimes, although rarely, the vessel is dilated beyond the obstruction. The result of a pulmonary embolism varies greatly. Ordinary aseptic emboli, as in a case of mitral stenosis, form hgemorrhagic infarctions. The wedge-shaped area of lung denoting the domain of the blocked artery has its base at the