MEDICINE, FORENSIC 254 abdomen. Such people may be able to walk into hospital, and yet be siiflFering from rupture of the liver or intestines at the time. The liver is the organ which is most commonly ruptured in great violence, such as a fall from a height, as well as from slighter forms of violence, and the rupture may be complete through the whole organ, or merely a superficial fissure. After the liver, the spleen is most liable to suffer. Naturally any disease of these organs tends to increase their liability to rupture, and ap- parently the spleen may rupti;re spontaneously without there being any history of violence whatsoever. Ruptures of the stomach result most com- monly from disease, and are comparatively rare as a result of violence. Ruptures of the small intestines are much more common than similar injuries of the large intestine. The injury is most commonly found in the ileum; but any part of the small gut, including the duodenum, may be ruptured even by a simple blow. The whole circumference of the gut may be divided in such cases, while not only may there be no external sign of injury, but the person may walk about, and even at- tempt to continvie at work for some time after- wards. In all cases of rupture of the intestine from alleged violence careful examination must be made for any trace of disease from which it might have resulted. Ruptures of the bladder are more commonly a result of indirect violence, but may also occur from a kick or during a struggle, if the bladder is full. The latter are usiially intraperitoneal and situated at the fundus. This organ may rupture spontaneously, as a result of disease of the walls and from over- distension due to strictiire or paralysis. Rupture of the kidney always betokens great violence, as also does injury of the pancreas ; both these organs being well protected by sur- rounding structures. Fractures. — Of chief importance, medico- legally, are fractures of the skull. These may be the result of a direct blow, or of a fall against the ground or some hard object; or fracture may result from transmitted force, as in a fall from a height, where the person lands upon the feet or buttocks. Fracture does not always occur at the seat of violence, but may take place at a point in the skull directly op- posite by co7itre coup. When violence is inflicted upon the skull by means of a weapon of small striking area, such as a hammer-head or a bullet, a strictly localised depressed fracture may result, corresponding in size and shape to the instrument which produced it, although usually it is found in such cases that, while the fractiire in the outer table of bone may corre- spond in size, the inner table is injured over a much greater area. Such fractures, except where the bone is very thin, betoken great force ; with a less amount of force, the fracture tends to be more diffused and irregular. Frac- tures of the skull, caused by falls, or blows with objects of large striking area, run, as a rule, parallel to the axis of compression. When the head is supported on one side, as, for example, by the ground, and the blow is received upon the other side, the skull, being elastic, is compressed, and bursts, as it were, at the eqviator, the fractures running from here to the two poles of compression. In a blow on the side of the head, therefore, the fracture would commence at the vertex or base and run up to either side. When the head is unsupported the fracture commences at the seat of violence, and runs towards the base or vertex in the direction parallel to that of the force. Difficulty will always arise in deciding whether a fracture may not have been produced by an accidental fall, and the possibility of this mode of production must generally be admitted, un- less the contrary is strongly indicated by the appearance of any external marks of injury, or from the extent and nature of the fractures. It is quite possible for fracture of the skull to occur as the result of a fall upon level ground; but in all such cases attention should be directed to the thickness of the bone and existence of any special fragility—the result of disease. Some skulls are preternaturally thin and more liable to fracture; others may be specially thick, and the probability of fracture by a simple fall is therefore diminished. Fracture of the skull, even of a compound nature, with destruction of brain matter, is not inconsistent with consciousness and power of locomotion. A not infrequent result of simple fracture of the skull is compression of the brain due to rupture of a branch of the middle meningeal artery. It may also occur without fracture. The typical history in such cases (they are very liable to be unrecognised at first) is as follows :—A man receives a blow on the head, or falls while under the influence of drink ; he is stunned for a few seconds, and ultimately goes home; complains of slight headache and drowsi- ness, but is otherwise quite well. He goes to bed, is found to be sleeping soundly and snoring in the course of a short time. Next morning he is discovered dead in bed, and on post-mortem examination a large clot of blood is found be- tween the dura mater and skull. His supposed deep sleep and snoring were really coma, with stertorous breathing; and careful examination would have shown that he was quite insensible, with a slow pulse and absence of pupil reaction. In post-mortem examinations of such cases always note the state of the vessels, since disease will increase their liability to rupture, and this point will be raised for the defence in support of a plea that only slight violence was used, or that the rupture was spontaneous. Haemorrhages on the surface of the brain are