489 MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE decade of life. Many authors describe it with that variety known as the facio-scapulo-humeral type. But although they are closely allied, it has seemed to me that this form does in its most typical form possess characters which warrant a separate description. These may be briefly stated as follows:—(i.) the absence of affection of the face, (ii.) the occurrence of hypertrophy, and (iii.) the age of incidence, i.e. during the second decade of life. The disease is a familial one and affects both sexes alike. Symptoms.—^The weakness commonly begins in the arms, the shoulder-blades may be noticed to stand out and the arms to become thin; the muscles which are the most markedly affected are the biceps, triceps, pectoralis major, latis- simus dorsi, trapezius, rhomboids, serratus magnus, and supinator longus, while the del- toids, supra- and infra-spinati often appear abnormally large. The muscles of the forearm and the hand are usually well developed, and the contrast between the upper and fore arm is very striking. The muscles of the neck and face are normally developed. The muscles of the thigh and pelvic girdle are generally affected somewhat later than those of the arm, but the atrophy of the quadriceps extensor, the biceps femoris, semitendinosus, semimem- branosus, adductors, and the glutei is very considerable, and the appearance of a patient affected with this disease is very striking, for the thighs and upper arm are very thin, while the legs below the knee and forearm are well developed. Sensation is unaffected. The elec- trical excitability of the muscle is diminished, but there is no reaction of degeneration. The progress of the disease is very slow. (3) The Pseudo-hypertrophic Type.—This form has certain well-marked characteristics. In the first place, the tendency of the disease is to affect males in a greater proportion than females, but the affection is usually transmitted through the mother, she being frequently a member of a myopathic family although not herself affected. Several members of one family may be affected, and in such an event the boys usually suffer while the girls escape. The disease commonly manifests itself between ages of five and six—not that some signs of the disease cannot be detected if looked for earlier, but the unusual weakness in the child is at this age first observed. Although the above is the age at which the onset of the disease is most common, cases occur not only in the second and third decade of life, but also during the fourth. Three-quarters of the cases, how- ever, occur before the age of ten years. The cause of the disease is unknown. Symptoms.—The first symptom usually noticed is that the child frequently falls, and is then unable to get up from the ground without help. On the other hand, the difficulty with which the child goes upstairs is that which often first attracts attention. It is rarely that the enlarge- ment of the calf muscles is the first point to attract notice, although on examination they are often found to be enlarged. In a typical case of the disease it is usual to find certain muscles hypertrophied, hard, and firm, while others are atrophied or absent. The muscles most commonly hypertrophied are the calf muscles, one of the muscles of the quadriceps group, sometimes the vastus internus, sometimes the rectus, the glutei, the infraspinatus, the deltoid, and the triceps. The muscles which are most commonly atrophied are the costal and sternal portions of the pectoralis major, the latissimus dorsi, the biceps, the serratus magnus, the flexor muscles of the thigh, and the ex- tensors of the leg. The atrophy of the two lower portions of the pectoralis major and the hypertrophy of the infraspinatus is especially characteristic of the disease. The muscles of the face are rarely affected; the masseters are sometimes enlarged, and the tongue is occasion- ally enlarged. The position assumed by the patient when standing and when sitting is very characteristic. When standing the trunk is held erect, and there is marked lordosis ; when, however, the patient assumes the sitting position the lordosis is converted into a marked kyphosis. The gait is also very striking; it is waddling in character, the weight of the trunk being swung vertically over the head of one femur, while the other leg is swung forward without being raised from the ground to any extent by the flexors of the thigh. If any obstacle comes in the way so that the patient has to raise the foot, great difficulty is experienced in so doing, and this weakness is specially obvious when the patient attempts to go upstairs. When a child affected with this disease attempts to mount the stair, support is first taken from the balusters: with this arm fixing the trunk, the one leg is swung laterally on to the step above, and then brought to a position in immediate front of the patient; the hand is now placed on the knee, and the weight of the trunk is partly thrown forward, and partly pulled forward by the arm which is holding on to the balusters, and by this means the leg becomes again ex- tended, and the step is accomplished. This performance is again repeated for the next step. Often the patient cannot even accomplish this, and various devices are adopted, such as going upstairs backwards, climbing up the balusters with the arms and dragging the legs after. The difficulty which these patients exhibit in rising from the floor is a most characteristic feature of the disease. If the patient be laid on his back on the floor he cannot sit up straight away by flexing the trunk on the thighs, but he rotates himself by means of his arms on to his face. He now flexes the legs and places himself in a kneeling position, the shoulders being supported by the arms and hands on the ground. The