MALINGERING 156 bility assumed by the certification of sanity, and the coincident assumption of the moral responsi- bility for any consequences that may ensue when the malingerer is allowed to be at large. Before proceeding to treat in detail of cases of pure malingering it appears necessary to touch upon the subject of nervous mimicry, since its manifestations are often so very closely related to those of absolute voluntary simula- tion ; and the subject of this article would be imperfectly reviewed if we omitted to include in our picture some features of the less voluntary and the truly pathological kind of mimicry. Nervous Mimicry or Neuro-Mimesis.—The neuroses associated with Aysierm and neurasthenia are responsible for some of the most confusing and misleading instances of simulated disease, in which some of the symptoms are undoubtedly often assumed intentionally and with motives. There is no specially privileged prerogative en- joyed by the neurasthenic or hysterical subject which renders him impervious to base or trivial motives ; hence we must not be led away by the idea that a person has only to be afflicted with one of these neuroses to ensure his acting, as far as his will can go, honourably. Now, our duty is to decide which phenomena and complaints are due to the neurosis, and which to oblique motives. The reader would do well, in this connection, to study the articles " Hysteria " and " Neuras- thenia " in other parts of this Encyclopedia. In these actual neuro-cachectic conditions we meet with examples of simulated morbid states which present the subjective symptoms of almost every conceivable ailment, and which frequently run courses so protracted as to induce real organic disease, as the outcome of the exhaust- ing effects of the accompanying circumstances. Moreover, the verisimilitudes met with are often most difficult to disentangle from the real facts, as the patient's nervous system, running riot through deficient inhibitory control, takes the bit between its teeth, as it were, and more or less automatically lets loose symptoms and signs so various and so obscure as to often baffle and defeat our attempts at a correct diagnosis. Where factitious wounds and semi-voluntary deceit are superadded, we are confronted with the most difficult cases which we can be called upon to grapple with. Psychic, vaso motor, motor, and sensory functions may all become deranged in the same case, and the moral sense is frequently perverted at the same time. The simulation seen in neurasthenia is often associated with accidents which, through shock and fright, frequently produce this neurosis. Thus we have the tender spinal spots, the lethargic condition, emotional states, rigid backs, pains in joints, and so forth. Mental worry and suspense are the worst enemies of the neuras- thenic patient ; and thus it is that the "settle- ment " of their accident claims after injury. true or assumed, is very often followed by a rapid recovery. So remarkable are these re- coveries that we may sometimes be led to con- sider the past conditions as having been purely malingered, when nervous tension or exhaustion have actually been real and powerful factors in the case. Too great stress cannot be laid on the effect of mental perturbation and worry, with the constant suspense involved in litigation, with the harassing effects of frequent surgical and medical examinations by the patient's own and by strange medical men. We must also bear in mind that occasions arise through in- judicious leading questions put by well-meaning but not very wise practitioners, which operate as suggestions to these highly susceptible sufferers, whereby new subjective symptoms are set in motion. And if we add to these disorganising elements the not infrequent instances where the prospect of financial gain has too much engaged the neurasthenic's mind, and has so modified his correct sense of honour as to produce in him a course of conduct leaving a consciousness of deficient probity, where perhaps principle has for the first time become tainted; here we have a condition in which a " settlement" be- comes the only means of summoning back the better " ego" which can reinstate the self- respect and moral tone necessary for energetic and correct conduct. In this connection, in Allbutt's System of Medicine, vol. viii., Mr. Victor Horsley has wisely urged that the doctors acting for plaintiff and defendant should meet in consultation over such cases before they proceed to court—a method which would prevent the frequent ma- lingering which results from the absence of this custom, as is too often seen. There is much of a subjective nature, and even of an objective kind, that can be winnowed out of these claims by courteous, courageous, and firm, logical, consultative comparison of opinions, a procedure which goes far to prepare such cases for the judicial decision in court; and even if the immediate result is not a " settlement out of court," we may at any rate avoid the discredit to our profession, due to the glaring discrep- ancies in evidence, which so often arise when doctors are confronted by barristers. In studying these neurasthenic cases, especi- ally in connection with railway and other acci- dents where compensation is claimed, we would refer the reader to the classic works of Erichsen and Page, which deal with the subject from somewhat opposing points of view, and those works have lost none of their usefulness by being now of a somewhat antiquated date. A perusal of those works, coupled with experience, will lead us to the conclusion that an apparently grave spinal concussion with subsequent ap- parently hopeless disablement may be recovered from, after months of surgical and medical attention have proved unavailing, directly a