504 MYELOCYTE is present in the blood (niyelcemia). See Blood {Corpuscular Elements, White) ; Gout (Blood, Cellular Constituents) ; Lbucocytosis (Presence of Myelocytes^ MyelOCythaemia.—The presence of myelocytes in the blood. See Myelocyte ; Leucocyth^mia (Changes in Blood, Myelmmia); Leucocytosis (Presence of Myeloctyes). Mye log's nous. — Produced by bone- marrow, e.g. myelogenous leucocythtemia or myelogenic leuksemia. See Leucocyth^mia (Changes in the Blood, Myelaemia). IVIyeloid. — Resembling marrow, e.g. a myeloid sarcoma. Myeloma..—An encephaloid tumour or a giant-celled sarcoma. See Bone, Diseases of (Multiple Myeloma); Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries of (Tumours, Myelomata); Tumours (Connective Tissue Type, Myelomata) ; Urine, Pathological Changes in (Clinical Significance of Albumosuria). Myelomeningocele. — A form of spina bifida in which the hernial protrusion contains in its wall the flattened-out spinal cord itself as well as the membranes. Myelopathia Tropica. See Beri- beri. Myeloplax. — A large multinucleated cell whose function is the absorption of bone; an osteoclast. Myelorrhaphy.—A reparative opera- tion upon the spinal cord. MyelOtherapy. — The use of bone- marrow extracts as medicinal agencies. MyelotOXin. — A substance having a toxic influence upon the spinal cord or upon bone-marrow. Myiasis. Myiasis Intestinalis .... 504 External Myiasis— Cutaneous ..... 506 Myiasis Vuhierum .... 506 Myiasis Narium, etc. . . . 507 Insect Stings and Bites, etc. . . 507 See also Nose, Foreign Bodies (Parasites). Myiasis (/xma, a fly).—The term " myasis " was invented by Hope in 1837 to indicate those disorders which originate from the accidental parasitism of dipterous larvae. The form myiasis has since been adopted as more nearly etymologically correct. The larvse of coleop- terous and lepidopterous insects (beetles and moths) have occasionally been found as temporary inhabitants of the alimentary tract of man, but it is doubtful if they have ever caused serious symptoms. It is far otherwise in the case of maggots of flies, and the acci- dental parasitism of dipterous larvce takes rank as an important section of parasitic disorders. Distinction is made between intestinal and external myiasis. Myiasis Intestinalis. — This condition is caused by larvae present in the alimentary tract, and introduced into the stomach (sometimes as eggs) with food. These larvae, in the great majority of instances, belong to the order Diptera, family Muscidae. In a series of a hundred cases the principal genera identified were— 1. Blow-flies and flesh-flies (blue-, grey-, and green-bottles) — e.g. Calliphora, Sarcophaga, Lucilia. 2. House-flies—Musca, etc. 3. Flower-flies—Anthomyia, etc. The bluebottle flies and similar genera lay eggs (the largest only 1"' in length) or larvae, on meat, and these are ingested along with cold beef, high game, etc. The house-fly also (though usually laying its eggs on stable dung) often finds a nidus in meat which has begun to decompose. The eggs and larvae of the Antho- myiidae are found in vegetables and salads. The larva of Eristalis, the drone-fly, is some- times found in drinking-water; Drosophila larvae have been swallowed in sour milk or meat; and the common cheese maggot Piophila casei is too ordinary an article of diet to excite remark. The symptoms of intestinal myiasis are not sufficiently defined to enable a diagnosis to be made before the larvae have actually appeared. Sometimes there are no symptoms complained of, and the extrusion of the larvae is brought about by a sudden act of vomiting. Or larvae may be noticed in the faeces, the host having been unaware of their lodgment within him. But ordinarily " the presence of these insect larvae is by no means harmless, and in propor- tion to their number and size they give rise to more irritation than the ordinary forms of intestinal worms properly so called " (Cobbold). This statement is fully borne out by clinical experience, and is readily understood when we consider their very active movements, the sharp appendages with which they are usually armed, and the great numbers which are often present. They may be evacuated in quantities too large for enumeration, and in individual cases have been estimated by the quart or litre. As a rule, grave symptoms are due to larvae present in hundreds or at least in scores. But even very few may give rise to pain, profuse diarrhoea, or other distressing symptoms. The history of a case of acute myiasis goes back to the particular occasion on which suspicious food was eaten. In general there is an interval of days, or even weeks, between this and the occurrence of symptoms. These