FORENSIC 262 MEDICINE, subcutaneous structures of the neck, are much more common as a result of throttling than of either hanging or strangulation by means of a constricting cord. In suicidal hanging it is exceptional to find fractures of the thyroid or cricoid cartilages. Partial ruptures of muscles are, however, not infrequent, e.g. sterno-mastoid, platysma. Drowning.—In drowning, the cause of death is pure asphyxia through air being prevented from entering the lungs by means of a fluid medium. The medium may be any fluid, and it is of course not essential that more of the body than the mouth and nostrils should be im- mersed in order to produce death by drowning. External Post-mortem Appem-ances.—Marked coldness of the body, cutis anserina, retraction of penis and scrotum, bleaching and a sodden wrinkled condition of the skin of the hands and soles of the feet, are only indicative of a body having been immersed in water, it may be 2)ost- mortem, and are not therefore characteristic of death by diowning. Goose skin and also con- traction of the penis and scrotum may occur in other forms of death merely as a result of rigor mortis. The only two external appearances strongly indicative of death by drowning are : 1st, The presence of fine foam in the mouth and nose ; and 2nd, The presence of weeds, gravel, etc., firmly grasped in the hands. Internal Appearances. — Besides the general signs of death by asphyxia, more or less well developed, there are three appearances charac- teristic of drowning. 1. Distension of the lungs so that they fill the cavity of the chest—" Balloon lungs " \ they are sodden with water, pit on pressure, and, on section, a quantity of frothy fluid escapes. This condition arises chiefly during the terminal respirations in the third stage of as- phyxia, when unconsciousness supervenes and the reflexes have become destroyed, the fluid being then drawn into the smallest bronchioles and alveolse. During the first stage of dyspnoea no fluid enters the air-passages, or if it does, is at once expelled; while during the second or convulsive stage, water may find its way into the stomach ; but the reflexes not being wholly abolished, water which passes into the larynx is to a large extent rejected, while the expiratory eff"orts which characterise this stage account for the production of the fine foam found in the air-passages after death. The amount of water which penetrates into the lungs producing this " balloon " appearance in a more or less typical form will depend upon the duration and strength of the terminal inspirations before death. 2. Presence of water in the stomach. This is due to water having been swallowed during the first and second stages, and it is often large in amount. It must be distinguished from water drunk before immersion ; this may be done by a microscopic examination of the water in many instances, e.g. the discovery of substances identi- fying it with the water of the canal, pond, etc., in which the body is found. 3. Presence of fine white foam or froth in the trachea and air-passages generally. This fine foam is very characteristic of drowning, and is not to be confounded with the coarse froth frequently seen in cases of death, in which there has been asphyxia from any other cause. In death from drowning, the first green dis- coloration of the skin, as a result of putrefaction, is usually seen in the neck or upper part of the sternum, as distinguished from other forms of death, in which it usually appears in the lower part of the abdomen. Putrefaction is delayed so long as the body remains immersed, but on exposure to the air decomposition advances as a rule with great rapidity. A body sinks on immersion at first, but rises to the surface, unless mechanically prevented, whenever, owing to the development of gases of putrefaction in the body cavities, its specific gravity becomes less than that of the water. The time when a body rises will therefore vary according to the progress of putrefaction, and thus cceteris paribus occurs sooner in summer than in winter, etc. Suicide by drowning is very common; so, too, is accidental drowning, especially during the summer months. It will be impossible to decide whether drowning is homicidal in any case, imless there are injuries on the body betokening a struggle, or other evidence to lead to such a conclusion. In all cases it is im- portant to determine whether death has actually taken place from drowning, since naturally a body may be thrown into the water after death has been caused by other means. In suicidal drowning, however, a body may present marks of violence, either as a result of an attempt at suicide by another method im- mediately before, or as a result of striking some hard object in plunging into the water, or again the injuries may be of post-mortem origin caused by barge poles, lock-gates, paddles of steamers, washing of the body against rocks by the action of waves, etc. It such cases it is necessary to determine whether the injuries present the signs of vital reaction characteristic of production during life. Warning must be given not to mistake the eff"ects of decomposition, and the action of water- rats, fish, and crabs, etc., for injuries and mutila- tions produced by violence during life. Asphyxia produced by the presence of foreign bodies in the air-passages (choking^ is common as a result of accident, but is extremely rare as a means of suicide, or of homicide, except in the case of very young children. Smothering, overlaying, are frequently the cause of accidental death : the former in the case