LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF 98 and spleen, was found to be sterile. Cultivation was successful most often from the subcuta- neous glands, then from the bronchial, and least frequently from the mesenteric. The relative infrequency of mesenteric infection is, of course, due to the fact that the lymphoid tissue in the wall of the intestine serves all the purposes, as far as defence goes, of a lymph-gland, and, as is well known, is practically never quite sterile, though it prevents organisms reaching the mesenteric glands. Manfredi also found that he could introduce small numbers of such organisms as B. prodigiosus and anthracis through the skin by producing slight irrita- tion, and that the nearest glands contained the organisms in a virulent state for four or five days, and in a less virulent condition for several days longer, while the rest of the animal remained sterile and unaffected. If an organism of such rapid growth as the anthrax bacillus can remain latent for so long, it is not to be wondered at that slow-growing organisms like the tubercle bacillus may be latent for vastly j longer periods, and that a forgotten gland in ' the neck may give rise at last to a miliary tuberculosis. In order to show the course pursued by in- fections from gland to gland I have compiled the following table, the materials for which were taken from Sappey, Quain, Testut, Cornet, and other authorities. This will enable the reader at a glance to see from what region any gland has become infected, and what will be the next series of glands to suffer :— Table of Lymphatic Glands, with the Source of their Afferent Vessels, and Destination OF their Efferent Vessels. Name and Situation of Glands. Keceive Afferent Vessels from :- Send Efferent Vessels to :— Parotid—superficial facial or anterior auricular : on and in the substance of the parotid gland, and in front of the external auditory meatus. Internal ■maxillari/—deep facial or buccinator : on the posterior part of the buccinator muscle and side wall of the pharynx. Occipital: on the origin of the tra- pezius. Mastoid, or posterior auricular : on the insertion of the sterno-mastoid behind the ear. ISubmaxiUary : on the submaxillary gland, and between it and the inner surface of the lower jaw. Superficial cervical or superficial jugular: on the upper lateral parts of the neck, in front of the sterno-mastoid, along the external jugular vein. Deep superior cervical or superior jugular : on the bifurcation of the carotid, along the internal jugular to the base of the skull. Deep inferim- cervical or inferior jugular and supraclavicular: the foi-mer on both sides of the large blood-vessels, the latter in the supraclavicular fossa, uniting to form one chain. Head and Neck The temples and surrounding region, the skin of the ear, and the eyelids. The temples, spheno-maxillary fossa, cavity of the orbit and nose, the upper jaw, palate, and pharynx, perhaps from the cranial cavity. The top and back of the head. Parts at the back of the ear. Face, lips, floor of the mouth, sali- vary glands, forehead, eyelids, bridge of the nose and alae nasi, gums and teeth of the lower jaw, tongue, efferent vessels of the paro- tid glands. The outer ear, skin of the front and back of the neck, efferent vessels of the occipital and mastoid glands, and partly those from the parotid and submaxillary glands Cranial cavity, part of the tongue, larynx, thyroid gland, lower part of the pharynx, deep muscles of the neck, efferent vessels of the deep facial, and some from the submaxillary glands. All lymphatic vessels of the head and neck, efferent vessels of the superficial cervical and deep su- perior cervical glands. Submaxillary and superficial cer- vical glands. Deep superior cervical glands. Superficial cervical glands. Superficial and deep cervical glands. Superficial cervical and deep su- perior cervical glands. Deep inferior cervical glands. Deep inferior cervical glands. Unite to form jugular lymphatic trunk, which on the left side runs into the thoracic duct; on the right side into the common lymphatic duct, the subclavian vein, or internal jugular vein. Other branches pass from and to the axillary and thoracic glands. By the help of some glands found in the middle of the neck they sometimes form a continuous chain with those of the other side.