MENINGITIS, TUBERCULOUS AND POSTERIOR BASIC 323 but almost always the inflammation subsides spontaneously after a few days. Accidental complications such as diarrhoea and broncho- pneumonia are apt to occur in chronic cases, with much emaciation. Prognosis.—This form of meningitis is cer- tainly not always fatal. The proportion of recoveries has been estimated at about 10 per cent. Unfortunately, however, some of the cases that recover are left with mental impair- ment ; deafness also leading to deafmutism has resulted. The blindness has been observed to disappear entirely after several months in cases which recovered. In many cases the actual cause of death is rather the progx'essive hydrocephalus, and the emaciation and exhaustion which accompany it, than the inflammation of the meninges, which may indeed have completely subsided several weeks or months before the fatal result. Corresponding probably with this difference in the cause of death, the fatal cases can be divided into two groups—those in which death occurs within three to five weeks from the onset of the disease, and those in which it occurs after three to four months or later. The prognosis is worse in very young infants than in those who are older. Pathology and Morbid Anatomy. — Unlike tuberculous and suppurative meningitis, this disease shows in almost all cases only the meningeal lesion and its local results, and in this sense might be called a primary meningitis. The route of infection has not yet been ascer- tained ; but it seems possible that, as has been suggested by Dr. Lees for cases of vertical suppurative meningitis, the infection in posterior basic meningitis may in some cases pass from the nose by way of the lymphatics, which have been shown (Key and Retzius) to have a very direct communication with those of the men- inges. In favour of this view one might urge that in some cases a slight catarrh of the upper air-passages has preceded the onset of the meningeal symptoms. Moreover, in the very closely allied condition, epidemic cerebro-spinal meningitis, the specific micro-organism of that disease has been demonstrated in the nasal secretion by several observers. At present, however, in the case of posterior basic menin- gitis, there is no bacteriological evidence to prove infection either from the nose or from the ear. The characteristic lesion in this disease is an exudation of lymph at the base of the brain, chiefly about the medulla, the reflexion of arachnoid between the medulla and cerebellum, and the inferior surface of the cerebellum. It extends forward also over the pons to the optic chiasma, and there is often a patch of exudation at the anterior inferior part of each temporo- sphenoidal lobe. A similar exudation is present in most cases on the spinal cord, especially in the lumbar region on the posterior (dorsal) surface. Rarely the exudation extends up along the sulci almost or quite up to the vertex of the brain. There is flattening of the convolutions owing to increase of the intra- ventricular cerebro-spinal fluid. In the most acute cases there is often a collection of yellowish exudation at the bottom of the cornua of each lateral ventricle, sometimes also in the third and fourth ventricles; the ependyma in such cases is swollen, red, and opaque. The occurrence of inflammation between the inferior surface of the cerebellum and the medulla, which is the most constant feature in the morbid anatomy of posterior basic menin- gitis, determines the occurrence of some degree of hydrocephalus in almost every case; for the exudation may be so abundant as to block the foramina of Luschka and Magendie, or these may be blocked as the result of adhesions, which in some cases bind the cerebellum firmly on to the medulla, and may even obliterate the lower portion of the fourth ventricle. In either case the obstruction to the path of the cerebro- spinal fluid results in distension of the lateral and third and fourth ventricles. In rare cases the iter becomes blocked by inflammation of its lining membrane, and in this way only the lateral and third ventricles become distended. In some cases all exudation has disappeared long before death occurs, and only the resulting opacity and thickening of the pia arachnoid remain together with considerable matting of parts by adhesions, especially between the medulla and cerebellum, so that steadily in- creasing hydrocephalus has been the cause of death. In cases where periarthritis has occuri'ed an exudation exactly similar to that occurring in the meninges has been found about the tendon sheaths in the neighbourhood of the joint. The joint itself appears to be normal in most cases, but evidence of synovitis and chondritis has been observed by the writer in one case. The periarthritic exudation has been shown to be due to the specific micro-organism of posterior basic meningitis. Besides the lesions described nothing abnormal is found in other organs, except such lesions as are due to accidental complications. Diagnosis.—From tuberculous meningitis the posterior basic form is distinguished by the earlier age at which it occurs ; the more sudden onset; the persistence of marked head retrac- tion ; the slightness or absence of paralysis of cranial nerves; the occurrence of blindness, and the absence of optic neuritis and of tubercle of the choroid; and, lastly, its more chronic course. Posterior basic meningitis is usually easily distinguished from suppurative meningitis by its much slower course—the former lasts several weeks or months, the latter only a few days—