137 MALAEIA Bilious remittent is of fairly common occur- rence in most of the intensely malarious regions, being more frequent there during some years as compared to others. It usually starts as an ordinary case of fever, but the temperature rapidly becomes remittent, and bilious vomiting, with or without diarrhoea, sets in; there is icterus of the skin and sclerotics as well as bile in the urine. These cases last longer and lead to more prolonged convalescence than ordinary cases of fever. Typhoidal remittent is an aggravated form of the bilious remittent to which typhoidal symptoms are superadded, namely, dry tongue, muttering delirium, subsultus tendinum, and cardiac weakness. A considerable proportion of these cases terminate fatally. Adynamic Form.—In these cases there is great prostration, nervous and cardiac depres- sion, rapid and progressive deterioration of the blood, with icterus and wasting. Haemorrhages may occur from the mucous surfaces, there is a liability to phagedsena and local gangrene. This type of malaria is most frequently met with in half-starved and overworked natives, and occasionally in Europeans who have under- gone exceptional hardships. Pernicious Attacks.—These are almost invari- ably associated with malignant malarial infec- tions ; it is extremely rare for benign tertian, and still rarer for quartan infections, to give rise to grave symptoms. Pernicioiis attacks usually occur in the Tropics or in intensely malarious districts, but cases of this nature may occur from time to time after return to England. The pernicious symptoms are for the most part determined by the aggregation of vast numbers of sporulating parasites in the blood-vessels of the viscera, especially in those of the brain. It has already been pointed out that the tendency to sporulate in the internal organs is characteristic of the malignant parasite. The symptoms that supervene de- pend on the particular organ or, in the case of the brain, the particiilar area that is especially affected. Although the intensity of the infection depends mainly on the number of parasites present, yet it is certain that some parasites are more malignant than others. It should be here pointed out that the number of pa7-asites found in the finger blood gives no indication as to the degree of the infection in malignant cases. Fatal cases occur in which very few parasites are found in the peripheral circulation. The pernicious forms of malarial fever may be divided into cerebral and algide, and these may be again subdivided as follows :— Cerebral. 1. Hyperpyrexial. 2. Comatose. 3. Maniacal. 4. Paralytic and aphasic. Algide. 1. Gastric. 2. Choleraic. 3. Dysenteric. 4. Syncopal. The classification is useful for the purpose of description, but cases are frequently met with which do not conform to any one type, being a combination of two or more forms. Although the majority of pernicious attacks terminate in hyperpyrexia, there is also an apyrexial form ] this is rare, and usually occurs in old people, when, like pneumonia in the aged, it is insidious and gradual in its onset. There is perhaps a slight preliminary pyrexia, but the temperature subsequently becomes normal, and remains so until death occurs, which is generally preceded by coma. A case of this character was recently admitted to the Seamen's Hospital, Eoyal Albert Dock, London. 1. Hyperpyrexial Form.—In typical cases the onset is sudden; for example, the patient may fall down at his work in an unconscious or semi- comatose condition. There is usually a history of recent attacks of fever; temperature is found to be 104° F. or 105° F., and shortly afterwards it may register 107° F. or 108° F., and instead of being lowered by the sweating stage it mounts still higher, reaching 110° F., or even 112° F. The patient, after a brief stage of violent delirium, passes rapidly into a deep coma, which ends in death. Cases of this description are often put down as attacks of sunstroke. There is another type of case in which, in the course of an ordinary attack of malaria, the temperature, instead of falling as usual, rises steadily and, in spite of treatment, hyperpyrexia and death supervene. A patient who has recovered from a hj-perpyrexia attack should be removed from a malarious country and not be permitted to return on account of liability to similar attacks. 2. Comatose Form.—This, like the hyper- pyrexial form, may either develop suddenly or come on during the attack of fever; the temperature may not be high, and, in some cases, with the advent of the sweating stage the patient may gradually come out of the coma. In other cases, although the sweating occurs as \isual, the coma deepens and ends in death. Occasionally the patient regains con- sciousness and the temperature falls, but the next day fever and coma return, or delirium, and perhaps hyperpyrexia, supervene and death takes place after a few hours' time. It is possible, if quinine be promptly and properly administered and in sufficiently large doses, that the second comatose attack may be pre- vented or diminished in intensity. 3. Maniacal. — This is less common than the two previous forms of pernicious fever. Several cases, however, occurred during the last French campaign in Madagascar. This form is nearly always fatal. It may commence with delusions and terminate either in coma or hyperpyrexia. 4. Paralytic and Aphasic Forms.—These are