94 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF argument is as follows:—When an animal is at rest on the table there is no flow of lymph from the hind-limbs at all; the flow from the fore-limbs and head is excluded by the conditions of the experiment, and there is no flow from the thorax, since ligature of the thoracic duct just above the diaphragm stops the lymph-flow completely. Thus, in such experiments, the flow from the thoracic duct is derived entirely from the abdominal viscera, and these, for present purposes, may be divided into two groups—the viscera drained by the portal vein, and the liver. By tying different lymphatics and blood-vessels, Starling succeeded in showing that the increased lymph-flow was derived, not from the intestines or portal area as Heidenhain thought, but from the liver. The increased concentration of the lymph, found when the vena cava is obstructed, is due to the fact that the lymph from the liver is normally more concentrated than that from the intestine, or than the mixed lymph which flows from the thoracic duct, and the obstruction of the vena cava raises the pressure in the portal vein and liver capillaries very greatly. That is to say, there is a great rise of blood-pressure in the region where the lymph is produced. When the thoracic aorta is obstructed the pressure in the liver capillaries is either unaltered or else slightly increased, and the same is the case with the lymph-flow from the thoracic duct, and the lymph-production in the abdominal organs is thus shown to be directly proportional to the capillary pressure in these organs. Further, an increase in lymph-flow may be produced by causing a rise in the capillary pressure by injecting large quantities of normal saline solution intravenously; and that the increase is not due simply to the altered con- dition of the blood may be shown by first bleeding the animal to a given amount, and then injecting the same quantity of normal saline, when the corresponding increase in lymph-flow does not take place, though there is a slight increase due to the hydrsemia. The action of Heidenhain's second class of lympha- gogues (salt, sugar, potassium iodide) is also due to the increase of capillary pressure which their injection produces. This increase is pro- duced, not by the actual volume of fluid injected, but by the fact that the strong solutions used have a much higher osmotic pressure than normal blood-plasma. They attract fluid from the tissues until a great dilution of the blood is produced, and a con- sequent rise in capillary pressure in the abdo- minal viscera and an increased flow of lymph are brought about. Capillary pressure is not, however, the only factor which determines the flow of lymph : the permeability of the membrane through which it passes, the capillary wall, is also of import- ance. Normally this permeability varies con- siderably in different parts of the body, being highest in the liver capillaries, less in those of the intestine, and least of all in the limbs. We find that this results in a great difference in the percentage of proteid present in the lymph from these tracts. In that of the liver it is from 6 to 8 per cent (nearly as much as in the blood-plasma), of the intestine from 4 to 6 per cent, of the limbs only from 2 to 3. It is possible experimentally to increase the permea- bility of the limb capillaries by such local injury as plunging the limb into water at 56° C. for a few minutes. Lymph then begins to flow spontaneously from the lymph-vessels of the limb, and it is much richer in proteids than is lymph from a normal limb. The action of Heidenhain's first class of lymphagogues may be explained in this way, for these substances (extract of leeches or crayfish or peptone) are poisons, and, far from stimulating the endo- thelial cells to activity, are much more likely to injure them, and in so doing to increase the permeability of the capillary wall, and thus to increase the lymph-flow, especially from the liver. It seems to me, therefore, that we are quite entitled to conclude with Starling that the formation of lymph depends on the two factors, the intra-capillary blood-pressure and the per- meability of the capillary wall, and that its composition will depend on these two factors and on the changes produced in it by diffiision and osmosis between itself and the tissues which it bathes. There is no evidence that the endo- thelial cells actively form lymph; their only function is to act as a filtering membrane, and all injuries to them interfere with this function, and make them more permeable. The nervous system has no direct influence on the formation of lymph, but may influence it by altering capillary pressure through its action on the muscular fibres of blood-vessels. The Movements of Lymph.—From what has been said in the previous section, it will be evident that as the lymph passes through the capillary wall under the influence of the blood- pressure, it is this pressure, and therefore primarily the contractions of the heart, which initiate the movement of the lymph through the tissue spaces towards the lymph-vessels, and along these. But there are other sub- sidiary factors. The respiratory movements cause a variation in the flow from the thoracic duct. Each inspiration, that is, each descent of the diaphragm, causes an increase of pres- sure in the abdomen and a fall in the thorax, which empties the abdominal lymphatics and the receptaculum chyli into the thoracic duct. Each expiration reverses the pressure in the thorax and abdomen, causes a collapse of the thoracic duct, and as the valves in the duct pre- vent any reflux into the abdomen, the lymph is forced on into the veins. Each inspiration,