297 MEMORY IN HEALTH AND DISEASE ment and physiological capacity, which may be said to be its inherited memory. When it per- forms its function for the first time a permanent effect is produced in it—its first memory. This memory, however, has a tendency to be blotted out unless the action of the cell is repeated, and each time the action is repeated the new condi- tion becomes more stable. It may be stated, therefore, that nerve-cells have always a ten- dency to return to a state of stability : hence the cell, as it were, has always a tendency to forget. This tendency to forgetfulness is, how- ever, prevented by a repetition of the action: hence action makes the new condition, the memory, more stable, until a state is reached when the memory may be said to be permanent or stable—^in other words, organised. We have hitherto been considering the simple action of single cells, but the same principle applies to the more complicated processes of the nervous system. As is well known, the cells in the anterior cornua of the spinal cord are not only in physiological and anatomical relationship with the cells on a higher level in the nervous system, but they are also in physiological and anatomical relationship with some of the cells on the same level in the spinal cord, and more especially with the sensory cells on the same level, so that nerve impressions received by the sensory nerves can be reflected into the motor route, and a contraction of a muscle produced by stimulation of a sensory nerve—a reflex action. Nerve impulses pass from the sensory to the motor route more easily the oftener they are repeated; hence we have a memory whose physical basis is a simple associa- tion between a sensory and a motor cell. Pass- ing up higher in the nervous system we have the possibility of nerve impulses passing from the sensory cells in the cortex to the motor cells in the cortex; and following the law, the oftener they pass the less difficulty they have in passing, and the greater tendency they have to pass. Here again is a memory depending for its existence on the anatomical and physio- logical arrangement of the cells and fibres in the cortex and other parts of the nervous system. If the result of nerve impressions re- ceived by the sensory cells of the cortex is the production of a complicated movement by the passing of nerve impulses not to one but to a series of cells in the motor cortex, the result is that similar impressions will have greater tendency to pass in the same direction on each occasion on which they are repeated, and a similar movement will be produced more readily on each occasion. This is simply equivalent to saying that the oftener a complicated move- ment is repeated the easier and more expert it becomes. This of course is well known, but perhaps it is not so well known that it depends on the fact that the nerve mechanism concerned in it has retained the memory of previous action. On first performance of any action a person feels awkward, but on each repetition it becomes easier, until there is no difficulty in the per- formance of an expert action. As with the action of a simple cell, the complexus of cells act together in a manner becoming gradually more and more certain until a condition is reached when the action may be considered almost perfect, the nearly stable or organised condition previously referred to. If, however, the same movement is for a long time not repeated the cells have a tendency not to act so exactly together; the expert action becomes gradually lost. The cells, as it were, have forgotten ; memory of the movement has been nearly lost, and it has to be learned over again. According to Ribot, when memory has become stable or organised we suppose not only a modification of the nervous elements, but the formation between them of associations de- termined for each particular event, the estab- lishment of certain dynamic associations, whicli by repetition become as stable as the primi- tive anatomical connections. Hitherto I have been taking no account of the higher cells in the cerebrum, those concerned with volition— the emotions, reason, etc.; but the same principle applies to them, only the apparatus concerned in these processes is probably more complicated than those concerned in simple sensation and motor action. A complicated movement requiring the action of several muscles, and therefore of a complicated series of cells, at first is difficult to bring about, and in its production the will accompanied by con- sciousness requires to be very distinctly called into action. Gradually, however, the exercise of the will is required less and less, and con- sciousness less and less accompanies it, until the complicated action passes gradually from being a conscious to become a subconscious one. Expert actions, therefore, are at first conscious; but through being repeated they may become subconscious, and this results from the fact that the nervous mechanism retains the memory of its previous action. In the lives of each individual actions which are conscious are gradually becoming subconscious from the daily repetition of them. A child at first has difficulty in learning to walk ; but, as is well known, a person may walk miles without even being conscious of the complicated movements required. He may walk up and down a stair without being conscious of the different movements he is per- forming. He may ride miles on a bicycle with- out being conscious of the complicated move- ments required to balance himself, to steer, and to pedal his machine. These complicated move- ments have become subconscious or automatic, and are regulated by the sensory impressions received through the sensory and special sense nerves passing to and regulating the proper motor nerve apparatus, without calling into