459 MOUTH—DISEASES OF THE MOUTH origin these seldom begin to show themselves before the period of adolescence, and may not become evident until old age. Their structure does not seem to diifer from that of dermoid cysts elsewhere. Some of them undoubtedly are formed by a fold of skin or sometimes of mucous membrane between Meckel's cartilage and the inferior maxilla. Some, however, form from a cleft posterior to the inferior maxilla, which is seen in the case of cysts adherent to the hyoid bone. They form a swelling in the supra-hyoid region externally, and in the anterior portion of the mouth internally. They are situated in the median line, and the swell- ing in the mouth may appear to be slightly bilobed owing to the attachments of the tongue to the genial tubercles. The most satisfactory treatment is to remove them by incising the skin in the middle line below the chin and dis- secting them carefully from their surroundings. If very much adherent it may be possible to remove only portion of them. The remainder of the interior must be scraped with a sharp spoon and the surface destroyed with a powerful caustic such as chromic acid. If any small part of the lining membrane is left intact the cyst may reform. 2. Hydatid cysts of the floor of the mouth are very rare and need not detain us. 3. Ranulas are very common swellings in the floor of the mouth. The name is a curious one and its origin is obscure. It has been suggested that the swelling causes a difficulty of speech somewhat resembling the croaking of a frog; another is that when the swelling in the floor of the mouth is large the characteristic appearance of a frog's mouth is simulated. Pathological Anatomy.—At one time the swelling was considered to be due to a dilatation of Wharton's duct owing to some obstruction at its orifice. In the great majority of cases, how- ever, this view can be easily disproved by passing a fine probe along the duct. In all probability no ranula has ever been formed in this way. Another view was that they were caused by a blockage and subsequent distension of certain glands in the floor of the mouth first described by Blandin and by Nuhn. These little glands are situated on each side of the frenum linguse, and from their position might conceivably cause such a swelling when enormously dilated. There are numerous small glands in the floor of the mouth, and no such swelling ever forms in connection with them. At the present day most pathologists admit that a ranula originates in some portion of the salivary glands, usually the sublingual, perhaps occasionally the submaxillary. The exact mode of their formation is, however, obscure. One suggestion is that they originate in abnormal outlying lobules of the sublingual glands, which undergo some curious form of degeneration. In support of the view that ranulas originate in connection with salivary granular tissue, is the fact that in microscopic sections of the wall of the cyst groups of lobules of the salivary type in various stages of degeneration are seen. As a rule the cyst is situated immediately under the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, between it and the mylo-hyoid muscle. In some cases, however, the swelling is situated on the other surface of the muscle between it and the deep cervical fascia, hence two varieties of ranula are spoken of—the sublingual or ordinary form and the supra-hyoid ranula. According to some authors the supra-hyoid ranula originates in connection with some portion of the super- ficial part of the submaxillary gland. This, however, is denied by Morestin, who has found small lobules of the sublingual gland projecting through the fibres of the mylo-hyoid muscle. The most recent view, therefore, is that a ranula originates in some part of the sublingual salivary gland, either from the main mass of the gland when the ordinary sublingual ranula is formed, or by superficial prolongations of the gland through the mylo-hyoid muscle when the supra-hyoid or submaxillary ranula is formed. Microscopically, the cyst wall is formed of a thin cellular membrane lined by either a cubical or a stratified epithelium. The contents of the cyst consist of a substance which microscopically rather resembles saliva, although it is denser and less limpid, having rather a viscous con- sistence. Chemically it differs by having a much greater quantity of mucus, the absence of the diastatic ferment and of sulpho-cyanide of potassium. Symptoms.—It forms very gradually, and at first causes no trouble whatever. It usually commences on one side of the middle line, but as soon as it becomes large it spreads over to the opposite side and has a bilobed appearance, being crossed down the centre by the frenum linguae. As it gets larger and larger the swelling becomes more and more symmetrical, until finally it may be impossible to say upon which side it may have originated. The floor of the mouth is stretched over it and presents a greyish-pink or greyish-blue colour. The mucous membrane glides over the swelling. The cyst is not at all tense unless it is squeezed between the fingers. When its size is very great it may form a swelling between the chin and the hyoid bone externally, and in such cases there would be considerable difficulty of mastica- tion and sometimes of respiration. Treatment.—is by no means an easy matter, especially when the cyst is a large one. The best method is to cut away a fairly large piece of the wall of the cyst, taking care to avoid Wharton's duct. The contents are then evacuated and the cyst wall rubbed with some form of caustic. The writer has found that pure chromic acid rubbed over the whole interior of the cyst is generally successful. The cavity