MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF mately it gives way or sloughs, and from the sharply-cut opening an intracystic growth soon protrudes. In spite, however, of the large size and fungating appearance of the tumour, it retains its non-malignant character. On section, the tumour presents a characteristic cabbage or cauliflower like appearance, due to the manner in which the cysts are closely packed with foliaceous or papilliform ingrowths. The stroma is either fibro-cellular or more or less myxo- matous, in which case areas of hsemorrhagic and mucoid softening are often present. Clinically, these tumours are distinguished from the true sarcomata by their long history, by the absence of infiltration, by the presence of true cysts, and by freedom from recurrence, when freely removed. Under the name "pure adenoma," a tumour has been described which consists almost entirely of gland tissue and in structure and arrange- ment closely resembles the normal breast. These tumours are not so rare as is usually supposed; they are of no special importance, however, since they cannot be distinguished clinically from the ordinary fibro-adenomata. Pnre fibroma is, perhaps, the rarest of all the tumours of the mamma. Williams found only 1 example out of 2397 reported cases of mam- mary neoplasms. Apparently the tumour is more frequently situated in the pre- and retro- mammary tissue, than in the breast itself. Like the pure adenoma, it cannot be distinguished clinically. Lastly, in regard to fibro-glandular tumours, it should be mentioned that examples are very occasionally met with in which the growth is divided up into lobules separated by an inter- lobular stroma containing adipose tissue. In a case of this kind removed by Dr. P. H. Watson, the gland tubes were filled with a creamy fluid and were here and there dilated into small cysts. The tumour, which was the size of a large lemon, was distinctly encapsulated and readily shelled out. Treatment. — Fibro-adenomata should always be excised, as there is no evidence to show that they ever disappear spontaneously. As already mentioned, after remaining stationary for some years they may suddenly take on a more active growth, this being more liable to occiir during pregnancy ; their removal, therefore, should be strongly recommended before marriage. In the majority of cases it is sufficient merely to shell out the tumour. The skin being put on the stretch, and the tumour at the same time fixed and projected forward between the finger and thumb, an incision (which should radiate from the nipple) is carried through the capsule well down on to the tumour, which is then grasped with vulsella forceps and pulled forward with the left hand, while the forefinger of the right hand is swept round between the tumour and its capsule. At one part, namely, where the vessels enter, the tumour is generally found to be more closely connected with the breast; this attachment may be left till the last and clamped before it is divided. All bleeding should be carefully arrested before the wound is closed, and if the latter be of any depth, buried catgut siitures should be employed, or deep silkworm- gut sutures, which include the skin, should be passed well into the substance of the breast, superficial horse-hair sutures being used to bring about accurate apposition of the skin edges. If interrupted sutures are used, drainage is seldom necessary. When the tumour occupies the lower hemi- sphere, the cicatrix may be hidden from view by adopting the plan, as recommended by Gail- lard Thomas, of making the incision along the thoracico - mammary fold, and reaching the tumour by incising the posterior surface of the corpus mammte. When the tumour is so large that the breast tissue is pushed aside and atrophied, it should be removed along with the growth. In none of the varieties of fibro-adenomata is it necessary to remove the axillary glands. Duct Paj^illoma.—Duct papillomata are essen- tially pedunculated epithelial adeno-papillo- matous growths which spring from the walls of the larger ducts. To the naked eye, the tumour has a very characteristic reddish-purple and finely papillated or villous appearance. Under the microscojje, the branching and union of the delicate processes give the tumour a lobular or adenomatous appearance, the spaces being lined by one or more rows of cubical or low columnar cells. The supporting connective tissue is scanty and contains numerous thin- walled blood-vessels. Haemorrhages into the tumour are, therefore, of common occurrence, and occasionally give it a false " melanotic" appearance. The fluid which escapes from the nipple is secreted by the epithelium of the tumour. When there is any obstruction to the escape of the secretion the growth may enlarge rapidly and become cystic. In some instances the tumour grows more rapidly and, by invading the wall of the duct, involves the adjacent breast tissue and may even fungate through the skin. These tumours may be single or multiple, growing, in the former case, generally fi-om the wall of a lacteal sinus, while in the latter they may be confined to the ducts of one lobe, or they may be scattered throughout the breast. They occur most commonly in multipara who have nursed their children, and sometimes there is a history of unduly prolonged suckling; occasionally there is a history of a blow, or of the infant having severely bitten the nipple. Duct papillomata have been met with between the ages of twenty-three and sixty-seven, the majority occurring between the ages of thirty- five and sixty.