MALARIA 133 is lost that pernicious symptoms are liable to supervene. Although, as a general rule, all the parasites sporulate at the same time, still a certain number may mature in advance of the others. When the cycle of development of the parasite is shortened, an anticipating type of fever is the result; when delayed, the fever is said to post- pone. The former type of fever is generally met with in aggravated cases of malaria, the latter in cases about to recover. There is also another kind of periodicity in malarial infection, namely, a tendency for the parasites to accumulate in the internal organs during the latter part of their cycle. This is particularly the case in malignant infections. During the earlier part of the cycle the parasites may be found in abundance in the peripheral circulation, whereas just prior to the paroxysm they may be searched for in vain. If, however, the spleen be aspirated they can be found under- going sporulation in that organ and in enormous numbers. This fact should be remembered, because it is the accumulation of parasites in the internal organs which appears to be a prin- cipal cause of pernicious symptoms. The young parasites reappear in the peripheral circulation during the attack of fever. Periodicity of this nature is most marked in the case of malignant infections, less marked in benign tertian, and still less in the quartan fevers. Malaria differs from other febrile processes, not only in possessing the tertian and quartan periodicity, which, when present, is practically characteristic of the disease, but also by the fact that the attack may occur at any hour during the day or night. Statistics show that in rather more than half the number of cases the attack of malaria occurs between midnight and midday. This very rarely happens in other diseases; the period of pyrexia occasion- ally becomes inverted in typhoid fever and tuberculosis, but, speaking generally, attacks of fever setting in during the forenoon in a tropical country are of malarial origin. Benign Tertian Fever.—This is by far the commonest form of malarial infection, particu- larly in subtropical and temperate climates. In a series of a hundred consecutive cases of malaria occurring in sailors from all parts of the world, and admitted to the Seamen's Hospital, Royal Albert Dock, London, this form of malaria occurred nearly twice as frequently as the quartan and malignant combined, thus:— Benign tertian (single and double infec- tions) ...... 59 Malignant . .... 26 Quartan ...... 7 Benign tertian and malignant . . 6 Benign tertian and quartan ... 2 100 Double infection, that is, two generations of the parasite sporulating on alternate days, is a common cause of the double tertian or quotidian type of fever (see Chart IV.); it is rare, how- ever, to meet with more than two generations of the parasite in the same case. Mixed infections are also frequently met with, and thus benign tertian may be combined with quartan or malignant, or with both quartan and malignant. The symptoms may be divided into those occurring in the period of— (1) Prodromata. (2) Febrile paroxysm. (3) Intermission. (4) Convalescence. (1) Prodromata. — Before the onset of the febrile attack there is generally a variable period during which the patient feels languid, out of sorts, and depressed; he may have obscure pains about the limbs and back, in the eyeballs, and in the splenic region. The appetite may be poor and the bowels consti- pated ; occasionally there is some perversion in the senses of taste and smell. He may feel chilly or feverish during some part of the day. In pure single infections most of these symp- toms are complained of on alternate days, and old malarial subjects recognise them as pre- monitory warnings of the coming attack, and are often able to prevent its development by early treatment. Sometimes prodromata are absent, the patient feeling quite well until the fever comes on. (2) Febrile Paroxysm.—The prodromal symp- toms, if present, become aggravated ; the patient feels unfit for work, he yawns and stretches him- self ; headache becomes intense; he begins to feel cold and shivery, especially down the back and in the extremities; the face looks pinched and cyanosed, and gradually rigor sets in. The teeth then chatter, respiration becomes jerky, the voice broken, and the pulse is small and rapid. He covers himself with all the blankets he can find in a vain attempt to gain warmth; there may be vomiting and diarrhoea. The limbs ache, and there may be tinnitus aurium. This stage of rigor is usually well marked in benign tertian fevers, and may last from half an hour to an hour or more. In children the rigor may be badly marked, or it may be replaced by a general convulsion or an attack of vomiting. The temperature, which has been gradually ascending just before the rigor set in, now rapidly rises to 104° F. or to 106° F.; as a rule, however, the fastigium is not reached until the hot stage supervenes. After a time the feeling of intense cold is replaced by flashes of heat; these become more frequent until the cold stage passes into a definite hot stage. The face is now flushed and the eyes injected, the mouth dry and the tongue furred. The skin