LUNGS, DISEASES OF— 78 VASCULAR DISORDERS often eventually broncho-pneumonia, and hardly deserving of the name of a primary active pulmonary congestion. Leuf describes the results of thirty post- mortem examinations on alcoholic and decrepit persons, who had died suddenly of cold and exposure with intense dyspnoea, and he states that their lungs were intensely congested, almost purple in colour, and generally also oedematous, with great dilatation and engorge- ment of the right side of the heart; but in these cases, or many of them, cardiac failure and passive, rather than active, congestion would account for the pathological condition. The clinical feaUires of the so-called primary acute congestion are rigor, dyspnoja, cough, often blood-stained sputum, and a temperature of at least 101°. The physical signs are diminished resonance, sometimes with an indis- tinct tympanitic note, feeble bronchial breath- ing, and many fine moist sounds. The proc/nosis and diagnosis require little comment, and the treatment of a so-called primary case would consist in bleeding, possibly even from the right auricle in an urgent case, according to Sticker; purgatives and diuretics ; and ice applied to heart or chest. Passive Hyperemia or Passive Congestion OF THE Lungs May be either (1) the result of obstruction, such as occurs in a case of mitral stenosis, where the long-standing backward pressure causes brown induration of the lung; or (2) hypostatic congestion, where, in devitalised subjects, prob- ably due to gradual cardiac failure and para- lytic distension of the pulmonary capillaries, the dependent parts of the lungs become engorged. (1) In chronic venous congestion of long standing the lungs present a very typical appearance. They are of a russet-brown colour, often dry, although sometimes they are oedematous. The pulmonary capillaries are dilated, tortuous, and project into the alveoli like loops. The pulmonary arteries and veins are also distended, but not so markedly. Inside the alveoli there are many desquamated alveolar cells containing much brownish coloured blood pigment. The capillaries of the bi'onchi and even of the pleura also suffer, and the bronchial tubes show long-standing chronic catarrh. There is also considerable increase of connective tissue thi'oughout the lung, giving the lung more resistance on pressure, while the blood pigment in the alveolar walls and in the desquamated epithelial cells accounts for the typical colour of the organ. But it must be remembered that this mechanical congestion may be of acute de- velopment, and no brown induration, indicating long-standing backward pressure, may have had time to result. Many cardiac and pulmonary diseases are responsible for backward pressure in the lungs, whether of rapid or of slow development, such as mitral stenosis and insufficiency, aortic in- competence or even stenosis if accompanied by mitral incompetence, and any condition causing cardiac failure among cardiac lesions; while among pulmonary affections there are long- standing bronchitis, emphysema, and cirrhosis of lung. The clinical features vary with the degree and the presence or absence of oedema. In a chronic case, such as mitral stenosis, so long as the heart is competent to discharge its functions, there may be no obvious symptoms or signs of the pulmonary condition; but if compensation is lost, dyspnoea, orthopnoea, cough, with more or less expectoration, soon appear, the sputum often containing alveolar cells packed with brown pigment. The physical signs vary greatly with the amount of oedema present. If oedema is slight or absent, bronchitis may give the typical breath-sounds of that condition. The percussion note may be somewhat dull, especially over the basis of the lungs. The diagnosis presents little difficulty; the clinical picture of a cardiac case suffering from backward pressure, with epigastric pulsation, engorged jugular veins, etc., is very typical. The prognosis depends on the degree of the condition and the etiological factor responsible for it. The treatment is to relieve the congestion, and, if possible, to remove the cause. Bleeding, wet cupping, hydragogue cathartics, diuretics, and, where permissible, diaphoretics, may all be used with advantage. (2) Hypostatic Congestion.—This is not en- tirely due to gravity, because it does not occur in a healthy individual when confined to bed. It is, however, passive congestion of the more dependent parts of the lungs, and its production necessitates a devitalised subject. It is a paralytic dilatation of vessels due to debility and enfeebled action of heart. The lung is of a dark purple colour engorged with blood ; and, generally in a marked case, there is sufficient oedematous fluid on the alveoli to make the lung sink in water. The most dependent parts are most likely to be quite airless. Hypostatic congestion is common at death, not, perhaps, to a very marked degree, but in all diseases where vitality is greatly reduced it is present; as, for instance, in protracted cases of fever (typhoid, typhus, or smallpox), many debilitating nervous diseases (apoplexy, myelitis), and many other diseases. The clinical features are often difficidt to determine from the impossibility of subjecting the patient to a thorough examination. They consist in diminished resonance over the affected parts, feeble bronchial or even tubular breathing, slightly increased vocal resonance, and fine moist