110 MABEY'S MALADY Mabey'S Malady.—A disease affect- ing young persons, characterised by recurring attacks of iritis, the formation of opacities in the vitreous, sometimes by the entire loss of the eye, by chronic disorganisation of the last joints of the fingers (acro-arthritis), by liability to chilblains and a tendency to tuberculosis; it is usually associated with gout. (J. Hutchin- son, Archives of Surgery, iv. 361, 1893; xi. 205, 1900.) Macaco Worm.—The larva of a fly {Cuterebra or Dermatobia noxialis) found in Central America, which penetrates the skin of man and cattle and sets up much irritation. Macaroni. See Diet {Vegetable Foods, Cereals, Wheat Flour); Invalid Feeding (Vege- tables, Boiled Macaroni). M*^Burney's Point.—A tender spot, usually found in cases of appendicitis, midway between the anterior superior iliac spine on the right side and the umbilicus. The pain is elicited by deep and continuous pressure. See Appendix Vermiformis {Appendicitis, Symptoms, Pain). M^^CIintOCk'S Rule.-The statement that a rapid pulse (100 or over), immediately after labour, points to impending post-partum haemorrhage. MacCormac's Osteotomy. See Deformities {Genu Valgum, Treatynent). Maceilaria.—The screw-worm, the larva of a fly {lucilia hominivora) found in Central and South America, whose eggs are apt to be deposited in the anterior nares and to give rise there (during their development) to serious and even fatal consequences {meningitis, haimorrhage, etc.); sleeping in the open air should therefore be avoided in those countries. See Nose, Foreign Bodies, etc. {Parasites). Maceration.—The process of softening by steeping a hard substance in a liquid (usually water), as employed in Pharmacy ; the softening of the foetal tissues and their loading with blood- stained serum which occurs after antenatal death when the foetus is retained in the uterus and is not invaded by the germs of putrefaction. See Pregnancy, Intra-uterine Diseases {Death of the Foetus, Maceration). Macewen'S Osteotomy. See De- formities {Genu Valgum, Treatment). Macewen'S Symptom.—The oc- currence of increased resonance on combined auscultation and percussion of the skull in cases of distension of the lateral ventricles and other marked changes in the brain. Machlotes.—Nymphomania (Gr. fxa^ko^, lustful or lewd). Macies.—Emaciation ; macilency ; lean- ness. Macivor Process. — A method of manufacturing white lead; it is not free from the risk of plumbism to the workers. See Trades, Dangerous {Lead Poisoning). Mackenrodt's Operation. — An operation for vesico-vaginal fistula, in which an incision is made round the edge of the fistula, the vagina is separated from the bladder by blunt dissection, the vesical opening is closed by sutures, and the vaginal opening left to heal without being sutured. Mackenzie's Operation. —A method of performing amputation at the ankle- joint ; a modification of Syme's method. See Amputations {At the AnMe-Joint). Mackenzie's Polygraph. See Pulse {Pulse and Respiration, Clinical Poly- graph). Mackerel. See Snake-Bites and Poison- ous Fishes {Diseases due to Poisonous Fish) ; Toxicology {Food-Stuffs, Fish). Mackinnel's Ventilator.—A means of ventilating buildings, consisting of a double circular tube ; there is an inner outlet, and an outer inlet tube, the former of which rises above the latter and is protected by a cowl. Macleyine.—An alkaloid (C2(,Hj9N05) obtained by Eyckmann from Macleya cordata. Macro-. — In compound words macro- (Gr. fxaKpos, long), as a prefix, means large or long, e.g. 7nacrobiosis, longevity, etc. MacrO->Csthesia. —A disturbance of tactile sensation, in which bodies handled feel larger than they really are. Macrocephalia or Macro- Cephaly.—An anomaly in which the head is abnormally large; the term is not usually applied to the cases in which the enlargement is due to hydrocephalus. See Insanity, Patho- logy {Pathological Anatomy, Skull). Macrocheilia or Macrochelia. —Enlargement of the lips, congenital or acquired ; the upper lip only may be affected {epimacrochelia of Taruffi) or the lower one only {hypomacrochelia). The "Hapsburg" or " Leopold lip," so often found in the Austrian royal family, would appear to be an instance of hereditary hypomacrochelia; it may be asso- ciated with hypertrophy of the tongue (macro- glossia). See Lymphatic System, Physiology AND Pathology {Dilatation of Lymphatics). MacrOCheiria.—Enlargement of the hands, congenital or acquired.