MOUTH—INJURIES AND 467 DISEASES OF THE JAW The alteration in the patient's appearance would not be noticeable to a doctor who had not seen the patient before. Recurring Dislocation.—Sometimes there is a great tendency for the dislocation to recur. It may be quite frequently an act of yawning, etc., which may produce it. Dislocation of Inter-Articular Fibro-Cartilage. —A case of this kind has been described where there is dribbling of saliva and enlargement of the left submaxillary gland. This latter may have been due to injury of the corda tympani nerve. Treatment. — The simplest method is for an assistant to grasp the head of the patient firmly against his chest, while the surgeon, with his thumbs projecting, presses them as far back as possible upon the lower molar teeth, at the same time grasping the body of the jaw with his fingers. Firm pressure is then exerted by the thumbs in a direction downwards and back- wards so as to free the condyles from the articular eminence, and as soon as this is done the chin is raised by the fingers. Various apparatus have been described for forcing the jaw downwards. Long - standing Dislocations. — These are usually fairly easily reduced within the first two months. The longest period that has elapsed, and in which successful reduction has been obtained, is about ten months. If mani- pulation fails to reduce the dislocation, the condyle should be cut down upon and replaced with as little cutting of ligaments or muscle as possible. Recurring Dislocation.—The patient should "be cautioned against opening the mouth at all widely. If yawning cannot be prevented the chin should be well supported during the act. If dislocation occurs very frequently and easily an elastic bandage might be fitted to support the chin. In other cases the jaw may be kept absolutely immobile for a long period of time. Operative treatment has been considered neces- sary ; the joint has been cut down upon and the fibro-cartilage stitched to the external liga- ment near its attachment to the bone. Parasitic Diseases op the Jaw The fungus mycosis aspergilla has been found in the antrum of Highmore, and a curious form of distoma (fasciola hepatica) has been found in the pus escaping from an extensive alveolar abscess. These are quite surgical curiosities. A very important parasitic disease is actinomy- cosis. This disease usually occurs primarily in the jaws—the mandible more frequently than the maxilla. It may, however, occur primarily in almost any part of the body. It is a disease very commonly met with among cattle. The active agent is a fungus termed actinomyces, sometimes called the ray-fungus, from its characteristic appearance under the microscope. The fungus is taken in with the food, and may lodge in any part of the alimentary or respira- tory tracts. The jaws, however, are the struc- tures which seem especially prone to this disease, and the explanation is owing to the intimate relation that exists between the teeth and the jaws. During mastication the fungus is driven into some decaying focus in a tooth. Here it remains undisturbed, and gradually penetrates into the bone. Symptoms.—The earliest symptom is very often tenderness, and sometimes severe pain localised to one or more of the teeth, and on examination the affected teeth are found to be carious. This pain is generally attributed to ordinary decay of teeth—indeed, it would be impossible at that stage to ascertain whether actinomyces is present or not. Within a few weeks a swelling forms: in the case of the lower jaw it is usually situated in the region of the angle ; when the upper jaw is affected the swelling is usually noticed at some part of the cheek. On manipulation it is found that the swelling is firmly fixed to the jaw, and it may be either soft or hard. As the tumour increases in size the skin over it becomes red, rather tense, and finally fluctuations can be detected. If neglected, this swelling will ulti- mately burst, and a turbid, serous liquid escapes which contains in suspension small yellow granules. These are very characteristic in appearance, and consist of masses of fungus. The septic process that accompanies the growth of this fungus tends to become widely diffused, and various fistulse form communicating one with the other, and opening on the surface by numerous apertures sometimes quite crateriform in appearance. On probing the sinuses bone can readily be felt. The submaxillary lym- phatic glands become enlarged, and may sup- purate so that sinuses of various extent may be present in the neck. If the inflammation pro- gresses towards the ramus of the jaw it may interfere with the movements, and a condition known as "closure of the jaw" is produced. In slow-forming cases there is little or no temperature, but if the associated septic process is marked a somewhat hectic temperature may be present. Owing to the chronic discharge of pus we may have the usual changes associated with this condition. As a rule the course of the disease is chronic, lasting one or two years; it may, however, be very rapid and terminate fatally within three months. Prognosis.—Early eradication of the disease is the only hope for the patient. If the disease has been allowed to progress extensively the patient becomes emaciated, and is very liable to fatal complications, especially of the respira- tory organs. Secondary foci of the disease may appear in various organs, especially the lungs. The prognosis appears to be very serious when the upper jaw is aff'ected. In rare cases the disease has been cured by merely incising and