LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 38 mittent type is established, the temperature swinging from shghtly above to several degrees above the normal; or an intermittent type, the temperature swinging from the subnormal (per- haps 96"5° F.) to several degrees above the Chart V.—Showing intermittent type of temperature in patient witli widespread bilateral disease. normal (varieties of hectic). (See Chart V.) The opposing limits are thus widely separated, from about 96°-104° F. From time to time the different types may be established in relation to the same individual. Chart VI.—Illustrative of pyrexic disturbance produced by injection of 1 mgr. tuberculin for diagnostic purposes in patient in whom tubercle bacilli were unobtainable owing to absence of expectoration. The cause of the pyrexia is not quite clear. Clinically, it is not always determinable. It seems most reasonable to seek for it in the absorption of soluble toxins produced by the tubercle bacillus. And in support of this view may be cited the pyrexial disturbance pi'oduced by the introduction of tuberculin (see Chart VI.) and the violently swinging temperature in miliary dissemination throughout the lung. On the other hand, it must be recalled how fi'equently tubercle is present in the lung, in considerable ac- tivity, as judged by physical signs and expectora- tion, and simi- larly in other organs, without a trace of pyrexia from day to day. The presence of other organisms (streptococcus, staphyloc o c c u s) must be borne in mind, and the pyrexia attribut- ed, in part at least, to the mixed infection. The temperature chart sometimes recalls the chart of pyaemia not a little. This view is emphasised by the remarkably rapid change which is produced in the type of temperature, when the patient is placed under conditions of hyperaeration. In interpret- ing the tempera- ture record from day to day, it is to be borne in mind that the tuberculous pa- tient is unduly sensitive to dis- turbing influ- ences. Excite- ment (even the visits of friends), fatigue, worry, gastro- intestinal irritation, onset of menses, carious teeth, and the like, may each be sufficient to cause considerable per- turbation in the temperature wave. More pro- nounced pertur- bations suggest extension or complication, which must be sought for. A fresh focus of pulmonary disease may be found, with increased absorption of toxins (c/. the elevation of temperature induced by injecting even small doses of tuberculin into the tubercu- lous patient). Or there may be a miliary dis-