MILK 420 ing within thirty hours, whereas, when cow's milk is used more than half remains vmchanged at the end of three weeks. Kephir, a similar but less alcoholic prepara- tion, has, according to Kbnig, a mean composi- tion of Water . 91-21 Fat . 1-44 Albumin . 0-36 Alcohol , 075 Sugar . 2-41 Albumose . 0-30 Lactic acid. 1-02 Casein 2-83 Asli . . 0-68 But one sample examined by Hammarsten contained 3'088 of fat. The half-dozen bottles drunk daily in a " koumiss cure " constitute in themselves, as Dr. Stange observes, a scanty diet, but being highly digestible, slightly stimulating, and very refreshing, it assists the appetite for and digestion of other food, as the fat mutton which is a regular part of the course. It encourages the action of the heart, kidneys, and respiratory and digestive organs. It is especially beneficial in impaired nutrition, anfemia, chronic dyspepsia, mucous catarrhs, early phthisis, nervous ex- haustion, and convalescence from fevers and wasting diseases. It is contraindicated in organic disease of the heart and in acute inflammatory and congestive affections of the liver, kidney, uterus, etc., but useful in chronic nephritis, glycosuria, acute rheiimatism, etc. It is rarely given in acute fevers, but Sambrschitsky tried it in small but frequent doses in some apparently hopeless cases of enteric fever with conspicuous and unexpected success. Section V.—Pathological Milk, one of the best culture media for patho- genic bacteria, may, if drunk raw, be the means of spreading disease. It may be infected when secreted by a cow suffering from (a) a disease common to her and man ; (b) proper to her but communicable to man; or [f] (c) a human disease to which she is in some degree susceptible; or healthy milk may be infected by the hands of the milkers or others, or through admixture of specifically polluted water, enteric fever through water, and scarlatina and diphtheria by personal agency. No others have been proved to be thus propa- gated, though the presence of large numbers of intestinal, pyogenic, or simply saprophytic bacteria can scarcely fail to produce ill, albeit non-specific effects. The only communicable disease common to man and cattle is tuberculosis, but it surpasses in importance all others, the human and bovine forms being one and the same, and the alleged differences in the appear- ance of tubercular pleurisy and the grapes or pearl disease easily explaiiied by the peculiarities of the tissues. Tuberculosis in each is closely associated with overcrowding and defective ventilation, being practically unknown among the hardy cattle roaming without shelter throughout the year on prairie, steppe, or moor, but prevailing among dairy cows according to the length of time during which they are shut up in cow-houses, and most so among the tender Jerseys and cows of all breeds in virban dairies. An enormous proportion of milch cows are more or less affected, but there is no evidence of their milk being infective unless the mam- mary glands are involved. With the improved social and sanitary conditions of the masses in towns, the better ventilation of workshops, etc., there has been during the last thirty years a notable reduction in the mortality from every form of tuberculosis, except the mesenteric disease in infants, which has greatly increased, apparently pari passu with the increased em- ployment of cow's milk, to which one must ascribe a wholly preventable sacrifice of no fewer than 10,000 lives per annum in England and Wales, lives that might be saved by the simple expedient of boiling all milk for children. Of bovine diseases foot-and-mouth alone is indisputably communicable to man by the con- sumption of the unboiled milk of affected animals without change of character, the use of such milk being followed after an incubation of four or five days by febrile disturbance, and eczema of the hands, feet, and mouth, and in infants a severe and often fatal pneumonia. Garget, a specific mammitis, produces aphthoxis stomatitis in infants, and may cause eczema in the hands of the milkers. There is no evidence as to the effect of cattle plague, pleuro-pneu- monia, or anthrax in the milk, doubtless because the diseases themselves are so severe and deadly that the affected animals are never milked, but destroyed without delay. Whether human diseases can be imparted to the cow and retransferred to man through the milk is still suh judice, but from the history of the outbreak of a peculiar disease in Panter's dairy at Hendon in the year 1885, it appears that such is the case with scarlatina. Intro- duced by a cow bought in the market it at- tacked nearly every animal in three large sheds, a considerable interval elapsing between the invasions of the second and third. Epidemics of scarlatina beginning among the customers of the Hendon dairy, broke out in Marylebone, and, after an interval corresponding with the invasion of the last shed, in Hampstead, where the milk from that was separately sent. The symptoms in the cows were fever, difficult deglutition, and on erythematous and vesicular eruption, with desquamation and falling of the hair, while in a post-mortem examination of one Dr. Klein found nephritis, and in the urine streptococci resembling those of scarlatina. That the symptoms should differ in some respects from those seen in man is not more than one should expect; for instance, in the cat diphtheria always involves the lungs, whereas in the horse there a»e no lesions whatever, though the pro- duction of antitoxin proves the unchanged nature