NEPHRITIS 554 checked if the albuminuria is found to be in- creased. Quinine is also beneficial during con- valescence, and small doses of tincture of digi- talis, or of strophanthus, are usually of service when there is much weakness of the pulse. Chronic Nephritis. — Although it is always desirable to deal with the cause of any diseased process, this is difficult, and often impossible, with chronic nephritis. It is only when it appears dependent upon malaria, syphilis, or continued suppuration that it is possible to attack the cause with any hopefulness. Dietetic precautions are necessary when cases of acute nephritis are tending to a chronic course. Although many forms of routine medicinal treatment have been advocated for chronic nephritis, there is little evidence that they pro- duce beneficial results, and apart from tonic and hygienic measures treatment must be mainly symptomatic. Diminished urinary secretion, without dropsi- cal eifusion, may be treated by giving large quantities of liquid. If milk causes dyspeptic symptoms, imperial drink or home-made lemon- ade may be given ; both are taken more readily if made mildly effervescent. Strophanthus, digitalis, caffeine, or theobromine may do good by increasing the circulation through the kidney. Potassium iodide may be of service, but it is more beneficial when there is dropsical effusion. Efforts are sometimes made to reduce the amount of albumin eliminated by limiting the albuminous matter given in the diet. It is generally a mistake to interfere thus with the dietary, if the strength and the general health improve during the administration of nitrogenous food. Should hfematuria occur, the case is to be treated as acute nephritis. The amount of albumin may sometimes be reduced by keeping the patient in bed for a few days. With the same object, astringents, such as lead acetate, iron, ergot, tannic acid, and gallic acid, have been employed, but they may disturb digestion. Dropsy during the early stages may be in- fluenced by medicinal remedies, similar to those employed in acute nephritis, but later the fluid may require removal by acupuncture, incision, or by Southey's tubes, great care being taken to avoid sepsis. Ursemic symptoms may develop when there has been long-continued diminution in the daily excretion of urine. Of the two forms, acute and chronic, the latter is most commonly met with in connection with chronic nephritis, and it is, happily, readily affected by diaphoretic and diuretic measures. For persistent headache or sleeplessness nitrites may be used, either by inhalation or by the mouth. Nitroglycerin is perhaps preferable to amyl nitrite, as the effect, though produced more slowly, is more lasting; recently erythrol tetranitrate has been recom- mended to produce more prolonged reduction of blood-pressure. Sleeplessness may be treated, like that of acute nephritis, with bromides, chloral, or with hyoscine. Morphine has been recommended as a palliative in ursemic symp- toms, but the use of morphine or opium in chronic nephritis is usually regarded with anxiety. Vomiting may cause considerable weakness, and has often to be met by nutrient enemata. Urgent diarrhoea is occasionally con- trolled by enemata containing opium, but astrin- gents are rarely attended by success. When dyspnoea is associated with heart weakness it may be treated with cardiac stimulants, while, when associated with much lung engorgement, expectorant measures give better results. When the dyspnoea appears to be of ursemic origin, purgatives, diaphoretics, and diuretics should be employed. In the early stages, before the illness is sufficient to interfere wholly with the ordinary occupation, benefit may result from rearrange- ment of habits and work. While it is distinctly undesirable to continue any occupation involving physical strain, worry, or mental excitement, it is inexpedient to insist upon complete separation from work. Subacute attacks with hsematuria may be averted by the use of woollen garments and of a broad flannel belt over the loins. When circvimstances permit, patients with chronic nephritis should be sent to a warm climate during the winter months. Torquay, Ventnor, or Bournemouth may be recommended, but greater advantages may be derived from a winter spent in Egypt or Algeria. Renal Cirrhosis.—The treatment of renal cirrhosis to some extent resembles that of chronic nephritis, but this resemblance is mainly characteristic of the later stages of the disease, the earlier conditions frequently necessi- tating special forms of treatment. It is very rarely possible to deal directly with the cause of the disease, though when due to gout, to lead-poisoning, or to syphilis, these various conditions should be treated on general prin- ciples. Usually, however, the recognition of cirrhosis of the kidney is only made when the disease has probably been in existence for a lengthened period, and the treatment must accordingly be mainly symptomatic. Since the risks of cirrhosis of the kidney are undoubtedly influenced by external conditions, it has been recommended that ordinary occupa- tions should be entirely given up. If, however, the daily routine is fairly free from anxiety and worry, and the symptoms are not severe, it is better for the occupation to be continued. Residence during the winter months in warm or temperate climates is advisable, and warm clothing, especially flannel or woollen garments, should be worn. To control the cirrhotic changes within the kidney, potassium iodide is often advocated,