71 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—PNEUMONOKONIOSIS desirable. When, notwithstanding attention to purer aeration and cleanliness during working and off-times, symptoms continue or increase, the patient should, if possible, change his em- ployment, preferably adopting an open-air life. Sometimes a change from one department to another in the same trade may suffice. Thus the building mason suffers less than does the hewer. Theoretically, a light gauze respirator should prove helpful by entangling a portion of the dust. It is not easy to get workmen to make use of them. B. Therapeutic.—The indications are similar to those in chronic bronchitis, emphysema, bronchiectasis, or pulmonary tuberculosis, and vary according to the nature and stage of the individual case. These are considered else- where. In addition to diluting the dusty atmosphere as fully as possible by proper methods of ventilation, the patient should be taught to counterbalance the disadvantage of his work conditions by an extra allowance of fresh air after working hours by day and during the night. Any tendency to heart failure must be combated by rest and suitable tonics. Gangrene of Lungs Definition Etiology Pathology Symptoms Physical Signs Differential Diagnosis Treatment 71 71 72 72 73 73 73 Definition.—Necrosis of a portion of lung tissue which, by the introduction of some septic or putrefactive organism, undergoes a foetid decomposition. Etiology.—Gangrene is a rare affection and is always secondary to some other disease. In all the older writers on the subject, from Laennec onwards, gangrene of lungs has been described as an occasional accompaniment of a number of diseases; but the reason for its appearance has remained in obscurity. It is now recognised that, unless putrefactive organisms are intro- duced, death of the lung tissue will only be followed by caseation or by the formation of an abscess. This is not all, however, because in many conditions of lung disease putrefactive organisms may be present in the bronchi or (as in the case of advanced tuberculous disease) in a cavity in the lungs, without the occurrence of gangrene. On reviewing the various diseases, in the course of which pulmonary gangrene appears, it will be found that in a considerable proportion some general condition is present which tends to lower vitality and to impair nutrition. Gangrene is therefore due to the combination of several circumstances. 1. A general disease or condition causing debility and lessening the resisting power of the tissues. 2. A local disease inducing necrosis or death of part of the lung. 3. The introduction of a septic or specific micro-organism which causes decomposition and putrefaction of the dead tissue. (1) Predisposing Causes.—-Pulmonary gan- grene occurs in a course of diabetes, scurvy, chronic nephritis (rarely), syphilis, and in the debility following typhus and typhoid fevers, or associated with alcoholism, starvation, or old age. In all these cases there is either a profound alteration of blood which interferes with the proper nutrition of the tissues or there is a feeble resisting power, so that the individual cell cannot cope with the invading organism. (2) In many of these cases the local incident which precedes gangrene of lungs is pneumonia. Diabetes sometimes terminates fatally in this manner. In many campaigns (happily more often in the past than at present) this combina- tion of pneumonia and gangrene has occurred in soldiers exhausted by fatigue or insufficient food, or suffering from scurvy (as in the Crimean War ; see AUbutt's System of Medicine, vol. V. p. 598), or from typhus fever, which in former times was the scourge of armies. In the latter case, as in enteric fever, the local cause may be pneumonia or a pulmonary infarct caused by the detachment of a clot from a thrombosed vein. Thrombosis of a branch of the pulmonary artery will occasionally lead to gangrene during the convalescence from fevers or in pysemic conditions. Pulmonary tuberculosis is occasionally, though rarely, accompanied by gangrene. At Brompton Hospital, out of 312 autopsies on cases of tuberculous disease of lungs occurring in two years, 4 cases of gangrene of lungs occurred. Of these, two occurred in patients who were the subjects of pronounced syphilis. In other years the occurrence of gangrene is rather less frequent, but syphilitics who are also the subjects of pulmonary tuberculosis seem especially prone to gangrene. Cases of pneumonia from the inhalation of particles of food are apt to become gangrenous probably from the putrefaction of the foreign material. The so-called deglutition pneumonia occurs in cases upon whom tracheotomy has been performed, also in the last stages of diseases, when there is inability to swallow, and it is probable that this form of inhalation pneumonia is the cause of gangrene of lungs that occasion- ally occurs amongst the insane. Bronchiectasis not infrequently terminates with gangrene. The secretions retained in the dilated bronchi are iisually extremely offensive from their decomposition; and if ulceration of bronchi takes place a local pneumonia, with the