MYIASIS 509 the use of cobweb as a styptic are occasionally recorded. Within recent years an extract of spiders has been used as a remedy in malaria. Myriapoda, Scorpions, etc. — The sting of European varieties is comparatively harmless. In hot countries the sting may cause alarm- ing or fatal results, very similar to those de- scribed under bees and wasps. The poison seems to vary considerably in power. Severe symptoms, however, occur in a large proportion of cases. Treatment.—Ipecacuanha powder applied to the wound in form of a paste is the most widely known antidote. Chloroform stupes in addition will relieve the pain. The most eificient appli- cations for the relief of both pain and swelling are chloral, 3 parts; camphor, 1 part; menthol- camphor and similar combinations—the skin to be punctured with a needle and the remedies rubbed in. Hypodermic injection of cocaine, gr. \-\, is said to give instant relief to the pain and to prevent subsequent ill-effects. It is interesting to note that the ancient Persian treatment of scorpion stings consisted in "anointing the wound with the oil of these animals—extracted by frying." Ants.—Indigenous species may be regarded as inoffensive except when occasionally they overrun our houses. It is often difficult in these cases to localise and destroy the ant-hills. Abroad they often constitute a plague both by the frequency of their bites and stings, and by their power of penetration through any substance except metal. " Willesden patent paper " is said to be impervious to them. The " ants of visitation " {Atta cephalotes) are said by Kirby and Spence to be " so alarming and tremendous in their attacks, that if they enter the house in the night, the inhabitants are obliged to rise with all speed and run off in their shirts." Travellers in tropical countries protect them- selves when sleeping out of doors by a hair rope surrounding their sleeping - place. The ants, finding no secure hold on the long and loose hairs, slide or fall down, and try all night to find a less difficult place of entrance. The rope must be shaken each morning to dislodge any insects remaining in it, and replaced before dark. In this connection a curious case may be noted where post-mortem injuries, eventually found to be due to ants (staining and apparent bruising of skin), were attributed to ante- mortem violence. Hairy caterpillars and other cetaceous larvse are well known as causing skin irritation (urti- caria, etc.) by contact with the skin. The irri- tation, swelling, and itching may be extremely severe, and may spread far beyond the parts actually pierced or poisoned by the sharp hairs and acrid secretions of the caterpillar's cuticle. The occurrence of a number of cases of this kind in a boys' school has given rise to diffi- culty, on account of the resemblance to an infectious epidemic. Similar, though, as a rule, less severe effects are produced by certain hairy plants, such as the nettle. Primula obconica, arnica, mezereon, various species of rhus. In the glandular structures connected with the hairs, irritant substances have been isolated, " toxicodendric acid," etc. Treatment is to be applied by alkalies and local sedatives, and removal of the offending cause when discovered. In Indian forests, where the caterpillar Cnetho-campia processionea is abundant, cloths require to be tied over the mouth and nostrils, for if hairs are inhaled, oedema of the throat may ensue. Flies may act as Carriers of Infection.—This has been experimentally proved in the case of cholera. Observations have shown the presence of tubercle bacilli in the bodies and excreta of flies which have visited phthisical sputum ; anthrax has been traced to the bites of flies from diseased carcases, and the purulent oph- thalmia of Egypt is obviously transferred from eye to eye by the same agency. The list might be prolonged ; and it is clearly evident that the insanitary conditions of hot countries, together with the swarming insect life, must provide many illustrative instances. Syphilis is less likely to be propagated, since the parts affected are in general covered up. Father Damien attributed his leprosy to the inoculation by a fly of an abrasion of the scalp. Infected flies may be chopped up with sausage meat, and thus disseminate disease. It is stated that yellow fever can be trans- mitted by mosquitoes which have bitten a patient on the third to sixth day (inclusive) of the disease, and that in the case of one or two bites, only a benign form is transmitted. Preventive inoculation by this method has been suggested. MylabriS.—The dried beetle Mylabris phalerata; it has the same action and uses as Cantharides (q.v.), and it contains cantharidin. It is one of the drugs of the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the British Pharmacopoeia, and there are five official preparations (all for external use) : (1) Acetum Mylabridis; (2) Emplastrum Calefaciens Mylabridis ; (3) Ernplastrum Myla- bridis ; (4) Liquor Epispasticus Mylabridis; and (5) Unguentum Mylabridis. It is some- times known as Chinese blistering fly. MylO-. — In compound words mylo- (Gr. /xvAt?, a mill or nether grindstone) means re- lating to the molar (or grinding) teeth ; e.g. myloglossus (a muscle attached to the angle of the lower jaw), mylohyoid (a mviscle attached to the hyoid bone and lower jaw), mylopharyn- geus, etc.