MENINGITIS, EPIDEMIC CEREBRO-SPINAL 331 spinal fever. The leucocytosis is rarely so high in tuberculous meningitis, nor is it so persistent. The simple meningitis of children — the posterior basic—which is probably the sporadic form of cerebro-spinal fever, is much more common during the first year of life than the tuberculous, but equally common during the second year, and above the second year the tuberculous form is very much more frequent (Barlow and Lee). (6) From Pneumococcic Meningitis. — This occurs in three groups. First: meningitis which is a complication of lobar pneumonia. In many cases the condition is latent and is recog- nised only post-mortem. It is much more frequent in adults than in children. On the other hand, the cerebral type of pneumonia with marked meningitic symptoms, but without meningeal lesions, is most common in children. In the meningitis of pneumonia spinal symptoms are rare. Nauwerck, who analysed 29 cases, found the convexity of the brain alone involved in 4 ; in 16, both cortex and base ; and in 7, the cortex, base, and spinal cord. In only 7 of the cases was there any rigidity of the neck muscles. Strabismus was present in one-fifth of the cases, ptosis only once. As the spinal meninges are so rarely affected, the fluid obtained by lumbar puncture may be negative, as happened in a recent case under my care. Secondly: pneumococcic meningitis from local infection, either from the nose, from the adjacent sinuses, from the ear, or following an injury to the skull, or an operation. Thirdly: primary pneumococcic meningitis. This seems to be much more common in France tlian in either Great Britain or America. Of 8 cases of pneumococcic meningitis in the pathological department of the Johns Hopkins Hospital, only 1 was primary. The diagnosis of this primary form from sporadic cases of cerebro-spinal fever can only be made by the lumbar puncture. The pneumococcus can usually be differentiated from the diplococcus intracellularis. (c) From Pyogenic Meningitis. — This is almost invariably secondary. The cases follow injury, or occur in connection with disease of the ear or of the nose and its sinuses. The cerebral symptoms are marked, and there is rarely the characteristic grouping seen in cerebro-spinal fever. The otitic group of cases in this series is most important, and one has constantly to bear in mind the extraordinary cerebral manifestations that may be associated with otitis media in children. An interesting- form is what may be called the terminal variety of pyogenic meningitis. In debilitated children and in persons suffering from chronic wasting diseases there may be a meningitis, chiefly basilar, which is due to the streptococci or staphylococci, and which is very often latent and occurs during the last few days or the last week of life. Prognosis.—Meningitis in all forms, as seen in ordinary practice, is one of the most fatal of diseases. On the other hand, recovery from the meningitis of cerebro-spinal fever occurs in a considerable proportion of all cases. The mortality may be said to be from 30 to 70 per cent. Of 23 cases under my care in the past few years, 9 died. Recovery in a case with all the features of a cerebro-spinal meningitis is in favour of the diagnosis of this form. The posterior basic meningitis or simple meningitis of children is also characterised by a very con- siderable proportion of recoveries—a point in favour of the view that it is only a sporadic variety of cerebro-spinal fever. Treatment. — Careful nursing is most im- portant, as the patients are difficult to feed and there is a marked tendency to bed-sores. The diet should be milk, albumin water, and meat broths. Stimulants may be given when the heart gets feeble, and in some instances we have used with benefit the subcutaneous in- fusions of salt solution. As a systematic treat- ment the warm baths, at 100° F., introduced by Aufrecht, are perhaps the most satisfactory. Tliey are given every three hours. In the very emaciated cases, with bed-sores, the patient may be in a continuous warm bath; in cases of moderate severity the bath may be given only three times a day. Of medicines the only one that we have found worth using is opium in some form, to allay the pain and to quiet the delirium in the more severe cases. Mercury, the salicylates, and the bromides and iodides have been extensively used, but it is doubtful whether they have the slightest influence on the course of the disease. Crede's silver ointment, con- taining, so it is said, 15 per cent of soluble metallic silver, has been much used by some in the recent epidemic. Half a drachm for a child and a drachm for an adult is rubbed into the skin three times a day. Has the lumbar puncture any therapeutic value 1 On this point opinions differ. Williams and Netter believe that beneficial effects follow ; Wentworth, whose experience has been very large, is sceptical on this point. In a few instances I think we have seen decided relief follow the lumbar puncture; and Netter, in papers more recent than his article in the Ttventieth Century Practice, has spoken most strongly in favour of repeated lumbar puncture as a therapeutic measure. In two instances in my wards the spinal meninges were opened and drained. Both cases were fatal. Men i ng'ism. — Pseudo-meningitis in which there is a marked resemblance to the tubercular form; hysterical phenomena due to vascular meningeal disturbances.