NEPHRITIS 537 Cold.—The influence of cold in the production of acute nephritis has already been mentioned, and there is common agreement that frequent exposure to wet, and residence in damp and cold climates, also favour the onset of the chronic form. It is somewhat doubtful, how- ever, whether the cold acts as a direct cause of nephritis, or whether it merely increases predisposition to the disease. It has been suggested that congestion due to cold might develop an old-standing nephritis — that, for instance, after various exanthemata, more particularly scarlet fever, some permanent damage is done to the kidney, which causes no symptoms until engorgement, the result of exposure, once more starts the morbid processes. Fregnancy.—Pregnancy has been sometimes assigned as a cause of chronic nephritis. As a rule the albuminuria of puerperal nephritis subsides soon after delivery, and when the albuminuria is persistent, there appears to be little doubt that the nephritis originated previously and independently of pregnancy. Chronic Suppuration.—Chronic suppuration from phthisis, necrosed bone, or other cause, may produce chronic affection of the kidneys. The change that results is usually a form of lardaceous disease, but this alteration is very frequently accompanied by chronic nephritis. The lardaceous changes are as a rule more advanced in children, while the nephritic changes are more marked in adults. Malaria.—The influence of malaria as an etiological factor for chronic nephritis is open to considerable doubt. Some authors have associated chronic nephritis with malarial dis- tricts, but there is very little to show that a pure form of nephritis may result from malarial influences. Observations made in Algiers and Bombay show, however, that in these places the association of chronic Bright's disease with malaria is as marked as it is in colder climates ; hence the supposition that malarial nephritis is essentially due to exposure to cold scarcely seems tenable. Syphilis.—The connection with syphilis is fairly close, and chronic changes within the kidney may occur independently of the growth of renal gummata. Toxic Agents,~ln some cases chronic nephritis has been attributed to the use of mercury, while lead is also said to cause a form of chronic inflammation of the kidneys of the same nature. The connection between chronic nephritis and lead poisoning is not so strong as between gout and lead poisoning, which are so often associated with cirrhosis of the kidney. Alcohol.—The relation of chronic alcoholism to chronic nephritis is less open to dispute, though it is more likely to lead to renal cirrhosis than to chronic nephritis. Secondary to other Conditions. — Chronic nephritis occurs fairly commonly as the result of chronic diseases of the urinary passages. Chronic stricture of the urethra, purulent cystitis and prostatitis, and calculous pyelitis may give rise to chronic nephritis associated with lardaceous changes. Renal Cirrhosis In a disease which is so chronic in its nature, the etiology necessarily becomes somewhat un- certain. It is often impossible, in any particular case, to ascribe the origin conclusively to any definite exciting cause. Age.—\t is very rare to find this form of kidney disease amongst children, or even amongst young adults. Towards middle life, however, the tendency to cirrhosis is greatly increased; the majority of cases occur between the ages of forty and sixty, while from thirty to forty the proportion is about equal to that which occurs between sixty and seventy. It must be remembered that this form of kidney trouble is likely to escape observation ; and it may have existed for years previous to the actual recognition. Most of the cases of albu- minuria met with in assurance work fall into two classes, both marked by the presence of traces of albumin, and by the slight character or the total absence of symptoms. The age of the proposer is of importance in diff"erentiating these two classes. While slight albuminuria during early life is often to be regarded as functional or intermittent, the slight trace of albumin in later middle age is generally the result of contracted kidney. Sex.—Males are more frequently aff'ected than females. According to Fagge the pro- portion is almost exactly in the ratio of two to one. Others have placed the proportion more highly. Heredity.—Although the hereditary character of renal cirrhosis has attracted the attention of numerous observers, the hereditary tendency is not so marked as in the case of phthisis or cancer. It is frequently interesting to note the occurrence of cirrhosis or other forms of kidney trouble in various members of a family, and although it is customary to regard this associa- tion as pointing to the hereditary character of cirrhosis of the kidney, it may be questioned whether it does not point rather to the heredi- tary character of the conditions likely to produce the disease. This contention is largely sup- ported by the frequent association of cirrhosis of the kidney with gouty tendencies. Gout.—The intimate connection of renal cirrhosis with gout has long been recognised. It is generally held that gout predisposes to the development of renal cirrhosis, and I have often seen the gradual development of albuminuria with repeated attacks of gout. It has been held, however, that gout may be the consequence rather than the cause of the renal affection, and that it results from the failure of the kidney to