335 MENOPAUSE, THE menopause is associated with the commencement of rheumatoid arthritis. Here again we shall not be able to trace the exact connection till the minute pathology of rheumatoid arthritis has been made out much more clearly than it is at present. Whether the primary fault is nervous, or nutritional, or chemical, we do not yet know. Practically, it is important to be alert in recognising the early and more curable stage of this terrible disease and to treat it seriously from the first. Many cases of rheumatoid arthritis can be absolutely cured if not neglected in the first weeks of symptoms. (See " Rheumatoid Arthritis.") Treatment.—The diagnosis being made, and all structural disease eliminated, the indication is to assist nature to re-establish nervous and vascular equilibrium, and for this, hygiene, interpreted somewhat broadly, is usually sufficient. The patient must be instructed and encouraged to put a little less than hitherto into her system and to take a little more than before out of it. All the organs of elimination must be kept well up to their work. Warm bathing, flesh-glove rubbing, mild laxatives, an occasional blue pill, plenty of fresh air, a simple and somewhat spare dietary, long nights, and a little patience, are in ordinary cases all that is wanted. Alcohol, even in moderate doses and in the mildest form, is much better avoided. When a stimu- lant is really indicated, quinine and strychnia with hydrobromic acid answer the purpose adequately, and these remedies have the merit of not being seductive. In cases of more severity, where the vascular and nervous systems are at all seriously dis- turbed, mild purgation followed by a short course of bromides and a fairly long one of Liq. ferri perchlor., combined with Liq. amm. acet., will usually quickly give relief. In climac- teric melancholia good results seem to follow far more quickly from eliminating agents— especially from pil. hydrar., in moderate doses every other night, and a saline every morning, for ten or twelve days—than from tonics. In all grave cases of nervous disturbance at the climacteric it should be borne in mind that many things often conspire with the menopause to break down the equilibrium of the nervous system even of the educated and comfortable classes. The mother of a large family has by no means a very easy life when she is about fifty. Her growing-up children, even if in all important respects satisfactory and dutiful, often work her much harder than as nursery children they did twenty years earlier. She has many to think for and to suit. The house is rarely quiet; each son and daughter brings friends—the duty of combining all the party and making the domestic machine move on oiled wheels is the mother's. The constant large parties at meals are a fatigue. The family holidays give her no rest. It is more trying to carry on life in lodgings or in a country house than at home, with a larger party and often fewer servants. For a patient so placed there is absolutely nothing so good, when she wants it and when it is possible to order it, as a real holiday, away from her family, and with no duties and no housekeep- ing. A month at Buxton or any similar place, under conditions of absolute rest, is of the greatest value. Where getting away from home is impossible, as it too often is, the patient should be induced to follow for a time, say two or three months, definite rules of life, which should include at least two hours of complete quietness and solitude each day, long nights, and three or four large warm baths each week. Our aim is to find the conditions which favour or permit the readjustment of the nervous and vascular equilibrium, knowing that in almost all cases nature will accomplish this if not hindered by interfering circumstances. Menori'hclg'icl. — Excessive menstrual flow. See Menstruation and its Disorders lyMenorrhagia and Metrorrhagia). See also Chlorosis (Si/tnptoms); Ectopic Gestation (General Symptoms): Gynaecology, Diagnosis in ; Heart, Affections of Myocardium and Endocardium {Effects of Cardiac Disease); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Complications, Uro- genital) ; Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exoph- thalmic Goitre, Symptoms, Genito - tirinary) ; Trades, Dangerous {Lead-Poisoning, Symptoms); Uterus, Displacements of ; Uterus, Inflamma- tions of ; Uterus, Non-malignant Tumours of ; Uterus, Malignant Tumours op. MenostclSiS. — Suppression of the men- strual flow. Menses. — The recurrent monthly dis- charge of blood mixed with mucus from the uterus. See Menstruation and its Disorders. Menstrua.!.—Relating to menstruation {q.v.). Menstruation and its Dis- orders. Menstruation— Terminology ..... 336 Piiherty ...... 336 Normal Menstrvxition . . .337 The Menopause .... 340 Vicarious Menstruation . . . 340 The Hygiene of Menstrual Life . . 341 Amenorrhcea— Primary . . . . . .341 Secondary— Local Causes .... 342 General Causes .... 343 Treatment ..... 343