MILK 417 depends rather on the size of the fat globules than on the actual percentage of fat, though it is artificially thickened by a solution of cane- sugar in lime-water, known in the trade as " viscogen." "Devonshire" or clotted cream, raised spontaneously from milk kept for many hours at a temperature of 120° to 160° F., contains 60 per cent to 70 per cent of fat, and more than the normal amount of casein and coagulated albumins. All " spontaneous " changes occurring in milk are the work of bacteria, some converting the sugar into lactic acid, others coagulating the casein with, or, as in the preparation of the German sauermilch, almost withovit souring, and others again setting up putrefaction, or even developing poisons, as tyrotoxin, without other appreciable alteration. " Ropy " milk is due to the action of certain bacteria on the casein; and abnormal colours, as blue milk, green, red, and an unnatural yellowness, to the growth of bacteria introduced from without or present in purulent secretions in the udders themselves. Section II.—Physiological The milks of all mammalia consist of water holding in actual or virtual solution salts, sugar, casein, and other albumins, with minute glob- ules of fat uniformly suspended, though tend- ing to rise in consequence of their lower specific gravity. The proportions, absolute and relative, of the several constituents vary, those of the fat especially, but within narrow limits, so that the composition of the milk is fairly constant for the species, the race, and the individual. Casein is an albumin, but possesses characters distinguishing it from the others, as its coagula- tion when acted on by the gastric secretion, but not by heat, and the casein of one animal differs from that of another. Ignoring those of the carnivora, rodents, etc., with which we are not concerned, milks fall under two types : (1) the ruminant; (2) the human, the asinine, and the equine. Save as the source of the original kumys, mare's milk has no dietetic interest, being too laxative for ordinary use. The essential difference between the milks of the first and second types is not so much in the percentages of the sugar and fat, as in the character of the casein, and the actual and relative proportions of the caseins to the other albumins. Though the importance of fat in nutrition cannot be too strongly insisted on, that of the digestibility of the albuminoids is still greater in the first three or four months of life. And Klemm, von Ranke, and Parrot have proved conclusively the superiority of asses' milk over any preparation of that of the cow in rearing premature and feeble infants notwithstanding its deficiency in fat. The casein of cow's milk forms in the stomach a dense and hard curd, whereas the coagula of VOL. VI human and of asses' milk are soft and floccu- lent; and human casein, as Wrobelewski finds, does not, like that of the cow, give rise to the indigestible nucleins. The practice of reckoning all albuminoids as casein without distinction is a grave error in dietetics, and accounts for the failure of most attempts at accommodating cow's milk to the requirements of infancy. It is easy enough by diluting cow's milk, thus reducing the percentage of sugar, casein, and fat, and adding sugar of milk, to obtain a milk identical on paper with mother's milk, but the difficulty arising from the indi- gestibility of the casein remains. The only procedures meriting the description of " humanising" are those that aim at com- bining a maximum of the fat and of the albumin, which, explain it as we may, for the most part goes over with it, and a minimum of the casein. The most perfect process is that of Professor Gaertner, which consists in the slow centrifugal- ising of warm diluted milk, to the richer portion of which milk sugar is added, and the whole made up by further dilution to the proper volume.^ Some dairy companies achieve the same result by substituting for the centrifugal- isation a modification of the Jersey method of raising cream, and lastly, it may be imitated, though less perfectly, by adding cream and milk sugar to freely diluted milk. But the small table separators worked by hand are well suited for Gaertnerising at home, and no other process approaches it in the precision and con- stancy of the result. Save as regards the cow, the discrepancies in the published analyses of the milks of different animals are so great as to deprive them of much vahie; but this is not of such importance as it might appear, since though later on a growing infant requires a " rich" milk, in the first three months of life the casein question casts all others into the background. The following may be taken as averages from the best analyses :— ' Good fresh cow's milk, diluted with an equal volume of hot water, is centrifugalised at such a velocity that the richer and poorer portions pass over at the same rate ; milk sugar is then added to the richer half in the pro- portion of 35 grams to the litre, i.e. 310 grains or 5 drachms to the pint (and for infants under one month, one part of barley-water to two or three of the milk). Animal. Water. Casein. Albu- min. Fat. Sugar. Salts. Cow 87-0 3-3 0-4 3-8 4-8 0-7 Goat 86-0 3-5 0-9 4-6 4-3 0-7 Woman 88-0 1-0 0-7 3-3 6-8 0-2 Ass . 90-0 0-9 0-6 1-2 6-8 0-5 Mare— Konig 90-7 1-25 0-75 1-17 5-7 0-37 Vieth . 90-0 1-9 1-1 6 7 0-3 Fleischmann . 91-0 2-0 1-0 5-6 0-4 Seeland: taken \ 91-42 2-93 1-82 3-6 0-22 on the steppes J