MEMORY IN HEALTH AND DISEASE 303 explanation of this form of loss of memory is to be found in some serious injury to some of the important nerve associations in the cortex, or to grave nutrient or circulatory changes in the cerebrum. (2) Partial Destruction of il/emories.—Partial amnesias are common as the result of localising lesions in the cerebrum. Many of these have been referred to in the article on "Aphasia" (vol i. p. 232), where the various groups of memories associated with the speech faculty have been considered. In the cerebral hemi- spheres we have various centres where are grouped the memories associated with special sensations and actions. We have areas where are grouped the visual memories, others where are grouped the auditory, others the motor, and so on; and any destructive lesion or lesions interfering with the nourishment of those par- ticular areas interferes or blots out the special memories stored in them. Thrombosis, embol- ism, haemorrhage, injuries, etc., are apt to pro- duce partial amnesias, the symptoms varying according to the seat of the lesion. Reference to this will be found in the articles in which these lesions are considered. Sufficient to say here that these partial amnesias may be temporary, or they may be permanent, according as the condition causing them is capable of being cured or not. (3) Progressive Amnesias. — This group in- cludes those cases of loss of memory where there is a gradual progressive loss. I do not wish to include in it those cases due to focal lesion in the cerebrum, where the area involved gradually increases in extent as from thrombosis. These cases come in reality under the partial amnesias, as one centre and its memories simply become involved in the lesion after the other. The cases coming under this group are those due to a gradual regression or degeneration of the nervous system, such as one sees in dementia, where the highest and least stable memories are blotted out first, the next in order follow, until the most stable, the organic memories, only are left. The patient, from being a highly intellectual human being, becomes a mere vegetating or living animal. The most recently acquired functions disappear first; the earliest, associated with the mere organic functions, disappear last, following a law of regression. The most typical example is seen in dementia, but it may also be seen in other degenerative diseases of the brain. (c) and (d). Difficulty in reviving Memories hy Will, and by a Similar Impression.—-In some conditions where there is a focal lesion of the brain, or where there is a general lowering of the vital processes, the person may have a difficulty in recollecting something or other. This is seen in old people. They may forget proper names, nouns, etc. The memory of such names is stored in their cerebrum, be- cause immediately the name is mentioned they recognise it as the name they wanted to recall. It is supposed that owing to the lowered vital condition of the brain the impulse from within is not able to rouse the old memory, especially when the memory has few associations such as a proper name or a substantive, whilst the old memories of these having many associations, such as verbs, etc., are more easily recalled. When a memory cannot be recalled from below, that is by a similar impression to the original impression or an association of the original impression, there is usually some focal lesion cutting off the particular sense organ from its centre in the cortex, as one sees in lesions in the occipital lobe, where persons cannot name objects at sight, although they can speak about and use the names of such objects in general conversation. These two groups, however, have also a distinct relation to aphasia, and are there referred to. III. Defects dub to Non-Recognition AFTER Revival These conditions are usually due to want of proper associations of the memory. They are not recognised because they have not been properly associated or linked to some other memory. How recognition comes about may be shown by a simple illustration. One person may say to another, "Do you remember me?" " No, I don't remember you." " Don't you remember seeing me last year in London?" At once the answer is, " Oh, I remember now." Whenever the association was given the old memory was recalled and recognised. Defects of recognition are seen in some diseases of the brain, as in object blindness where the person does not recognise objects which ought to be familiar to him. It is seen in gross lesions of the cortex, especially if in both hemispheres, but is also seen in the delirium of fevers and other diseases where the person may not be able to recognise people and things round him. IV. Hypermnesia or Excitations of Memory As people naturally vary in their capacity for remembering, so it follows that it is difficult determining when there is a slight excitation of memory. There may be a general hypermnesia where all memory is excited. There is a great increase of the memory pictures which arise in the brain. One scene or picture passes rapidly after the other—in fact, there is an increased cerebration. This condition arises where there is an increase in the blood circulating in the brain, as in fevers and the early stages of brain disease, also in states of excitement, in hysteria, and in the hypnotic state. There may not only be an increase in the blood going to the brain, but it may be altered in quantity and contain con- stituents which excite the cortical cells. This