MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 194 forms may be further subdivided into {a) the typical or nodular scir7-hus, (b) the slow-growing or atrophic scu'rhus, and (c) the rapidly growing or acute cancer. In like manner the diffuse forms may be subdivided into (a) diffuse scir- rhus, (6) the diffuse atrophic cancer, and (c) the diffuse inflammatory cancer. The diffuse form may arise as an extensive cancerous degeneration of the parenchyma, but it may also result from a rapid and diffuse lymphatic dissemination from a primary nodule. Hence a carcinoma which at an early stage appears as a circum- scribed tumour may in its later stages present itself as a diffuse growth. Of these varieties by far the commonest is the nodular scirrhus, and we will therefore take it to illustrate the main points in the morbid anatomy, symptom- atology, and progress of cancer of the breast. If a breast containing a typical nodidar scirrhus be sliced through the tumour, the latter cuts with a creaking sensation, and the cut surface generally becomes slightly concave owing to the cicatrisation of the central and older part of the tumour, this part having a white and somewhat streaky appearance, mottled with yellow points due to fatty degeneration. The peripheral and growing part of the tumour has a bluish - grey, or greyish - pink, faintly translucent appearance, and is either homogeneous or slightly mottled with minute haemorrhagic points. The edge of the growth, although it may appear to be sharply defined, is in reality everywhere invad- ing the surrounding tissue, so that islands of fat or traces of parenchyma are often embedded in the peripheral portion of the tumour. The tumour is never encapsulated. Microscopically, the central portion is mainly fibrous, the epithelial clusters being small, with their cells compressed and more or less degener- ated, the whole appearance resembling that seen in an atrophic scirrhtis. At the growing edge, on the other hand, the cell clusters are large and abundant, the stroma being scanty, so that the appearance resembles that seen in the more rapidly growing or encephaloid cancer. The malignant epithelial cells, which are the essential elements of the tumour, insinuate themselves into the lymph spaces of the adjacent tissues and dilate them to form the so-called alveolar spaces of the cancer. In the meshes of the stroma, more especially at the invading edge of the tumour, are numerous leucocytes. The tumour tissue may be distinguished from the adjacent gland parenchyma not only by its atypical or non-glandular arrangement, but also by a marked difference in the morphological characters of the cells in the two cases. The cells of the tumour, especially their nuclei, are much larger and show signs of greater repro- ductive activity (as evidenced by the frequent mitotic figures) than the cells of the gland parenchyma. These structural differences are comparable with, and no doubt correlated to, the functional differences, and are sufficiently marked to justify us in applying the specific term "cancer cells" to epithelial cells which have become so profoiindly modified. What it is that brings about this very remarkable modification both of structure and of fimction on the part of the epithelial cells has not yet been demonstrated; but to settle this would be to solve the vexed question of the causation of cancer. The lobules of the parenchyma are invaded and destroyed by the onward growth of the proliferating cancer cells. The interacinous connective tissue proliferates and becomes in- filtrated with leucocytes. The acinous epi- thelium is destroyed, and there is no evidence whatever to show that it is stimulated to pro- liferate and to undergo a cancerous transforma- tion by any spermatic, fertilising, or infective power exerted through the agency of the adjacent and pre-existing cancer cells. The microscopic appearances, therefore, point strongly to the view that the cancer is local in its origin, that the spread is mainly along the lymphatics, and that the adjacent gland parenchyma, although it frequently gives evi- dence of proliferative changes in its epithelium, is not, as maintained by Heidenhain and others, precancerous in the sense that " it is sooner or later destined to develop into typical cancer." The tumour may be situated in any part of the breast—either immediately beneath or close to the nipple, or at the circumference of the gland. The statement of Williams to the effect that 9'8 per cent originate in super- numerary mammary structures quite outside the normal mamma, can no longer be accepted in the light of our present knowledge of the anatomical limits of the mamma. The upper and outer quadrant is the commonest site of the tumour; out of 820 successive cases Gross found 46'2 per cent in this situation. Accord- ing to the same author's statistics the left breast was rather more frequently affected than the right. It is exceedingly rare to meet with two cancers in the same breast; when this does occur the two tumours are almost invariably connected by a strand of cancerous tissue, which makes their independent origin a matter of doubt. When both breasts are affected, a condition almost as rare, the cancer is com- monly of the diffuse type, and the disease is generally conveyed to the second breast by the subcutaneous and retromammary lymphatics, both of which anastomose across the mesial plane. In the majority of instances the tumour is discovered quite accidentally, or the patient's attention may be attracted to the breast by a swelling, by drawing in of the nipple, or by