NAILS, AFFECTIONS OF THE 514 Or, again, the normal longitudinal ribbing, corresponding to the lidges of the nail-bed, may be accentuated or abnormally developed. In some instances there is a markedly raised median longitudinal ridge, the nail sloping away laterally on either side, like the roof of a house or a keel. This median ridge may divide towards the distal end, giving rise to a Y-shaped appearance. This has been observed in all the finger-nails of a patient otherwise well. When the skin at the root of the nail coalesces with the latter and advances with its growth, a condition which goes by the name of pterygium unguis is attained. The opposite change to this is very rare, viz., recession with exposure of the nail root {jicus unguium). In cases where the nail has been badly injured it is gradually shed, a new nail mean- while slowly forming beneath. White spots (leuconychia vel leucopathia 2yunctata—-flores unguium, etc.) are often met with, especially in children or individuals with delicate nails, as a result of slight injuries. In rare cases transverse white bands have been met with (leu-conychia striata), or the leuco- nychia may be complete, the whole of the nail being affected {leuconychia totalis). In the latter the colour varies from an opaque, dead chalky white to a bluish-white. In some of the patients the etiology was obscure; in others the change was associated with various morbid conditions. In the case under Krieg and AVeber some of the nails also exhibited the spoon-like deformity referred to above. As to the cause of the whiteness, it has been found to be due to air-bubbles finding their way into the interstices between the nail-layers, but Unna points out that this must be looked upon as a secondary phenomenon. In his opinion the main pathological feature is an abnormal soft- ness, with swelling, of the nail-cells. This softness was very obvious in a case under his observation. In this patient the toe-nails were normal, but some of the hairs were white (leucotrichia). The finger-nails are more usually aff"ected ; hut in Krieg and Weber's case the toe- nails were also involved, but to a less degree. Unna also describes another condition {scleronychia), in which the nails, from behind forwards are thickened, inelastic, hard, rough, and opaque, and of a yellowish-grey tint. This appears to be a pure nail disease, as the skin surrounding the nails and elsewhere about the body is quite healthy. Moreover, no consti- tutional cause can be discovered to account for the nail-changes (see further on, section xii.. Anomalous and Obscure Affections of the Nails). Nails may also appear in the wrong place, at times at the ends of amputation stumps. In some cases of fracture of the long bones, the nails have been arrested in their growth. The aff"ections of the nails as they occur in practice will now be reviewed, together with rare conditions which may at any time come under observation. Various classifications have been suggested from time to come. In this place, however, the subject will be dealt with under general headings, a scheme which it is hoped will be foiind more practically useful for reference, although not strictly scientific. The ideal classification founded on Etiology is yet to seek. I. Congenital.—Absence of the nails {ano- nychia congenita) is rarely met with, bvit cases have been recorded in which there was no trace of finger- and toe-nails at birth (see under section v. for an interesting case of the kind). At other times the nails may be extremely rudimentary, and more than one child in the same family may exhibit this anomaly. Various congenital malformations, such as supernumerary fingers and so forth, need not detain us. But brief reference to the following case may be made here, viz., an enlarged terminal phalanx, with an enlarged nail present- ing a marked median longitudinal ridge, has been observed, indicating apparently a digital bifurcation (or C?) syndactylia). Brittle nails have also been recorded {onychorrhexis). For a complete account of congenital malformations the reader is referred to Heller's Monograph. Congenital pemphigus {epidermolysis bullosa) is dealt with in section v., and congenital syphilis in section ix. II. Heredity.—Various nail conditions have been found to occur in several members and generations of one family. White, opaque, longitudinally striated nails of the fingers and toes (? onychia totalis); the grandfather was said to have had white spots only. Family leucopathia of nails has also been observed by Lawrence. D. W. Montgomery has seen hereditary shedding of the nails. NicoUe and Halipre found nail-changes running through six generations, no less than thirty-six members of the family being affected. The nails were more or less longitudinally ribbed, yellowish, flaky, and brittle; lateral ulcerations also occurred leading to the shed- ding of the affected nail. Mental diseases (the original patient was an idiot), hysteria, and so forth also ran in the family. An interesting point was that the hair was concurrently affected; it was thin, whitish, and easily pulled out. Correlation of growth, though liable to exceptions, is well known, and in a general way good, sound nails will be found going with sound teeth and strong hair. I have observed brittle nails associated with absence of the uterus in a young woman of eighteen. Her skin was dry {xeroderma), and there was little hair about the pubes ; but the teeth were very good, and the hair of the scalp plentiful (see also