152 MALIGNANT PUSTULE which had been observed in London between the years 1873 and 1893, and states that of the cases in which the neck was the seat of the lesion about 40 per cent died ; of those on which other parts of the skin were affected, 12 per cent terminated fatally. In the Bradford district, out of 27 cases observed from 1880 to 1894, 13, or about 50 per cent, succumbed. Treatment.—Excision at as early a date as possible is the method of treatment generally adopted in this country. The incision should be made, as far as possible, through healthy tissues, in any case at least ^ inch from the margin of the eschar. Irrigation and treatment of the wound with 1 in 20 carbolic lotion, 1 in 1000 perchjoride of mercury solution, or bin- iodide of mercury solution, have been specially recommended. Hypodermic injections of spe- cially prepared solutions of the same salts have also been used. In several coimtries where malignant pustule is prevalent the old treatment by the actual cautery is in favour, and it is possible that when thoroughly carried out this mode of treatment presents some advantages over the excision method which may at times favour general infection. Maling^ering^. Definition, etc. . . . . .152 Historical . . . . . .152 Motives for . . . . . .153 General Considerations . . .154 Nervous Mimicry . . . . .156 Malingering (Deliberate and Planned) . 157 Varieties— Cutaneous . . . . .158 Wounds . . . . .158 Contractures . . . .159 Tenosynovitis . . . .159 Joints and Bones . . . .159 Circulatory . . . . .160 Respiratoi-y . . . . .160 Digestive . . . . .160 Tumours ..... 161 Speech. ..... 161 JVose, Eyes, etc. . . . .161 Genito-urinary . . . .161 Nervous Diseases . . . .162 Nervous Shock . . . .162 Fits 163 Epilepsy 163 Insanity . . . . .164 Cautions and Remarks . . . .165 See also Haemoptysis {Diagnosis, Spurious Haemoptysis); Hysteria ; Nails, Affections of {Malingering); Neurasthenia ; Skin, Pigmen- tary Affections of {Spurious Pigmentations); Spine, Surgical Affections of {Railway Spine, Diagnosis). Definition.—The word " malingering " is de- rived, through the French malingre, from the Latin malus oeger, and denotes a bad or base form of indisposition. By the term " malingering" is meant any purely voluntary simulation of illness, and this may be exhibited as either a mere pretence, or as an exaggeration of some already existing ailment, or as a morbid state or wound entirely produced by artificial means. Pretended cases are termed fictitious, and purposely produced cases are termed factitious. There are many cases where voluntary malingering and involun- tary simulation are blended in the same subject, in which condition we liave nervous mimicry associated with malingering. And the practi- tioner who desires to acquire a scientific and accurate knowledge of malingering must differ- entiate very carefully nervous symptoms from those which are voluntarily feigned. It has become customary of late years to cloak under the term "neurasthenia" many cases of clear voluntary imposture; and whilst we fully appreciate the vagaries and erratic action which an exhausted, or concussed, or shocked nervous system may indulge in, we see with regret a tendency to a confusion of nervous with voluntary phenomena. This is more pro- nounced in the French schools of medicine than in our own, and we must maintain a level judgment in each case of obscure symptoms which meets us, and not be carried away from the practical issue by any too dogmatic or scholastic considerations. It is true that up to some twenty years ago the luistake was made of not attributing enough to the uninhibited nervous system in cases of nerve break-down; but we are in danger now of passing to the other extreme, and of making the neuroses responsible for too much. When some would have us view common robbery and misdemeanour as the frequent result of " ambulatory automatism" ; when we have arrived at a point where a coimty court judge can give a financial verdict to a man whose friends attribute a paralysis of the brain with rapidly ensuing dementia to a small injury to the foot, the time is come when we should pause and consider where modern neurology is leading us to. Historical.—Malingering, like any other form of deceit, is no new thing. In the Scrip- tures we read of Rachel simulating indisposition in order to facilitate the concealment of the stolen idols of Laban. King David feigned madness to avoid danger. In profane history we read of Solon feigning mania with a patriotic motive. Cardinal Montalto feigned extreme debility and decay as a means of obtaining the papacy on the death of Gregory XIII., and under circumstances when the conclave of cardinals would not have elected a prelate likely to be long-lived. And we are told that as soon as Montalto became "Sextus V.," he declared his successful imposture to the cardinals and to