MEGRIM 292 ocular disturbances, mental confusion, vomiting, etc.; migraine or hemicrania. See Indigestion {Special Fot^ms, Hemicrania); Migraine. Meibomian Cyst.—A tumour due to the retention of secretion in one or more of the Meibomian glands of the eyelids ; chalazion. See Eyelids, Affections of {Chalazion). iS/leibomian Glands.—The sebaceous glands embedded in the tissues of the eyelids; tarsal glands; named after H. Meibomius (1638-1700), who described them. See Eyelids, Affections of {Hordeolum or Stye ; Infarcts of Meibomian Glands). Meinbergf. See Balneology {Germany, Sulphur). IVieissner's Corpuscles. — End- bulbs, tactile corpuscles, or terminal bodies, oblong in shape, transversely striated, and situated specially in the skin of the tips of the fingers and toes. See Skin, Anatomy and Physiology {Nerves, Tactile Corpuscles). IVieissner's Plexus. — A plexus of nerves found in the submucosa of the stomach and intestine. See Intestine, Diseases of {Anatomical Considerations); Physiology, Food AND Digestion {Structure of Alimentary Canal); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Anatomy, Minute Structure). Mel Depuratum. See Honey. Melsena. See also Children, Clinical Examination op {Ahnoi-mal Faeces) ; Gastro- intestinal Disorders of Infancy {Diseases of Stomach, Gastric Ulcer) ; Gout (^Treatment, Meat and Hot Water Cure); Hemophilia {Dia- gnosis) ; Heart, Affections of Myocardium AND Endocardium {HcBmorrhage from Portal System) ; Liver, Diseases of {Cirrhosis, Symp- toms) ; Liver, Diseases of {Portal Thrombosis); New-born Infant {Melcena Neonatorum); Pan- creas, Diseases of {Pa7icreatitis, Subacute); Typhoid Fever {Comjilications and Sequela;). Melcena {/xekav, black) is the name given to the black tar-like evacuations associated with the passage of blood by the bowels. Strictly speaking, the term is not applicable to cases of recent haemorrhage from the bowel, when the blood passed is of a bright-red colour; but as in practice every variation of intensity in colour and consistence is met with, it is probably better to make our remarks bear on the passage of blood in general, without regard to the actual colour of motions present. The black colour and viscid consistence of the mo- tions ordinarily present is due to decomposition changes in the extravasated haemoglobin, and the mixture of the extravasated blood and its disintegration products with the natural secre- tions in the alimentary tract. Under the in- fluence of these fluids haemoglobin is changed into a dark-brown substance—haematin, which in turn is acted on by the sulphuretted hy- drogen of the alimentary canal, thus giving rise to the black sulphide or iron. The passage of tarry stools therefore means that the blood has lain some time in the intestines; thus we find the typical viscid black stools most marked in lesions of the intestines situated high up in the abdominal contents. Hence the importance of a careful naked-eye examination of the stools in order to determine the probable site and nature of the lesion. Needless to say, the concurrent presence of mucus in excess, or of markedly foetid odour, or of gross alteration in the shape of the faecal mass, will form valuable contributory evidence for the diagnosis. Cause.—The most common cause of melaena is a simple ulcer of the stomach, duodenum, or lower end of oesophagus. Next in frequency we find the ulceration associated with the presence of malignant disease in the small or large intestines, dysentery, typhoid fever, and cirrhosis of the liver. Among rarer causes, tuberculosis of the bowels, grave heart disease, general vascular weakness, and haemorrhage of parasitic origin may be mentioned. The oc- currence of haemorrhage in infants, melaena neonatorum, calls for separate consideration (see " New-born Infant "). Diagnosis.—There is little or no difficulty in diagnosing the existence of melaena. The coloration of faeces induced by various drugs, e.g. bismuth, iron, etc., is similar, but the consist- ence and general appearance of the stools taken along with the history of the case readily clears up the diagnosis. Another point is worthy of mention. In patients on a meat and hot water diet {vide "Gout," vol. iii.), the stools may present an appearance closely allied to melaena. This is due to pigment changes in the haematin of the muscle, a condition quite distinct from that under consideration. Considerable diffi- culty is, however, frequently experienced in determining the nature and site of the lesion giving rise to the haemorrhage. To consider this point fully would lead us too far afield ; we can only summarise a few of the leading points of practical importance. By far the most frequent cause is a gastric ulcer, and in this category we include duodenal and oesophageal ulcers. Careful inquiry must be made into the antecedents of the case. The age, sex, and previous gastric history will assist. Can we difFenentiate between a gastric and duodenal ulcer? In answer, it is important to bear in mind that all cases of gastric ulcer are not accompanied nor followed by melaena, and further, melaena is met with in cases where htematemesis has not occurred : hence the great importance of a systematic examination of the stools. There are many cases where it is quite impossible to locate accurately the site of the