MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS 351 relieving uterine spasm and lessening pelvic en- gorgement by dilating the superficial arterioles. Pulsatilla and caulophyllum frequently give great relief in spasmodic dysmenorrha3a, espe- cially where the flow is scanty. Viburnum opulus and viburnum prunifolium are most valuable anti spasmodics and uterine sedatives. They are of most service in uterine colic and of least value in the neuralgic cases. They are nauseous drugs and are best given in capsules. In most cases of pelvic congestion bromide of potash, in 30-grain doses (combined with bella- donna if there be uterine spasm, or with anti- pyrin if there be neuralgic pain) is of great service. 3. The Treatment of the Pelvic Lesion.— Obviously, if dysmenorrhcsa be due to disease of the pelvic viscera, the most certain method of relieving the pain is to remove the causative lesion. This, however, is not always advisable or justifiable, as it may involve an operation which not only risks the patient's life, but irre- trievably mutilates her and deprives her of all possibility of having children. The cure may, in fact, be worse than the disease. An opera- tion is only to be recommended in cases where milder measures have been tried and failed, and where the patient's sufferings are intolerable. (1) In the Infantile Uterus.—If this condition exists in a marked degree, it is incurable, and nothing short of removal of the uterine append- ages or, what is preferable, vaginal hysterectomy, will relieve the patient's sufferings. In the milder degree, tonics, especially iron, should be given, and the patient encouraged to marry. Many of these cases are cured by marriage, which arouses the uterus into increased nutri- tive activity and improves its circulation. As the uterus develops, the periods become more regular, less scanty and less painful. Should conception occur, the cure becomes complete. It must, however, be remembered that many of these cases are sterile. Electricity and dilating the cervix by the insertion of an intra-uterine stem pessary are sometimes advised in these cases, but they are rarely of much use and may do harm. (2) Stenosis of the Cervix.—Here dilating the cervix is of great value and nearly always effects a cure. The best results are obtained in the purely spasmodic cases, particularly where spasm is excited by the passage of a bougie through the internal os. Dilatation is contraindicated if the uterus be fixed by peri- uterine adhesions, and is a highly dangerous proceeding if there be inflammatory disease of the uterine appendages. The best time for its performance is midway between two periods. It should be done under an anaesthetic and with scrupulous aseptic precautions. The canal is best dilated with graduated metal dilators ; it should be done slowly and without using undue force, otherwise the uterus may be per- forated or ruptured. After full dilatation, the cavity of the uterus should be packed with iodoform gauze. This should be removed at the end of forty-eight hours, and thereafter the vagina irrigated night and morning with some mild antiseptic. To prevent recontraction it is sometimes advisable to insert a glass intra- uterine stem pessary which the patient should wear for a couple of months. Frequently a single dilatation effects an immediate and permanent cure. In some cases the relief is only temporary ; after a few months of ease, the old pain begins to return. In such cases it is advisable to repeat the dilatation. Sometimes the operation does no good whatso- ever. In the case of young married sterile women the stenosis of the cervix causes not only dysmenorrhcea, but also sterility. Here the dilatation often cures the sterility as well as the pain at the periods. Moreover, the occur- rence of pregnancy is much to be desired, as it effectually and permanently cures the stenosis. (3) Metritis and Endometritis.—Before re- sorting to operative measures, an endeavour should be made to remove the chronic inflamma- tion by " antiphlogistic " remedies. The patient must rest in bed, have frequent hot vaginal douches, and every night have inserted a glycerine and ichthyol vaginal tampon. She must keep her bowels open with saline aperients. Medicinally, a mixture containing chlorate of potash should be given, combined with ergot if there be menorrhagia, and with iron if there be anaemia and debility. If there be any suspicion of syphilitic or gonorrhojal infection, mercury and iodide of potash will work wonders. If, in spite of these measures, the disease continues—particularly if it be endometritis— the operation of curetting is called for. After thoroughly scraping away the endometrium, the uterus should be swabbed out with iodised phenol and packed with iodoform gauze for forty-eight hours. After removing this gauze, the vagina is to be irrigated with some mild antiseptic and the patient kept in bed till after the next period. (4) Tumours of the Uterus.—If there be a polypus or submucous myoma, these should be removed by operation. If there be an interstitial myoma, the patient should be kept at rest; given hot douches; and internally, ergot, hydrastis, and bromide ad- ministered. Should this line of treatment fail, and the patient be both in pain and flooding severely, the tumour should be removed either by enucleation or by total extirpation of the uterus. (5) Ovarian Disease, (6) Tubal Disease, and (7) Chronic Pelvic Peritonitis.—In the case of ovarian tumours, there should be no delay in removing them by operation. In the case of acute and chronic pelvic peritonitis, oophoritis, and salpingitis, antiphlogistic treatment should be carried out; mercury and iodide of potash.