MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 183 to be borne in mind that the abnormal activity of the glandular epithelium frequently ceases at the menopause, and that as a result of the retrogressive changes which take place at this period harmless involution cysts alone remain. Circumscribed Chronic Mastitis. — Localised chronic inflammatory indurations of the mamma are met with at any time from maturity almost to advanced life. They are due to a variety of causes, the most common being prolonged lacta- tion, traumatisms of various kinds, such as blows, the pressure of badly fitting corsets, and the presence of foreign bodies; they may follow the opening of an abscess, or suppuration result- ing from the removal of a simple tumour or cyst (Sheild). Other causes are similar to those which produce the diffuse forms of the disease. The commonest form is that which is met with in women who have unduly prolonged suckling; and instead of the breast undergoing the normal involution, an indurated and tender area remains. This may slowly resolve, or it may lead to the formation of a chronic abscess. Not infrequently, however, the lump persists for many months, or even longer, and there can be no doubt that in some instances carcinoma is superimplanted. A second variety of local inflammatory swell- ing is that which is produced when a limited area of the breast becomes the seat of chronic lobular mastitis, with or without the formation of cysts. In most instances, except when the localisation is determined by a traumatism, the remainder of the breast, as well as its fellow, gives evidence, sooner or later, of the early stage of general lobular mastitis. The lump or induration which is present in the breast con- sists either of a collection of enlarged and in- durated lobules, or of a cluster of small cysts embedded in a chronically inflamed stroma, or of a single larger cyst surrounded by a zone of inflamed and indurated breast tissue. A third variety of local induration occurs in the involuted breast at or about the time of the menopause. Pathologically it consists of a localised interstitial inflammatory sclerosis of the stroma, the parenchyma being either atro- phied or converted into an involution cyst. Localised mastitis, whatever its cause or nature, owes its importance to the fact that it gives rise to a condition which is often very difficult, and sometimes even impossible, to distinguish clinically from carcinoma. The affected area presents itself in the form of a more or less well-defined and somewhat nodular tumour-like induration. Pain may be absent but tenderness on pressure is almost invariably present. Occasionally the patient complains of a dull, aching sensation in the lump. In rare instances, more especially in neurotic women, the pain is severe and lancinating. The lump, although firm and indurated, wants the charac- teristic woody hardness and density of a carci- noma. When picked up between the finger and thumb it appears to be fairly well defined, but more careful palpation shows that the in- duration fades away into the surrounding breast tissue. If the lump be pressed bodily back- wards against the ribs with the flat of the hand, its density is not sufficient to prevent it from yielding, and consequently it loses the more definite tumour-like feel which it gives when simply picked up between the finger and thumb. A scwrhus carcinoma, on the other hand (unless small and deeply embedded in a large fat mamma), has a well-defined outline, and the more firmly it is pressed against the chest wall the more distinctly are its density and limits appreciated, and the more does it give one the idea of a dense body foreign to the breast. Except when there has been a former abscess, the skin over a simple induration is unaltered and can be readily pinched up from oif it, whei'e- as over a scirrhus it is generally more or less tacked down to the lump so tliat it wrinkles when an attempt is made to pinch it up. Too much reliance must not be placed upon the condition of tlae nipple, which may be either normal or retracted in both conditions. In mastitis the axillary glands may be slightly enlarged from simple irritative hyperplasia. Lastly, let it be remembered that, in the case of a scirrhus, tenderness to pressure is generally consjncuous hy its ahsence. When all has been said, it must be confessed that in some cases nothing short of a diagnostic incision suffices to definitely establish a diagnosis. In the treatment of the localised form of chronic mastitis the same lines are to be followed as in dealing with general lobular mastitis. The excision of a localised inflammatory induration or a cluster of small cysts is carried out in the manner already described under the treatment of a cyst associated with lobular mastitis. In all cases where there is the least suspicion that the lump may be malignant, the surgeon must be fully prepared to do a radical operation. The question of diagnostic incisions and explo- ratory operations will be fully considered under the treatment of carcinomata. Non-tuherculo^LS Chronic Abscess of the Breast. —Since the discovery of the tubercle bacillus, chronic or cold abscesses have been shown to be almost invariably of tuberculous origin. The breast, however, is apparently the most notable exception to this rule, non-tuberculous chronic abscess being more frequently met with in it than in any other part of the body. In some instances the abscess develops at the site of a former acute abscess, as is evidenced by its relation to an old scar. It is more than probable, therefore, that in such cases we have to do with a latent or dormant and attenuated infection, which, in consequence of some injury, strain, exposure to cold, or functional conges- tion, aided perhaps by a general lowering of