MOUTH—DISEASES OF THE MOUTH 458 fine papillomata are found growing from the gums, especially in the upper jaw. Some of these have afterwards become malignant and develop definitely into an epithelioma. It is important, therefore, to remove a papilloma of the gum as soon as it is recognised. Epulis.—This term requires some explanation. Originally it was applied to any tumour which appeared to grow from the gum; thus it in- cluded an ordinary epulis, a papilloma, a sarcoma of the alveolar process, or an epithelioma. It is obvious that if the term epulis be used in this wide sense considerable confusion must arise in discussing them. It is better, therefore, to restrict the term to the characteristic growth which commences at or near the neck of a tooth. As a matter of fact, the true epvilis is not primarily a growth of the gum, but of the periosteum beneath the gum. They really belong to the group of sarcomata although they need not necessarily have a malignant tendency. The tissue of the gum and its epithelium are simply stretched by the growth from the under- lying periosteum, and therefore the changes in the gum itself are really secondary. The tumour, therefore, is always composed of con- nective tissue. Sometimes the fibrous element predominates so much over the cellular element that they are sometimes looked upon as belong- ing to the fibromata. In many of them there is a development of bone to a greater or lesser extent, which can be found on careful microscopic examination in nearly all cases. Their origin from the periosteum is further shown by the fact that they have a great tendency to recur after removal unless the small portion of the alveolus to which they are attached is taken away as well. Some of these tumours present to the naked eye and microscope the appearances of myeloid sarcoma. In all probability both these forms occur, either originating in the periosteum, when we get the ordinary fibrous or the osteo-sarcomatous epulis, or in the bone itself producing the myeloid growth. While it is most important to recognise the essentially sarcomatous nature of the ordinary epulis, yet we must bear in mind that clinically they present considerable differences from ordinary sarcomata of bone. They undoubtedly possess a very slight degree of malignancy, so that when small they seldom recur after removal. Even when of considerable size they do not tend to recur if the portion of bone to which they are attached is removed at the same time. The typical place for an epulis to form is between two teeth, generally growing from the alveolo- dental periosteum at the neck of the tooth, so that when the tooth is extracted the epulis may come away attached to the neck of the tooth. As the growth increases in size the teeth on each side of it become separated, and later on it may become large enough to almost conceal one or both of the teeth. If one or both of the adjacent teeth have been much destroyed by decay the stumps may become completely con- cealed by the growth, and may even be found embedded in the mass. Later on, secondary changes take place due to mechanical irritation. The epithelium on the surface becomes abraided and an ulcer may form. Septic inflammation may progress and vascular granulation tissue may develop, producing a fungating foul smelling mass. In former years the ordinary fibrous epulis was allowed to reach an enprmous size, completely disfiguring the patient. The treatment is at the present day quite straightforward. Nothing short of a complete removal of the growth is of the slightest use. If the epulis is very small and can be recognised to have its attachment at the neck of the tooth, the growth will often come away in a complete state when the tooth is extracted. In all cases it is necessary to remove the portion of alveolus from which the epulis is actually growing. The best method, therefore, is first of all to extract any tooth touching the growth ; then to cut down to the periosteum around the growth and detach it altogether with the periosteum from the alveolar process; the exposed portion of alveolar process is finally chiselled away. Epithelioma of the Gum.—This nearly always originates in the neighbourhood of a decayed tooth. It does not present any special feature differing from epithelium elsewhere. It is possible to get a septic ulceration of the gums simulating epithelioma, but a few days' careful treatment with antiseptics will soon enable the diagnosis to be made certain. The treatment consists in a free removal of the soft tissues and of the bone to which it is attached. 4. Diseases of the Floor of the Mouth. —Certain inflammatory lesions may involve secondarily the floor of the mouth. There may be a localised inflammation in the supra-hyoid region beneath the deep cervical fascia, causing swelling and oedema in the floor of the mouth. This nearly always terminates in suppuration, and is best opened by an incision through the skin in the middle line between the chin and the hyoid bone. A much more extensive in- flammation resulting in gangrene may occur beneath the deep cervical fascia extending up- wards to the floor of the mouth. It was first described by Ludwig, and therefore is sometimes termed angina Ludovici. The gangrenous cellulitus chiefly destroys tissues in the neck, and is described when dealing with that region. Here it is simply necessary to point out that there may be considerable swelling and oedema in the floor of the mouth at quite an early stage, before extensive mischief in the neck renders the disease quite evident. Of considerable interest are swellings in the floor of the mouth of a cystic nature. These may be classified in three groups :— 1. Dermoid Cysts.—Although congenital in