483 MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE the swelling generally has a purple appearance, the surrounding tissue being cedematous. The swelling thus formed may disappear, and then reappear in some other portion of the body; after a short time several such swellings appear. The pain is usually acute, and all movement is very much impaired. The affected extremity is swollen, hard, very painful on pressure, and feels hot to the touch. The skin is not usually so much affected as in dermato-myositis, but there is often a rash having somewhat the ap- pearance of measles, sometimes that of purpura, and at other times there is very marked vaso- motor disturbance, so that any pressure or rubbing of the skin produces a bright red spot. Actual subcutaneous hsemorrhages not infre- quently occur. After the subcutaneous oedema has disappeared hard and tender swellings can be felt in the affected muscles. Atrophy of the muscle now begins to take place. Shortly after the onset of the disease the rapidity of the heart's beat is greatly increased without there being any obvious cardiac lesion. On electrical examination the muscles generally show some quantitative change. The knee-jerks are ob- tainable, and sensation is natural. Nothing abnormal can be detected in the internal organs, although the spleen is sometimes enlarged. Some cases, however, have had haemorrhage from the intestines. Course.—The disease is usually fatal from failure of the cardiac action and hypostatic congestion of the lungs. In one case, however, recovery took place. Pathological Anatomy.—The muscles appear of a dirty brown colour, and hsemorrhagic foci can be seen between the muscular fasciculi. The heart muscle shows the same brown colovir with small haemorrhages. Microscopically, during the acute stage intermuscular haemorrhages are found; the muscular fibres are separated from one another by the extravasated blood. The muscle fibres have lost many of their nuclei; they may be vacuolated, and show hyaline de- generation. In the later stages there is extreme atrophy of the muscle fibres, the connective tissue is greatly increased, and the remains of blood pigment is often to be seen. Polymyositis which accompanies Urticarial and Erythematous Affections of the Skin.—Besides the varieties of the disease above described, a very interesting condition is seen in association with urticaria and erythema, which instead of producing the severe affection described in the last two varieties tends rapidly to improve, leaving the patient in a few days restored to his usual health. The etiology of the disease is obscure. Cultivations from the muscles are negative. In one case that was brought under my notice the condition was produced by eating shell-fish, and was accompanied by severe urticaria, and one cannot but regard the disease as similar in origin and cause to urti- caria, and probably due to a poison of intes- tinal origin. Symptoms. — In the slighter forms of the disease the symptoms come on suddenly, with severe urticaria of the skin and swelling of the muscles generally limited to the lower extremi- ties. In the muscles themselves spindle-shaped swellings can be felt about the size of a man's thumb; the skin eruption disappears in the course of twenty-four to forty-eight hours, and the muscular swelling also becomes absorbed in about the same time. In the severer forms the lower extremities are considerably swollen, and the skin is oedematous and presents the condi- tion seen in erythema nodosum. The limbs feel hot and are tender on pressure; the muscles are hard, and small areas of induration can be felt in them. The patient can only move the legs with difhculty, and passive movements give rise to severe pain. The dis- turbance in temperature is not as a rule great; occasionally the joints become involved. The electrical irritability of the muscles is much diminished. Course and Prognosis.—The disease tends to rapid recovery ; in the first form the duration is but a few days, while in the latter, although the acutest symptoms may pass off in a week, yet there frequently remains great tenderness of the bones and muscles which may persist for a considerable period. Again, there is a tendency for this form to recur. Muscular atrophy is said to occur after the disease. Morbid Anatomy.—So far as observation goes from the examination of excised portion of muscle, there is an exudation of small cells in the muscle without any change in the muscle fibres themselves. (2) Neuromyositis. — This name has been given to a form of myositis which is generally considered of rheumatic origin. The disease usually affects one limb which is tender, and pain is especially caused by muscular contrac- tion. The joints and the nerve-trunks may be affected, but are tender to a lesser degree than the muscle. The disease occurs in patients after the second half of life, and usually follows on rheumatism. The symptoms indicate an interstitial inflammation of the muscles affecting the tissues in which the afferent nerves begin. The arm while at rest gives rise to but little pain, but the sudden contraction of the muscle caused by passive movement gives rise to great pain in the muscles. If, however, the arm be moved slowly and steadily a wide range of movement is possible, and it is only the occur- rence of a more sudden movement that causes sudden spasmodic contraction of the muscles to take place, and then the pain in the muscles becomes great. The fear of this pain usually results in the arm being held in a fixed position. The muscles are tender to touch, and are some- what wasted and flabby. The disease is of loa