350 MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS nervous system. Thus in anaemia, gout, rheumatism, on the one hand, and hysteria and neurasthenia on the other, there is not in- frequently painful menstruation of a neuralgic type. Treatment.—There are three main lines of treatment to be followed:—1. Improve the general health. 2. Relieve pain. 3. Treat any pelvic lesion. 1. The Care of the General Health. — The general hygienic surroundings of the patient must be inquired into and, if defective, remedied. Any unhealthy occupation must be given up and the patient made to live in as pure an atmosphere as possible. A change of air, as to the seaside or the country, is often advisable. The diet should be simple, easily digested, and non-stimulating. Alcohol, spices, strong tea, and coffee should be avoided. The patient should be amply clad, wear warm woollen under- garments and avoid tight-lacing. The bowels must be attended to, and if there be any tendency to constipation it must be remedied by laxative food, saline aperients, cascara, or compound liquorice powder. During the period she should rest either in bed or on the sofa. During the intermenstrual interval—unless there be serious pelvic disease—she should be encouraged to take plenty of active exercise in the fresh air. Walking, riding, cycling, rowing, are all good in moderation. But there must be no over-fatigue, no violent strain, no " scorch- ing" or cycling up stiff hills. The modern girl's taste for athletics is to be encouraged, as, if not carried to excess, it tends to prevent anfemia, constipation, dyspepsia, and hysteria, developing a healthy mind in a healthy body. Anything that tends to promote vicious habits of thought and morbid excitement must be guarded against. She should avoid the giddy whirl of fashionable society, with its artificial life, its late hours, its unwholesome dinners and suppers, its crowded " at homes," concerts, and balls. By such simple remedies as fresh air, rational clothing, wholesome food, judicious exercise, attention to the bowels, and healthy moral influences, many a case of neuralgic dysmenorrhoea may be cured. In other cases, however, there are consti- tutional disorders, which call for active medicinal treatment. If she be antemic, iron and arsenic must be given ; if gouty, alkalies, iodide of potash and colchicum; if rheumatic, guaiacum, sulphur, and salicylate of soda. If she be hysterical, sedatives, such as bromide of potash, valerian, castoreum, and asafoetida may be needed. If neurasthenic, nervine tonics such as strychnine, phosphorus, quinine, and damiana are indicated, whilst in severe cases the "Weir-Mitchell treatment" is of great value. 2. The Relief of the Fain.—{\) Rest.—In every case of severe dysmenorrhoea the patient should, if possible, spend the whole of the period in bed. The recumbent posture lessens the pressure in the pelvic blood-vessels and mechanically relieves the pelvic congestion. The foot of the bed should be raised in order to further elevate the pelvis and so promote the flow of blood out of it. (2) Heat. — Heat applied in various ways often gives wonderful relief. In some cases a hot mustard poultice applied to the abdomen acts like a charm. Dry heat may be applied by means of Leiter's metallic coils, or the ordinary domestic india-rubber hot-water bottles or salt bags. A hot bath lessens the blood- pressure in the pelvis by dilating the capillaries of the skin. Hot vaginal douches are of great service, given as hot as the patient can bear (105°-115° F.), both during the period and the intermenstrual intervals—especially in those cases of dysmenorrhoea due to inflammation of the uterus or the appendages. Copious hot drinks—not alcoholic—such as hot milk, hot ginger and water, hot peppermint and water, etc., are of service in promoting cutaneous dilatation and so lessening pelvic congestion. (3) Anodyne Drugs.—What medicines may we give to directly relieve the patient's suffer- ings ? There are two remedies that must not be given, alcohol and opium; and this in spite of the fact that we know of nothing that will relieve the pain so promptly or so effectually. A stiff glass of hot gin and water, given at the commencement of the period seldom fails to bring ease and comfort and tide the patient over the agony of onset. Could we only be sure that the single tumbler of toddy once a month would never be exceeded, the remedy would be an excellent one. But a sad experi- ence teaches otherwise, for there can be no doubt that much of the secret drinking that prevails amongst women is the result of the pernicious practice of plying them with alcohol during their monthly periods. So also with opiates : a hypodermic injection of 1^ to I grain of morphia will almost certainly give immediate relief to the patient's suffering. But the danger of teaching her the seductive morphia habit is so great that only in ex- ceptional cases are we justified in administering it. Dysmenorrhoea is a lesser evil than morphia mania. In neuralgic cases, such coal-tar deriva- tives as antipyrin, phenacetine, exalgine, acet- anilid, ammonol, frequently give relief. It is advisable to give them with a cardiac stimulant such as sal volatile or caffein, to prevent the depressing influence these drugs sometimes exert on the heart. In spasmodic pains due to uterine colic, belladonna and cannabis indica are very efficacious. They must be given in large doses and pushed until they begin to exert their full physiological eff'ects. The nitrites (such as nitrite of amyl and nitro-glycerine) occasionally are of service in