515 NAILS, AFFECTIONS OF THE Radcliffe-Crockei-'s Congenital Atrophy of Skin Case, section v.). Spooning of the nails {koilonychia) has also been found in several members of one family. The finger-nails, and toe-nails too but to a less extent, were concave from before backwards in a woman aged forty, and the deformity was stated to exist in her brothers and sisters; her father, his brothers and sisters; and also her paternal grandfather. As to the nails in psoriasis and epidermolysis bullosa, see section v. III. Injuries. —■ In this connection it is necessary to consider not only the nail proper, but also the matrix and nail-bed, with blood- vessels and nerves, in short the nail-organ, as it has been called. This remark applies to diseases of the nail generally. Crushes and blows leading to sub-ungual hsemorrhages may result in the shedding of the nail, followed by a slow regeneration. Cuts with sharp instruments through the nail may give rise to permanent ridges. When the root of the nail has been involved, the skin has been observed to coalesce with the nail, with a permanent irregular pterygium unguis- like condition. The habit of biting the root of the nail, met with in neurotic individuals, results in exag- gerated longitudinal ribbing, brittleness, trans- verse depressions and irregular protuberances, or loss of nail with regeneration. The thumb- nails are those usually involved, but several or all the finger-nails may be more or less affected. In such cases, too, the nails are discoloured, yellowish, or dirty-looking. HcBviorrhage into the nail itself has been •observed as a result of injuries. Runtgen Rays — The effects of the X-rays may be included under Injuries. Individuals habitually using and demonstrating the rays frequently present changes in the finger-nails. In a case which came under my notice all the nails, except those of the thumbs, were irregu- lar, rough, and transversely furrowed. The condition is the result of the dermatitis induced by the rays, and when the latter is marked and recurrent the changes in the nails may be per- manent. In mild cases the nails are stated to have slowly become normal again. Occupation.—Various trades are inimical to the nails. Characteristic discolorations are seen in French-polishers, with other nutritional changes, as a sequence of the irritant dermatitis from which such workers suffer. In laundresses, housewives, barmaids, and others having their hands much in water or soda solutions, the nails become thin, irregular, brittle, and so forth. Lithographers, who use nitric acid, have rough, .discoloured, and painful nails. Rayer has ob- served a recession of the skin at the root of the nails in curriers (iicus nnguiuni). (See also section v. under Eczema.) Manicurists use a varnish which I have seen lead to redness and inflammation of the skin about the root of the nails, the latter becoming soft and brittle. Among injuries, damage to the nails arising from heat and cold must also be mentioned. Splinters under the nails may sometimes lead to permanent deformities. I have also seen the nails greatly altered, and some of them practically destroyed from the in- discriminate therapeutic application of caustics in childhood. IV. General Diseases.—The nails may be variously modified in a number of diseases. The curvature associated with clubbing of the finger-ends in phthisis is well known. A similar condition, with cyanosis, occurs in congenital malformation of the heart (patent " undefended space "). In diabetes mellitus shedding of the nails has been observed, and this quite apart from diabetic gangrene. Subungual hemorrhages occur in scurvy. In ancemia (chlorosis), the pallor of the nails is sometimes very marked. There is no dividing line to show a lunula. This is a blood condition, analogous to the pale conjunctivae, skin, and mucous membranes. It must not be confused with leuconychia totalis, which it very much looks like at first sight. Atrophy and brittleness of the nails have been seen in association with osteo-arthritis. The nails have been shed in enteric fever. It has been stated that reedy nails {i.e. marked longitudinal ridges) are significant of gout. I have certainly seen this condition where there was no gout; and, where gout was present, I found the patient had been in the habit for years of biting the skin at the root of the nails, sometimes to the quick. The fact is, this longitudinal striation increases with age. In young children the nails are normally smooth, but in old people ribbing is the rule. Changes in the nails may be found associated with a number of other complaints, such as rheumatic fever and so forth, but these cannot be dealt with at further length in this place. One interesting fact in connection with all prostrating illnesses is the transverse depression left as a memorial in the thumb-nails, for they show it best. This furrow slowly grows out in time, but its presence is an indication. By measurements, added to the knowledge of the average growth of nail, an approximate estimate of the time that has elapsed since an illness can be arrived at. A succession of alternate wavy ridges and furrows would point to recurrences and relapses.. V. Diseases of the Skin, including the Acute Exanthemata. —The latter diseases have been included in this group, as the nails in them become involved by continuity or proximity of the morbid changes occurring in the skin. They