274 MEDICINE, HISTORY OF awoke to a sense of their latent mental superi- ority to the degenerate and enervated peoples of the south; and gave full play to their energies in pulling down and building up principalities, in which, though they might adopt the names and forms of Roman political and military institutions, and even some sem- blance of Christianity, there was no room for learning and culture, of which the little that survived the general wreck found perforce a refuge in the monasteries ; and the practice of medicine, such as it was, was undertaken by the monks, who both preserved for us all we have of the earlier literature and popularised it by the output of Latin translations, compila- tions, and compendiums—of, however, very little worth. Out of these monastic establish- ments grew the schools of Salerno, which may justly be looked on as the mother of univer- sities, though those of Bologna and Paris were the first to assume the name. The schools of Salerno were far from being dominated by the Church, as Oxford and Cambridge were until the middle of the nineteenth century. Many of the professors were, as we know, laymen and married; while, at least in the schools of law and medicine, a Jewish element was conspicuous among both teachers and students, and some of the professors were women. The medical school greatly outnumbered those of the other faculties, and maintaining its European reputation from the eighth to the twelfth or thirteenth century, continued to exist until the university was suppressed by Napoleon in 1811. Among the works issuing from Salerno in the period preceding the rise of Arabic medicine were the anonymous rhymed poem. Regimen Sanitati& Salerni, ostensibly written for " the English king," and of a popular character; the Anatome Porci of Copho ; and the Practica of Joannes Platearius ; while contemporary with, though scarcely in- fluenced by, the rival system, were the Antido- tarium of Nicolaus Prgepositus, and the works on the urine and the pulse by (Egidius Cor- boliensis (Gilles de Corbeil), in the form of hexameter poems ! At Damascus and Baghdad, Greek medicine was cultivated as early as the eighth century under Jewish and Christian teachers ; and in the ninth, Arabian physicians began to make translations of or compilations from the works of Hippocrates, Galen, Dioscorides, and the later Greek writers, as Paulus ^gineta. But the first of the classic Arabian authors was Abd Bakr Mohammed ibn Zakarfyd el-Razi, better known as Rhazes of Baghdad, a voluminous writer, many of whose works were translated into Greek and Latin, and to whom we owe the earliest descriptions of measles and smallpox, the latter of which, according to a tradition reported by the Arabian historian Tabari, ap- peared first at the siege of Mecca, a.d. 570, among the troops of the Abyssinian contingent, having been brought by them from Africa. The golden age of Arabian medicine, both in the East and in Spain, lasted from the tenth to the twelfth century. Wiistenfeld and Hteser have collected the names of between three and four hundred writers, the works of three only of whom have been printed in Arabic, others in Greek or Latin translations, but the vast majority existing still in MSS. only. Those that were translated and studied in Europe, and who only, therefore, are known to us, are, after Rhazes, Haly (All ibn el-'Abbds), a Persian, Abulcasis (Abu'l Kdsim) of Cordova, Avicenna (Ibn Sina), Avenzoar or Abumeron (Abii Merwdn 'Abd el-Malik ibn Zohr), and Averroes (Abii Rosch) of Cordova and Morocco, and Maimonides (Ben Maimon), a Jewish rabbi whose works are for the most part extant in the original Arabic or Hebrew—the last two having been contemporaries, and dying in 1199 and 1204 respectively. Though derived from a common origin, and to the last acknowledging the authority of Galen, the Syrian and Spanish schools tended in time to divergence, if not avowed antagonism—the latter having become imbued with Western philosophy, Maimonides being indeed better known as a rationalist philosopher than as a physician. The Eastern Arabs, on the other hand, borrowed much from India; they enlarged the realm of materia medica and were the apothecaries of the Middle Ages. Many of the terms still used in chemistry and pharmacy are purely Arabic, and the work De Simplicibus, ascribed to a Messua, the younger, of Damascus, was in such repute that it was used by our Royal College of Physicians in the preparation of the first London Pharmacopoeia in 1618. One factor that, above all others, made for the predominance of Arabian medicine, or rather Greek medicine in its Arabian dress, was that, alike among Arabs, Jews, and Christians, the Aristotelian dialectic dominated every department of learning and infected all human thought. The Oriental mind was at- tracted by its ingenuities; and scholasticism, which reigned supreme until the revival of learning, was essentially Aristotelian. It per- meated the philosophy and theology of the age ; but the consequences were, from the nature of the subject, far more practically injurious in the case of medicine, which to be of any use must be based on a foundation of inductive reasoning. The supremacy that Arabian medicine so rapidly acquired was effected by the translations of all the more famous works into Latin, mainly by learned Jews from the Moorish schools of Spain working under the patronage of bishops and heads of monastic houses, and receiving great encouragement from the Emperors Frederic Barbarossa and Frederic II., who brought its