MICROTOME 401 Microtome. — An instrument for the cutting of thin sections of tissues which have been hardened by freezing or imbedded in paraffin. See Post-mortem Methods {Micro- scopical). Microtrichia,.—Unusual fineness of the hair. Micturition. Introductory .... . 401 Physiology of Mictv/rition . 401 Frequency .... . 401 Retention .... . 401 Incontinence—• In Children . 402 In Adults . 402 Diminished Stream . . 402 See also Bladder, Injuries and Diseases {Calculus Vesicae); Children, Clinical Ex- AMiMATiON {Urinary System); Gynecology, Diagnosis in ; Hematuria ; Hemoglobinuria ; Hysteria ; Kidney, Surgical Affections of ; Measles {Symptoms, Frequency of Micturition); Pelvis {Pelvic Peritonitis); Physiology, Ex- cretion {Excretion of Urine); Pregnancy, Physiology {Frequent Micturition); Prostate Gland {Inflammation, Hypertrophy, Symptoms); Puerperium, Physiology {Bladder); Urethra, Diseases of ; Urination, Disorders of ; Urine, Pathological Changes in ; Urine, Bacteria in. Introductory. — Under normal circumstances in the healthy adult the act of micturition is performed about four times in the twenty-four hours, and the interval of sleep is exempt from the necessity of the individual voiding urine. While this is so, we must note that the influence of habit is capable of modifying this function without of necessity indicating a diseased state. More especially is this so in the female sex, where the bladder is relatively more capacious, and in whom custom induces less frequent micturition. At birth the infant may pass water very shortly after birth, as the urine is secreted during the later months, but not in- frequently the infant passes the first twenty-four hours without micturition. During the early months of life the normal condition is one of incontinence. During the first eighteen months the infant passes water usually about twice every hour, except during sleep, when the urine may be retained for two or even three hours. As the child grows the intervals between micturition lengthen. In this respect much depends on careful training. With judicious nursing an infant acquires some control over its bladder within a year or eighteen months. Physiology of Micturition.—A knowledge of the physiology of the act is essential for a due understanding of the disorder. The mechanism concerned in normal micturition, which is a voluntary act, is as follows:—There are two vol. VI centres in the himbar region of the cord—-a sphincter centre and a micturition centre, the former controlling the sphincter at the neck of the bladder, the latter influencing the muscle fibres of the bladder wall. These two centres are in turn under the control of higher centres in the cerebrum. When the bladder gets dis- tended the mucous membrane is stimulated, and an apparent impulse passes through its nerves into the cord to the sensorium. When this is perceived a double impulse is emitted from the brain to the centres in the cord : one to inhibit the sphincter centre's activity and so allow of relaxation of the neck of the bladder, the other to stimulate the micturition centre and so bring about expulsion of the bladder contents. In the case of involuntary micturition the mechan- ism is somewhat difl'erent. This takes place independently of the con- trolling influence of the higher centres. When the bladder gets distended the impulses gradu- ally accumulate in strength, and, acting on the nerve endings in the neck of the bladder, in themselves suffice to lead to relaxation of the sphincter, and at the same time induce partial stimulation of the muscular fibres of the bladder. Frequency of Micturition.—The first point to emphasise about this symptom is the fact of its being one both of surgical and medical import- ance. If we apply the knowledge of the physio- logy of the act just given we will readily under- stand that any abnormal state of the mucous membrane of the bladder may induce this symptom, which is often a distressing one. Of these the more common causes are cystitis, enlargement and other affections of the prostate, urethritis, stricture, and the presence of foreign bodies, e.g. calculi. In women, in addition to the actual state of the urinary track itself, we have to consider the operation of a number of other causes acting primarily outside the urinary track. These include malpositions of the uterus, tumours in the pelvis, early and late pregnancy, etc. We must also remember the more strictly medical aspects, and investigate carefully the state of the kidneys and also the general state of nutrition. If we mention chronic nephritis and calciilous pyelitis, we have good examples of kidney lesions that may be the causal factors, and in the various forms of diabetes, hysteria, etc., we find constitutional states that may be the determining factors of the condition. A statement of these facts will clearly indicate the necessity of very carefully investigating each case along general as well as special lines. We must further remember that in later life it is by no means uncommon to find cases of frequency that are dependent, partly on a local condition, e.g. enlarged prostate, and partly on a more general state, e.g. renal cirrhosis. This point will influence alike the diagnosis, prognosis, and the treatment. Retention of v/rine is the result of mechanical 26