219 MATERNAL IMPRESSIONS all the necessary elements for the production of an effective impression if it were at all possible, and yet no such effect was in any case produced. Again, no scientific explanation of the modus operandi of such impressions has ever been advanced. Doubtless the mother's mind may be more sensitive to impressions during pregnancy, but this does not in the least degree explain how the foetal body can reflect like a mirror the influences acting upon the mother's mind or body. Further, it is well known from the study of embryology that all the great formative events of embryonic life are already nearly complete by the sixth week of gestation; and it is doubtful whether many women know definitely that they are pregnant at the second month. Teratology gives us no grounds for the belief that such a monstrosity as anencephaly can be produced at any time in antenatal life after the second month. With regard to the second question, there can be no doubt that prolonged or strongly- marked mental states of the mother may affect the development of the foetus in her uterus. That such can produce abortion is not denied ; and that, short of producing miscarriage, they can also lead through vascular and nutritive disturbances to irregularities in embryo-genesis is probable. Times of great national distress have sometimes been followed, as was the siege of Paris in the Franco-Prussian War, by the birth of a large number of infants showing bodily and mental stigmata. But it must also be borne in mind that in addition to the mental perturbation present at such times we have also got to take into account and allow for the bad food, the defective hygiene, and the fre- quent epidemics which prevail. Probably the terror and anxiety of a siege are less important factors in influencing intra-uterine development than the famine and pestilence. Again, the progress of the investigation of the problems of antenatal pathology has yielded and is still yielding results which go to prove that foetal diseases and also embryonic disturbances (causing monstrosities) are produced by the same causes as lead to disease and morbid processes at any other time of life; among these causes the influence of the mind may be assigned a place, but not an important place. In conclusion, it may be added that it has sometimes been stated that the state of the father's mind at the moment of conception has some influence in de- termining the future condition of his offspring —a paternal impression. It need only be said that there is less evidence in favour of the potency of a paternal than of a maternal mental impression. The theory has also invaded another region of discussion and debate which has been prominently before the medical profession lately—the question of telegony. By telegony is meant the alleged influence of a previous sire upon the offspring of the same mother by a later sire. It has been thought that the mother's mind acts upon her later progeny and imprints upon them reminiscent traces of like- ness to the first sire. Another view maintains that in the act of coitus or during pregnancy other ovules in the ovary beside that which is impregnated share in the paternal influence. The question of telegony — that mysterious wireless telegraphy of antenatal life—is still siob judice. Maternity Hospital. —A lying in hospital, or hospital for the care of parturient and puerperal patients and new-born infants; it has been proposed to have special hospitals {Pre-Maternity Jlospitals) for the care of preg- nant women and for the management of the diseases incident to the pregnant state. See Labour, Management. iVIatiCae Folia.—The leaves of Artanthe elongata or Fiper angtistifoliwm are not now officinal in the British Pharmacopoeia; they have been used for their styptic eifects {e.g. in the bleeding from leech-bites) and also in catarrhal conditions {e.g. gonorrhoea). They contain a bitter principle {maticin), an essential oil, artanthic acid, etc.; and there used to be an official infusum (dose, 1-4 fl. oz.); the dose of the powdered leaves is from | to 1 dr. See Astringents. M at lock Bat h. See Balneology (Great Britain, Thermal Waters). Matrix.—A mould, e.g. the tissue or organ which gives form to another structure which it contains or supports (the matrix of a nail or a tooth) ; or intercellular substance, e.g. the matrix of cartilage or of bone ; or (now rare) the uterus. MattOid.—A person on the border-line of insanity; he may, according to Lombroco, be of high intellectual cultivation, but he is a monomaniac (Gr. /xaratos, foolish). Maturation.—The changes which occur in an ovum to prepare it for fertilisation, and which consist in the formation and expulsion of the polar bodies and in the differentiation of the female pronucleus. See Fcetus and Ovum, Development of {Ripiening of Ovum). The term is also used of the full formation (matura- tion) of an abscess or of a cataract. Maturity.—The state or stage of being ripe or fully formed, e.g. the foetus at the ninth month of antenatal life or the genital organs in adult life. See Medicine, Forensic {Infanticide, Signs of Maturity) ; Menstruation {Puberty). MatZOl.—A proprietary mixture of cod- liver oil with matzoon {q.v.), etc. MatZOOn.—A fermented milk, made by