LUNGS, DISEASES OF—PNEUMONOKONIOSIS 70 (2) Chalicosis. — On naked-eye examination the stone-mason's lung appears darker and more solid and bulkier than the normal lung. Sometimes it is shrunken and contracted. Patches and nodules of increased resistance occur here and there. The pleura is commonly adherent, thickened, and irregularly puckered. The cut surface is pigmented, tough, and frequently gritty. The fibrous thickening of the pleura and interlobular septa is very obvious. There is a more or less general fibrosis throughout the lung. In some cases the fibrous areas appear tuberculous; other portions of the lung may be emphysematous. The bronchi are congested and thickened, and often manifest bronchiectatic dilatation. The bronchial glands are enlarged and much indurated. On microscopic examination there is revealed a remarkable increase in the connective tissue elements. The fibrosis affects more especially the pleura, interlobular septa, peribronchial and perivascular tissues. The indurated patches and nodules are seen to be composed of fibrous tissue elements, among which may be detected pigment particles and spicules of stone dust. Some of the fibrous areas yield characteristic evidence of tuberculosis. The determination of the nature of the inhaled dust may be assisted by chemical methods. When the loading of the lung with dust particles is extreme, and more particularly when fibrosis is marked or emphysematous changes are pronounced, the right heart is found more or less dilated. The degree of hypertrophic change is small. Clinical Features.—Apart from the fact that they occur in persons exposed to the inhalation of one or other kind of dust, the clinical manifestations are not distinctive. They resemble those of chronic bronchitis or tuberculosis. Cough and dyspnoea are the chief. The cough develops insidiously, becom- ing more persistent and stubborn as the patient continues exposed to the influence of the dust. Frequently there is a good deal of wheezing. Dyspnoea gradually advances until it becomes a marked feature. In some cases it is extreme ; this may be due to several causes: viz., bronchitis, fibrosis, emphysema, and dilatation of right heart. Expectoration, which is more or less abundant, resembles that of chronic bronchitis. It may contain evidence of the inhaled dust, e.g. coal dust, cotton or other fibres, gritty, silicious, or metallic particles, according to the occupation of the worker. Sometimes the expectoration is foetid from the presence of bronchiectasis. Hajmoptysis may occur either in relation to bronchiectasis or pulmonary tuberculosis. The latter supervenes frequently enough in the later stages of stone- mason's disease, and tubercle bacilli may be found in the expectoration. In such case. the patient's downward progress is more rapid, with evidence of constitutional disorder. Cyanosis may be pronounced. The duration of the disease is commonly lengthy. In proportion as the patient can be removed from the disturbing influence— especially at an early stage — the chance of recovery or arrest is good; otherwise, the condition is apt to get gradually worse. Dyspnoea, cough, pallor, and constitutional enfeeblement increase. Death may be induced by exhaustion, or the causes which determine the fatal issue in bronchitis, bronchiectasis, em- physema, gangrene, or pulmonary tuberculosis. Physical S IGNS. — These are likewise not characteristic. They are the signs of chronic bronchitis, consolidation, emphysema, and per- haps bronchiectasis. If tuberculosis have been grafted on, the signs will vary as in chronic tuberculosis, including perhaps those of vomica formation. The right heart tends to be dilated. Diagnosis.—This rests chiefly on the existence of symptoms of chronic bronchial and pulmonary disturbance in a patient whose occupation necessitates residence during working hours in a dusty atmosphere. In such cases it is fair to assume that inhalation of dust plays the chief part in causation. The character, amount, and distribution of the disturbance may be gauged by physical signs in lungs and heart. 'The possible occurrence of tuberculous inoculation must be kept in view. A process, non-tuber- culous at the start, may later take on tuber- culous character. Tubercle bacilli should, therefore, be sought for. Other diagnostic points are fully discussed under Pulmonary Tuberculosis (p. 48). Prognosis.—When there is no doubt as to the etiological factor, the prognosis chiefly hinges on the possibility of removing the patient from the cause of irritation or improving his working conditions by freer ventilation. Imme- diately, the prognosis rests on the degree of dyspnoea present. If bronchial irritation con- tinues, fibrosis and emphysema increase. These lead, in turn, to dilatation of the right heart, and so to more widespread circulatory failure. The occurrence of complicating bronchiectasis, necrosis, or tuberculosis necessarily increases the gravity of the outlook. Treatment.—A. Prophylactic.—Both the in- dividual and local authorities require to be better informed regarding the danger of dusty occupations. There is too great a tendency to take the existing order of things as a matter of course. A remarkable diminution in the frequency of anthracosis has followed the better ventilation of mines. The same principle should be adopted in relation to all dusty work- rooms and building-sheds. The individual is too apt to attribute his cough and breathlessness to " catching cold," and on that account to adopt a protective policy, the reverse of what is