MOUTH—INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE JAW 461 ments are not loose and remain firm in their proper position, so that no apparatus is neces- sary. In fracture of the alveolar process the fragments can be kept in position by some form of inter-dental splint or by some method of wiring the teeth together, as will be described in treating of fractures of the lower jaw. In cases where the anterior wall of the maxilla is fractured and depressed it may be necessary to perforate the antrum through the canine fossa, and to introduce an instrument in order to force the wall outwards. In cases where there is suppuration of the two maxillfe it has been found necessary to vise a steel spring, passing round the back of the head and terminating in front in two pads, which press upon the cheeks and force the maxilla together. Mandible Etiology and Pathology. — As a rule, the fracture is produced by direct violence. Among the many causes are blows received on the jaw whilst fighting, the kick from a horse, or a fall from some height. Very serious fractures, especially comminuted ones, may be caused by gunshot wounds. Localised fractures of the alveolar process are often caused during the extraction of a tooth. Very rarely in a new- born child the lower jaw has been fractured during difficult labour. The fracture is very seldom caused by indirect violence. These are nearly always caused by muscvUar action, such as a severe fit of coughing, etc. The simplest fractures are fissures, commencing in the outer compact layer where the direct violence was applied, and nearly always involving the inner layer. Incomplete fissure fractures may exist but are of no practical importance, excepting perhaps in the region of the inferior dental nerve, which may be injured at the time or may undergo pressure during repair of the fracture. Complete fractures of the mandible occur in several regions of the bone ; about 90 per cent occur in the body, which is more exposed to injury and also less protected by muscles than the ramus. The most common seat of fracture is in the neighbourhood of the canine teeth and mental foramen, this being the weakest part of the bone. A fracture sometimes occurs in the middle line, either exactly at or very near to the symphysis menti. A fracture of the ramus of the lower jaw is unusual, and generally occurs either at the angle, the neck of the condyle, or the coronoid process. Symptoms.—Fractures of the body and of the jaw are easily recognised ; it is when the ramus is fractured that difficulty may be met with in recognising definitely its existence. Deformity.—This is nearly always present when the fracture is in front of the masseter and internal-pterygoid muscles. The larger anterior fragment is displaced downwards, and the smaller posterior fragment outwards, so that it overlaps the anterior fragment. Sometimes the converse exists—the anterior fragment over- laps the posterior. The fracture through the body is nearly always oblique, the anterior larger fragment being fractured at the expense of its internal surface ; and the smaller posterior fragment at the expense of its external surface ; but the converse is sometimes met with. The displacement of the anterior fragment in a downward direction is due to muscular action, chiefly the muscles passing from the lower jaw to the hyoid bone. The posterior fragment is pulled firmly upwards by the temporal masseter and internal pterygoid muscles, so that the teeth are pressed against those of the superior maxilla. The outward displacement of the posterior frag- ment may be in part caused by the action of the temporal and masseter muscles, but it is chiefly due to the direction of the violence causing the fracture. In fractvires of the neck and the condyle the displacement is considerable, as the external pterygoid pulls the condyle inwards and forward, thus causing the rest of the jaw to deviate to the same side, being pulled over by the un- opposed action of the other external pterygoid. When the coronoid process is fractured the dis- placement may be considerable, but as a rule it is only slight owing to the prolongation of the tendon of the temporal muscle on to the body of the lower jaw. Mobility.—The degree of movement that is present depends upon the seat of the fracture. In fractures of the body it is usual to find con- siderable movement, but when the ascending ramus is fractured there is usually but slight mobility. Very marked mobility occurs when there are two fractures of the body—by no means an uncommon accident. Crepitus.—This can nearly always be obtained, even if there is very little mobility. Pain.—This, as a rule, is severe. It is made much worse when the gums are much lacerated or when the inferior dental nerve is injvired. Haemorrhage.—There is generally a certain amount of blood in the mouth caused by the injury to the gums. It is seldom severe. Escape of Saliva.—This is very often present because the proper movements of the jaw, cheeks, etc., cannot be carried out, and so the saliva is not readily swallowed. Complications.—In fractures caused by very severe direct violence there may be wounds of the face which usually heal very well with ordinary treatment. Serious hfemorrhage is very rare, becaiise, as a rule, the inferior dental artery escapes injury. Secondary hsemorrhage is now very seldom met with. The most frequent complication is loosening and disloca- tion of the teeth. It is most important to ascertain that no tooth or part of a tooth lies between the fractured ends, as this is one of the most common causes of non-union of