86 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—ABSCESS and occasionally pulmonary hydatid cysts sup- purate. (8) Abscess formation also occurs in tubercular disease of the lungs with cavity formation, and in some of the more virulent forms of pneumono- koniosis. While it would be impossible in a few words to describe all of these forms of pulmonary abscess in detail, it is only requisite to state that an abscess is almost always surrounded by an area of hypersemic lung more or less exten- sive, and generally the lung in the immediate neighbourhood shows well-marked catan-hal pneumonia. The clinical features vary greatly in different cases. When the abscess has emptied itself into a bronchus the signs of cavity formation may be readily obtained; but sometimes the abscesses are of small size and not easily diagnosed, and in pysemic conditions the patient's general con- dition is so grave that little attention may be drawn to the pulmonary condition. The sputum from a pulmonary abscess is often foetid, and may be gangrenous, and lung tissue can always be found in large amount in it. Where an abscess opens into the pleura, an empyema, or more probably a pyopneumothorax, will develop. There is little necessity for discussing the diagnosis or prognosis where so many varied forms of abscess formations are being considered together. As a rule, pulmonary abscess is a serious condition, and in not a few of the forms tabulated above, recovery is well-nigh impossible. The treatment varies with the different groups ; but a single abscess should be opened, if possible, and freely drained. Parasitic Affections of Lungs Aspergillosis . . . . . .86 Distommn Ringeri ..... 87 Actinomycosis ...... 88 Aspergillosis and Allied Conditions For many years, and certainly since Hughes Bennett's recorded case in 1842, infection of the lung by the spores of certain fungi has been a recognised disease. Mayer, in 1815, was probably the first to describe the fungi in relation to animals, and many cases have been described within the last twenty years. The Aspergillus fumigattis is the most common pathogenic fungus in the human air-passages, while occasional instances of infection by the Mucor corymbifer and the Oidium albicaiis have occurred, but they are so rare that it is sufficient to give an account of the first-mentioned variety only. The Aspeir/illus fumigatus is a typical mycelial fungus forming a network of fine threads which develop hyphee and spores. The spoi-es measure 2"5 to 3 "5 fx in diameter, and are almost the smallest spores of any of the aspergillus group of fungi. The fungus varies in colour to some extent with that of the habitat on which it is growing, and it flourishes at the body tempera- ture. The spores have a wide distribution in nature, occurring on the leaves and bark of any ordinary tree or plant, also on wheat, oats, barley, rye, maize, and rice; and the fungus may readily be cultivated by damping a piece of common bread, and keeping it in the oven at 40° C. for some hours, when vigorous colonies of the fungus will then make their appearance. The spores have a great vitality; they live for years, develop in all sorts of nutrient media, resist freezing, and they are not killed unless exposed to a temperatui-e of over 60° C. They also resist many of the weaker antiseptic solu- tions, and there is no loss of power of develop- ment with increasing age. No toxin is produced by the fungus in its growth, and it can grow in the lungs of many animals. When we think of the frequency with which every human being comes in contact with the spores, we naturally wonder why aspergillosis of the lungs is not a disease common to every member of the human race. The lungs and air-passages appear to be able to resist its growth, and it is highly prob- able that it is invariably a secondary infection superimposed on lung tissue already diseased, although a number of modern writers—Renon and others—claim that a primary pulmonary aspergillosis does exist. It certainly appears more reasonable to divide the disease into groups, placing in one group sporadic cases, which almost in every instance imply previous lung disease, and in the other, these cases occurring in trades where large numbers of spores would probably find their way into the lungs of those employed—as, for example, millers, and hair-combers, who constantly use large quantities of rice-flour in their work, partly in order to remove the greasiness from the hair. The dust of this flour often contains the spores in large numbers. There is also a special industry in Paris, that of rearing and training carrier pigeons. These pigeons are fed from the mouth of the trainer, morning and evening, and the food consists of canary seed and various other grains on which the spores are frequently found. Comparatively few are engaged in the pigeon trade, but hair- combing supplies not a few instances of what has been termed endemic aspergillosis. So full of dust is the air of the hair-comber's work- rooms, that birds and dogs soon die if confined to these apartments, cats alone appearing to be able to withstand the effects of inhaling dust laden with the spores. Apart from the cases due to the constant inhaling of dust with spores, it is extremely probable that many cases of the disease occur, and are simply not recognised because masked by other pulmonary conditions present. The disease itself simulates bronchitis and phthisis, acute or chronic, sometimes with much