MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 184 the health, has become excited into pathogenic activity, resulting in the slow formation of pus unattended by the usual clinical signs of inflam- mation. In many cases of chronic abscess there is a very definite history of a blow upon the breast a few months previously, the accident causing slight bruising, a severe contusion, or a hgematoma. In other cases the abscess is the resiilt of suppuration of a galactocele or of some other form of cyst. In all these cases we have a locus minoris resistentiw to which the pyogenic organisms gain access by way of the ducts or along the lymphatics, the atrium in the latter case being furnished by a sore or fissure on the nipple; or the organisms may be carried to the part by the blood-stream. Occasionally the abscess develops without apparent cause. The relative frequency of the condition is greater in married than in single women, and it occurs most frequently during middle adult life. The abscess, which is almost invariably single, is generally situated in the centre of the corpus mamm£e. Clinically, it presents itself as a firm, and usually somewhat nodular, tumour-like mass with a fairly well-defined outline. It is gener- ally tender to pressure, and in the later stages deep elasticity or more definite fluctuation may be felt. The nipple is retracted in rather more than half the cases—in 13 out of 22 cases analysed by Williams. Of this number the same authority found the overlying skin adherent in 6, some glandular enlargement in the axilla in 5, an indistinct sense of fluctua- tion in 5, and a puriform discharge from the nipple in 2. In half the cases the affection dated back only six months, and in only 5 did it exceed one year. In some instances the whole mamma is indurated throughout, and the overlying skin may be slightly reddened and oedematous. These non-tuberculous forms of chronic ab- scess owe their importance to the fact that, clinically, their resemblance to carcinoma may be very close. In Mr. Marmaduke Sheild's excellent work on Diseases of the By-east will be found notes of several such cases. When the wall of the abscess is thick and dense the swelling may possess the stony hard- ness of cancer, and as the nipple is often re- tracted and the pectoral axillary glands slightly enlarged and indurated, it is not surprising that it is within the experience of many surgeons to have removed such a breast on the supposition that the disease was malignant. Occasionally an additional cancerous sign may be present in the shape of fixation of the breast to the deeper parts, due to the adhesion of the wall of the abscess to the pectoral fascia. If the mass be distinctly tender to pressure, somewhat elastic instead of dense, and with its outlines not par- ticularly well defined, tlie diagnosis is strongly in favour of abscess. The treatment is to make an exploratory puncture or incision in all cases where the dia- gnosis is in the least degree doubtful. After evacuating the pus, the unhealthy granulations lining the abscess are scraped away with a Volkmann's spoon. The cavity is cleaned out with a gauze swab and a drainage-tube intro- duced, or, if the cavity be small, iodoform gauze or worsted may be substituted for the tube. When there is widespread infiltration and inflammatory induration of the breast tissue around the abscess the whole organ had better be removed, and the same course should be adopted if there be any suspicion that the ad- jacent induration is the result of carcinomatous infiltration. It is in just such doubtful condi- tions that the nitric acid test is so valuable. If the indurated mass be excised, cut across, and placed in a 5 per cent solution of the acid for a few minutes, and then washed in water, there will seldom be any difiiculty in deciding whether the induration is due to malignant disease or merely to connective-tissue hyper- plasia and sclerosis; in the former case the tissue will have a dull white appearance and a dense or hard consistence, while in the latter case the fibrous tissue becomes swollen and more or less translucent, and the consistence, instead of being hard, will be tough and leathery or india-rubber-like. Tuberculosis of the Mamma Tuberculous disease of the mamma is a rare affection. As scrofulous disease it was known (according to Williams) to John Hunter, and subsequently was clearly described by Astley Cooper. In 1881 Dubar published his classical thesis upon tuberculosis of the mamma, and an exhaustive paper by Gautier contains an analysis of seventy-seven cases. In the Annals of Surgery for 1898 Halstead and Le Count preface the report of a case by a review of the literature on the subject, combined with a useful summary of our present knowledge of this condition. Only some three or four cases have been reported as occurring in the male breast. In the female the disease generally occurs between the ages of twenty-five and thirty-five, never before puberty, and very rarely after the meno- pause. It is very seldom that both breasts are affected. The disease occurs as frequently in the single as in the married, and is not more frequent in the married who have nursed their children. The condition is generally preceded or accompanied by tuberculous manifestations in other parts, more especially in the lungs, pleura;, axillary and cervical glands, less fre- quently in the bones and joints. The tubercle bacilli, generally few in number, and occasionally not to be demonstrated at all, may reach the gland by way of the blood- vessels, the lymphatics, or the milk ducts.