MEASLES 225 are very liable to be mistaken for rotheln, unless clearly connected with others of a positive character. In some instances faint indications of the eruption may be seen from the outset, the rash appearing as if undecided whether to come out or not for several days, or it may even recede. On the fourth day, however, it usually burst out in its full development, attended with the customary increase of pyrexia. The severer forms of measles practically com- prise two varieties, the pulmonary and the toxic. The pulmonary variety is most often found in strumous children and in those who are subject to some chronic lung affection, and, moreover, the disease is somewhat prone to take this form in young children recovering from whooping- cough, diphtheria, or scarlet fever. As the name would imply, the brunt of the disease falls on the respiratory organs. The invasion is characterised by severe catarrh, the respiration is unduly rapid, and the cough frequent and ineffectual. The temperature is sustained at a high level, and shows but little, if any, re- mission during the pre-eruptive period. The rash is usually intense and often patchy, and as it develops the general condition becomes aggravated. The breathing becomes still more rapid, the surface somewhat dusky, and the patient often delirious. Fine crepitation, in addition to cooing rhonchus, may usually be heard over the lungs, especially at the bases, at about this time, though no obvious dulness can be detected. Laryngeal stridor in some degree is commonly present, though rarely in itself sufficient to give rise to actual dyspnoea. Most cases of the pulmonary variety are fatal. Cyanosis gradually supervenes, and the delirium gives place to drowsiness which soon merges into coma. Death, which is rarely delayed much beyond the end of the week in very young patients, is often preceded by con- vulsions. In the toxic variety of the disease, which is sometimes spoken of as " typhoid measles," the symptoms develop with great rapidity. The temperature quickly reaches 105° or more, and the pulse becomes rapid and feeble, often registering 180° to 200° at an early stage. The respiration is shallow and frequent, and the tongue dry, brown, and tremulous. The rash is intense, often patchy in its distribution, and soon becomes distinctly petechial. Epistaxis and other forms of hsemorrhage are liable to occur. Muscular tremor is present, and delirium which soon passes into stupor, and the patient dies comatose usually on the fourth or fifth day. Cases of malignant measles are not very common in this country at the present day, at any rate in London. It is certainly possible, as was suggested by Hilton Fagge, that a good many cases of what was known as " black measles " in the past were in reality hsemorrhagic smallpox ; but, on the other hand, the low temperature VOL. VI and mental clearness of variola nigra are unlike toxic measles as we know it. Post-scarlatinal measles is characterised by considerable shortening of the pre - eruptive stage. The rash often appears on the first day and is rarely delayed beyond the second. The disease sometimes assumes the pulmonary form at the outset; but, on the other hand, septic broncho-pneumonia may develop at a later stage and prove fatal. Measles arising concurrently with or shortly after diphtheria is apt to be attended with a recrudescence of the exudation. It usually affects the larynx, from whence, as a rule, it rapidly extends to the bronchial passages. Measles associated either with scarlet fever or whooping-cough is apt to be serious, bvit its concurrence with diphtheria represents the most dangerous combination of any two infectious dis- orders. The results after tracheotomy are, as a rvile, very disappointing, but since the use of antitoxin they have been miich more favourable. Complications.—In the large proportion of measles deaths the fatal result is due to one of its recognised complications rather than to the toxic intensity of the disease. The complications, with but few exceptions, represent an aggravation, in some cases an ex- tension, of certain of the catarrhal symptoms which are normal accompaniments of the attack. The most important of these, as might be expected, are inflammatory affections of the respiratory organs. Laryngeal catarrh in some degree is present in most attacks, but occasionally acute laryngitis, attended with stridulous breathing, sets in, and becomes a source of actual dyspna3a. It most frequently reaches its height during the develop- ment of the rash, after which, under appropri- ate treatment, it commonly subsides. In some instances laryngeal obstruction supervenes at a later stage during early convalescence, and is then usually dependent upon diphtheritic in- fection. The exudation rapidly extends to the smaller bronchi, and the condition becomes very serious. In somes cases, particularly those in which the signs of laryngeal stenosis have been present from an early stage, the condition appears to be dependent on pyococcal infection. Under these circumstances no true membrane may be formed, but there is much swelling of the laryngeal mucous membrane, attended with profuse muco-purulent bronchorrhoea. Trache- otomy affords but little relief, and the patient after a protracted illness usually succumbs to septic broncho-pneumonia. Bronchitis affecting the smaller tubes is liable to arise as an extension of the catarrhal inflam- mation of the larger bronchi, which is normally present in measles. It is doubtful whether true capillary bronchitis ever occurs without some involvement of the pulmonary alveoli. It most often arises during the eruptive stage, and, like