229 MEASLES repeated in twelve hours time. This may or may not be successful in averting the necessity for tracheotomy. The onset of severe diarrhoea frequently calls for treatment; the diet should be confined to milk, which may be either pep- tonised or diluted in equal proportion with barley or lime water; and a few grains of Dover's powder may be given every four or six hours, if necessary. A powder consisting of two grains each of bismuth subnitrate, salicylate of soda, and Dover's powder for a child of five, repeated every six hours, is a useful remedy; or a few drops of laudanum may be tried, and the lower bowel washed out twice daily by means of a funnel and tube with a mixture consisting of a cold saturated solution of boric acid and lime-water. The diet may be changed by the substitution of whey, with the addition of one- eighth of cream for the milk; and to a young child brandy, in 30-minim doses, may be given every two hoiu's, and some raw-meat juice. In cases of the pulmonary type, or should bron- chitis or broncho-pneumonia supervene, the en- casement of the chest in hot linseed - meal poultices is of the utmost value ; the immediate benefit derived being frequently most striking. Since the broncho-pneumonia of measles is highly infective, the child on its first appearance shovild be promptly isolated from other cases of measles. In toxic attacks but little can be done. The strength as far as possible should be kept up with concentrated nourishment, and alcohol should be freely administered. Pyrexia and restlessness are best treated with tepid or cold sponging, and the wet pack may be employed; but cold bathing or the administration of an- tipyretic drugs are better left alone, as they are actually injurious in many cases. Convulsions in measles are usually fatal. For their relief the body should be immersed in a hot bath and cold effusions applied to the head, or a couple of leeches may be applied behind the ears, since these measures are re- ported to have been successful. Measly Beef or Pork.—Meat or ham from animals affected with the cysticercus bovis or the trichina spiralis (encysted form). See Parasites (Tcenia Solium, Cysticercus Cellu- losce); Parasites {Nematodes, Trichina Spiralis). Measurements. See F(etus and Ovum, Development of {^Determination of Period of Development); Generation, Female Organs OF {Pelvis, Diameters, Uterus, Dimensions, etc.) : Labour, Physiology of {Hard Passages); La- bour, Physiology of {Passenger, Foetal Head, etc.); Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Pelvimetry); Pregnancy, Physiology {Local Changes, Size of Uterus). Measures. *S^ee Metric System; Pre- scribing. Meat. See Allantiasis ; Botulism ; Cho- lera Nostras {Etiology); Diet {Animal Foods); Food {Aleat, Characteristics of Good Meat, etc.); Foot and Mouth Disease {Flesh of Diseased Animals); Immunity {Immune Serums, Meat Poisoning); Infant Feeding {Eggs and Meat Foods) ; Intestines, Diseases of {Enteritis, Ex- citing Causes); Invalid Feeding {General Pre- paration of Meats, Food in Pyrexial States, Food in Convalescence, Salisbury Diet, etc.); Physio- logy, Food and Digestion {Sources of Food- Stuffs, Flesh); Psoriasis {Etiology, Excessive Meat Eating); Sprue {Treatment, Meat Diet); Toxicology {Animal Foods which may cause Poisoning). Meatotomy.—Incision of the meatus urinarius as a surgical procedure. Meatus.—An opening or passage such as the meatus urinarius, the meatus auditorius, and the meatus narium. Mechanism.—The structure or arrange- ment of parts in a machine or the manner in which a bodily function or act is performed, such as the mechanism of labour, of vision {e.g. accommodation), of hearing, etc. See Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism ; Accommodation {Nervous Mechanism); etc. Mechanotherapy.— The use of mechanical means in the treatment of disease or injiiry. Meckel's Cartilag^e. See Embryo- logy {Organogenetic Rearrangements, Branchial Arches). Meckel's Diverticulum.—The relic of the vitelline duct, usually attached to the lower part of the small intestine (the ileum) and sometimes causing intestinal strangulation, etc. See Embryology (Vitelline Stalk) ; In- testines, Diseases of {Malformation); Intes- tines, Surgical Affections of {Obstruction, Strangulation by Bands); Umbilicus, Diseases OP {Fistula from Persistent Omphalo-mesenteric Duct). Meckel's Ganglion. —The spheno- palatine ganglion. See Nerves, Neuralgia {Trigeminal, Treatment, Meckel's Ganglion). Meckelectomy.—Removal of Meckel's ganglion as a surgical procedure for trigeminal neuralgia, etc. See Nerves, Neuralgia {Treat- ment of Trigeminal Neuralgia). MeCOnalgia. — The neuralgic pains which follow indulgence in opium. Meconic Acid.—An acid, H2C7H2O7, 3H2O, contained in opium, capable of forming salts {meconates of potassium, sodium, etc.). See Opium. MeCOnine.—An alkaloid, CjoHjoO^, exist-