HELENA 293 ulcer. It is probable that melsena is a more prominent feature in cases of duodenal ulceration than in those of gastric origin. For the same reason it is probable that meltena is more fre- quently present in those gastric cases when the ulcer is situated at or near the pylorus than in fundal cases. A sudden intestinal haemorrhage with a history of epigastric pains and previous gastralgic attacks is suggestive of duodenal ulceration. In adult or late life melsena may be a symptom in cirrhosis of the liver, and is probably seen in its most pronounced form in the earlier stages of the disease before the compensatory changes in the circulation have been established. This class of case has sometimes to be diagnosed by a process of exclusion, more assistance being gained from the clinical history and general appearance of the patient than from any definite gastric or hepatic physical signs. In these cases we must also have regard to the actual state of the vessel wall in the digestive system as elsewhere. The walls of the vessels—veins, capillaries, and arterioles—are doubtless in most instances much weakened through the influence of the same toxic substances that are inducing the cirrhosis. Quite apart from cases of cir- rhosis, however, the existence of this vascular weakness is undoubted, and it is probable that not a few cases of melsena, of otherwise unex- plained origin, are largely or entirely due to the existence of this vascular lesion here reported. In all doubtful cases, therefore, a careful study should be made into the whole cardiac vascular system of the patient. In connection with gastro-intestinal disease, as in other affections, the great importance of vascular affections is, as a rule, far too much ignored. In typhoid fever the hsemorrhage may be very scanty or very profuse. In the former case it is probably due to intense hypersemia, whereas in the latter it is due to actual erosion of a larger vessel. It is usually encountered in or about the third week of the illness, and is associated with separation of the slough. There is, of course, no special difficulty in the dia- gnosis ; the only cases that are likely to give trouble are those where a practitioner is called to a case in which the early symptoms of typhoid have been so slight as not to necessitate medical attendance. In this connection it is well to remember that even a fatal collapse may super- vene before the blood appears in the stool. In tuberculosis, melsena is by no means common. In a very few cases it may be one of the earliest symptoms. The amount of blood is visually small, but a few cases have been recorded where the hsemorrhage was fatal. Little more need be said about the recurrence of hsemorrhage from the bowel in such conditions as dysentery, purpura, heart disease, pernicious ansemia, carcinoma of the intestines, or intestinal parasites. If we bear in mind the possibility of these various causes, a systematic examination of each case will, as a rule, suffice to establish the diagnosis. In every case care should be taken to exclude any purely local cause in the region of the anus and rectum, and at the same time we must bear in mind the possibility that the blood passed was really swallowed, e.g. from the pharynx or nose, in which case it has, of course, no special significance. This latter point is specially true of cases occurring in infancy and childhood. The condition of melsena neonatorum is elsewhere discussed. It will suffice here to draw attention to the fact that we must at all times ascertain that the blood passed has not been swallowed at or after birth, or sucked in through a fissure or otherwise from the breast of the mother. Prognosis.—The prognosis naturally varies with the cause. Perhaps the most important point pertains to the cause referred to when the occurrence of mehena is well marked, and even for a time persistent; cases when the diagnosis may lie between an early carcinoma, or an early hepatic cirrhosis (where even a likely history may be wanting), but where the course of time clearly indicates that neither of these are cor- rect, and we are forced to conclude that we are really dealing with a vascular lesion as a primary cause. A knowledge of the existence of such cases may save us from giving an unduly un- favourable prognosis in certain cases where the clinical picture is not distinctive. It might be added that an exactly parallel picture is some- times afforded in hsematemesis. The writer has seen a case with considerable hsematemesis, followed later by melsena, in which the clinical picture presented almost justified a diagnosis of carcinoma. Any suspicion of cirrhosis, as judged by the usual cause, could not reasonably be excluded. This patient recovered very slowly, and in fifteen months she was nearly as well as she was before the hsematemesis. She was the subject of distinct arterial disease, with slight cardiac weakness. Treatment.—The treatment will vary with the cause, but the general lines of treatment are the same in all cases. Rest the part; complete rest in bed, with a light, non-irritating diet, are essentials. Medicinal measures are not necessary, but are valuable in special cases. The usual styptics are of service, preference being perhaps given to hammamelis, ferric compounds, turpentine. In grave cases opium is the best astringent, and its beneficial action is both a direct and indirect one; but external measures are of service in some cases, preference being given to the application of cold. Care should be taken in the exhibition of astringent enemata, and special care taken in their administration. As the surgical treatment of hsematemesis has in experienced hands given most gratify- ing results in a class of cases where formerly