MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS 345 may cause a permanent arrest of menstruation and a premature menopause. In these cases of nervous amenorrhoea the first essential is the removal of all causes of nervous disturbance. A change of scene and change of occupation and cheerful surroundings are advisable. If there be nervous excitement, sedatives, such as bromide of potash and chloral, may be needed. If there be nervous depression, tonics, such as strychnine and damiana, are useful. If there be a tendency to ansemia, iron and arsenic are called for. If there be constipation, aloes and cascara should be given. Should these various measures fail to restore the periods, then emmenagogues (drugs which act as uterine stimulants) ,should be tried. The most useful of these are senecio, apiol, caulo- phyllum, Pulsatilla, manganese, and tabloids of ovarian tissue. 8. From Disordered Metabolism.—In amenor- rhoea associated with obesity, plethora, or myxoedema, it is more important to treat these conditions than the amenorrhoea. The tendency to obesity must be combated by a strict "anti- fat " regimen, outdoor exercise, vapour baths, and aperients. Tabloids of thyroid gland are often very efficacious, not only in reducing the excess of fat, but also in restoring the functions of the uterus. It is, however, a remedy which must be carefully watched, as in some cases it causes alarming palpitation and cardialgia. The plethoric cases require a spare, non- stimulating diet, plenty of outdoor exercise, saline aperients, and vascular and nervine sedatives—-especially bromides, valerian and aconite. Stimulants (such as alcohol, tea, and coffee) and tonics (such as iron and strychnine) must be avoided, as they will only aggravate the symptoms of plethora. In severe cases occasional blood-letting is decidedly beneficial. For the myxoedematous cases there is one sovereign remedy—tabloids of thyroid tissue. As the myxoedema subsides, the menstrual periods become re-established. Menorrhagia and Metrorrhagia By menorrhagia is meant excessive menstrua- tion. This may be due to three factors—(a) A change in the "type," e.g. instead of the period occurring every four weeks it may appear every three weeks. (5) A change in the "habit," e.g. instead of lasting from four to six days it may last ten or twelve, (c) A change in the amount of blood lost each day, e.g. instead of a patient using one or two diapers daily, she may soil three or four a day. Whichever factor be modified, the ultimate result is an abnormal drain of blood from the body. All three factors may be altered : thus a patient who previously menstruated every twenty-eight days, for four days, using one diaper a day, may come on unwell every twenty- one days, for seven days, using three diapers a day. In determining, therefore, whether or not a given patient's menstruation is excessive we must take into consideration her "type," her " habit," and the number of diapers soiled. By metrorrhagia is meant haemorrhage from the uterus at other times than the monthly periods. It is independent of the menstrual process, and is quite irregular in frequency, duration, and quantity. In some cases, as where there is cancer and myoma, the patient suffers from both menor- rhagia and metrorrhagia. Causes.—The causes of hsemorrhage from the uterus are many and varied. They may be considered under two headings—(1) those which are general, systemic, or predisposing ; (2) those which are local, pelvic, or exciting causes. 1. General Causes.—{a) Any disorder of the system which diminishes the coagvilability of the blood or which lessens the resistance of the capillary walls. Amongst these may be classed such blood diseases as purpura hsemorrhagica, scurvy, haemophilia, acute fevers (such as small- pox, typhus, and malaria), cholsemia, cirrhosis of the liver, chronic alcoholism, phosphorus poisoning, and lead poisoning. (b) Any condition which causes increased backward pressure in the abdominal veins and chronic venous congestion of the pelvic viscera, such as valvular heart disease, cirrhosis of the lung, emphysema, constipation, tight lacing, and abdominal tumovirs obstructing the pelvic veins. 2. Local Causes.—These act (1) by causing acute or chronic engorgement of the pelvic viscera in general, and of the uterus in par- ticular ; or (2) by causing a direct breach of the uterine mucosa. (a) Certain Complications of Pregnancy.— The most common of these are placenta preevia, partial separation of the placenta, threatened abortion, and vesicular mole. In all these con- ditions the essential cause of the bleeding is a partial separation of the placenta, tearing open the uterine venous sinuses, whilst at the same time the uterus cannot contract and retract because of its contents. (6) Certain Complications of the Puerperium. —Such are inversion of the uterus, subinvolu- tion and retention of portions of placenta. The latter condition is an extremely common cause, and should always be suspected when after a miscarriage or full-time labour irregular flood- ings occur and recur in spite of rest, ergot, and hydrastis. (c) The various lesions of ectopic gestation, such as ruptured tubal pregnancy, tubal abor- tion, and pelvic heematocele. The uterine mucosa becomes hypertrophied and hypertemic, and is often discharged as a complete decidual cast of the cavity of the uterus. In many cases