138 MALAEIA generally associated with coma of greater or less intensity. The symptoms do not differ from cases of cerebral embolism due to other causes, but there may be convulsions of a marked character in these cases. If recovery occurs it is usually rapid and complete. In rare cases, especially in comatose attacks, patients may become completely or partially blind, either in one eye or in both. The amaurosis is usually transient; occasionally, however, it persists and there is a greater or less permanent defect of vision. Ophthalmo- scopic examination will reveal retinal haemor- rhages ; they occur from plugging of the retinal and choroidal vessels by parasites. In cases in which permanent defect of vision persists it is due to optic neuritis. The distinction between quinine and malarial am- blyopia will be referred to under the heading of Diagnosis. Algide Group:— 1. Gastric Form. — In this form the gastric symptoms are by far the most prominent, and their malarial origin may in some cases be over- looked. It is associated with persistent vomit- ing, which may contain no bile, with epigastric tenderness and retracted abdomen. Choleraic Form.—This is not uncommon in many intensely malarious regions, where it may simulate very closely Asiatic cholera, both in its symptoms and in its rapidly fatal termination. The onset is often gradual, the patient being quiet and listless, and it is not perhaps until the pulse be felt that the serious condition of the patient is recognised. Watery diarrhoea is frequent, but the bilious element generally persists more or less in the stools. The patient becomes pinched, the eyes sunken, the voice weak, and the urine may be suppressed. It would be impossible to diagnose the condition with certainty without the aid of the microscope. Improvement may set in during the sweating stage. If recovery occurs it is generally rapid. 3. Dysenteric Fo7-m.—This is common in certain malarious regions, and closely resembles true dysentery. It is usually accompanied with hsemorrhage from the bowels and else- where, but there may be pyrexia, enlargement of spleen, and a history of previous malarial attacks. The diagnosis is very important, because if the case be treated as one of dysentery, death may occur. Diagnosis de- pends upon the recognition of the malarial parasite in the blood. 4. Syncopal Form.—Attacks of fever in which syncope occurs are occasionally met with, generally in those who have some cardiac or other visceral lesion. It may occur during an unusually profuse sweating stage or at the commencement of the rigor, or, in fact, at any stage. The exertion of sitting up sometimes induces fatal syncope, especially after a profuse and prolonged sweating stage. The Blood in Malignant Fever.—It is not so easy to study the biological and morpho- logical characters of the malignant parasite {Haemomenas prcecox) as was the case with the benign and quartan, because, as already stated, the latter half of its life-cycle is carried on in the blood-vessels of the internal organs. Reference has already been made to the view of the Italian school concerning the varieties of the malignant parasite, but other observers in the same field are unable to confirm with certainty the existence of a non-pigmented quotidian, a pigmented quotidian, and a tertian variety. There is, nevertheless, one distinctive character of this species of malarial parasite, namely, the crescentic shape of the gamete cell. In malignant malaria small non-pigmented amoebulse will be found in the blood, especially after the onset of the rigor. They resemble very closely the young benign tertian amoebulse, but are smaller (see Plate II., Fig. 20). They are usually extremely active, but have a marked tendency to become quiescent from time to time. They then assume a ring form, having a well- defined outline ; but if one of these rings be watched its margin may be seen to gradually become undulating and less distinct, and then pseudopodia are once more protruded and amoeboid movement is renewed. After a time the ring form is resumed once more. Two or more parasites in one corpuscle are more frequently met with in this form of infection than in the benign forms (see Plate II., Fig. 24) ; in severe infections occasionally five or six may be found in one corpuscle. Twelve to eighteen hours after the onset of the attack a few parasites may be foimd somewhat larger in size and possessing one or two granules of fine pigment (see Plate II., Figs. 23 and 24). About this time the parasites gradually become less and less numerous, until towards the end of the cycle very few indeed may be found in the peripheral circulation. If, however, the splenic blood be examined, parasites in all stages of development, many of them enclosed in macro- phages, can be found in large numbers. The sporocyte of this form of malaria occupies about one-third of the red corpuscle, is a small irregularly-shaped body, consisting of a block of pigment and from five to twelve minute spores; it is frequently located to one side of the red cell. Rarely, advanced forms and even sporocytes may be met with in the peripheral blood. Generally a few of the infected red cells will be observed to be dark in colour and having the peculiar tint of old brass. These are called " brassy bodies" (globuli rossi ottonati), and are red corpuscles which have become pro- foundly altered by the parasites which they contain; they are shrunken and irregular in shape and stain imperfectly (see Plate II., Fig. 25) . These "brassy bodies" are almost exclus-