MYCETOMA 501 coloured areas frequently black or yellow in colour, and occasionally small granulations pro- trude. If the probe be introduced it can be made to pass through the diseased tissues until the bone is reached; through this it can be pushed with the greatest care, and a sensation of grating is imparted. If the bones have be- come much softened the arch of the foot is destroyed, and very little weight can be placed upon it. Some time usually elapses before this stage is reached. There is seldom any fever, nor does the general health suffer except in cases of great severity. When, however, abscesses form in the soft parts, as in the muscles of the calf, the patient becomes feverish, emaciated, and has the usual appearances of septicaemia. The glands become secondarily affected and more or less enlarged; they are found on microscopic examination to be infil- trated by the fungus, the femoral glands, and occasionally those around the external iliac artery have been found diseased. When the disease commences in the sole of the foot a small indurated area is first notice- able, which gradually extends, while openings subsequently appear upon the surface. In the early stage it is frequently extremely difficult to diagnose between inflammatory changes likely to be produced by the introduction of a foreign body into the sole, for which, in fact, it is usually mistaken by the patient. The plantar surface becomes gradually bulging, and so unfortunately interferes at an early period with locomotion, preventing the patient from carry- ing on his work, hence he is likely to seek advice before the disease has markedly advanced. Under these circumstances, except from below, the appearance of the foot, as a whole, is not appreciably affected for a con- siderable time, and the dorsal surface may, in fact, appear perfectly normal and the toes un- altered. Owing to disease of the extremity the calf muscles waste, and thus the size of the foot becomes still more marked. Little or no move- ment of the digits can be made by the patient when the disease is advanced. Similar changes take place in the hand : the bulging of the palm is most conspicuous, and the openings on both surfaces are usually numerous; the roots of the fingers are much enlarged, while the fingers themselves appear shortened. As no weight is placed on this part, as in the case of the foot, pain is only slight or practically absent. Pathology.—The changes in the tissues are so marked and peculiar that it is not surpris- ing that several different views were put forward to explain their causation, that is before the fungus was discovered. These changes are undoubtedly due to chronic inflammation and degenerative changes set up by the presence of the fungus. The skin is thickened and tough on section, the underlying tissues are replaced by granula- tion tissue, fibrous and fatty structures, the muscular fibres having more or less entirely disappeared, and even the plantar and palmar fascise and tendons gradually metamorphosed and destroyed; but portions of the muscular strata can generally be detected. The thickness of the parts is much, and in some cases enor- mously increased. In the substance of these tissues are numerous nodules, varying in size from a pin's head to that of a pea or larger, and in tliese the characteristic particles, black, yellow, or red, can readily be discovered. Some nodules may be broken down, soft and caseous in character, or small abscesses are formed between the layers of tissue. The bones, when much diseased, are extremely light and porous. Similar nodules are found scattered thi-oughout their substance ; if these are removed, round cavities are left connected together by fine channels; the whole bone itself is friable, red in colour, and easily perforated by the probe. The shape of the individual bones is very slightly altered. Their articular surfaces are seldom ulcerated as in caries, nor is there usually effusion between them. On section, masses of fungus are frequently found immediately be- neath the cartilage. When the muscles are large like those of the calf, abscesses containing purulent fluid and a quantity of roe-like bodies are frequently met with in the intermuscular spaces. In leprosy the bones are also light and porous, but the round shot-like cavities are absent, and the bones, particularly those of the phalanges, much attenuated. As long ago as 1874, Dr. Vandyke Carter gave a close and accurate description of this disease, which he rightly attributed to a vegetable fungus, but did not succeed in de- tecting the real organism. Later, Bassini, Kanthack, Boyce, and Surveyor made careful observations microscopically, and established the fact that the disease is due to a Ray fungus ; they differ, however, in some particulars, and Boyce and Surveyor are of opinion that there is more than one variety of fungus present. The fungus appears to be allied to that of actinomycosis; so far as I am aware, no in- stances of mycetoma have been described occurring in cattle, whereas in actinomycosis this is common enough. The particles of the yellow variety exhibit under the microscope a central mass readily stained by aniline dyes, while peripherally there is a zone of radiating filaments, also club-like processes, which too stain deeply with aniline dyes; and fatty crystals are also present, and sometimes cal- careous and phosphatic crystals and black particles containing iron. The central mass is described by Kanthack and others as con- sisting of a network of mycelial filaments. In order to cut sections, the best method (Surveyor)