MILK 415 IV. Therapeutic— Kumys . . . . .418 V. Pathological— Tuberculosis, Enteric Fever, Scarla- tina, etc. ..... 420 VI. Adulteration— Normal Limits and Variations, Dilution, Preservation . . 421 VII. Examination— Physical, Chemical, Bacteriological 421 VIII. Control— Elimination of Tuberculosis . See also Cholera, Epidemic (Etiology); Diabetes Mellitus (Treatment, Diet); Diet (Milk and its Products); Diphtheria (Modes of Disseminatioii); Food (Milk and Milk Prodmcts); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium (Treat- ment, Diet); Immunity (Antitoxin in Milk); Infant Feeding (Human Milk, Artificial Feed- ing) ; Invalid Feeding (Milk and its Products, Peptonised Milk, Milk Puddings, Milk Arrow- root, etc.); Menstruation and its Disorders (Vicarious Menstruation); Nursery Hygiene (Milk Supply); Obesity (Treatment); Physio- logy, Food and Digestion (Food, Milk); Pan- creas, Physiology of (Ferment); Physiology, Excretion of Matter (Milk Secretion) ; Puer- perium. Physiology ('■^ Milk Fever," Lactation) ; PuERPERiUM, Pathology (Affections of Mamma and Conditions interfering with Suckling); Scarlet Fever (Etiology, Exciting Causes) ; Scurvy, Infantile (Treatment, Fresh Milk); Toxicology (Milk); Typhoid Fever (Etiology, Mode of Lnfection). Section I.—Industrial Milk Production.—The quantity and quality of the milk depend on, inter alia, breed and age, feeding and shelter, and are influenced by climate and weather. The British farmers prefer the Shorthorns and Ayrshires as being very hardy, giving much milk, though not rich in fat, and fattening well when done with. The Ayrshires will thrive on the poorest pasture, but well repay care; their pugnacity is, how- ever, against them. Devons give a richer milk and plenty of beef ; and the docile, hornless Red- polls are good milkers, but bad graziers. The best for butter-making are the little black Kerry cattle, very hardy and splendid milkers ; and the Guernseys and Jerseys, alike remarkable for the golden yellow colour of their butter. These two breeds are quite distinct, and their purity is maintained in their native islands by local legislation ; but in England they are often crossed with hardier breeds, for the delicacy of their constitution necessitates their being housed for more than half the year, and renders them peculiarly liable to contract tuberculosis. All cows should be dried for two months before calving; the quantity of the milk is greatest before the eighth week after, but its quality improves subsequently. In cold weather they should be sheltered at night and the more tender breeds by day, though open sheds suffice for the hardier. The Scotch practice of putting up movable shutters in front, leaving about three feet open above, answers well for most, and in such sheds the question of cubic space need not be considered. Some shelter should be provided against rain, for, apart from the suffering involved in exposure to cold and wet, it is economically unwise, since the food that would otherwise go to milk is employed in maintaining the body heat. The warmer they are kept the more milk they yield, but this must not be achieved at the cost of ventilation and cubic space. Cow-sheds—called "shippons" in the northern counties, and "byres" in Scotland—are, as a rule, most insanitary. Cleanliness and ventila- tion are even more necessary than warmth. At least 1000 cubic feet should be allowed to each cow, exclusive of gangways, and free ventilation secured by ample openings in the front wall, closed against snow or extreme cold only; louvred apertures in the opposite walls, well above the heads of the animals, and in the roof, over which there should never be a loft. The floor should be of hard pavior bricks or rough concrete—not of cobbles, which cannot be kept clean — and slanting to a well-laid gutter of glazed half pipes or moulded in concrete, with sufficient fall, leading to a tank, no trap being interposed. It should never discharge into a pond or ditch. The cost of the tank will be nothing compared with the value of the liquid manure produced by the urine and dung carried down with the washings. In tying up the cows their heads should not be close to the wall, for they are apt to bespatter it with their nasal mucus, and one tuberculous cow will thus infect others occupying the same stall after her. To avoid this a space of three feet should intervene between the feeding troughs and wall, which, besides its sanitary advantages, permits of the troughs being replenished without disturbing the cows, whence it is commonly known as a "feeding walk." When the cows are indoors for many hours drinking troughs should be provided, supplied by pipes from a cistern. The litter should be removed daily, the floors being washed down during the change. The straw-yard, as commonly met with, is sanitarily an abomination and economically a blunder. It should be kept as clean and dry as possible, well paved with concrete (not rough stones), and drained into the same tank as the cow houses and sheds. Drinking troughs, sup- plied from a cistern and frequently cleaned, should be mounted three or four feet from the ground, so that the cows shall not foul the water with their urine or dung. The practice of allowing cows to drink from ponds fouled with urine and sewage is detrimental to their