MERCURY 365 administration is by fumigation : the patient sits on a chair with a blanket wrapped round him and subjects himself for twenty minutes to the fumes of 30 grains of calomel volatilised by a spirit-lamp arrangement placed beneath the chair. Lastly, mercury may be given by intra- muscular injection, but most authorities reserve this method of treatment for severe cases. It has not yet been decided which form of mercury is the best for this purpose. The soluble mercurials are preferable to the insoluble. Perchloride of mercury, about grain in 10 minims of distilled water, is effective, but causes great pain and causes induration of the muscle. Cyanide of mercury is almost painless, but is very poisonous and may cause albuminuria. Lactate of mercury is safe, painless, and rapidly eliminated. Dose—J gr. in 15 m. of water. " Grey oil " is a suspension of metallic mercury in lanolin and paraffin. The strength is usually 1 grain to 10 minims, which is a maximum dose for a week. The action is slow, the mercury probably being converted into the albuminate in the system. Salicylate of mercury, 10 per cent in liquid paraffin, is non-irritant and effec- tive. Dose—YQ-l gr. Calomel, 10 per cent in olive oil, is painful but very effective. Mercury may also occasionally be given as a suppository. Whatever method of administration be selected, when mercury has to be taken for a long period the proper dose for the individual patient must be ascertained as soon as possible. Salivation is to be avoided, and great care should be taken of the gums and teeth. A few of the non-official preparations of mercury require mention. Sal Alembroth is a double chloride of mercury and ammonium; it is a powerful antiseptic, and less irritat- ing than corrosive sublimate. Mercuro-Zinc Cyanide is a white powder with strong anti- septic properties, and non-irritating; dressings impregnated with it and stained mauve are much used in surgery. Mercury Protiodide (Hydrargyri lodidum Flavum, U.S.) is much milder than the biniodide, and is used for the same purposes. Dose—^\ gr. Salicylate of Mercury is useful in hypodermic medication. There are also numerous other preparations, proprietary and otherwise. Mercury Amalgam is much used for dental fillings. Merg^a.1. — Mercuric choleate, Hg (C24H3g05)2, a yellowish powder soluble in alkalies, recommended in cases of syphilis, in doses of 2 to 5 grains per diem. Merino.—A fabric for underclothing, con- sisting of a mixture of cotton and wool; it was, originally, the wool of the merino sheep. Meristifbrm. — Having the shape of the sarcina ventricula or wool-pack organism (Gr. /i€pts, a part). Merkel's Corpuscles. See Skin, Anatomy and Physiology [Anatomy, Nerves, Special Terminal Corpuscles), Mermaid Foetus.—The fojtus sympus; that form of monstrosity in which the lower limbs are rotated outwards and more or less fused together ; sympodia; sireniform foetus. See Teratology {Malformation of Limbs). Mero-.—In compound words mero- (Gr. liipo<;, a part) means partial; e.g. a meroblastic ovum is one which divides only in part, is only partly germinal. Meroa,Cra.nia..—The less marked degree of defect of the brain and crania vault, in con- trast with complete absence of these structures or holoacrania (q.v.). See Teratology. MerOCele.—Femoral hernia (Gr. [xrjpos, the thigh). Meromicrosomia.—Localised dwarf- ism ; an unnatural smallness of a part of the body. Mero - RhachiSChisiS. — Localised spina bifida (q.v.). Merotomy.—The experimental division of an ovum or amoeba in order to trace the origin of the various structures developing from it. See Embryology (General Princij^les). M6ry'S Glands. — Cowper's glands ; the bulbo-urethral glands. Merycism.—The act of rumination (Gr. I chew the cud), a condition occa- sionally met with in the human subject in certain forms of indigestion; the food is re- turned from the stomach into the mouth and remasticated. See Indigestion {Symptoms, Motor). Mesad or Mesiad. — Towards the middle. MesaortitiS. — Arteritis, sometimes syphilitic in origin, affecting the middle coat of the aorta, and predisposing to aneurysm. MesaraiC. — Mesenteric (Gr. fieadpaiov, the belly). See Mesenteric Glands. MesarteritiS. — Inflammation of the middle coat of an artery. MesaticephalUS.—Mesocephaly; the condition in which the head has a breadth index of 750 to 800. See Anthropology; Ethnology. MesatipelliC—The name given to a pelvis having a pelvic index intermediate between that of the European (platypellic) and that of the Australian aboriginal (dolichopellic); it is found in the negro. See Anthropology.