MORPHINOMANIA AND 444 ALLIED DRUG HABITS havoc among the class of men who, by carelessly prescribing the drug, and instructing in the use of the hypodermic syringe, have been mainly instrumental in disseminating it. Of Levin- stein's 110 cases, 47 occurred in persons belong- ing to the medical profession or dependent on it: thus, 32 physicians, 8 wives of physicians, 1 son of a physician, 4 nurses, 1 midwife, and 1 student of medicine were among his patients. M. Lacassagne states that of 545 morphino- maniacs within his knowledge, 289 were doctors, or over 50 per cent. He says it is well known that several of the most distinguished men of the profession in Germany who have died in recent years were devotees to the fatal drug.^ Dr. Jules Rocard says that females and doctors are most addicted. Women delight in declaring how they indulge in the vice, and show with pride their ornamental syringes. Men take the greatest pains to hide their vice, so it is difficult to estimate the precise numbers, but he believes that doctors and those associated with them form half the total male victims.^ Dr. M'Naughton Jones agrees that medical men form the largest number of cases. The first introduction to the seductions of the drug can generally be traced to its adminis- tration by a medical man for the relief of pain, melancholia, or insomnia. This is where our responsibility arises, and where we should con- sider well before we grant that first introduction. It is questionable whether for melancholia and insomnia it should ever be given, especially by the hypodermic method, except as a last resort. Some cases undoubtedly originate in other ways, but they are quite in the minority. A patient of Dr. Richardson told him that he took it first simply to see what it was like, and finding it pleasant continued it till he found he could not live without it. In another case related by Obersteiner, a physician could not believe in the ease and pleasure it gave to a patient suff"ering from cancer ; he took one dose himself as an experiment, but it immediately awakened in him such a craving that he was never afterwards able to give it up. William Blair, author of The Oiyimn Habitwhen reading De Quincey's Confessions, shvit the book after having read " the Pleasures," and without reading " the Pains," he began deliberately to cultivate the habit, and soon learned the pains for himself with many a bitter regret! These may illustrate cases originating from experiment or curiosity, and doubtless many so arise. Some few may arise from imitation, as instanced by Dr. Foot, where "one could give no better reason for it than that a friend who lived in the house with him had recourse to it, and that he ' followed suit.'" At least one case has 1 B. M. J., 1893, vol. ii. p. 142. 2 Cf. Union MMicalc, 1894. ^ Harper and Bros., 1865. arisen in a downright criminal manner, viz. : where a husband induced his wife to take it, in order that he might get a divorce in the French courts.^ It is fortunate that every constitution does not bear morphia well, that on some it does not produce that intellectual excitement and psychical pleasure which creates the inappeas- able hunger; that on others even small doses produce great depression, sickness of stomach, hallucinations, and horrible dreams. Also, that as with alcohol, the strength of each individual's self-control largely determines whether, having once tasted the sweets, he is able to firmly lay them aside again. But it is not a drug to be trifled with; it has helplessly bound great intellects as surely and as easily as it has en- slaved the most frivolous pleasure seeker. So while still vaunting in the strength of our own self-control, we will yet wisely decline to put it to the test. Some few striking instances are on record, as if to cheer the fallen, but not to encourage the foolhardy, where victims have conquered through their own unaided strength. Dr. Blairmentions the case of a man who used morphine for several years, and gave it up after sixty-five days' struggle; it was ten months, however, before he began to get a little sleep. De Quincey continued the use, or abuse, of opium for fifty-two years. Four times he broke himself off it, but only for a few months at a time, and then continued it again. Finally he gave it up for ever. In his own words : " I triumphed, but infer not, reader, from this word 'triumphed ' a condition of joy and exulta- tion ; think of me as one, even when four months had passed, still agitated, writhing, throbbing, palpitating, shattered." The quantity of morphia or opium daily taken by a habitue varies greatly, partly according to the length of time they have taken the drug, partly owing to individual susceptibility. Christison mentions that " 450 drops of the best laudanum have been taken by a gentleman, unused to opium, without any other effect than some headache and constipation; and, what is even more singular, his son, aged six years, took 60 minims of muriate of morphia without any apparent ill effect." Another case is mentioned of a young man, who, reading of the visions produced by opium, and "yearning for the large excitement," took 60 grains at a dose, yet lived to tell the tale.^ In certain diseases attended with pain enormous doses are tolerated. Dr. Walter Smith ^ mentions that in a case of chronic rheumatism 45 grains of morphia have been given, and in another case of metritis with rectal fistula 24 grains of the acetate of moi'phia were given in one day. He also quotes Fleming as mentioning a case in which 20 grains of 1 B. M. J., 1891. vol. i. p. 484. ^ ^ioc. cit. ^ N. American Itevietv, vol. xcv. * Commentary on the B. P.