MIDWIVES 412 Sex of infant Born living or dead Full time or premature—No. of months If Doctor sent for Name of Doctor Date of Midwife's last visit Condition of Mother then. (See Rule 11, above.) Condition of Child then Remarks ^ ' If any drugs, other than a simple aperient, have been administered, state here their nature and duse, the reason for giving them, and the stage of labour when given. Penal Clauses of the Act. — The local supervising authorities have power to in- vestigate charges of malpractice, negligence, or misconduct on the part of any midwife practis- ing within their area, and should a primct, facie case be established, to report the same to the C.M.B. ; they have also power to suspend any midwife from practice, if such siispension ap- pears necessary in order to prevent the spread of infection; and they shall report at once to the Board the name of any midwife practising in their area convicted of an offence. There are full rules of procedure on the removal of a name from the roll, and on the restoration to the roll of a name removed; but it is un- necessary to state them here. There are three penalties differing in severity, viz., censure, caution, and removal; and already cases have occurred under each serving to show that the Act is no dead letter. For instance, at a meeting of the C.M.B. on June 27, 1907, one midwife was censured for not having advised that medical assistance should be sent for in a case of ophthalmia neonatorum, and another one for not having advised that medical assistance should be sent for in a case of breech presenta- tion in a primipara. At the same meeting a midwife was cautioned as to the strict observance of the rules of the Board, and in particular as to those requiring her to notify to the local supervising authority in cases of still-birth, and when medical assistance has been sent for. Results.—The Midwives Act of 1902 must be regarded as, on the whole, a beneficial piece of legislation. There are in it, as has been pointed out, matters requiring fuller definition, and there are others, such as the provision for the payment of medical practitioners whose services are required, which need amendment; but the result of its working cannot fail to be the saving of both maternal and infantile life and the diminution of the frequency of puer- peral fever. Further, the reports of still-births and abortions by trained midwives may give statistical results of no small importance in view of the falling birth-rate and in the absence of a Still-Births Registration Act. The rules of the Central Midwives Board may be obtained from Messrs. Spottiswoode and Co., Ltd., 54 Gracechurch Street, London, E.C. Price, paper, 6d. ; post free, 7d. Mig^raine, or Meg^rim {see also Eye, Clinical Examination of, Symptoms, Phos- phines; Gout, Irregular, Headache ; Headache, Migraine; Hypnotism, Uses; Indigestion, Hemicrania; Liver, Diseases op. Functional; Megrim ; Ocular Muscles, Affections of. Paralysis, Etiology; Puberty, Disturbances of Health, Migraine; Spasm, Ophthalmoplegic; Uraemia, Symptoms), is a paroxysmal form of headache allied to epilepsy and other nervous diseases (vol. iv. p. 61). In its most character- istic form it is unmistakable and readily recog- nised, but in its less developed forms it may be more difficult to differentiate from other forms of headache {q.v.) and neuralgia (q.v.). Alike in its minor and major forms it bears a close relationship to gout (q.v.), a disease in which the uric-acidsemia, so called, is only a symptom and not the cardinal factor that is often supposed. Gowers describes a type of case in which visual disturbance, like that preceding attacks of megrim, occurs frequently during many years as an isolated symptom. The writer has met at least one similar case in a young woman with a pronounced gouty family history, she herself having occasionally suffered from acute gout in its slighter degrees. In this case a cholagogue plus a saline cathartic gives early relief. There is no doubt that the megrim is a toxsemia, and a present desideratum in our knowledge is the state of the blood before, during, and after the paroxysms. Such an investigation would prob- ably throw not a little light on some points in the etiology of the disease. The diagnosis and treatment of the condition is fully considered in another section (see " Headache "). It is perhaps here advisable merely to draw particular attention to the important part probably played by the digestive tract and the liver in the development of this condition. If from any cause the power of the intestine to resist in- vasion by toxines formed by bacteria in the alimentary canal, but not under normal circum- stances absorbed, be lowered, an absorption of these toxic substances may occur, and this absorption may initiate a disturbance in that part of the patient's system that has naturally a low resisting power. A somewhat similar action may induce a state of hepatic inadequacy, which in turn will lead to an aggravation of the symptoms. Hence treatment directed primarily to the bowels and liver is of primary importance, and is more likely to be attended with success than treatment directed specially to nerve tonics and the like. Migrainin. — A preparation containing antipyrin (85 parts), citric acid (6 parts), and caffein (9 parts), used in the treatment of