MEDICINE, HISTORY OF 276 festations and the material merely the veil. There was a complete correspondence between the constituent parts of the universe and of the human body, or, as he called them, the macro- cosm and microcosm, the souls of the former and those which, imder the name of archei, presided over the function of each organ : while the causes of disease were purely spiritual, the material structure having no part in the disease or its cure. A knowledge of astronomy he held to be of far more practical value to the physician than an acquaintance with anatomy, wliich he discai'ded as useless ; but he paid much attention to chemistry, on account of the supposed sym- pathy between the souls of chemical elements and the archei of the organs of man, through which, and not by any gross material action on the tissues, drugs—whether vegetable or mineral —assisted the efforts of the archei in the cure of disease, though the result would be greatly facilitated by securing in some way the co- operation of the corresponding planets. Tlie three most important harmonies were those of salt, the body, and the earth; of mercury, the soul, and water; and of sulphur, spirit, and air. The properties of drugs resided in their "arcana" or immaterial essences, which were often indi- cated by their physical characters or external forms : leaves, roots, etc., bearing a resemblance to the organs, the diseases of which they could control. Many names of plants, both botanical and vernacular, as hepatica, liverwort, orchis, etc., are but echoes of this " doctrine of signatures" and not derived, like those of lungwort and scurvy grass, from real or im- aginary observation of their actions ; while those of mercury and the expressions jovial, saturnine, etc., refer to the supposed affinity between the planets, metals, and human life. All that medicine really owes to Paracelsus was the in- troduction into a pharmacopoeia, previously ex- clusively herbal, of a number of metals and salts —whence the followers of Paracelsus were often designated latro-chemici or the chemical physi- cians. This innovation was not eftected without much opposition, especially to the use of anti- mony, but it led to a reaction in which gold became a favourite remedy, and even the precious stones were credited with mystic virtues pro- portioned to their rarity and cost. Paracelsus cannot, however, be said in any sense to have founded a school, though his mystic philosophy was for some time promulgated by the sect or society of Rosicrucians. The only medical name calling for mention in this connection is that of van Helmont, who merely amplified the fancies of Paracelsus, and being, like Celsus, an amateur, had even less influence in his time, besides being an anachronism in the seventeenth century. From whatever standpoint we contemplate the progress of civilisation and the growth of the human mind, the sixteenth century marks an epoch second only to the Christian era in the far-reaching effects of the awakening that then took place. It inaugurated a period of political development, commercial and maritime enterprise, classical learning, and the creation of a modern literature in the living language of each nation. It was not, however, until the seventeenth century that the influence of the revival was felt in the fields of science and medicine, and even then the effects on practice were less than might have been expected. Philosophers continued to evolve metaphysical and ontological systems from their inner con- sciousness, but when men awoke to the convic- tion that such methods were utterly incompetent to discover the causes of things in the material world, the entire aspect of natural science was changed. In a couple of generations mediaeval darkness was dispelled and men passed from the night of fantastic speculations to the broad day- light of scientific research. The mathematicians, astronomers, and physicists prepared the ways and chemists and biologist^ followed, slowly at first, but later by rapid strides. Bacon, though not himself a student of natural science, and wholly imconcerned with medicine, did more than any one in bringing about this revolution by maintaining that no real progress could be made in the search after truth but by the in- ductive method, the careful observation and collection of facts unbiassed by tradition or authority, and by reasoning from these to general principles instead of, as hitherto, in- venting a system and forcing facts into harmony therewith. His work was at once destructive and constructive, for, making a tabula rasa of existing systems, he taught men how to proceed in the search after truth. Like all reformers, he indeed carried this doctrine somewhat too far, overstating the case for the a posteriori or inductive method and unduly depreciating the a j)riori or deductive. Imagination, not un- bridled as it had been, but exercised under due restraint, has its place in scientific research ; no great discovery has been made, no new field of science opened without the exercise of the imagination in the construction of working hypotheses, but these hypotheses must have been suggested as the obvious, or at least the highly probable explanations of observed pheno- mena, and must then be estimated at their proper value as means to an end, must be put to the test of rigid induction and modified or rejected according as they fail to stand the test. But the time had not come for such methods, which are dangerous in the hands of men un- trained to the habit of verifying every hypothesis by experiment regardless of preconceived notions and rejecting everything that failed to stand the test. Bacon's Novum Organum and In- stauratio Magna or The Advancement of Learn- ing completely transformed the aspect of natural science, and the value of the method of patient experiment received the strongest possible con-