354 MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS the uterus, the surgeon should divide the septum and throw the two cavities into one. In all cases where an artificial opening is made, either in the vagina or cervix, there is a tendency for it to reclose by slow cicatricial contraction. This tendency must be counteracted by the wearing for months or years of a flanged vul- canite or rubber tube. The great danger of all operations for retained menses is septic infection, which can only be prevented by the most scrupulous antiseptic precautions. Prognosis.—The gravity of the case depends on the situation of the atresia, and the extent to which the upper portions of the genital canal have become involved. Thus atresia of the cervix is more serious than hymeneal atresia, and hfematosalpinx and htematometra are graver lesions than hsematocolpos. Obviously, too, if suppurative changes have occurred the prognosis is still more grave. It follows, therefore, that there should be no delay in operating, and every endeavour must be made by rigid aseptic pre- cautions to prevent infection. Menstruum. — A solvent; the fluid which is used in percolation as the solvent which, during its descent through the drug, extracts the soluble constituents ; a fluid excipient. Mensuration.—The process of taking measurements in order to determine deformities, the rate of growth of tumours, etc. See Ab- domen, Clinical Investigation of {Mensura- tion) ; Gynecology, Diagnosis in ; etc. Mentagfra. See Sycosis. Mentag^rophyton. — The fungus {microsporon mentayrophytes) which is the sup- posed cause of sycosis. Mental Deficiency. Definition ...... 354 Classification 354 Congenital ...... 354 Microcephalic . . . . .354 Porencephalic ..... 355 Hydrocephalic . . . . .355 Mongoloid . . . . .355 Cretinoid ..... 355 Primarily/ neurotic . . . .356 Developmental— Amaurotic ..... 356 Eclamp sic . . . . . '357 Epileptic...... 357 Syphilitic (^inherited) — {^'■Juvenile General Paralysis") . ■ . 357 Accidental (Acquired) .... 357 Tra^imatic ..... 357 Post-febrile 357 Sclerotic ...... 358 Anatomo-Pathology - - Congenital Cases .... 358 Anatomo-Pathology (contd.)— Development Cases .... 359 Accidental (or Acquired) Groiip . . 359 Microscopic Changes . . .359 Diagnosis and Prognosis . . . 360 Treatment and Training . . .361 See also Cretinism ; Deafmutism ; Idiocy ; Imbecility ; Insanity (Etiological Varieties); Mind, Education of ; Physiognomy. Definition.—Under this comprehensive term we propose to include the varying grades of defect of mental development, as distinguished from mental breakdown, designated (in order of their severity) feeble-mindedness, imbecility, and idiocy. The defect, though not of necessity congenital, always depends upon causes acting early in life prior to the complete evolution of the faculties, and in this way is differentiated from insanity. In many cases, indeed, there exists an innate predisposition to mental abnormality, due to inherited nervous instability, though actual defect may not show itself till some critical epoch of development (e.g. the period of dentition or of puberty). Where predisposition exists, moreover, injury may act in an altogether disproportionate degree in producing mental defect to that which would obtain in a child of normal heredity, so that a fall which would leave unscathed the mental condition of the latter may, in the former case, lead to impaired mental development. Classification.—According to the period at which mental deficiency manifests itself we may classify all cases into three main groups, viz. :— I. Congenital. II. Developmental. III. Accidental (or Acquired). I. Congenital cases may be subdivided into several distinct types, each with characteristic physical features, mental peculiarities, and (as we shall see more fully when considering the etiology of the subject) causative factors. The leading types may be stated as follows :— (a) Microcephalic cases. (b) Porencephalic cases. (c) Hydrocephalic cases. (d) Mongoloid cases. (e) Cretinoid cases. (/) Primarily neurotic cases. (Other cases such as those connected with birth palsies or the early manifestations of syphilis (inherited) or of scrofula, might almost be called congenital, but in this article we shall consider the former as an accidental form and the latter as developmental.) (a) Microcephalic cases are, of course, dis- tinguished by smallness of head, and it has been proposed by some authors to limit the term microcephalus to heads the circumference of which does not exceed seventeen inches. The abnormality is, however, not exclusively one of size, as thus ascertained: it is rather one of