MOUNTAIN SICKNESS 455 higher levels the symptoms are intensified, the more prominent being giddiness, nausea, loss of strength in the limbs, and the escape of blood from the superficial capillaries, e.g. the nose. The last mentioned is indicative of the general engorgement of the venous system that is present in the later stages. Sensations of feverishness have also been described, but no observations with a clinical thermometer have been made to prove this point. Conway made accurate thermometrical observations, and says, " Bruce's temperature and mine were both nor- mal, notwithstanding that we felt plainly discom- fort from the reduced atmospheric pressure." Haemorrhage, such as epistaxis, gum-bleeding, and bloodshot eyes, occurs from rapid diminu- tion of atmospheric pressure, but does not seem to be present in mountaineers under ordinary circumstances. Nausea and vomiting are popularly supposed to form part of the group, but are probably due to other causes, such as fatigue or disordered digestion from unsuitable food. Mountain sickness is felt more in sun than under cloud, and more in a trough where the air feels stagnant than in a wind. The causation of these symptoms has been put down to diminished barometrical pressure, heart failure, indigestion, deprivation of oxygen, fatigue. These factors all seem to act more or less, but the immediate and sufficient cause is deprivation of oxygen. This brings about an involuntary increased frequency of respiration, and to compensate this, the respiration becomes more shallow. As a result the lungs become more contracted, and accommodate less blood, and venous stasis with deficient oxidation ensues. Alterations in tissue metabolism occur, leading to increased haemolysis in the liver, and an altered distribution of the corpuscular elements in the blood. Mou ntai neer's Nystag^m us. See Neuroses, Occupation {Etiology). Mouse. See Jensen's Tumour. Mouth—Diseases and Injuries of ttie Mouth and Jaws.—It is con- venient to describe these in the following sections —the first dealing with the diseases of the lips, cheeks, gums, and floor of mouth, the second treating of injuries and diseases of the jaws. The important subject of oral sepsis will be discussed in the section on teeth. Index op Part I. Diseases of the Lips .... 456 ,, ,, Cheeks . . . 457 „ „ Gums .... 457 „ ,, Floor of Mouth . 458 Index of Part II. Fracture op Upper Jaw . . . 460 Fracture of Lower Jaw . . .461 Treatment . . . . .462 Non-united Fracture .... 463 Inflammatory Diseases and Results— Periostitis, Abscess, and Necrosis . 463 A. Diffuse Periostitis, Phosphorus Poisoning, etc. . . . 464 B. Localised Periostitis . . .465 Dislocation op Lower Jaw . . . 466 Dislocation of Inter-Articular Carti- lage 467 Parasitic Diseases op the Jaw . . 467 Tuberculous Diseases of the Jaw . 468 Syphilitic Affections .... 468 Tumours— Odontomata . . . . .468 Other Simple Tumours . . . 469 Malignant Tumours. . . .469 Operations on the Jaws . . .470 See also Actinomycosis {Distribution of Lesions) ; Brain, Physiology op {Functions of Cerebral Cortex, Motor Centres for Spieech); Bronchi, Bronchitis {Etiology, Mouth Breath- ing) ; Bronchi, Bronchitis in Children {Etiology, Buccal Respiration); Children, Clinical Examination of {Mouth and Throat); Foot and Mouth Disease ; Nursery Hygiene {Care of Mouth and Teeth); Palate {Congenital Malfo7-mations of Mouth); Pharynx ; Physiog- nomy {Mouth); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Alimentary Canal, Mouth); Salivary Glands, Disorders op; ^ywe {Clinical Features, Mouth); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases op {Digestion, General Etiology); Teeth {Oral Sepsis); Tongue, Tonsils, Diseases of. Diseases of the Mouth In this cavity the organs diff"er so in character and function that it is impossible to give a connected account of its surgical diseases, e.g. the treatment of the teeth requires such special methods that a distinct class of practitioner devote themselves exclusively to this subject, and the reader is referred to the article on " Teeth" for information concerning these organs. The tongue is the seat of numerous patho- logical conditions, both medical and surgical in their bearings, and consequently a special article is necessary for dealing with so extensive a subject. In the case of the palate, both hard and soft, the pathological conditions are not numerous or of very common occurrence ; but a special interest is attached to its congenital malforma- tions, and therefore it is very convenient to deal with the whole subject of palate under a separate article. In addition to these organs certain important glands discharge their contents directly into the mouth, and of these the most important are the salivary glands. These organs are liable to diseases both in the glandular substance and in their ducts, and the whole subject is