429 MIND, EDUCATION OF THE hood no less than 3522, or 3'5 per cent of the 100,000 children seen were noted to be of low nutrition. These nervous children often become irritable and passionate, and suiT'er from head- ache. If they are not properly tavight, or if they have to undergo too much study, they easily become fatigued, exhausted, and suffer from irritability. If they stand upright with their hands stretched out on a level with the shoulder, the palms downwards and the fingers stretched out, they exhibit what Dr. Warner calls "the nervous hand"—that is, the wrist is slightly flexed, the knuckles are moderately extended back beyond the straight line, the finger-joints being slightly bent. The thumb is extended backwards and sometimes drawn away from the fingers. In addition to this, the fingers slightly twitch, and there is lordosis. It is essential that the signs of fatigue should be known, because if they are not recognised and attended to, fatigue passes on into exhaus- tion. Fatigue is accompanied by loss of force, both mental and physical, and action is less easily excited through the senses. Irregular movements may occur; the fingers may twitch when the boy holds the pen, and he is not only inclined to fidget, but is irritable and peevish. Loss of force is shown by fulness under the eyes and sometimes corrugation of the eyebrows. If the hands are held out in front of the body, as mentioned above, the thumb will be noticed to be drooped. A fatigued child is slow in his movements and in his mental action. The cure for fatigue is change of occupation. If the above signs are not noticed or attended to, fatigue passes on into exhaustion. In this con- dition the facial muscles are wanting in tone ; there is not only fulness under the eyes, but a lengthening of the face owing to the muscles becoming relaxed. The ordinary stimuli do not bring forth the ordinary expressions, and sighing and yawning commonly occur. The tone of the voice is different from the normal, and speech is slow in character. Instead of co- ordination on the mental and motor functions, there is incoordination and disorderly brain action, and if work is still persisted in chorea or epilepsy will be the result. When exhaustion occurs work must be interrupted, and abund- ance of fresh air, sunlight, and rest from work must be prescribed. Occasionally there is a breakdown at the time of the second dentition. When this happens there must be relief from study, substitution of amusement for books, exercise in the open air, and removal from town to country. Hysterical children, especially girls, must never be overworked. In many cases there is a hereditary predisposition to this affection, and then the power of the will being weakened, the emotions are unduly strengthened, and irrita- bility of the nervous system is the result. In fact, those children who are predisposed to this affection are frequently peevish and irritable (see " Hysteria in Children "); but convulsive attacks do not appear until puberty occurs. In many of these cases the special senses are unnaturally acute, while in others, especially after severe seizures, the senses of smell, taste, and sound are lost, and the field of vision is restricted. In the first class of cases sensorial training should be in abeyance; but in the second class every means of arousing these senses, such as have been previously described, should be exercised. Children of this kind should be trained to be unselfish ; but as this cannot be done at home as the mother is herself often irritable and capricious, at one time harsh, at another indulgent, while the father has no time to look after his children, removal from home is necessary, and the child should be placed under the care of a governess or nurse who is known to be fii'm and jvidicious. Self- control is difficult to teach, and can only be accomplished by the exercise of this faculty by the instructor. The education of the child must not be interrupted, but should be well directed, and amusement should be practised in moderation. If children of this class are over- worked, chorea will be the result. We have had many girls suffering from chorea under our care who at the same time were hysterical. Epileptic children, if of normal intellect and the epileptic attacks are not severe, should be ediicated in ordinary schools; but care must be taken not to overwork them. The signs of an approaching fit are irritability, twitching of the muscles, mental dulness, and a complaint of headache ; if these are noticed the lessons should be reduced. The slight form of epilepsy {petit mal) may cause the child to be inattentive to his lessons, so that when there is a likelihood that he suffers from this complaint punishment must on no account be inflicted. Children suffering from severe epilepsy, and who retain their normal intellect, require to be educated in epileptic homes in the country. Dr. Alexander, who has had considerable experience in their treatment, says " that at home the usual parental discipline that moulds the civilised child is wanting or fitful in its exercise, and the epileptic tends to become a yoimg savage, with all the delights of a savage in cruelty and oppression." The Elementary Education (De- fective and Epileptic Children) Act, 1899, allows school authorities to establish schools, certified by the Education Department, for epileptic children, and to contribute towards the main- tenance of certified schools; but the schools should be in the country. The schools have to provide for the board, lodging, and medical treatment of the children as well as their education. Two homes for epileptic children, one for boys and one for girls, have been built at the Chalfont Colony for epileptics, but the Act above mentioned has an imwise provision.