NEPHRITIS 535 ment. Even when this last condition is met with, the cortex may be very much diminished, as seen on section. Generally the surface of the kidney is roughened and granular, and of a deep reddish-brown colour. Sometimes the roughened granular surface is covered with little yellow spots, and frequently small cysts may be found near the surface of the kidney. Though the cysts are, as a rule, extremely minute, they may be from a quarter to half an inch in diameter. Occasionally small white nodules may be found similarly dotted about near the surface. The kidney as a whole is firm and resistant, being at times rather difficult to cut, owing to the increased amount of fibrous tissue. Frequently the degree of contraction of the kidney is somewhat masked by the dilata- tion of the pelvis, which is filled or even dis- tended with an excessive amount of adipose tissue. On section the diminution in the size is seen to be mainly due to the diminution in the thick- ness of the cortex, the proportion of cortex to medulla bearing the relation of a fifth to a sixth, instead of from a third to a fourth, as in the healthy kidney. The cysts and white nodules above mentioned are more evident in the cut surface, and, in addition, cicatricial tissue may often be observed spreading inwards from the cortex. The Malpighian bodies are sometimes reduced in size as well as in number, and microscopically they are found to be irregular in shape, and situated nearer to the trunk of the artery than usual. They are frequently found immediately below the capsule of the kidney, instead of being separated from it by a short interval. The pyramidal portions of the kidney are generally of a dark colour, and white lines sometimes occupy the position of the straight tubes of the medulla, and indicate the presence of crystalline deposits of urates. Microscopic examination brings out the changes of the kidney in a more marked manner, since triangular wedges of fibrous tissue, apparently devoid of true gland struc- ture, are rendered more evident in stained specimens. The development of fibrous tissue is extremely irregular; portions of gland struc- ture, apparently in a healthy condition, may intervene; sometimes in the triangular patches numerous nuclei are seen ; at other times the nuclei are more rare, and the tissue appears more distinctly fibrillated and organised. Com- pressed and atrophic tubules are occasionally found scattered amongst the new tissue, and if these contain epithelium the cells usually are in a state of fatty degeneration. The connective tissue round the convoluted tubes is very often increased in amount, and the capsules are greatly thickened by proliferation, which tends to en- croach upon the space normally occupied by the glomerular tuft, and may ultimately lead to obliteration of the glomerulus. These atrophic changes in connection with the Malpighian tufts are often regarded as the earliest features of cirrhosis of the kidney, while the atrophy of the tubules and the development of the inter- stitial changes are regarded as secondary results. The tubes appear, in some cases, to be de- nuded of their epithelium; in others to be some- what distended. Occasionally in the atrophic tissue they may be plugged with colloid material, and distinct casts of considerable diameter may be found. The white nodules mentioned above are seen on microscopic exa- mination to consist of small accumulations of epithelial cells. In the straight tubes of the pyramids the epithelium, as a rule, is normal, but they are sometimes filled with crystals of urate of sodium. The blood-vessels of the kidney are often markedly altered ; considerable discussion has arisen as to whether these changes affecting the smallest arteries are secondary to the alterations in the kidney above described, or whether they are primary changes which precede the altera- tions in the gland structure. The main change in the small arteries is an increase in the thickness of the walls together with diminution in their calibre. This may be due to an overgrowth of the intima, occurring without material proliferation of nuclei, and may almost entirely occlude the blood-vessel. This alteration corresponds closely with the endarteritis obliterans described by Cornil and Ranvier. Another change in the small arteries consists in the hyaline fibroid degeneration, which was originally described as arterio-capillary fibrosis. Muscular hypertrophy undoubtedly occurs at a very early stage of renal cirrhosis, and according to Dr. Dickinson, it is to be ascribed to some assumed change in the structure of the capil- laries, rather than to cardiac hypertrophy, as originally believed by Sir George Johnson. It is certain that increase in the thickness of the wall of the left ventricle is invariably associated with renal contraction. Sometimes this hyper- trophy occurs with some dilatation of the cavity, but in the early stages it is far more frequent for the dilatation to be comparatively slight, although the hypertrophy may be sufficient to cause alteration in the position of the apex beat. As the disease advances, and especially towards the termination, dilatation of the heart becomes more frequent; hence, to a certain extent, the position of the apex beat and the area of cardiac dulness may be taken as indications of the stage of the disease. Etiology Amte Nephritis. — Acute nephritis occurs mostly in young adults, and it is more frequent amongst males, probably owing to exposure. It is also more common amongst the middle and labouring classes, on account of their occupation, clothing, and habits.