464 DISEASES OF THE JAW MOUTH—INJURIES AND periosteum of all the teeth is affected simultane- ously, whereas in other cases the periosteum of only one or two teeth may be affected; hence we may divide the cases into two classes, the diffused and the localised. A. Diffused Inflammation of the Alveolar Periosteum.—Etiology and Pathology.—(1) One of the most common causes of this diffused periostitis was at one time very often met with in persons exposed to the fumes of phosphorus, the disease being popularly called " phossy jaw." From time to time outbreaks of this disease occur in some of the match manufactories. As this is perhaps the most typical kind of diffused periostitis of the jaw, it would be taken as a type in discussing the various aspects of the disease. A condition very similar to this may be brought about by the administration of mercury in doses large enough to produce a salivation, and other metallic poisons have produced similar efiects. (2) Chronic suppuration may occur at the necks of the teeth, leading to progressive necrosis of the alveolar margin. In this way the fang of the tooth is exposed, and finally the tooth falls out. This condition is termed "pyorrhoea alveolaris" or " Riggs' disease." For a full description of this condition the reader is referred to the article on "Teeth." (3) As we have mentioned above, we some- times see a diffused periostitis, generally of the lower jaw, often leading to extensive necrosis in children of weak vitality. This used to be called strumous periostitis. It is undoubtedly of septic origin. (4) The severe suppurative inflammation that is frequently associated with the eruption of an overcrowded or misplaced wisdom tooth is probably due to some pathogenic organism reaching the site of the tooth. Unless treated early, the inflammation may spread widely and lead to extensive necrosis of the bone. As a typical example of diffused suppurative peri- ostitis of the lower jaw, we will consider the subject of so-called phosphorus necrosis or phossy jaiv. The term necrosis is used because extensive death of the bone is a leading feature. It must be understood, however, that this is only a result of a diffused suppurative inflammation. Etiology and Pathology of "Phossy Jaw."— According to Stockman, in addition to the various stages of caries of the tooth, the con- dition of the alveolar margin is one of cario- necrosis, with chronic ostitis and periostitis, differing in no respect from the same lesion as seen in other bones from various causes. It has long been held that this cario-necrosis is due to aseptic action of phosphorus fumes on the bone, this being supposed to cause a peculiar and special kind of inflammation. If one con- siders, however, the whole circumstances and the clinical histories of individual cases, we must definitely conclude that the process is due to the activity of micro-organisms. Phosphorus fumes consist of phosphorus anhydride to a large extent, with some phosphoric anhydride together with some hydrogen peroxide in small traces. It is practically impossible for any of these bodies to produce the extensive mischief so characteristic of phossy jaw. Stockman, from cultivations of pus from several cases, found staphylococcus, albus, streptococcus, and numerous other organisms. He is of opinion that none of these could reasonably be regarded as the cause of cario-necrosis, and inasmuch as he found tubercle bacilli in every case he considers this as amounting to alnjost proof positive that the disease is of tuberctilous origin. He considered that the acid^^mes penetrated to the bone directly through the aperture left by a decayed or extracted tooth, that they erode the bone, weaken its nutrition and resist- ing power, and so make it a suitable nidus for the growth of tubercle bacilli. The bacilli having once started growing, gradually spread according to the ordinary rules of tuber- culous infection. The majority of observers, however, consider that the trouble is due to pyogenic organisms, and that the tubercle bacilli are only there by accident, being taken in with the food. In the very excellent report to the Secretary of State for the Home Department drawn up by Dr. George Cunningham, the opinions of Dr. Stewart upon the subject of phosphorus poisoning are mentioned, and the correctness of his views is confirmed by Cunningham's experience. Although Stewart admits the fact that a caries of the tooth is the commonest point of origin of phosphorus necrosis, yet he points out that the disease may commence in cases where there are no decayed teeth, but in which there are masses of tartar around the tooth at the junction with the gums. As the tartar swarms with organisms it is obvious that the subjacent disintegrating gum may become the point of entrance of the pyogenic germs. Symptoms.—The earliest symptom is an un- easy sensation in the teeth, which gradually becomes worse until pressure upon them elicits marked pain, sometimes of an excruciating char- acter. This pain is often worse at night, as many other pains are liable to be. The inflam- matory trouble develops, and the gums, swollen and oedematous, and the adjacent tissue of the cheek become involved, so that there may be swelling of the face with more or less redness of the skin. On examining the teeth it is found that these are somewhat raised in their sockets and more or less loose. On examining this stage of the trouble there is very marked salivation, and owing to the pain preventing the patient moving the muscles of the tongue and mouth effectively, there may be dribbling of saliva. By very careful and thorough treat-