MESONEPHROS 368 See Broad Ligaments, Diseases of; Embryology; Ovaries, Diseases of {Tumours). MeSOneuritiS. — Inflammation of the substance of a nerve (parts between nerve and sheath), or of the lymphatics of a nerve. MeSOphiliC. — Preferring a moderate temperature {i.e. that of the body), used in relation to some forms of bacteria. MesophlebitiS.—Inflammation of the middle coat of a vein. See Veins, Diseases of {Phlebitis). MeSOropter.—The normal relation of the eyes to each other when the muscles are in a relative state of rest. MeSOrrhine.—An individual or a skull the nasal index of which is from 48 to 53, i.e. intermediate between the leptorrhine and the platyrrhine type. Mesosalpinx.—The peritoneal fold of the broad ligament containing the Fallopian tube and the parovarivxm. See Broad Ligaments. MeSOSCapula. — The spine of the scapula. MeSOSCelOS.—The perineum (Gr. /xeVos, middle, cr/<eAo5, the leg). MeSOSternum. — The middle portion of the sternum, the part lying between the manubrium (pnesternum) and the ensiform cartilage (xiphisternum). MeSOtan. — A salicylic acid preparation (methoxyl-methylester of salicylic acid) recom- mended in cases of rheumatism as an external application (mixed with olive oil); it has also been used in erysipelas. It may cause erythema. MeSOthelium.—The epithelial tissues derived from the mesoderm, as distinguished from mesenchyme {q.v.). Mela-. — In compound words meta- has the meaning of beyond or after or subsequent to—e.g. meta-arthritic (following upon gout), metasplenomegalic (following upon enlargement of the spleen). IVIetabolism.—The chemical and vital processes by which food material is built up into the living tissues of the body {anabolism) or by which the tissues or protoplasm of the body is broken down into simpler compounds [hatabolism). See Alcohol {Physiology); F(ETUS AND Ovum, Development op {Nutrition) ; Lym- phatic System {Functions of Lymph); Preg- nancy, Physiology {General Changes). Metacarpus.—The portion of the hand which intervenes between the phalanges and the bones of the wrist (carpus). See Fractures {Metacarpal Bones); Wrist-Joint, Diseases {Tubercular Osteomyelitis). MetacreSOl. — A coal-tar derivative, C-HjjOg, having an antiseptic and disinfectant action, and recommended internally in doses of 1 to 3 minims. It may be combined with bismuth or with cinnamic acid. Metacyesis.—Secondary ectopic gesta- tion, e.g. the pregnancy begins in the Fallopian tube and is continued in the abdominal cavity. Metakalin.—A cresol soap containing about 73 per cent of metacresol, recommended, as a 1 to 2 per cent solution, for disinfection of hands and instruments. Metallic Cachexia. See Cachexia {Metallic). Metallic Echo. See Lung, Tubercu- losis OF {Physical Signs of Vomica Formation^. Metallic Tinkling^. See Pleura, Diseases of {Pneumothorax., Auscultation). Metallophagfia.—A form of insanity characterised by the desire to eat fragments of metal. Metal lOSCOpy.—The effects produced by the application of metals to the skin in cases of hysteria ; " the phenomena observed in cases of hysterical anaesthesia after the application of a metallic plate or plates to the skin of the affected part which recovers its sensibility, while the corresponding point of the other and un- affected limb loses its sensibility" {Sydenham Soc. Lexicon). MetallOtherapy.—The treatment of nervous (hysterical) maladies by the application of metallic plates to the skin. See Hysteria. Metamerism.—In zoology, metamerism is the condition of being composed of segments or metameres, whilst in chemistry it is the " condition of these isomeric compounds, which, although they have the same composition and molecular weight, have different chemical properties." Metamorphopsia.—A distortion of the objects seen by the eye as in irregular astigmatism and in exudation in the retina and choroid. See Eye, Clinical Examination of {Leading Symptomatology); Choroid, Diseases of {Plastic Choroiditis). M etam O r p h OS i S.—A structural change or degeneration, e.g. fatty metamorphosis in which albuminous substances are changed into fat, caseous metamorphosis, retrograde meta- morphosis, etc. MetanephrOS.—The embryonic struc-