MYASTHENIA GRAVIS 496 Because of the palate weakness already referred to, nasal regurgitation is apt to occur when the patient drinks. Inability to support the head, a common symptom, is accounted for by paresis of the neck muscles. The muscles of the extremities nearest the trunk are usually most affected. The paresis is not always equal on opposite sides of the body. Patients often complain of weakness in the arms, especially at night when undressing, or when brushing the hair. Weakness in the legs necessitates frequent rests when walking. If he tries to hurry, the patient speedily becomes breathless. Apart from the dyspnoea which results on exertion, attacks of breathlessness and cyanosis are apt to occur without apparent cause, and may prove fatal. Strtimpell attri- butes these attacks to falling back of the tongue. Palpitation is not uncommon; in the cases which have come under my notice in which the symptom was complained of, it was always associated with dyspnoea or flatulence. The above description of the symptomatology of myasthenia gravis refers more particularly to those cases of the disease in which the symp- toms are pronounced. In slight cases, the patient, during the earlier part of the day, both feels and looks in his usual health, and the symptoms only appear towards evening. This increase of the myasthenic state as the day ad- vances forms one of the most striking features of the clinical picture. In very severe cases the patient may be bedridden, unable to walk more than a few steps, and unable to sit up for more than a few minutes at a time; in some cases the weakness is so great that he can only turn in bed with difficulty. Various conditions intensify or aggravate the symptoms of the disease, and of these, emo- tional excitement is one of the most important. Females are usually worse at the menstrual periods. Cold also increases the readiness with which the fatigue symptoms appear. But quite apart from any known or obvious cause, great variations in the intensity of the myasthenic state are apt to occur. So far no mention has been made of the way in which the myasthenic muscles respond to electricity. Just as varying degrees of motor weakness are met with, so, corresponding varia- tions in the faradic excitability of the muscles occur. It is, however, the rapidity with which the muscular contractions diminish in response to faradic stimulation which is especially char- acteristic of this disease ; the term myasthenic reaction has been given by Jolly to this condi- tion. When a tetanising current is applied to an affected muscle, at first an active contraction is obtained, but in the course of a short time the muscle ceases to respond. If the electrode is removed from the muscle and reapplied after a short interval, a good contraction is again ob- tained. The myasthenic reaction is not con- stantly present; at one time a muscle can be exhausted in half a minute, at another time it may be impossible to exhaust it. The myas- thenic reaction, although not absolutely patho- gnomic of the malady, is a diagnostic sign of great value. The muscles react normally to galvanism. Little or no diiference is produced in the mus- cular contraction as the result of constant and repeated! stimulation by the galvanic current. After the faradic excitability of the muscle has been exhausted, a good contraction may still be obtained by galvanism. An analysis of the few reported cases of myasthenia gravis in which muscular atrophy was present, raises doubts as to whether true muscular atrophy ever occurs as a symptom of this disease. In some of these cases the dia- gnosis is doubtful quite apart from the presence of muscular atrophy. Indeed, with the excep- tion of a case reported by Laquer, in which extensive muscular atrophy followed upon the symptoms of myasthenia gravis, there does not appear to be a single undoubted case on record in which there was any marked degree of atrophy. It is quite possible that in this very exceptional case, the muscular atrophy was a complication due to some additional etiological factor, while it seems probable that the slight degree of atrophy met with in other cases may have been the result of muscular disuse. In none of the ten cases which one has personally examined was atrophy present. The deep reflexes are usually rather brisk. In three cases the activity of the knee-jerk was seem to dimininish after repeated tapping of the patella tendon. There is nothing abnormal as regards the skin reflexes. The plantar reflex is of the flexor type. Although a feeling of fatigue and aching in the muscles is sometimes complained of, objec- tive disturbances of sensation are not met with in myasthenia gravis. The mental state is un- impaired. The special senses are unaffected. There is no derangement of the bladder or rectum. Pathological Anatomy.—Nineteen cases have been examined post-mortem; in the majority of these cases no pathological lesion was found in the nervous system or other organs of the body. In several cases, small haemorrhages have been described around the vessels in the medulla and central grey matter. That these hajmorrhages were not responsible for the symp- toms, but due rather to the asphyxia which was the cause of death, seems probable for the following reasons :— Firstly: Although haemorrhages were noticed in the neighbourhood of the nerve nuclei, the nuclei themselves were not involved to any great extent. Secondly: The distribution of the haemor-