MICRO-ORGANISMS 388 Protozoa ..... ooo Hyphomyceths or Moulds Q C Q ooo Blastomycetes or Yeasts Q QQ Strbptothrices .... Bacteria ..... oyu General Characters of Bacteria QQA Distribution .... QOA oyu Composition .... Classification .... . 392 Nutrition and Assimilation . 393 Types— Sap7-ophytic .... . 394 Pathogenic .... . 396 ■{See also various Special Diseases and the articles on Am, Examination of ; Enzymes ; Immunity ; Post-mortem Methods ; SUPPURA- TiON : etc.) The term micro-organisms, though unscientific, has been used very generally, especially by medical men, to include the lowest forms of animal and vegetable life concerned in the production of putrefaction, fermentation, and disease. Micro-organisms thus defined include Protozoa, Hyphomycetes, Blastomycetes, Streptothrices, and Bacteria. By far the greater number of disease processes are attributable to the agency of pathogenic bacteria. Protozoa The Protozoa comprise the lowest forms of animal life. Butschli defines them as organisms composed of a single cell, or groups or associa- tions of cells of similar structure which behave physiologically, i.e. with regard to their mode of nutrition, metabolism, irritability, and motility, like typical unicellular animals. The same author divides the Protozoa into four classes : Sarcodina, Sporozoa, Mastigophora, and In- fusoria. I. Sarcodina comprise all Protozoa which, when active and motile, move by simple proto- plasmic streaming, or by means of movable protoplasmic processes of varying shape, the form of the organism undergoing consider- able modifications. Food particles are taken up directly into the organism. Reproduction occurs through simple division. II. Sjmrozoa are parasitic Protozoa which multiply through division or budding into a variable, at times large, number of capsulated reproductive bodies (so-called spores). The plasma of these spores may in turn divide into a number of germs. Recent investigations have shown the existence of a sexual mode of multiplication in a number of Sporozoa. III. Mastigophora are Protozoa which, during their most active period of existence, are furnished with one or more cilia, and are actively motile. IV. Infusoria comprise the highest and most diversified forms of Protozoa. They are per- manently, or during a greater part of their existence, supplied with numerous cilia which serve for feeding besides locomotion. All of these classes comprise parasitic forms, the group of the Sporozoa being the most important and highly adapted to a parasitic existence in different organs, or within certain cells. Whereas certain forms like the malarial parasites are extremely minute, others (Gregar- ines) may be visible to the naked eye. Nuclear division may be direct or accompanied by karyokinesis. The nucleus may be exceedingly small and single, as in the malarial parasite, or there may be several nuclei, macro- and micro- nuclei, as in Infusoria. Protozoa may be amoeboid or of constant form, or they may exhibit amoeboid movement in one stage of their development, and a great variety of form during other periods of their growth. In some stages the protoplasm may be scarcely differentiated, in others highly specialised. The protoplasm may be differentiated into a hyaline ectoplasm and granular endoplasm. Some forms possess a cuticula and, apparently, a contractile sheath. Some move by pseudopodia, others by a flowing motion, others again by cilia and undulating membranes. The protoplasm may contain con- tractile and stationary or digestive vacuoles, and starch-like and fatty granules. Whereas some live within cells as parasites (Hsemocytozoa of malaria), others directly ingest the cellular ele- ments of their host (Amoeba coli). The policystic Gregarines possess anchor-like organs by which they attach themselves to the cells of the intes- tinal mucous membrane. Multiplication occurs asexually through nuclear division followed by fission, through direct or indirect sporulation with or without the formation of a resistant membrane, the resulting spores being amoeboid, flagellated, or crescentic, etc. In some Protozoa the whole cycle of development occurs in one host, in others two hosts are necessary, the sexual development only taking place in one of these (malarial parasites of birds and man). In the case of the malarial parasites we have the formation, alongside of the asexually produced individuals, of dissimilar male and female para- sites in the blood which undergo a true sexual process in certain species of Culicidje (see article on " Malaria"). In other Protozoa we have a simpler sexual process through con- jugation of similar individuals, the result- ing organism becoming encysted or not. In Infusoria partial conjugation occurs, the micro- nuclei being interchanged, after which the organisms again separate. The reader is re- ferred to the works mentioned in the biblio- graphy for further details regarding Protozoa. Hyphomycetes The Hyphomycetes, or moulds, are plants composed of cells of minute size, the cells which do not contain chlorophyll possessing