LUPUS ERYTHEMATOSUS 91 left a tell-tale scar, otherwise a diagnosis must often be reserved until the return of warm weather decides the matter. Treatment.—The treatment of any disease of which the cause is unknown is necessarily symptomatic and empirical. Something, how- ever, may be deduced from histological observa- tion, viz., to avoid irritating and to do all that is possible to dry the part. The disease is extremely sensitive to irritation, and since the course is usually long it is of the utmost im- portance not to destroy the confidence of the patient at the commencement by risliing any application which might spread the disease. Internal medication is rarely of much value. Some benefit is sometimes observed after the administration of quinine or phosphorus, but they and other drugs so frequently prove abso- lutely useless that they are but rarely given. The safest of all applications are drying powders and powder-containing non-irritating lotions. A lotion containing calamine and oxide of zinc aa gss., boric acid 33., glycerine 3ij., and water up to §vj., is an excellent remedy to commence with. It should be painted over the diseased area three or four times a day. The erythe- matous form of the disease may often be treated with benefit by the application of collodion, either simple or variously medicated. Salicylic acid, resorcin, or pyrogallol are often added to it in the proportion of from 5 to 10 per cent. Oxidised pyrogallol 1 per cent in acetone collo- dion has proved especially useful in the writer's hands. For the sebaceous form of the disease more active treatment is required. The treat- ment recommended by Hebra of vigorous friction with soft soap and flannel is very useful for small patches. The patch should be rubbed until it bleeds, and then painted over with the calamine lotion. Mercury plaster is recommended by some, and the writer has found a combination of soft soap and metallic mercury, 3-1, useful in these cases. It must be rubbed well in. Kaposi ad- vises in obstinate cases painting with caustic potash solution 1-2, and weaker solutions such as the liq. potass of the Phar. Brit, are often used with benefit. It is a remarkable fact that these powerful applications cause less reaction in the majority of cases than the application of a simple grease such as common lard. This arrests the natural evaporation from the sur- face, and the parts beneath " heat." Unna sometimes deliberately inflames the part by the application of a 10 per cent oint- ment of pyrogallol. After the inflammation has subsided there is often considerable im- provement in the disease, but it is a method which should only be used in expert hands. Some recommend various surgical methods; but before using any of these, careful considera- tion should be given to the fact that the disease terminates spontaneously with a very perfect scar, and therefore any method which results in marked scarring, such as scraping or burning, is hardly justifiable. On the other hand, when used by those familiar with the effects of the methods and the natural course of the disease, their use is amply warranted. Lassar applies the thermo-cautery very lightly to tlie surface, or even simply approaches it close to the skin ; Crocker and Veiel advocate multiple scarifica- tion ; and Unna uses his microbenner, a very finely-pointed cautery, with which he destroys minute areas over the surface. It is hardly conceivable that scraping is ever justifiable. It is usually resorted to by those who do not realise the distinction between this disease and lupus vulgaris. The slow course of the malady must be borne in mind, and each treatment should have a thorough trial. To those only occasionally meeting with the dis- ease the methods most to be recommended are (1) calamine lotion, (2) acetone collodion with 1 per cent of oxidised pyrogallol, and (3) Hebra's soap treatment. Lupus Vulgraris. See Skin, Tuber- culosis OF. LuSChka'S Bursa.—A large crypt in the pharyngeal tonsil, probably representing the vestigial pharyngeal end of the evaginatioa which forms the pituitary body. Luschka's Foramina.—Two lateral openings between the fourth ventricle of the brain and the posterior subarachnoid space; there is one larger, median opening, the foramen of Magendie. See Meninges of the Cerebrum {Anatomy). Luschka's Fossa.—The ileocolic fossa. Luschka's Gland.—The name given to the pharyngeal tonsil, to the coccygeal gland, or to the intercarotid gland. Luschka's Muscle.— The muscular fibres of the utero-sacral ligaments at their place of insertion into the uterus. See Uterus, Displacements of the {Normal Mobility of the Uterus). Lusk'S Method.—A plan of skin-graft- ing in which the epidermis raised by a blister is used as the graft. See Skin-Grafting and Allied Procedures {Methods). LUSUS Naturae.—A freak or play of nature ; a sport; a malformation; a monstro- sity. See Teratology. Lutaud'S Lotion.—A lotion containing chloral, cocaine, and oil of eucalyptus, used to allay the itching in pruritus vulvae, etc. Lutein.—The deep yellow pigment (Lat. luteus, yellow) of the yolk of eggs and of the corpora lutea of the human ovary. See Pig- ments OF the Body {Lipochromes or Luteins).