453 ALLIED DRUG HABITS MORPHINOMANIA AND After three months' treatment in an asylum he was discharged cured. Chlorodyne habit is not uncommon, and it is remarkable how many of its victims become the subject of a coroner's inquest. Though a drug very much used by the public in their self-treatment, especially for the relief of ab- dominal pain, diarrhoea, toothache, and insomnia, it appears to be the last, viz., insomnia, which is responsible for most of the victims of the habit. The condition of these chlorodyne slaves becomes much the same as that of an opium or morphia habitue. At an inquest lately, the friends of the victim said that he would some- times lie senseless for hours after taking a table-spoonful of the drug. At another inquest it came out that the woman drank two or three 2-ounce bottles per week. Their treatment must be carried out on the same lines as that of a morphinomaniac. Eau db Cologne, Salvolatile, and Ether drinking may be called habits, but should be more properly considered with alcoholic intoxi- cants. The first two are not common, and are of necessity almost confined to the upper classes of society. Ether drinking is or was very com- mon in some districts, notably the north of Ireland—two or three rapid, evanescent ether intoxications on a market-day being considered better value than one long whisky debauch. Not long ago a man was arrested in Kensing- ton, and " it transpired that he was addicted to the self-administration of chloroform, an odd kind of mania." He was discharged pending arrangements to admit him to a home. This, however, must be a very rare habit indeed. Drug-habit victims rarely offend against any- body except themselves, and indirectly, their friends. They do not appear to swell the criminal class to any appreciable degree. I have not come across any account of criminal proceedings against such unfortunates. Dr. Revington of the Central Criminal (Lunatic) Asylum of Ireland informs me that he has no such case under his charge, nor does he know of any. To all who have fallen under the enslaving influence of drug-habit we should extend our pity and lend a helping hand, not passing them by "on the other side'' from either loathing, contempt, or self-interest. Morphoea.. See also ScLERODERMiA and Sclerema Neonatorum.—The term is applied to a circumscribed induration of the skin, usually in the form of areas of considerable size, in which the skin has a dead white appear- ance, and feels inelastic and brawny to the touch. The onset of the condition is frequently rapid and apparently causeless. When de- veloped the patches tend to persist, but occasionally disappear. Sometimes it is asso- ciated with slight sensory elevations in the affected areas, this lending support to the view that this is a nerve affection. In other cases sensory changes are slight or absent. The most common site is the upper part of the trunk. The etiology and the pathology of the condition are unknown, and in the absence of exact knowledge the condition is usually regarded as a trophic neurosis. The subject will be further considered under " Sclerodermia," of which Morphcea is really one of the varieties. MorpholOgfy.—In Biology, morphology is the science which deals with the form and structure of plants and animals. It is not customary to make it include microscopic characters {Histology) or the form of fossils {PaloBontology): these are separate studies. The ultimate aim of morphological characters is the construction of a more perfect classification of organised beings which shall more completely and correctly reveal their affinities with each other. Morrhuae Oleum. See Cod-Liver Oil. Morrhuol.—A crystalline substance con- taining phosphorus, iodine, and bromine, found in cod-liver oil. See Cod-Liver Oil. MorsuS DiabOli.— Devil's bite, a fanciful name given to the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube. See Generation, Female Organs op [Fallopian Tubes, Ostium Abdominale). Mortality.—The death-rate, or, more generally, the quality of proving fatal. See Vital Statistics (Deaths). Morton's Cough.—The name given sometimes to the cough of phthisis which is followed by vomiting. Morton's Fluid.—A fluid consisting of 1 oz. of glycerine, 10 grains of iodine, and 30 grains of potassium iodine; it has been used as an injection in spina bifida. See Brain, Surgery of (Cephalocele, Treatment); Spina Bifida {Treatment by Injection). Morton's Foot or Disease. — Metatarsalgia; a painful affection of the fourth metatarso-phalangeal joint. See Deformities {Metatarsalgia). Mortuaries. — Places in which dead bodies may be placed prior to burial; they are of value in poor parts of towns where, in their absence, the corpse may have to lie in the living rooms of the relatives or be hastily buried. The Public Health Acts of 1875 (for England and Wales) and of 1897 (for Scotland) give rules and regulations for the sanitation of mortuaries. Morula.—The mulberry-like mass (Lat. morum, a mulberry) of cells produced by the