MALARIA 114 Parasitology . . . . . .117 Human Phase of the Parasite . . 119 The Mosquito 121 The Mosquito Cycle of the Malarial Parasite . . . . .126 Demonstration of the Parasite in the Blood 128 Fallacies . . . . . .131 Demonstration of the Parasite in the Mosquito 131 Clinical Manifestations of Malaria . 131 Benign Tertian Fever . . . .133 Prodromata . . . . .133 Febrile Paroxysm . . . .133 Intermission . . . . .134 Convalescence . . . . .134 The Blood and Urine . . .134 Quartan Fever . . . . .135 The Blood 135 Abortive or Larval Malaria . . 135 Malignant (^Estivo-Autumnal) Malarial Fever 136 Bilious Pemittent . . . .137 Typhoidal Remittent . . .137 Adynamic . . . . .137 Pernicious Attacks . . . .137 Cerebral Forms . . . .137 Algide Forms . . . . .138 The Blood in Malignant Fever . . 138 Relapses . . . . . .139 Sequelae— Malarial Cachexia . . . .139 Complications . . . . .140 Typho-Malaria . . . . .140 Diagnosis . . . . . .141 Morbid Anatomy— The Blood 142 Pigment . . . . . .142 Internal Organs . . . .143 Etiology 143 Treatment . . . . . .144 Prophylaxis . . . . . .145 See also Blackwater Fever {Etiology, Dia- gnosis) ; Bronchi, Bronchitis {Acute, Etiology) ; Cachexia ; Cholera Nostras {Etiology); Cor- nea {Interstitial Keratitis of Adults, Etiology); Dengue {Diagnosis); Dysentery {Special Forms and Co?)iplications, Malaria); Epidemiology {Seasonal Fluctuations); Hematuria {Malarial); Heart, Affections of Myocardium and Endo- cardium {Simple Endocarditis, Etiology) ; In- sanity, Etiology of; Leucocytosis {Leuco- penia); Liver, Diseases of {Portal Cirrhosis, Morbid Anatomy, Malarial Type); Liver, Tropical Diseases of {Tropical Abscess, Etiology, Malaria); Meteorology {Influence on Health) ; Nephritis {Chronic Nephritis, Etiology, Mal- aria) ; Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis {Etiology); Nerves, Neuralgia {Etiology); Ponos {Relation to Malaria); Pregnancy, In- tra-uterine Diseases {Feetal Malaria) ; Pur- pura {Symptomatic, Infectious); Relapsing Fever {Diagnosis) ; Retina and Optic Nerve {HcBmorrhages in Retina, Causes) ; Scrotum AND Testicle, Diseases of {Orchitis, Malarial Orchitis); Septicemia {Diagnosis); Tubercu- losis {Mixed Infection); Tropics, Unclassed Fevers of {Typho-malarial Fever, Kala-Amr); Typhoid Fever {Diagnosis); Unconsciousness (Auto - Intoxications, Malaria); Undulant Fever {Etiology). Nomenclature and Synonyms. — The term malaria, originally an Italian word derived from mala, bad, and aria, air, has now come to be very generally employed by most civilised nations throughout the world. The French, however, more commonly employ the terms paludisme, paludeennes, fievres palustres, im- paludisme, fievres intermittentes, and fievres des marais. The popular term in English was ague ; in the Tropics " fever " is more usual, the German equivalent being wechselfieber. The recent discoveries in the life-history of the malarial parasite prove that the word malaria is etymologically incorrect, but inas- much as it is so universally adopted and so well understood, no very useful purpose would be attained by renaming the disease. Ross has suggested the terms hoemamoebiasis and gnat fever; objections, however, might be raised to both of these terms, and it is unlikely that the word malaria will ever be discarded. Definition.—Malaria is a specific infectious disease caused by the presence of certain proto- zoal organisms in the red corpuscles of man, manifesting itself by anaemia, melansemia, splenic enlargement, and usually pyrexia, which may exhibit a characteristic periodicity, and ^ pass from man to man by the agency of certain species of mosquito. History.—Hippocrates, Celsius, and Galen frequently refer to the disease in their writings, and there is but little doubt that in early times malaria was a scourge in most of the warmer parts of Europe. Hippocrates gives the best accounts of the malady; he observed, for ex- ample, that the severe types of the fever were prevalent at certain seasons of the year. He was aware also of the liability of the remittent fevers to malignancy, and of the benignity of the frank intermittents. Coming to later times, the work of Morton in the seventeenth century, and those of Sydenham and Lancisi early in the eighteenth century, deserve mention. Beyond the fact, however, that the clinical features of the disease were more accurately described by these more modern writers, no real advance was made until 1712, when Torti, in Italy, began to differentiate malaria from the other fevers. Cinchona bark had been introduced into Europe ^ So far as is known at present the disease, under natural conditions, is conveyed in no other way. Lower animals, birds, and reptiles, although they harbour allied species of hremoprotozoa, have not been found to serve as intermediate hosts for the malarial parasites of man.