LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 57 formal shelters may be built of wood and glass. The roof and also, preferably, the sides should be made of glass. The shelters should not be deep—they ought not to form actual rooms— and the roof should slope from the back up- wards and forwards, so that there may be as little opportunity as possible for the collection of foul air. The shelters may either be fixed— in which case two or three are necessary, facing in different directions—or may be made to rotate. Rotatory chairs, such as are provided for yacht decks, are similarly convenient. This free exposure of the patient can be efficiently carried out in all climates (p. 60) and at all seasons. Thus the writer has frequently observed that patients under the treatment make more rapid progress actually during the colder months of the year. It is, of course, necessary to watch carefully that the peripheral circulation is well maintained. The finger-tips and toes should be kept warm. This is readil}" achieved by woollen under-garments, hose, and gloves, and a sufficiency of warm wraps. Although less enjoyable, perhaps, the out-of-door method may be continued after dark with perfect safety. When the patient has to be indoors, e.g. during night, the windows must be kept fi-eely open. The popular dread of night air must be overcome. If there are two windows, both should be kept wide open. It is a convenient plan to draw both sashes until they are parallel. Windows should never be closed for warmth merely; that can be attained by sufficient clothing and a fire in the grate. (2) Rest.—It is wise at first—at least until the patient's condition be thoroughly studied— to keep the patient at rest. Where the temperature swings much, and where the circulation is prejudiced—rapid, soft pulse—the patient should rest entirely. It is a good rule to insist on practically complete rest, if the temperature rises day by day above 100-5°, or if the pulse commonly registers over 90 beats per minute. With improved condition the rest ■will be less absolute. Thus the patient may be allowed to take a short turn—ten to fifteen minutes—every hour, resting for the remainder. As the improvement continues, the active periods may be combined, and the patient walk for three-quarters of an hour to two hours in the forenoon, and a similar period later in the day, resting entirely between. In all cases, rest for half to three-quarters of an hour should be insisted on before meals, and rather longer after meals. (3) Activity. — As recovery proceeds, the necessity for rest lessens. The resting periods become shorter, and the intervals of activity may be lengthened. In all cases the amount of activity should be regulated by the effects produced. Of this the best gauge is found in the temperature and pulse, which should be recorded after exercise. If these are un- disturbed, the activity may be continued and even increased ; if they are unfavourably dis- turbed, the activity must be restricted. Walking exercise, especially at first, must be studiously quiet, at the rate of two to three miles an hour. Hurry must be strictly for- bidden. Walking is practised wisely, to com- mence with, on the flat. With growing strength, gradually increasing inclines may be faced. At a later period, mild golfing exercise and the like may be allowed, the patient being guarded scrupulously against over-fatigue, and against chill after over-heating. Simple breathing exercises are also of service. The patient should be taught to breathe slowly, through the nose (not the mouth), emptying the chest well in expiration. In sitting and walking he must maintain, as far as possible, an ei'ect carriage. This may be aided and defects of chest architecture remedied by walking with a stick passed behind the back in front of the folded elbows, which are advantageously ap- proximated behind by straps or other means. Healthy respiration is also favoured by simple movements of the outstretched arms backwards, upwards and backwards, and so on. To be serviceable and free from risk, the movements should be slow, timed by approximately normal rate of respiration. If dumb-bells or other apparatus be added, the weight should be light. (4) Dietary.—This is of the greatest im- portance. Loss of appetite, disturbed digestion, interference with assimilation, and resultant loss of flesh—both muscle and adipose tissue— are conspicuous features of the disease. How is this to be remedied ? The answer is, by dieting the patient properly and getting him to eat sufficient. This is not synonymous with forced feeding. The latter, as sometimes 1 practised, may do a vast amount of harm. In [ proportion as physiological conditions are ful- I filled, there is little need to force the patient to feed. He eats of his own accord. In order to this, the rules regarding fresh air, day and night, must be followed strictly. It is often helpful to let him have his meals in the open air. Thus bathed in fresh air, the patient quickly drops his digestive disability. Com- plaints of nausea, sickness, pain, oppression, disappear. Appetite returns, and there develops often a craving for food not easily satisfied. The quantity of food may be increased without risk of digestive discomfort. Milk and fats of various kinds, which previously evoked loathing disinclination, are taken greedily. The bowels become more regular. In some instances it is advisable, in addition to the rest prescribed before and after meals, to let the patient I'ecline continuously during meals. By this means the tendency to sickness, when the stomach is full, may be averted. In all cases the meals should be taken slowly.