60 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS eluding persons in receipt of very limited incomes, which cease in case of illness. The existing sanatoria are not equally good. In selecting a sanatorium it is the thoroughness of regime and excellence of management rather than latitude which should be the guide. It is advantageous for the great majority of patients —and it is certainly possible—to be treated under the normal climatic conditions of the individiial. His cure can be attained and, other things being equal, should be under- taken under the conditions which he must meet when recovery has taken place. The question of climate is less significant than that of regime. Climate.—The special curative influence fre- quently attributed to certain climates cannot be maintained. The cure of pulmonary tuber- culosis may be successfully undertaken in ordinary climates, provided the air is pure, the physiological regime realisable, and the diag- nosis has been made sufficiently early. The experience of the Victoria Hospital affords remarkable testimony on this point. Patients have time after time been received from the healthiest counties and country-sides in Scot- land—the places to which consumptive patients are frequently sent—have arrived pallid and ill, and have regained colour and health in the neighbourhood of Edinburgh, whose climate has been sometimes decried unjustly as unwhole- some. Mere change to a better climate is commonly insufficient, and the conception is misleading. None the less is it true that wisely directed change of climate exerts a salutary influence, if other indications are fulfilled. There can be no doubt that much of the beneficial influence of certain climates is hopelessly lost, owing to the absence of intelligent appreciation or application of the major hygienic requirements. The sig- nificance of many climate resorts would be enormously enhanced if they possessed sanatoria or, at least, hotels built and conducted on sanitary principles. In proposing to send a patient to another climate, care must be taken that he is in a fit state to stand the fatigue and discomfort of journeying and hotel life, the absence of home attention, and the expense of the whole. It is a mistake to allow a patient far afield who has to economise at every turn. He must be informed that, wherever he is, the curative process is a matter of time, and many months, a year or two, even several years, may be required to ensure satisfactory recovery. It is not advisable to let pyrexic patients under- take long journeys. When complications are present, it is generally best to be content with hygienic measures nearer home. Above all, dying patients ought not to be sent abroad ; that is a hardship which both they and their friends may well be spared. The varieties of climate may be simply grouped thus:— 1. Sea-coast climates (including sea voyages). They have the advantage of pure air which is frequently in movement (ozone), a maximum of simlight, relatively equable temperature and warmth, according to their latitude. Most of them exert a sedative influence, and patients sleep well. But they may be windy, even boisterous, with clouds of sand, and there is more or less moisture. As examples of these may be mentioned the south and south-west coasts of England, the French and Italian Riviera, south-west coast of France (Arcachon, Biarritz), south-east coast of Spain, the Sicilian coast, north coast of Africa, Canary Islands, Madeira, West Indies, Florida. A sea voyage has theoretically the same kind of advantages, but their significance depends on the amount of time spent on deck. Unfortunately, both public and private cabins are commonly badly ventilated. If, for any reason, much time is spent in these, in corresponding proportion is the advantage lost. It is unwise to send patients on a sea voyage unless they have a distinct liking for the sea. The coast climates have a protective rather than a curative value. Hence they are service- able in chronic quiescent tuberculosis, and in cases complicated by catarrhal tendency or by albuminuria. They are advantageous for consumptive patients—particularly children— with glandular, osseous, or articular involve- ment. 2. Desert climates, which have the advantage of purity and dryness of air, and a maximum amount of sunshine and heat. As gravely counterbalancing disadvantage must be reckoned the frequency of dust-storms. As examples may be mentioned Helouan, Luxor, Assouan, Biskra. They are suitable for the same sort of cases as are coast climates. On slowly progressive cases they exert a curative influence. 3. Forest and woodlaivd climates of relatively small elevation (say 150-1500 feet). The character of these varies much with the latitude, distance from sea-board, and the kind of country. In addition to purity of air, some advantage is directly referable to the trees (shelter from wind, absence of dust, sweetness, even fragrance, of atmosphere, as in pine woods). As examples may be mentioned the Scottish, Welsh, and Irish Highlands, the Black Forest, Pan, Montreux, the Italian Lakes, Meran. All cases — even acute, progressive conditions—may be benefited by such climates, if only the local arrangements be satisfactory, and too great effort be not expended on the journey, and the stay be long enough. 4. Mountain climate, say 1500-10,000 feet or more. The variety is immense, according to the elevation. The advantages include purity, rarity, dryness, and coolness (coldness) of