FORENSIC 264 MEDICINE, to have, carnal knowledge of a girl between 13 and 16, with consent, or even on solicitation by the girl, is guilty of a misdemeanour. It is a sufficient defence in such cases, where there has been consent, that the accused had reasonable groTind to believe that the girl was of or over the age of 16 years. The accusation must be brought, however, within three months of the commission of the offence. It is also a misdemeanour to have, or to attempt to have, carnal knowledge of a female idiot or imbecile, under circumstances which do not amount to rape, and when the oiTender knew that the girl or woman was an idiot or imbecile. In order to constitute the crime of rape it is not essential that there shall have been emission, or even penetration, since the mere introduction of the penis within the vulvae is sufficient, and it is, therefore, not necessary that the hymen shall have been injured. Consent means free consent by a woman who is uninfluenced by extreme terror, and who is fully conscious at the time. Intercourse with consent obtained by personation of a husband, or by threatening the life of the woman, is rape. The administration of any drug or other matter with intent to stupefy or overpower, so as to enable any person to have unlawful carnal connection, is a misdemeanour. It must be noted that rape may be committed on unchaste as well as chaste women, and there- fore that forcible intercourse with a prostitute against her will constitutes the crime. In all cases of rape on adults it is naturally required that the woman should resist to the uttermost of her power, and hence in all such charges we expect to find evidence of a struggle and resistance on her part. Such evidence must be sought for in disorder of dress, scratches or bruises about the face and neck due to attempts to prevent cries for help, bruises about the thighs and wrists, etc. In the absence of such signs of a struggle a medical man must consider the possibility of the woman having fainted, or of more than one ofi'ender having been impli- cated in the assault, and of the possibility of the woman having been rendered helpless by administration of drugs or from other causes which would prevent her offering resistance. As a rule, the probability of a strong woman being forcibly overcome by a single man is ex- tremely doubtful, and unless there are special circumstances connected with the case, such as those indicated above, charges of this nature must be investigated with special care. The comparative strength of the woman and her assailant must always receive consideration. Charges of rape most frequently occur in connection with children. In them we do not expect to find evidence of resistance, nor, as a matter of fact, are the local signs of violence to the genital organs usually marked unless forcible penetration has been attempted and great brutality has been used. In the case of young children charges of in- decent assault are very frequent, but as a rule the assault merely consists in libidinous practices, without serious injury to the genital organs. There are frequently in these cases slight abrasions of the frenulum or inner surface of the labia, accompanied with inflammatory red- ness of the parts and tenderness. Frequently in the case of young children a mother suspects an indecent assault from the appearance of irri- tation of the external genitals or presence of a whitish muco-puriilent discharge. This may be the result of attempted rape and gonorrhoeal infection, but, on the other hand, it cannot be too strongly accentuated that a similar condition is frequently the result of imcleanliness, poverty, and defective nutrition. The distinction be- tween such an innocent discharge and a gonor- rhoea may be made by means of staining for gonococci (somewhat similar organisms may be present in innocent discharges), and by observing the effect of general treatment ; innocent dis- charges quickly disappearing, as a rule, on the application of ordinary remedies and cleanliness, whereas gonorrhoea is more intractable. In rape upon girls of more advanced age the local appearances may consist of injury to the hymen and other parts of the genital organs, but the extent of the injuries will depend upon the physical development of the individual and violence used in each case. The hymen will in all probability be ruptured if there has been complete penetration, and the other signs of injury may consist in lacerations of the entrance to the vagina, and of its walls implicating the bladder anteriorly or rectum behind. Rupture of the hymen is, however, not a necessary result of complete penetration even in young virgins, and in all cases care must be exercised not to confound natural irregularities of the free margin of the hymen for ruptures either of recent or remote origin. In women who have been accustomed to sexual intercourse, while we may expect more marked evidence of a struggle and resistance to the assault, and while injuries caused by the fingers on the external surface of the genital organs are frequently seen, signs of injury in- ternally, as a result of the act of connection, may be wholly absent. Under all circumstances it is important that the examination of the assaulted party should take place without any delay or warning. The general appearance and behaviour of the woman must be noted, as also the condition of her dress and any marks of external violence, likewise the condition of her external genital organs with reference to scratches, presence of semen sticking to the pubic hairs, or on her clothing; and internally, any appearances indicative of violence or recent connection.