MALARIA 134 is hot and dry. The patient is restless, com- plains of thirst, and asks to have the bed- clothing removed. In a bad infection there may be wandering—very rarely active delirium or coma. Vomiting, which is generally bilious in character, may still continue as well as diarrhoea. The pains are still complained of. The skin has a slight dusky yellow appearance, which is almost characteristic of malaria; there may be herpes about the lips or nose. The pulse is full and bounding. The spleen is enlarged and the margin, which is generally palpable, is soft and rounded, and usually a little tender. The liver is enlarged to a slight degree. The temperature has now reached its maximum and may be as high as 107° F. ; it is more often between 103° F. and 106° F. This stage per- sists longer than the cold stage, usually from four to five hours. At the end of this time sweating sets in ; it generally begins about the head, but soon becomes general, and often so profuse that the patient becomes drenched and requires a change of bed-clothing. The tempera- ture then begins to fall rapidly and the severe symptoms to abate ; the headache disappears, the pulse becomes soft and diminishes in fre- quency, the mouth becomes moist, and the patient, although a little weak and limp, feels better than before the attack set in. Generally he falls asleep. In children the sweating stage may be altogether absent, or hardly noticeable. (3) The Period of Intei-mission. — This has now set in, and the patient often feels strong enough to resume his work. Temperature re- mains subnormal, but after an interval of forty- eight hours from the onset of the first attack, a second exactly similar attack follows, and if the disease is untreated the attacks continue to recur. In cases which are untreated they tend gradually to diminish in intensity and to post- pone until, finally, spontaneous cessation takes place. Reinfection may occur in malarious countries, or without reinfection the febrile attacks may be indefinitely prolonged or re- peated until they eventuate in cachexia or death. Fortunately, the specific treatment is nearly always available, at least for Europeans. (4) Convalescence.—In recent, uncomplicated and properly treated cases this is not, as a rule, prolonged, the patient's health being re-estab- lished in two or three weeks' time. A certain degree of ana;mia is present, but the blood rapidly regains its former hsemoglobin and cor- puscular value. In benign tertian infections it is only the occurrence of repeated reinfections or relapses that, when improperly treated, leads to marked deterioration of health. The Blood in Benign Tertian Fever.—An ex- amination of the finger-blood at the period of rigor will invariably reveal the presence of the characteristic parasite {Hceniamoaha vivax). The small non-pigmented amcebulai will be seen to he actively amoeboid, constantly changing their shape and position in the red cells; at one moment they may be cruciform (see Plate II., Fig. 1), at another star-shaped, or, if at rest, ring-shaped. Pseudopodia are protruded and retracted. If the case be one of moderate severity, these amoebulBe will be present in con- siderable numbers, being contained in nearly every field. Some of the red cells may contain two parasites, rarely more. If repeated exam- inations be made during the apyrexial period the infected red cells will be observed to have become pale and expanded, and the parasites they contain to have increased in size and acquired fine yellowish, dark brown, or black pigment granules (see Plate II., Fig. 3). To- wards the end of this period the parasites have so grown as to occupy nearly the whole of the red cell, and it may be difficult to distinguish parasite from cell on account of the pallor of the latter (see Plate II., Fig. 4). The pigment will have increased, and will have become coarser in grain and deeper in colour through the aggregation of the separate particles. As the parasite grows, amoeboid movement gradu- ally becomes more sluggish until it finally ceases. On examining the blood just as the temperature is rising, the characteristic sporocytes, or rosette bodies, will be found; and, as described under parasitology, will be found to consist of from fifteen to twenty-three spores surrounding a central mass of pigment (see Plate II., Figs. 5 and 6). The arrangement of these spores has been compared to that of a sunflower. The spores when free are seen to be slightly oval in shape, each, it may be, showing a clear refractile nucleus (see Plate I., Fig. 4). It will be re- membered that these bodies re-enter new red corpuscles and become young amoebulas, thus completing the asexual life-cycle. Besides these, some large, free, and coarsely pigmented spheres will be seen. Such spheres are present during the greater part of the apyrexial period, but more especially during the first half of it. They are the gametocytes or gametes ; formerly, until their true significance and the part they play in the mosqviito cycle had been discovered, re- garded by some as degenerate or sterile bodies. Some of these gametes, if carefully watched, will be foiind after a time to protrude long, thin, and very delicate flagella, usually three or four in number, which break away and swim actively about (see Plate II., Fig. 9). The spheres capable of exflagellation, or micro-gametocytes, can be distingiiished from the non-flagellating spheres, or macro-gametes, by the arrangement and the motility of the pigment which they contain. A certain niunber of the polymorpho- nuclear leucocytes will be found to contain melanin granules, and, in the absence of malarial parasites in the peripheral blood, these afford valuable evidence of a recent malarial attack. The JJrine in Malaria. — During the cold stage, the amount of urine secreted is increased,