486 MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE pressure, and feels hot to the touch. The limb is held in a fixed position, and the skin may also be affected. The acute symptoms are not of a long duration, but the muscle remains hard and infiltrated for some time; the process gradually clears up, leaving the muscle some- what atrophied. Fibrous Myositis.—It may well be questioned whether such a disease as primary fibrous myo- sitis exists, such cases having usually been regarded as either secondary to some acute condition, or have been designated "rheu- matic." Foreign authors regard it, however, as an entity, and, therefore, it may be well to give a short account of the disease. Symptoms,—Fibrous myositis is a chronic disease of gradual onset, affecting either a single muscle or a group of muscles, or it may be general. The lower extremities are usually first affected, but the disease may begin in the sterno- mastoid muscle. The patient complains of a drawing pain in the affected part, there is stiffness of the limbs and contraction of the muscles. They become very hard, but are not especially painful on pressure. The course of the disease is very protracted, but it is said that under suitable treatment there is a tendency to recover. Morbid Anatomy.—There is an increase of the interstitial tissue, and some of the muscle fibres are granular and others are atrophic. The blood-vessels are normal. (c) Myositis Ossificans.—This disease is char- acterised by a progressive bony formation in the muscles, with the result that the patient comes to be in a fixed and immovable position. Etiology.—The disease commonly affects the young, and generally starts before the fifteenth year of life. Of 45 cases, in 11 it was noticed during the first year of life, in 16 from one to five years, in 11 from five to fifteen, and in 7 after fifteen years of age. Males are rather more liable to be attacked than females, the proportion being about two to one. The direct cause of the disease is luiknown; trauma seems to be the most frequent ascribed cause of the onset. Symptoms.—The earlier symptoms are usually ascribed to inflammation of the muscle, following on injury ; at other times the disease begins quite insidiously, there are attacks of pain which occur at intervals, and are usually ascribed to rheuma- tism. Small hard masses may now appear in the muscle, which slowly becomes larger, or, what is rather more frequent, remains stationary for some time, and then during an exacerbation of the disease rather rapidly grows, and then again during a quiescent period remains about the same size. The disease, however, steadily ad- vances ; small masses of bone can be felt in the muscle, and these gradually increase in size and become fused with one another. The muscles most commonly affected are those of the back of the neck, back, and thorax, and less frequently those of the arms, legs, and jaw. Owing to the affection of the muscles of the back, rigidity and fixidity of the spinal column is produced, so that the head becomes bent forward, the back curved, the position giving to the patient an appear- ance which is most characteristic of the disease. The shoulder-blades may become fixed to the thora:^, and as the pectoral muscles are often affectfed the arms become fixed to the sides, and the patient can no longer raise the arms to his mouth in order to feed himself. The disease progresses and the patient becomes less and less capable of any movement, and the rigidity is such that any attempted movement of the arm by another person only results in the movement of the patient "en bloc." The limbs become flexed owing to the shortening of the muscles. The thorax may now be simply a bony cage in which no respiratory movement is possible, the whole of respiration being carried on by the diaphragm ; the masseters may also be so affected that the jaws are tightly closed together, making the feeding of the patient a matter of some difficulty. Even at this late stage of the disease fragments of bone of a fantastic shape can be felt in the muscle free from any attach- ment to the skeleton. Certain muscles are said never to be affected ; these are the muscles of the face, the platysma, the eye muscles, the tongue, the muscles of the oesophagus and larynx, the diaphragm, heart, muscles of the perineum, the genital apparatus, and the sphincters. The great toes are often abnormally small owing to some defect in development of the phalanges, and a similar malformation has been described in the development of the thumb. The course of the disease is very prolonged, the patient remaining for long periods in a stationary condition, and at intervals suffering from the acute exacerbation of the disease above described. Pathology.—Two views are held with regard to the pathology of myositis ossificans. The first is that the condition is an inflammatory one, and the second is that it is a new growth similar to multiple exostoses. The examination of the new-formed bone would seem to show that it is true bone, having the normal chemical constituents and the anatomical characters of true bone. The growth originates either from the bones themselves, from the tendons, or from the fascia and connective tissue of the muscle. The atrophy of the muscle is second- ary to the affection of the intermuscular tissue. 7. New Growth in Muscle.—Primary new growth in muscle is rare, and needs but short mention here. Sarcomata, fibro - sarcomata, myxo-sarcomata are the most frequent neo- plasms of muscle. The growth develops from connective tissue, and secondarily causes atrophy and destruction of the muscle fibres. The following growths are of rarer occurrence: