12 LUNACY called upon to do with the insane, or to take part in the proceedings which lead to depriva- tion of liberty, or the control of one's affairs, or both, the role of the medical man is the most important. Without the one or two medical certificates, as the nature of the case requires, the legal machinery to interfere either with liberty or with the management of affairs can- not be set in motion except by the criminal authorities for crime or minatory conduct, and under urgency or extra-judicial orders, which are only available for a few days, and must lapse unless a judicial order is obtained. Re- cognising this responsibility, the medical schools in recent years have made provision for a train- ing in mental disease, which fits the practitioner better for such work. Not less important is it that he should be in possession of a knowledge of the statutes in so far as they concern himself and the individual considered insane. There is scarcely a medical man who is not called upon every year to examine and certify persons insane or alleged to be so. Perhaps 60,000 such cer- tificates are called for annually, and if to these be added mental reports required in civil and criminal cases, the total will not fall short of 200,000. On an average each medical prac- titioner signs two or three certificates a year— some, of course, more; and, moreover, there is a large proportion of the medical profession who have entrusted to them the care of the un- certified as well as certified insane of every class —private, Chancery, curatory, and pauper— living in family or in sanctioned private dwell- ings. Provided, in the matter of certification, the medical man does his part—always a dis- interested one — in all good faith, and with reasonable care, no action at law with the least prospect of success will be against him. The exercise of reasonable care will be fully appre- ciated when it is understood that the lunatic, except in criminal and quasi - criminal cases, and in Chancery or curatory cases—and these are few, perhaps not 1 per cent of all lunacy —is neither personally present in court nor represented by an agent. It is not a matter of surprise that among the thousands certified every year there are one or two of the litigious type in whose power it is to put medical men to worry, annoyance, and expense when there is no possible chance of success. Further, it is within the rights of every lunatic, recovered or otherwise, to demand from the central lunacy authority copies of the documents upon which legal deprivation of liberty and of the manage- ment of affairs followed. In how large a measure the question of responsibility in crimi- nal cases, of testamentary capacity in civil cases, of the liberty of the individual in relation to others and to his property, of the treatment to be followed and in what place, in the variety of cases submitted to his judgment and com- mitted to his care outwith institutions, rests with him, is well understood, and need not, if space allowed, be dilated upon. No less important is that duty, solely his, of determin- ing whether the individual has been restored to sanity, and thereby to the rights of citizenship. In regard to the legal formalities and the procedure incidental to lunacy, great diversity of practice prevails in England, Scotland, and Ireland. That being so, the better course to follow will be to point out, first, his duties in relation to the certification of the insane of all classes, no matter in which country residing; and, second, his duties as medical attendant of those who are not residing in institutions. These are the same in the three countries. Whether the nature of the case requires one or two certificates, with a setting out of the facts, observed by himself and conmiunicated by others, or bears on the face of them simply the opinion or conclusion arrived at, or some- thing in the nature of a report on soul and conscience of unsoundness of mind or in- capacity to manage one's affairs without pre- sentation of the data which lead to this opinion, equal care should be observed in taking, and recording at the time if that course be advisable, dependent upon the kind of case, or as soon as possible thereafter, full notes to be used in the construction of the certificate or report, or for reference afterwards. When a medical man is requested to examine a supposed lunatic by a court of justice, by a lunacy authority, by relations, by a parish official, by the police or public prosecutor, or by a solicitor in civil or criminal cases, he should observe the same methods. Tact, patience, and delicate handling are necessary to get at the mental state of some; others again, in fact the great majority, will reveal their lunacy without much waiting, and will not even de- mand to know, as the paranoiac invariably does, who is his examiner. Should the lunatic request to know who his visitor is, especially when removal to an asylum is contemplated, there should be no hesitation in satisfying him. The object of the interview with the patient and with those around him is to find out the existence of delusions, hallucinations, illusions, suicidal or homicidal tendencies, and other evidences of the insane state. His de- meanour, expression, speech, and conduct during the interview should be observed, as well as the temperature, when advisable; the pulse, the state of the pupils, tongue and hands, especially for tremors, etc. The physical con- dition should also be ascertained. He may be induced to write, or allowed if he suggests it. Feeling quite satisfied as to the propriety of certification, there at once arises the question of destination. Is it to be his own home, tlie home of another—it may be a stranger—or the institution? The latter is unquestionably the right and safe place for the homicidal and