MYEISTIN 512 Myristin. — A fat' contained in oil of nutmeg ; glyceryl myristate {C^R^iCi^U^^O^)^). Myrobalanum. —The dried fruits of Terminalia Chebulia or chebulic myrobalans, a driig contained in the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the British Pharmacopoeia; it contains tannin and is used for the same pur- poses as tannin, in doses of J to 1 drachm of the powder. There are two preparations for ex- ternal use, the Unguentum Myrobalani and the Unguentum Myrobalani cum Opio. My rosin.—An enzyme found in mustard seeds ; when moistened it converts the glucoside sinalbin into acrinyl isothiocyanate, glucose, and sinapin sulphate. See Mustard. Myrrh.—A gum-resin obtained from the stem of Commiphora myrrha, a tree of Arabia. It occurs in irregularly formed reddish-brown tears, and contains a resin, myrrhin, and myrrhol, a volatile oil. Dose—10-30 grs. Preparations —1. Tinctura Myrrhte. Dose—^-13. 2. Pilula aloes et Myrrhse, 1 in 4|. Dose—4-8 grs. Myrrh is also contained in Pilula Galbani Com- posita, Pilula Rhei Composita, Mistura Ferri Composita, and Decoctum Aloes Compositum. Myrrh is used occasionally for its antiseptic properties as an application to tender gums and to sore throats. In the later stages of bronchitis it is sometimes prescribed as an ingredient of cough mixtures. Its presence in aperient pills and mixtures depends on its carminative eiTects. It may be of service in the treatment of leucor- rhoea and cystitis, and has been recommended as an emmenagogue. MyrtiformiS.—Having the shape of the myrtle leaf or myrtle berry, e.g. the carunculse myrtiformes or hymeneal remains. Myrtle.—The leaves of the common myrtle {Myi'tus communis) contain an oil (myrtol) which has been used as an antiseptic in bronchitis, as have also the leaves of Myrtus cheJcen. MySOphobia.—Abnormal fear of dirt and of coming in contact with it (Gr. ftva-o^, defilement). See Neurasthenia (Symptomato- logy). Mythomania. —• Inveracity occurring as a form of insanity. MytiiOtOXism.—The morbid entity due to poisoning with shell-fish (Gr./xurtAos, a mussel), the active agent being the ptomaine mytilotoxin (CgHj::,N0.2). See Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes (Fish, Mussels). Myxasthenia.—Deficient secretion of mucus or inability to secrete mucus. MyXO-.—In compound words myxo- (Gr. ^u'la, mucus or phlegm) means mucoid or refen-ing to mucus; e.g. a myxochondroma (tumour containing mucous and cartilaginous tissue), a myxoneuroma, and a myxocystoma, etc. Myxococcidium Steg-omyise.— The so-called protozoan parasite found in the bodies of Stegomyia fasciata, the insect which is believed to transmit the poison of yellow fever. See Yellow Fever (Virus of). Myxoedema. See Thyroid Gland, Medical [iMyxoedema). See also Acromegaly [Definition and History); Alopecia {Prema- ture); Cretinism {Congenital Myxoedema); Hand {Appearances in Certain Diseases, Myxoedema); Insanity, Etiology of {Autotoxic); Pharynx, Chronic Pharyngitis {A Complication of Myx- oedema) ; Sleep, Normal and Morbid {Morbid Somnolence); Unconsciousness {Autointoxica- tions). Myxofibroma.—A fibroid or fibroma which shows myxomatous or mucoid degenera- tion. See Bladder, Injuries and Diseases {Tumours); Bone, Diseases of {Tumours, Myxoma); Orbit, Diseases of (Myxoma); Pregnancy, Ovum and Decidua (Myxoma Fibrosum); Pregnancy, Diseases of Placenta (Tumours, Myxofibroma); Uterus, Non-malig- nant Tumours op (Fibroids, Degenerations of). Myxoma.—A neoplasm consisting of mucoid tissue, resembling the jelly of Wharton ; it may occur in the spinal cord. See Myxo- fibroma and cross-references. Myxoneurosis.—A functional malady or neurosis in which there is excessive secretion of mucus, e.g. myxoneurosis intestinalis (mucous or membranous colitis). MyXOpodS.—The endocorpuscular para- sites or amoebulcB of malaria. See Malaria (Parasitology). Myxosarcoma. See Tumours (Sar- comata). MyxOSporidia. See Parasites (Pro- tozoa). N-Rays. See Blondlot Rays. Nabothian Cysts or Follicles.— Retention cysts of the cervix uteri; the race- mose mucous glands of the cervix become dis- tended with secretion and are sometimes pedun- culated ; ovula Nabothi. Martinus Naboth published his work De Sterilitate in 1707. " NaCkengrube." — The slight con- cavity on the back of the embryo in the region of the future neck. See Embryology (Embryo in Fifth and Sixth Weeks).