436 MIKROR-WRITING duced by the right cortex would not be like ordinary writing, but like mirror - writing; because, when one carefully studies mirror- writing, it is seen that not all the movements producing the writing are reversed. The move- ments producing lines from above downwards or antero-posteriorly are the same movements, and require the same muscles to perform them on the two sides, whether the writing is the usual writing or mirror-writing; but it is quite different in the lines from right to left. The movements which produce the lines from left to right, when the right hand is used, are similar movements to those which produce the lines from right to left when the left hand is used, and vice versd. The same muscles are called into action in each case, viz., the homo- logous muscles. Abduction or centrifugal motion of the right hand has its corresponding movement in abduction or centrifugal motion of the left hand. The corresponding set of muscles on the two sides is called into action, and we may conclude that the corresponding set of cells in the cortex of the two sides is called into action in the initiating of these movements. We know also that some muscles in the body, such as the vocal cords, are completely bilaterally represented in the cerebral cortex, so that either cortex can innervate both cords. Some muscles, as those of the face, tongue, lips, etc., are partially bilaterally represented in the cerebral cortex so that lesion of the fibres from one cortex produces paresis and not paralysis of one side of the face—the opposite cortex being able to innervate the muscles to some extent. What is to be supposed in connection with mirror- writing is a slight degree of this bilateral representation of the movements of the hands and fingers in the cerebral cortex. There is some evidence to show that in all probability this is the case. It is well known that it is easier to perform movements with both hands when homologous muscles in each hand are brought into action at the same time, than when heterologous muscles are brought into action. One sees this very distinctly in the familiar example of trying to twirl the thumbs in different directions. How much more difficult it is to do so than to twirl them in the same direction. Many more examples might be taken to illustrate this point that the two sides of the brain have greater facility in acting together than acting against each other. This fact, I believe, explains mirror-writing. The left hand of most of us has to be educated to write just as the right hand: it is awkward at holding the pen, at drawing lines, etc., but by degrees it is educated to copy the outlines of letters and words. Given, however, a person with a well- educated left cortex, an expert writer, probably also with a brain having the two hemispheres specially well associated through the corpus callosum, having also the speech centres more active and initiating in the left hemisphere than in the right, and the tendency will be for the left cortical cells, which are so expert, to guide or influence the corresponding right cortical cells, which are so awkward at the guiding of movements for writing correctly. Such guiding as I have shown will necessarily result in the production of mirror-writing, and this tendency will be even greater where the cells in the left cerebral cortex have been cut off from the cells in the anterior cornu of the spinal cord, such as occurs in internal capsular lesions involving the pyramidal fibres. Hence the relative frequency of mirror-writing which, I believe, is shown by hemiplegic patients. There is one other argument in favour of the movements which produce mirror-writing being guided from the same centres as those pro- ducing ordinary right-hand writing. As I have elsewhere shown, and as I have frequently observed, the mirror-writing when seen in the mirror exactly resembles the same person's ordinary writing. There is no mistaking it; it is the same handwriting, showing that the two are produced from movements guided in the same way. I can hardly believe that the right visual centres are the guiding centres, as some have supposed, because the natural tendency of the visual centres would be to trace the letters in the usual form. Indeed, in all probability the less the visual centres are actively used in writing the more chance there is of the person writing in the mirror-fashion. This is probably the explanation of the fact that there is a larger proportion of mirror - writers in those over fifteen years of age, and in expert writers, than in those who are not so expert, and only at the copying stage or learning to write. Miryachit or Myriachit. See Jumpers ; Latah. Misanthropi a.—A morbid mental state, allied to melancholia, in which there is a marked aversion to human companionship or society. MiSCarriag'e.—See Abortion; Molar Pregnancy ; Pregnancy, Diseases of Placenta AND Cord ; etc. Miscegenation.— The mixture or blending of races of mankind (Lat. miscere, to mix, and gejius, a race), especially the sexual union of whites with negroes. MiSChiati. — A material, consisting of cubes of marble laid irregularly, used for the floors of bathrooms and lavatories, especially in hospitals. MiSO-. — In compound words 7)iiso- (Gr. fiia-elv, to hate) has the meaning of disliking or hating, and is opposed to philo-; e.g. miso-