339 MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS vulva becomes moist, turgid, dilated, and hypersensitive. The sexual appetite, usually entirely in abeyance in the intervals, becomes imperative, dominates the animal's actions, and leads her to solicit the male. Now, it has been thought that menstruation in the woman corresponds to and has evolved out of the oestrus in the animal. This may be so, but it is a most significant fact that, both among civilised and savage races all over the world, sexual congress is not permitted during men- struation, whilst amongst animals it is only when in "heat" that coitus takes place, and it is only then that impregnation can occur. It is probable that the "oestrus" is a process evolved by natural selection, with the object of limiting coitus (and therefore conception) to certain seasons of the year, in order that the young might be brought forth under the most favovirable conditions of climate and food-supply. Relation to the Nervous System.—It is highly probable that all the active tissues of the body are under the control of two sets of nerves— anabolic and katabolic. An anabolic nerve brings about constructive metabolism, produces a building-up of the tissues, repair of waste, a storing up of energy. Examples of this are found in the cardiac branches of the vagus, the chorda tympani, and trophic nerves to muscles. A katabolic nerve stimulates the destructive metabolism which is always going on in the tissues ; it brings about a liberation of energy, followed by exhaustion. Examples of this action may be found in the motor nerves of muscles, the accelerator nerve of the heart, and the sympathetic nerve to the submaxillary gland. Now, in the case of the uterus, the organ is considered to be dominated by anabolic nerves during the intermenstrual interval—engaged in a constructive metabolism, preparing a decidua, building a nest for the expected ovum. But should conception not occur within a definite period the katabolic nerves assert their in- fluence, the actively growing mucosa undergoes a rapid destructive metabolism, its fabric breaks down, its capillaries burst and pour out blood which sweeps away the useless tissue debris. Then once more the uterus comes under the control of anabolic nerves and the whole cycle is repeated. But should impregnation occur the anabolic influence is augmented and continued until the close of gestation, constructive metabolism goes on uninterruptedly, and the uterus actively grows. Menstruation, being a katabolic process, is in abeyance. But, at the end of the nine months of gestation, katabolic forces gain the upper hand, and parturition (involving a great expenditure of energy) takes place. Then the uterus, by the process of involution, a de- structive metabolism, slowly returns to its normal condition. Geddes and Thomson hold that menstruation has an important relationship to the balancing of anabolism and katabolism in the female. After puberty, anabolism (or storing up of energy and building up of tissue) preponder- ates over katabolism. In pregnancy this sur- plus is spent in nourishing the foetus; in lactation, in feeding the child; and at other times, in menstruation. They look upon it as a highly specialised process, developed in the evolution of the higher Mammalia (monkeys and man), by which the two great forces of the body-metabolism (anabolism and katabolism) are properly balanced. The menstrual flow is only the most obvious outward and visible sign of this process. It is probable that menstruation is directly governed by special nerves emanating from a special nerve centre in the lumbar enlargement of the spinal cord. In many organs of the body there is a periodic variation in activity, and in every instance known this may be traced to a rhythmical emission of nerve force from a special controlling centre. As examples of such centres may be cited the cardiac, respiratory, vasomotor, and splenic centres. The nervous disturbances which manifest themselves at puberty, at the menstrual period, and at the menopause, indicate an intimate connection between the process of menstruation and the central nervous system. The uterus is supplied on each side by two plexuses—the ovarian plexus and the utero- vaginal plexus. The ovarian plexus is derived from the aortico-renal plexus. Filaments from the last dorsal and upper four lumbar nerves have been traced into it; it accompanies the ovarian artery, sends branches to the ovary and Fallopian tube, and after communicating in the broad ligament with the utero-vaginal plexus ends in the uterus. The utero-vaginal plexus is derived from the hypogastric plexus, into which the "pelvic splanchnics " from the second and third sacral nerves pass. The nerves destined for the uterus accompany the branches of the uterine artery between the layers of the broad ligament, where they communicate with the ovarian plexus. There are numerous ganglia in the plexus; a large one situated on the cervex has been termed the "ganglion cervicale uteri." Nerve filaments have been traced into the mucous membrane of the uterus, where, according to Frankenhiiuser, they end in ganglia. The pelvic splanchnics arise in the lumbar cord, in the cells of the posterior vesicular column of Clark, being also connected with the cells of the lateral horn. They emerge in the roots of the second and third sacral nerves, and without entering the chain of lateral ganglia, pass directly into the hypo- gastric plexus, from whence they are distributed to the pelvic viscera. They are chiefly vaso- dilator in function, bringing about that vascular