261 MEDICINE, FORENSIC process, and losing itself in the hair of the head behind. In this the most usual position it will be recog- nised that neither the tracheanor larynx is pressed upon. The air-passages are, however, occluded by the root of the tongiie being pressed upwards and backwards against the posterior pharyngeal wall. A result of this is, that the anterior portion of the tongue is pushed forwards, and hence not infrequently in hanging it is found protruding from the mouth, or pressing against the teeth. In hanging, other factors besides occlusion of air play a part in the production of death and also in accounting for the rapid onset of un- consciousness, namely, the large vessels of the neck are compressed, and thus interference with the blood-supply of the brain takes place, while the vagus nerves may also be affected by the constriction, and inhibit the heart's action. This is indicated by the frequent absence of well- marked post-mortem signs of death from asphyxia, and also by the body often being found in a position which betokens very rapid loss of power of voluntary movement. Evidence of the effect on the carotids will often be found in the form of transverse rup- ture of the inner sheath immediately below the bifurcation. The question of accident, suicide, or murder will be determined from the circumstances as a rule. In suicidal hanging, the body may be foimd in any position, viz., entirely suspended above the ground, or with the feet resting upon it, and even the fact of the person being in a sitting posture with the biittocks resting upon the ground is not inconsistent with suicide. Such postures bear evidence to the rapidity with which unconsciousness and power of vokintary muscular movement is lost. Homicidal hanging is rare, and in any actual case we should expect to find evidence on the deceased of a struggle, and should have to pre- sume that there had been more than a single assailant, or, except in the case of a child, that the victim had been first rendered helpless by violence or drugs. A murderer may attempt to simulate suicide by suspending a body after death; in such a case, the absence of signs of vital reaction in the constriction mark, and the presence of other marks of violence or other cause of death, would indicate the nature of the case. Strangulation.—In this form of death the constriction may be effected by a cord or other form of band, or by means of the hands, so- called manual strangulation or throttling. When a cord is used, the constriction mark is similar in appearance to that produced in hanging, but it occupies a lower position in the neck, because the force is no longer the weight of the body, and it is exerted in a horizontal direction. As a rule, the force employed is much more violent. causing greater injury, not only to the skin, but also to the structures beneath. The post-mortem appearances of death from asphyxia are more marked, as a rule, than in death by hanging; but apart from the local effects of the constriction, there is no special appearance characteristic of this mode of death. As in hanging, so here also, death is not always due solely to closure of the air-passages, but is combined with compression of the large vessels of the neck and interference with the blood- supply of the brain, and, especially in manual strangulation, pressure upon the laryngeal nerves also plays a part. Suicide by strangulation is rare, but still possible, as cases on record prove. A person may tie a cord round the neck, and then using a piece of stick as a lever, twist it until the cord is so tight as to bring on imconsciousness, when instead of the lever untwisting itself again, it catches in some obstacle and thus continues the compression. Apart from such means, however, it is possible for a person to tie a cord so tightly round his neck as to produce death. Homicidal strangulation is much more common and is especially easy of execution in the case of children. With adults it is more difficult, although if they happen to be helpless from any cause, such as drink, or are taken unawares, the signs of resistance and evidence of a struggle which one would naturally expect to find may be absent. Manual Strangulation — Throttling. — Com- paratively slight compression of the larynx is sufficient to cause complete closure of the vocal cords, or to force the base of the tongue upwards and backwards against the posterior pharyngeal wall. In both conditions asphyxia occurs in a few seconds; but it is also probable—and this fact helps to explain the great ease with which the garrotter is able to carry out his design—that in manual compression of the larynx, the superior laryngeal branch of the vagus is injured, thus producing inhibition of the respiration. The post-mortem appearances found in such cases are usually very characteristic, consisting of scratches, finger-nail marks, and bruises in the front of the neck. These marks are more numerous on the left side as a rule: this side corresponding to that on which the fingers of a right-handed assailant will act, as distinguished from the thumb, which will exert pressure upon the right side. There will also probably be other marks of violence and signs of a struggle. In attempted throttling, even if there be no immediate signs or symptoms of the violence present on the assaulted party, corroborative evidence may often be obtained after a day or two from the appearance of bruises on the neck, and also in the development of hoarseness of voice and pain on swallowing. Fractures of the larynx (hyoid, thyroid, and cricoid), as well as effusions of blood in the