172 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF breasts are almost invariably affected, either simultaneously or the one shortly after the other. As to its causation, all that can be said is that puberty and pregnancy generally initiate the enlargement, which is greatly in excess of, as well as more progressive than, the evolution which normally occurs at these periods. In quite a number of cases which set in at or about the time of puberty sudden cessation of the catamenia has immediately preceded the enlargement, thus pointing to disturbances of the sexual organs as playing an important part in the causation. In a few instances breasts which have become abnormally enlarged during pregnancy, have subsequently diminished in size to become again still further hypertrophied at the next pregnancy. On the other hand, pregnancy has been known to cause a retro- cession of the enlargement. Occasionally the hypertropliy does not make its appearance until about the fortieth year, and may be unconnected with pregnancy. In these cases the enlarge- ment is less rapid, and soon comes to a stand- still. Williams draws attention to the records of several cases of mammary hypertrophy occurring in infancy and childhood, and associated with precocious sexual development. In regard to the nature of the affection, it has been stated that hypertrophied breasts do not secrete, and that, therefore, we have not to do with a true physiological hypertrophy. But Billroth, Lotzbuck, and Delbet have recorded cases in which an excessive secretion of normal milk has been observed in breasts which have become hypertrophied during pregnancy. As a rule, mammary liypertrophy is due mainly to excessive growth of the interacinous and peri- lobular connective tissue—such cases being, therefore, more of the nature of a diffuse fibro- matosis. Occasionally the fibrous tissue is oedematous, and the lymph spaces are unduly prominent, as in the lymphatic form of elephan- tiasis. In the cases which develop during pregnancy the parenchyma takes an active part in the overgrowth, and the breast, on section, is seen to be made up of a collection of more or less well-circumscribed, lobular, fibro-parenchy- matous masses embedded in a loose perilobular stroma. Quite exceptionally, the enlargement is due to an overgrowth of the intra- and para-mammary fat. The cutaneous veins are generally considerably enlarged, the arteries to a much less degree. The axillary glands are unaffected. Clinically, the disease is characterised by the great enlargement of the breasts. The growth generally sets in suddenly about the time of puberty, or during pregnancy, and not infre- quently it progresses so rapidly that in the course of a few months the breasts reach down to the umbilicus, or may even rest upon the thighs. In other cases the progress is less rapid, and the growth comes to a standstill. The consistence of the organ is at first normal, but, as growth advances, it becomes softer, and more oedematous, and ill-defined, firm, lobular masses may be felt in its substance. The skin is usually normal and non-adherent; occasion- ally it is considerably thickened and somewhat wrinkled. The cutaneous veins may be greatly enlarged. The nipple is often effaced, and the areola is greatly expanded. Pain is seldom complained of, but the patient is greatly incon- venienced by the size and weight of the organ. In aggravated cases the unfortunate sufferer is obliged to keep the recumbent posture, and respiration may be greatly embarrassed. In many cases, fortunately, growth is spon- taneously arrested. In cases which are both acute and progressive the breasts may reach a weight of from 10 to 20 lbs., or even more. In the very acute cases Billroth observed a marked cell proliferation in the connective tissue, and expressed the belief that in this variety the hypertrophy was combined with a sarcomatous condition. These observations, however, have not been confirmed by subsequent investigators. In consequence of the low vitality of the tissue, very slight injury suffices to set up ulceration followed by gangrene and death from blood-poisoning; or the fatal termination may arise from hectic fever and exhaustion, due to abscess-formation followed by copiously dis- charging sinuses. The diagnosis of hypertrophy of the breast should present no difficulty, the condition being readily distinguished from enlargements of the breast caused by cystic fibro-adenomata and rapidly growing sarcomata. Treatment.— In the majority of instances the only satisfactory method of dealing with these cases is by amputation. Before proceeding to operation, however, the effect of full doses of iodide of potassium, along with a dry diet, should ' be tried. The breast should be well supported and a compression bandage carefully applied. Great caution, however, should be exercised in the employment either of an elastic bandage or of strapping, on account of the readiness with which they may set up ulceration. For the same reason the adjacent skin surfaces of the breast and trunk should be kept apart, other- ! wise the intertrigo which occurs may be followed by more serious complications. The patient ; should be warned against matrimony, as the j stimulus of pregnancy is liable to set up a rapid ! and dangerous increase in the growth. An eu- I deavour should be made to restore the catamenia. ^ Statistics have shown that amputation of the organ, although necessarily an operation of con- siderable magnitude, is not specially dangerous, if means be taken to prevent hsemorrhage and sepsis. The breast should, as far as possible, be emptied of blood by keeping the patient re- cumbent for some days before the operation,