MINER'S NYSTAGMUS 431 Miner's Nystag^muS. — Tremor or incoordination of the eyes. 8ee Neuroses, Occupation {^Miner's Nystagmus) ; Ocular Muscles, Affections of {Nystagmus). Miner's Phtliisis. See Lungs, Pneu- MONOKONiosis {Anthracosis). Mineral Waters. See also Balneo- logy ; Hydropathy ; Therapeutics, Health Resorts ; etc.—This name is given to those natural waters which are used either internally or in the form of baths in the treatment of dis- ease, their action being due in some cases to contained salts or gases, in others to their temperature. In dealing with the action of mineral waters three factors have to be taken into account:— (1) The Pharmaco - dynamic.—-In drinking cures by the agency of solutions of salts or gases certain operations are accomplished in the system, and, in addition, gases are absorbed from baths containing such constituents. (2) The Hydro-therapeutic.—The actual water swallowed is of definite therapeutic value ; and the heat of the water bathed in, and the use of douches, frictions, and various other hydropathic processes, has to be taken into account. (3) The Climatic, Dietetic, and Psychical.— Rest, change of air and scene, relief from the usual occupations, and a carefully-regulated diet and regimen have no small influence in pro- ducing favourable results. Mineral baths act in various ways ;— (a) By thermal effects. (b) By pressure and mechanical effects. (c) By salts and gases contained in the waters. The hydro-therapeutic effects and methods are fully described in the articles on " Hydro- pathy " and " Balneology." The general action of baths is also dealt with in the article on "Balneology." It is proposed here to write more especially of the specific actions of the salts and gases con- tained in the various natural waters, to give a classified list of the chief waters, and also some guidance as to selection in disease. It is now generally admitted that the skin will not absorb water or its contained salts; therefore the various saline constituents of the mineral waters can only act when used in baths by influencing the nerves or blood-vessels of the skin. Gases, on the other hand, are readily absorbed and taken up by the skin, and so play an important part in the therapeutic action of mineral baths. Classification is difficult, and to all the various systems advocated there is some objection. On the whole, however, the chemical classification seems the most direct and simple, the difficulty, however, being that some of the waters might be placed in two or three of the classes on account of their several constituents :—• I. Simple thermal waters (often called indifferent thermal waters)— (a) Containing nitrogen. II. Muriated saline waters—■ (a) With carbonic acid gas. (b) Without carbonic acid gas. (c) With bromine and iodine. III. Alkaline waters— (a) Simple alkaline. {h) Muriated alkaline. IV. Sulphated saline waters— (a) Simple sulphated (bitter waters). (6) Alkaline sulphated. V. Chalybeate waters. VI. Sulphur waters— (a) Simple sulphur. {b) Muriated sulphur. VII. Calcareous and earthy waters. I. Simple Thermal Waters. — These waters are characterised by their elevated temperature, ranging from 80° to 150° F., by the small quantity of contained salts, and by their soft- ness and transparency. Action.—Has been thought to be due simply to the effects of warm or hot water taken in- ternally or in the form of baths, mainly as follows :— Drinking.—The stomach washed out; tissue changes augmented and effete matters removed ; secretion of bile, urine, etc., increased. Bathing.—Softening of skin, acceleration of its circulation, calming of nervous and circu- latory systems, absorption of exudations. {a) Nitrogen-charged Thermal Waters.—Many of the simple thermal waters contain nitrogen gas in large quantity, and it has been noted that such waters have a notable influence on gout and rheumatism—Buxton, Wildbad, and Gastein in particular. Armstrong of Buxton has recently published the results of over 10,000 observations. His conclusions are as follows :— (1) That the quantity of urine passed and the excretion of uric acid and urea are largely in- creased both by drinking and by bathing in the nitrogen water. (2) That it is more efficacious when bathed in than when taken internally as regards uric acid excretion. (3) That with drinking, the diuresis is greater than when used as a bath. (4) That any deviation from the normal temperature, either by heating or cooling, inter- feres with its efficacy. (5) That while alteration of temperature would not be likely to diminish the therapeutic properties of the salts, they would, on the other hand, greatly interfere with the contained gas. The result of this investigation may supply an explanation of the marked specific action of some of the so-called simple thermal waters.