551 NEPHRITIS occur, the patient may recover. Notwith- standing the dangers of ursemia, of convulsive seizures, of diminution or even suppression of urine, there may be complete recovery; on the other hand, some cases which have apparently been doing well may occasionally take a bad turn and prove rapidly fatal, either from ursemia, or from some secondary inflammatory change affecting the pericardium, pleura, or lung. On the whole, however, apart from accidents of this nature, the prognosis of acute nephritis, although full of anxiety, is comparatively hopeful; but it must be remembered that very many cases starting in an acute attack pass on gradually to chronic nephritis, hence the daily loss of albumin must be watched with anxiety, particu- larly when the improvement appears to have become stationary. Puerperal nephritis stands somewhat by itself so far as prognosis is concerned. The prognosis as a rule is generally favourable, and the estima- tion of danger is to be formed from the severity and the frequency of the eclamptic seizures. There is often marked improvement after delivery, but there is danger from the severity of repeated convulsions. Should the patient recover from the albuminuria of pregnancy there is very little risk of ultimate nephritis, and there is fair ground for believing that when the albu- minuria persists after delivery the patient has been previously the subject of chronic nephritis. Independently of puerperal nephritis, the prognosis, in cases of chronic nephritis, is largely dependent upon the extent to which the drain of albumin interferes with the general health, and also upon the extent to which dropsical changes have progressed. So long as the nutrition of the patient can be kept up, so that the albuminous loss from the kidney is less than the daily gain of albumin from food, these patients may continue in a fair state of vitality for many years. They are, however, subject to dangers from exposure and from secondary complications affecting either the heart or the lung. Frequently, after exposure, the prognosis may suddenly be rendered more grave by a subacute attack of nephritis, which may lead to considerable dropsical effusion of a relatively intractable nature. These patients sometimes incur greater risks through the failure of the circulatory system, which consequently induces a rapid increase of dropsical effusion and of fluid in the pleura or peritoneum. When these effusions have occurred the prognosis necessarily becomes extremely grave, and the time limit is to be estimated by the nature of the pulse, by the quantity and specific gravity of the urine, and by the extent to which breathing is inter- fered with. There appears to be fair reason, however, for believing that many cases of chronic nephritis may undergo gradual improve- ment under favourable conditions, and some authors even consider that a cure is possible. Similar uncertainty attends the prognosis of chronic cirrhosis, of which the danger is to be estimated by the extent to which the different physiological systems are involved. Very frequently cases of cirrhosis, if recog- nised at an early stage, may be put under favourable conditions with regard to climate, food, and work, and the termination may be almost indefinitely postponed. In forming a prognosis it therefore becomes important to consider the extent to which the circumstances of the individual permit of needful alterations of work or of climate. The prognosis is, however, not so favourable as with chronic nephritis, inasmuch as although it is possible to diminish the risks, it is not possible to cure the disease. In spite of all that can be done, patients with cirrhosis of the kidney pursue a downward course, and, sooner or later, suffer from cardiac failure or from ureemic symptoms. As in chronic nephritis subacute attacks are relatively frequent, and the danger is increased during each attack, since for the time there is great diminution in the eliminative work. The prognosis of lardaceous disease naturally depends upon the extent to which it is possible to deal with the cause. Many cases have been reported in which, after satisfactory surgical treatment, the loss of albumin became ulti- mately arrested. It must be remembered, however, that the prognosis depends more upon the primary disease than upon the kidney affection, and that the albumin indicates that lardaceous changes are probably occurring in other organs as well as in the kidney. In these cases there is relatively little danger from interference with the eliminative work of the kidney. In the same way febrile albuminuria is, in itself, of little importance; it is not likely to produce symptoms due to interference with the work of the kidney, but it is an important indication of the extent to which the febrile condition has modified the nutrition and cir- culation. With some febrile conditions, as, for example, with diphtheria, copious albu- minuria occurs more commonly in severe cases, and the prognosis will be rendered more grave as the albuminuria increases; on the other hand, in many cases of diphtheria small traces of albumin will be found without any additional risk. The prognosis in any particular case is largely influenced by the nature of the pulse and of the heart's action. It is less serious when the pulse is of good quality and regular than when the pulse is feeble and irregular or intermittent. It is interesting in this connection to note that Sir William Broadbent, a few years ago, drew attention to the prognostic significance of a low blood pressure in acute kidney disease. In acute renal dropsy Sir William Broadbent looks upon the supervention of a certain degree