MILK 416 milk, if not to their own health; that they will do so, and especially when ill seem to prefer it, is probably dne to a craving for salt, which might well be provided with their food. No dung heaps or dung pits, or collections of filthy water, should be permitted in proximity to the milking-place or dairy. The process of milking is too often disgusting and disgraceful; the admixture of dung from the flanks and udders of the cows and the hands of the milkei'S being palpable, and, apart from its loathsomeness, inducing early souring of the milk. Cows when in sheds should, in fact, be groomed almost like horses ; and, before milking, their udders and the milkers' hands washed and wiped dry, warm water being provided in winter. The dairy should be spacious, cool, airy and light, sheltered from the mid-day and afternoon sun, and ceiled with an airy roof-loft above it. The floor should be smooth and impervious, of glazed tiles laid in concrete; for spilled milk on an uneven floor, breeding bacteria, tends to cause souring of that stored in the place. The drain should, for the same reason, be open and trapped outside, not within. All milk must, immediately after being drawn, be passed over a Lawrence's refrigerator worked by water drawn directly from a well or main at the lowest possible temperatiire. Milk thus chilled within five or ten minutes may be sent any distance by road or rail, and will remain sweet for twenty- four hours, when it would otherwise be spoiled or even poisonous. In the best German dairies it is not only strained through muslin to remove hairs, insects, etc., but with the pressure obtained by its descent from an overhead tank, it is filtered upwards through a cylinder divided by perforated diaphragms into four compartments —the upper three being filled with sand. Not only every particle of dirt, but 50 per cent to 70 per cent of the bacteria are thus removed, while the loss of fat is inappreciable. The sand must be cleaned daily with boiling water and frequently renewed. Influence of Food.—Milk containing a high percentage of each of the three food-stufFs, and fat being for the most part a product of the metabolism of albumin, the need for a diet rich in albumins is evident. Wolff" gave the best nitrogenous ratio as 1:5, but, excluding amides, we may put the ratio of albumin to the other solids as 1 : 6 to 8, according as a rich or an average milk is desired, e.g. as when butter or milk production is the object in view. This is approximately presented by pasture grass and clover hay, and by oats and maize, while in ordinary meadow hay and other cereals it is 1 : 9. Bean, oat, and wheat straw give respectively 1:12, 20, and 27, and roots about the same, varying with age and soil. When, as in winter, these enter largely into the fodder, they must be supplemented by other foods con- taining higher proportions of albumin, as pease and beans, 1 : 2'5-2-75 ; cotton cake, 1 : 3-5; linseed, 1 : 2'5; and decorticated cotton, 1 : 1-25. Though fat in the food, as Kiihne's experi- ments proved, has no influence on that in the milk, its value in nutrition is great. Calcu- lated on the total solids, roots contain but 2 per cent; hay, straw, pease, and beans, 2 per cent to 3 per cent; grass, 4 per cent; maize, oats, and cotton cake, 5 per cent to 6 per cent; de- corticated cotton, 15 per cent; and linseed cake, 12 per cent to 24 per cent. Turnips give an unpleasant flavour to the milk, as do grains, which, as well as silage, render it unwholesome, especially to infants, and are prohibited by the best dairy companies and condensed milk fac- tories. Hay should be cut as soon as the bloom is out, for the nutritive value rapidly deterio- rates. Lawes and Gilbert found that in succes- sive cuttings from the same meadow under equally favourable conditions, the woody fibre increased between 14th May and 26th June from 22'97 per cent to 38-15 per cent, while the nitrogenous substances fell from 17'5 per cent to 8'46 per cent, and the fat from 3'19 per cent to 2-71 per cent. Spoiling of Milk.—Bacteria mviltiply more rapidly the warmer the milk, but odours are more readily absorbed when it is cold ; for cold air coming in contact with warm milk expands, and rising may even serve to remove the " cowey " odour. The Creamery.—The old method of exposing the milk in shallow pans and skimming off" the cream as it rose is now well-nigh obsolete, for the separation is imperfect and so slow that some degree of souring takes place meanwhile. The well-known fact that the cream rises most rapidly when the temperature of the milk is falling, owing, as Professor Arnold explained, to the greater conductivity of the watery portion increasing the difference between its density and that of the fat, is taken advantage of in the " Jersey" creamer, a shallow tank of enamelled metal with hollow sides and bottom. The jacketing is filled with hot water, which when the milk has become warm is exchanged for cold ; the cream then rising rapidly, the subjacent milk is run off through a tap in the bottom, and the cream removed in like manner, or by tipping up the tank. But " separators " or centrifugalisers worked by steam or gas engines, and performing 3000 to 6000 revolutions per minute, have almost entirely superseded all other methods for effi- ciency and rapidity, from the facility which cream of the desired thickness can be secured, and the sweetness of the separated milk, since the cream can be obtained from perfectly fresh milk. The composition of cream varies greatly, the fat being from 20 per cent to 30 per cent, with extremes of 10 per cent and nearly 70 per cent, but the other solids are present in the same proportions as in milk. Its "viscosity"