163 MALINGERING common than some speculating solicitors would have us believe, and when actually sustained, is not usually persistent. To detect the symptoms, we must talk freely, and on general subjects, to the "patient," and closely observe his alertness or sluggishness in reply—gauging his memory at the same time that our purpose is not patent to him; we must watch his manner of approach to us, whether natural or languid, and so forth. Fits and various subjective symptoms are often complained of in "claims" after head injuries from accidents. It is a fact that though cerebral injury of course sometimes follows these injuries, yet the proportion of such a sequence to the total aggregate number of injuries is small. So we must seek an objec- tive verification before we admit the existence of "fits." Frequently the only evidence forth- coming are the statements of the claimant and those of members of his own family. It is only fair that, before proceeding to court upon such a claim, the subject should submit himself to the skilled observation of medical men ; and, if the claimant be a workman, he should enter a hospital in order that, if genuine, he may be treated, though we cannot insist upon cranial operations. But skilled observation should inform us whether his " fits," either Jacksonian or otherwise, exist. If we have not skilled evidence we are justified in giving a guarded opinion on the case, remembering always the three forms of "fits"—(1) organic, (2) neuro- mimetic, and (3) assumed or " subjective." In giving evidence in court, such a classification may be useful. If we totally disbelieve in the genuineness of the case after close observa- tion of the subject's aspect, manner, intellectual display, memory, reasoning powers, and so forth, we can convey to the court our opinion by the use of the terms "subjective" or "questionable," as applied to the symptoms, and at the same time run no risk of being considered too dogmatic or biassed in the case. Lay persons sometimes designate a slight syncopal sensation as a " fit," and they often exaggerate the number of true or false " fits." Epilepsy is much more often feigned than most practitioners suppose, in cases where the surroundings and conditions render sympathy of use to the feigner. Thus feigned fits are very common during criminal trials, in the streets and in prisons It must be here noted that though the detection ought to be easy, it certainly happens that many medical men are misled by the simulated symptoms and manifestations. Dr. Frederick Taylor, in his Practice of Medicine (1898), says, "the malingerer ... is careful not to fall so as to hm-t himself, whereas the epileptic is thrown ■down suddenly, and, if in the street, will probably strike his head or face, or will fall in the road, not making any effort to save himself. The malingerer is red in the face rather than pale or livid; his skin perspires from the exertion; his pupils are not dilated and are sensible to light. The fact that he has not lost consciousness may be tested in various ways — by touching the conjunctiva, when the eyelids will close, though he will probably resist attempts to raise the upper eyelid; by applying snuff to his nostrils; by producing some very painful impression, as by forcing one's thumb-nail under that of the malingerer." Real epileptics usually have the traces of former injuries when in fits, such as old scars, fractures, etc. The bitten tongue should be looked for, but can be easily feigned. We cannot always resort to such direct tests as a naval surgeon is recorded to have utilised when he instructed an orderly, in the malin- gerer's hearing, to run a red-hot ramrod up the "patient's" rectum; nor can we always place the quasi-epileptic upon a heap of straw and set light to the latter. But some means can be extemporised by an ordinary resourceful practitioner whereby to arrest the imposture. Buckets of cold water are often handy. Malingerers often smear their faces excessively with blood. An impostor was recently detected through it being noticed that he licked his lipjs in a manner suggestive to sympathising by- standers that drink would be welcome. Feigned fits can be often induced "to order" by our suggestion that " one should he due.'' The writer received a prisoner once from another institution with a minute account of the grave epileptic fits which, day and night, seized the unfortunate man. The report stated also that if the patient was pressed on the vertex by the fingers the convulsions were induced. It was also stated that the contents of the bladder and rectum were often passed involuntarily. The man himself gave such exaggerated accounts of his own sufferings that the case was immediately suspected by the writer as being probably entirely feigned. It was arranged that a " clinical lecture " should be given on the case, and a specially collected audience was assembled, with the express under- standing that no signs of amusement should ))e betrayed by any of the observers, however ridiculoiis the lecture might appear to them. There were some eight or nine fellow-prisoners in the ward watching keenly the proceedings from their respective beds. In the patient's hearing his symptoms and case were discussed with great gravity of manner, and it was stated that if this were a real case of a certain disease, for which a long Latin name was ex tempore coined, upon his head being pressed at the point referred to he would have in exactly fifteen seconds after the pressure commenced, convulsive twitchings commencing in one part of his frame, which would be communicated regularly through certain parts named, and