LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 29 tuberculosis is the neglect or casual laissez-faire policy followed at this time. The appearance of the patient varies much. It is often characteristic, but not always so. Some patients, although gravely affected by disease, re- main fat, round, and well-preserved. This must be borne in mind. In most instances, however, the evidence of loss of flesh and tone is striking. The patient is commonly thin. He seems thinner than he has been or ought to be. The loss of adipose tissue impresses lines on the face and other parts which should not be. The muscles are less bulky and more flabby and feeble. Thereby the natural roundness of outline is further lost. In advanced stages the patient may become literally a bag of skin and bones. The natural colour is disturbed. In many cases the aspect of delicacy is conspicuous. The thinned translucent skin reveals too easily the frequent fluctuation of the circulation. Pallor alternates with vivid blush. Often a more lasting flush brightens the malar region. In other subjects a death-like pallor is con- tinuous, and the skin assumes a sallow or clayey tint. The occurrence of more definite pigmenta- tion is discussed later in relation to the skin. Commonly, at least in advanced stages, some degree of cyanosis may be traced in the blueness of lip-edge, nose-tip, ears, and finger-ends. The skin may be markedly dry and harsh. Some degree of ichthyosis may be present. In many cases it is unduly moist and clammy (vide " Skin, Diseases of Sweat Glands "). The skeletonic architecture is extremely various. Every type of individual and, con- sequently, of thoracic form may be aff'ected. This fact must be kept definitely in view. There exists in some quarters a tendency to limit the occurrence of pulmonary tuberculosis to certain types of chest, or at least to magnify the frequency of its occurrence among such. This is incorrect; for the disease may show itself in any individual and in relation to any form of chest. None the less is it true that the chest is often long and narrow and flat. The neck may be conspicuously long, with prominent thyroid cartilage. The hands and feet tend to be long and thin, and, often enough, are clubbed at the ends. But the disease is not limited to the long and lank. Clinical Subdivision.—There is a marked dif- ference in the rate and progress of the disease in different cases, which justifies clinical sub- division : viz.—(1) Acute; (2) Subacute; (3) Chronic. While this is a handy plan of group- ing, we must bear in mind that we can only, in a relatively small number of instances, relegate the particular case to one of these groups. The great majority oscillate so much between acute- ness and chronicity that the proposed grouping is of limited value. The leading diff'erences in respect of clinical manifestation and rate of progress depend in large part on the avenue of infection. The differences are also dependent on the varying constitutions and conditions of life of individuals attacked. Such diff'erences will be considered later {vide p. 46). It will be convenient to discuss systematically the clinical phenomena in the following order :— 1. Lung Symptoms. 2. Physical Signs. 3. Constitutional Symptoms. 4. Complications. 5. Clinical Varieties and Progress. 1. Lung Symptoms These include—■ Cough.—Cough is the expression of irritation. The seat and source of irritation may be various. Most commonly the irritation exists within the respiratory apparatus; it may, however, be further afield (ear, gastro-intestinal tract, re- productive approaches), and in obscure cases this must be borne in mind. Within the re- spiratory apparatus the seat of irritation is generally at some point in the passages from the nostril to the alveoli. Certain areas of extra irritability have been recognised, e.g. the ary- teno-epiglottidean folds and the bifurcation of the trachea. The trachea itself appears to be de- finitely less reactive. The seat of irritation may be in the pleura or the lung structui'e itself. The source of irritation is frequently the absence of a sufficient supply of air. The cough may be interpreted as the prayer—or the groan —of the lung for more air. This is the cough which supervenes when the patient has been several hours in bed in a close, confined bed- room. Given an unlimited supply of fresh air, as under proper sanatory regime, this cough is seldom heard. The immediate cause of cough in many cases is the presence of expectoration within the passages. More especially is the cough likely to occur when the expectoration lies in relation to more irritable parts. Thus, for example, is explained the urgent cough on waking or getting up. The discharge has ac- cumulated during the comparative anaesthesia of sleep in the bronchi, trachea, and posterior part of the larynx, and is felt as an irritant on waking. Cough is a reflexly induced forced expiration, with closed glottis, the object being the removal of the irritant. In other instances cough is the expression of inflammatory irrita- tion, e.g. of the pleura. Cough is a good deal a matter of habit. Some persons cough little and gently, others frequently and noisily. It is in part an ex- pression of temperament, in part of ignorance. It is remarkable how patients can be trained to cease coughing, when they recognise the cough to be a mistake. To be effective the training must be associated with ample fresh air supplies. When tuberculous disease affects the larynx directly there is an immediate ground for cough of more definite nature. It is a good rule to examine the larynx of every coughing patient. The character of the cough varies much. It