MOLYBDENUM 440 epilepsia (saturnine epilepsy), molybdocachexia (lead cachexia), molybdocolica (lead colic), molybdoparesis (paresis due to lead poisoning), molybdotromos (tremor due to lead poisoning), etc. MOMctCid.—In Chemistry, a base which is capable of replacing one hydrogen atom in an acid is called a monacid base. IVIona.Cl.—In Chemistry, the term monad (Gr. fx.6vo<;, alone) means a univalent radical or element; in Biology, it is the name given to a unicellular organism, e.g. an infusorian. Monakow's (Von) Bundle.— A tract of nerve fibres (i-ubro-spinal tract) passing from the red nucleus into the spinal cord. See Spinal Cord, Medical [Anatmnical Considera- tions). MonamidO Acid.—An acid in which one of the hydrogen atoms of the radical has been replaced by amidogen, e.g. amido-acetic H 0 Hx I II acid >N—C—C—0—H, or C2H5NO2. h/ I H Monannine.—An amine derived from a single molecule of ammonia, e.g. ethylamine C^H, I C^H, j H > N. or dietliylamine C2H5 > N ; a diamine . H ) H ) is derived from two molecules of ammonia, e.g. ethylene diamine C2H^(NH2)2. Monas.—One of the infusoria. Monaster. — A stage in mitotic cell division. See Mitosis ; Caryocinesis ; Physi- ology, Cell {Reproduction of Cells). Mond Gas.—A kind of fuel used to de- crease the amount of smoke produced in manu- factures, e.g. in the potteries; it contains some carbon monoxide. It is named after Ludwig Mond (6. 1839). Mong'Olian. — The term Mongolian is applied to clinical types of idiocy and imbecility in which the facial appearance is like that of the Mongolian race, i.e. the eyes are set close together and the head is short and spherical. See Cretinism {Diagnosis); Hand [Appearance in Mongolian Imbecility); Head (Shape in Mongolian Imbecility); Mental Deficiency (Congenital Cases, Mongoloid Idiots). Mong^Olism. — The sum total of the peculiarities which distinguish the infant with Mongolian idiocy from other babies and make him look like the young of a different species of man; these include the shape of the head, the characters of the hand and of the face, the largeness of the tongue, tongue-sucking, etc. See Mongolian. Monilethrix.—A morbid condition (Lat. monile, necklace, and Gr. Opl^, a hair) of the hairs in which they become beaded from the appearance of fusiform nodes upon their shafts; trichorrhexis nodosa. See Skin, Bacteriology OF (Trichorrhexis Nodosa). Moniliform. — Beaded or necklace-like, e.g. the beaded or moniliform ribs of rickets. Monkshood. See Aconite; Toxi- cology (Alkaloids, Monkshood). Monneret's Pulse.—The typical pulse of jaundice, slow, soft, and full. Mono-.—In compound words mono- (Gr. judvos, alone or single), as a prefix, has the meaning of single; e.g. monoanesthesia (anaes- thesia of a single part), monobasic acid or salt (one in which a single hydrogen atom is re- placeable by a base), monoblepsia (a condition of vision in which objects can be distinctly seen only when one eye is used, or that form of colour-blindness in which only one colour can be perceived), etc., etc. MonOCephalUS.—A type of double monster in which there are two bodies but only one head. Monochorea. — Chorea limited to one part, e.g. to one arm or one leg. See Chorea. Monochromatophilia. — The property of the normal red blood corpuscle, when fixed and stained by aniline dyes, by which it shows a marked affinity for a single acid stain; in diseased conditions the corpuscle loses this special affinity and may be stained by either the acid or the basic element or by both, and it is then said to be polychromatophilic. Monochromatopsia. — A form of colour-blindness in which the whole spectrum appears in shades of some one colour, e.g. green. See Colour Vision (Monochromatopsia). Monocular.—Belonging to one eye, e.g. monocular vision or monocular diplopia. MonOCUluS.—A teratological type in which there is only one eye. It is sometimes used as a synonym of cyclopia, but this is an incorrect use; the term, if employed at all, should be given only to foetuses in which there is one eye not in a central but in a lateral position. Monodactyly. — A teratological type in which the digits of the hand or foot are represented by a solitary finger or toe. MoncestrOUS. — A term applied to animals (mammals) in whom the reproductive life takes the form (apart from pregnancy) of a series of ancestrous cycles ; i.e. there is a cycle consisting of procestrum (" coming into season "), of oestrus (period of desire), of metoestrum