MICRO-ORGANISMS 395 of evil-smelling gases. Putrefaction occurs in complex dead vegetable and animal matter : the protein, which contains carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, sulphur, and phosphorus, being split up into ammonia, amines, indol, and skatol, containing the nitrogen and hydrogen sulphide, mercaptan, etc., containing the sulphur derived from the protein molecule. In putrefaction the medium often becomes alkaline (ammonia, etc.). The term fermentation is vulgarly applied to changes taking place in carbohydrate solutions. Owing to the formation of organic acids a fer- menting solution gives an acid reaction. A fermenting fluid often gives off an agreeable odour. The chief fermentations are the alcoholic, acetic, lactic, butyric, viscous, fatty, and am- moniacal fermentations. Other fermentations are those which result in nitrification and denitri- fication. These processes are accompanied by oxidation and reduction, the commonest change being that of hydration. Alcoholic fermentation is chiefly produced by yeasts; it may also be produced by moulds (mucor) or bacteria (intes- tinal bacteria—B. typhi, B. pneumoniae). After a certain amount of alcohol has been formed in the process of fermentation (the amount reached in beer fermentation is 5 per cent, in that of wine 10-15 per cent) the fermentation process ceases, the alcohol checking the further growth of the yeast. In alcoholic fermentation we have the following changes taking place :— Ci2H220n + H^O = C.H^^Oe + C^H^^O,. C6H,A = 2C2H,0 + ^CO,. The chief product is alcohol, the secondary products being CO2, aldehyde, higher alcohols (butyl, propyl, amyl alcohol), glycerine, acetic, succinic acid. E. Buchner has succeeded in proving that yeast cells contain a ferment capable when isolated of producing alcoholic fermentation. In the various industries con- siderable importance is attached to the utilisa- tion of definite species of yeasts, which yield the highest percentage of alcohol or the most desirable product. In bread-making, yeast and bacteria are added to the dough; the bacteria convert the starch into sugar, and the yeast converts the sugar into alcohol and CO.,, the gas distending the bread. In acetic acid fer- mentation we have alcohol oxidised to acetic acid according to the formula— CgHgO + 02 = C2H^02 + H/J. For this process free access of air is needed ; the amount of alcohol present must be under 15 per cent, the best temperature being 30°-35°C. After about 14 per cent acetic acid has been produced fermentation is checked by this pro- duct. A considerable number of bacteria are known which produce acetic acid (B. aceti, etc., pneumococcus ; B. lactis aerogenes, B. coli, etc.). In lactic acid fermentation glucose (CgHj20g) is converted into lactic acid (CjHyO.,) and other secondary products, such as alcohol, acetone, formic and acetic acids. Butyric acid fermenta- tion is usually produced by anaerobic organisms, the glucose being converted into butyric acid (C^HgOg), carbon dioxide, and hydrogen. Viscous or slimy fermentation occurs at times in milk, urine, beer, wine, and sugary solutions, a carbo- hydrate, dextran (C^Hj^O^), allied to dextrin, being formed, the medium becoming gelatinised. The capsules formed about Leuconostoc mesen- teroides, when grown in sugary solutions, are almost entirely composed of this substance, no capsules being evident when this organism is grown in sugar-free media. The fermentation occurring in fats results in their becoming rancid. In ammoniacal fermentation a process of hydration occurs, urea being broken up as follows :— C0(NH2), + H2O = COo -I- 2NH3; the products uniting to form ammonium carbonate. A fermentation process of great importance in nature is that which results in nitrification, whereby the useless nitrogen derived from living beings is converted into the useful nitrates, which are utilised by the plants in the soil. Nitrates are always the end products of the decomposition of animal matter in the presence of bases. Nitrates are formed in manure; they are the important constituents of guano and of commercial soda-saltpetre. The ammonia formed is oxidised to nitrous and nitric acids, and these combine with bases. In examining water suspected of being polluted with organic matter, one tests for nitrates and nitrites. The nitrifying bacteria are separated into two groups : the nitroso-bacteria, which form nitrous acid, giving rise to nitrites, and the nitro-bacteria, which oxidise nitrous to nitric acid, giving rise to nitrates. Certain bacteria denitrify, i.e. they exert an opposite effect. The products of bacteria depend for their amount upon the favourable or unfavourable conditions of medium, temperature, and vital activity of the particular micro-organism. The presence of antagonistic or other forms of bacteria will modify the growth and products of a given micro-organism. Some bacteria pro- duce acid, others alkali — these physiological differences being of use in the determination of the species. We have already seen how diff'erent the products are for diff'erent species, and considerable difl"erences may be observed in the growth and products of one and the same micro-organism in media of different constitution. As far as the experimental evidence goes, the accumulation of products checks the growth prior to the exhaustion of the medium, the growth ceasing owing to the amount of acid (0'8 per cent in lactic acid, 10 per cent in acetic