MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 187 in size from a cherry or less to an orange. The smooth outline of the cyst is often masked by inflammatory induration or condensation of the adjacent breast tissue, and, in consequence of the tension of the contents, fluctuation is often absent, the tumour feeling either firm and elastic, or even quite solid. Hence it is that the cyst is frequently mistaken either for a fibro-adenoma or for a scirrhus. It difi'ers from the former in that it moves along with, and not independently of, the breast, while from the latter it is distinguished by its less dense consistence, by the readiness with which the skin over it may be pinched up, and by the absence of glandular infection. In cases of doubt a diagnostic puncture with a grooved needle or exploring syringe will settle the question. Treatment. — The cyst may be opened, swabbed out with undiluted carbolic acid or tincture of iodine, and then stuffed with gauze. A more satisfactory, and at the same time a more rapid cure will, as a rule, be brought about by excision of the cyst followed by closure of the wound, in the manner already described under the treatment of multiple cystic disease. If the cyst be deep-seated and situated in the lower hemisphere, it may be excised by the retromammary route recommended by Gaillard Thomas. Tapping with a hydrocele trocar and cannula, followed by the injection of iodine or of a few drops of undiluted carbolic acid, is the only alternative treatment should the patient object to the use of the knife; and this is perhaps the best treatment when, to relieve the patient's anxiety, the surgeon is called upon to deal with one or more cysts which are compara- tively small and superficial. Hydatid cyst of the mamma is extremely rare. Cases have been reported by Astley Cooper, Bergmann, Delbet, and others. They have been met with between the ages of twenty and fifty. It is doubtful if they ever occur in the male breast. The cyst is usually unilocular, but one or two daughter cysts may be present. The tumour, which is at first small and pain- less, is generally discovered accidentally; it is rounded, smooth, freely movable, well defined, and of a firm elastic consistence. Fluctuation is rare, except when suppuration has occurred. The cyst enlarges very slowly and seldom attains a larger size than that of an orange; pregnancy does not necessarily increase the rate of growth. When left to itself the cyst usually suppurates, and it is then difficult to distinguish it from an ordinary abscess. Before suppuration the condition is almost certain to be mistaken either for a simple tumour or for an ordinary cyst. The best treatment is com- plete excision, cutting wide of the capsule. Neoplasms of the Mamma The most common of the simple tumours of the breast are the encapsulated growths, which are made up of tubular and acinous-like or irregular spaces, lined generally by a single layer of epithelium, and supported by a con- nective-tissue stroma in which the blood-vessels ramify. The relative proportion of the glandular and connective-tissue element varies greatly, and the stroma, which is almost invariably devoid of fat cells, may be fibrous and scanty or abundant and cellular. The epithelial tubes or spaces vary considerably in their arrange- ment ; they may be dilated into cysts into which a papilliform ingrowth may project. By some authors, among whom may be mentioned Gross, Labbe, and Coyne and Ziegler, the epithelial structures are looked upon as acci- dental ; these authors regard the connective tissue as the essential element of the tumours, which are described as jjericanalicular and infra- canalicular fibromata, according as the fibrous tissue develops around the epithelial spaces, or projects into them. Delbet, Schimmelbusch, and others regard the epithelial elements as the essential parts of the tumour ; they attribute the intracanalicular and intracystic ingrowths to a centrifugal outgrowth of the gland tubes, the result of proliferation of the epithelial lining. The writer, who looks upon both elements as of equal importance, agrees with Raymond Johnson in regarding all the different varieties of fibro-glandular growths as belong- ing essentially to the same type of tumour, to which the general name of fibro-adenoma is most appropriate. Much confusion has arisen from the circum- stance that growths which are essentially the same have been described under widely diffei'ent names by different writers. When the epi- thelial elements are scanty and embedded in a firm fibrous stroma, the tumour is spoken of as a hard fibro-adenoma; when, on the other hand, the fibrous stroma is abundant, soft, and relatively cellular, we have to do with a soft fibro-adenoma, and between these two varieties many intermediate forms are met with. Great variation occurs in the arrangement of the glandular elements, which may present the form of branching duct-like tubes, or of lobular collections of acinous-like spaces. The epithelial lining is generally in the form of a single or double layer of cubical or low columnar cells, placed on a more or less distinct basement membrane. Not infrequently the tubes are compressed and their lumen obliterated, so that they appear in the form of irregularly- branched thin columns of small, atrophied- looking, epithelial cells. In the soft and more rapidly grooving fibro- adenomata a mucoid fluid is generally secreted by the epithelial cells, and this may be sufficiently abundant to dilate the epithelial spaces into cysts, the tumour being then spoken of as a cysto-adenoma. Very frequently the cysts are more or less filled with branching