NEOF(ETUS 531 new-born infant (neonatus) stands between the foetus and the infant; the neofoetal period coincides with the second half of the second month of antenatal life {Ballantyne). Neon.—A chemical element recently dis- covered by Ramsay and Travers in atmospheric air. Neona.tUS.—The new-born infant, or the infant during the first month of life. Diseases peculiar to this neonatal period of life are called morbi neonatorum; e.g. icterus neonatorum (jaun- dice of the new-born), ophthalmia neonatorum (conjunctivitis of the new-born), etc. See New-born Infant (Diseases). Neopallium.—One of the three parts into which the cerebral hemisphere is some- times divided, the other two being the corpus striatum and the rhinencephalon (olfactory bulb and tract, septum lucidum, fornix, hippocampus, etc.); the neopallium, therefore, comprises al- most the whole of the convoluted cortex and the ■white matter associated with it, and its great ■development is peculiar to the human subject. Neopla.SITI.—A new growth or tumour. jSee Tumours. N eOS por i d i a.. —See Parasites (Protozoa). Nepenthe. — A preparation of opium, given in doses similar to those of laudanum. See Opium. Nephalism. — Entire abstinence from alcohol and intoxicants; teetotalism. It is derived from the Greek words vrjcjidXios, drink- ing no wine, and vj;<^a), to be sober. Nephralgia,.—Pain in the kidneys (Gr. ve<f>p6<;, kidney, and aXyos, pain). See Kidney, Surgical Affections of (Stone, etc.). Nephrectomy.—Excision of the kidney. See Kidney, Surgical Affections of (Tuber- culosis, Operative Procedures). Nephridium. — The excretory organ of some invertebrates; also, the suprarenal capsule. Nephritis. Introduction 531 Renal Inadequacy . . . .532 Morbid Anatomy op Nephritis . . 532 Acute Nephritis . . . .532 Acute Nephritis after Scarlet Fever . 533 Chronic Nephritis .... 533 Renal Cirrhosis . . . .534 Etiology 535 Clinical Features of Different Types— Acute Nephritis . . . .538 Acute Nephritis after Scarlet Fever . 540 Clinical Features of Different Types (contd.) Chronic Nephritis . . . .541 Abnormal Types .... 543 Renal Cirrhosis .... 544 General Diagnosis in Nephritis . . 547 General Prognosis ... 550 Treatment ...... 552 Of Acute Nephritis .... 552 Of Acute Nephritis after Scarlet Fever 553 Chronic ...... 554 Renal Cirrhosis .... 554 See also Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth (Labyrinthine Deafness from Chronic Nephritis); Burns and Scalds (Pathology, Nephritis); Chlorosis (Diagnosis); Conjunctiva, Diseases of (Various Conditions, Chemosis in Chronic Bright's Disease); Diabetes Mellitus (Termina- tion, Association with Nephritis); Eclampsia (Pathological Anatomy); Gastro-intestinal liDisoRDERS OP Infancy (Chronic Diarrhea, Complications); H^ematuria ; Heart, Affec- tions OF Myocardium and Endocardium (Effects of Cardiac Disease); Kidney, Physiology of ; Kidney, Surgical Affections of ; Lardaceous Degeneration (Amyloid Kidney); Leprosy {Clinical Features in Tubercular Leprosy); Liver, Diseases of (Weil's Disease); Liver, Tropical Affections of (Perihepatitis, Diag- nosis) ; Lungs, Gangrene of (Predisposing Causes); Meninges of the Cerebrum (Acute Meningitis, Etiology); Milk (Koumiss Cure in Nephritis); Mumps (Complications); Pemphigus (Complications); PuLSE; Purpura (Symptomatic, Toxic); Respiration (Cheyne-Stoites Breathing in Urcemia) ; Retina and Optic Nerve (Changes in Retinal Blood- Vessels, in Kidney Disease); Rheumatism, Acute (Symptoms and Course, Renal Affections); Toxicology (Chronic Lead Poisoning); Trades, Dangerous (Lead Poison- ing) ; Typhoid Fever (Complications and Sequelae); Typhus Fever (Complications); Uraemia ; Urine, Pathological Changes in (Phosphates, Albuminuria, Nanthin Bases); Urine, Bacteria in (Nephritis). Nephritis includes several forms of acute and chronic structural disease of the kidney, com- monly associated with albuminuria and dropsy, with urgemic symptoms, and other results of the interference with the normal work of the kidney. Albuminuria may occur in other con- ditions, as in congestion, the result of heart or lung disease, or in obstruction due to emboli; it is also common in numerous febrile conditions, while perhaps it is most frequent in the various functional forms of albuminuria to which the names physiological, dietetic, cyclical, etc. have been applied. In these functional forms albu- minuria may be a prelude to chronic kidney disease, but, as a rule, no serious trouble ensues. In these conditions there is seldom any inter- ference with eliminative woi-k; more definite structural changes, which produce such inter-