366 MESENCEPHALON Mesencephalon. — The midbrain. See Embryology (^Development of Brain). Mesenchyme.—The parts of the body derived from the mesoderm in which the cells are scattered in a matrix of non-cellular material (e.g. cartilage, bone), as distinguished from mesothelium, in which the cells (derived from the mesoderm) are arranged in a definite layer or layers. MesenteritiS. — Inflammation of the mesentery. Mesentery: Mesenteric Glands. See also Abdomen, Injuries op {Lesions of Mesentery); Abdominal Aneurysm {Mesenteric Arteries); Appendix Vermiformis {Results of Infectioii); Ascites {Causation); Children, Clinical Examination of {Abdomen, Mesenteric Glands); Hydatid Disease {Abdominal); Intes- tines, Diseases of {A^iatomy); Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Movable Kidney, Diagnosis); Lymphatic System {Glands); Ovaries, Diseases OF {Tumours, Diagnosis); Peritoneum ; Post- mortem Methods {Examination of Body Cavi- ties) ; Tuberculosis {Morbid Anatomy, Glands); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequelce); Veins, Diseases of. Mesenteric Glands.—These glands lie between the layers of the mesentery and round the trunk of the superior mesenteric artery; they receive lacteals from the small intestines and colon as far as the sigmoid flexure, and their eff'erent vessels join those of the coeliac glands to form an intestinal lymphatic trunk opening into the thoracic duct. The coeliac glands surround the coeliac axis and the aorta above the superior mesenteric artery, and are concerned with the functions of the stomach, upper part of the duodenum, etc. {see "Lymphatic System, Pathology of," p. 99). It cannot be too strongly emphasised that a diseased state of these glands represents a vital reaction of the gland to a specific instant rather than a disease of the gland in the ordinary sense of that term. Hence the importance of a know- ledge of the structure and functions of lymph- glands already given in this volume {vide ante), where the author has clearly indicated the manner in which that function is altered by the access of various pathogenic agents. Of these, by far the most important is the tubercle bacillus. Tuberculosis of the mesenteric glands, or, as it is sometimes designated, tabes mesen- terea, is of frequent occurrence especially in children. When present in older subjects it is usually accompanied by involvement of the peritoneum ; but in children it is quite common to find pronounced disease in the glands with little or no affection of the peritoneum, and no apparent lesion in the intestinal mucous mem- brane. There is no doubt that the tubercle bacilli frequently find their way to the mesen- teric glands via the alimentary canal without leaving any trace of their track. A present desideratum, however, is a record of the exact histological appearances of the mucous and sub- mucous coats in these cases; it is more than likely that distinct evidence of local reaction (increase of lymphoid tissue, etc.) would be demonstrated at the parts which had given access to the bacilli. Clinical Features.—Snhjective symptoms may be very slight or, indeed, absent in the earlier stages of the disease, but as a rule some evidence of ill-health has been noted for a varying period. An unnatural peevishness, a capricious digestion, and a diminution in the mental and physical vigour of the child are the symptoms usually observed by the parent. As the condition ad- vances it may be noticed that the abdomen is slightly enlarged, and the child manifests indi- cations of discomfort or pain when the abdomen is handled. Accompanying this, there are in- dications of abnormal intestinal action, notably constipation or diarrhoea; an examination of the stools showing evidence of deficient digestion and abnormal fermentation in the intestinal contents. If the condition be progressive, all the subjective symptoms become intensified, and the condition of the stools becomes par- ticularly pronounced. The objective symptoms are very slight in the earlier stages of the disease. The child may appear out of sorts, and nothing more may be indicated. At this stage it is especially important that a frequent examination of the stools be made. An excess of mucus, the presence of undigested food, and marked foetor from abnormal decomposition will indicate the existence of a marked local weakness which is full of significance to the trained observer. When the disease becomes more pronounced the physical signs in the abdomen are unmistakable. Their severity will depend {a) on the presence or absence of pressure of the glandular masses on the portal vessels, and {b) on the co-existence of involvement of the peritoneum. If definite obstruction exists, ascites with marked disten- sion of the superficial abdominal veins will be a feature. In some cases the fluid is more or less encysted, due to the presence of adhesions which complicate the diagnosis. In the early stages a physical examination of the abdomen may reveal nothing but a slight undue prominence of the abdomen, which feels abnormally resistant on superficial and deep palpation. At this stage examination under an antesthetic is of the utmost service; this sometimes reveals a few deep-seated enlarged glands. It is also ad- visable at this stage to make a rectal examina- tion on an empty bowel, as this may be of service in demonstrating the existence of glands not otherwise readily detected. As the con- ditions become more marked, the rigid doughy feeling of the abdomen, which is the most