447 ALLIED DRUG HABITS MORPHINOMANIA AND formation of abscesses and ulcers at the site of puncture. This is almost invariable sooner or later, as the familiarity which breeds care- lessness leads to the use of dirty, uncleansed needles. This indeed, in the case of the gentle- man already mentioned, who used newspaper to cover the punctures, was the immediate cause of death, for though broken off his morphia he developed vague symptoms, with an erratic febrile temperature, ending in pulmonary com- plications, jaundice, and death. A post-mortem examination revealed a large foetid abscess in the region of the tail of the pancreas. This had burrowed into the spleen, and opened into the colon. There were scores of small abscesses, varying in size from a pin's head to a large pea, scattered throughout the sub- stance of the liver, and a similar condition in both lungs, together with large areas of consolidation. Another accident which frequently happens is the injection of the drug directly into a vein. The symptoms that follow this accident are striking and so alarming that it may not be out of place to give them here. In about thirty seconds an intense tingling sensation is ex- perienced in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, soon accompanied by profuse sweat- ing and intense throbbing, first over the forehead then over the whole head, with excruciating pain, as if the skull would burst asunder. The face becomes first deeply flushed, then cyanosed and swollen ; the eyes fixed, staring, and blood- shot ; the pupils are generally dilated as if over- stimulation had paralysed the ciliary nerve of the pupil sphincter. The action of the heart is then rapid, irregular, and feeble, and the breathing rapid and very shallow, as the least sigh seems to aggravate the intense cerebral pain. These symptoms last about fifteen to twenty minutes, varying with the amount of the dose, then gradually pass off. Though the patient may have experienced the symptoms several times, and be quite aware of what has happened, they cause the greatest alarm to him and to any one who may be witness of them. It is said by some that the morphinomaniac becomes not merely a bodily and mental wreck, but also a striking moral wreck. I believe that this statement is much too sweeping. It is granted that many, if not all, when the drug is withheld, will go almost any length to obtain it. Coleridge hired men to prevent him from getting opium, and dismissed them if they did their duty. He put himself under medical care to be cured of his vice, and pretended to be getting better, but all the time procured laudanum by stealth. There are plenty of instances of highly pious and honourable persons who, having become addicted to the drug, descended to lying, stealing, and cheating in order to obtain it; but if we look on that as part and parcel of their vice, we need not strip them of every shred of morality they ever had. It may not be said of all, but I believe it can be said of some: They were born gentlemen, they will die gentlemen, no matter to what depth of misfortune they have fallen. The next and most important consideration is the treatment. Can these unfortunates be saved 1 They can, but the chances are against them. Foot says: " Emancipation from morphin-slavery is unattainable by voluntary effort." " Jaeckel is unaware of any successful case of self-treatment in morphinism, and does not advocate its being attempted, even in the case of medical men." Besides the case mentioned by Blair, I have only found one other case attested, viz., that of a chemist, who had taken up to 60 grains of morphia a day; he gave it up in October 1880, and in October 1890 was still free, never having taken it in the meantime.^ It is obvious, therefore, we must assist them to do what they cannot do them- selves. We must never forget the fiery ordeal, the terrible battle they have to fight before they can gain deliverance. The wretchedness and enfeeblement of mind and body will need unfailing sympathy, firmness, gentleness, and tact on the part both of physician and attendants to enable them to bear up and fight a victorious battle. Of the methods there are two which may pass without consideration: the deceptive, which is puerile; the substitution, which is culpable. Cocaine is the drug which has been most used as a substitute for morphia. Erlenmeyer, who has had a very large experience, comes to the following conclusions : (1) that it does not stop the morphia craving; (2) that its effect is very transitory, lasting only from 12 to 25 minutes; (3) that cocaine is a real substitute for morphia, and not an antidote; (4) that it should not be given, as its effect is so temporary and its use dangerous, and very liable to develop a habit which is worse than morphinism. The other methods of demorphinisation, as Charcot calls it, consist in simply withholding the drug in one of three ways: (1) the abrupt or Levinstein's^ method ; (2) the rapid or Erlenmeyer"s method ; and (3) the gradual method. Whether the habit lias been of long or short duration, the withdrawal of the drug is followed by a train of symptoms classically known as abstinenz symptonie. In some cases they are much more severe, and appear with greater rapidity than in others. Some persons endure them quietly with silent fortitude, others with abject and apathetic despair; but most patients exhibit constant restlessness, tramping excitedly up and down the room, wringing their hands, shouting, moaning, bewailing, entreating for the drug which alone can allay their sufferings. 1 British Medical Journal, 1890, vol. i. p. H70. ^ Of the Schbmberg Insane Asylum, Berlin.