MOUTH—INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE JAW 462 fractured jaw. As nearly all fractures of the jaw are compound, there is usually present some degree of septic inflammation. Occasionally the septic process is confined to some space and may lead to the formation of an abscess. Where the inflammation is extensive, more or less necrosis of the lower jaw may result. It is very unusual for the inferior dental nerve to be injured; it may be torn, however, at the time of the accident, and occasionally neuralgia may develop some time after the accident owing to pressure exerted by the repairing bone upon the nerve. Where the violence has been very great there may be a dislocation of the lower jaw as well as the fracture. Treatment.—Innumerable methods for treat- ing fractures of the jaw have been described. In all cases, however, there are certain principles of treatment, whatever the accident and situa- tion of the fracture may be, and these principles must be most carefully adhered to. (1) Great care must be taken to reduce the displacement, and special attention must be directed towards restoring the normal position of the teeth. This restoration of the " bite" is most important, and every care should be taken to obtain it. (2) Every effort should be made to get the mouth and its contents as clean as possible. The teeth should be thoroughly cleaned and, if necessary, scaled, so that no trace of tartar should be left, for this is a favourite nidus for decomposition. The tongue should be kept clean by scraping. In order to keep the mouth clean, antiseptic mouth-washes should be fre- quently employed. In cases where there is marked decomposition, insufflation of iodoform powder is the best agent. (3) Absolute rest of the lower jaw is necessary for rapid and accurate union. Whatever method may have been employed to fix the broken ends, it is necessary to forbid the patient to speak or to use the jaw for masticating purposes. In order to feed the patient it is convenient to fix an india-rubber tube on to a feeding cup, and to put the tube into the mouth beyond the last molar tooth, unless there is a gap in the front part of the mouth, where a tooth has been lost, through which the tube can be very conveniently passed. The various methods that have been employed to maintain the broken fragments in their proper position can be classified under four principal methods, viz., bandaging, splints, ligature of teeth, and wiring of the fragments. (1) Bandages. — In simple uncomplicated fractures a four-tailed bandage is generally sufficient to keep the fragments at rest and in apposition. It is made by taking a piece of strong calico or other bandage, one yard in length and four inches in width, with a small slit in the centre for the chin to rest in. Each end of the bandage is cut up to within three inches of the centre of the slit. Having placed the slit over the chin, the two lower portions of the bandage are tied over the vertex, and the two vipper ones well above the occipital pro- tuberance. To prevent slipping they may be tied together. In fractures of the lower jaw union is rapid, and towards the end of the third week slight movement "^ay often be allowed; but no mastication shoii^d be permitted until the beginning of the sixth week. (2) Splints.—A large number of splints have been devised to keep the fragments in proper position. Of the external splints the gutta- percha trough is often employed. The objection to this splint is that it may serve as a reservoir for the decomposing discharges and saliva from the mouth. When employed it must be cleansed and readjusted frequently. It is made by taking a piece of gutta-percha, about three inches broad, and of sufficient length to extend from the angle of the jaw on one side to that on the opposite side, and by bisecting it to within three inches of the centre on each side. By immersion in hot water, so as to make it soft, it is bent into the shape and accurately fitted to the jaw. A hole is cut to receive the chin. It is then lined with boracic lint and kept in position by a four-tailed bandage. There are various forms of external splints which it is not necessary to describe. There are various forms of splints used within the mouth, and among the best of these is the inter-dental wire splint, or some modification of it, devised by Hammond. Although this method is so excel- lent, it is never likely to be largely used by surgeons unless the assistance of a dentist is obtained; because, in order to make a success- ful wire splint, a considerable practical acquaint- ance with mechanical dentistry is necessary. The method may be best described by dividing it into five stages :— Stage 1. The teeth must be thoroughly cleansed of all tartar; any decayed focus cleared out and the cavity temporarily filled. The mouth must be free from mucus and saliva as much as possible and washed out with a suitable lotion. Stage 2. A wax impression is then taken of the teeth with the fragments replaced in their normal position. Stage 3. A plaster-of-Paris cast is made from this wax impression. Stage 4. The piece of iron wire is placed around the row of teeth; at first in front of the row, then bending it round the last molar tooth on each side, and taking it round the back of the row of teeth, and then soldering the two ends of the wire together. Great attention must be paid to bending and hammer- ing the wire so that it fits correctly the line of teeth. Stage 5. The wire frame is now removed from the plaster cast and placed in the mouth.