NEPHRITIS 549 little in excess of the normal quantity, while the colour is almost invariably lighter than usual; in the later stages, when attacks of acute engorgement may occur, the alterations in quantity and in appearance usually leave no doubt about the nature of the case. It is very rare for febrile albuminuria to cause any difficulty of diagnosis. The existence of high temperature, and the coexistence of scanty, high-coloured water depositing urates, usually afford fair presumptive evidence for considering that the albuminuria is merely symptomatic of the febrile state. This pre- sumption is further strengthened if the amount of albumin appears to bear any relation to the height of fever. Sometimes it increases as the temperature rises, and diminishes with defer- vescence of the temperature. If after complete defervescence albumin is still found to be present, it may cause further anxiety, unless the case is one of diphtheria, when small traces seem to result from diphtheritic poison, rather than from organic renal changes, or from the febrile state. The microscopic examination of the sediment sometimes affords valuable assist- ance to the diagnosis; the detection of crystals of oxalates, or of knife-rest crystals of phos- phates will often favour a diagnosis of accidental or functional albuminuria; while, on the other hand, the presence of casts requires very careful consideration, since they may be found in cases of functional albuminuria, while they are fre- quently absent in cases of chronic cirrhosis. Hyaline casts of small size are those which are of least diagnostic importance, while granular and oily casts, especially if fairly numerous and of large size, may indicate chronic nephi-itis or cirrhosis. In every case it is necessary to consider associated symptoms and physical signs affect- ing the circulatory, the respiratory, the diges- tive, and the nervous systems. Chronic forms of nephritis and of cirrhosis are, as a rule, attended by changes in the sounds of the heart and in the position of the apex beat. The area of cardiac dulness is generally in- creased, the apex beat displaced outwards, the extent of displacement frequently bearing dis- tinct relation to the duration of the albuminuria. Both sounds of the heart are modified; the first sound, though it may be somevvhat faint and indistinct, is mostly booming, exaggerated, and somewhat prolonged in character. The second sound at the base is accentuated and somewhat reduplicated, but both the sounds and the hypertrophy are essentially indicative of chronic nephritis and of cirrhosis. When met with in connection with lardaceous disease of the kidney, these changes in the position of the apex beat and in the sounds of the heart are indicative of an associated nephritis. The pulse of chronic nephritis and of renal cirrhosis shows an increase of arterial tension, being wiry or resisting, while the pulse tracing is generally characterised by the breadth of the tidal wave and the distance of the dicrotic notch from the upstroke. Information of any diagnostic importance is rarely to be obtained from consideration of changes in the respiratory system. If the patient is the subject of chronic broncliitis or of chronic emphysema, very little value may attach to small traces of albumin in the water, especially if these are found to vary with the condition of the lung; but it is sometimes difficult in asthmatic conditions to determine whether the albuminuria exists as a consequence or as a cause. When it occurs as the cause, the urine is mostly of low specific gravity and of a pale colour, and the quantity of albumin is generally small. On the other hand, if the albuminuria is the result of lung engorgement, the urine is more commonly reduced in quantity and its colour is deepened. In every case of albuminuria, the condition of the alimentary system deserves attention. This naturally follows from what has been said of the dietetic forms of albuminuria, and the inability of some patients to take certain articles of diet without the production of albumin in the water. On the other hand, digestive dis- turbances may arise in connection with chronic kidney disease, either as a sequel to the disease, or as a determining cause of chronic nephritis. The chronic dyspepsia of advanced cirrhosis is well recognised, and is marked by its intract- able character, by the occasional tendency to vomiting, and sometimes by sudden and severe diarrhoea. Valuable assistance may sometimes be gathered from the nature of the skin either in respect of colour or of structure. The ansemia of chronic nephritis contrasts markedly with the reddish-brown tinge which is often seen in renal cirrhosis. The ansemia is often associ- ated with dropsical effusions, and it is by no means unusual to find slight conditions of oedema about the eyelids, and to notice that the features appear larger than usual. The frequency of a watery appearance of the con- junctiva in cases of chronic nephritis must be familiar to every practitioner. On the other hand, the reddish discoloration of renal cirrhosis may depend upon the causation, and will fre- quently furnish ground for further inquiries. Subcutaneous haemorrhages may sometimes be found over the lower extremities, but these are comparatively rare except in advanced stages of the disease, in which there is no question of the diagnosis. Thus, also, with the conditions of extreme oedema affecting the lower extremities ; these are more frequently to be met with in connection with chronic nephritis than with renal cirrhosis. In some cases of doubt, the appearance of syphilitic eruption or cicatrices, or of syphilitic diseolorations of the skin, may indicate the probability of lardaceous disease;