NEPHRITIS 548 mode of life of the proposer. Whenever any conflict of opinion arises, it is best to state in detail the tests employed with the results that have been obtained, and to endeavour to get the medical attendant to examine under precisely similar conditions. If it is possible, with the aid of the medical attendant, to form a diagnosis, cases of slight albuminuria occurring amongst young men may be dealt with, a small extra premium being charged on account of this abnormality, even though the case must be attributed to one or other of the functional forms of albuminuria. When dealing with individuals of greater age, it is necessary to be very much more cautious before expressing an opinion that the case is one of functional or intermittent albuminuria, and as the precautions which have to be adopted are practically the same whether the case is one which is being examined for life assurance or whether it is a patient who requires advice, it will be advisable to discuss the diagnostic indications more fully, although it is convenient to discuss the importance of each of the diag- nostic features separately; but it must be understood that in practice all these diagnostic features must be considered collectively, and due weight assigned to the indications derived from each. With regard to the persistency of the albu- minuria, it is necessary to test the water from day to day, and at different hours of the day, and if albumin is always found to be present, there is a strong presumption in favour of the existence of some form of Bright's disease amongst patients of middle age, though the possibility of a functional albuminuria must be kept in mind when dealing with younger patients. In most cases of functional albu- minuria the specific gravity is relatively high. Those which are commonly met with amongst young men, candidates for appointments, or for life assurance, usually have a specific gravity of 1025 or upwards; while on the other hand, where the amount of albumin is the same, there is fair presumptive evidence of chronic renal affection if the specific gravity is low, unless the low specific gravity is found to be an exceptional occurrence. Small traces of albumin may some- times be due to congestion of the kidney from heart disease, or from some other cause lead- ing to venous engorgement, such as advanced chronic bronchitis or emphysema; sometimes a faint cloud may be found in connection with febrile conditions, such as pneumonia. The albuminuria of heart disease, or of other forms of engorgement, generally varies considerably from day to day, and the urine is mostly scanty, of high colour, and high specific gravity. It is always necessary not only to ascertain that the albumin is permanent, but also that the amount is fairly constant; it must be remembered, how- ever, that in many cases of renal cirrhosis the amount of albumin varies from day to day, and, indeed, that the urine may sometimes be entirely free from albumin. In such patients, however, the pale straw colour is characteristic, while the specific gravity will also furnish material assist- ance. In broad terms it may be stated that in most cases of transient, temporary, or functional albuminuria the quantity of albumin is relatively small, while the colour and the specific gravity may be normal or above normal. If the albumin is found to be intermittent instead of persistent, no certainty of diagnosis can be founded upon this fact alone, since in some cases of chronic interstitial nephritis the urine that is passed on first rising, before food has been taken, may be found wholly free from albumin. In the same way, as indications of diagnosis, little reliance can be placed upon variations in the appearance of albumin with alterations of external tempera- ture. In many cases of functional albuminuria, it is true that this symptom occurs only with sudden changes of temperature, either with a sudden access of warm weather or with sudden exposure to cold, yet in the early stages of some cases of mild nephritis the same holds good. The influence of cold and damp in increasing the amount of albumin in cases of scarlatinal nephritis has already been referred to. It is occasionally necessary to ascertain whether re- cumbency in bed has any influence on the presence of albumin in the water. This question has been repeatedly dealt with by Dr. Clement Dukes of Rugby, and he seems to have satis- factorily proved that there is good reason for believing that mere alterations of posture may, by altering the strain upon the capillaries of the Malpighian tufts, cause albuminuria in other- wise healthy individuals. Grainger Stewart held that when albuminuria is found to occur only after meals, or with changes of attitude, or with more or less severe muscular exertion, under mental excitement, or after cold bathing, it may be concluded with certainty that the process is functional. Although this generalisa- tion may hold good for a large number of cases, it must be admitted that numerous other factors require to be considered before adopting such a sanguine view. In any case of doubt it is always advisable to determine accurately the total quantity of water passed in the twenty-four hours. In cases of functional albuminuria there is mostly no alteration in the quantity, while in those chronic forms of kidney disease which are most likely to cause hesitation in forming a diagnosis, the quantity is usually somewhat greater, or even considerably in excess of the normal amount, and the patient is disturbed by nocturnal micturition. Patients with lardaceous disease mostly pass a large quantity of pale urine; and the amount and the appearance vary according to the stage of the complaint. In the early stages of renal cirrhosis the amount may be but