NEPHRITIS 532 ference, are included under the comprehensive term of nephritis. To express imperfect elimination the term "renal inadequacy" has been employed. It is somewhat unfortunate that this term has been used in two different senses. Sir Andrew Clark [Brit. Med. Joiirn., 1884) described a class of cases in which, although the kidney pre- sented no alteration of structure, it was unable to produce a perfectly healthy urine. In these the urine is low in density and deficient in solids; he considered that with this renal inadequacy there is a curious inability to repair damage by accident or disease, and that there is great uncertainty as to the result of the per- formance of an ordinary surgical operation. This form of inadequacy is often regarded as an early pre-albuminuric stage of renal cirrhosis. In another variety the same term has been used to denote an imperfect elimination of fluid, with resulting concentration ; in these, cardiac hyper- trophy is absent, but there is marked myo- cardial weakness and disturbance of the digestive system, symptoms which correspond with hysteri- cal anuria, though it may perhaps have to be regarded as due to nephritis following lithiasis. Morbid Anatomy of Nephritis The morbid anatomy of nephritis may be the more conveniently studied if we remember that the different structures of the kidney may frequently be affected independently, and that when different structures are concurrently affected, the extent to which each part is involved is liable to great variations. Thvis the tubules and their epithelium, which together constitute the parenchyma of the kidney, some- times show the most marked alterations, and this is especially seen in most of the acute forms of kidney disease. In chronic conditions the interstitial tissue, which in the healthy kidney is only present in small quantity, may increase considerably as the result of inflammatory processes; and, thirdly, the blood-vessels and the glomeruli appear liable to separate attection, and, indeed, the epithelial cells, which coat the capillaries of the glomerulus, have been de- scribed as undergoing an inflammatory process, which, for some authors, constitutes the primary and perhaps the most important change. Acute Nephritis Syn.—Acute desquamative nephritis, acute tubal nephritis, acute parenchymatous nephritis, acute Bright's disease. In acute nephritis the primary changes are undoubtedly connected with the tubules and glomeruli, and these changes are found to be fairly constant when the kidney is examined microscopically, although the size, shape, and general appearance of the kidney are largely dependent upon the stage the disease has reached when death occurs. Sometimes the kidney is very little larger than the normal, the cortex is of a dark colour, and the glomeruli stand out as minute pale spots. Sometimes the kidney is increased considerably in size ; it may indeed be swollen to almost twice its normal bulk. It then has a more rounded appearance than usual; the capsule can be separated easily, and the surface is pale. On section, the increase in size is found to be due mainly to an increase in the thickness of the cortex, which is of a greyish-red colour, while the central portions, the pyramids, are of a deeper red, owing to the congestion of their vessels. Frequently, both on the surface and on section, bright red spots are found. Sometimes these are due to minute haemorrhages, sometimes to engorgement of the glomeruli. In the third variety of acute nephritis the degree of congestion is very much greater, so that the colour is dark red or brown, and on section the kidneys have been described as "dripping with blood." On examination microscopically changes are found in the tubes, in the interstitial tissue, and in the glomeruli. The change within the tubes mostly consists in a peculiar opaque appearance of the epithelial cells; these may be swollen or granular, or they may be filled with fat granules, and they frequently tend to separate readily from the wall of the tubule. The lumen is often obliterated by debris of altered epithelial cells, leucocytes, and coagu- lated albuminous fluid; and sometimes the tubules appear to be blocked with a compact mass of blood corpuscles. Hyaline, epithelial, and blood casts are often seen, both in the cortex and in the looped tubules of the pyramids. When the kidneys are large it is frequently found that leucocytes have exuded, and have been accompanied by an inflammatory fluid; these exudations are most marked near the Malpighian capsules. The glomerular changes, upon which some authors lay great stress, have been described as a form of capsulitis. The capsule is distended by a finely granular mass, enclosing numerous small nuclei, and sometimes haemorrhages occur within the capsule. Klebs, Klein, and Greenfield consider that the nuclei of the capillary tufts in the glomerulus pro- liferate, and that this proliferation is accom- panied by an excessive growth of nuclei within the capsule, which leads to adhesion between it and the glomerulus, and ultimately to com- pression and atrophy of the latter. These lesions are sometimes limited to a few of the glomeruli, but they have been also described as affecting a very large proportion of them. This condition has been termed glomerular nephritis, and it appears to be most common in the form of acute nephritis consecutive to scarlet fever. In such cases the lesions within the tubules have been considered to be secondary to the- abolition of the work of the glomerulus.