FORENSIC 245 MEDICINE, cicatrices, while tattoo marks also, which have been produced by the introduction of insoluble pigments into the true skin, are also regarded as permanent, thus affording valuable evidence of identification. The determination of the identity of living persons is a matter for the police officer, except in rare instances where medical evidence is required on points relating to the presence or absence of cicatrices and disappearance of tattoo marks or deformities. The identification of criminals is now carried out in most countries in a systematic manner by means of Bertillon's method, which consists chiefly in taking and classifying certain measure- ments in each prisoner, e.g. the length and breadth of the head, the length of the left forefinger, forearm, and foot; or, secondly, by Galton's method of taking finger-prints, or im- pressions in ink of the patterns formed by the minute markings of the superficial layer of skin. Such patterns are constant and permanent throughout life, and differ in every individual. A combination of Bertillon's and Galton's system probably affords the best and most certain results. The Signs of Death.—The changes which occur in the body after death, or, as they have been called, the signs of death, are of great practical importance, not, however, inasmuch as they afford evidence of the actual existence of death, but because, from a careful consideration of the phenomena which occur in the body after death, we are enabled to solve or explain many questions of great moment and medico-legal significance. The determination of the existence of death need offer no difficulties to a medical man. The absolute cessation of respiration and of the heart's action for a period of five minutes be- tokens death. Only cases of the most profound syncope, and possibly of asphyxia, give rise to any doubt, which, however, can be set at rest by the use of the stethoscope. So-called cases of burial alive rest upon slender evidence, and are impossible where the existence of death has been certified by a properly qualified medical man. Changes in the position of limbs, hsemor- rhage from wounds, etc., and the expulsion of the contents of the pregnant uterus after death, are phenomena easily explained by physical laws. The consideration of the post-mortem changes, viz., loss of temperature, rigidity, hypostasis, putrefaction, which take place in a body, is chiefly of importance in helping us to decide the question which constantly arises in medico-legal practice—How long has a body been dead % and also because a careful study of the various phenomena helps us to explain many appear- ances which are liable to give rise to erroneous opinions. Loss of temperature or post-mortem cooling of the body.—Except in a few cases in which the temperature has been observed to rise for a limited period after death (tetanus, cholera, brain affections) the body at once commences to lose its heat when life departs. In other words, the body being now inanimate matter obeys ordinary physical laws and assumes the tempera- ture of the medium in which it is placed. As a rule, at the ordinary temperature of a house this reduction in temperature is accomplished in the course of about fifteen to twenty hours; but the rate of cooling is influenced greatly by the surrounding conditions, e.g. the amount of clothing or coverings on the body, the tempera- ture of the air, whether it has been lying in a room or exposed to the open air, etc. Immersion in cold water naturally causes rapid cooling, and hence marked coldness of the body has been described as a characteristic sign in death by drowning. Persons who die suddenly while in robust health, also those who are stout, cool less quickly than the lean and emaciated, and persons who have died from exhausting diseases. The very young and the aged cool more rapidly than adults. If a body still retains some body-heat, we can only give an opinion that death was recent, and fix approximately the time of its occurrence. Rigor Mortis — post-mortem rigidity. — Im- mediately after death occurs all the muscles in the body become flaccid, the lower jaw falls, the sphincters relax, the limbs are perfectly mobile. Somatic death has occurred, but the tissues still retain vitality, e.g. the muscles react to electrical stimuli, the glycogenic function of the liver continues, and, as seen in cases of judicial hanging, the heart may continue beating for half an hour even after complete division of the spinal cord and all the internal structures of the neck. Gradually, however, molecular death, or death of the tissues, takes place, and is ushered in by a stiffening or rigidity of all the muscles in the body, voluntary and involuntary —so called rigor mortis. This change comes on, as a rule, in from three to six hours after death, and is due to coagulation of the myosin, and possibly also to an influence of the nervous system. The muscles become firm and stiff; they stand out as when strained in exertion, and also contract to some extent. Rigor mortis comes on gradually, and usually attacks the muscles in the following order : the lower jaw and neck, the trunk, upper limbs, and, lastly, the lower limbs. It passes off in the same order after lasting for a varying period of time, usually twenty-four to seventy-two hours ; but sometimes it may be present for only an hour or two, or, again, may last for many days. As a rule, it may be said that the earlier it comes on the more quickly it disappears in any individual case. Rigor mortis has been termed the death-