217 MASTURBATION or a strong antimonial ointment applied to the penis and fore-skin may be useful, but there is always the risk of fresh irritation being set up by the after sensation of itching in the healing process. In boys at school it is a good plan to sew up the trousers' pockets. As to drugs, bromides, either alone or in conjunction with cannabis indica or other sedative, may be service- able, but on the whole more is to be expected from general tonic remedies. (See also " Vice.") Match-Making. See Toxicology {Phosphorus); Trades, Dangerous {Phosphorus and Lucifer Match-Making). Mat6.—Paraguay tea, prepared from the leaves of Ilex paragiiayensis, contains caffeine (J per cent). Materia Medica.—The science which treats of the characters of drugs, of their preparation, their action, their use, and their dosage. See Pharmacology ; Prescribing ; and under the various drugs themselves {e.g. Arsenicum, etc.). Materies Morbi. — The substantial cause of a disease. Maternal Impressions. See also Heredity {Telegony). Historical Note. — The notion that emotions and mental states of the mother during preg- nancy may so affect the foetus in her womb as to impress on it or in it structural alterations which closely simulate the maternal impressions, is of great antiquity and of practically world- wide distribution. At first it was not advanced as a theory of causation of monstrosities, but simply as a means of explaining the differences of colour of the skins of the young of men and animals. For instance, the reader needs scarcely to be reminded of the narrative of Jacob and the peeled white strakes on the rods which were put before the flocks when they conceived at the water-troughs; " the flocks brought forth ring-straked, speckled, and spotted." The theory or belief was also con- veniently advanced to explain the birth of a black child to a white mother and a putative white father: the mother had been lookins: at the picture of a Moor ! In the next place, the notion was accepted as the sokition of the origin of mother's marks or nsevi; that Hippocrates held this belief is, however, doubtful, for the treatise in which the statement occurs {De Superfoetatione) is generally regarded now as the work of another hand. Later, the maternal- impression theory was accepted as a possible explanation of the birth of hairy infants—the mother had been intently gazing during her pregnancy at the picture of John the Baptist in his hairy garment. Finally, it came to be applied, and in most ingenious ways, to account for almost every kind of anomaly, malformation, and monstrosity. During the sixteenth, seven- teenth, and eighteenth centuries the idea of the potency of maternal impressions underwent some interesting expansions and variations. It was thought, for instance, that if the mother at the moment of the impression touched a part of her body the foetus in her womb would show at birth the mark on the part of its body corre- sponding to that touched by her; this was chirapsy, and the woman was advised to be wise and always touch a part which was naturally concealed by the clothes! But it was also believed that the impression might sometimes be counteracted altogether; and Svvammerdam, in 1672, related how a clever woman, who had unfortunately seen a negro in her pregnancy, in order to save her infant from being black, washed herself in warm water, with the result, nearly if not quite satisfactory, that the infant was born white all over save in the spaces between the fingers and toes and in the grooves of the face, places which the mother's ablutions had presumably not touched ! Doubtless the alleged power of maternal mental impressions had reached its highest level when Thomas Bartholin made the statement that a lady had conceived a child by her husband who had been absent from her for four years through the influ- enceof imagination ("sola imaginationisvirtute"). The eighteenth century witnessed the first serious and successful criticisms of the impres- sion theory. In a work published in the first instance anonymously (1727), Blondel dealt the notion of the potency of the mother's mind over her infant's body a deadly blow. Very skilfully did he marshal his facts; and with no small degree of humour, and with now and then some biting sarcasm, did he state his arguments and refute the assertions of those whom he delighted to call " imaginationists." He first appealed to experience., and showed that impressions often occurred which were not followed by marks or anomalies of the foetus, and that deformities were met with in cases in which no impression was alleged ; second, he invoked reason, which seemed to say that since a woman could not by thinking about it mark her own body, it was not likely that she would be able to do so in the case of the infant in her womb; and, third, he brought forward the anatomical arguments, that there was no nervous communication between the mother and foetus along which impressions could pass, and that there was no direct circulation of blood from the one to the other. The spirit of criticism thus infused into the subject by Blondel was re- inforced by many of the writers who followed him; and Bellet, Monro, and Haller emphasised and at the same time established on more scientific groimds the main arguments which had been brought forward. Nevertheless, the