34 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS flat. The bony structures, sternum, ribs, costal cartilages, and clavicle are well defined. The intercostal spaces and natural fossse (supra- and infra-clavicular) are commonly deep. Louis's angle is prominent. The epigastric (costal) angle is acute. The scapulae tend to project from the sides of the thorax in wing-like fashion (alar, pterygoid). Localised flattening may occur at any point. It is especially common at one or other apex, or both. It may be found at the bases. The two sides should be compared carefully, anteriorly and posteriorly, from side to side and from above downwards. The musculature of the two sides may be found variously altered. Very often local atrophy of muscles may be determined. Associated with local flattening, displacement of bones may occur. Thus the sternal end of the clavicle may be more conspicuous on one side—fre- quently on the side opposite that where most retraction has occurred. Inspection may further detect alteration in respect of movement. The type of respiration may be altered. More especially there is apt to be diminution of movement. This may be general. The excursion of the chest may be limited. There may be imperfect descent of the diaphragm — insufficient diaphragmatic re- spiration. The defect of movement may be localised to one side and to one area. Thus ins|ifiicient apical movement is common. This may be unilateral or bilateral; or the insiiffi- ciency may be basal. Palpation affords confirmatory and supple- mentary evidence in respect of form and move- ment. The extent and limits of the deficiency are more accurately gauged. Vocal fremitus will probably be found modified. As a rule, in ordinary consolidation, the fremitus is definitely increased; in others, particularly where the pleura is much implicated (thickening, ad- hesions), the vocal fremitus is reduced. Percussion elicits dulness over a greater or smaller area. The extent and degree of dulness vary with the distribution and amount of con- solidation. Dulness is probably to be made out at one or both apices, but it may be distributed anywhere and anyhow (lobular, lobar). Corre- sponding portions of the chest (apices, axillfe, bases, and so on) will be carefully compared. Frequently, areas of hyper-resonance may be dis- tinguished—complementary emphysema (badly termed compensatory). These should be noted with extreme care, as such hyper-resonance tends to obscure conditions of consolidation with which the emphysema is associated. In some cases the hyper-resonance is actually tympanitic or subtympanitic. This may be due to relaxation of lung tissue or to tracheal vibration, if percussion over a consolidated apex be directed towards the trachea, or it may be due to the presence of a vomica. The signs of vomica formation will be considered presently. Auscultation reveals changes in the respiratory murmur, probably accompaniments of some kind, and change in vocal resonance. Thus the respiratory murmur is variously modified from the purely vesicular. It may be actually bronchial. In some cases it approximates this merely—broncho-vesicular—both vesicular and bronchial quality being present. Or the change may be detected in the expiration only, which is prolonged and blowing. In other cases the alteration amounts rather to pronounced harsh- ness, or, again, to marked feebleness. Accom- paniments are frequently audible, especially crepitations (mucous rales). These may be many or few. They may be fine, medium, or coarse. As a rule, the more the discharge, the more abundant and the coarser and more bubbling are the accompaniments. Rhonchi are often present also. Vocal resonance is commonly increased, but may be diminished or absent, as when the pleura is thickened. Pleural friction may be determined from time to time. It must be borne in mind that pleurisy occurs frequently without audible friction. Accentuation of heart sounds is commonly determinable over a greater or less area on the affected side. (6) Physical Signs of Vomica Formation.— There is commonly some evidence of consolidation (v.s.). The more positive signs of excavation are obtained on percussion and auscultation. On percussion, the resonance is frequently tympan- itic. This tympanitic percussion sound is more strictly musical than ordinary percussion sounds. It may on this account be spoken of as a note, while percussion results in general are advan- tageously termed sounds. This tympanitic note alters in pich under certain conditions. Thus its pitch is raised, if, while percussion is practised, the patient open his mouth (Win- trich), or inspire deeply (Friedreich), or rise from the recumbent to the sitting or standing posture (Gerhardt). Percussion may further yield a cracked-pot sound (bruit de pot fele). It must, however, be borne in mind that the occurrence either of tympanites or of cracked- pot sound is not confined to vomicae. They may be determined sometimes in relation to relaxed conditions of lung and yielding chest walls. Auscultation may reveal low-pitched bronchial (cavernous) respiration. Actually amphoric re- spiration may be present, especially when the cavity is large and smooth-walled. Sometimes the respiration is of changing or metamorphos- ing variety. That is to say, iiis2:)iration com- mences of hai'sh vesicular type, and, as it continues, assumes the cavernous or amphoric type. The respiration seems to expand in freedom, as if some obstruction had been over- come. If accompaniments be present, as is often the case, they are commonly bubbling