NECK, REGION OF 529 has already been dealt with in " Diseases of the Lymphatic Glands " (pp. 101-109). The follow- ing are the main points referring to glands in this region. Acute lymphadenitis from absorp- tion of irritating material occurs here as else- where. The source may be a septic cut or the inflamed pharynx of scarlatina, etc. Chronic lympthadenitis is the result either of long-continued peripheral irritation, or of the presence of the tubercle bacillus, or of the "poison" of syphilis. In enlargement, due to peripheral irritation, the cause should be sought for and removed. The list is a long one—diseased conditions of the tonsils, the pharynx, the teeth, the nose, the ear, the scalp, the naso-pharynx, are all at times responsible for glandular inflammation. In tubercular lymphadenitis the glands enlarge slowly, are at first discrete and movable, but later become matted together and adherent to the surrounding parts from periadenitis. They also tend to caseate, break down, and form tubercular abscesses in a characteristic manner. In many cases the patient possesses the physiognomy which is suggestive, though not diagnostic of tuberculosis. The treatment short of operation has already been described elsewhere. The surgeon operating on a case of tubercular glands must always be prepared for an extensive operation. As often as not the removal of one gland reveals the presence of another, and when this is taken away still another, and so on. If operation is to be done it should be radical: all the glands should be taken away. The deep glands are found lying along the internal jugular vein. When they are very adherent the safest plan is to remove a portion of the vein along with them. Further, in order to get free access it is often advisable to divide the sterno-mastoid and unite it again when the glands have been removed. The in- cisions in these operations should, where possible, follow the normal creases in the skin. In this way the scar is made less conspicuous. Broken- down glands must be removed with the sharp spoon. The cavity is then touched with pure phenol and stuffed with iodoform gauze. The purplish, sodden, undermined skin round the edges should also be excised. Syphilitic enlargement frequently occurs dur- ing the secondary stage of the disease. The glands are hard, not of large size, not tender, and freely movable. The occipital ones are very commonly aff'ected. The history and other evidences of the disease will help in the diagnosis. In lymphadenoma, which is usually met with in young males, the cervical glands are almost invariably the first in the body to become affected. The glands are not tender, and are generally fairly soft. They enlarge slowly, show no tendency to caseate, and as a rule are discrete, and freely movable. One or two VOL. VI glands only may be implicated, or a consider- able number may enlarge and form a large mass round the neck. As the disease progresses, the glands of the axilla, and later of nearly every other part of the body, enlarge. Sometimes they become adherent to one another, in which case the difliculty of the diagnosis between lymphadenoma and tubercle, often troublesome enough already, is increased. When the glands of the neck occasionally enlarge in the lym- phaemic variety of leucocythtjemia, the presence of an abnormal number of leucocytes in the blood in the latter is the only means of diff'er- entiating the two conditions, anaemia being present in both. In the treatment of lymph- adenoma, when arsenic has been used without eff"ect, excision of the glands, if there is no evidence of infrathoracic growth, should be tried. Lymphosarcoma, or primary sarcoma of the lymphatic glands, resembles lympho-adenoraa very closely, except in the very much greater rapidity of its growth. Its early and complete removal aff'ords the only chance for the patient. Secondary enlargement follotoing malignant disease is common, and may be found following epithelioma of the lips, tongue, larynx, carci- noma of the mamma, etc., in the related glands. These, when they are definitely infiltrated, are extremely hard, irregular, and generally painful. They quickly become adherent to neighbour- ing parts and to each other, and grow rapidly. They are also prone to break down in the centre, and so to form spurious cysts. Second- ary sarcomatous enlargements also occur, but less frequently, as after sarcoma of the tonsil or of the salivary glands. The question of removal will naturally depend on the amount of the infiltration, and the site, extent, and duration of the primary lesion. Enlargements of the Thyroid Gland.—These are simple hypertrophy, fibrous or cystic en- largement, pulsating goitre, exophthalmic goitre, and more rarely malignant disease, acute in- flammation, and the condition known as acute goitre. {See "Thyroid Gland, Medical.") Lipomata. — These are by no means un- common. They are found over the nape of the neck and also in the submaxillary region. The neck is also the seat of the large difftise variety of lipoma. The latter form of fatty tumour is best left alone. Nmvi also occur. Fibromata, chondromata, osteomata are all extremely rare. Sterno-mastoid Tumour {sterno-mastoid haema- toma). — This is a localised induration of the sterno-mastoid not infrequently noticed shortly after birth. It is most probably the result of a partial rupture of the muscle during delivery, and not a manifestation of congenital syphilis as has been thought by some. The condition may be followed by torticollis. Ordinary gummata also are sometimes met with in the sterno-mastoid. 34