LUNGS, DISEASES OF—PNEUMONOKONIOSIS 68 of improved methods of ventilation. The re- sultant condition is termed anthracosis. Other dusts of vegetable origin will be referred to presently. (2) It may be of animal origin. In this group are to be included dust particles from wool, hair, and the like. (3) It may be of inorganic origin. This may take the form of {a) stone or similar dust (chalicosis), or (b) metal dust of different metals (sidefvsis). Historical. — Indications are not wanting that the results of inhalation of dust particles had occupied the attention of observers previ- ously, but it is only in the literature of the nineteenth century that we find any serious consideration of the subject. Early in the century keen discussion occurred regarding the nature of the pigmentary change discovered in certain lungs. There was at one time strong backing of the view that the pigmentation resulted from altered blood pigment. This view was completely overturned by reason of careful chemical, microscopical, and experi- mental observations. More particularly, in the beautiful researches of Arnold the progress of the dust particles through the lymph channels and their deposition in different structures were demonstrated. There is no longer any doubt as to the fact of absorption and deposition within the lung tissues of particles of dust of various kinds. More recent discussion has turned on the nature and cause of associated changes discovered in the lungs. Are these to be interpreted as consequential on the presence and irritation of the inhaled particles'? Or, as has been suggested, are the particles especially deposited where a morbid condition of lung structures previously exists? Or does the in- halation of dust particles prepare the way for the entrance of micro-organisms, which in turn effect the major portion of the tissue changes'? What, for example, is the relationship between the inhalation of dust particles and the advent of pulmonory tuberculosis'? Etiology.—Under strictly normal conditions, the major portion of the dust disseminated in the atmosphere becomes arrested in inhalation by the hairs at the entrance to the nostrils, the moisture of the nasal mucous membrane, and the ciliated epithelium of the main passages. When for any reason—or apart from such— normal nose breathing is replaced by mouth breathing, the means of filtration are in large part lost, and the dust particles of the ordinary atmosphere pass more directly into the air- passages. Or again, if dust particles be in excess in any atmosphere, the ordinary methods of filtration prove insufficient. The particles pass downwards into the larynx and trachea, and, acting as foreign bodies, lead to increased mucous secretion, by which they are in turn entangled and got rid of, at least in part. This is evidenced by the greyish mucous dis- charge which is expectorated after prolonged exposure to dust inhalation, e.g. in travelling on dusty and dirty railroads or occupying an insufficiently ventilated smoke-room. In still more marked degree it is evidenced by the black spit of miners, which continues so long as their underground life is kept up and may disappear on a change of occupation. If the exposure to dust inhalation be maintained, the integrity of the lung tissue is disturbed, and this in a variety of ways, according to the nature of dust inhaled. Dust of Vegetable Origin.—Of this group the most important member is carbon (smoke, coal- dust, soot, etc.). The coal-miner is especially likely to suffer. The etiological influence of carbon dust has been restricted much by im- provements effected in relation to the ventila- tion of mines, so that the occurrence of a solidified, black lung {anthracosis) is much less common than it used to be. What is the effect of the continued inhalation of coal dusf? It is quite certain that a large amount of such dust may be inhaled without causing permanent damage. In many cases it gives rise to some degree of irritation of the passages (naso-pharyngitis, laryngitis, tracheitis, bronchitis). Bronchial catarrh may lead second- arily, through coughing, to emphysema. But the dust particles do not pass through the mucous membrane of the passages. In the bronchi an effectual barrier is formed by the basement membrane. The continued catarrhal condition of the bronchi, however, facilitates the passage of the particles downwards until the alveoli are reached. At this point the particles are in part absorbed by the lining endothelium. In still larger number they pass between the alveolar cells and obtain entrance into the lymph channels. Now they are hurried on more rapidly in the lymph stream. At suc- cessive points they get deposited in the peri- bronchial and perivascular tissues. In course of time the fibrous structure of the interlobular septa and the deeper layer of the pleura is reached, and the bronchial, retrobronchial, and tracheal glands are invaded. The various tissues become blackened to a less or greater degree according to the amount of absorption. The pigment particles are carried to still more distant organs. It has been maintained that this process may be continued indefinitely without injury to the lung. The statement must be received with much reserve. It seems reasonable to expect that there should come a time when the continuous absorption of carbon particles must effect more than mere pigmenta- tion of lung and gland structures. The lym- phatic circulation may become, in point of fact, seriously impeded, and actual necrosis and sloughing of lung tissue result. None the less is it true that the process may be continued for a long period without the production of the graver disturbance.