LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 22 for the first offence of 300 ducats, and for the second of banishment for ten years. During the earlier half of the nineteenth century, how- ever, the view, while not dismissed, fell rather into the background. Leading physicians were prepared to admit the possibility of its transmissibility under certain conditions. Thus Laennec thought it proper and prudent to insist on precautions. It is pathetically curious to read that he traced the tuberculosis from which he afterwards suffered to a post-mortem injury. Others expressed themselves in opposition to the view. In 1843 Klencke reported that he had succeeded in producing widespread tuber- culous disease by the intravenous injection into rabbits of tuberculous products. These ex- periments seem to have made little impression. The announcement of Villemin of the in- oculability of tuberculosis roused a storm of criticism. For a time it seemed almost proved that the introduction of other bodies besides tuberculous products was capable of producing similar effects. It was shown, however, in turn that the experiments pointing in this direction were fallacious. Further elaboration of Ville- min's experiments went to show that direct inoculation and introduction of the tuberculous virus by ingestion and inhalation were alike capable of reproducing the disease. All these observations tended likewise to emphasise the unity of the tuberculous process in contradiction of the dual view which had been admitted by Virchow and others. In 1881 Koch announced the discovery of the tubercle bacillus. This brilliant discovery, the validity of which was never seriously contested, finally afforded a firm basis of fact. The tubercle bacillus is the cause of tuberculosis. Without the tubercle bacillus there can be no tuberculosis. Tuberculosis is the pathological condition produced by the presence and activity of the specific organism. If the tubercle be present, whatever the variety of clinical mani- festation, we are justified in labelling the process tuberculous. The essential unity of the tuberculous process is established beyond dispute. More recent research has been directed to the life-history of the tubercle bacillus, the chemical nature of the organism and its products, and the pathogenic properties of these. Thereby much light has been thrown on the nature of the morbid process and the cause of death in pulmonary tuberculosis. Etiology 1. Essential Cause.—The tubercle bacillus is the central etiological factor. Other contribu- tory factors are of much significance; but the actual cause—causa sine qua non—is the bacillus. This has been certainly demonstrated l)y Koch. The organism is found in the tissues of all tuberculous organs; it can be cultivated on a variety of media outside the body. In- oculation of healthy animals by means of these cultures certainly reproduces tuberculosis. Morphological Characters.—These are detailed more fully elsewhere (see " Tuberculosis"). The bacilli are thin, slender rods, varying in size from 2'5 /x to 3-5 /t, or about \ to -| the length of the diameter of a red blood corpuscle. They are straight or often slightly incurved. Many present a beaded aspect. Whether the apparent beading is the expression of spore- formation or vacuolation is not quite certain. The weight of testimony is in favour of the latter view. The bacilli occur frequently in little clumps or masses; sometimes they are grouped in filamentous fashion. They are non-motile. Staining Reactions. — Many methods have been described. It is usual to make use of fuchsin or gentian violet dissolved in carbolic acid solution. The staining process is hastened by warmth. For clinical purposes the Ziehl- Neelsen method, or Gabbett's modification of this, is convenient (p. 30). Cultures.—The bacillus grows slowly. Of culture media may be mentioned inspissated blood serum, glycerine agar, glycerine bouillon, potatoes and other vegetables, especially when glycerine has been added. The optimum temperature for growth is 37° to 38° C. Vitality.—Even outside the body the bacillus is fairly long-lived. Thus dried sputum con- taining the bacillus retains its virulence for 2-3 months, and possibly for 6-8 months. If kept in water, the virulence may be retained for many months. The bacilli resist putrefac- tion for many weeks. In the moist state they are rapidly killed—say in five minutes—if the temperature be elevated to 100° C, while if dried they may withstand the same temperature for an hour. They are highly resistant to cold, even the frozen state. On the other hand, their virulence is speedily lost on exposure to sun- light. Direct sunlight kills them in a few minutes, or, at most, an hour or two, and diffuse light in several days. Chemical agents are resisted variously, e.g. 5 per cent carbolic acid destroys their virulence in a few hours, and often in a shorter time. Mode of Activity.—This can only be rapidly sketched. Further consideration will be found imder " Tuberculosis." When the bacillus has obtained a footing in the tissues, it quickly multiplies, and gives rise to local and general changes. The local changes are twofold. In the first place, proliferation of connective tissue elements takes place. Newly formed epithelioid cells make their appearance. Small foci of these occur in relation to the multiplying bacilli. This proliferative process advances rapidly, and associated therewith there appear small round cells—migratory uni-nucleated leucocytes—which gradually increase in numbei".