413 MIGRAININ migraine and other toxic headaches ; dose, 15 grains. Migration.—Wandering or passing from one part of the body to another, e.g. when the ovum, set free from the ovary, passes into and down the Fallopian tube, or when white blood corpuscles pass out of the vessels into the tissues in inflammation. By external migration is meant the passage of the ovum from one ovary into the tube of the opposite side, and by internal migration its passage through the tube of the same side into the uterus and thence into the tube of the opposite side. IVIigTOl.—-A proprietary preparation, said to consist of caiTein, sodium bicarbonate, and guaiacetin, used in migraine. iVIiiculiCZ'S Dictum. — The alleged danger of giving a general ansesthetic to a person in whose blood the haemoglobin percentage has fallen below 30. iVIikuliCZ'S Disease. — Enlargement of the salivary, lachrymal, and buccal glands of a chronic nature; it may be associated with enlargement of the spleen. iVIilciioi.—A disinfectant, regarded as a mixture of creasote and petroleum. Miiian's IVIetliod.—A method of measuring the rapidity of coagulation of blood by placing a drop on a glass slide and noting the shape of the coagulating drop when the slide is held vertically. The drop at first is tear-shaped, and when completely coagulated it forms a symmetrical projection; five minutes is the average time under normal circumstances. iViiliaria. See also Rickets {Clinical Features); Skin, Diseases of Sweat and Sebaceous Glands {Miliaria); Skin Diseases OF THE Tropics {Prickly Heat, Miliaria Papu- losa).—Definition.—The term "miliaria" is applied to those cutaneous disorders in which a fine papular, or vesicular, eruption accompanies a visible accumulation of sweat in any portion of the surface of the body. Mention is made in works on dermatology of miliaria crystallina, M. rubra, M. vesiculosa and M. papulosa, but, with the exception of crystallina, they are mere clinical expressions of uncertain pathology. Symptoms.—1. Miliaria Crystallina or Sttda- mina.—-In the course of scarlet fever, typhus, puerperal fever, acute articular rheumatism, and many other febrile and inflammatory dis- eases, we not uncommonly meet with an eruption of vesicles at the so-called critical stage, when an outburst of perspiration follows the tempo- rary arrest of the sudoriparous function. This vesicular eruption is miliaria crystallina or sudamina, and is due merely to the retention of sweat in the ducts immediately beneath the thin, horny cuticle. The vesicles resemble drops of dew inasmuch as they are pellucid and colourless, and are not unaccompanied by hypersemia or inflammation. They provoke no subjective symptoms, although they may develop in large numbers over the neck, chest, and abdomen. The vesicles have no infective power, and once developed, cease to enlarge. In a few days they dry up, the damaged fragments of cuticle fall off", leaving no trace of the eruption. Sudamina is not a special exanthema and has no diagnostic or prognostic importance. 2. Miliaria Rubra.—While it is not yet clear as to what precise morbid condition of the skin this term should be restricted, M. rubra iindoubtedly belongs to the group of eruptions which accompany profuse sweating. The lesions are bright red papules or minute vesicules, according to the amount of fluid in the skin, and they generally develop in crowds closely set together over the chest and abdomen, or any portion of the skin which may have been over- heated. The vesicles remain isolated even when crowded together, unlike the eczematous lesions which have a strong tendency to fvision, and after a few days disappear without leaving any marks of their existence. The eruption, as a whole, may be kept up for some weeks if the hyperidrosis and surface irritation are allowed to continue. Miliaria rubra is not uncommon in children as a resvilt of too warm clothing ; it is known in such instances as strophulus, or "red gum," or lichen infantum. 3. Miliaria Alba. — This is not a special disease. The name refers to the milky-white appearance which the miliary vesicles some- times assume. It is due to the macerating influence of the fluid on the epidermic layers, or to the conversion of the vesicle into a pustule. 4. Miliaria Papulosa or Prickly Heat.—The hyperidrosis underlying prickly heat is not in itself a morbid process, being merely the effect of a hot climate. It is mainly in the Tropics that this affection is found, although it is not unknown even in temperate climes during a hot summer. Europeans are prone to prickly heat, especially during their first year in a tropical country. Stout and well-nourished persons are more liable to it than the lean and spare. Nude natives of the Tropics are probably never affected with prickly heat, but this is true only so long as they remain nude or wear the thinnest of cotton garments. The eruption has been observed to develop under the belt in Sepoys who wear khaki uniform. The eruption consists of crowds of finely-pointed papules, of a bright red colour, which develop at or near the mouths of the sweat-ducts on any part of the body surface which is over- heated and irritated by clothes. The sensa- tions arising from the eruptions are made up of pricking, burning, tingling, and irritation, which is sometimes maddening. According to