418 MILK The greatest doubt attaches to the differentia- tion between the casein and the albumin in human milk, and Hauser gives for woman's milk the inverse proportion of casein 0'77 and albumin 1'59. Section III.—Dietetic Milk is commonly described as a "perfect" food, and rightly so if it be meant that it is the only article of food capable alone of sustaining- life at all ages, and, with the sole exception perhajjs of cocoa, which, like it, contains all the three food-stuffs in sufficient proportions, at all ages subsequent to infancy. But they are not present in the relative proportions required by the adult under normal conditions ; the excessive amounts of water and albuminoids inducing too active metabolism ; individuals, as diabetics, have indeed been known to accommo- date themselves to an exclusively milk diet, but it is only when growth and flesh formation, which involve a corresponding activity of meta- bolism, are proceeding rapidly, as in infancy and in repair during convalescence from wasting diseases, that milk is, in the strictest meaning of the word, a perfect food. Several milk preparations have of late years acquired an important dietetic interest, the foremost place among these being taken by the condensed milks. Condensation is effected by evaporation of the water by gentle heat, accelerated by the reduction of atmospheric pressure in so-called " vacuum pans," and is carried so far that the volume of the milk is reduced to about one- fourth. One part, therefore, of an unsweetened condensed milk, with three of water, reproduces the original milk. But the great majority of con- densed milks are " sweetened " by the addition of a large quantity of cane-sugar, so as to preserve them unchanged for an indefinite period after the cans have been opened, though the un- sweetened will keep good for a week if opened by two punctures only in the tin. The com- position of condensed milk varies greatly. Pollens found the extremes among the un- sweetened to be : water, 26-53 per cent; casein and albumin, 15-26 per cent; fat, 13-20 per cent; milk sugar, 12-18 per cent; and salts, 2-3 per cent. Among the sweetened, water, 12-36 per cent; casein, etc., 8-20 per cent; fat, 8-18 per cent; milk sugar, 11-18 per cent; salts, l'5-3'8 per cent, and the added cane-sugar, 24-40 per cent, or 32 per cent as the average. A large number of brands are now made from skimmed or separated milk, and though the law requires the fact to be clearly stated on the labels, and although their use in making puddings be harmless, it is to be feared that their lower price leads to their employment among the poor for infant feeding, and they ought to be marked "Not Fit For Babies." It cannot be denied that the excess of sugar -detracts from their suitability as a food for infants, but many children brought up wholly on condensed milk thrive well, even better than on fresh cow's milk, while the fact of the milk being sterilised and always free from sourness is no small advantage ; and probably the alleged starvation of some infants thus fed is owing to an exaggerated estimate of the condensation leading to the use of quantities far too small. More often they appear to induce excessive fat formation with a tendency to constipation. It is needless to insist on the value of cream, a highly albuminous food, rich in a most digestible fat, for infants and invalids ; but the use of separated milk, which is free from the sourness of the old-fashioned skimmed milk, and is sold in many dairies at one penny for a half-pint glass, as a summer drink for older children and adults, deserves to be encouraged. The popular notion that the skimming deprives it of all its "good- ness " is a complete misapprehension, the casein and sugar being nutritious enough for those who can obtain their fat from other articles of food, and it is certainly more nutritious and cheaper than beer, to which it is on other grounds to be preferred. Sterilised Milk.—The simple boiling of milk, of course, effects its sterilisation, and so far from rendering it less digestible really has the opposite effect. Many an outbreak of enteric fever and case of tuberculosis, to say nothing of other diseases, would have been prevented by this simple precaution if the popvilar prejudice and apathy could be overcome. Domestic and portable sterilisers, as Aymard's, are simply saucepans with water-jackets to avoid burning; but those used in large dairies, of which the best is that of Flaack of Brunswick, are steam ovens with manometer, safety-valve, and other automatic mechanisms, in which several hundred bottles can be exposed to dry or damp vapour under pressure to two atmospheres and at temperatures up to 125° C. = 265° F., with no perceptible change in the taste or appearance of the milk. " Pasteurising," or continued exposure to lower temperatures, as 70° C. or 160° F., has been abandoned as ineffective. Feptonised milk is made by the action of peptic or pancreatic ferments on diluted milk at 37° C.= 98° F. for twenty minutes, when, if not immediately drunk, it should be surrounded by ice to suspend, or boiled to arrest, the process, though for rectal administration, in which the intensely bitter taste produced by prolonged digestion does not matter, it may be continued for an hour with great advantage. Section IV.—Therapeutic The value of milk as a diet in gastric, renal, and hepatic diseases, in glycosuria, in which lactose is the only sugar or carbohydrate that can be taken with impunity, in convalescence from wasting diseases, and in fevers, is too well known to call for detailed treatment. In enteric