336 MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS Menorrhagia and Metrorrhagia— Causes ...... 345 Treatment . . . . .346 Dysmenorrhcea— Causes ...... 348 Varieties . . . . . .348 Treatment ..... 350 Intermenstrvul Pain . . . 352 Retention of the Menses— Causes—Acquired Atresia . . 352 Congenital Atresia . . 352 Symptoms ..... 353 Treatment ..... 353 Prognosis . . . . .354 See also Amenorrhcea ; Asthma {Cause of Attach) ; Breath [Clinical Diagnosis, Odour) ; Chlorosis {Symptoins) ; Climacteric Insanity ; Cryptomenorrhcea ; Dysmenorrhoea ; Ectopic Gestation {General Symptoms) ; Gynecology', Diagnosis in; Hematemesis (Vicarious Menst7-ua- tion); Hemoptysis (Vicarious); Heart, Affec- tions of Myocardium and Endocardium {Effects of Cardiac Disease) ; Hypnotism {Thera2)e%itic Uses, Menstrual Disorders); Hysteria {Disorders of Genital Organs); Infant Feeding {Breast Feeding, Retwrn of Menses); Liver, Diseases OF {Congestion, Active, Menstrual Jaundice); Menarche ; Menopause ; Ovaries, Diseases of ; Pelvis, Hematocele and Hematoma {Causes); Physiology, Reproduction {Menstt-uation) ; Pregnancy, Diagnosis {Differential Diagnosis, Retai7ied Menses) ; Pregnancy, Hemorrhage {Menstruation) ; Pruritus {Clinical Groups) ; Puberty ; Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exoph- thalmic Goitre, Genito - urinary Symptoms); Trades, Dangerous {Lead-Poisoning, Symptoms); Uterus, Malformations of ; Uterus, Displace- ments of ; Uterus, Inflammations of ; Uterus, Non-malignant Tumours of ; Uterus, Malig- nant Tumours of ; Xenomenia. Menstruation Terminology.—During the reproductive period of a woman's life, from youth to middle age, the mucous membrane of the uterus undergoes at regular intervals a constructive change which has as its object the preparation of a suitable nest for the fertilised ovum. Should concep- tion not take place, a rapid destructive meta- bolism occurs, the fabric of the half-formed decidua tumbles to pieces, the turgid capillaries burst and pour out blood which sweeps away the useless tissue dt^bris; and then the whole cycle is repeated. This bloody discharge from the womb occurs in the great majority of women once a month, hence the process has received the name of " menstruation." The age of the first onset of menstruation is termed " Puberty." Menstruation itself is variously styled " the catamenia," the " menses," the "poorly times," the "monthly periods," the " courses," being " unwell," " having the flowers," etc. The cessation of menstruation is termed the " menopause," the " climacteric," or the " change of life." Suppression of the menses is called "amenorrhcea"; painful menstruation, "dys- menorrhoea "; excessive loss at the periods, " menorrhagia " ; and intermenstrual haemor- rhage, "metrorrhagia." Where the menstrual blood collects and is pent up in the genital canal it is termed " retention of the menses." Puberty.—Psychical Changes.—The age of " puberty" is characterised by the onset and establishment of the process of menstruation. It is the spring-time of a woman's life, and is marked not only by peculiar physical changes in her figure, gait, and generative organs, but by an equally remarkable transformation in her psychical and mental life. The current of her thoughts is mysteriously changed ; hopes and yearnings unknown before thrill and agitate her, and life acquires a new and deeper meaning. The romping tomboy becomes a shy and self- conscious maiden, with finer tastes and emotional fancies. The subtle forces of sex change the girl's soul into the woman's. Physical Changes.—Before puberty the girl's figure differs but little from the boy's. But now it becomes fuller and plumper, with graceful curves instead of sharp angles. The breasts rapidly develop and become firmer, fuller, and more sensitive. The thyroid gland swells and gives the neck that roundness peculiar to the sex. The voice changes and becomes fuller in compass, richer in quality. The pelvis broadens, the buttock and thighs become more developed, and hair appears on the pubes and in the axillae. The body of the uterus enlarges, and the mucosa becomes vascular and spongy and discharges blood. The first menstruation is sometimes preceded by certain premonitory symptoms— irritability of the temper, headache, and gastric disturbance, a sense of fulness, weight, and uneasiness in the pelvis and back, and often a mucous discharge from the genitals. Age.—The age of puberty in Great Britain is usually about the fifteenth year. It is, however, modified by several factors. It occurs earlier in the Tropics (tenth year), and later in the Arctic regions (eighteenth year). The influence of race is conspicuous. Thus Jewesses all over the world begin to menstruate at the same age. Girls born of English parents in India begin at the same age as their sisters living at home, whilst negresses brought up in temperate regions commence as early as they would in Central Africa. Puberty occurs earlier in the idle and wealthy classes than among the hard-working- poor, and it is said to occur earlier in girls brought up amidst immoral influences than in the children of virtuous households. Po'ecocious Puberty.—In rare cases the onset of menstruation, usually with other signs of puberty, occurs prematurely in childhood and even in infancy. Thus in one case a child was