LUNGS, DISEASES OF—PNEUMONOKONIOSIS 69 Similar results, without the evident pigmen- tation, follow the inhalation of other vegetable dusts. Of these may be mentioned flour and other grain products, tobacco, jute, cotton, saw, and other wood dusts. In this way millers, factory workers, carpenters, and the like suffer. To this group ought strictly to be added various micro-organisms which frequently reach the system by inhalation, it may be along with dust particles. Inasmuch as these more com- monly give rise to acute processes, which are described under special names—the various fevers, etc.—they need not be further referred to now. (2) Dust of Animal Origin.—Dust of this nature occurs in relation to a number of manu- factures. It is sufficient to cite wool, hair, feathers, silk, horn, ivory—workers among which are liable to inhale the respective dust. But the dust particles are less abundant, and apart from irritation of the upper air-passages and resulting catarrh, seldom give rise to pulmonary changes of moment. (3) Dust of Inorganic Origin.—This may be either of the nature of stone dust, in which silica or silicate of alumina is a chief element (chalicosis, lithosis, silicosis), or of the nature of metal dust of different sorts (siderosis). In this fashion stone-masons, mill-stone makers, glass-cutters, potters, various metal-workers, and the like may suffer. Sometimes stone and metal dusts are combined, as in the case of polishers. The sharp particles of stone or metal dust lead to more pronounced irritation of the re- spiratory passages. In addition, when the particles reach the alveoli and enter the lung parenchyma they effect a hyperplasia of con- nective tissue elements—a reactionary fibrosis or cirrhosis. The fibrous change gradually extends. This parenchymatous condensation or consolidation becomes associated with pleural thickening and adhesion, and, it may be, with bronchiectasis. Stone-mason's fibrosis is more likely to be produced by the dust from lime- and sand-stone than that from harder volcanic stone, such as granite, in which the particles are larger and heavier and tend quickly to fall to the ground. Hence the affection is com- moner in the Edinburgh district than about Aberdeen, where granite is especially used for building purposes. It is also noteworthy that it is the hewing mason rather than the building mason who especially suffers. The further fate of such a damaged lung is various. There can be no doubt that the con- tinued inhalation of dust particles, more particularly those of more irritating form and substance, tends to reduce the resisting power of the lung to invading organisms. Thus a stone-mason's lung, which for months or years may present negative evidence in respect of tuberculosis, is apt later on to fall a prey to the tubercle bacillus, as may be proved by the determination of tubercle bacilli in the expec- toration and post-mortem in the tissues. Pathological Anatomy.—The nature of the pathological changes which result from the inhalation of dust particles is in part the same in all instances. There is always evidence of chronic bronchitis and peribronchitis, and of pigmentation more or less intense and more or less widely distributed in different cases. There is frequently some degree of reactionary fibrosis. There is commonly enlargement of bronchial glands and involvement of pleura. In certain details the morbid appearances differ in different cases. The variation is governed especially by two factors, (a) The character of the inhaled dust, whether soft and relatively non-irritating, of which the type may be found in carbon particles (anthracosis); or sharp and irritating, of which the type may be found in stone or metal dust (chalicosis, siderosis). {b) The colour of the inhaled dust. The range of variation is not very wide. The prevailing colour is black or grey-black. Occasionally a brownish-red tint occurs from inhalation of oxide of iron, or a violet tinge from ultramarine. It will suffice to take two examples for more systematic description. (1) Anthracosis.—To the naked eye, the coal- miner's lung appears much blacker than normal. Pigmentation, which is found to some extent in every adult's lung, and especially so among town dwellers, is present in enormous excess. The pleural surface, which usually shows adhesions, is of bluish-black colour. Here and there patches or nodules of darker colour are conspicuous. The cut surface presents a similar appearance. While the pigmentation is dis- tributed more or less widely throughout the lung, it is found agglomerated in patches, nodules, or streaks. Some degree of emphysema is usually present. Frequently enough osdema may be present towards the base, and the fluid which exudes may be black. The bronchi are commonly congested and thickened. Similar changes are found in relation to the peri- bronchial tissues. Fibrosis is relatively slight as compared with that found in the stone- mason's lung. Occasionally there is indication of localised necrosis and excavation—perhaps from overcharging of the lymph channels by dust or from secondary tuberculous involve- ment. The bronchial glands are, as a rule, enlarged and pigmented. On microscopic examination the alveolar wall is found distorted in outline. Pigment is present in the alveolar epithelium, both attached and shed. It is also discoverable in the interspaces throughout the lymphatic channels, in the peribronchial and perivascular tissue, the interlobular septa, the deeper layer of the pleura, and the bronchial glands.