342 MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDEES normal, and there may be no defect in the development of the genitals. The body is ripe for puberity; but, from the overtaxing of the brain or the body, the necessary nerve force is diverted into abnormal channels, and the phenomena of puberty do not appear. (c) Primary Amenorrhcea due to Defects of Development.—In some of the cases the uterus, ovaries, and tubes are entirely absent, or, if present, remain in the infantile condition. The external signs of puberty fail to appear; the breasts remain small and fiat; there is an absence of hair on the pubes, and the vulva resembles that of a child. There is also an absence of the psychical phenomena of puberty, and the emotions and instincts of sex do not develop. In other cases where menstruation fails to appear there is a development of many of the sexual characters of the male. The body acquires a distinctly masculine type. The pelvis remains narrow. Hair develops on the abdomen and chest and sometimes on the upper lip, chin, or cheeks. The voice, the gait, the figure, and the tastes become " mannish." Occasionally there is an extraordinary develop- ment of the muscular system, and hence probably the female "Samson" and "Hercules" of the shows. The external genitals may be quite normal, but the uterus is either absent or feebly developed. These masculine women rarely menstruate; if they do, puberty is much delayed, and when the periods do appear they are irregular and scanty—a mere apology for menstruation. II. Secondary Amenorrhcea.—This may be caused by either local or general conditions:— Local Causes.—1. Pregnancy and lactation. 2. Hysterectomy. 3. Atrophy of the uterus. 4. Oophorectomy. 5. Diseases of the ovaries. General Causes. — 1. Anaemia. 2. Nervous disturbances. 3. Disorders of metabolism. Arnenorrhoea in Pregnancy and Lactation.— The menses are physiologically absent in utero- gestation and lactation. Normally, a woman ceases to menstruate from the time of concep- tion till the end of lactation — a period of eighteen or twenty months. Of all the symptoms of pregnancy, amenorrhcea is the most constant. It is not, however, invariable, as some women menstruate regularly during the first three or four months of gestation, and in rare instances throughout the whole nine months. This is explained by the non-fusion of the decidua vera with the decidua reflexa, whereby the endometric cavity is preserved. Some women always menstruate during lacta- tion. In tubal pregnancy there is generally a short period of amenorrhcea, from five to eight weeks, followed by irregular losses. In abdominal pregnancy there is often total sup- pression of the menses as long as the child is alive. After it dies the periods reappear. In both tubal and abdominal pregnancy, however, menstruation may continue unaffected. Amenorrhcea after Hysterectomy.—It is obvious that if the uterus—the menstrual organ—be completely removed by abdominal or vaginal section, menstruation must cease. If, however, only partial hysterectomy be performed, as in the clamp and subperitoneal methods, it is possible for the periods to continue. In such cases it will be found that a portion of the uterus above the level of the os internum has been left behind. Amenorrhoea from Atrophy of the Uterus.— After parturition the uterus undergoes a physio- logical atrophy called " involution." The hyper- trophied muscular fibres contract and un- dergo a process of fatty degeneration. The enlarged blood-vessels shrink, and the blood sinuses become occluded. The greater part of the decidua undergoes fatty degeneration and melts away in the lochial discharge; only the deep glandular layer next to the muscular coat remains, and from it the new mucosa is b)iilt up. The surface epithelium is formed from the epithelium of the remnants of the glands. By the end of the fifth week after delivery the new mucous membrane is, as a rule, complete. Normally, however, the uterus never quite returns to its virgin condition, the parous uterus being distinctly larger than the nuUiparous. Occasionally, after severe post-partum haemor- rhage, or too prolonged lactation, the process of involution progresses beyond the normal, and the uterus undergoes extreme atrophy or super- involution. A similar condition of atrophy of the uterus may be induced, quite apart from delivery, by certain debilitating diseases, such as tuberculosis, syphilis, Bright's disease, and profound ansemia; also by chronic pelvic in- flammation, severe enough to destroy the ovaries or interfere with the blood-supply of the uterus. However caused, this atrophy of the uterus is characterised by complete and permanent cessation of menstruation. The uterus shrinks till it may be little more than an inch long, with thin flaccid walls and a pale thin fibrous mucosa. Amenorrhoea after Oophorectomy. — If the uterine appendages be removed on one side only, menstruation is not interfered with. If they be completely removed on both sides, the operation brings about, in 95 per cent of the cases, permanent cessation of the menses and a premature menopause. This post-operation climacteric is accompanied by the same peculiar nervous disturbances as characterise the natural change of life. Amenorrhoea from Disease of the Ovaries.— Ovarian tumours do not, as a rule, interfere with menstruation ; but sometimes they cause very scanty catamenia and occasionally total