MALARIA 144 low-flying insects and rarely ascend to any con- siderable height, so that it is often sufficient to sleep in the upper stories of houses in order to escape infection. The natives of many malarious regions are aware of this fact, and sleep in houses raised a considerable height from the ground. Mosquitoes do not fly far from their breeding-places, and a ship anchored a thousand yards from the shore will escape infection imless infected mosquitoes be brought to the ship. On land, however, they frequently travel con- siderable distances, especially if the country be wooded so as to afford them shelter and resting- places. Malaria is to some extent a seasonal disease, but it must be understood that con- tiguous places may not be malarious at the same season of the year if different hydraulic conditions obtain. Breeding - places for the Ano2Jheles may exist in one place at the com- mencement of the rainy season, at another only at the end of the rainy season. Vegetation and cultivation of land may act favourably or adversely towards mosquitoes, and consequently towards malaria. Trees may, by absorbing the surface and sub-soil water, prevent the formation of pools suitable for the breeding of mosquitoes, and they may act as a barrier to mosquitoes. On the other hand, they may by checking evaporation, prevent pools from drying up, and act as a shelter for mosquitoes. A good example of this is to be found at Tre Fontine near Rome, where a eucalyptus grove was planted with a view to stamp out malaria; it has instead intensified it. Again, cultivation of land may, by draining and levelling, do away with spots suitable for Anopheles to breed in; on the other hand, irriguous cultivation may afford greater facilities for the mosquitoes to breed. In some parts of Italy the cultivation of rice brought about such an increase in the frequency and intensity of malaria, that it had to be discontinued. The natives of a malarious country suffer less from malaria than newcomers. Whether this relative immunity be altogether acquired, or in part inherited, is not quite certain. It is reasonable to suppose, however, that a people living generation after generation in an intensely malarious country will, by a survival of the fittest, come to possess increased powers of resistance to malarial infection. The observa- tions which Koch has recently made in New Guinea tend to show that, for the most part, the relative immunity of natives is acquired. He made blood examinations of the apparently healthy native population in various villages, and he found that nearly all the young children harboured the malarial parasites, while the adults were free. Thus at Bogadjiun, Kaiser Wilhelm's Land, the blood of 80 per cent of the children under two years contained malarial parasites. Above that age none of those ex- amined had malarial parasites in their blood. This observation has been confirmed by others in West Africa. It will be interesting to observe whether, when native children are treated with quinine as a prophylactic measure, they will lose the immunity which they would otherwise have acquired. Men suffer more from malaria than women, partly because they are more likely to be bitten by mosquitoes, and partly on account of the hardships and exposure they undergo, which predispose them to relapses. In considering the etiology of malaria many old theories must be discarded, and many others, which could not formerly be understood, can now be fully explained in the light of the new researches. Treatment The treatment of malaria consists principally in the administration of quinine ; no other drug equals it in efficacy. It is all-important, there- fore, to have a thorough knowledge of the details for its employment. Quinine acts by arresting the growth of the malarial parasite and causing its disappearance from the blood. The effect of the drug is more rapid and certain in the case of the benign fevers; it exerts its greatest influence on the young parasites, which lose their motility and become more refractile and granular, and they may be extruded by the corpuscle. Both the chromatin matter and protoplasm of the parasites are altered and stain imperfectly; the Germans call these bodies "quinine formen." In an ordinary uncomplicated case of malarial fever, either benign or malignant, quinine is best given in a mixture containing a solution of one of the salts. The sulphate is the one usually employed, its solution being effected by means of one of the dilute mineral acids. On the whole, however, the hydrochlorate of quinine is preferable; it contains more alkaloid, is less irritating and more soluble than the sulphate, but it is rather more expensive. It may be given in solution, in suspension, in mucilage, or in a little milk or coffee, if preferred, the taste being less noticeable in this way. It may be exhibited also in the form of pill, tabloid, or platinoid. None of these pharmaceutical pre- parations are, however, to be recommended if the drug is available in any other simpler form. If a case, especially one of malignant in- fection, shows the slightest indication that quinine is not being absorbed in the alimentary canal, or if it is vomited, the drug should be administered either by deep intramuscular in- jection, or intravenously, or by the i-ectum. Deep intramuscular injections are the best; they should be administered with strict anti- septic preca\itions; the solution of the acid hydrochlorate (1 in 2) is usually employed. It can be best made from tabloids at the time of