WATERS 434 MINERAL catarrh of bladder, gravel—kidney and bladder calculi. Chief Calcareous Waters Name. Country. Elevation, Feet. Temperature of Springs. Contrexeville . France . 1150 Cold Vittel France . 1200 Cold Wildungen Germany 980 Cold Lippspringe Germany 450 70° Lucca Italy 390 70° to 125° Hamman R'Irha Algiers . 133° Contrexeville, in particular, has a considerable reputation in bladder troubles and in kidney and bladder calculi. The water is drank in exceedingly large doses, and gravel and calculi are frequently passed during the course. This is generally considered to be due to the mechanical action of the large quantities of fluid taken. The mineral waters of India, America, New Zealand, Japan, Russia, Turkey and Greece are mentioned in the article on "Balneology." Mines.—The hygiene of mines (especially coal-mines and those for shale, ironstone, and fireclay) is regulated by the Coal Mines Regula- tion Act of 1887 for Great Britain and Ireland. No woman is to be employed underground in any mine, and no boy under twelve years of age. Single shafts are prohibited; there must be at least two, and each must have a proper lowering and raising apparatus. Adequate ventilation is required; safety-lamps, without keys, are to be carried by the miners if there is the least risk, and no matches are to be in their possession. No explosives are to be stored in the mine. There must be regular inspection of the mine. Minim. — The sixtieth part of a fluid drachm. See Prescribing ; Metric System ; ETC. M i n i nri£li. —Literally minimal means least, and it is usually employed in medicine in refer- ence to doses, the smallest quantity of a drug which has been found to be effective being called the minimal dose. Minimetric Metiiod.—A method of estimating the amount of carbonic acid present in the air, devised by Angus Smith; it depends upon the determination of the amount of air which must pass through a given quantity of lime-water in order to produce cloudiness, the carbonic acid of the air combining with the lime to form carbonate of lime. Minimus.—The little finger or toe; the fifth or outermost digit. Minium. — Red lead, PbjO^, an oxide intermediate between lead oxide, PbO, and lead peroxide, PbOg; it used to be employed in making plasters. Mint. >S'ee Menthol ; Peppermint; etc. M i rac i d i U m. See Parasites {Helminths, Trematodes). Mirror.—Mirrors are used in medicine for the inspection of internal parts such as the larynx and the eye, nose and ear. See Eye, Clinical Examination of ; Ear, Examination OF ; ETC. Mirror-Maker's Paralysis. See Trades, Dangerous {Mercury); Mercury ; Toxicology {Mercury). Mirror-Writingf. — The term mirror- writing (Ger. Spiegelschrift) has been applied to that form of writing which is executed from right to left, with the letters so arranged that when reflected in a mirror they look like ordinary writing. True mirror-writing is written with the left hand. It has been found that some patients always write in the mirror fashion when asked to write with the left hand; and some cases (as, for instance, that recorded by Bernard) do not appear to be aware of the fact that the writing is peculiar. Bernard's patient wrote letters to her friends in mirror fashion and was surprised she did not receive answers from them. I have seen several cases who wrote in this way and did not appear to think the fact at all uncommon. They simply took it for granted that this was the proper way to write with the left hand. The condition has been looked upon by most clinical observers as an interesting and curious phenomenon, but one having little or no clinical or pathological significance. It had been noticed by various observers to have been exhibited by patients suffering from diseases of the nervous system, as, for instance, in hemiplegia (Poore and Elder), in hysteria (Savage), in locomotor ataxy (Bernard), in idiots and imbeciles (Ireland). From an investigation which I carried out a few years ago I found, however, that mirror- writing in a more or less perfect form was ex- hibited by a certain percentage of people in perfect health. In the table on next page I append the results of my investigation. These figures brought out very remarkable results. The total number tested was 451 and the percentage of mirror- writers was 5'1. There were 337 females and 114 males. The percentage of mirror-writers among the females was 5'63 and amongst the males 3'5. Of the 154 over fifteen years of age 10'39 were found to be mirror-writers, whilst of the 297 under fifteen years of age only 2-35 were mirror-writers. Of the 95 females over fifteen years of age 14"73 were mirror-writers, whilst of