398 MICROSCOPE, THE immersion objective, cedar oil with a refractive index of 1'51 is employed, as this is likewise the refractive index of crown-glass. In dry and immersion objectives both chromatic and spherical aberration are largely corrected, and these objectives are therefore termed achromatic. In apochromatic objectives both forms of aber- ration are still more completely corrected, but as their use is not essential for ordinary work the reader is referred to standard works on microscopy for a detailed description of such objectives. Their value lies largely in the fact that they can be used with oculars of high magnification, and in their suitability for microphotography. The terms focal distance, frontal distance, re- solving and defining power, angle of aperture, and numerical aperture require explanation. The focal distance is the distance of the focus from the lens, and objectives are distinguished by their focal distance measured in inches or millimetres, although the dry objectives of Continental makers are often designated by the numbers I., II., etc. (Leitz, Reichert, and others), or by the letters A, B, C, etc. (Zeiss). The frontal distance is the distance between the frontal of the objective and the cover-glass when the object is accurately focussed. The resolving power of an objective is its power of showing detail, whilst the defining power is its power of defining outline. Numerical aperture.—The resolving and defining powers of an objective depend, apart from its correction for spherical and chromatic aberration, on its angle of aperture, which is defined as " the angle formed by the two extreme rays emanating from the object, and utilised by the objective" (van Heurck), and the greater the angle of aperture the greater is its resolving power. But the angle of aperture also depends on the refractive index of the medium interposing between the objective and the object; and each objective has what is known as a " numerical aperture " (N.A.), which is represented by the sine of half the angidar aperture multiplied by the re- fractive index of the medium (air, oil, etc.)— thus N.A. = 71 sin u, n being the refractive index of the medium, whether air, water, or oil. The refractive index of air is taken as 1 ; that of distilled water is 1'33; and that of cedar oil 1'51. By the above equation it is found that a homogeneous immersion objective with an angular aperture of 82° has the same numerical aperture as a dry objective with an angular aperture of 180°, the numerical aperture of each objective being 1; hence homogeneous immersion objectives having an angular aperture greater than 82° have a larger aperture than dry objec- tives of 180°, and thus have greater resolving power, or, in other words, are of greater value for the observation of very minute structures. Thus a dry objective, the N.A. of which is 0'88, and a homogeneous immersion objective with a N.A. of 1"30, each with a focal distance of inch, give the same amplification, yet the latter having the greater resolving power is conse- quently to be preferred. Another advantage of an immersion objective over a dry objective of the same magnifying power is that the former has a greater frontal distance, and is therefore more easily used. The ocular commonly used is known as a Huyghenian ocular, and is composed of a tube, at each end of which is a plano-convex lens with its convex surface towards the objective. These lenses are termed respectively the eye lens and field glass, and between them is a diaphragm. The tube forming the body of the instrument, and to the lower end of which the objective is attached, is furnished with an inner tube, termed the draw-tube, into the further end of which the ocularfits. This draw-tube shouldbear a scale graduated in millimetres to indicate the exact distance of the ocular from the objective. Tube lengths are corrected either for English or Continental objectives; but apart from this, the total length of the tube to be used depends on the thickness of the cover-glass employed during the examination. With Continental instruments, which are intended for use with cover-glasses 0'15 to 0'20 mm. thick, the distance from the eye glass to the end of the tube into which the objective is screwed should be 170 mm. ; but as a nose-piece is usually employed, and has a thickness of 10 mm., the draw-tube is to be extended to the mark 160. The tube length for the English body is 250 mm. Mention may also be made of the fact that some objectives are fitted with "correction collars " for the correction of the varying thick- ness of cover-glasses. Focussing Adjustments. — The body of the microscope with objective and ocular is raised from or lowered towards the stage by two means—the coarse and the fine adjustments. The former is effected either by a rack and pinion, or simply by a combined sliding and screwing movement of the body tube in a spring tube connected with the stand. The mechanism for slow movement of the body, i.e. for fine adjustment, varies in its component parts according to the model of the microscope, but usually consists of two tubes which tend to separate from each other by the pressure of a spiral spring, and are moved on each other by a screw attached to a milled head. The nose-piece, which is an appliance screwed to the lower end of the microscope tube, and permits of objectives being rapidly changed, is an almost indispensable part of the microscope. A nose-piece is usually constructed to carry two or three objectives (dovible or triple nose- piece). The illuminating apparatus consists of a plano-concave mirror, and usually, too, of a