LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 44 perhaps, traceable to errors of dietary—this is a not unimportant aspect of forced feeding— and to the over use of medicinal agents (alcohol, terebene, tuberculin, etc.). In the course of this complication, or, it may be, in relation to genito-urinary tuberculosis {q.v.), urcemic symptoms may supervene. These are rarely of acute sort, but include increased dyspnoea, congestion and oedema of lungs, pleurisy, vomiting, which greatly aggravate the patient's condition. Genito-urinary tuberculosis may affect the kidney, ureter, bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, vas deferens, and more rarely the uterus and ovary. Symptomatically, it is probably revealed by changes in the urine. The patient passes pus (with a corresponding amount of albumin), flaky, shreddy, caseous debris, and perhaps blood. In the sediment—• it is sometimes necessary to centrifuge the urine—tubercle bacilli are discoverable by the method described in relation to the sputum. Sometimes there is marked lumbar pain, and occasionally, in reduced subjects, renal enlarge- ment may be determined. When the bladder is especially affected, symptoms of cystitis may be present, but may be quite wanting. The cause of genito-urinary tuberculosis aff'ords scope for discussion. It may be induced by carriage of bacilli through blood and lymphatic streams ; thus in the female it may pass almost directly from the peritonitis. AVhen other organs save the lungs are healthy, it is reasonable to seek for an explanation in local inoculation. This has been shown to occur in connection with coitus, and pi'obably also with masturbation. The relations of pulmonary tuberculosis with reproductive activity are various. In the male sometimes there is an increased proclivity to sexual congress. Examples of this are numerous. Thus one patient, in extremely emaciated condition, is reported to have had coitus on the day of his death. In other instances the activity, at first probably increased, disappears with the progress of the disease. In the female, amenorrhoea, or, at least, scanty menstrual flow, appears early. Only rarely is there menorrhagia. When pregnancy is established, it appears at first to exert a conservative influence. Cough and other symptoms may lessen or disappear, and the patient's general condition seems better. But during the puerperium and thereafter the patient fares badly. There is commonly a marked aggravation of symptoms, the general condition is much prejudiced, and the fatal issue is usually hastened. Apart from preg- nancy, and indeed in the male sex, the mammary gland on the affected side has been reported as becoming enlarged. (/) Nervous.—The carriage of tubercle bacilli to the central 7iervous system is common. It is especially so in children, but is commoner in adolescents and adults than is sometimes supposed. The carriage is affected chiefly by way of the blood-stream. It may take place, however, by the lymph-stream, as when the spinal cord is reached gradually by continuity of structure, or when the cerebrum is invaded from nose or ear, which in turn has been secondarily affected by tuberculous expectora- tion. The invasion of the central nervous system takes the form most frequently of meningitis, or, it may be, of tuberculous masses or nodules within the cerebro-spinal matter. Meningitis may occur anywhere in the cerebro- spinal meninges, but is most commonly basilar. The symptoms are fully considered elsewhere (see " Meningitis "). As it develops in relation to pulmonary tuberculosis, e.g. in grown sub- jects, it is desirable to emphasise the signifi- cance of intractable headache, irritability, giddi- ness, causeless vomiting, hemiplegic or other paralytic manifestation {e.g. of cranial nerves), inequality of pupils, stupor, cervical rigidity, convulsions. In doubtful cases, an examination of the fundus oculi may prove serviceable (choroidal tubercle, optic neuritis). Exploratory puncture (lumbar) and withdrawal of cerebro- spinal fluid for examination (tubercle bacilli) has also been practised. It is important to bear in mind that cerebro-spinal meningitis may ensue rapidly in apparently slight cases of pulmonary tuberculosis. Thus the writer has seen it supervene in patients whose lung con- dition— though undoubted—had not been con- sidered till the complication occurred, and again in patients, after pleurisy with effusion or with localised lung mischief, who seemed doing ex- cellently well. Sometimes it appears to be determined by excitement or exhaustion. Thus in several cases it has supervened quickly after long railway j ourneys. This may be coincidence, but it is worthy of recollection in relation to the sending of patients to health resorts at a dis- tance. In more than one case, it has supervened after a round of gaiety undertaken too quickly after convalescence. Tuberculous masses or nodules may occur in the cerebrum or cerebellum. They may be multiple and of varying size. The symptoms produced by their presence are largely those of cerebral tumour {q.v.) and depend on their site. They may give rise to no symptoms whatever. Occasionally hemiplegic manifesta- tions and the like occur without any discoverable trace, post-mortem, of tuberculous deposit; these cases may be referable to the circulation of toxins. It seems certain that the circulation of toxins formed in relation to the tuberculous process may produce peripheral neuritis. Cor- responding changes have been found in the nerve structure. Clinically, the neuritis may be characterised by sensory disturbance (pain, hypereesthesia, anaesthesia) and motor disturb- ance, with atrophy of muscle. To the first group may be relegated many of the aches and pains which the tuberculous patient experiences