NEPHRITIS 544 and, when it is remembered that in cases of chronic nephritis certain areas only of the kidney are affected, it will be readily understood that the healthy intervening spaces may simul- taneously become the subject of an acute attack. Anomalous cases of chronic nephritis some- times occur which exhibit only some of the prominent symptoms, such as ansemia, dropsy, and dyspepsia; but though the patient may be free from more obvious symptoms, yet the microscopic examination of the urine indicates the presence of granular casts, renal epithelium, and granular debris characteristic of this disease. In these cases, in all probability, the area affected is small and circumscribed, but the changes are those of chronic nephritis. Course and Duration.—From what has already been said of the varying types of chronic nephritis, it is obvious that the duration and prognosis of this disease will differ considerably. When the disease can be traced onwards from an antecedent acute nephritis the duration may be almost indefinitely prolonged. The albumin may diminish after some weeks or months, and may even disappear entirely. In such cases, however, there is very little doubt that a certain portion of the kidney has been permanently damaged, and that the disease may recur at a later period. With patients where dropsy is a marked feature from the commencement, and where the initial inflammatory stage cannot be determined, the duration is exceedingly variable. The majority of cases terminate within a year or two, owing either to the enfeeblement pro- duced by impaired nutrition, or to the drain upon the system from the extreme dropsical effusion; as has been already indicated, the termination may also be preceded by one or other of the secondary inflammations. Oc- casionally the duration may be considerably longer, and in rare instances, although without a doubt the patients are suffering from chronic nephritis, a fair amount of general health may be maintained during a period of five to ten years. Dropsy is the symptom which is the most persistent in connection with chronic nephi'itis, but although this may be extreme, and may even threaten life, yet under excep- tional circumstances it may entirely pass away, and the patient may resume a condition of apparent health, marred only by the presence of albuminuria and ansemia. This condition of apparent health may be prolonged until exposure or some irregularity of life may once more start active inflammatory changes, when the clinical picture again assumes the urgent characteristics. Renal Cirrhosis.—The most valuable symp- toms, from the diagnostic point of view, connected with renal cirrhosis may be briefly summarised. There is generally an increase in the quantity of urine passed, and very little tendency to dropsical effusions. The loss of albuminuria is variable; sometimes albumin may be absent for days together, but the amount is always small. As a rule casts are difficult to find. Dyspeptic and nervous symp- toms occur early. The leading symptoms of advanced cases are those indicative of uraemia. The symptoms may be conveniently con- sidered under three classes :— I. The early or albuminuric stage, in which few indications can be detected apart from the occasional appearance of albumin and the increase in the daily amount of urine. II. The fully matured stage, when the renal trouble becomes more marked, the arteries thickened, and the left ventricle hypertrophied. In this there may be dyspeptic and neuralgic troubles, yet as a whole the health is not very markedly impaired. III. The last stage, tending towards the fatal termination, when the eliminative work of the kidney fails, the ventricle loses its force, and the various physiological systems in turn show evidence of impaired work. I. The onset is insidious and the symptoms may be misunderstood, if they do not entirely escape observation. Frequently the disease has reached an advanced stage before there is the slightest suspicion of the gravity of the malady ; it may indeed remain unrecognised until an attack of uraemic convulsions supervenes, and several cases have been recorded in which the nature of the disease was wholly unsuspected until post-mortem examination revealed the con- tracted kidneys. The indication that is most likely to attract attention is the increase in the quantity of urine. Consideration of the habits and of the family history may then throw some light upon the nature of the case. A gouty family history is often associated with small traces of albumin indicative of cirrhosis of the kidney. Sometimes the family history may point more distinctly to the probability of renal cirrhosis, since this form of kidney affection is somewhat more likely to occur in those with hereditary tendencies. The other early symp- toms are generally fonnd to be connected with the digestive system and the nervous system. The appetite is frequently diminished, and the patient complains of impaired digestion and flatulent distension. The early dyspeptic symp- toms are rarely severe ; the vomiting and diar- rhoea which are so often associated with cirrhosis of the kidney belong to a later stage. Of the symptoms connected with the nervous system headache and neuralgic pains are common. The neuralgic pains usually affect the occipital region, though neuralgia at the vertex or the frontal region may sometimes be met with. The pain, although not very severe, is more persistent than in the commoner forms of neuralgia. In a later stage sleep may be interfered with by