MUCIGEN 472 Mucig'eila — A substance contained in mucus-producing epithelial cells. Mucila.g^ines.—Solutions of gum used in Pharmacy for suspending insoluble sub- stances. Two officinal mucilagines are found in the British Pharmacopoeia, viz., the Mucilago AcacioB and the Mucilago TragacantJue. There is a considerable quantity of mucilage or gum in the root of Althea officinalis, in lin- seed (Linum usitatissimum), in Bael Fruit, in Squill, etc. Mucin.—A glyco-proteid or proteid linked with a sugar-like substance, found in the epithelium of the mouth, intestine, etc. ; it is white and amorphous when free from water but swells up and forms a glairy mass when water is added, and in the presence of alkalies it forms a viscous solution ; it yields sugar when boiled with an acid. See Physiology, Tissues (Mucin-secreting Epithelium); Physiology, Food AND Digestion {^Modified Froteids); F^ces {Physical and Chemical Examination); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Myxcedema, Chemical Fatho- logy). Mucinobla.St.—The mast cell, so called because of the way in which it reacts towards selective stains for mucin. See Mast Cells. MucinOg'en.—The substance from which mucin is formed, and which precedes it in de- velopment. Mucinuria,.—The presence of mucin in the urine. Mucocele.—An accumulation of mucus and tears in the lachrymal sac. See Eye, Clinical Examination of {Eyelids, Obstruc- tion of Nasal Duct); Lacrimal Apparatus, Diseases of {Diseases of Lacrimal Sac, Mucocele or Hydrops). Mucoid Degreneration. — A de- generative process in connective and epithelial tissues whereby they are changed into gelatin- ous material; it is closely allied to colloid de- generation. The mucoid or gelatinous material produced may contain either mucin or pseudo- mucin. The degeneration is seen in catarrh of mucous membranes, in myxoedema, in connec- tive tissues, and in several neoplasms {e.g. colloid cancer and adeno-sarcoma). Mucoids.-—-Substances differing from mucin in solubility and in their precipitating property; they are known as colloid, pseudo- mucin, chondromucoid, etc. MuCOpuS.—A mixture of mucus and pus. Mucor. See Micro-Organisms {Hypho- mycetes or Moulds); Lungs, Parasitic Affec- tions {Aspergillosis and Allied Conditions). MuCOUSMem bran es. See also Gen- eration, Female Organs of {Tubes, Uterus, etc., Mucous Membrane of); Menstruation {Changes in Mucosa); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Structtire of Alimentary Canal) ; Skin Graft- ing AND Allied Procedures {Transplantation of Mucous Membrane); Syphilis.—When we consider the wide diversity in the positions and functions of the different mucous membranes in the body, it is not surprising to find that their diseases occupy a very prominent place in general medicine. The affections of the different mucous tracts are discussed under their appropriate headings. The present note is one bearing on the morbid conditions in general. There is probably no subject in medicine which illustrates so well the great advances and progress made in medical science within the last decade or more, this being de- pendent on the great development of the science of bacteriology. A few years ago we classified the affections of the mucous tracts in some such way as the following—injuries, hyper- semia and anaemia, inflammation, ulceration, gangrene, etc., and had a very inadequate idea of the close relationship these may have to each other and to their common causal agents. Our knowledge on these points has advanced much within recent years, but is still far from complete. A reference to such articles as the " Bronchi," "Intestine," "Nose," "Urethra," and "Vulva" in other parts of this work illustrate where we stand in this matter. It will be noticed that in each of these sections the writer first lays stress on the bacteria which are normally present, and then passes to the consideration of the conditions under which they, or other bacteria, exercise a pathogenic effect. But it is just on this point that our knowledge is yet extremely limited. Take the bacillus coil, for example. It is present in the alimentary tract under perfectly normal conditions. No harm, possibly some good, results from its presence. But see the tremendous importance of that microbe in one of its numerous forms in relation to many of the most serious and fatal suppura- tive affections in the abdomen and elsewhere. Many interesting and important problems are here raised. What, for instance, is the deter- mining factor in the absorption of that bacillus or its toxins from the digestive tract? Does it depend on the existence of a breach of continuity in the lining membrane of the bowel, or does it depend on some defect in the local secretion, as a result of which the bacillus finds itself in a more favourable nidus for active development ? In many instances both of these conditions are doubtless present, but a third important one calls for consideration. This has reference to the question of general relative immunity to the influence of the bacillus. In other words, has the long-continued presence of that microbe as