MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 193 Space forbids my entering into any detail with regard to the vexed question of the heredi- tary proclivity to cancer. Those who wish to know what may be said in favour of it should consult Williams' Diseases of the Breast, p. 260, where he very ably discusses the deductions to be drawn from the history of cancer in thirty- three families (24-2 per cent) out of 136 con- secutive cases of cancer of the female breast. He gives some striking instances (amongst which is the very remarkable case recorded by Broca) of multiple family cancer occurring in successive generations; these, he says, prove conclusively the hereditability of cancer. He points out that the disease repeats itself more especially along the female line, a fact which had already been referred to by Bryant. Gross concludes that " the evidence of the inheritance of cancer is far from being satis- factory," but that there can be no doubt about " the inheritance of a peculiarity of the structure of the breast, especially of its epithelial elements, which predisposes it to the occurrence of cancer." Out of 1164 cases he finds a family history of cancer in 8'5 per cent. Bryant, who found a family history of cancer in 12 per cent of 600 cases, takes up much the same position as Gross. Paget puts the percentage as high as 33, while Winiwarter places it as low as 6 per cent. The practical result to be drawn from a study of heredity in cancer of the breast is that, in a doubtful tumour, a strong family history of cancer is in favour of its malignant character, whereas the absence of such a history is no argument whatever to the contrary. It is not within the province of this article to discuss the vexed question as to the part, if any, played by parasites in the etiology of cancer. In spite of the great attention which has been given to " cancer bodies " during the past ten years their exact nature remains as much a matter of dispute as ever. To Rilffer and his co-workers. Walker and Plimmer, belongs the credit of having singled out the most characteristic and parasite-looking of the many peculiar cellular units which modern improvements in microscopic technique have enabled us to demonstrate in cancers. These peculiar cellular bodies were regarded by Riiffer, MetchnikoiF, and others as parasitic protozoa. In Italy recently, these bodies have been subjected to renewed investigation at the hands of Sanfelici, Maifucci and Sirleo, Roncali, Binaghi, and others, all of whom claim that they are vegetable parasites belonging to the blastoniycetes (yeasts). Those who believe in the parasitic nature of the " cancer bodies" maintain that there is a gap between the morphological appearances of the degenerated or otherwise altered cancer cells and the so- called parasites, and that this gap cannot be bridged by transitional forms. The writer believes that by examining the VOL. VI " cancer bodies " by the film method instead of by making sections of the tumour, he has been able gradually to narrow down the gap so as ultimately to fill it in with transitional stages in the degeneration of a cancer cell, which follow one another so closely as to afford a satisfactory demonstration of the complete evolution of a Riiffer's " cancer body" or so- called blastomycete. It is more particularly to degenerative changes in the nuclevis that the typical " cancer bodies" of Rilffer owe their evolution. The exact nature and morphology of the " cancer body" vary according to the source of the carcinoma, or, better stated, according to the function of the normal epithelium from which the tumour has taken origin. It is highly probable that the material which accumulates in or around the degenerating nucleus and distends it into a vesicle, and which forms the body or main substance of the so-called parasite, is to be regarded as an abnormal product or aberrant secretion elaborated as the result of an attempt on the part of the cancer cell to perform a function normal to that of the type of epithelial cell from which it originated. Carcinoma of the mamma, like cancer else- where, is of epithelial origin. The tumour, whatever be its naked-eye appearances, is made up of atypical epithelial cells which occupy, invade, and multiply in a moi'e or less vascular connective-tissue framework consisting of the original stroma of the breast, which is somewhat modified and generally added to by secondary changes of an inflammatory, and often partly degenerative, character, set up by the irritation of the proliferating cancer cells. The so-called alveolar spaces of the stroma are to be regarded, therefore, as neither more nor less than the lymph spaces and interstices of the tissue. The microscopic appearances presented by the growth may be very different, not only in different tumours, but also in different parts of the same tumour; they depend mainly upon the relative proportion of the epithelial and connective-tissue elements and upon the size and shape of the alveolar spaces, or, in other words, upon the size and form of the clusters of malignant cells which they contain. Speaking roughly, fully 90 per cent of cancers of the breast originate from the epithelium of the acini. The tumour presents itself in a variety of forms to which clinicians have given special names, such as scirrhus cancer, atrophic cancer, medidlary or encephaloid cancer, acute or inflammatory cancer, lenticular cancer, and cancer en cuirasse. We shall see, however, that these various conditions are due to variations in the rate of growth and mode of extension of one and the same disease. Clinically, a convenient primary subdivision of acinous carcinomata is into (1) the circumscribed, and (2) the diffuse forms. The circumscribed