OF—EMPHYSEMA 77 LUNGS, DISEASES is able to undergo increased exertion. The baths should be given (if the first or second prove beneficial) two or three times a week, and after some weeks the effect will often be found to be permanent. A good account of this treatment will be found in the article on "Aerotherapeutics," in vol. i. of Clifford Allbutt's System of Medicine. Our space is too limited to enter into the probable reasons for the beneficial effects obtained. Rarefied air has been found to be of use in some cases, but the mechanical methods employed appear to be of far less general value than those of the compressed air baths. Vascular Disorders of the Lung Anemia 77 Acute Congestion 77 Chronic Venous Congestion . . .78 (Edema of the Lungs . . . .79 Thrombosis . . . . . .81 Embolism—Infarction . . . .82 See also Hemoptysis, vol. iv. Anemia of the Lungs Pulmonary anaemia may be due to one of three great groups of causes—(1) blocking of or interference with the pulmonary arteries; (2) an impoverished condition of the blood; and (3) changes in the air-passages which in- terfere, not with the larger pulmonary arteries, but with the capillaries. (1) The first of these groups includes stenosis of the pulmonary orifice, which is generally of congenital origin, and which either may be in- compatible with life, or may lead to serious interference with the aeration of the blood and the development and robust health of the sufferer. Embolism and thrombosis, and pressure upon the pulmonary arteries from without, also cause more or less extensive pulmonary anaemia. Reference is made to the latter conditions separately, and it is only necessary to add here that they may cause sudden death, or at any rate loss, often permanently, of an area of lung with much resulting dyspnoea and distress. (2) Any anaemic condition of the blood must imply also corresponding anaemia of the lungs. (3) In emphysema the alveolar capillaries are compressed and often obliterated, and in pulmonary cirrhosis there is inevitably much interference with the circulation in the affected area. An emphysematous lung is typically anaemic, and the dyspnoea associated with a marked degree of emphysema is as much due to the pulmonary anaemia as to the backward pressure on the right heart resulting from the condition. The grey stage of pneumonia hepatisation owes its pecular colour to the pressure of the alveolar contents on the alveolar capillaries. And, lastly, in tubercular disease, in collapse of the lung, and in nearly every lung disease in which there is not universal hypersemia, there are often more or less limited anaemic areas. The great clinical feature is dyspnoea; but the pulmonary anaemia is so often merely a part of the disease from which the patient is suffering that the diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment re- quire to be considered under the various con- ditions indicated above. Active Hyperemia or Acute Congestion of the Lungs Pulmonary hyperaemia may be active or passive. Active hyperaemia or acute congestion of the lungs accompanies, and is, in fact, a necessary adjunct of all pulmonary inflamma- tions. The first stage of pneumonia is acute congestion of the area of lung about to become hepatised ; and in tuberculosis, abscess, pleurisy, and bronchitis a more or less extensive hyper- aemia necessarily accompanies and forms part of the inflammatory process. We must consider, however, whether a primary acute congestion can occur apart altogether from such causal agents as the tubercle bacillus or the pneumo- coccus. Obviously; and an acute congestion could be induced in two distinct ways, either from excessive action of the right ventricle, or from an irritant diffused by the bronchial tubes throughout the lung tissue. Woillez has de- scribed a form of pulmonary congestion, which is called in France after his name—and many continental authorities agree with him—but which in this country we should include under the heading of pneumonia. Whenever the heart acts excitedly, as in many fevers or after severe and protracted exertion, hypersemia of the lungs may occur. Scarlet fever, smallpox, and typhus are among the fevers most commonly accompanied by pulmonary congestion, and it has also been observed in certain cases of articular rheumatism. In many of these fever cases the pulmonary congestion may be at first acute, but it is very often complicated by a terminal stage of cardiac failure and paralytic dilatation of pulmonary vessels—in other words, hypostatic congestion. Turning to the acute congestion resulting from over-strain, Osier quotes the case of Renforth, the famous oarsman, who is said to have died of this condition due to excessive effort when rowing at Halifax; and there are similar cases recounted by Ollivier and others. Here, again, it is difficult to differentiate be- tween the active congestion from over-action of the right ventricle and the passive congestion, which probably accompanies cardiac failure and precedes death. There can be no doubt that the inhalation of excessively hot air or some irritating vapour may induce acute congestion of the lungs, Init the condition is in reality a bronchiolitis and