LUNGS, DISEASES OF—EMPHYSEMA 76 costal cartilages in addition to the emphysema, so that movement of the chest is poor. The chest may or may not be barrel-shaped, but is not usually much enlarged. The normal dul- ness of heart and liver is often diminished, but not invariably. The percussion note is hyper- resonant. There is often considerable bron- chitis present with crepitation at bases, or rhonchus and sibilus over the greater part of the lungs. Symptoms. — Emphysema is so frequently associated with, and the result of a chronic, bronchial, or pulmonary disease, that it is difficult to separate the symptoms from those of an inducing and primary complaint. For practical purposes the symptoms may be de- scribed as directly due to the mechanical con- ditions present. Owing to the distension of lungs, a large destruction of the pulmonary capillaries takes place, with a diminution of the capillary area. This necessarily produces a deficient aeration of blood and an obstruction to the pulmonary circulation. Dyspnoea is, therefore, the prominent symptom; and as the disease advances and a greater strain is thrown upon the right side of the heart, cyanosis will result, especially when there is not sufficient compensatory hypertrophy of the heart and the right ventricle dilates. The diminished pulmonary circulation induces a tendency to hypostatic congestion and to bronchial catarrh and bronchitis. In advanced cases, when compensation is deficient and the right side of the heart dilated, systemic engorgement follows, with the develop- ment of oedema of extremities, chronic engorge- ment of stomach, liver, and kidneys, ascites, and the usual accompaniments of cardiac failure. These extreme symptoms are far more rarely seen in the atrophic forms of emphysema. In these cases intercurrent attacks of bronchitis are frequent. In all stages dyspnoea is a prominent symp- tom, and in cases associated with bronchitis asthmatic attacks are not uncommon. Diagnosis.—Provided the examination of the patient is made with care and intelligence, there is no difficulty in most cases. The chief doubt occurs in the decision between primary and secondary cases of emphysema. It is occa- sionally a matter of great difficulty to decide whether the disease is one of emphysema following a winter cough and chronic bronchitis, or whether the case is one of tuberculosis associated with emphysema. Two classes of cases occur in which the diagnosis is a matter of some difficulty. If chronic tubercular disease of long standing is present, the lungs may become extremely emphysematous, and the true disease entii'ely masked. Vocal vibrations may be diminished, vocal resonance not increased ; the respiratory murmur perhaps harsh and expiration prolonged, but yet no evidence is obtained of any consolida- tion of lung. In the second class of case one lung is the site of chronic tubercular disease, and it is a question whether the opposing lung which is enlarged is emphysematous or is enlarged from a pseudo-hypertrophy. In cases of extreme contraction of one lung it is common for the opposite lung to expand by virtue of its elasticity and fill up the inter- vening space. This pseudo-hypertrophy can be distinguished from a compensatory emphy- sema by the following signs. In the former case the respiration is exaggerated, expiration is prolonged, and the breathing assumes the puerile type. When emphysema is present the air entry is diminished, and respiration is weak. At the same time dyspnoea is far more pronounced when the opposing lung, which is free from tubercular disease, is emphysematous. Treatment.—When we eliminate the treat- ment of associated bronchitis and of the symp- toms due to deficient cardiac compensation, very little special treatment is left for what is, after all, a permanent condition. Respiratory and cardiac stimulants are bene- ficial, and tonic treatment directed towards the improvement of general health is indicated. For emphysema alone, dissociated from pre- disposing symptoms, it may be said that the life should be one calculated to avoid all tendency to bronchial catarrh—a dry air, a warm climate, the avoidance of night air and damp, are advisable. Cod-liver oil and malt extracts are usually beneficial, especially where there is want of nutrition and in the senile atrophic cases. When there is excessive expectoration astrin- gent preparations and terebene, balsam of Peru, compound tincture of benzoin, and other balsamic and resinous drugs are of service. Dyspnoea is best treated by pulmonary stimu- lants, such as ether, ammonia, and strychnia In cardiac failure and engorgement of the right side of the heart, diuretics, digitalis, and in extreme cases even venesection may be necessary. Iodide of potassium is of great value in cases of spasmodic dyspnoea, but should be given with stimulating preparations. Counter-irritation to the surface of the chest and back is useful when there is an associated chronic bronchial catarrh. No account of the treatment of emphysema would be complete without a reference to the extreme value in some cases of aerotherapeutics. For many years compressed air baths have been in use at Brompton Hospital. The patient is placed for one hour or more in a chamber hermetically sealed, into which air is forced until the pressure is raised by 1 to 10 atmo- spheres. In the majority of cases immediate benefit is obtained—dyspnoea is lessened, and even the capacity of the lungs, and the patient