117 MALARIA widespread disease. Speaking generally, it occurs with increasing frequency and intensity as the equator is approached. The distribution does not remain constant; some places that are now salubrious were formerly malarious, and other regions that are malarious to-day formerly enjoyed a freedom from the disease. The reason for this will become evident when the etiology of malaria is considered. Our knowledge of the geographical distribution of malaria is very imperfect; for example, large districts are loosely described as being malarious, whereas in many instances it is only in limited spots in these regions that the disease can be contracted. With the institution of prophylactic measures in any malarious country it will be necessary, for economic reasons, in order to attain success to limit and accurately define these endemic areas. Fuller knowledge is also required re- garding the particular types of malarial parasites which are to be found in the different malarious regions. In Europe malaria is steadily decreasing, and its endemic areas are restricted. Civilisation with its attendant improvements in sanitation, in dwelling-places, in agriculture, in drainage of land, and also in the treatment and diagnosis of disease, has had much to do with this. Malaria exists, at the present time, chiefly in the countries bordering on the Mediterranean, and in the islands of the Mediterranean. It is found in Italy, Greece, most of the Balkan States, Turkey, Hungary, Southern Russia (particularly the littorals of the Black Sea, Caspian Sea, and the Sea of Azof), also in Sicily, Crete, Corsica, and Sardinia, the Ionian Islands, and the islands of the Grecian Archi- pelago. It is also found in Spain and Portugal, and to a slight extent in France, along its Mediterranean shore and the Landes, and in Germany in the valley of the Rhine. In Northern Europe it is met with on the shores of the Baltic. Belgium, Holland, and the British Isles are now practically free from the disease. It is still met with in Denmark. For the most part the malarial fever of Europe is benign in character; but during the summer and autumn months, at certain places, malignant forms of the disease are prevalent, namely, in the Campagna and Pontine marshes around Rome, in Lombardy, Tuscany, Greece, Corsica, and in some of the other islands of the Mediterranean. In Asia, malaria has a much more extensive distribution than in Europe. It abounds, with varying degrees of frequency and intensity, throughout India, Indo-China, Southern China, Burma, Ceylon, the Malay Peninsula, Borneo, Sumatra, Java, and other islands of the Dutch East Indies. As a rule, the higher altitudes enjoy an immunity from the disease. The disease tends to diminish in places which have come well under European sway ; good examples of this are to be found in the histories of Hong- Kong and Singapore. It is peculiarly infrequent in Japan. In tropical Africa malaria manifests itself in its worst form, and the West Coast of this continent deservedly enjoys the reputation of being one of the most malarious regions in the world. The East Coast and Central Africa have an almost equally bad reputation. In Northern Africa malaria is less prevalent; it occurs in Algiers, but to a much less extent than formerly, and some places in this region which a short time ago were malarious, are now regarded as health resorts. It also occurs in Egypt, especially lower Egypt, and in the low- lands of Abyssinia and Nubia. In South Africa the disease is uncommon until the Zambesi is approached. At Delagoa Bay it is both frequent and virulent. Madagascar, Mauritius, and Reunion are all intensely malarious. In North America the British possessions are practically free from the disease, but in some of the more southern States of the American Union malaria is both common and severe. It is especially prevalent in the States bordering on the Gulf of Mexico, and the Mississippi, namely, Alabama, Louisiana, Tennessee, Ar- kansas, Missouri, Illinois, New Jersey, and to a less extent in Pennsylvania, California, Florida, and Georgia. It is found also in the river valleys of some of the northern States, but less frequently. It is hardly ever met with at a point higher than 45° of latitude. In Central America the disease is very prevalent and malignant in type; it occurs on both the Atlantic and Pacific sides of the continent, including Mexico, Panama, and Guatemala. In South America malaria is found in the Guianas, Venezuela, Bolivia, the basin of the Orinoco, also in the valleys of Peru and Brazil, but in the highlands of these countries it is absent. In the West Indies it is less prevalent than formerly, but it occurs in most of the islands during certain months of the year. The continent of Australia enjoys a com- parative immunity from the disease ; it occurs, however, to a considerable extent in Northern Queensland. New Zealand, Tasmania, and many of the Polynesian islands are free from malaria. Parasitology The malarial parasites are protozoal organisms belonging to the class Sporozoa. The human and avian have been recently classified as follows:— Family: H^mamcebid^, Wasielewski. Genus I. : Hcemamoeha, Grassi and Feletti. The mature gametocytes are similar in form to the 'mature sporocyte& before the spores have been differentiated.