211 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF cases of mammary tuberculosis referred to by Delbet only two occurred in the male. According to Williams, every variety of tumour Jb'iG. 32.1—From the same specimen as Fig. 31. Less liiglily magnified. met with in the female breast has its counter- part in the male breast. As in the female, fibro-adenoma is the commonest of the simple tumours, although it is very rare. Of the car- cinomata about 2 per cent occur in the male. The tumour is almost invariably a typical cir- cumscribed scirrhus, possessing the same naked- eye and microscopic characters as in the female. The disease runs a similar course, but the pro- gress is slower. Several cases of epithelioma of the nipple have been recorded in the male. The treatment of mammary affections in the male is carried out on precisely similar lines to those in the female. Mammillaplasty.—The elevation, by operation, of a depressed nipple or mammilla. >S'ee PuERPERiUM, Pathology (Affections of Breasts, Anomalies and Defects in Conforma- tion). Manag'ement. — The care bestowed upon a sick person during the course of an ill- ness, including the giving of the various medical, 1 The writer desires to express his tlianks to the surgical staff of the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary and of the Chalmers Hospital for so generously placing at his disposal the greater part of the clinical and pathological material on which this article is largely founded. The material was investigated by the writer in the surgical laboratory of the University of Edinburgh, where he received many valuable suggestions from Professor Chiene. For the photo-micrographs he is indebted to Mr. Andrew Pringle of London, and to Mr. Richard Muir of the Pathological Department of the University of Edinburgh. surgical, therapeutic, and hygienic means that may be required—used especially of labour cases. See Labour, Management of ; New-born Infant {Management); Pregnancy, Management ; Puerferium, Physiology {Managemen t). Mandelic Acid. — An acid (phenylglycollie or hydroxytoluic, C^HgO,), obtained from amygdaline (the glucoside of the bitter almond) by heat and fuming hydrochloric acid. Mandel'S Test.—The formation of a precipitate on the addition of a 5 per cent solution of chromium trioxide to a solution which contains a proteid. Mandible.—The inferior maxilla. See Embryology, Human ; Mouth, In- juries AND Diseases of the Jaw (Man- dible) ; Palate (Congenital Malformations of the Mouth, Development of Face). IVIandragora.—The common mandrake (Mandrago7-a officinal-iim), whose root has a shape resembling that of the human form; it was commonly used by the ancients as a narcotic (weak tincture of the root), and the fruit was supposed to cure sterility; it contains an alkaloid (Mandragorine, Cj^HgjNOg) with the action of atropine. Its narcotic properties are referred to several times by Shakespeare (e.g. in Othello, " Nor poppy, nor mandragora, nor all the drowsy syrups "). Man ducat ion.—The action of eating, or chewing, or masticating (Lat. manducare, to chew). See Mastication. Mangfanesium.—Symbol, Mn; atomic weight, 54'52. It is official in the form of Potass II Permanganas, which is prepared by the interaction of potassium chlorate, caustic potash, and manganese dioxide. It consists of dark purple needles, soluble 1 in 20 of water. A very minute quantity of it gives a purple tinge to water. In solution it is rapidly deoxidised by organic matter, the solution changing colour to yellowish brown. Dose—1-3 grs., adminis- tered preferably in pill coated with kaolin or wax. Preparation—Liquor Potassii Perman- ganatis, a 1 per cent solution in distilled water. Dose—2-4 5. The following are some of the non-official compounds of manganese :— 1. Sodii Permanganas, contained in Condy's Fluid. 2. Calcii Permanganas, used in making mouth lotions as it has less taste than the potassium salt. 3. Zinci Permanganas, em- ployed as a lotion or injection where the astringent action of the zinc is indicated. 4. Manganesii Oxidum PrcEcijntatum, for internal administration, said to be less irritant than the permanganates. Dose—3-10 grs. 5. Manga-