MORPHINOMANIA AND 451 ALLIED DRUG HABITS makers adduce medical testimony as to the value of these coca wines in mental and bodily fatigue and in the treatment of nervous exhaus- tion, with sleeplessness and other affections." This in 1888 (B. M. J., 1888, ii. 1344). Or in 1893 on "Coca champagne," "presented in a form in which it may be used without any misgiving by all invalids, and by those who desire to avail themselves of its tonic and restorative powers. It constitutes a decided and laudable progress in what may be called dietetic therapeutics" {B. M. J., 1893, ii. 1219). They are further recommended as "containing a large proportion of the alkaloid," or " of unusual strength and concentration." This is the worst form of advertising. What wonder that Dr. Snow of Bournemouth feels called upon to write drawing attention to "the in- crease of intemperance amongst invalids from the enormous consumption of coca wines, some of these wines depending for their alkaloid from the leaves, but some with considerable quantities of the hydrochlorate of cocaine in them"; he says, " the patients not only be- come alcoholic, but it induces in them what Erlenmeyer calls ' the third scourge of liumanity,' the cocaine habit. They become nervous, tremulous, sleepless, with loss of appetite, and finally drift into pitiable neurasthenia" {B. M. J., 1897, ii. 1866). The effects of cocaine in varying doses, as very fully investigated by Dr. R. Stockman, is given in his " Report on Cocaine Alkaloids " {B. M. J., 1889, i. 1043). (1) Very small doses excite the sensibility and decrease motility; (2) larger doses cause a loss of muscular co- ordination—a loss in the power of movement from one place to another, while sensibility is entirely retained; (3) still larger doses cause diminution and ultimate disappearance of sensa- tion, the excito-motor power being never lost; (4) in fractional doses characteristic tetanus is caused. Mosso pointed out that it increased the body temperature (Mosso, Gbl. f. die med. Wiss., 1886, 372). Its continued use, as in the case of habit, where the tendency is to regularly increase the dose, brings about with comparative rapidity a state of profound mental and moral degradation. Amongst the first ill-effects are sleeplessness and anorexia, two conditions which in themselves are sufficient to undermine any constitution. To these are soon added headache, muscular inco-ordination, loss of memory, hebe- tude, eneuresis ; emaciation by this time is well marked, and constipation is always present. Soon delusions appear; they are usually those of persecution, and render the victim very un- happy. He shuts himself up in solitude, only to creep abroad in the depth of night or the stillness of the early dawn. Hallucinations are a constant symptom; these are both of sight, hearing, and common sensation, and Magnan first drew attention to a peculiarity of this latter as a pathognomonic symptom of chronic cocaine poisoning. Magnan's sign is an hallucination of feeling, as of foreign bodies—grains of sand, crystal, worms or microbes below the skin. The value of this sign is insisted on by Rybakoff, who has never found it in any other drug habit, nor in any other case of inebriety {3fun. med. Woch., 1896, 1175). Delusions and hallucina- tions are not far removed from downright in- sanity, and according to all observers with the largest experience, Ricord, Kerr, Mattison, these unfortunates, if not saved from themselves by having their liberty taken from them before it is too late, become insane, and when insane the great tendency is towards suicide. Insanity more frequently follows the cocaine habit than any other drug habit. Whatever little chance there is of the mor- phinomaniac breaking himself off his vice, there seems to be none for the victim of cocaine. His only chance is confinement in a home or asylum, and it is questionable if any one who has been addicted to cocaine, after recovery ever regains the mental condition which was his before his introduction to the drug. The treatment requires, more imperatively than for morphia, that the patient be absolutely under control in an institution from which he cannot escape nor get his drug, and where there are plenty of attendants to watch him and pre- vent him from doing himself injury. Decocain- isation should be by the gradual method. A steady reduction in the quantity of the drug taken should be made daily. Any attempt to suddenly withdraw it or very largely reduce the quantity is likely to be followed by alarming symptoms, mental and physical, mania and collapse. The greatest attention and care should be given to obtain sleep and nourishment. He must remain under care and treatment many months before he can be considered well enough to be trusted to take care of himself, and to voluntarily refrain from going back to his drug. Neil Macleod strongly advocated the treat- ment of both cocaine and morphia habits by enormous doses of sodium bromide up to gj. twice a day, producing thereby a profound bro- mide narcosis, from which the patient awakes, probably in violent delirium, but having lost the drug crave. He claims that (1) he can cure a case within three days by this treatment; (2) that there can be no possible deception practised by the patient; (3) the patient is sensible of no suffering; (4) it is not necessary to have any special home or institution for the treatment— the doctor with the aid of a nurse can carry it out at the patient's home; (5) there is no risk of substituting a second drug habit. That the habit is on the increase there is no doubt: this can only be determined by one's own observation, and close scrutiny of the