MENINGITIS, EPIDEMIC CEREBRO-SPINAL 326 occur with greater frequency. At the Boston City Hospital, from 1880 to 1896, there were 39 cases diagnosed as cerebro-spinal meningitis with a mortality of 59 per cent. It is interesting to note that during the first five months of 1897, when an epidemic began, there were 42 ad- missions—a larger number than in the pi-evious seventeen years. That the disease lingers in a city indefinitely after an outbreak has been the common opinion of all students of the disease, and any one who has had a large post-mortem experience has met with sporadic instances of extensive suppurative meningitis which he has not been able to regard as secondary to any existing condition. The Philadelphia records are interesting in this respect. As collected by Stille from 1863, the figures illustrate very well the periods in which there were slight outbreaks —namely, 1864-65 and 1872-73. Pepper com- jDleted the figures to 1892, and Abbott has sent me the figures up to date. They show from 1884 a progressive decline in the number of cases, which may in part have been due to more careful diagnosis. From that year, when there were 124 deaths, there was a gradual decline, and in 1891 there were only 23 deaths. From that year the figures as sent me by Dr. Abbott are as follows :—1892, 22 cases ; 1893, 35 cases ; 1894, 18 cases ; 1895, 17 cases ; 1896, 7 cases ; 1897, 10 cases; 1898, 24 cases; 1899 (to and including April 31), 89 cases. Here, again, it is interesting to see how quickly the epidemic prevalence of the disease is manifest. During 1898 the disease was not recognised as prevalent in Philadelphia. In 1899 a number of cases occurred, and the deaths during the first four months were 89. Bacteriology.—In 1887 Weichselbaum found an organism in cases of cerebro-spinal meningitis, resembling somewhat the gonococcus, which had special cultural peculiarities, and which he re- garded as the specific organism of the disease. These observations were confirmed by Jaeger in 1895, and within the past few years Councilman, ^lallory and Wright, Netter, Harris, and others have fully confirmed his observations. The organism, which is known as the diplococcus intracellularis, or the meningococcus, has a diplococcus form, and in the cover slips made from the exudate is found usually within the polynuclear leucocytes, many of which are stuffed with them. The organism stains with the ordinary reagents and is discoloured by the Gram method. It grows best on LofHer's blood serum, forming " round, whitish, shining, viscid- looking colonies, with smooth, sharply-defined outlines, which attain a diameter of one to one and a half millimetres in twenty-four hours" (Councilman). It is feebly pathogenic for animals. Heubner and Councilman have both produced typical meningitis by inoculating cultures of the organism beneath the spinal meninges of goats. In chronic cases the organ- ism may have disappeared, though we have found it as late as the forty-first day. The pneumococcus has been found frequently in association with it, particularly by French observers. It was found only once in my series. In a few instances tubercle bacilli have been found in the cases ; these are probably instances of tuberculous meningitis infected with the cerebro-spinal fever during the prevalence of the disease. A point of very special interest relates to the bacteriology of the simple menin- gitis of children. G. F. Still, in his study of the cases at the Great Ormond Street Hospital, isolated a diplococcus which conformed in every particular with the diplococcus intracellularis. Confirmatory observations have been more re- cently made by Thursfield, and from the clinical side by Saundby. The subject is one which deserves further study. Symptoms.—J/bc^e of Onset.—Cerebro-spinal fever sets in, as a rule, with great abruptness, and the patient complains of sudden headache or is nauseated or becomes sick at the stomach while at work or at play. These symptoms may be followed by a chill of great severity, or in children by convulsions. Certain special types of the disease have been described which may be referred to before the symptoms are discussed in detail. 1. The acute fulminant form, which appears to have been more common in the early epidemics. The patient may die in from ten to twenty-four hours, or may become comatose within a few hours after the onset. Death may occur before any exudate is present on the meninges, and the post-mortem may show only an intense hypersemia. 2. The intermittent and remittent type, characterised by a marked remission of the symptoms at the end of a week or ten days, and then a recurrence. Two or more of these intermissions or remissions may occur before recovery or death. Some of the cases suggest a definite relapse. 3. The chronic type, in which the disease persists for many weeks, or for three or four months. One of my cases lived ninety days. The patients become extremely emaciated, and usually die from exhaustion. 4. The abortive t}'pe. During the prevalence of epidemics, writers have described remarkable cases, in which, after an onset with headache, stiffness of the neck, pains in the limbs, fever, and even slight delirium, the symptoms subside at the end of twenty-four hours, and in a day or two the patient is quite well. The symptoms in detail may now be con- sidered. Nervous Symptoms.—Headache is one of the earliest and most constant features. It is often of a very intense character, usually frontal, but at times general, and of terrible severity, so that the patient cries aloud or screams at the slightest