72 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—GANGRENE absorption of the putrid contents of the bronchi in some cases, leads to gangrene. Pressure upon a large bronchus, due to aneurysm or malignant disease, leads to bronchiectasis and retention of secretions; or a large vessel may be occluded and general sloughing of the corresponding part of the lung may occur. Under these circumstances gan- grene occasionally follows. Perforation of bronchi from ulceration of a malignant growth of the oesophagus may produce the same result. Exte7ision of a neighbouring disease is some- times the cause of gangrene. An empyema will occasionally discharge itself by a sinus through the pleura and lung into a bronchus, and in rare instances the communication with the external air admits of micro-organisms which set up putrefaction and local gangrene. Similarly, the perforation of a gastric ulcer, when the stomach and diaphragm have pre- viously become adherent, leads to the entrance of food contents into the pleura and pulmonary tissue, and to their ultimate decomposition. Lastly, trmmiatic injuries of lungs or perfora- tion of bronchi, especially in case of wounds received in battle, may become gangrenous, especially when the subject of the wound is debilitated or suffering from some morbid con- dition. (3) Septic or putrefactive organisms are in- troduced either through the blood-vessels, the lymphatics, or the bronchi. Examples of the introduction by means of the circulation are seen in cases of septictemia, septicsemic typhus fever, pygemia, puerperal fever, caries of bone, and other infective diseases, such as erysipelas, enteric fever, measles, diphtheria, and so on. In all these cases it is probable that the septic emboli are due to the association of several micro-organisms. A specific micro-organism has been described as the cause of acute spreading gangrene, but in other cases the disease has not been assigned to a special organism, though it has been asserted that the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, when injected into animals, will produce gangrene. In most cases, whatever the source of the infection, the organisms or the emboli are conducted through the venous circulation to the heart and are thence impelled into the pulmonary circulation. When food is inhaled, or when a perforation of a gastric iilcer into a bronchus occurs, it is probable that, after decomposition of the food or gastric contents, the lymphatics are the medium of spread of the putrefactive organisms. It is difficult in some of the cases described above to be certain of the path of communica- tion of infection. When the bronchi contain offensive secretions the extension may be direct or throiigh the medium of the lymphatics. The same difficulty occurs in cases of exten- sion from without, such as occasionally follows a sinus through the diaphragm from abscess of liver or the causes mentioned above. In all cases, putrefactive or septic organisms find an entrance, whether directly or through the medium of lymphatics, blood channels, or bronchi. Pathology.—The early description of Laennec defined two forms of gangrene of the lungs— the circimiscribed and the diffuse. Later ex- perience has shown that it is not always possible to discriminate between the two forms. As a rule, the appearances are those of two zones — the necrotic gangrenous area and a surrounding inflammatory zone. The gangrenous portion of lung as a rule consists of a cavity filled with foetid, semi-solid, partly decomposed, shreddy lung tissue, or of liquid pus. The contents are usually of a greenish-yellow colour, but may be brown or black according to the amount of admixture of blood. When a cavity is formed the walls are irregular and (under water) appear shreddy and frayed. In the diffuse form the greenish-yellow tissue gradually blends with the healthy lung tissue. When gangrene is circumscribed it is sur- rounded by an inflammatory congested area, or the lung in the neighbourhood is pneumonic. Occasionally, in chronic cases, a gangrenous cavity is surrounded by black fibroid walls and a pseudo-cyst is formed, much resembling cases of cavitation in chronic pulmonary tuberculosis. Symptoms. — No symptoms are pathogno- monic of the affection. In the absence of foetor of the breath and expectoration it is impossible to do more than suspect the presence of gan- grene. Even under these circumstances it is possible to be mistaken, as some other conditions produce foetor. When in the course of pneumonia, bronchi- ectasis, tubercular disease of lungs, and other conditions the onset of sudden prostration is observed, with high temperature, rigors, and sweating—and if these symptoms are associated with the sudden appearance of foetor of expec- toration and breath—the occurrence of gangrene may be suspected. Sometimes foetor is absent, and in such cases the only other constant sign is the marked prostration of the patient. The temperature is not always raised abnormally, and sweating is a variable symptom; the expectoration in typical cases is extremely characteristic. The odour is extremely offensive, described some- times as fajcal but differs somewhat from that of bronchiectasis. (See also " Bronchiectasis.") The secretion is very similar to that of bron- chiectasis. It settles, on standing, into three layers : the upper frothy, the middle of greenish or brown tint according to the amount of blood present, and the lowest of similar colour or even darker, and containing a sediment. The con-