MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 188 papilliform or foliaceous ingrowths, which are covered with an epithelium continuous with that of the cyst wall (prolife7-ous cysto-adenoma). These soft, rapidly-growing fibro - adenomata, whether simple, cystic, or proliferous, have been regarded by many writers as sarcojnata, and have been described under such terms as adeno- sa7'coma, cysto-sarcoma, and adeno-cysto-sarcoma ; but Schimmelbusch, Marcus Beck, and Raymond Johnson have pointed out that neither micro- scopically nor clinically have these tumours any right to be regarded as true sarcomata. Just as there is no evidence that the stroma ever develops into a true sarcoma, so also there is no proof that the epithelial elements ever become carcinomatous. The term malignant adeiioma, which has been applied by Halstead as an alter- native name for the type of tumour described by him as adeno-carcinoma, is, therefore, an unfortunate and misleading one. The fibro-adenomata never invade the capsule and infiltrate the surrounding tissues ; they never become adherent to the skin or pectoral muscle; and they never cause retraction of the nipple. The axillary glands, although they are occasionally enlarged from irritative connective- tissue hyperplasia, are never malignant, and secondary growths never occur in distant parts. In the instances of so-called recurrence, the tumour which develops after operation is either a second tumour which has developed de novo, or is the result of the continued growth of a tumour which was too small to be detected at the operation. Like all simple tumours, fibro- adenomata are occasionally multiple, but are seldom at the same stage of development when detected. As a group, the fibro-adenomata are met with most frequently between the ages of twenty and forty, the average age being twenty-nine ac- cording to Gross, and thirty according to Williams; they are very rarely met with before puberty or in old people. The least complicated forms are generally met with before the age of twenty-five, while the cystic and proliferous varieties occur generally during the fourth and fifth decades. Their growth is usually slow, so that after several years the tumour is seldom larger than a hen's egg. Not infrequently, however, the tumour suddenly takes on a more rapid growth, and this applies more especially to the cystic forms with intracystic growths. Pain is usually absent: in some cases, however, especially in the small, hard fibro-adenomata, the patient complains of severe lancinating and radiating pains, which are intensified by manipu- lation and by the friction of the clothing. The writer has several times observed Pacinian cor- puscles in the breast tissue, and it is possible that the neuralgic-like pain, which is associated with these so-called irritable tumours, is the result of pressure on these bodies. The hard fibro-aderionm is generally a small, firm, smooth or slightly-nodular, distinctly en- capsulated, and therefore well-defined tumour, which can be moved about within, and inde- pendently of, the breast tissue. The mobility of the tumour, apart from the breast, at once serves to distinguish it from a scirrhus, from a localised inflammatory induration, or from a cyst. It may occupy any part of the breast, but is more frequently superficial and peripheral than embedded in the centre of the organ. On section, the cut surface becomes convex and has a dull-white or faintly-pink colour. The gland spaces here and there may be dilated into small cysts, or they may take the form of irregular and slightly-branched clefts. In all probability, the majority of fibro-adenomata develop from epithelial buds, which have become accidentally dissociated from the rest of the gland during the centrifugal budding process by which the organ is developed (Fig. 12). Fig. 12.—Slice through half a flbro-adenoma (natural size) re- moved from a woman, Eet. 35. The tumour, treated with nitric acid, shows how the glandular elements are grouped around the ducts which radiate from the centre of the tumour toward its capsule. These ducts do not open upon the sur- face of the tumour, and therefore have uo connection with the ducts of the breast. The arrangement here shown seems to prove that the tumour is the result of the independent growth of epithelial elements, which became dissociated from the rest of the gland during the centrifugal budding process by which the organ is developed. The soft fibro-adenomata are generally large, and they are more elastic than the hard variety. The cysto-adenomata are characterised by their lobulated outline, and by their still more rapid and often fitful increase due to the enlargement of the cysts. Their consistence varies at different parts, and fluctuation can generally be elicited over the smooth rounded surface prominences. When the cysts reach close to the surface the skin over them may have a bluish tinge. The j^roliferous cysto-adenomata may grow to an enormous size. Most museums contain specimens as large as a child's, or even as an adult's, head. In such cases the breast tissue is pushed aside and generally atrophied beyond recognition. The skin over the tumour becomes stretched and marbled with dilated veins; ulti-