MATZOON 220 the action of a ferment (exact nature unknown) upon sterilised cow's milk; it has been used, diluted with water, for infant feeding. See Milk ; Infant Feeding ; etc. Maunoir's Hydrocele.— A cystic growth, often congenital, occurring in the neck, behind the angle of the jaw; hydrocele of the neck. Mauthner's Test.—A test for colour vision consisting of a number of bottles filled with different pigments. See Colour Vision {Methods of Testing, Pigment Tests). Maw - Worms. — Thread -worms. See Parasites {Nematodes, Ascaris). Maxilla.—The jaw-bone, upper or lower. See Mouth, Injuries and Diseases of the Mouth and Jaws ; Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflammation of {Maxillary Sinus). Maydl'S Operation.—The implanta- tion of the ureters into the rectum in cases of ectopia vesicfe. See Bladder {Extroversion). Mayhem.—A legal term meaning the infliction of bodily injury upon a person so as to render him less able to defend himself; it is connected etymologically with maim. Mayol.—A preparation used for preserving meat and said to consist of alcohol (ethyl and methyl), boracic acid, glycerine, and fluoride of ammonium. Mayonaise. See Invalid Feeding {Cookery in Diabetes, Mayonaise Sauce). MazalysiS.—Retention of the placenta (Gr. fxa^a, a cake), as opposed to mazolysis, separation of the placenta. Mazzoni's Corpuscles.—Peripheral end organs of sensory nerves, resembling those of Krause. Mead. See Alcohol {Spirits, Alcoholic Animal Prodwcts). Meals. See Diet ; Ewald's Test Meal ; Food ; Infant Feeding ; Physiology {Food and Digestioti) ■ etc. Means.l See Vital Statistics {Determina- tion of Longevity, Mean Age at Death, etc). Measles. Prevalence ...... 220 Type and Fatality . . . .221 Spread and Infectivitt .... 221 Incubation and Course .... 222 Analysis of Symptoms-- Ervption...... 223 Catarrh . . . . . .223 Glandular Affection . . . .224 Temperature . ... 224 Analysis of Symptoms {contd.)— Pulse and Respiration . . .224 Deliriu,m...... 224 Aberrant Forms ..... 224 The Pulmonary .... 225 The Toxic 225 Complications 225 Pathology . . . . . .226 Prognosis 227 Diagnosis ...... 227 Treatment ...... 228 See also Brain, Inflammations {Acute Enceph- alitis, Etiology); Bronchi, Bronchitis {Acute, Etiology); Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Exanthe- matoiis Conju7ictivitis); Disinfection {QuMran- tine); Epidemiology {Seasonal Fluctuations); Foot and Mouth Disease {Diagnosis in Human Subject); Fourth Disease ; Heart, Affections of Myocardium and Endocardium {Simple En- docarditis, Etiology); Hip-Joint, Diseases of {Pyogenic Diseases); Infection {Periods of Ab- serice from School); Leucocytosis {Leucopenia); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Pi-edisposing Factors, Bronchitis); Meningitis, Tuberculous {Eti- ology) ; Meteorology' {Seasonal Prevalence of Disease); Nephritis {Etiology); Nose, Post- nasal Adenoid Growths {Etiology); Nose, Ac- cessory Sinuses, Inflammation of {Etiology); Purpura {Symptomatic, Infectious); Rubella ; Scarlet Fever {Diagnosis); Typhus Fever {Diagnosis). Synonyms : Morbilli ; Fr. Rougeole ; Ger. Maseru. Measles is a specific infective fever, attended with a characteristic macular eruption, and widespread catarrh, affecting chiefly the respira- tory, nasal, and ocular mucous membranes. Prevalence.—Measles may be said to be endemic in most parts of the world, though by no means equally prevalent. It is liable to sudden epidemic extensions, the recurrence of which in certain European communities, at any rate, is characterised by striking periodicity. In isolated communities the disease will occa- sionally die out altogether, but after the lapse of some years, during which a susceptible population has been growing up, the importa- tion of a fresh case is liable to result in a fresh outburst which may rapidly assume pandemic proportions. This was well illustrated in the case of the Faroe Islands, into which, after an immunity from measles lasting sixty-five years, the disease was reimported in the year 1846, with the result that in the course of five months more than three-fourths of the entire population were attacked. And the same thing in even more marked degree was seen in Fiji in the year 1875, when the disease was imported into the country, it is supposed, for the first time. In this instance so extensive was the outbreak, and so rapid its spread, that more than one-fourth