155 MALINGERING and so will the ccrebro-spinal centres lose tone by a prolonged disuse. Hence we see here the process of feigned mental disease inducing real pathological mental conditions similar to the morbid physical conditions induced by a prolonged invalidism and confinement which, assumed and voluntarily incurred at first, may lead to phthisis through the degenerating influences at work. It is this real danger to the malingerer himself which constitutes one of the chief reasons why we should practise the early detection of feigned conditions. A certain mystery of method is an important element in the searching for evidences of malingering; and it is well, when inquiring into a suspected case, to wear a mask, so to speak, by disguising one's special object' and interest in the matter in hand. In this way we put our subject off his guard. If we allow ourselves to evince amusement at a ridiculous and compromising action or statement, the malingerer will cease to play his part freely, and he may "mask" his performance. But as our great object must always be to induce a malingerer to over-act his drama, we must bring this about by very subtle and diplomatic means, which must never be apparent to the impostor until he has so extravagantly overdone his part as to himself appreciate that he has betrayed himself to us in his over-confidence. A very direct and logical cross-questioning of the subject as to his subjective symptoms should be practised, as thereby most ridiculously dis- connected statements will often be obtained, whilst by a demeanour which shows no sign of our commencing incredulity, the schemer may be gradually led into a veritable ambush in which he will entangle himself in his incongruities. Great personal responsibility must at times be courageously borne by the practitioner who aims at becoming expert in unravelling and upsetting malingered plans, since there are occasions when we have to form our opinion firmly and to take appropriate action on the spot; as where the writer was convinced that a malingering convict would still further malinger when undergoing corporal punishment conse- quent on his most disorganising and flagrant pretended self-injuries and insubordination, and the man persisted in this up to the time of his being sentenced to the " cat." This man be- came pale with the first three strokes of the punishment, a natural consequence of the shock. But to this pallor he added the appearance of syncope, or, indeed, of a condition to suggest to the lay mind death. He created a very terrible spectacle. The writer being prepared for any degree of imposture in this case, caused the lashes to be arrested while the man's pulse and conjunctival reflex were examined, and while he in various ways corroborated a pre- formed opinion as to the malingered nature of the display. The punishment was then allowed to recommence. Another heavy lash of tlie cat was responded to only by the inert human mass shaking to the weight of the blow, lying there limp and motionless strapped to the flogging triangle! Another lash was ordered and yet another, when suddenly the man stretched his muscles and swore at the doctor, and com- menced to sing a vulgar popular song, which he continued until the end of his allotted number of lashes, bearing the punishment without any further signs of undue inconvenience. Of course this is an example of an extreme case of assumption of responsibility, but had it been shirked an epidemic of malingering would have followed the success of that notorious impostor. In other very definite ways one has sometimes to risk one's reputation on one's opinion, and he who will not take this risk need not hope to be successful in upsetting malingered plans. Apart from the possibility of a wrong diagnosis, which should not terrorise us if we have experience and use sound jvidgment in the cases in question, we have always to take the infinitesimal risk of some new and sudden lesion arising to put an undeserved aspect of error upon our diagnosis; as when an undoubted and ridiculous malingerer, who had acknowledged his fraud, subsequently, while still in hospital, lapsed into a comatose state, and died of a small aneurysmal rupture in the base of the brain. In the military and naval services and in prisons it constitutes a large part of pure duty that the doctors should acquire, and, boldly if cautiously, use a wide experience in arresting malingering ■ and, of course, officers in these spheres of practice have the opportunity of gaining this kind of expertness. On the other hand, the general practitioner has not the same inducement of duty to inculcate an ever-present readiness to detect and combat imposture. Nor can he have the same opportunity of seeing numerous cases ; nor can it be demanded of the family doctor that he should attack malingering with such courage as ought to characterise public servants. Most cases of unchecked malingering are so, merely because a critical stage is reached in the plan of detection or upsetting, where the doctor becomes unduly timid. Cowardice comes into play when only extreme caution should be added to the same firm demeanour which has gone before., We are actually now treating of a method of scientific procedure which might well be termed detective medicine," and finesse, astuteness and proper valuation of small indica- tions only lead up to the stage where, so to speak, an actual "arrest" has to be made ; and then the point is reached where great moral courage and readiness to assume heavy responsi- bility must sometimes come into play. In checking and giving one's final opinion upon insane malingering the highest degree of this courage is called for, so great is the responsi-