MIND, EDUCATION OF THE 426 no other source is known than the nuclei or granules found there in its earliest stages. Elements intermediate between these granules and the fully developed cells are always found, even in mature brains, and therefore it is inferred that the latter are derived from the former. The appearances there lead also to the con- clusions that many elements stop short of complete development, and that the number which might develop in any given case is far beyond the number that actually does so, and that the characteristic appearance of the cortex in the various localities depends on the expansion of dissimilar layers of the primitive granules." It is necessary to remember that the senses act on the brain in such a manner as to cause a change in it, and as a result the nerve cells become more developed. As regards the motor area, modifications of it change the correlated musciilar reaction in health in a normal way and in disease in an abnormal manner. With respect to the fibres of association, their develop- ment is accompanied by a marked change in the cortex, and it is known as the child grows older the number of these fibres becomes increased. In fact, without these fibres we could have no memory, association of ideas, and motor action. Dr. Flatau says (2): "The main function of the association fibres is probably psychical. They appear the most fitted to form the anatomical basis for the association processes of perception, thought, and will." From what has been observed, it appears necessary that the sensory tract of the brain must be well developed, because all thought and imagination, if rigidly analysed, will be found to rest on this sensorial area. There is no doubt that the education of the young should begin by the education of his special senses, and it seems probable that as the sensory cells develop by exercise, the association fibres leading from them to other parts of the brain will increase in number. All authorities who have studied the subject lay stress on the importance of training the senses. Comenius says: "First the senses should be exercised, then the memory, then the understanding, and lastly the judg- ment." Canon Daniel says : " Children are not sufficiently required to use their senses. They are allowed to observe by deputy. They look at nature through the spectacles of books, and through the eyes of the teacher, but do not observe for themselves." Dr. Seguin, to whom belongs the honoi;r of having created the true method of teaching idiots and imbeciles, in his books strongly impresses upon his readers that the education of the senses must precede the education of the mind, and defines his method as "the adaptation of the principles of physi- ology, through physiological means and instru- ments, to the development of the dynamic, perceptive, reflective, and spontaneous functions of youth." According to modern views the education of the senses does educate the mind, for it is impossible to educate any special sense without altering or developing the nerve cells of the brain which control that sense. The senses are educated by means of different concrete objects, for all development of know- ledge is from the concrete to the abstract. The system of kindergarten teaching depends upon developing knowledge from the child's playful activity, and making use of the common objects by which he is surrounded, objects and actions being arranged in a connected manner. The kindergarten gifts serve not only to satisfy the child's desire for play, but also as influences for knowledge as to form, colour, material, number, and names. By this system the faculty of observation is exercised to distinguish likeness from difference; and the powers of thought are exercised in arranging sticks or strips of paper, and in imitating the form of models, and making variations of these, opportunities being- made use of by the teacher to impart informa- tion as to the qualities and properties of objects in daily use. In this way is originated the foundations of the knowledge of arithmetic and mathematics, reading, grammar, literature, and the physical sciences. Later on the child imi- tates outlines and forms and written language, and so gradually learns drawing, painting, and history. The local surroundings give rise to experiences by means of which geography, natural history, and botany may be taught. Our mental ideas begin by being object-ideas,, and pass by stages into subject-ideas. Froebel's maxim was "Learn by doing." The child should handle the objects for himself, and describe what he sees; and when nothing further can be discovered, the teacher should make suggestions and give information, the child afterwards proving the truth of the sug- gestions and information which have been im- parted to him. Dr. Karl Lange says that anyone who has seen children properly taught "knows how far their energetic learning is from a simple, passive reception, and that not the teacher, but they themselves have the most to perform." The word education of itself shows that the child is not simply a vessel which has to be filled, but an organism which has to be supplied with digestible and easily assimilable food. In order to train the senses objects must be made use of to educate the sense of smell, taste, touch, hearing, and sight. To train the olfactory sense, cinnamon, cloves, pepper, caraway, as- safoetida, flowers and perfumes will be found useful, and the gustatory sense can be trained by fruits and food of various kinds. As regards the sense of touch, smooth substances such as silk, and rough substances such as wood, will be found of use, and so will the surfaces of various fruits. With respect to auditory train- ing, life in the country is desirable, as indeed