104 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF condition give an index of the difficulty of under- standing it. Among them are adenia, lymph- adenia, lymphogenic diathesis, lymphadenosis, lymphoma, lymphomatosis, pseudo-leukfemia, lymphosarcoma, and the non-committal Hodg- kin's disease, after the physician who first described it. The clinical features of the disease are well enough known, but its cause is quite unknown; and while the naked-eye morbid appearances have been often described, there is practically no agreement as to the nature and explanation of the histological changes involved. But the greatest difficulty is in regard to the diagnosis not only intra vitam, but post-mortem also, from the three conditions named above. For example, one excellent observer describes fully a case which he regards as a lymphosarcoma — in his eyes the most active form of lymphadenoma—which appeared to me, from his description, to have been possibly a case of myelaemia (spleno- medullary leucocythaemia) in which, as a result of secondary infection, the leucocytes had greatly decreased in number, and become altered in their relative proportions. And yet this ob- server uses this very doubtful case as a peg upon which to hang a complete classification of all the diseases showing chronic enlargement of lymphatic glands. Again, there seems no doubt that two enlarged glands may show identical histological appearances, and yet the one may contain tubercle bacilli and be caused by their action, and the other be as certainly not tubercular. Further, some of the more actively growing lymphadenomata have a struc- ture indistinguishable, apparently, from that of the less active sarcomata. In view of these facts, it is hardly to be wondered at that it is sometimes impossible, or next to impossible, during life to make an accurate diagnosis of the pathological condition which is present. This chaos will never be reduced to order luitil there is a much more general appreciation in the profession of the importance of blood ex- aminations, and of the methods of making them, for in most of these cases the clinical diagnosis turns ultimately upon the condition of the blood, and it is precisely in this particular that many of the clinical records are lamentably deficient. It is very difficult to give a description of the clinical features of lymphadenoma, because the classical accounts were penned at a time before the difficulties of the pathological diagnosis were fully appreciated, and it is difficult to make up one's mind as to which are the essential features of the disease, and which the accidental. It is a disease mainly of the earlier half of life, and attacks males more frequently than females. No definite predisposing cause is known, though all the conditions which make for bad health have been accused in turn. The actual cause is also unknown, but the disease seems often to be preceded by some irritation in the skin or mucous membranes near the glands first affected. The disease first shows itself by an enlargement, slow, painless, non-suppurating and non-caseat- ing, of the lymph-glands of one region, almost always the cervical to begin with. This pro- gresses until it has reached the supraclavicular glands, and thence the process passes to the axillary glands of the same side and the cervical glands of the other side by the chain of vessels and glands which I have described in the fore- going table. Gowers believes that the next glands to be affected are the inguinal, then the retroperitoneal, bronchial, mediastinal, and mes- enteric ; and it is certainly true that the inguinal glands are the next which one can feel to be en- larged, but it is in direct contradiction to all we know of lymphatic spread to suppose that such a process could jump from the cervical glands to the inguinal, without affecting those between ; and everyone knows how difficult, nay, how im- possible, it is to be sure clinically of slight enlargements of the thoracic and abdominal glands, and one is often surprised—in leucocy- thaemia, for instance—to find, post-mortem, great enlargement of these glands which one had, at the most, suspected during life. Probably the process extends from the cervical glands to the mediastinal, thence to the bronchial on one hand, and on the other to the retroperitoneal, from which it passes again dichotomously to the mesenteric and iliac, and so to the in- guinal. During this time the patient may remain in fair health, but towards the end of it he will begin to feel weak, to emaciate, to show ir- regular rises of temperature or a more con- tinuous pyrexia. He will suffer fi-om dyspepsia, vomiting, and diarrhoea; from breathlessness, a quick, feeble pulse, and a steadily advancing anaimia, with all the symptoms consequent thereon. The glands go on enlarging, and give rise by their pressure on important organs or tissues to various symptoms, which naturally differ in individual cases, and enlargement of the organs themselves commences, in particular of the spleen and liver, and often of the tonsils, thymus, ovaries, testicles—of any organ, in fact, which can be made to contain lymphoid tissue. Complications of various kinds, usually due to intercurrent organismal infection, may occur, such as pneimionia, erysipelas, empyema, and may carry the patient off; but the natural ending of the disease is a steadily advancing cachexia and anaemia. The enlargement of glands usually leaves them discrete ; but sometimes, especially among those first affected, they may grow into one mass, or show some periadenitis, and, as a result of infection, localised suppuration or necrosis may occur. General suppuration or caseation stamps the condition as tubercular. Glands may appear in unusual places—the