MEDICINE, FORENSIC 263 of adults while in a state of drunkenness, and the latter in young children who sleep in the same bed along with the father and mother. Smothering may, of course, be homicidal. The post-mortem appearances consist, as a rule, only of those common to all forms of death from asphyxia, hence the difficulty of proving the crime. Signs of a struggle and marks of violence are to be expected if the deceased was able- bodied and capable of offering resistance. In cases of overlaying there is often flattening of the nose, or one side of the face may be pale and flattened owing to pressure, thus indicating the cause of the asphyxia. But, apart from such external signs, the post-mortem appearances are not characteristic, blood-stained froth at the mouth and nose, petechial ecchymoses in the conjunctivae, pleurae, and on the surface of the heart, fluid blood, and congestion of internal organs being signs all consistent with death from convulsions as well as from overlaying. An exception might perhaps be made in re- gard to the presence of blood-stained froth issuing from the mouth and nostrils, as in a very large number of post-mortems in cases of death from convulsions I have rarely if ever seen it, whereas in overlaying it is a very common and most characteristic appearance. Asphyxia, the result of breathing irrespirahle gases.—All gases which do not permit of the oxygenation of the blood will cause asphyxia, but practically those which most commonly cause fatal results are COg and CO. Carbonic acid (COg) may cause death owing to the products of combustion from a fire or stove passing into a room, either from there being no outlet, or by down-draught in a chimney or flue; from escapes of the gas from old coal workings travelling through the ground and passing into the cellars of houses, and thence to upper apartments; by men entering wells, sewers, brewers' vats in which the gas has accumulated, or from sleeping in proximity to lime-kilns, and as a result of explosions in mines. Death occurs from pure asphyxia, due to the COo preventing a sufficiency of oxygen gaining access to the blood. Unconsciousness is quickly produced, while if the amovmt of COg present is large, almost instantaneous loss of muscular power and unconsciousness may be produced ; vomiting sometimes occurs. The external post-mortem appearances are : congestion and cyanosis of the head, neck, and face, froth in the mouth and air-passages—often deeply blood-stained—very marked and extensive post-mortem lividity, which is of a deep purple colour. Petechial ecchymoses may be present in the skin and other tissues. Internally, the appearances are those charac- teristic of typical death from asphyxia. Carbonic Oxide (CO).—Carbonic oxide most frequently produces death owing to escape of ordinary lighting-gas, and more especially is this dangerous if it has received an admixture of water-gas (as is now frequently the case), which increases the proportion of CO very con- siderably. CO is also a product of incomplete combustion, and hence may cause fatal accidents where gas-heating arrangements are used, or where, in slow combustion stoves, the stoves or flues are defective. It is a product of explosions in mines, and may also be the cause of death in the burning of buildings. Asphyxia is produced owing to a stable compound being formed between the haemoglobin and CO (carbonic oxide haemoglobin), thus mechanically preventing the haemoglobin acting as an oxygen-carrier to the tissues. It is a cumulative poison, the blood, even when small percentages are present in the atmosphere, gradually becoming more and more saturated until death ensues. Carbonic oxide haemoglobin is characterised by a bright pink colour, which is very distinct in dilute blood solutions, and which produces a corresponding pink colour of the post-mortem lividity patches. Its presence in blood may be definitely determined by means of the spectro- scope, since although it gives rise to two bands somewhat similar to the spectrum of oxy- haemoglobin, yet, in the case of the latter, these bands can be transformed into one broad band (reduced haemoglobin) by means of a reducing agent, e.g. ammonium sulphide, whereas the combination of carbonic oxide and haemoglobin is more stable, and is not affected by the ad- dition of such reducing agents, the two bands between the lines D and E still remaining distinct. The symptoms are dizziness, increased respira- tory and cardiac action, nausea and vomiting, drowsiness, muscular weakness, coma. The post-mortem appearances are chiefly a bright pink colour of the post-mortem lividity patches, and also of the blood throughout the organs and tissues of the body, together with the ordinary appearances of death from asphyxia. The treatment of both COg and CO poisoning consists in providing plenty of fresh air, inhala- tion of oxygen, artificial respiration, stimulation and warmth (see also "Asphyxia," vol. i.). Rape 263 Pregnancy ...... 265 Delivery 265 Abortion ...... 266 Infanticide ...... 267 Examination of Blood-Stains . . 269 Rape.—Rape is the carnal knowledge of a woman by force and against her will. By the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1885, any person who has carnal knowledge of a girl under 13 years, with or without her consent, is guilty of a felony, while the attempt is a mis- demeanour. Any person who has, or attempts