475 MUMPS, OR EPIDEMIC PAROTITIS comfort is experienced. There is usually a good deal of pain radiating towards the ear; the mouth cannot be opened more than half an inch or so, and chewing, and even swallow- ing and speaking, are rendered difficult. The head is held stiffly, on account of the pain caused by movements of the neck, and there is general tenderness over the parotid and other salivary glands. As a rule, however, we find that the gland first affected has begun to subside before its neighbour has reached its maximum, and the swelling gradually diminishes, and disappears in from a week to a fortnight of its onset. In most cases there is little constitutional disturbance, the temperature being 99° or 100°; at times it reaches 102° or 103°, but almost always falls rather abruptly to normal a day or two after the parotitis shows itself. There is sometimes slight desquamation of the skin over the affected glands after the swelling subsides. While the above is a general outline of the course of an ordinary case of mumps, there is such variability in its symptoms, and its possible complications are so numerous, that we must look at them in a little detail. In almost all cases both parotids are affected within a very short interval of time—indeed, this is the sign on which we rely when the diagnosis is doubt- ful—but sometimes the inflammation remains limited to one side, and sometimes the second parotid is not involved until several days or weeks have elapsed. Again, the submaxillary and sublingual glands do not always become inflamed, while, on the other hand, they alone may be the seats of infection, or they may be enlarged only after the parotid swelling has subsided. There is seldom any actual com- plaint of interference with the function of the glands, but in a good many cases the secretion of saliva is diminished, and sometimes dryness of the mouth is a distressing symptom. Occasionally the saliva remains normal in quantity and tends to collect in the mouth, while hypersecretion, with salivation to the extent of eight or ten ounces in a day, has been recorded. There is a certain amount of pharyn- gitis and tonsillitis, but it is rarely possible to get the mouth open sufficiently to see the swelling and oedema of the buccal mucous membrane. Stomatitis may also occur. There is not infrequently some swelling of the cervical lymphatic glands. The parotitis almost invari- ably subsides completely, bvit the enlargement may become chronic and remain for months; this, however, like suppuration, is very rare. Complications.—Severe and complicated cases of mumps occur almost exclusively in persons above twelve, and many of them have been recorded in adults. The following are some— the list does not claim to be exhaustive, since new names are constantly being added to it— of the sequelae of the disease. (1) Local Affections.—Suppuration is very rare, while it is common in secondary parotitis. Gangrene of the parotid has been observed in two fatal cases, and abscess of the cervical lymphatics may also occur. Cellulitis of the floor of the mouth and oedema glottidis have been reported. All these must be regarded as due to an accidental infection. In this category we ought, strictly speaking, to place otitis media and some cases of facial paralysis, but these will be more conveniently referred to later. (2) Metastatic Inflammations of other Glands, especially those connected with reproduction.— It is difficult to account for the comparative frequency with which inflammation of the parotid gland is associated with abdominal disease (and in this connection it must be remembered that the testicle is an abdominal organ). We see such an association not only in mumps where such conditions occur second- arily to parotitis, but also conversely when we have a secondary parotitis arising in the course of typhoid fever, gastric ulcer, gastric cancer, appendicitis, after laparotomy, etc. The most frequent and important complication of mumps is orchitis. This occurs most commonly in adolescents, and the body of the testicle, not the epididymis, is affected. Orchitis may develop about the third or fourth week from the onset of the disease ; it runs an acute course of about a week, and terminates in resolution or atrophy, suppuration being uncommon. Wasting, however, is not infrequently rapid, and the organ may diminish to the size of a bean in a few weeks. There is occasionally some effusion into the tunica vaginalis, urethritis, oedema of the scrotum, and enlarge- ment of the inguinal glands. The left testicle is said to be most frequently affected. When orchitis develops there is always a recriidescence of the constitutional disturbance, with fever, etc. In some cases these general symptoms are severe, and prostration, high fever, and delirium may precede or accompany the orchitis, while in other cases a slow pulse aud subnormal temperature have been observed. In addition, signs of intracranial mischief may develop, and some of the nervous sequelse to be described may mask the orchitis for a time. In rare cases the inflammation of the testicle may precede the parotitis. In the female, ovaritis and salpingitis, oedema of the vulva, mastitis, or enlargement of the inguinal glands may occur, and while orchitis is seen only in adolescents or young adults, these affections may be seen in quite young female children. Acute pancreatitis has recently been described. During his convalescence from mumps a lad of ten developed acute abdominal symptoms, and as these subsided a hard mass could be felt in the region of the pancreas. (3) Nervous Symptoms. — Apart from the delirium, etc., due to toxsemia, various complica-