161 MALINGERING Mr. H. T. Butlin, in Lancet, 1871, vol. i., quotes a case where a girl, seven and a half years old, had sickness, purging, and bowel pains, blood and jelly passed by bowels, con- vulsions, rolling of eyes, rigid limbs, screams, frothing at mouth. Eventually she promised "never to do it again." Thus we see even young children may simulate cleverly. A case is on record where a woman for more than twelve years sustained a composite simu- lation, with the following feigned manifesta- tions : hfematemesis, gastralgia, vomiting of substance like liver and of bone, passing bone from vagina, symptoms of hepatitis, epilepsy, amaurosis, aphonia, deafness, paralysis of arm, gravel, anasarca, dyspnoea, retention of urine, and hydatid simulacra were passed per vaginam made from pigs' intestines ! Extra-uterine foeta- tion was diagnosed amongst other diseases at one time. Jaundice and clay-coloured stools have been recorded as simulated by painting the skin with tinct. rhei, and by taking daily small quantities of muriatic acid. But the yellow conjunctives cannot be feigned. Few can be astute enough to produce the three signs of pale stools, dark urine, and yellow skin. With digestive anomalies suspected to be feigned, some very nauseous "stomachic tonic" may be tried; but prisoners, at any rate, become fond of the small variety in life pro- cured by a nasty medicine, and the writer has often had men come to the surgery and ask for a dose of " choke-me-ofF " ! Tumours.—Pregnancy is often feigned; of course the foetal heart should be heard in ad- vanced cases. Pillows and pads are used to simulate the condition. Phantom tumours can be detected often by long continued pressure over the abdomen, which at last causes the rigidly-contracted muscles to yield. But an anaesthetic is most useful. Mr. Pearce Gould, F.R.C.S., records, in Lancet, 1888, vol. i., a case of two "tumours" in a young woman's jaws, one of which " had been growing for three years "; the other, a smaller and, presumably, more recent one, was on the other side. These were found to be two balls made up of calico strips sewn into rounded masses, the one as large as a Tangerine orange, the other the size of a walnut. They were held between the cheeks and jaws. Cancer of the breast was simulated in a case quoted by Pigray from Fodere, where a young woman presented herself to a king of France to " be touched." Pigray found a slice of spleen had been so ingeniously fixed on the part as to be " le mieux simule et contrefaicte qui se puisse voir." Fatty tumours are sometimes attributed to simple blows. Speech.—Aphonia is poorly mimicked unless by some true neuromimetic patients. It is generally easy to detect by finesse. VOL. VI Aural.—Deafness is generally simulated in only one ear, and can be detected by confusing the malingerer by asking ordinary questions, unrelated to his "deafness," while we close the sound ear unostentatiously by pressing the tragus over the external meatus. These schemers are really very easy to outwit, if only they are distracted from the immediate subject of which they are complaining. Of course we must examine the parts and look for ruptured tympana, catarrh, and so forth : but mere scien- tific investigations do not go far in these sub- jective complaints, as the feigners are not simple enough to co-operate with our science. Honey has been introduced into the external meatus to simulate otorrhoea, cantharides to excite inflammation, and rancid oil and other odorous substances to produce a foetid character. Nasal.—Simulations of polypi have been re- corded, where foreign matters, such as pieces of animals' flesh, have been forced into the nares. Such are not common. Ocular.—The writer has had cognisance of very obstinate factitious diseases of the anterior part of the eyes produced by various irritants, such as lime, brick-dust, etc. Acute conjunc- tivitis, keratitis, iritis of a most virulent type have been produced by some prisoners who dis- liked work, and this condition being cured, and the men having been sent back to work, has returned in some cases immediately hard work was encountered. Tramps are specially prone to simulation. These men appear to be congenitally lethargic, and they will often endanger any organ, or even their lives, rather than consent to steady, regular labour. Some of the most inveterate self- injurers the writer has met with have been Polish Jews. Jews of the lower orders are said also to be prone to hysterical manifestations. Double blindness was once only feigned in the writer's experience, and the eyes having been ophthalmoscopically examined with a negative result, the youth was "cured" by being carefully prepared for an " operation " on the eyes. Much parade was made of many assistants and of many formidable-looking in- struments. As the writer approached the " blind man " with a rather excessively ponder- ous scalpel, vision suddenly returned, and the youth asked if he might just try to see if he could get up and work. He did. Strabismus is occasionally simulated by men who are otherwise assuming what they suppose to be the semblances of "weak mind" and of a low physical type. Simulated refraction errors can be detected by a skilful use of the ophthalmoscope. (?enifo-wrmary.—Renal colic is feigned often, but the proper reference of the pain to the testicle is not always properly described. Nor do we see rigors well simulated, nor the sweating. Calculus is sometimes weakly simulated by 11