NAILS, AFFECTIONS OF THE 520 Argyria.—In this condition the nail-bed may be affected, but the nail itself is never involved. Pellagra, which is due to toxic bodies formed in damaged maize, the nails are sometimes thickened and brittle, the skin of the forearms and hands also suffering. Gonorrhoea.—Shedding of the nails has been observed in this disease, associated with corni- fication of the skin, probably of toxic origin. Etiology.—This has already been incidentally touched upon in the course of the foregoing descriptive survey, as to need little additional detail. In diseases of the nails, it is often very difficult to trace effects to their cause or causes, for the reasons given; in some the factor at work can only be guessed at. Pathology.—I have referred to some of the pathological changes, but for fuller details the works of Heller and Unna may be profitably consulted. Diagnosis.—This subject also has been dealt with in a general way under the various head- ings, but in this connection the fact again must be insisted upon that the same nail-changes occur in different diseases, and one and the same disease may lead to a variety of nail- changes. In the diagnosis, therefore, all the facts should be taken together—the duration, the mode of development, the distribution (symmetrical or otherwise), the state of the nails and the number affected—that is to say, the case should be investigated on general principles. The patient should be thoroughly examined — skin, hair, and so forth. The history of previous illnesses, including skin affections, the general condition, including age, occupation, nationality, race, etc. Previous treatment should be inquired for, and it is as well to examine the urine. In the case of skin eruptions, syphilis, leprosy, and so forth, the diagnosis may be easy ; at any rate the inference that the nail condition is connected with morbid processes present in the skin or a constitutional taint, is justifiable. The possibility of accidental association, however, must not be lost sight of. An examination of the nail-scrapings in old- standing disease of one or more nails should always be made, where the nails are alone affected. The modus operandi has been de- scribed in section x. A negative result, except after prolonged soaking and repeated examina- tion, would not positively exclude a fungus origin. I have found mycelium in cases where negative results had led to the exclusion of ringworm, but it requires some patience. In some obscure and anomalous cases a diagnosis cannot be made at all qud cause. The results of treatment, such as the effects of mercury in suspected congenital syphilis, would be a help in cleai'ing up doubts. The numerous details which it would be necessary to enter into to thoroughly treat the matter of differential diagnosis would occupy too much space to be dealt with in the present article. Suffice it to say that if the descriptive portions, together with the above remarks, are carefully read, errors in diagnosis will be reduced to a minimum. Prognosis. — This is an important matter, from the patient's point of view. Nail diseases generally are obstinate. In some cases, nothing can be done {epidermolysis bullosa, some injuries, etc.). In the most favourable cases prognosis as to time and eventual recovery must be guarded. Perseverance in the treatment is a great factor. As a rule, where recovery is possible, it is very gradual. Treatment.—This may be divided into general and local. As to the former, the patient must be treated as a whole on general principles — cod-liver oil in scrofula, iron and tonics in anaemia, mercury and iodide of potassium in syphilis, and so on. The beneficial effects of appropriate feeding, sunlight, air, change of scene, exercise, etc., need scarcely be insisted upon in the case of individuals suffering from lowered nutrition, depression, and so forth. The nails and extremities may require pro- tection from cold and heat, or the patient may have to give up an unfavourable occupation, for a time, at least, as in irritant dermatitis. The matter of foot-gear must not be over- looked : ill-fitting boots and shoes must be put aside, and replaced by articles made on common- sense principles. Sandals, with uncovered feet, would in some cases be useful where circum- stances permit. In congenital and hereditary affections, treat- ment is reduced practically to protection of the nails and fingers from injuries (including irritating fluids, etc.). Cuts, Crushes, Splinters, Hcemorrhages.— Whitlows must be treated on the usual surgical principles. When pus forms under the nail the tension must be relieved by cutting or scraping away the nail substance and liberating the pus, followed by the application of iodoform (or of one of its odourless substitutes, europhen, loretin, etc.). As to general diseases, they have already been referred to. In diseases of the skin, treatment of the general condition is essential. This cannot be gone into here, but the reader will find all details under the diseases themselves in this Encyclopedia. My remarks must be limited to the local measures to be adopted for the nails. In onychogryposis the nail must be softened in hot water, to which soda, potash, or soap can be added, and its superfluous portions removed. For this purpose a saw or bone forceps will be found useful. What remains can then be filed down smooth. When the nail is very loose, it can be removed bodily,