MALARIA 123 a veneno-salivary gland (Fig. 15, h). A duct arises from each gland, and as they pass for- ward the two unite to form the common salivary duct, which enters the proboscis at the base of the hypopharynx. The malarial sporozoites are found chiefly in the middle lobe. The abdomen has nine segments, and contains part of the alimentary canal, the dorsal blood- vessel, the neural cord, and the organs of generation. The alimentary canal consists of pharynx, oesophagus, middle intestine, large intestine, and rectum. It is in the wall of the middle intestine (stomach so-called) that the malarial parasite passes through its various table juices. It is possible that this is their usual food, blood-sucking being more or less an acquired habit. When a mosquito bites, before commencing to suck blood, it injects some of its saliva so as to promote a flow of blood to the bitten spot, or to prevent coagulation which would other- wise be a hindrance in haustellation. This saliva acts as a powerful irritant to most individuals, but the irritation is less if the mosquito be allowed to suck for some time than if it sucks for a few seconds only; it is thought from this that most of the saliva is taken up again with the blood. Probably the FIG. 6.—Ovaof ^rii a, A. claviger; b, A. bifurcatus. ¥ia. 7.—Larva of Anopheles. stages of development. This structure has three coats, namely, an outer fibrous, a middle muscular, and an inner modified epithelial. The muscular fibres of the middle coat are arranged in transverse, oblique, and longitudinal layers. Mosquitoes are for the most part nocturnal in habit. In the day time they seek out cool, calm, and shady spots, where they rest, coming out to feed and lay their eggs after sunset. Although this is the rule, on cloudy days, and in dense forests into which the sun does not penetrate, mosquitoes are often active and bite freely. 1 The female alone is the blood-sucker, but she, as well as the male, can live on vege- th f mosquitoes undoubtedly habitually bite during saliva is necessary for the digestion of the blood in the stomach of the mosquito. After a full meal, the insect is sluggish, torpid, and dis- inclined to fly. Contrary to what was formerly the popular belief the mosquito feeds many times during its existence. The life of a mosquito varies in length, an average length being from thirty to fifty days ; the males are shorter lived than the females. In places where there is a cold season a certain number of impregnated females hybernate in sheltered spots, such as cellars, caverns, and in the dark corners of houses and outhouses, and in this way the continuity of the species from year to year is ensured. Mosquitoes can be bred in captivity without difficulty. All that is required is a suitable