519 NAILS, AFFECTIONS OF THE The disease is practically limited to the big toes, usually the outer side. It is a very pain- ful and troublesome affection, the ulcer which forms secreting a fetid sanious discharge, fol- lowed by exuberant granulations. XII. Anomalous and Obscure Affections of THE Nails.—Now and then morbid changes in the nails are met with, which are not connected with either a general or a skin disease. At any rate the nails are, as far as can be made out, the only parts affected, and as no cause can be discovered, the conditions are referred to as idiopathic, which does not help us very much. I have thought it well to place such affections in a group by themselves. A case of this kind came under my own care, and as the details may be of interest, I will here record them. The patient was sent to me by Dr. Percy Edmunds of London. She was a young German woman, aged thirty-one. Three months before I saw her the njiils of the right- hand began to get pink half-way up, and gradually became longitudinally striated. The left finger-nails then went through the same process, until all the finger-nails became longitudinally ridged, brittle, and uneven (wavy) on the surface. The two big toe-nails were also affected (six weeks). In them the lunula areas were flaky, rough, and discoloured, the nails beyond being normal. Both little toe- nails were absent—they had never been of much account; and some of the other toe-nails were more ridged longitudinally than usual. Associated with the nail-changes, I noticed some canities: many white hairs mixed with the black ones on the right eyebrow ; the eyelashes on the outer side of the right upper eyelid were white ; there were also three tufts of white hairs on the right side of the scalp, viz., near the fore- head, just in front of the right ear, and near the neck behind the ear. There was nothing definite in the general health or history to account for the nail-changes. The marked symmetry and the short duration in such a case might be taken as indicating some central nerve origin, a so-called trophoneurosis, but this is quite hypothetical ("? spinal metamerism). Other cases of symmetrical affections of the nails are on record, in which other changes about the extremities were also present (numb- ness of finger-tips, thickening of terminal phalangeal joints, etc.), but in which no cause could be made out, and the nervous origin assumed as the only explanation. Dystrophy and increased curvature of the finger-nails, without clubbing, I have seen associated with premature baldness and grey- ness, but without any tangible cause to account for the nutritional changes. Another type is the loosening of the finger- nails from their bed {decollement neuropathique des angles). The detachment commences at the free edge and may travel down as far as the lunula. The nails themselves are moderately thickened, yellowish, and dirty - looking from the accumulation of dirt beneath them. All the finger-nails may be affected, but similar changes have also been observed in the toe- nails. Both sexes suffer. The separation takes place rapidly, all the nails being affected in the course of a few months. It may go on for long periods, varying in intensity. Here, again, a nerve origin has been invoked. Acland records a case of this kind. The detachment may be partial and affect certain fingers only of both hands symmetrically. Suhiongual hoemorrhages may occur apparently spontaneously. The haemorrhages take place quite apart from scurvy, tabes, injuries, or any other discoverable cause. Heller gives the details and drawing of such a case. Seven of the finger-nails were affected. Haemorrhages into the nail substance itself have also been seen. In the case of a female patient of feeble intellect, the subject of hemi- plegia, haemorrhages occurred at the root of all the nails into the nail. The ecchymotio patches eventually grew out with the nails, and the latter grew quite well again. In this instance the haemorrhages coincided with an attack of hemiplegia. XIII. Malignant Disease of the Nail.— This is very rarely met with. Jonathan Hutchinson, junior, has recorded a case of epithelioma of the nail. The patient was a man of seventy, and the disease had existed for several months, but for nearly twenty years there had been occasional inflammation with formation of pus under the nail. Part of the nail was apparently healthy, but it was found to be really undermined by the cancerous growth, which also involved the subjacent bone. XIV. Subungual Exostosis. — This may lead to changes in the toe-nail, but as the con- dition is a little beyond the scope of this article, it will not be insisted on in this place. XV. Intoxications.—Arsenic.—This drug is eliminated through the hair and nails, and in poisoning by it the latter may be variously affected and even shed. Bruce Clarke observed suppuration occur about all the finger- and toe- nails, leading to their detachment from their bed, in a case of arsenical poisoning. In a case of generalised arsenical pigmenta- tion, Mansurow noted that the nails had a brownish tint, which appeared to be due to the lemon-yellow hue of the borders of the nail-cells. I have seen exaggerated longitudinal ribbing in most of the finger-nails in arsenic keratosis. In the recent Manchester epidemic of arsenical beer poisoning, the great majority of the patients presented no visible alteration of the nails. Ab- normally rapid growth occurred in some cases; when this took place spasmodically wavy trans- verse ridges were formed. In others, longitudinal striae and subungual hyperkeratosis occurred.