527 NECK, REGION OF shallow, or so deep as to reach the spine. The great vessels of the neck usually escape. This is explained by the depth at which they lie, and by the protection afforded to them by the larynx and sterno-mastoid muscles. The signs depend on the depth and site of the wound. In certain situations, as over the larynx, the bleeding may be insignificant. On the other hand, when the cut is above the hyoid bone, the lingual or facial arteries may be severed and, when below the cricoid cartilage, the inferior thyroid arteries and thyroid veins. If the great vessels are involved the patient generally dies within a few seconds. As regards damage to other structures, when the wound is above the hyoid bone the tongue and hypoglossal nerve may be divided, when it involves the thyrohyoid membrane the superior laryngeal nerve and the epiglottis may be cut. Food or saliva escaping from the wound indi- cates that the pharynx or oesophagus have been injured. When the air-passages have been opened into, more or less loss of voice occurs. This is complete if the vocal cords are involved. In many cases much embarrassment of breath- ing is present. This may be caused by the tongue falling back, by partial separation of the upper and lower portions of the windpipe, by displacement of the cut epiglottis, or by blood getting into the air-passages. Besides the immediate dangers due to shock, bleeding, and asphyxia, secondary complications exist: such are oedema, glottidis, bronchitis, and broncho - pneumonia, cellulitis extending into the mediastinum, and surgical emphysema. (Edema glottidis is naturally more liable to occur when the wound is above the cords. If haemorrhage or alarming dyspnoea is present these conditions must be first attended to. If severe hsemorrhage has taken place, transfusion of saline fluid is indicated in all cases. As re- gards the wound, much depends on the case. The surgeon will be influenced by its site, its character, and, above all, by whether he thinks it will become septic or not. If possible it should be closed—the wounded trachea, carti- lages, etc. being sutured at the same time. Drainage is generally required. In very many cases it is safer, and in some instances absolutely necessary, to insert a tracheotomy tube in the windpipe for several days. In such cases, if the wound is below the thyroid cartilage, it may be made use of. In other cases a high tracheotomy should be performed and the origi- nal wound sutured. If the oesophagus is injured it should be sewn up, but a drainage tube should always be left in the wound. In the after-treat- ment of cut throat care must be taken that apposition of the parts be assisted by maintain- ing the neck as far as possible in the position of flexion. Needless to say, no suicidal case should ever be left alone. Inflammatory Affections.—Cellulitis.—This is met with in varying degrees, most commonly as the result of a septic wound and after scarlet fever or diphtheria. The symptoms and treat- ment are the same as those of cellulitis in other parts. Angina Ludovici.—This is a peculiar and very severe form of cellulitis, beginning gener- ally below the jaw in the submaxillary region, and extending rapidly downwards and to the middle line of the neck. By some it has been termed submaxillary cellulitis. It occurs under- neath the deep fascia and is attended by marked constitutional disturbance. Great swelling is nearly always present, and the tongue is very often pushed upwards and backwards so as to cause difficulty in swallowing and in breathing. This is one of the most characteristic features of the disease. Much brawny induration exists, the skin becomes oedematous and discoloured, and considerable sloughing usually takes place. The cellular tissue soon becomes infiltrated with extremely foul pus which may burrow widely. The patient frequently succumbs within a few days from septic intoxication or from oedema of the glottis. The source of infection is some- what obscure, but in many cases it is most probably of buccal origin. The treatment con- sists in early and free incisions, usually in the middle line of the neck, followed by warm fomentations. Tracheotomy in many cases may be required. Boils occur in the neck as elsewhere, and a very favourite seat for car- buncle is the nape of the neck. Abscess.—Both acute and chronic abscess occur. The former is usually the result of acute in- flammation of lymphatic glands that have ab- sorbed septic material from the mouth, throat, or elsewhere. Acute inflammation of the lower jaw is also responsible for a certain number of cases. As has been pointed out in describing the fascia, pus in the deeper parts of the neck may extend into the mediastinum or into the axilla. For this reason, both in acute and chronic abscesses pus should be evacuated as soon as possible. Chronic abscesses are usually the result of the breaking down of tubercular glands or of tubercular disease of the cervi- cal vertebrae (chronic retro-pharyngeal abscess). Retro-pharyngeal abscesses are deeply seated in the neck, although as a rule easily palpable from the mouth. They are best opened through the neck by Hilton's method, as first pointed out by Chiene. By so doing the risk of sepsis is considerably diminished. The opening is made just posterior to the sterno-mastoid. An empyema may rarely point in the neck. BuBSvE are occasionally met with. They occur only in the front of the neck and in two situations, viz., in front of the larynx or above it between the back of the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage. They are generally, but not always, of small size, move with the larynx in swallowing, and are lined with endothelium.