LUTEOLIN 92 Luteolin.—A yellow matter (C20H24O3) obtained from weld {Reseda luteola); from its oxidation liiteolein is produced. Luxation. See Dislocation, and cross- references. Lyca,nthropy.—A form of insanity in which the person affected imagines himself to be a wolf and shows lupine characters (Gr. AuKos, a wolf, and av^pwTros, man). Lycetol. — Dimethylpiperazine tartrate (CgHj4N2C4.HgOo), recommended in gout and the uric acid diathesis in doses of 15 to 45 grains. LyCOpodium.—A pale yellow, tasteless, and odourless powder consisting of the spores of club-moss {Lyco2wdium clavatum), used as a dusting powder, as a desiccant, as a basis for insufHations, and to prevent pills adhering to each other ; it contains a fixed oil and an alkaloid {lycopodine, C32H52N2O3); it is official in the U.S. Pharmacopoeia but not in the British; if set fire to, it burns with a slight explosion and no smoke. Lye. See LixiviATiON. Lying-in.—The puerperal state, e.g. the lying-in room is the chamber occupied by a woman who has recently been confined, and a Lying-in Hospital is a Maternity Hospital. Lymph. See Fluids, Examination of Pathological (Normal and Abnormal Lymph) ; Leucocyth^mia ; Lymphatic System, Physi- ology AND Pathology of ; Ovaries, Diseases of (Broad Ligament Cysts) ; Physiology, Blood AND Lymph (Lymph); Thymus Gland (Status Lymphaticus); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases OF (Lymph Scrotum); Vaccination. Lymphadenectasis.—A tumour due to the distension of the spaces in a lymph gland. Lymphadenia. See Lyjiphatic System (Lymphadenoma). Ly m p il ad e n it i S.—Inflammation, acute or chronic, of the lymphatic glands. See Lym- phatic System (Lymp)hadenitis). Lymphadenoma.—A morbid state in which the spleen and the lymphatic glands are enlarged, in which there are nodular growths in the liver, lungs, spleen, etc., and in which at a later stage anjemia (without leukajmia) de- velops ; it is related in some way with leucocy- thtemia, with tuberculosis (glandular), and with lympho - sarcoma. See Bronchi, Bronchial Glands (Morbid Anatomy., in Lymphadenoma); Hodgkin's Disease ; Liver, Diseases of (Lym- phadenoma) ; Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology (Lymphadenoma) ; Pruritus (Catisation); Vvrpvra (Syinptomatic, Cachectic); Spleen, Medical Affections of (Splenomegaly); Thymus Gland (Diseases). Lymphadenosis. See Lympha- denoma. Ly m p h SLgOg U es. — S ubstances which cause an increase in lymph-production with or without an accompanying increase in blood pressure. See Fluids, Examination of Patho- logical (Transudates and Exudates). Lymphangiectasis. —Dilatation of the lymphatic vessels; lymphangioma; lym- phatic varix. See Lymphatic System, Physiol- ogy and Pathology (Dilatation of Lymphatics); Tumours of the Skin (Lymphangiectodes, Lym- phangioma circumscriptum). Lymphangio- Endothelioma.— An endothelioma (q.v.) originating in the lym- phatic vessels. Lymphangioma. — A congenital or acquired tumour consisting of dilated lymphatic vessels and lymph - containing spaces. See Capillaries, Diseases of [Angioma); Lym- phatic System, Physiology and Pathology {Diseases of Lymphatic Vessels); Peritoneum, Tumours of {Lymphangiomata); Tumours {Con- nective Tissue Type, Lymphangiomata). Lymphangioma Tuberosum Multiplex. — A rare disease of the skin, first described by Kaposi, characterised by the appearance of pigmented papules or tubercles, consisting of dilated lymphatics in the skin of the trunk, LymphangiO-Phlebitis. — Inflam- mation affecting both the lymphatics and the veins. LymphangiO - Sarcoma. — A tu- mour containing the elements of a lymphangi- oma as well as of a sarcoma. Lymphangitis.—Inflammation of the lymphatic vessels. See Filariasis (Pathogenetic Effects, Lymphangitis); Groin (Diseases, Affec- tions of Lymphatic Glands); Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology (Diseases of Lym- phatic Vessels). Lymphatic Glands. See Axilla (Anato7ny of, Glands) ; Glandular Fever (Clinical Featxhres); Groin (Anatomy of. Glands); Groin (Diseases of. Glands) ; Leuco- CYTHyEMiA (Symptoms, Enlargement of Glands); Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology (Anatomy, Diseases, etc.); Physiology, Blood (Sources of the Blood Constituents); Physiology, Circulation (General Arrangement, Lymphatic Pressure); Rheumatism, Rheumatoid Arthritis (Clinical Characters, Lymphatic Glands); Tuber- culosis (Lesions of the Various Organs, Lym- phatic Glands).