LUNGS DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 54 bedroom should be large and airy. The window should be kept open, less or more according to the season. Indiscriminate spitting on the streets and in public places of resort and public conveyances should be forbidden by bye-laws. It is high time that such expectoration should be branded and treated as a nuisance. If the circulation of instruction regarding the disease were properly carried out, the public would speedily recognise the propriety of such bye-laws. Suitable pro- vision (spittoons) ought to be made in public places for the prevention of this as of other kinds of nuisance. Municipalities, county councils, and other local authorities must be awakened to their responsibility in the matter of prevention. In view of the nature, extent of distribution, and preventability of the disease, it is not too much to ask that, in the absence of state legislation, those authorities should safeguard the interest of their respective communities as much as possible. The Public Health Department should be prepared to receive and afford infor- mation and assistance in respect of the disease. This should include the establishment of an hospital for the reception and treatment of the more advanced cases, at least, among the poorer classes; and in towns more particularly, a dis- pensary at which the consumptive poor should be entitled to apply for advice and treatment. Means should be available for attendance on bed-ridden patients, not otherwise attended at their own homes, when hospital accommodation was not available. The department should issue and circulate printed instructions regard- ing prevention and disinfection. It should undertake the disinfection of bed-clothes and garments and of all rooms occupied for long periods by consumptive patients, either after removal or death. It should undertake the examination and reporting on all suspected expectoration and other discharges. It should require immediate intimation from the district registrar regarding deaths from tuberculosis within the area concerned. Provision ought to he made in all asylums, poor-houses, and similar institutions for the separation and suitable treatment of patients suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis. Although the disease is probably not directly induced through the introduction of tuberculous milk or meat, yet the possibility of its being thus acquired must not be overlooked. Because of this, it is not out of the way to insist on the necessity—a necessity which exists still more in relation to abdominal tuberculosis—that the local authorities should have ample power to examine all milk supplied within their boundary. This examination should include, when desirable, testing examination of the cows yielding the milk, and even the byres and dairies. The risk of inducing the disease from the use of tuber- culous meat is a small one; it is best removed by the appointment of thoroughly qualified men as meat inspectors. Notification.—There has been a good deal of difference of view manifested on this point. Un- fortunately, neither medical nor public opinion is sufficiently ripe in the LTnited Kingdom to admit of the immediate institution of compulsory notification. Xone the less, notification seems the sound and logical solution of the tuber- culosis problem; that it will come in some form, as the public become better acquainted with the facts, admits of little doubt. Voluntary notification, which has been tried successfully on various plans in different places, is a step in the right direction. The experience of New York is remarkable. So far back as 1893 notification was required in that city of cases of consumption in public institutions, and was requested from doctoi's regarding cases in their private practice. The records of the experiment are highly suggestive. There were notified in 1894, 4166 cases; in 1895, 5818 cases; and in 1896, 8334 cases. The experience of these years led the Health Board of New York to declare pulmonary tuberculosis an " infectious and communicable disease," and to require "the notification of all cases of consumption occurring in the city." Much has been said regarding the disabilities and hardships which would acci ue to the individual if any system of notification were adopted. It is manifestly right that all such disadvantages should be estimated and sufficient weight attached to them ; but there is a risk of their being exaggerated and thereby the main issue blurred. Is notification likely to assist the authorities in dealing effectively with a disease which is responsible in the United Kingdom for 60,000 deaths per annum ? If it is, there seems no valid reason why it should not be adopted in some form. B. Private Measures. — It is of the first moment that every individual should under- stand that consumption is not got by exposure to cold. The bogey of "catching cold" has done infinite harm and has led to the institution of protective measures, which have in turn been the cause of the disease. The freest access of sunlight and oi fresh air, both day and night, ought to be courted by the individual. These conditions are doubly serviceable. They in- crease the resisting power of the cells of the respiratory organs and are directly inimical to the tubercle l)acillus. Bedrooms, sitting-rooms, school-rooms, offices, work-rooms, assemlily rooms, public conveyances, all require the same treatment. No bedroom should be slept in without the window being open, and the more widely the better. It is a prevailing fallacy to suppose that because a room is large the windows may remain shut. Such a room only harbours a greater volume of soiled air. The