MENINGES OF THE CEREBRUM 310 of pus in this situation may be very consider- able, but only rarely is pus found in the substance of the dura, although the inflammation has in some cases spread to the deep layer of the dura and even to the pia arachnoid. The dura mater limiting the abscess cavity is fi-equently thickened. The symptoms of extradural abscess are very indefinite, and are usually obscured by those of its cause (trauma, otitis media, etc.). Head pain and tenderness of the cranium on pressure are often present; the pain is usually local, but may become generalised ; fever, rigors, rapid pulse, vomiting, delirium, convulsions may occur. Where there is a large collection of pus, symptoms of local cerebral compression may appear, e.g. where the affection is in the region of the motor cortex, there may be spasm or paralysis of the opposite limbs. The treatment will naturally be (1) that which is required by the injury or disease, of which tlie inflammation is a secondary result; (2) the measures used in meningitis generally (ice-bag to head, leeches, blisters, purgation, etc.); and (3) where an abscess has formed and can be diagnosed, immediate evacuation of the pus by trephining. Surgical interference may also be required in a non-purulent case, in order to re- lieve the head pain or the subsequent epileptic condition. (i) Internal Fachy meningitis.—A purulent form occurs, but it is nearly always secondary to inflammation either of tlie pia arachnoid or, more rarely, of the outer layer of the dura. It is doubtful if it ever occurs as a primary con- dition, and no special group of symptoms can be assigned to it. A pseudo-membranous inflammation of the lining membrane of the dura is also described. Osier has seen a characteristic example in pneumonia. The condition known as hfemorrhagic internal pachymeningitis has already been considered. 2. Inflammation of the Pia Arachnoid (Lepto- meningitis) Etiology (including Bacteriology) . 310 Morhid Anatomy .... . 310 Symptoms ..... . 311 Course ...... . 312 Convplications ..... . 312 Prognosis ..... . 312 Diagnosis ..... . 312 Treatment ..... . 313 (a) Acute Simple Meningitis (Purulent Meningitis) Etiology. — Apart from extension of the inflammation from a cerebral abscess, purulent meningitis is usually associated with one of the following conditions :—(l)/tywry to the skull. (2) Adjacent disease, especially that of a suppur- ative nature. Of much the greatest importance is chronic suppurative otitis media, with necrosis of the petrous portion of the temporal bone {vide " Ear") ; less often, diseases of the nose, frontal sinus and orbit. (3) The acute fevers and more general infective conditions, especially pneumonia, empyema, erysipelas, ulcerative endocarditis, pyaemia, and septicaemia; less often typhoid fever, smallpox, influenza, scarlet fever, etc. (4) As a terminal infection (Osier) in chronic nephritis, arterio-sclerosis, gout, heart disease, and the wasting diseases of children. Like tlie forms of meningitis already con- sidered, purulent meningitis is caused by the invasion of micro-organisms. Even in cases due to injury, without an open wound, it is probable that the trauma acts simply by lowering the resistance of the tissues and thus allowing the more ready growth of the organisms. The possible modes of introduction of the infection are (1) direct, from a neighbouring focus of inflammation, as in compound wounds of the skull; (2) by emissary veins—sinus thrombosis not infrequently precedes the development of meningitis; (3) by the lymphatics ; and (4) by the general blood stream from distant foci of infection, as in septicaemia. There can be little doubt, we think, that the great path of invasion in cases of meningitis of the base is from the naso-pliarynx, through the Eustachian tube and the middle ear. In this connection it is im- portant to remember that otitis may be present without otorrhcea. On the other hand, cases of vertical meningitis, especially where the anterior part of the brain is mainly afi^ected, are in all probability often due to invasion of organisms from the nose along the lymphatic channels, which have been shown to pass through the cribriform plate from the nasal mucous mem- brane (Key and Retzius). Different micro-organisms have been found in the exudate in diff'erent cases, and some are undoubtedly specific ; it is probable that we shall yet be able to associate diff'erent clinical forms of purulent meningitis with differences in the bacteriology. The organisms most usually found are Fraenkel's pneumococcus and the streptococcus. The pneumococcus is found especially in meningitis of the convexity, often bilateral, and it may be associated with acute pneumonia or not. Osier believes that most cases of so-called sporadic meningitis are prob- ably due to it. The streptococcus is usually found in cases due to trauma, ear disease and the general septic conditions, also in many cases of ulcerative endocarditis and in the terminal meningitides (Osier). Other organisms have, however, been found in the exudate, although less frequently—the staphylococci, the typhoid bacillus, the influenza bacillus, the gonococcus, etc. Morbid Anatomy.—Purulent meningitis may affect mainly the basal or the cortical meninges, but much more frequently the latter. The