186 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF the opposite breast is also painful, but to a less degree. The pain, which is described as intense and burning, starting, or shooting, is usually inter- mittent, and worse during the menstrual period. It may be localised or general throughout the breast, and it frequently radiates towards the root of the neck, the axilla, and down the inner side of the upper arm. In most cases the pain is greatly aggravated by handling the organ, and sometimes the slightest touch sets up a severe paroxysm. In those cases in which the pain is always referred to the same spot, care- ful palpation may reveal the presence of an indurated lobule, or small cyst, and there is often evidence of chronic lobular mastitis elsewhere throughout the breast. Occasionally, a subcutaneous neuro-fibroma will be found to be the cause of the pain. The first point to attend to in dealing with neuralgic affections of the breast is to carefully examine the organ for such local conditions as above referred to. Should one or other of them be discovered, its removal by operative measures is advisable, as, in addition to pain, the patient is often terrified by the belief that she is the subject of cancer. When no local cause can be discovered a belladonna plaster should be applied, and the patient should be reassured that there is no disease. Any menstrual irregularity or disease of the pelvic organs should, of course, receive appropriate treatment. Quinine, iron, and nux vomica are of great service if the general health be un- satisfactory. In neurotic and hysterical cases too much attention should not be paid to the local condition; change of air and, more particularly, also of the social conditions and surroundings of the patient generally suffice to put an end to the trouble. Cysts Galactocele.—This is the name which is given to a milk cyst which develops most frequently during the period of lactation, occasionally during pregnancy, and very rarely apart from either of these conditions. As regards the origin of the cyst, it is usually a simple reten- tion cyst formed by dilatation of one of the lacteal sinuses behind some obstruction in the mammillary portion of the duct, the result generally of injury inflicted by the child during lactation; less frequently it results from ex- travasation of milk following rupture of a main duct from injury or disease. The cyst appears suddenly, generally enlarges rapidly, and is almost invariably single and situated under the areola. Smooth and round or slightly oval in outline, and freely movable, it varies in size from a cherry to a Tangerine orange or even larger; it diminishes in size after lactation and increases again at subsequent pregnancies. Its consistence varies according to the nature of its contents: thus it may be elastic and fluctuating, or doughy and capable of retaining the impression of the finger, or firm and solid; in the latter case the cyst may easily be mistaken for a fibro-adenoma or even for a scirrhus. The skin over the cyst is freely movable ; there is no retraction of the nipple, no glandular enlargement, and, as a rule, no pain, the condition being unassociated with any inflammatory reaction. Millt can generally be made to exude from the nipple on pressure over the tumour, but this sign has no diagnostic value unless it be associated with the resting state of the gland, when it becomes exceedingly important, if not indeed pathognomonic. Treatment.—A galactocele should not be interfered with during pregnancy or lactation if the tumour be small; hwt if it be large, or if it be increasing rapidly in size, the child must be removed from the breast, and steps taken to bring about cessation of the secretion of milk. When the secretion has ceased, an incision, radiating from the nipple, may be made into the tumour, the contents evacuated, and the cavity plugged with gauze so as to bring about complete obliteration by granula- tion. A better treatment, however, is to excise the cyst and then to approximate the deeper parts of the cavity by two or three deep sutures, the skin edges being approximated by horse- hair sutures. The multiple cysts so often associated with chronic lobular mastitis have already been freely dealt with under that affection. Multiple cysts are also frequently met with after the menopause, as a result of the atrophic changes which occur normally at that period in connection with the acini and small ducts; they are known, therefore, as invohition cysts. They are most numerous at the periphery of the gland, especially towards its posterior surface ; they A'ary in size from a mustard seed to a pea; they contain a clear serous, or a variously coloured mucoid, fluid ; they give rise to no subjective symptoms, and they are generally discovered accidentally in breasts which have been removed for some other affection, especially for carcinoma. The so-called serous or lymphatic cyst was formerly believed, in consequence of the absence of an epithelial lining, to be due to cystic dilatation of a lymph space. But we now know that the larger cysts of parenchymatous origin lose all trace of their epithelial lining. More- over, an endothelial lining has not been demonstrated in connection with these so-called lymphatic cysts; it is highly probable, there- fore, that they are either large involution cysts, or glandular retention cysts which have de- veloped in connection with a localised chronic mastitis. Any of the cysts above referred to may enlarge to form a rounded tumour which varies