513 NAEGELE'S OBLIQUITY Naeg-el6's Obliquity.—The lateral obliquity of the foetal head when it enters the true pelvis of the mother in labour, which is shown in the fact that the parietal bone which is to the front is at a lower level than the parietal bone which lies posteriorly; it is well marked in labour in the flat pelvis. See Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Pelvic Deformities, Contracted Pelvis). Naegele'S Pelvis.—The unilaterally or oblii|uely contracted pelvis : it is generally due to premature anchylosis of the sacro-iliac syn- chondrosis of one side. See Labour, Precipi- tate and Prolonged [Pelvic Deformities, Rarer Forms). NsevO-.—In compound words naivo- (Lat. ncevus, a mole) means relating to or originating in a nsevus, mother's mark, or mole, e.g. nmvo- carcinoma, noevo-lipoTna, etc. NsevUS. See Tumours {Dermoids, Moles). See also Brain, Surgery of [Meningocele, Dia- gnosis) ; Capillaries, Diseases of {Congenital Angioma); Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Con- genital Anomalies, NcBvi); Electricity ; Elec- trolysis {In Angioma); Mammary Gland, Dis- eases of {Fatty Tumours, Nmvo-lipomata); Mouth, Diseases op {Vascular Tumours of Lips); Neck, Region of {Tumours, Nmvi); Palate {Tumours); Peritoneum, Tumours of {Noivi); Pregnancy, Intra-uterine Diseases {Pigmentary Anomalies of Skin); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Tumours of Scrotum); Skin, Pigmentary Affections of {Neoplastic); Tongue {Innocent Tumours, Angiomata); Tu- mours of the Skin {Beiiign, Ncevi). Na.fta,la.n. — A substance composed of Russian naphtha and hard soap; it is used as an antiseptic and disinfecting application in skin diseases, etc. Na.g'a.na,.—Tsetse fly disease ; a malady occurring in animals in Central, East, and South Africa, and transmitted by the tsetse fly. See Parasites {Protozoa, Trypanosoma Brucei). Na.g'COnda.. See Balneology {India). Na.il-Bitingf. See Nails, Affections of {Injuries). Nails, Affections of the. Atrophy ...... 513 Hypertrophy. . . . . .513 Alterations in Curvature . .513 White Spots, etc. . . . . .514 Congenital Defects . . . .514 Hereditary Defects . . . .514 Injuries— Occupation Results . . . .515 In General Diseases . . . .515 In Skin Diseases . . . . .515 In Nervous Diseases . . . .517 vol. VI In Syphilis 517 Parasitic Affections . . . .518 Ingrowing Toe-Nail . . . .518 Anomalous and Obscure Affections . 519 Treatment . . . . . .520 See also Skin, Anatomy and Physiology {Nails); Skin, Parasites {Examination for Parasites, Nails) ; Syphilis {Affections of Nails, Onychia, etc.); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exophthalmic Goitre, Nails in). As the scope of this article is mainly clinical and practical, a knowledge of the anatomy, physiology, and development of the nails on the part of the reader will be assumed. The point to be borne in mind is that the nails are specialised portions of the general integument or skin, and are liable to the same pathological processes. The alterations met with affect the nails in their texture, shape, and colour. Usually all these modifications are present at the same time in varying degrees. In rare cases the nails may be much thinner and softer than usual {atrophy), being sometimes reduced to a mere film (Wilson). Or, again, they may be very brittle, splitting and crumbling as the result of slight injuries or when trimmed {onychorrliexis). Transverse furrows are of frequent occurrence, and the atrophic changes often give rise to a pitted worm-eaten appear- ance. On the other hand, there may be hypertrophy of the hard nail substance {onychauxis). It is necessary here to distinguish true hypertrophy from the claw- and horn-like formations {onycho- gryphosis—more correctly onchogryposis), which are really keratomata of the nail-bed, and in no sense a primary change of the nail proper. The subject of onychogryposis was first fully investi- gated hy Virchow. In this condition the over- growth is very marked, the nail becoming more or less discoloured, yellowish brown, or dirty looking; and assuming various shapes, some- times looking like a great claw, at others being twisted like a ram's horn. The surface of the nails is ridged and irregular, and beneath them there are soft, dirty, evil-smelling masses. Onychogryposis has been observed in a variety of conditions, which will be touched upon further on. Excessive overgrowth frequently occurs in old and bedridden people, especially affecting the big toes. A true hypertrophy of the nail takes place in acromegaly. The curvature of the nails over the ends of the fingers may be exaggerated, without hyper- trophy or other change in the nail substance, and quite apart from clubbing. As far as shape is concerned the nails may be flattened, or depressed and concave on the surface {spoon- nails—koilonychia). The nails may also vary greatly in length breadth, aiid so forth.