170 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF careful attention on account of the important part it plays in the dissemination of carcinoma. According to Sappey, all the lymphatics which arise within the substance of the breast emerge from its anterior and posterior surfaces to open into a plexus of large vessels situated inider the areola. From this subareolar 'plexus the i'lG. 3.—Slice from the cancerous mamma of a woman, set. occupied the peripliery of the lower and outer quadrant; Nipple; b, sebaceous glands of areola; c, skin; d, 38 ; mari ied ; nine children. The tumour close to it was a mass of cancerous glands, corpus mammfe "—parenchyma consistin; chiefly of ducts; e, dilated ducts; /, peripheral processes of the "corpus mamma; " ; q, intramammary fat lobules; h, retromammary fat; i, pectoral fascia; k, the tumour—a typical nodular scirrhus, to which the superjacent skin is tacked down : I, cancerous infiltration of the adjacent breast tissue; m, cancerous axillary glands; n, blood-vessel; o, surgeon's cut-surface (sternal edge), showing peri- pheral processes of "corpus mammae" cut across. (Nitric acid preparation.) lymph is conveyed by two or three large trunks to the axilla. Langhans, on the other hand, holds that the efferent lymphatics of the gland occupy the retromammary tissue, the larger trunks generally following the blood-vessels. The writer's observations have led him to regard the lymphatic system of the mamma as Fig. 4.—Peripheral slice from the cancerous mamma of a spinster, set. 39. To illustrate some points in the normal anatomy of a well-developed gland, a. Stroma ; b, ultimate lobules of the parenchyma arranged in grape-like clusters around the terminal branches of the ducts; c, connective-tissue framework of circum- mammary fat (rf); e, surgeon's cut-surface with (/) breast tissue extending up to it. (Nitric acid preparation.) consisting of five sets of vessels, which com- municate with one another directly or indirectly —(1) A superficial or cutaneous set, including those of the nipple and areola; (2) the sub- areolar plexus of Sappey ; (3) the intra- mammary lymphatics ; (4) the subcutaneous and paramammary lymphatics; (5) the retromam- mary lymphatics. The cutaneous lymphatics and those intramammary lymphatics which accompany the main lactiferous ducts open into the subareolar plexvts, which, therefore, connects the two systems. The lymphatics of the para- mammary fat form a part of the general subcutaneous lymphatic system of the front of the chest. They occupy for the most part the ligaments of Cooper, and re- ceive, on the one hand, lymphatics from the true skin, and, on the other hand, efferent lymphatics from the anterior sur- face of the mamma. The retromam- mary lymphatics, including those of the pectoral fascia, receive all the efferent intra- mammary lym- phatics which leave the posterior surface of the gland ; along with the paramammary lymphatics they pass to the axillary fascia, which they pierce to join the axillary glands. In this way, therefore, the efferent lymphatics of the corpus mammfe, of the nipple and areola, of the skin and paramammary fat, open eventually into the lymphatics of the deep fascia ; the latter accompany the blood-vessels of the gland, pierce the deep fascia, and in this way ulti- mately reach the lymphatic glands which lie, for the most part, in chains alongside the axillary blood-vessels. Rotter has shown that some of the efferent mammary lymphatics perforate the sternal portion of the pectoralis major, along with branches of the internal mammary and of the pectoral and long thoracic branches of the axillary artery, to open into small lymphatic glands situated in the fascia covering the posterior surface of the pectoral muscle. It follows, therefore, that removal of the sternal fibres of the pectoralis major should always form part of the roiitine operation for car- cinoma of the mamma. A few of the lym- phatics from the upper and inner part of the mamma open into the sternal glands, placed along the internal mammary artery. The number of lymphatic glands found in the axilla is often much larger than is usually described. Some are almost microscopic in size, while others not infrequently imdergo such a marked adipose invohition as to be mistaken for ordinai'y fat lobules. The glands which are usually the first to become diseased in carcinoma of the breast are the pectoral group, which occupy the an-