MEDICINE, FORENSIC 265 With regard to the examination of the private parts of any woman under whatever circum- stances, it must be remembered that this can only be carried out with her full consent, after she has been made aware of the object of the examination, and of the fact that it may provide evidence incriminating herself. No official authority, written or verbal, justifies the ex- amination of a woman against her will, but naturally in certain circumstances, as in charges of rape, it is the interest of the assaulted party to permit an examination to be made. It will be advisable to have such consent given in the presence of witnesses, while the examination should also, if possible, be carried out in the presence of another woman. The discovery of spermatozoa in the vagina will be strong corroboration of a charge of rape; but at the same time it is well known that living spermatozoa may be found in the vagina for at least a week after connection, and hence their presence may be due to a previous act of coition. A small spatula, pipette, or other suitable instrument should be introduced into the vagina and some of the contained mucus removed. As it is often impossible at once to proceed ■with the microscopical examination, and since it is inadvisable to allow the mucus to become dry, it will be found useful to place what is removed from the vagina between two microscope slides. In this way the material remains moist for many hours, and the spermatozoa are not injured. The mucus should be examined, however, as soon as possible under the microscope, with a power of at least 400. When seminal stains on linen or other fabrics have to be examined it should be remembered that the fabric must be handled gently. If there are dried seminal crusts upon it, these may be detached, allowed to soften in a drop of distilled water very slightly acidified with HCl, otherwise, a small piece of the stained fabric must be cut out, placed on a glass slide, and moistened with a drop of distilled water as above. The time allowed for maceration will depend on the age of the stain. The piece of fabric is then gently pressed on the slide, and the slightly milky fluid thus obtained is ex- amined under the microscope. The addition of a drop of a solution of iodine dissolved in iodide of potassium placed at the edge of the cover- glass is a very simple yet effective method of staining the bodies of the spermatozoa and thus rendering them more easily visible. No person should swear to the presence of spermatozoa xmless he finds typical and unmistakable speci- mens. To the unpractised there are many things in the field of vision in preparations of such discharges which resemble spermatozoa, although there is nothing the microscopist with some experience is able to recognise with more certainty and speak to with greater confidence if present. Examination of accused 'party in cases of Rape.—This should always be undertaken, but it can only be performed under the same restriction as pertains to the examination of a woman, viz., with consent. Evidence of a struggle, scratches on the face, wrists, etc., should be looked for, while an examination of the genital organs may disclose the presence of abrasions, or of disease, which may afford important evidence in certain cases — or the clothing may show blood and seminal stains. Signs of Pregnancy. — A knowledge of the signs of pregnancy is of importance to the medical j urist, since in civil as well as in criminal cases questions as to the existence of pregnancy at the time of examination, or within a recent period, frequently arise. The various signs of pregnancy are described under the appropriate article {vide " Preg- nancy "), and need not be repeated here. A word of caution may, however, be given, viz., since a great responsibility is incurred by a positive opinion leading to criminal proceed- ings, a decision should not be come to until the absolute signs of pregnancy are present and proof positive is thus obtained. Delivery.—The question whether a woman has been recently delivered of a child is one which has to be determined frequently in con- nection with charges of infanticide, and also of suspected abortion. It is of great importance that the examination should be made as soon as possible, since the appearances presenting themselves will depend largely upon the time which has elapsed since delivery, as well as upon the period of gestation at which delivery has taken place. Of course the consent of a woman to the examination must be obtained, as previously mentioned. The signs of quite recent delivery are well known to every practitioner, and it is therefore only necessary to emphasise a fact which is of great interest and importance, viz., the absence in some women of any outward indications of delivery having recently occurred, so that even doctors may be deceived unless a strict examina- tion is made. Not only may a primipara, who is living in daily association and sleeping in the same room with other women, nay, even sleeping in the same bed with another woman, successfully conceal her condition until the end of pregnancy, but she may retire for a quarter of an hour into privacy, and on returning, resume her work along with the rest of the household, without the fact being discovered that in the interval she has been delivered of a child ; not only so, but she may be able to continue to conceal the fact without discovery. After the lapse of one or two weeks, the definite determination of the fact of recent delivery having occurred becomes more difficult;