NAILS, AFFECTIONS OF THE 522 solution of perchloride of mercury in alcohol applied with a brush. In some cases avulsion of the affected nails has been resorted to with complete success in some cases, but in others the disease has re- curred. Ingrowing Toe-Nail.—-Various measures have been advocated for this condition. The un- healthy granulations should be destroyed by scraping, or with acid nitrate of mercury, applied with a match end (latter is painful), the sharp angle of the nail removed, and the parts packed with wet boracic acid lint under oiled silk, pressure being applied over the nail. Avulsion of the nail is recommended as the only procedure of permanent benefit, but Scott- Battam has found the following useful: rubbing the granulations with silver nitrate (under cocaine), and pressing small pieces of fine Turkey sponge between the nail and the granu- lations, a small piece being introduced under the free edge of the nail. The whole is fixed by means of a long narrow strip of plaster, and a soft, easy shoe worn. This is repeated later, and the crust formed by the nitrate of silver removed. On the fourth or fifth day a small piece of sponge must be inserted beneath the edge of the nail, or a portion of it removed with scissors. A mixture of iodoform and alum is then dusted on, and a sponge compress applied. The process may be repeated in a week or ten days if the ulcer has not healed. The dressing should be worn for two or three weeks longer. Anomaloiis and obscure diseases of the sym- metrical type should be treated locally with salicylic acid ointment {vide supra), or oleate of tin, gr. XX.-sj. to the ounce of lard as recom- mended by Shoemaker. Liquor arsenicalis should be ordered by the mouth with the precautions already insisted on. At the same time, the patient's surroundings, food, etc., should be attended to, and any derangement corrected (constipation and so forth). Where subungual hcemorrhages occur without apparent cause, inquiry should be made as to hasmiojjhilia. The general condition of the patient may call for iron. In nail-changes caused by intoxications the use of the drug or agent must be suspended, and treatment carried out on the lines above suggested. Epithelioma of the nail necessitates amputa- tion, and the infected glands, if any, should be excised. Medical Jurisprudence.—Deformities, trade discolorations, and diseases of the nails may be a means of identification in the living and the dead. In suspected arsenical poisoning the nails should be chemically examined, as the drug is eliminated through them. Malingering.—The possibility of simulation must never be overlooked in unusual cases, which do not fit in to any of the foregoing groups. Here the unilaterality corresponding to right- or left-handedness, the bearing of the patient, and the circumstances and surroundings, would make one suspicious. It must be re- membered, however, that suspicions should not be communicated to either patients or friends. Nothing should be said unless proof positive be forthcoming. Even then the medical man gets more abuse than thanks. Personally I have never seen a case of nail malingering. Conclusion.—In the foregoing an attempt has been made to give as full and practical an account of diseases of the nails as possible, but many interesting details and minute points have necessarily had to be omitted. The reader desirous of going more deeply into the subject will iind much to interest him in various pub- lications and collections, a list of which is appended at the end of the bibliography [which accompanies this article as it appeared in the Encyclopcedia Medica, vol. viii. pp. 234, 235]. Nairn. See Balneology (Marine Baths, Seaiveed); Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Scotch). Naja,. See Snake-Bites {Elapidce, Naja or Cobra). Nakra or Nasha. — A malady re- sembling influenza, affecting the natives of India (males more than females) during the summer months. See Tropics, Unclassed Fevers of {Continued Fevers of Short Duration). Naming^ Centre.—It has been sup- posed that there is a special region of the brain where the various sensory elements which are required to make a concept are united together, as it were, by a name; this, however, is doubt- ful, and even the long accepted views regarding Broca's convolution have been undermined of late. Nancy. See Hypnotism {Inducing Hyp- nosis). Nanism.—Dwarfism (Gr. vavos, a dwarf) or microsomia. See Dwarfism and cross-ref- erences. Nano-.—In compound words nano- (Gr. vavos, a dwarf) means relating to a dwarf, or dwarfed; e.g. nanocephalus (an animal with a small head), nanomelus (an individual with stunted limbs), and nanosomus (a person with a dwarfed body). Nantwich. See Balneology {Great Britain, Mm-iated Waters) ; Mineral Waters {Muriated Saline Waters). Napeiline. — An alkaloid (C2fiH35N07 (OH)^) obtained from Aconitum Naj)ellus and having an action resen)bling that of aconitine; isaconitine. See Aconite.