MERCURY 364 danger of absorption and poisoning if too strong a solution or too large a quantity be used, and for this reason intra-uterine douches of corrosive sublimate have been almost entirely abandoned. It has been supposed that the biniodide is a stronger antiseptic than the perchloride, but this is probably not the case. Corrosive sub- limate discs, coloured blue, are a useful form in which to carry the antiseptic. Mercurial ointments are used in a host of skin affections, particularly those of parasitic origin. Blue oint- ment, white precipitate ointment, and dilute nitrate of mercury ointment destroy pediculi, and are also efficacious in ringworm and favus. Care must be observed that too large a quantity is not applied at one time as there is a risk of poisoning from absorption. White precipitate ointment is specific in impetigo contagiosa. The official ointment is far too strong and would cause dermatitis; 5 grains to the ounce is the proper strength to use. A weak nitrate of mercury ointment is excellent in the treatment of styes of the eye, and if applied early enough may check their development. An ointment of the yellow oxide (4 grains to the ounce) is of great service in the treatment of phlyctenular and other forms of conjunctivitis. Mercurial ointments are also used in psoriasis and many scaly skin affections. Black wash is used for application to syphilitic sores; yellow wash is preferred when a greater stimulant effect is desired. Calomel as a dusting powder is of great value in the treatment of syphilitic con- dylomata. A calomel ointment gives relief in pruritus ani. Recent experiments tend to show that the local application of calomel in the form of an ointment prevents the formation of the primary syphilitic sore. Blue ointment has been applied empirically over enlarged glands, in tuberculous peritonitis, and in meningitis. In oztena, whether syphilitic or not, white or red precipitate, 2-8 grains to the ounce, as a snuff, removes the stench and may cure the complaint. A weak solution of perchloride of mercury may be used as a mouth wash in syphilitic ulceration. A stronger solution, applied with a brush, is an excellent antiseptic in tonsillitis and diphtheria. Internally mercury, as blue pill, grey powder, or calomel, is universally employed as a purga- tive, especially when a stimulant effect on the biliary apparatus is required. Whether calomel is a direct hepatic stimulant or not is of little importance from the clinical standpoint. The greater part of its action is probably intestinal, the bile-ducts and gall-bladder being relieved in- directly ; but it is possible that a small quantity of the drug is converted into the perchloride, and that this has a direct stimulant effect on the liver. That form of dyspepsia usually called " bilious- ness," when there is headache, constipation, dirty tongue, and general lassitude, will almost invariably be relieved by a dose of calomel at night, followed by Mistura Sennse Composita or a saline in the morning. Calomel acts better in repeated small doses than in a single large dose. In simple diarrhoea a dose of calomel is often curative, and in any case should precede the administration of astringents. In children, grey powder is a favourite remedy for diarrhoea, and for dyspeptic conditions with flatulence, fetid breath, and ill-smelling pasty stools. In jaundice due to catarrh of the bile-ducts or slight hepatic congestion, calomel or grey powder will often bring relief. Calomel is the most reliable intestinal antiseptic, and has recently been used with considerable success in dysentery and typhoid fever; it is also the best purgative to be employed in the after-treatment of most cases of abdominal operation. For all these purposes repeated small doses are to be pre- ferred. Gently purgative doses of calomel have a marked diuretic effect in cases of dropsy. When kidney disease is present, however, mer- curial purgatives are to be avoided, as an un- controllable diarrhoea may be set up by their use. In heart cases Guy's diuretic pill, con- taining 1 grain each of blue pill, squills, and digitalis, with extract of hyoscyamus, has frequently a marvellous effect. In the early stages of acute inflammations, especially of serous membranes, as in pleurisy, pericarditis, endocarditis, and meningitis, in sthenic indi- viduals, full doses of calomel guarded with opium do great good. Perchloride of mercury, in doses of yV grain three times daily, has been very successful in the treatment of lichen planus. The specific action of mercury in syphilis makes it one of the most valuable drugs at our command. It is useful under certain con- ditions at all stages of the disease, but auth- orities differ widely as to when it is to be used and for how long. In most cases treatment with mercury should be commenced as early as possible and continued for twelve or eighteen months, after which a six months' course of iodide should be given. The administration of the drug can be carried out in various ways. By the mouth, grey powder 1 grain with 1 grain of Dover's powder, four to six times daily, gives most excellent results. The biniodide {--^ grain) or the protiodide (i grain) three times daily in pill are also strongly recommended. For the later stages of the disease, potassium iodide in solution with liquor hydrargyri perchloridi is a favourite prescription. Inunction is a very efficient means of introducing mercury into the system. About half a drachm of blue ointment should be rubbed into the skin of the axilla or groin each evening for six evenings in the week. In infants, a flannel binder with a little of the ointment spread on may be wrapped about the belly. The wearing of mercuro-lint chest bibs is another method of introducing mercury through the skin. Another good method of