LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 61 atmosphere, and great warmth and brilliance of sun's rays, and frequently extreme stillness. In healthy individuals the physiological effects of such climates are manifest; more particu- larly, they stimulate respiration, circulation, and blood formation, appetite, digestion, and activity of skin and venous system. For some individuals they are too stimulant, and sleeplessness and other manifestations of irritation supervene. As examples may be mentioned : in Switzerland, Les Avants (3200), Leysin (4757), Wiesen (4771), Arosa (6035), Davos Platz (5115), St. Moritz (6090); in South Africa, Cradock (3000), Beaufort West (2800), Aliwal North (4350), Tarkastad (4300), Harrismith (5250), Kimberley (4012), Burghersdorp (4650), Bloemfontein (4500), Pretoria (4500)—(in South Africa the dust-storms in dry weather are often trying, and the accommodation and food un- satisfactory) ; in North America, the Rocky Mountains (Colorado Springs, Las Vegas, Manitou, Denver); in South America, the Andes; in New South Wales, the Blue Mountains. Most cases, even if advanced, may benefit by such climates. Cases should not be sent in the acute stage, for reasons which have been indicated. Cases with complications, such as albuminuria, tuberculous laryngitis, or enteritis, are probably better elsewhere. In selecting, much attention should be devoted to the possibility of carrying out the hygienic measures, as food supplies and sanitary pro- visions are frequently defective. B. Measures for attaching the tubercle bacillus more directly, or 7ieutralising the products result- ing from the growth and development of the bacillus within the body. This is the specific, badly termed antiseptic, line of treatment. Unfortunately, we must admit that no specific exists in the practical sense. Were there an available specific, the problem of cure would be effectively solved by its use in combination with the rational lines already discussed. Of remedies which have been credited with activity in relation to the tubercle bacillus may be mentioned :— Tuberculin.—-This approaches most nearly to a specific. It exerts a remarkable influence on tuberculous foci. Two forms have been prepared by Koch. The original tuberculin is a glycerine extract obtained from recent (6-8 weeks old) bouillon cultures of the tubercle bacillus. The later tuberculin, or TR tuber- culin, is an extract obtained from recent, dried cultures after thoroughly pounding in a mortar. It is unnecessary to go into the details of the extraction. Prolonged observation in the use of the two is in favour of the original tuberculin. This certainly proves serviceable when used cautiously, in not too advanced cases, in minute doses (smaller than those first sanctioned) and at considerable intervals. The treatment should be commenced with 0-0005 gramme, or less. conveniently dissolved in ^ per cent carbolic acid solution. Such a dose produces a minimal reaction. In the course of 4-12 hours some degree of disturbance appears, including chilli- ness (possibly rigor), elevation of temperature (l°-3° F.), slight feeling of tiredness, headache, pains in limbs, and perhaps a little nausea. These last for some twelve hours or so. Asso- ciated with the general disturbance there is often an increase of local manifestations, cough, expectoration, and the physical signs may become more obvious. Analogous to the phenomena seen in lupus treated with tuber- culin, there occurs round the tuberculous foci in the lung a congestive process. In a day or so the little disturbance has disappeared. With still smaller doses the disturbance may be hardly traced. If in a week's time the same dose be repeated, the disturbance is considerably less marked. In the use of tuberculin it is a good rule to avoid producing disturbance. If the treatment be begun with a quarter of a milligramme and the successive increase be limited to a like amount, the disturbance is reduced to a mini- mum. Successive doses had better be separated by a week's interval, and the dose should be so regulated as to produce the least possible dis- turbance. The results justify the procedure. In many cases distinct, lasting benefit has been observed. If larger doses be employed, there is a risk of producing too violent a reaction. Thus a more lasting pyrexic disturbance may be established, and an extension of the disease be traceable by physical signs. The drug is administered by hypodermic syringe intramus- cularly, conveniently behind the shoulder. Other preparations, variously termed tubercu- locidin, antiphthisin, etc., have been obtained either from tuberculin or directly from cultures of the bacillus. The results of observation meantime do not warrant their regular intro- duction into practice. The same remark applies to the various preparations of serum which have been announced, especially by French and Italian workers. In some hands the results of treatment appear to have been moderately good, but hardly good enough to justify the recommendation of any one of them for practical purposes. Creosote and its Congeners.—Of drugs which have been credited with a specific influence, creosote (or one of its congeners) is the most important. There can be no doubt that it exerts a wholesome influence. Whether this is of strictly specific character is more difficult to say. Pure beechwood creosote is usually well borne by the stomach—indeed, exerts a directly beneficial influence on the gastro-intestinal tract. Cruder preparations of creosote, by reason of their con-osive properties, may cause consider- able irritation. As to dosage, it may be given in m. ij.-v. doses, gradually increased to rtl xv.-