132 MALARIA able to the parasite ; what these conditions may be is not known. The question of latency will be referred to again. Period of Incubation. — What much more frequently happens is, that, after a variable period of incubation active clinical symptoms manifest themselves, for, under favourable con- ditions, as soon as the parasite has gained entrance to the body it commences to multiply by the asexual process of reproduction. The multiplication of the germ prior to the occur- rence of clinical manifestations probably takes place in the visceral blood, for examination of peripheral blood during this period is usually negative—at any rate, in the case of primary infections. 1 Considering how recently the life- history of the malarial parasite outside the human body has been worked out, and its mode of entrance to the body ascertained, it is not to be wondei-ed at that exact data regarding the length of the incubation period, under natural conditions, are wanting. Bastianelli, Bignami, and others, have ascertained the length of the incubation period in artificially produced malaria. They injected malarial blood, both subcutaneously and intravenously, into healthy individuals; their experiments gave the following results:— The Incubation Period of Experimental Malaria Maximum. Minimum. Mean. Quartan 15 days 11 days 13 days Benign tertian 12 ,, 6 ,, 10 ,, .^Estivo-autumnal 5 ,, 2 ,, 3 ,, These periods coincide pretty closely with clinical observations. Celli is inclined, never- theless, to think that the periods given are too short, for in some experiments which he performed in connection with malarial im- munity he observed cases of quartan, benign tertian, and ajstivo-autumnal infections in which the incubation periods were respectively 47, 22, and 17 days. In Hanson's two recent cases of inoculation of benign tertian malaria by mosquitoes the incubation period was 14 and 15 days respectively. The length of the incubation period must depend on many factors ; there are four, at least, concerned :— (1) The number of malarial parasites in- oculated. (2) The length of the life-cycle of the parasite. (3) The virulence of the parasite. (4) The inherent power of resistance in the individual. (1) The Number of Malarial Parasites In- oculated.—This must, obviously, be an important factor. In naturally produced infections by 1 Perliai)s what is more probable is tliat the parasites exist in such small numbers that they are not observed. Cases occasionally come under my notice in which five or six specimens are examined before parasites are discovered in the peripheral circulation. means of the mosquito, however, the number must in most cases be small. It has been proved by experiment that even so small an amount of blood as may adhere to the needle of a Pravaz syringe is large enough to produce malarial fever. (2) The Length of the Life-Cycle of the Para- site.—This is also a factor to be considered, for if the same number of quartan and tertian para- sites be injected at the same time, inasmuch as the life-cycle of the tertian is shorter than that of the quartan, the former will increase more rapidly than the latter. It must be remembered, also, that the tertian parasite reproduces itself in greater numbers, as well as more rapidly, than the quartan parasite, the sporocyte of the tertian containing almost double the number of spores. (3) The Virulence of the Malarial Parasite Inoculated.—There is little doubt that not only the various species of the parasite, but also the different strains of the same species, vary in virulence, being analogous in this respect to bacterial infections. The different type of benign or malignant fever which occurs in the same region, and even in the same region in diff'erent years, warrants the conclusion that there is a variation in the virulency of the corresponding species of the parasite. (4) The Inherent Potver of Resistance in the Individual.—Individuals do not all possess the same amount of resistance to malarial infections, and in the same individual the resisting power varies from time to time. It is the common experience of everyone practising in the Tropics, that if two people be exposed to the same in- fluences, one may contract fever while the other escapes. In some cases this may be explained by the fact that mosquitoes prefer to bite some people rather than others, but, more frequently, it is undoubtedly due to an idiosyncrasy on the part of the individual. Periodicity.—The febrile paroxysms of ma- larial fever exhibit either a quotidian, a tertian, or a quartan periodicity; that is to say, fever recurs every twenty-four, forty-eight, or seventy- two hours respectively. Golgi first observed the fact that the febrile paroxysm coincides, in point of time, with the maturation of the para- site. It has already been stated that the de- velopment of the asexual form can be watched by examining the blood in a case of benign tertian fever, and that, just prior to the onset of the fever, the parasites are all found to be at the sporulating stage. The reason why they all mature about the same time, and in regular groups, is a problem that still requires solution. The resolving of this problem will give the clue not only to the cause of malarial periodicity, but will possibly explain the periodicity of other febrile processes. Periodicity may serve the interest of the parasite in some way ; it certainly seems to serve the interest of the human host, for it is those cases in which typical periodicity