309 MENINGES OF THE CEREBRUM simply a subdural hsemorrhage, generally be- lieved to be from a pial vein—the hcemorrhai/io theory. The other view is specially associated with the name of Virchow, and is supported by most writers on the Continent—the inflamimitory theory; the initial stage of the process is held to be of an inflammatory nature—an exudate of fibrinous lymph occurs first on the surface of the dura mater, which becomes organised by the growth of blood-vessels and granulation tissue from the dura, and thus a vascular membrane is formed. The blood-vessels in this membrane are very prone to rupture, and thus htemorrhages occur as a secondary phenomenon. It is on this theory that the name " hsemorrhagic internal pachymeningitis " is given to the condition. A third theory has been more recently enunciated by Ford Robertson, and he has supported it with evidence which appears very convincing. Apart from cases of simple haemorrhage into the subdural space, which are probably as common in the sane as in the insane, and are due to the usual cases of intracranial haemorrhage, he holds that the special subdural formation of the insane —comparatively rare in the mentally sound—is due to a widespread morbid process in the tissues of the dura itself, of a degenerative and not in- flammatory nature, which is specially common in certain cases of chronic insanity (general paralysis and senile insanity). This morbid process consists in proliferative and degenerative changes in the endothelial elements of the dura, with resulting compression of the superficial capillaries, and the constant association of the development of new capillaries on the inner surface of the dura, and, as these capillaries are specially prone to give way, frequent haemor- rhages occur, especially during the last days of life. The primary morbid changes in the dura, which predispose to this condition, are ascribed to the irritating effects of the cerebro- spinal fluid, which flows froin the cerebral lymph-spaces through both pia arachnoid and dura mater; it receives the products of meta- bolism of the cerebral tissues, and, as their metabolism must be abnormal in marked cases of insanity, the composition of the cerebro- spinal fluid must be altered, and it will become unsuited for the healthy nutrition of the parts through which it is carried away. Sympto7ns.—The symptoms are very indefinite, or may be entirely absent, especially where the haemorrhages are small or have occurred very gradually. Apoplectiform seizures may occur; mental failure is often rapidly increased; head- ache, especially of the vertex, is prominent in some cases; in many cases hemiplegia is found where the condition exists on one side, mainly or entirely; occasionally, convulsions; there may be marked signs of increased intracranial pressure—vomiting, somnolence or coma, slow- ing and irregularity of pulse, contracted pupils reacting slowly to light. The diagnosis cannot be made with certainty ; but the possible exist- ence of the condition should be remembered, where headache and such symptoms of impair- ment of the cerebral functions as have been noted above occur in persons known to be liable to the condition. Almost all cases have a fatal result, often very rapidly. Ford Robertson, indeed, believes that almost all these cases of subdural forma- tion develop within a few days or even hours of death. Possibly, in early cases due to chronic alcoholism, the process may be arrested if the cause can be removed. Treatment is generally of no avail, and apart from removal of the cause, it will be directed along the lines followed in dealing with intra- cerebral haemorrhage in general. 3. Thrombosis of Meningeal Veins and Sinuses.—(Vide "Brain, Affections of Blood- vessels," and " Brain, Surgery of," vol. i.; "Ear, Chronic Suppurative Otitis Media," vol. ii.). Thrombosis of a surface vein is held by some authorities, notably Gowers, to be the primary lesion in infantile hemiplegia (vide " Hemi- plegia " and also " Paralysis "). Inflammations of the Meninges Inflammation of the dura mater is known as pachymeningitis, and is much less common than inflammation of the pia arachnoid, which is known as leptomeningitis or simply meningitis. 1. Inflammation of the Dura Mater (Pachymeningitis) Inflammation may affect primarily either of the two layers of which the dura is usually said to be composed : thus one speaks of external and internal pachymeningitis. (a) External Pachymeningitis.—This form is generally secondary either to fracture of the cranial bones from injury or to disease of bone ; the latter is usually either caries (especially caries of the petrous portion of the temporal bone in otitis media) or syphilitic disease. In a few cases it has occurred in erysipelas, the poison being probably conveyed by way of the veins of the diploe. The inflammation may be simple (non-puru- lent), as when caused by a severe blow on the head, and it is then usually localised. The first result is often effusion of blood between the dura and the skull, and the inflammatory exudate follows; the final issue is a thickening of the outer layer of the dura, which is firmly adherent to the bone, and often a growth of osteo- phytes into this tissue. The chief symptoms of this form are persistent headache, and the subsequent development of traumatic epilepsy. In the great majority of cases, however (as when due to caries, syphilitic disease of bone, or a compound fracture of the skull), the in- flammation is of a purulent nature, and an abscess is formed between the dura and bone (extradural or subcranial abscess). The quantity