MUMPS, OR EPIDEMIC PAROTITIS Epidemic parotitis, or, to use the popular and better term. Mumps, is a specific infectious disease which must be distinguished from the " metastatic " parotitis occurring as a sequel to many abdominal affections. Mumps is endemic in most large towns ; at times it assumes an epidemic form, and local outbreaks in schools and similar institutions are very frequent. It seems to be more common in this hemisphere than in America. Emmet Holt refers to it as a not very common disease, and says that general epidemics are rare, while other American writers state that a locality may remain free from it for twenty or thirty years. The disease is most frequently met with between the ages of four and fourteen years, but adolescents and adults are also liable to it. The extremes of life, how- ever, are spared, and infants and the aged but seldom suffer. Mimips is extremely contagious, and there is no doubt that the infection may be conveyed, without personal contact with a case, through the intermediary of a third person or by fomites. Epidemics are most common in cold and damp weather, and in the spring and autumn, perhaps because the climatic conditions then prevalent tend to prevent due ventilation of dwelling-houses. Epidemics not infrequently follow o\itbreaks of measles. Boys are some- what more liable to be infected than girls, and it is said that mouth-breathers are peculiarly liable to the disease. The incubation period is very variable ; it may be as little as three days, but more commonly lies between fourteen and twenty-five days, the average being perhaps seventeen to twenty-one days. The medical officers to school associations recommend twenty- four days' quarantine, dating from the first ex- posure to infection. One attack of mumps con- fers a very complete immunity, second attacks being almost unknown; relapses are rare, but may occur. Mumps is a mild disorder, and the mortality is almost nil, though in some epidemics complications are more common than in others. The disease seems to be infectious during the latter part, if not the whole, of the incubation period, and the infectiousness is greatest just before the parotid swelling de- velops—that is, before a diagnosis can be made. It persists for about three or four weeks from the onset of the symptoms, or until ten or twelve days after all signs of parotid enlargement have disappeared. Pathology.—While it is, of course, certain that mumps is due to a specific germ, no organ- ism has yet been proved to be the cause of the disease. Pasteur found a bacterium in the blood of patients suffering from mimips, and Bordas and others have described a bacillus parotidis in the blood, saliva, and urine. With more recent and precise methods there is now a concensus of opinion that the disease is due to a diplococcus possessing definite cultural peculiarities, but since the organism has never been successfully inoculated into animals it cannot be regarded as more than the probable infective agent. Netter, Laveran, Cabrin, Mecray, and Walsh have all observed this dip- lococcus in the blood and in the secretion of the inflamed glands, while they have failed to obtain it in healthy individuals. It grows in pairs or in sets of four, or sometimes as a zooglea. Cabrin and Laveran obtained it in 67 out of 72 cases from the exudation drawn from the gland by a hypodermic needle. It stains with the ordinary aniline dyes, and is decolorised by Gram's method. It grows slowly on agar, more quickly on blood-serum, giving rise to circular whitish colonies; it liquefies gelatine in twelve to fourteen days, and turns litmus milk pink on the third day. The inflammation of the parotid is chiefly interstitial, spreading from the duct and in- volving the periglandular tissue as well as the gland itself. In the testicle the atrophy results from a parenchymatous rather than an inter- stitial inflammation; the tubules only are affected, the basement membrane becoming thickened, and the epithelium atrophied. Symptoms. — In the vast majority of cases occurring in childhood the disease is a very mild one, and gives rise to little discomfort; most of the severe cases occur in adults. Most commonly little is noticed before the parotid swelling appears, but prodromal symptoms may occur. The temperature rises a degree or two about twenty-four hours before the onset of parotitis, and with the initial fever the patient may complain of headache and discomfort. Oc- casionally there is considerable prostration and delirium ; convulsions, even, have been recorded. Attention is first directed to the true nature of the malady by pain and stiffness, with slight tender- ness, referred to the angle of the jaw below the ear, most commonly, I think, on the left side. Very soon a swelling can be detected, which goes on until the whole parotid is involved. The enlargement of the gland is considerable, and has a doughy, elastic feel, the skin over it being somewhat tense, but remaining pale, or at most showing a faint blush of red. The outline of the gland is not usually distinct, and one gets the impression that there is a good deal of exudation into the surrounding tissues. The gland on the opposite side becomes similarly affected about twenty-four or thirty-six hours later, and the disease is at its height by the third or fourth day. At this time the appear- ance of a patient suffering from mumps is quite characteristic: the face looks unduly broad, especially at its lower part, and the somewhat conical shape of the head and neck, when there is much swelling of the neighbouring parts— particularly when the submaxillary and sub- lingual glands are also affected—gives to the sufferer a slightly ridiculous aspect. When the parotitis is fully developed considerable dis-