MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE 480 factors: in the first place the interruption of the blood-supply must be nearly complete ; and, secondly, it must be of some hours' dura- tion, for it is well known that a temporary interruption of two to three hours is easily tolerated. Etiology.—The direct cause of such interrup- tion of circulation is either due to an embolus or thrombosis of the artery of the muscle when the collateral blood-supply is deficient. Embolus is due to some cardiac afl^ection, while throm- bosis is due either to some syphilitic endarteritis, or to thrombosis following one of the acute infective diseases. The changes in the vessels which accompany such diseases as Raynaud's, and which are primarily due to some defective nerve innervation, give rise to like ischsemic condition of the muscles. Direct injury to a vessel and cold may also be the cause of the affection, but the most frequent cause is un- doubtedly the too tight application of a bandage or splint. Symptoim.—The first symptom to manifest itself is numbness and tingling in the limb or portion of the limb affected, and this may be combined with some alteration of sensation. Then severe and often paroxysmal pain of a rheumatic character occurs, which is localised in the miiscle, and is followed by severe muscular cramp and spasmodic jerkings. The affected limb is pale, sometimes cyanosed and cold. The electrical irritability of the muscle is said to be lost after the ischsemic condition has lasted for five hours, and the muscles are quite flaccid and powerless. After seven hours, muscular rigidity and painful contractions begin; these increase in severity, and after two to three days dis- appear, leaving the muscles again flaccid. An oedematous condition of the muscles now occurs from a partially established collateral circula- tion, and at this time the muscle is tender on pressure. This swelling gradually disappears, and muscular atrophy becomes manifest, the muscles being hard and firm. Following this atrophy contraction begins to take place, and the hand becomes flexed at the wrist and the fingers at the phalangeal joints. The final con- traction of the muscle is due to the atrophy of the muscular fibres and to the formation of connective tissue. Atrophic changes in the skin are commonly present. The course which such condition runs depends to a very large extent on the duration of the primary ischfemic conditions; when once the muscular cramps and rigidity have set in it is probable that no immediate recovery of the muscle is to be looked for, but short of this the muscle may rapidly recover if the blood-supply is restored. In those cases in which the cramps have ap- peared it is probable that many of the muscular fibres die and have to be replaced by regenera- tion, a process which is of slow and long dura- tion. In those cases in which the ischsemic condition is of still longer duration, and the muscle has become flaccid, it is very improbable that any large amount of restitution can take place. Certain fibres may escape, and from these new fibres may be formed ; the amount of recovery, however, will be small. In such a case muscles rapidly atrophy, become tough, hard, and contracted. Pathological Anatomy.—Every stage of mus- cular degeneration and reparation may be met with according to tKe complete or incomplete interruption of the blood-supply. It will be sufficient to describe two conditions : the first, in which the blood-supply is completely inter- rupted ; and the second, in which the supply is deficient. In the first the muscle is of a greyish dirty yellow colour, dull in appearance, and friable. Under the microscope the trans- verse striation of the muscle is often more marked than normal, and the longitudinal striation also is very obvious. There is an almost complete absence of muscular nuclei. Fatty degeneration of the muscle does not usu- ally occur. In the second condition, when the vascular supply is only in part cut off, the muscle itself is firm and tough, and has more or less of a normal appearance. On micro- scopical examination it is seen that there is a great increase of the connective tissue between the bundles of fibres; and, further, it is seen that the individual muscle fibres are separated from one another by intervening connective tissue. Fibres thus separated usually have lost their polygonal form, and have become smaller and are rounded in shape. They, how- ever, retain their striation even when extremely atrophied. Many of the fibres appear to have spaces in them so that they are paler than the surrounding fibres, and on longitudinal section these spaces are seen as longitudinal splitting of the muscle. Affection of Muscle due to Interrupted Venous Return.—The change in muscle produced by venous thrombosis differs somewhat from that produced by interruption of the arterial supply. The acute symptoms are those of thrombosis of the vessel in the limb, viz., swelling, cyanosis, and oedema. The limb feels full, hard, and is tender on pressure. The acute symptoms may pass off, but the limb is left in a condition of passive congestion, and the result of this is that the muscles and limb become larger than the corresponding limb, and a condition of pseudo-hypertrophy is produced. Pathological Anatomy.—The condition found in the muscle during the early stage is one of increase of the intermuscular and connective tissue. In the later stages the connective tissue becomes more abundant, and there is some atrophy of muscles, fibres, and fatty degeneration. Ha;mo7-rhage into Muscle.—This occurs in the course of acute febrile disease, poisoning by