MICRO-ORGANISMS 394 in sealed tubes (Pasteur), and the Bacillus tuberculosis has been found alive and virulent after being kept in dried sputum for ninety-five days. Some pathogenic forms resist desiccation for a considerable time (B. diphtherise, pyogenic bacteria, etc.), whilst others are destroyed when dried for only a few hours (cholera spirilla). In mixed cultures, as also in the body, only those organisms survive which are best suited to the conditions. Certain bacteria and their products are antagonistic to each other. B. typhi is rapidly killed off when cultivated with B. prodigiosus, B. coli, etc., whilst the products of B. pyocyaneus are antagonistic to the cholera spirillum. On the other hand, B. typhi grows well together with Streptococcus pyogenes. As the result of continued cultivation in artificial media, the action of heat, chemical agents, etc., pathogenic organisms may become attenuated, i.e. become lowered in virulence or lose their power to produce pigment, fermentation, and phosphorescence. Attenuated organisms are lowered in their vital powers. Some organisms lose their virulence more rapidly than others when cultivated artificially. The Streptococcus pyogenes, B. pestis, and B. mallei lose their virulence in a short time in artificial media. On the other hand, B. tuberculosis and B. anthracis may retain their virulence for many generations in culture. The application of cold checks the growth of micro-organisms, whilst alternate freezing and thawing are fatal if repeated. A number of bacteria resist con- tinued freezing for a considerable period of time. Prudden found B. typhi still alive after a sojourn of 103 days in ice, though the total number of organisms introduced had decreased. Ravenel found that anthrax bacilli, B. diph- therise, B. typhi resisted the temperature of liquid air ( - 312° F.) for three hours. The ap- plication of cold to food preservation depends upon its power to check bacterial growth. High pressures exert no appreciable effect on bacteria. Light depending upon its intensity retards development, attenuates, or kills bac- teria. The spores of anthrax are killed by an insolation of forty-eight hours, the vegetative cells being destroyed inside of two hours. Elec- tric light has a similar though naturally less intense effect. The growth of bacteria is not affected by the red rays of the spectrum, whilst it is affected by all the other rays, especially the violet. The Bacillus photometricum pos- sesses a peculiar interest in that it is quiescent in the dark and moves toward a source of light. Otherwise all organisms grow best in the dark. It has long been observed that the virus of anthrax persists longest in infected places shaded by undergrowth. The effects of electricity are indirect, really being due to electrolysis, the sodium chloride in the solution being broken up and chlorine evolved, besides which hydro- gen peroxide and ozone may be produced. This electrolytic action has been practically applied to the purification of polluted waters. Bacteria are susceptible to the effects of physiological poisons such as ether, chloroform, prussic acid, carbolic acid, etc. Whereas the majority of bacteria lead a sapro- phytic existence, i.e. live upon dead matter, a certain number may exist as parasites. Certain forms can only lead a saprophytic existence, some may also be capable of existence as para- sites, others appear to be obligatory parasites. Some saprophytic bacteria may indirectly pro- duce pathogenic effects through their products, toxins and ptomains (meat-poisoning, etc.), such organisms being described as toxicogenic (B. botulinus). Saprophytic bacteria may produce fermenta- tion, putrefaction, oxidation, or reduction, nitri- fication or denitrification of the medium in which they are vegetating. These chemical changes are brought about through the normal physio- logical functions of the micro-organisms. A large number gives off diastatic or amylolitic ferments, by which they are capable of convert- ing starch into sugars, as do animals by means of their salivary and pancreatic secretions. Some give off proteolytic enzymes, by means of which they convert albuminous substances into albumose, and albumose to pepton. Many give off this enzyme freely into the surrounding medium, and proteolytic changes are produced at a distance from the cell. We see this in the so-called liquefying bacteria, such as liquefy gelatine and coagulated blood-serum. Similarly with other products. B. pyocyaneus gives off a highly diffusible pigment, 15. diphtherise and B. tetani a highly diffusible toxin, whilst in other cases either the proteolytic ferment is not given off freely, though it is contained in and has been isolated from the cell (B. tuberculosis, B. typhi), or the toxin or pigment (B. violaceus, B. pro- digiosus, etc.) is not diffusible. Proteolytic enzymes which dissolve fibrin have been isolated from the spirillum of cholera, S. Finkler-Prior, B. prodigiosus, etc. This ferment is destroyed by exposure to a temperature of 55°-70° C. Neither peptonising nor diastatic ferments are produced in the absence of albumin. In insec- tivorous plants peptonisation is brought about indirectly through the agency of micro-organ- isms, and the plant thrives upon the products. Some bacteria give off inverting ferments which (as in animals) convert cane-sugar into glucose. Others give off rennet-like ferments, which curdle milk ; others fat-splitting ferments, which cause the rancidity of butter or fat. There is no essential difference between fer- mentation and putrefaction, the difference being but one of degree. Broadly speaking, a fer- mentation process (the term being used in the ordinary sense) results in few products, whilst in putrefaction they may be numerous, the process being accompanied by the evolution