MENINGITIS, TUBERCULOUS AND POSTERIOR BASIC 318 appears to be primary, the onset is insidious. The child seems ailing ; it is drowsy and fretful, and perhaps refuses its food for a week or more before any serious illness is suspected. Complaint of headache begins early; the headache is severe and more or less continuous. In younger children, screaming—sometimes sudden and sharp, sometimes more prolonged— especially at night, is a common symptom. In some cases—but these usually in the older children—delirium, varying from the mildest rambling up to the noisiest excitement, is an early symptom. Vomiting, without apparent cause, almost always occurs in the early stage, and at this period is sometimes the most conspicuous feature, so that the case may be mistaken for one of gastric disturbance. Constipation is present from the onset of the illness. The temperature at first may be somewhat raised, but is seldom high; it may, indeed, be normal, or only slightly above the normal throughout. The presence, however, of tuberculosis in the lungs or elsewhere may give rise to irregular pyrexia. Soon the child ceases to sit up; it lies in bed cixrled up on its side, with the face turned away from the light, with its legs drawn up, and flexed at hips and knees, and its arms flexed at the elbows and adducted. The mental condi- tion is one of extreme irritability: the child resents any disturbance, crying out passionately, " Go away!" if any one touches him, and dragging the bed-clothes pettishly over himself if any one attempts to uncover him. There is often some stiffness of the neck at this stage; the child resents any flexion of the head towards the sternum. Definite head retraction, however, is unusual, and any marked head retraction, such as is the rule in posterior basic meningitis, is quite the exception in tuber- culous meningitis. The anterior fontanelle in infants shows some fulness or bulging early in the disease. Some strabismus is usually noticeable at this period, and paralysis of other cranial nerves is common ; the pupils may be contracted or unequal, and ptosis or less often facial paralysis may be present. Paralysis or paresis of limbs is not very rare, but occurs most often towards the end of the disease. It may have any distribu- tion ; probably most often it is monoplegic. In some cases it is one of the earliest symptoms. It may disappear or shift from one limb to another after a few days. Associated movements of limbs are occasion- ally noticeable. For instance, passive flexion of one elbow will produce flexion of the elbow on the opposite side. Tremor is often present, especially in the hands, and is specially noticeable if the child is raised into the sitting posture. In the earlier stage, whilst the child is still able to walk, a coarse ataxy of arms and legs is sometimes seen. Restless, purposive movements of the hands are often present before coma is complete; the child plucks tremulously at the lips or at the genitals. The abdomen is flattened or even concave, so that it has the scooped-out appearance which has been described as " carinated." Vomiting often ceases after the first few days of the illness, but constipation persists throughout. The pulse is now abnormally slow and gener- ally markedly irregular; in many cases the cardiac rhythm and rate seem to be influenced strongly and very irregularly by the respiration. Vaso-motor disturbance may be evident in the bright-red flush which appears where the skin is pressed or even gently scratched (tache cerebrale); and this becomes even more notice- able during the last few days of the illness, when a deep flush may extend all over the face, and sometimes over the upper part of the trunk and arms. The so-called tache cerebrale is by no means peculiar to tuberculous meningitis, in which, however, it is seldom absent: it is met with also in several other conditions. Gradually irritability is replaced by uncon- sciousness. The decubitus changes from the lateral to the dorsal. The face becomes flushed, and sometimes beads of sweat appear on the forehead. Rigidity of limbs may be present, but the flexion usually disappears; the child lies with arms and legs extended, often with the hands crossed palm downwards over the hypo- gastrium. Paralysis of limbs is common at this stage, or one limb may be paralysed and another rigid. Convulsions, which are not fre- quent in the earlier part of the disease, often occur at the end of the illness. Sometimes the convulsions are general; sometimes there are only occasional twitchings of the limbs. The pupils are widely dilated, and react sluggishly, if at all, to light; ptosis and stra- bismus are usually present. Slow movements of the eyes, independently of one another, are common. Nystagmus is not frequent in tuberculous meningitis. During the last few days of life muco-pus collects on the cornea, which may even show linear ulceration at its lower margin owing to its unprotected condition from non-closure of the eyelids. Ophthalmoscopic examination during the later stage of tuberculous meningitis often shows a moderate degree of optic neuritis ; the neiiritis is seldom severe, and it is seldom present in the earlier stages of the disease. Tubercle of the choroid, in the writer's experience, is rare, except in those cases where tuberculous menin- gitis is part of general acute miliary tubercu- losis ; in these, tubercle of the choroid is usually present. The knee-jerks, which in the earlier part of the disease show no special alteration, are some- times absent during the last few days.