LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF 106 of glands which is clinically indistinguishable from lymphadenoma; and while, as a general rule, these tubercular glands caseate, they are sometimes found to be identical in structure with those of lymphadenoma, and yet to produce tubercle on inoculation. Other points in favour of this view are the spread of the disease from one point, gland by gland, and that the point of onset is almost always the cervical group, which is more exposed to in- fection than any other. The histological likeness between the soft variety of lymphadenoma and the glandular enlargement of lymphatic leucocythsemia on the one hand, and between the form with large cells and lymphosarcoma on the other, make it difficult to accept this view right away ; but it seems likely that further work will clear away this difficulty, for it is probable that some chronic lymphatic leucocythaemias have been described as lymphadenoma and that we may ultimately be able clinically to differentiate the lymphosarcomata. I have myself seen two cases which were diagnosed as lymphadenoma, and would have been described as that disease had I not pointed out that they wei'e lymphatic leucocythaemias, and 1 have no doubt that the error has frequently been made. To say, as many foreign observers do, that lymphadenoma, lymphaimia, lymphosarcoma, and all other chronic glandular enlargements not obviously due to tubercle, etc., are different manifestations of the same disease, seems to me to be simply shirking the difficulty, and to be quite un- justified by tlie facts. There are three or four cases on record where leucocythsemia has de- veloped out of lymphadenoma; but some of them are not absolutely free from suspicion, and in tlie others the connection may have been accidental. Course and Prognosis.—The disease usually lasts for one or more years, but may terminate in a few weeks or months in exceptional cases. The prognosis, when the condition is once fully developed, is always bad; and the older the patient and the more rapid the course of the disease, the worse is the outlook. Diagnosis.—The difficulties have already been referred to. From leucocythaemia, the diagnosis rests entirely on the examination of the blood ; difficulty, possibly unsurmountable for the time, will occur in those cases of leucocythsemia where the blood is first examined at a time when the leucocytes have fallen to normal or near it as a result of intercurrent infection or other cause. From generalised tubercular en- largement, the only way is to excise one of the glands, examine it microscopically, and if that leaves the matter in doubt, make an experimental inoculation. From local glandular overgrowth, the diagnosis cannot be made in the early stage. Where such a condition persists, in spite of treatment, for any length of time, the wisest plan is to treat it as tubercle and remove the mass. From lymphosarcoma the diagnosis cannot be made. Treatment.—When a case is seen early, before the glandular enlargement has passed beyond one group, arsenic should at once be given in gradually increased doses up to the largest amount that can be borne, preferably by the mouth, but hypodermically if there is much gastric disturbance. If the glands disappear, as they sometimes do, the case should still be watched, as they are very apt to reappear. Should the enlargement increase or progress, the afltected glands should be excised as com- pletely as possible, for even if they cannot all be removed, arsenic may be able to complete what has been begun by the knife. Where there is evidence that the thoracic or abdominal glands are already much affected, it is probably useless to operate on the external ones, as they will recur, and in any case it is not their enlargement which causes death. No other specific or local treatment has been found of much iise; but the patient's health should, of course, be kept in the best possible condition, as the disease is one in which the resisting power is greatly diminished. Good food, general tonics, cod-liver oil, fresh air, freedom from fatigue and worry, all have their importance. Status Lymphaticus or Lymphatism.—This is a very curious condition which has been com- paratively little studied in this country, though it is presumably common enough. General attention was drawn to it in Germany some years ago by the sudden death of a son of Pro- fessor Langhans of Berlin soon after antitoxin had been injected in order to protect the child from diphtheria. On examination the boy was found to have been the subject of this condition. Unfortunately, the condition is not so well defined that it can be easily or frequently diagnosed during life, and it is only, as a rule, after the sudden death of its victims that it is discovered. The essence of the disease is an enlargement or hyperplasia of the lymphatic apparatus, either throughout the body, or more usually of the internal parts of it. It occurs generally in children, but sometimes in ado- lescents or young adults, and in the former is usually, though not invariably, associated with rickets; and, as some observers maintain, also with a hypoplasia of the heart and arterial system. It is accompanied by a lessening of the powers of resistance, and is apt to cause sudden death from cardiac failure as a result of causes which are quite inadequate and sometimes trivial. For example, deaths have occurred during bathing, during anaesthesia, and without apparent cause during convalescence from the infectious fevers. The disease seems, moreover, to be of special importance in relation to diplitheria, possibly from tlie specially depres- sant character of that disease, and has been