MENTAL DEFICIENCY 360 spindle cells and the degree of intelligence. With low-grade idiots these cells are few and far between, and they increase gradually as intelligence increases, being however still abnormally scarce as compared with the normal, even in cases of slighter mental deficiency, known (in this country) as " feeble-mindedness." Diagnosis and Prognosis.—The diagnostic signs of the several types of idiocy have been set forth to a considerable extent in the classification. But the practical question as to the existence of mental deficiency in a given case, especially when marked typical features are not present, is one which needs more detailed consideration. Comparatively seldom will a mother admit mental defect in her oftspring until absolutely driven to do so : the child is said to suffer from some sensorial defect, and is often taken the round of eye, ear, and throat specialists before being sub- mitted to the judgment of the expert in paedo- psychiatry. It is desirable on many grounds that an early diagnosis of infantile mental in- firmity should be made, and the following hints may be of use to the general practitioner :— Cranial abnormalities, which in marked cases may be early observed, e.g. in microcephalic and hydrocephalic cases, are distinctly diagnostic. Taking a child at the age of nine months, it may be said that a circumferential head measure- ment much under 17 inches, or much over 19 inches, is indicative of probable abnormality. The brachycephalic head of the Mongol type, the expanded flattened-out cranial vault, with depressed and open fontanelles, of the cretin, and the asymmetrical skull of the paralytic type, are all suggestive. The rickety form of head, with frontal and occipital bosses, is fre- quently seen (in large towns, at any rate) associated with the less-marked forms of mental defect. "The persistence of the medio-frontal suture, or the existence of a medio-frontal ridge towards which a narrow forehead tapers, may be accepted as signs of imperfect development of the frontal lobes," a condition often seen in defectives of the " primary neurotic " type. Certain abnormalities of physical formation and development—(" stigmata of degeneration," as some have called them)—such as hare-lip, fissured, contracted, or deformed palates, facial asymmetry, macroglossus, abnormally implanted ears with absence of lobule, epicanthic folds extending across the curuncle, coloboma iridis, defects of ocular media, nose depressed or in- dented at bridge, polydactilism, cardiac imperfec- tions with cyanosis,—all these will be suggestive to the practitioner of abnormality (which may be mental as well as physical), especially when several of these stigmata co-exist. Much im- portance has been attributed by some to a high and narrow palate as a sign of congenital mental defect; but this alone is not conclusive, as it is found in many talented though neurotic persons. But after all it is by abnormality of nervous action, in conjunction with the consideration of the physical defects just named, that the dia- gnosis of mental abnormality is best made. The baby who lies listless and apathetic at a year old, and does not attempt to use its legs, or to make the usual infantile sounds, is doubtless mentally deficient; but there may be, on the other hand, excessive nervous irritability and irregular movement, perhaps spasmodic twitch- ings of certain groups of muscles, or a general tremor. In the paralytic type of cases nystag- mus is often present. Broadly speaking, the non-paralytic child who does not attempt to talk or to walk at the usual period may be suspected of some degree of mental deficiency. Then again defects in nutrition, especially if these defects persist in spite of appropriate feeding, are often symptomatic of constitutional defect associated with atrophic brain conditions, which impede the due evolution of intelligence. Warner has recorded an excessive ratio of mal- nutrition observed in the children of poor-law schools as compared with children in ordinary elementary schools, in spite of the good dietaries of the former, and this is coincident with about double the proportion of feeble-minded in the former as compared with the latter. As has been well remarked by John Thomson,^ " Many of the mentally defective infants we meet with present none of the grosser physical defects (above named) ; in these we may have to found our diagnosis entirely on the degree of delay in the development of the bodily and mental powers present, taken along with sur- rounding circumstances. Thus we must think of mental deficiency if a child is very long in learning to hold up his head, to sit, to use his hands, to stand, and to walk, and especially if he does not show the natural desire of the healthy infant to exercise all his developing motor faculties. Or, again, if he is backward in noticing objects, and in responding to the smile and voice of his mother and nurse, and, at a later stage, backward in speaking." Due allowance must, of course, be made for merely temporary backwardness resulting from infantile illnesses attended by debility. As regards prognosis the typical groups are significant. Thus in microcephalic cases the degree of improvement possible varies very much with the size of the head. Little can be expected when the circumference is less than 17 inches ; but when it is 18 or 19 inches the powers of observation may be trained, and manual occupa- tions may be acquired of practical use in after life. With hydrocephalic cases some educational progress may be looked for when all acute symptoms have subsided, and the present writer is acquainted with cases of this type ^ "On the Diagnosis of certain Forms of Imbecility in Infancy," Scottish Medical aiid Surgical Journal, March 1898, p. 204.