MUCOUS MEMBRANES 473 a saprophyte been attended by alterations in the body fluids and tissues of a nature enabling them to withstand the toxic action of the bacillus 1 (See also " Immunity.") These points are men- tioned merely by way of example, and it is unnecessary to amplify them to any extent. These are the important questions that confront the practitioner in cases of bronchitis, cystitis, and the like, and their due appreciation directs to a more rational and successful treatment. It is hardly necessaiy to refer in detail to the various morbid appearances in these disorders. The important part to remember is that we are dealing with the local reaction to a special irritant, and the nature and severity of the changes in the mucous, submucous, and other coats will depend on the individual power of reaction. In some cases the resulting changes will be more of a hypertrophic, and in others of an atrophic nature. Not infrequently more than one etiological factor has to be considered. Mucous Patches. See Syphilis (Ac- quired, Secondary Sig7is, Mucous Membranes); Larynx, Chronic Infective Diseases {Syphilis); Palate [Diseases, Syphilis, Secondary); Pharynx, Chronic Infective Diseases {Syphilis). Mucous R£lles. See Lungs, Diseases OF {Emphysema, etc.). MucrOa—A point; e.g. mucrocordis, the apex of the heart; mucrosterni, the ensiform cartilage. Mucus. See Intestines, Diseases of {Enteritis, Symptoms); Mucous Membranes ; Urine, Pathological Changes in {Mucus-like Substances in Urine). Mucla,r. See Calotropis. Miillerian Ducts. See Embryology; Generation, Female Organs {Arrested Develop- ments) ; Uterus, Malformations of {Develop- ment of Genito-urinary Organs). Muller'S Fluid.—A hardening fluid for microscopical work; it contains bichromate of potash and sodium sulphate in water. Muller'S Method.— A method of testing whether the foetal head can pass through the brim of the pelvis before labour begins. Muller'S Muscle. See Iris and Ciliary Bodies {Anatomy). M ij 11 e r'S R i n g.—An annular prominence seen sometimes on the wall of the lower part of the body of the uterus in pregnancy and labour; it possibly indicates the os internum uteri. Mugfuet.—Thrush or parasitic stomatitis. See Stomatitis {Parasitic). Mulberry Calculus. See Bladder, Injuries and Diseases {Calculus). Mulder's Test. — The indigo-carmine test for glucose, also the xanthoproteic reaction test for proteids. Mules' Operation. See Sympathetic Ophthalmitis {Etiology); also Eyeball, Injuries OF {Treatment). Multi-.—In compound words multi- has the meaning of many; e.g. multilobular (with many lobes), multinuclear (with many nuclei), multipolar (with several poles or processes, as in multipolar nerve cells), multifid (with many fasciculi, as the 7>iusculus multifidus spince). Multig'ravida.—A woman who has been more than once pregnant. MultilOCUlar. — Possessing several spaces, cavities, or loculi, e.g. a multilocular cystic ovarian tumour. See Ovaries, Diseases OF {Common Ovarian Cyst). Multipara.—A woman who has had more than one confinement, or, less often, a woman who has borne twins or triplets (the better word in this latter sense is pluripara); a woman pregnant for the second time may be called a secundipara, for the third time a tertipara, for the fourth time a quartipara, etc. See Preg- nancy, Diagnosis {Diagnosis of Primiparity and Multiparity). M U It i pie.—Many or manifold; e.g. multiple fractures {see Fractures, Classification), multi- ple gangrene {see Gangrene, Varieties), multiple pregnancy {see Labour in Multiple Pregnancy ; Pregnancy, Multiple), and multiple sclerosis {see Paralysis). Mum m ification. — The post-mortem change in which the tissues become dry and hard ; in the case of antenatal death mummi- fication of the foetus is an aseptic change result- ing often in the flattened foetus {foetus com- pressus). Mumps, or Epidemic Parotitis. Pathology ...... 474 Symptoms ...... 474 Complications— (1) Local 475 (2) etastatic Glandular Affections . 4:75 (3) Nervous Symptoms . . . 475 (4) Affections of the Ear and Eye . 476 (5) General 476 Diagnosis . . . .476 Prognosis ...... 476 Treatment ...... 476 See also Brain, Inflammations {Acute En- cephalitis, Etiology); Diphtheria {Diagnosis); Disinfection (Quarantine); Infection (Preven- tion) ; Scrotum and Tes?'icle, Diseases (Orchitis, Etiology).