129 MALARIA contains a few flattened or distorted corpuscles ; (3) the single-layer zone, in which the red corpuscles are seen to be arranged in close ap- position to one another, edge to edge, but not overlapping; (4) the heaped-up zone, in which the red corpuscles overlap one another ; (5) the zone of rouleaux; (6) the zone of free hsemo- globin in which the blood has become lakey. The zones that should be used for studying the malarial parasite are the single-layer, and the heaped-up zones of free haemoglobin. The former is more generally useful, but the latter is a good one for observing the evolution of the flagella from the micro-gametocytes. A field in the single-layer zone having been selected, the oil immersion lens is substituted for the ^ ob- jective. The interior of every red cell should be then carefully scrutinised; field after field should be examined. Unless at least half an hour has been spent over the specimen, a nega- tive diagnosis cannot be considered as satisfac- tory. Melanin granules in the leucocytes should be looked for, because these also afford evidence of recent malarial infection. Whilst the blood preparation is being reviewed in this way, any abnormality other than malarial should be noted, such as evidence of anaemia, leucocytosis, filarise, bacteria, excess of fibrin, etc., for in the absence of malaria a clue to diagnosis may be found in the presence or absence of these abnormalities. A well-prepared specimen will keep from six to twelve hours; after this time it is useless, as the red cells become much crenated, or the blood may become lakey. Some observers do not consider it necessary to ring the cover-glass with vaseline ; but there is no doubt that the preparation keeps longer by excluding the air, and by preventing over-compression of the blood cells from evaporation. For the stained preparations dry blood films must be made. It is a matter of choice whether they be made on cover-glasses or on slides. The writer usually makes them on slides; but for the Romanowsky, and for some of the other special methods of staining, it is better to use films made on cover-glasses. The technique is as follows :—Clean a sufficient number of slides, or cover-glasses, as the case may be; cleanse and prick the finger in the way described for making the fresh preparations, taking, however, a rather larger drop of blood. Cut some strips of gutta- percha tissue about 2 inches long and f inch wide, and have them in readiness. Apply one of these strips so that it becomes charged with blood close to the free edge ; lay this on a slide, wet surface downwards, holding it by the uncharged end, wait a second or two so that the blood may settle on the slide, and then with a rather slow and jerky movement of the hand draw it along the glass. In this layer a beauti- fully thin film may be made with the red corpuscles arranged in a single layer. The VOL. VI same piece of gutta-percha, as long as it re- mains smooth and free from crinkles, may be used for as many films as may be required. In some tropical countries gutta-percha tissue does not keep ; in this case cigarette papers, or the smooth edge of writing-paper, may be used, strips being cut of suitable size. Another good method is as follows:—Take either a square or an oblong cover-glass; charge one edge of it with blood, and bring it in contact with a slide so that it rests at about an angle of 45°; wait as before so that the blood may run on to the slide, and then push the cover-glass somewhat rapidly along the slide; as it passes over the slide it leaves behind it an extremely thin and regular film. Care must be taken to use only a very small quantity of blood when employing this last method. The cover-glass films may be made by the ordinary two cover-glass method, but this is not to be recommended for malarial blood pre- parations. Mr. W. C. Pakes has invented a holder for cover-glasses, so that smears may be made with gutta-percha tissue in the same way as is done on slides. It is intended for oblong cover-glasses 1^ inches by | inch in size. The films having been made by one of these methods, and having been air dried, next re- quire to be fixed. This may be done by im- mersing them in absolute alcohol, or in equal parts of absolute alcohol and ether, for not less than ten minutes. They may also be fixed by heating them for one hour at a temperature of from 110° C. to 120° C. The first method is usually employed. When the fixing fluid has evaporated the film is ready to stain. The specimen may be single stained or double stained. For ordinary clinical purposes the former is recommended because it is simpler and more reliable. There are many ways of staining malarial blood. Four methods which give good results in the writer's hands will be described ; two of these are single stains, and two are double stains :— I. Borax-Methylene Blue Formula. Best medicinal methylene blue 2 per cent. Borax ..... 5 ,, Distilled water . . .93 ,, Dissolve. It improves by keeping, and it should be filtered before use. The specimen should be stained for from thirty to fifty seconds; the shorter time suffices when using stains that have been kept some time. Wash well in tap water, dry, and mount in xylol- canada balsam. The nuclei of the leucocytes are stained a deep blue, the protoplasm of the parasite stains a lighter blue, and the nucleolus an intense blue. The red corpuscles are stained faintly. 9