294 HELENA recovery did not occur, it is possible that the future may provide indications justifying re- course to surgical measures in the treatment of a few cases of melsena. (See also " Hsema- temesis," " Stomach," etc.) Melagfra..—Pain in the limbs. Melaleuca Leucadendron.—The plant from the leaves of which cajuput oil {Oleum Cajuputi) is obtained. See Cajuput Oil. Melalg'ia.—Pain in the limbs. See Lung, Tuberculosis of (Complications, Nervoiis, Neuritis). Melam.—Tricyanogen diamide (CgHgNu), a product of the combustion of mercuric thiocyanate, as is seen in the scientific toy known as Pharaoh's Serpents. Melansemia. — The presence of dis- integrated hsemoglobin in the blood. See Malaria {Definition). Melanag'Og'Ue.—A drug causing dark- coloured motions from the bowels; a medicine supposed to be able to expel "black bile." Melanchofiai See Adolescent In- sanity {Insanities of Adolescence, Character); Alcoholic Insanity {Cases characterised by Melancholia); Brain, Tumours op {Mental Disturbance); Chorea {Choreic Insanity, Agitated Melancholia); Climacteric Insanity {Clinical Forms, Melancholia); Epileptic Insanity {Epileptic Melancholia); General Paralysis {Syyiq^toms); Hypnotism {Therapeutic Uses, Insanity); Insanity, its Nature and Symptoms {Ty2)es of Episodic Insanity); Meno- pause {Climacteric Melancholia, Treatment); Labour, Operations {Induction of Premature Labour, Indications); Pregnancy, Affections AND Complications of {Nervous System); Puerperium, Pathology of {Puerperal In- sanities) ; Senile Insanity {Psychoses of Senility, Melancholia); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Symptomatology, Remote Symptoms); Suicide; Uterus, Associated Insanity. Melanin. See Pigments op the Body and Excreta {The Melanins); Physiology, Tissues {Pigment Cells); Skin, Pigmentary Affections of {Nature of Pigments). Melanism.—A condition in which the natural colour of the skin is darkened by the deposition of pigment, as in Addison's Disease, in phthisis, and after the prolonged use of nitrate of silver; it is opposed to albinism. Melano-.—In compound words melano- signifies pigmented or dark coloured, e.g. melano- sarcoma (a pigmented sarcoma), melanocyte (a leucocyte containing pigment granules), melano- scirrhus (a scirrhous cancer showing pigmenta- tion), melanoiyathy (a disease in which the de- position of pigment is a characteristic sign), etc. MelanOChroi.—A variety of mankind characterised by smooth and dark hair, and a pale complexion (Huxley). Melanoderma or Melano- dermia.—A morbid condition in which there is an excess of pigment in the cutaneous tissues. See Pregnancy, Intra-utebine Diseases {Pig- mentary Anomalies of the Skin). Melanog'en. — The substance which yields melanin. See Pigments op the Body AND Excreta {Melanins in Urine). Melanoma.—A tumour containing dark pigment (melanin). See Tumours of the Skin {Melanotic Sarcoma). Me lanoplakia.— Pigmentation of patches of the mucous membrane of the mouth, seen in certain diseases. Melanosis.—The morbid deposition of black pigment in a tissue or organ of the body; it is a term somewhat widely and loosely used to include xeroderma pigmentosum, keloid, melanotic sarcoma, anthracosis or coal-miner's lung, etc. See Tumours ; Xeroderma Pigment- osum ; Lungs, Pneumonokoniosis ; etc. MelanothanatOS.—Plague (literally. Black Death). See Plague. Melanuria. — The presence of dark- coloured pigments in the urine. See Urine, Pathological Changes in {Colour, Pigments). Melasma. — Any disease characterised by dark or black coloration of the skin, e.g. Addison's Disease {suprarenal melasma), chloasma uterinum, etc. See Adrenal Glands, Addison's Disease ; Skin, Pigmentary Affec- tions OF {Melasmic Leucopathia). Melezitose. — A sugar (CigHgjOjg -t- SHgO) obtained from the larch. Melicera or Meliceris. — A cyst containing a honey-like substance, such as a steatoma or an atheroma ; also, the honey-like contents of a distended joint. Mel i lot.—A leguminous plant {Melilotus ofiicinalis), the dried flowers of which used to be employed in making plasters, poultices, etc. Melioform.—A disinfectant liquid pre- paration, consisting of formaldehyde, acetate of aluminium, etc., which can be used for the hands, for instruments, and as a gargle. Melitose or Melitriose.—A sugar obtained from eucalyptus; a triose yielding galactose, glucose, and fructose on hydrolysis.