11 LUNACY 1891, it can be said that in England and Scot- land there was no increase to speak of beyond that justified by population. In Ireland, on the other hand, there was in a declining population a rise of 15 per cent, which under normal con- ditions would reach 26 per cent. The fact that by the census return of 1891 Ireland had a ratio per 10,000 of 45, against one for England of 33, and Scotland of 35, would indicate that insanity is much more prevalent in Ireland than in the other two countries, making every allow- ance that in Ireland, with few centres of popula- tion, the enumerators were in a better position to know persons of imsound mind other than registered cases. These figures do not, except in the case of Ireland, afford any assistance to the believers in the nation being undermined by insanity and imbecility. The figures for the three countries at once suggest the relative economic conditions prevailing. It will be found that in England in ten years there has been an increase of lunatics of all classes of 22'8 per cent—that is to say, assuming the popula- tion increment to be 11 per cent, there is an increase between 1891 and 1900 of 11'8 per cent, or an excess of 1*1 per cent per annum. Between these years among private patients the increase has been 7"4 per cent; among pauper patients the increase has been 24'5. Of admis- sions of all kinds, not including transfers and readmissions, the increase between 1890 and 1899 has been 18-7 per cent, a balance in excess of that warranted by population of 7'7 per cent or "77 per annum. It is this '77 per cent in- crease which has got to be accepted or explained in some way. The proportion (per cent) of recoveries to admissions has fallen in the last three quinquenniads from 40-1, 39-2, to 38-7, and deaths (per cent) to daily average resident from 9-59, 9-86, to 9-50. The deaths in Scot- land (per cent) fell from 7-1, 7-8, to 7-5, and recoveries 13, 13-4, to 12-9. Taking for the past two decenniads the average number of all classes registered for the first time, the increase is one of 24 per cent, or making allowance for the population increment, 1"4 per cent per annum, private patients being credited with '9 per cent, and pauper with To per cent per annum. From the last report of the General Board of Lunacy for Scotland it would appear that be- tween the last two quinquenniads private and pauper patients in residence in institutions and in private dwellings have increased. All parts of the country do not contribute alike to the increase of pauper lunacy—the Highland, in- sular, and eastern areas contributing in pro- portion to population more than double the central and southern. Not quite the same results are reached when the admission rate to institutions is examined. That rate in the case of private patients shows no increase beyond that justified by population, and from that it is deduced that the increased proportion in resi- dence is due to a process of accumulation simi- lar to what has taken place in the case of pauper patients. And there can be little doubt that by the better distribution of wealth the class from which private patients are drawn is an increasing one and cannot be less than 10 per cent of the population. This is so far satis- factory and assuring as regards private patients. With regard to the admissions to institutions of pauper patients there has been an increase per 100,000 of population of 9-5 per cent, an in- crease implying that on an average in every year of the later quinquenniad 168 more patients were placed in institutions than in the earlier. The absence of an increased admission rate of private patients to asylums in Scotland during the past twenty years is also the experience of England. I)uring the past ten years the average annual number of cases 7iever previously registered was 2382, the average annual number on the Register 13,483 ; the former figure exceeding that warranted by growth of population by 44 annually, the latter by 215. The former figure suggests the ease with which so small a number can be accounted for annually under the newer conceptions of lunacy, the latter figure at once suggests accumulation. A full and fair consideration of the data avail- able warrants the conclusion that the liability to insanity is not greater in the community now than formerly, and justifies the belief that the statistical increases in England and Scotland in excess of population may be satisfactorily ex- plained on the following four grounds: Ji7'st, such an elasticity in certification in response to the newer conceptions of what constitutes un- soundness of mind as to admit to the official registers cases of slight mental warp, of de- generacy, and of functional insanity; second, the introduction of larger numbers of cases of senility to institutional and private-dwelling care ; third, an increasing readiness on the part of the affiuent and well-to-do, influenced by social considerations, to hand over their insane to the care of others, and thereby to the official list; and fourth, less hesitancy on the part of the 90 per cent of the community who claim not to be and who are not really in a position, no matter what the degree of mental obliquity may be, to maintain their insane without public relief in some shape, to demand or accept it, and thereby not only to divide moral and legal responsibilities with the authorities, but to augment the roll of lunacy. Lunacy Laws—Functions of Medical Practitioners Duties of Medical Men.—To say that the duties of the general practitioner in relation to mental disease are of a highly i-esponsible nature is to utter a truism. Perhaps of all who are