LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 41 there may be determinable undue pallor, flaccid- ity or catarrhal condition of the parts with func- tional disability, which may be the forerunner of tuberculosis. For the latter infection is in the great majority of cases secondary to the pulmo- nary lesion. The devitalised tissues are easily disturbed by infective sputum, which lies in contact especially with the posterior surfaces by night and at resting times. A doubly vicious influence is exerted. Chemically, the expectora- tion exerts unhealthy influence on the tissues, through the presence of toxins, and, bacterio- logically, the tubercle bacillus may obtain a suitable nidus in the feebly resisting structures. Primary laryngeal tuberculosis is much less common. The parts especially affected are the interarytenoid fold, the aryteno-epiglottidean fold, and the posterior ends of the true cords ; but any part may be attacked. The process is, at first, infiltrative and, later, ulcerative. The symptoms include all degrees of aphonia, from mere huskiness to loss of voice, pain, dyspnoea. When the epiglottis is affected, dysphagia is apt to appear, and frequently forms a most distressing feature. Lupus of the larynx occurs as a rare phenomenon. The trachea and bronchi may be affected secondarily by tuberculous deposits, leading to ulcerative changes. The smaller bronchi are frequently disturbed, and tuberculous bronchitis and peribronchitis ensue. Apart from this, simple bronchitis may complicate the disease from time to time. It is not surprising to find the tubes in an unhealthy state, apart from actual infection, through the constant presence of more or less irritating discharge. The lung may suffer in a variety of ways. Some degree of emphysema is generally present. This is the result of forced expiratory effort in coughing. Elsewhere I have indicated reasons for adopting the name "complementary" rather than "compensatory." The symptoms are con- sidered in their proper place {vide "Emphysema," p. 73). The latter frequently obscure those of the associated tuberculosis. It is desirable to accentuate the significance of patchy areas of emphysema as a sign contributory to the diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis. Pneumo- nokoniosis may have been the starting-point of the process. Though it is not an universal rule, the tendency is for the infiltrative con- solidation produced by dusty occupations to become secondarily tuberculous through inocula- tion (vide " Pneumonokoniosis "). Gangrene is not a common complication ; it does, however, occasionally occur. Acute pneumonia supervenes often enough in patients who have tuberculous lungs. Indeed, the weakened lung would appear to afford especial nidus for the pneumo- coccus. Except for the superadded difficulty in diagnosis, owing to the pre-existing consolida- tion, the phenomena do not differ from those commonly met with in pneumonia. The course of the pneumonia is not necessarily aggravated; contrariwise, it sometimes appears unusually light. The effect on the tuberculous lung is various. In many cases no effect is determin- able. Sometimes the tuberculosis is awakened to fresh activity and the patient is sent more quickly down the hill. Sometimes the tuber- culous process actually seems benefited by the attack. So-called hroncho-pneumonia signifies in most instances an exacerbation and extension of the tuberculous process. From this point of view it is of first importance. The disease may assume from the first a broncho-pneumonic character, or a previously quiescent process may assume it later. In either case the progress may be very rapid. The pleura is certain to be affected at one time or another. In some cases, pleurisy appears to precede the tuberculosis and, as is sometimes stated, leads up to it. This is a misinterpretation. The pleurisy is, as a rule, an effect of an already existing infection. It is a toxic disturbance of the serous surface, in some cases due to the eruption through the pleura of tubercle directly, in others to the action of circulating toxins. The pleurisy may be dry. Such dry pleurisies occur frequently in the course of pulmonary tuberculosis, in some cases accompanied by pain, in others painless. Adhesions are likely to follow to less or greater extent, till gradually the lung gets bound down; this condition shows itself in limited movement of the affected area. Or the pleurisy is accompanied by effusion of fluid; this may be indicated, though not always, by aggravation of symptoms, especially breathless- ness and pain, and by physical methods (vide " Pleurisy "). In turn, such a pleurisy is likely to induce adhesions, often with marked thicken- ing of pleura and subpleural infiltration. The effusion may be simply serous. At other times, especially when actual tubercle is present in the pleura, it is hsemorrhagic. Or, it may be purulent (w'cZe " Empyema "). Tubercle bacilli are sometimes found in the fluid. Following absorption in such cases, a more general dis- tribution of tubercle may occur, and, for ex- ample, symptoms of cerebral or cerebro-spinal meningitis supervene. Pneumothorax is a not uncommon accident in the course of pulmonary tuberculosis. It may occur at any time, but is most likely when excavation has advanced. It commonly results from the bursting of a vomica which has almost reached the pleura. It takes place usually in relation to intrapulmonary stress, as in coughing or making forced effort. The extra strain seems necessary to overcome the cohesion between the layers of the pleura. Apart from such strain, and in presence of sufficient pleural adhesion, pneumothorax is not likely. The accident is indicated by a sudden accession of severe pain, followed by increased