260 MEDICINE, FORENSIC convulsions, epilepsy. It is also possible for petechial ecchymoses to be produced post-mor- tem, as, for example, when a person has hanged himself and the body remains suspended for several hours. The blood then gravitates to the lower limbs, and the weight of a consider- able column of blood may cause rupture of capil- laries, more especially when these happen to be diseased. The seminal fluid frequently found escaping from the urethra after death from violent asphyxia has no medico-legal significance, as it is simply a result of the general post-mortem relaxation of the sphincters in the body, and is therefore found in other forms of death as well as in death from asphyxia. Internal Appearances.—The three chief in- ternal appearances are :— 1. A dark fluid condition of the blood. 2. Distension of the right side of the heart with blood and congestion of the lungs, brain, and other internal organs ; and 3. The presence of petechial ecchymoses. The dark colour of the blood is a general appearance in all forms of death, and is not confined to death from asphyxia, although in the latter it is usually more marked, and shows, with the spectroscope, a greater degree of reduction of the haemoglobin. Reduction of the hsemogiobin, and consequent darkening in the colour of the blood, takes place post-mortem in all forms of death by the action of the tissues, and, finally, owing to putrefactive processes. The fluidity of the blood is a very constant appearance in asphyxia, although it is not confined to violent asphyxia, but is present in most cases where respiration has been interfered with from any cause, and also in cases of sudden death. Fluidity of the blood is not therefore absolutely characteristic of asphyxia. The congestion of the right side of the heart, lungs, and other internal organs is not a constant appearance, and in death from drowning, hang- ing, strangulation, suffocation, and other typical forms of death from asphyxia, the congestion of the lungs and other organs may be by no means marked. As already indicated, this is accounted for by the fact that such congestion is produced by the dyspnoea and efforts at inspiration which occur at the commencement of asphyxia, and therefore should this stage be present only to a slight degree, it follows that the post-mortem appearances will be relatively altered. Petechial ecchymoses similar to those men- tioned as occurring externally may be found under the pleurte and epicardium, in the peri- cardium, in the connective tissue in various parts of the body—e.g. under the sternum, around the aorta—in the larynx, trachea, epiglottis, and in the scalp as well as within the cranium, on the dura mater, etc. Considerable importance may be attached to the pi-esence of such ecchymoses in the diagnosis of death from violent forms of asphyxia, more especially when they are present in the various situations indicated above ; but as already men- tioned, they are not absolutely characteristic, since, for example, in cases of children dying during convulsions, similar ecchymoses are frequently found. Death from Hanging.—In this form of death the constricting force is the weight of the body exerted upon a rope or other band passing round the neck. The only characteristic external appearance is the mark produced by the constricting band. Apart from this there is usually nothing to indicate that death has taken place from causes other than natural; the face is pale and placid, and there is no evidence of any struggle. The mark of constriction is a furrow, its depth, breadth, and appearance depending upon the nature of the constricting band. It is usually of a brownish-red colour, and the skin has a hard, parchment-like consistence where the greatest pressure has been exerted. This parchment-like appearance is due to compres- sion of the skin and also to abrasion of the cuticle, causing a desiccation of the skin, and it is purely the result of physical processes. A similar appearance is produced by injuring the cuticle on any part of the body after death, and hence in cases of hanging it must not be looked upon as indicative of suspension during life; it will also occur in bodies suspended after death. Frequently, however, in the parchment-like area or at its edges, injection or hypersemia of the capillaries and ecchymoses will be found ; this is indicative of suspension during life, and cannot be simulated by post-mortem suspension. If the constricting band has been of soft material, e.g. a silk handkerchief, then the cuticle is not likely to be abraded, and hence we do not have a brown, parchment-like con- dition produced, but simply a pale furrow with more or less lividity of the edges on either side, but more especially above the furrow. The position of the constriction mark will vary according to the mode of suspension : if a run- ning noose has been employed, or the rope is tied close round the neck before suspension, then the furrow will completely encircle the neck, the position of the knot being indicated by an irregular area of compression, while the deepest depression of the furrow will be on the side opposite to that on which the knot has been situated. If, however, as most commonly hap- pens, the neck is placed in a fixed loop, then the constriction mark will only partially encircle the neck, and it assumes the highest position which the anatomical relations will allow. In such cases we find the furrow, as a rule, running in front of the neck between the hyoid and thy- roid cartilages, passing backwards and upwards behind the angle of the jaw and the mastoid