MALINGERING 162 pieces of ordinary stony matter being pushed up the urethra, and common sand placed in the urine chamber. Stricture of the urethra has been complained of in the writer's experience, although a large silver catheter passed into the bladder, but the patient strained and endeavoured to resist its passage. Hsematuria is feigned by mixing blood with the urine ; blood has actually been injected into the bladder, if records are accurate. Even children have stained their urine by placing dyed rags therein in schemes of simulation. Albumin is sometimes mixed with the urine in the form of white of egg or meat juice. The writer operated once upon a young woman whose bladder contained a calcareous mass deposited on and amidst a congeries of hair-pins. " Uterine hsemorrhage " has been caused by lacerations and scratchings of the vaginal walls with scissors, with the object of obtaining re- lease from imprisonment on medical grounds. Incontinence of urine, when feigned, may be detected by various stratagems: by watching the man, when muscular expulsive efforts may be detected; by observing whether he voids urine to his own inconvenience, as in bed, etc. ; by observing whether the glans penis is in the sodden state common to the true disease. The author was called to examine a man who had had a fall of a trivial nature, but who said that, as a result, he could not hold his water more than twenty minutes. He was kept under observation for three-quarters of an hour, and not allowed an opportunity of micturating, but kept occupied by a minute examination of other parts of his system. Then he was asked to pass water, and the amount being measured was found to be eight ounces. The water was chemically examined, and found to be normal in specific gravity and in ingredients. It was then pointed out to the man that he had re- tained his water for at least three-quarters of an hour, and, moreover, that the quantity passed, multiplied by the number of equal periods in the twenty-four hours, made it clear that he had not made water for some consider- able time before he presented himself for examination. Nervous diseases are simulated chiefly in the form of local paresis after accidents. Sometimes hemiplegia or paraplegia is feigned. We must in these cases satisfy ourselves by the scientific means at our disposal that actual ohjective signs exist, and no serious trophic changes have occurred, which cannot be accounted fm- by the mere disuse of parts; superficial and deep reflexes must be examined ; electrical tests will discover degeneration of nerA'es. But we must observe the case in its entirety, and especially watch for inconsistencies, which can generally be found either during the examination, or when the patient is unaware that he is being seen and watched. In these cases, as in other malingered conditions, there can be no rule for the detection. Ingenuity of device on our part must suggest pitfalls for the simulator to stumble into. Painful tests can be morally defended when applied to parts in which the " patient" assures us that he has " lost all feeling." Somewhat heroic electrical " stimulation" is capable of " curing " many cases. An apparent neglect is one of the most potent means of bringing some patients to discontinue paralytic impostures. The writer had to see a man who had had a superficial scalp wound of the posterior part of the vertex; his mouth was dropped markedly at the left angle; and he complained that "the doctors had done something to his head, and he had lost his brain since." His lower jaw was apparently drawn to the left side, as if by a subluxation. After examining him minutely, and endeavouring to procure a voluntary re- placement of his mouth, the writer turned him round so that he faced a mirror. His back was then apparently intently examined, he being informed that " spinal disease must be looked for next." While thus apparently busy, the writer looked into the mirror and saw the paralysis of the facial muscles had disappeared, and the virtues of the " miraculous mirror" were pointed out to the man. The jaw also soon resumed its place after a little manipula- tion, and the man became aware that he had not deceived us. A prisoner who was brought encased in spinal and other supports, owing to an incorrect diagnosis of paralysis extending from the dorsal region downwards, threw aside his supports, after he had been simply examined once, and then absolutely neglected for two weeks, and not even visited in the daily round. He stood dressed at his cell door one morning, saluted the doctor respectfully, and said, " If you please, sir, I wish to work, and do my duty like a man ! " Nervous shock is the stock phrase of dishonest claimants who have sustained accidents in rail- ways and in falls and in street mishaps, and have recovered from any injuries received but wish to build up large monetary claims. We must bear in mind that in children shock is written legibly on their faces, which wear a worn, sad expression, and the habitual smile is banished. In grown-up people we see the same aspect with fine tremors of the fingers and hands, and sometimes fibrillary tremors of the facial muscles. Irritability of the pupils, sluggish or exaggerated superficial and deep reflexes and palpitation of the heart are common. The mental reflex is often slow, so that questions are slowly answered. Emotional displays and sometimes marked irritability of temper are often seen. " Shock " is much less