MEDICINE; MEDICAL PRACTITIONEE, LAW AS TO 288 and are known as the Medical Acts. By their operation, and especially by that of the Act of 1886, the scope of the original Act has been considerably enlarged. The constitution of the General Council has been remodelled. It now consists of thirty members, five of whom are appointed by the Crown, twenty are chosen by universities and medical colleges, and five are elected by the registered medical practitioners in England, Scotland, and Ireland (Act of 1886, s. 7). Medical Council.—By sec. 3 of the Act of 1858 the " General Council of Medical Education and Registration of the United Kingdom" was established. They were directed to appoint registrars (s. 10), who were to keep a correct register of persons legally qualified to practise medicine (s. 15). The register, showing the qualifications of the persons in it, is to be published annually; and the absence from it of any name of any person is prima facie proof that he is not registered (s. 27). The qualifying degrees are set out and enumerated in sec. 18 and Sched. A, as amended by subsequent Acts; and the General Council were empowered, in case it should appear to them that the course of study and examinations to be gone through in order to obtain a qualification from any of the bodies named was not such as to secure the possession by persons obtaining such qualifica- tion of the requisite knowledge and skill for the efficient practice of their profession, to represent the same to the Privy Council (s. 20), who may thereupon order that any qualification granted to such body shall not confer the right to be registered (s. 21 ; Act of 1886, s. 4). No ex- amining body may, however, impose upon a candidate offering himself for examination an obligation to adopt or refrain from adopting the practice of any particular theory of medicine or surgery {e.g. homoeopathy) as a test or condition of admitting him to examination or granting him a certificate. A body who do so may lose their power of conferring any right to be registered (s. 23). If any registered practitioner is con- victed of a crime, or adjudged by the General Council to have been guilty of infamous conduct in any professional respect, the Council may order his name to be erased from the register (s. 28). They are the sole judges of all questions of fact in such inquiries, and there is no appeal from their decision {Allbutt v. General Council, 1889, 23 Q. B. D. 400). But they must inquire into the case and decide it themselves, after giving the person implicated an opportunity of being heard on the point. The mere withdrawal of a diploma by the body which originally granted it is not of itself a sufficient ground for removing a name from the register {Ex 2Mrte Partridge, 1887, 19 Q. B. D. 467). If it is shown that a medical man, in the pursuit of his profession, has done something which would reasonably be regarded as disgraceful or dis- honourable by his professional brethren of good repute and competency, it is open to the Council to find him guilty of " infamous conduct in a professional respect." They must, of course, have evidence on which to support their finding {Allinsonv. General Council, [1894] 1 Q. B. 750). The issue of advertisements with a view to induce the public to consult the advertiser in preference to other practitioners comes within this definition {ibid.). The Council in the exercise of their functions under this section are a quasi-judicial body. If, therefore, any of the members who take part in the decision of a case have so acted as to disqualify them from acting judicially, e.g. by sitting on a case in which they have shown a bias or have a pecuniary interest, the proceedings might be set aside {Leeson v. General Council, 1889, 43 Ch. D. 366; Alli7ison v. General Council, supra). On the other hand, they cannot be sued for an erroneous exercise of their discretion, as for striking a man off the register when they are not really empowered to do so {Partridge v. General Council, 1890, 25 Q. B. D. 90). The Privy Council have now a general power of supervision over the Medical Council. If at any time it appears to them that the Medical Council has failed to exercise any power or to perform any duty vested in or imposed on it by the Acts, they may notify their opinion to it ; and if the Medical Council fail to comply with any direction of the Privy Council relating to such notification, the Privy Council may them- seh'es give effect to their directions, and exercise any power or do any act vested in or authorised to be done by the Medical Council, and may of their own motion do any act or thing which by the Medical Acts they are authorised to do on a representation from the Medical Council (Act of 1886, s. 19). Qualification for Registration.—Prior to 1887 the various constituents of the Medical Council each granted their own diplomas, entitling their holders to practise in some one or more depart- ments of medicine, e.g. as apothecaries or surgeons. More than one diploma was requi- site for a man who was desirous of practising generally. Since June 1887 no person may be registered unless he has passed a qualifying examination sufficient to guarantee the posses- sion of the knowledge and skill requisite for the efficient practice of medicine, surgery, and midwifery (Act of 1886, ss. 2 and 3). A registered practitioner is entitled to practise medicine, surgery, and midwifery in the United Kingdom, and (subject to any local law) in any part of his Majesty's dominions, and to recover in respect of such practice any expenses, charges \\\ respect of medicaments or other appliances, or any fees to which he may be entitled (except fellows of a college of physicians who, by its bylaws, may be prohibited from suing for their fees (s. 6)).