LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 28 the entire lung, but rather throughout each lobe. The base of the lower lobe would be the last part to be reached in such extension, and this is often so. On the other hand, the base may be affected much earlier by inhalation of bacillus-bearing discharge. In this way a basal caseous pneumonia of considerable extent may result. We have already seen that, when the infection is introduced by the blood circulation, there is a widespread dissemination of tubercle throughout both lungs. When the bacilli reach the lung by lymphatic channels at an unusual point, e.g. in relation to disease of bony or glandular structures, the distribution takes place gradually from the point of first eruption as a centre. Changes in other Organs.—Some of these are incidental to the disease in all its forms. Others are dependent on direct tuberculous involvement of particular organs. The heart is commonly small, pale, and soft, and presents other evidence of fatty degenera- tion. In more chronic lung processes, where fibrosis has proceeded far, the right side of the heart presents evidence of dilatation, and perhaps a trace of hypertrophic change. Peri- carditis and endocarditis are not frequent. Actual deposit of tubercle is very rare. The stomach and bowel may show catarrhal or amyloid changes. The intestine may present tuberculous infiltration or ulceration. The mesenteric glands may be enlarged and caseous. There may be indication of chronic peritonitis. The liver may be fatty or amyloid. The spleen and kidney may be affected by waxy disease. In the case of the latter this may be complicated by inflammatory changes. The tonsils, fauces, and more particularly the larynx may be affected by tuberculous disease. Reference is made to these appearances else- where. The nervous system may be variously dis- turbed ; meningeal tuberculosis (either cerebral or spinal) may determine the fatal result. Tuberculous foci may be found within the brain. In relation to the nerves themselves, evidence of neuritis may be discovered. The muscles throughout the body are usually atrophied to a marked degree, and to some extent in a state of fatty degeneration. Clinical Features The clinical manifestations and course of pulmonary tuberculosis are most inconstant. The symptoms vary endlessly in kind and degree. It will be serviceable, therefore, to in- dicate briefly at this point how it is proposed to consider these. Accepting the essential unity of pulmonary tuberculosis notwithstanding its protean mani- festations, it is necessary to discard as misleading a large part of the attempted subdivisions of the subject. Thus, in the first place, all sub- divisions adopted prior to the establishment of the bacillary doctrine fall to the ground. Further, it serves no useful purpose—and it is apt to breed confusion—to seek to identify clinically all the variations of lung change which may be recognised and separately labelled post-mortem. Such specious refinement of diagnosis is faulty, because the proposed sub- divisions lay too much stress on the local lung lesion. They obscure the identity and unity of the pathological process and its constitutional bearings. The disease is an infective malady, produced by invasion of the lung by the tubercle bacillus, which, unless cured, tends towards death, not alone, or even chiefly, because of disintegration and destruction of lung, but rather through a process of systemic intoxication. The effect of this intoxication is widespread. In addition, there falls to be considered the possibility of complication from the side of nearly every organ. These diversify almost endlessly the clinical picture. The onset and advance of the process is commonly most insidious. The patients cannot tell exactly when it commenced—or they have a most misleading story. There is frequently the fallacious statement of " catching cold" some time or other. There may be more definite allusion to unhygienic surroundings, or conditions favouring infection, or precedent illness, e.g. measles, influenza, which may have led to the disease or stimulated a latent process to fresh activity. In this connection a word of caution is not out of place with reference to supposed precedent illness. For example, there can be no doubt that manifestations of tuberculosis are misinterpreted sometimes and characterised as influenza. Such mistakes, which might be avoided by a rigidly careful scrutiny of the chest, are a source of immediate and future risk to the patient. The patient may complain at first of re- spiratory symptoms, such as cough, expectora- tion, hasmoptysis, dyspnoea, huskiness, or pain. Very frequently the first manifestation to be observed is a pleurisy. This is unfortunately apt to be treated as a disease per se, and not, as it is in a majority of cases, merely a symptom of tuberculosis. On the other hand, he may complain more vaguely of manifestations of constitutional involvement, e.g. languor, lack of keenness and fitness for work, loss of appetite, disturbed digestion, loss of flesh, feverishness, sweating, and the like. In other cases the patient may present himself because of glandular enlarge- ment (cervical, axillary, etc.). In presence of such complaints the duty of the physician is a most pressing one. There is no manner of doubt that, if the condition were more generally suspected and determined at this early period, and the patient's life rearranged suitably, count- less lives might be saved. An important factor in swelling the mortality from pulmonary