266 MEDICINE, FOKENSIC and after four weeks, as a rule, it may be im- possible to give even an approximate estimate as to the time of the occurrence. Abortion. — In Scotland, the procuring of abortion is a crime at common law. The English statute is as follows : " Every woman being with child, who with intent to procure her own miscarriage shall unlawfully administer to herself any poison or other noxious thing, or shall unlawfully use any instrument or other means whatsoever with like intent; and whoso- ever with intent to procure the miscarriage of any woman, whether she be or be not with child, shall unlawfully administer, etc., shall be guilty of a felony. " Whosoever shall unlawfully supply or pro- cure any poison or other noxious thing, or any instrviment or thing whatsoever, knowing that the same is intended to be unlawfully used or employed with intent to procure the miscarriage of any woman, whether she be or be not with child, shall be guilty of a misdemeanour." The intent constitutes the crime; and any person who through his actions with such intent causes death, is guilty of murder. Criminal abortion consists in causing the contents of the womb to be expelled at any period of gestation short of full time, and is not confined to expulsion of the ovum during the earlier months of pregnancy. At the same time it will be noted from the clauses of the statute quoted above, that in order to constitute the crime it is not necessary that the woman shall be pregnant. It is doubtful whether the procuring of abortion for strictly medical reasons is intended to be excepted by the wording of the statute above quoted; but in Scotland, where the crime is prosecuted under the common law, this exception is clearly recognised. In any case there can be no question of the advisability of every medical man protecting himself from any possible reflection upon his conduct, by holding a con- sultation with a colleague before inducing premature labour, and at the same time of informing the relatives of the circumstances and getting their permission. The means used to procure criminal abortion may be divided into three classes :— (1) General mechanical violence, such as violent exercise—jiunping from heights, etc. (2) Administration of drugs. It is not necessary that the drug shall be a poison or even a noxious thing in a popular sense. Almost any substance which causes a violent reaction in the system may excite uterine contractions. Even ordinary medical substances in large doses, such as sulphate of magnesia, aloes, etc., may by their action on the bowel induce abortion. The substances which are most often employed, however, are those which are popularly supposed to have a specific effect, e.g. pennyroyal, rue, savin, ergot, cantharides, etc. (3) Instrumental interference with the con- tents of the uterus. The first two methods are usually employed by the woman herself in the early period of pregnancy — and they are very uncertain. There is no absolutely reliable abortifacient drug—even large doses of ergot being very often futile. Savin is an active irritant poison, and frequently causes death without any effect on the uterus having been produced. In the post-mortem examination of cases where criminal abortion is suspected, the contents of the stomach and intestines should be carefully examined for traces of vegetable substances which may, in the absence of chemical tests, lead to the identification of the substance taken. In considering charges of abortion, a medical witness must always keep in mind its great frequency in a very large proportion of women, owing to natural causes, and by what slight means it may be accidentally induced in those who are predisposed. When the period arrives at which it becomes difficult to conceal the pregnancy, i.e. after the fourth month, and after other methods have failed, the third and most certain method of procuring abortion, viz., instrumental interfer- ence, is usually resorted to. This the woman may attempt to carry out herself, but more commonly she seeks the aid of another. There can be little doubt that only a small proportion of the total number of criminal abortions be- come the subject of investigation, since, if all goes well, there is every reason for concealment of the crime. A fatal result is generally due to septicsemia, the result of perforation of the cervix or uterus with the instrument employed. Such instruments are usually more or less pointed and septic, so that in the hands of persons un- skilled in anatomy they are very dangerous. It has been stated by an eminent authority that if acute septicEemia follows abortion in the course of a few days, instrumental interference is to be suspected. The signs of abortion in the living will de- pend upon the period of gestation reached, and also the time which has elapsed since the occur- rence, and hence an early examination should always be made in such cases. In a few days after abortion at an early stage, all traces of discharge from the womb, patulous condition of the OS, etc., may have disappeared, or at any rate may render a definite opinion impossible. In abortion at early stages all matters which have come away from the uterus should, if possible, be carefully examined, clots of blood, etc., being placed in a basin of water and searched for traces of an ovum. Abortion cannot be definitely affirmed unless distinct traces of an ovum are found. The signs of abortion in the dead will, as a rule, even at early stages, be definite in character; but we must be careful not to confound the appear-