530 NECK, REGION OF Diagnosis.—The main diagnostic points re- garding tumours of the neck have already, in most cases, been touched on. It should be remembered that the principal sign of a thyroid tumour, solid or cystic, is that it moves with deglutition. This sign, however, may occasion- ally be absent in thyroid tumours of great size, and, as has been pointed out above, it may be present in certain other rare swellings. In pulsating swellings of the neck, solid or fluid, the surgeon must be careful to satisfy himself (see " Aneurysm ") that the pulsation felt is not the communicated pulsation of an adjacent artery. Again, in tumours wrider the sterno- mastoid the muscle can generally be displaced to one side; in tumours of the sterno-mastoid they move with the muscle. In many cases the diagnosis of swellings in the neck has to be made by the process of exclusion, and after the removal of all sources of peripheral irritation. In some cases an absolute diagnosis previous to operation cannot be made at all. The greatest difficulties in this respect are presented by the glandular swellings of the neck. Necro-.—in compoimd words necro- (Gr. ve/cpos, a dead body) means relating to death or to a dead body; e.g. necrogenous (growing on dead substances), necropolis (a cemetery), and necroscopy (examination of the body after death). Necrobiosis. — Degeneration and ulti- mate death of the histological elements of the tissues, due to imperfect nutrition; a slower form of death than necrosis. NecromimeslS. — A morbid mental state in which the patient is under the delusion that he is dead. Necrophilism.—The morbid desire for contact with dead bodies, or even for eating the flesh of a corpse. Necrophobia.—Morbid fear of death or of a dead body. Necropsy.—A post-mortem examination or autopsy. See Post-mortem Methods. Necrosis.—Death of a localised part or piece of tissue, e.g. of a bone; mortification. See Bone, Diseases of {Pyogenic Diseases, Necrosis without Suppuration); Coagulation- Necrosis ; Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration {Endomastoiditis, Results); Mouth, Injuries and Diseases op Jaw {Inflammatory Diseases and Necrosis); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequelce, Necrosis). Necrosis, Colliquative.—Death of the tissues with softening and liquefaction, but without decomposition. Necrosis, Fat.—A form of necrosis may which succeed the fatty degeneration of a part; Balser's necrosis. Necrosis, Maragliano's.—A pro- cess of decoloration which occurs in erythrocytes and changes them into " shadow" corpuscles, described by Maragliano and Castellino as endoglobular necrosis. Necrosis, Phosphorus. See Toxi- cology {Non-metallic Elements, Phosphorus), Needling'.—An operative method of deal- ing with cataract; also an operation recom- mended by Macewen in aneurysm. See Aneurysm {Treatment, Needling). Neem Bark.—The bark of Melia aza- dirachta ; also called Margosa bark. It contains bitter principles and is used as a bitter. It is official in the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the British Pharmacopoeia; and there are two preparations, the Infusum Azadirachtce Indices (dose, ^ to 1 fl. oz.) and the Tinctura Azadirachtce Indicce (dose, to 1 fl. dr.). Ne'ftel'S Disease.—A morbid state in which, while movements can be performed when the patient is recumbent, they cannot be done or only with difficulty when erect. (W. B. Neftel was born in Russia in 1830; died in America, 1906.) Negro Cachexia.—A form of pica or depraved appetite met with in negroes in associa- tion with certain diseases. Negro Lethargy.—Sleeping sickness (g.v.), African lethargy, or Nelavan. Neisser's Coccus.—The gonococcus. Ndlaton's Dislocation. — Disloca- tion upwards at the ankle-joint. See Ankle- JoiNT, Region of. Injuries {Dislocations). N6laton'S Line.—See Hip-Joint, Dis- eases OF {Tuberculosis, Third Stage). It is an imaginary line drawn from the anterior superior iliac spine to the most prominent part of the ischial tuberosity, and it crosses the hip at the upper border of the great trochanter when no displacement of the latter exists. Nelavan.—See Sleeping Sickness. Nematoda.—The round worms (Gr. vriixa, a thread). See Parasites {Nematodes). Nenndorf.—See Balneology {Germany, Sulphur Waters). NeO-.—In compound words neo- (Gr. veos, young or new) means new, e.g. neoarthrosis (a false joint), neogenesis (regeneration), etc. NecfoetUS. — The transition organism standing between the embryo and foetus as the