MEDICINE, HISTORY OF 273 up into numerous petty sects, morally degraded and despised. Endowed with indomitable industry, he set himself to the work of reform- ing abuses and of restoring medicine to the position in which it had been left by Hippo- crates. He was an extraordinarily prolific writer and an enthusiastic anatomist, though compelled by the popular prejudice against such profanation of "the human form divine" to content himself with the dissection and—in his eager search after "the causes of things," i.e. physiology or the science of life—the vivisection of the lower animals, as sheep and swine. His fatal errors were an impatience of the delay, doubt, and suspension of judgment, inseparable from inductive methods of research, and a craving after a finality and completeness unattainable under the conditions and limita- tions of human knowledge, with a facility for the construction of systems and invention of hypotheses, not as means toward an end, but as satisfactory explanations of every pheno- menon, though in themselves pure assumptions. It was to this character rather than to their real merits that his writings owed their great popularity for nearly a thovisand years, espe- cially in the later Middle Ages, when the habit of observation was lost and when, alike in science and religion, authority ruled supreme, though the teachers and leaders of thought allowed their imaginations to run riot, spinning ingenious but baseless theories to which facts were made to conform, or which, if that were impossible, could easily be altei-ed to fit the facts. Substituting for the humours of Hip- pocrates four elements or conditions, the hot, cold, wet, and dry — the due admixture of which constituted health, and to the disturbance of which equilibrium as well as to a faulty composition of the blood, as by the presence in it of bile or phlegm, he ascribed diseases or rather the causes or conditions of disease,—he sought to discover corresponding properties in drugs, and to treat disease by supplying in food or medicines those that he supposed were at the time deficient in the body. It is hard to believe that so acute a thinker could have failed to see that heat and cold are but degrees of temperature and moist and dry but relative expressions, as long and short, or that the second in each pair is but the negation of the former. Doubtless, he meant to indicate excess and defect in relation to the normal temperature of the body and moisture of the tissues; but the words must have borne a different significa- tion when applied to the properties of drugs, the infusions, tinctures, and extracts still called Galenical preparations; he probably ascribed "moisture" to diaphoretics, and dryness to astringents, cold to antipyretics, and so on. Be this at it may, his preconceived notions and self-sufficient dogmatism led him to neglect the practice of conscientious observation inculcated VOL. VI by the father of Greek medicine. His ana- tomical studies, however, enabled him to give a precision to surgical ojierations far exceeding that attained by his predecessors. At Rome the Methodistic school held its ground and produced the only Latin medical author of note since Celsus, viz., Cselius Aurelianus, already mentioned as the translator or exponent of the Greek Soranus, and a few in succeeding centuries who produced short translations, compilations, and herbals—one of which, jDublislied under the name or pseudonym of Apuleius Platonicus, deserves notice, as having in the ninth century been translated into Anglo-Saxon, and remained a standard authority on medical botany till the fifteenth or sixteenth century. Byzantine medicine was, until the introduction of the Arabian, essentially Galenic, and the literature consisted of little else than compilations from the works of Galen and his commutators, with excerpts from Hippocrates, Dioscorides, and others. Oribasius (a.d. 326-403), physician to Julian the Apostate, is the first whose writings have come down to us. Aetius and Alexander of Tralles, in the sixth century, were more eclectic. But the most famous and, in some respects, original writer of this school was Paul of yEgina, who, living in the seventh century, was equally eminent as a surgeon and an obstetrician. His work on obstetrics is lost, but that on surgery, which gives a good idea of the progress of the art at that period, was the basis of all surgical literature and practice, European and Arabian, until the sixteenth century; succeeding writers, though numerous down to the time of Palseologi and the fall of Constantinople, presenting no- thing of sufficient originality or permanent in- fluence to be worth mention. Meanwhile, in the West the disintegration of the Roman Empire and civilisation was proceeding apace. The Arabs who, in the seventh century, inspired by the faith and aspirations of Islam, pushed their conquests westwards along the African shores, did not effect a landing in Spain until a.d. 710 ; nor was it until the following century that their rule and social order were so far consoli- dated as to permit of the cultivation of the arts and sciences, which required as a necessary antecedent condition the conversion of pastoral and predatory nomads into a settled commercial and industrial community. It was, therefore, not until the eighth and ninth centuries that Greek medicine received a renewed vitality and acquired a wider influence by translation into the thoughts and language of the Eastern, and retranslation into those of the Western world. But already, in a.d. 410, Rome had been captured by the Goths, and during the re- mainder of that and the following century, the whole of Italy was repeatedly overrun and ravaged by hordes of northern barbarians who, long aware of their physical, had recently