116 MALARIA ments consisted in feeding mosquitoes of the genus Culex on patients whose blood was known to contain crescent bodies. These mosquitoes were then dissected at serial intervals : many- crescent bodies were found to have undergone exflagellation in the stomach cavity of those mosquitoes, which were examined shortly after haustellation. Ross noticed that this exflagel- lation took place more readily in the mosquito's stomach than in an ordinary fresh blood slide preparation. Mosquitoes that had been kept alive for a longer period after feeding failed to show any further change in the parasite. Feeling convinced that he was working in the right direction, Ross repeated his experiments again and again, but always with the same result. In August 1897, instead of the ordinary mosquito {Culex), he used a difi^erent mosquito of the genus Anopheles, and observed a further stage of development, namely, in the stomach wall, where he found certain pigmented cells lying between the muscular fibres. Ross was unable at the time to follow up this important discovery. His specimens, however, were sub- mitted to Manson, Laveran, Metchnikoff', Thin, and others. These observers were agreed that the pigmented bodies referred to might be of malarial origin. Early in 1898 Ross was transferred to Calcutta, where, in the absence of suitable malarial patients, he studied a certain malaria- like parasite of birds, known as Proteosonia, and succeeded in working out the part of the life-cycle of this organism which is passed in the mosquito. He followed out the various changes which the parasite undergoes in the stomach-wall, and finally traced its sporozoites to the salivary gland of the insect. Next he fed mosquitoes of the genus Culex (Ctilex fatigans) on sparrows, whose blood contained the Froteosoma. The mosquitoes were kept alive for over a week, when their salivary glands were found to contain the sporozoites of the parasite. The infected mosquitoes were then allowed to bite healthy sparrows; in from five to eight days the blood of these latter was examined, with the result that in twenty-two out of twenty-eight unmistakable evidence of infection was discovered. Daniels subsequently confirmed Ross's work on the Froteosoma of birds. It was also con- firmed by the Italian workers, including Grassi and Bignami. These observers, with praise- worthy energy and promptitude, next worked out the details of the mosquito phase of the human malarial parasite. Their work has been most thorough; the malignant, the benign tertian, and quartan parasites have each been dealt with in turn. Koch also has confirmed Ross's work, both as regards avian and human malaria. In September 1898, Grassi and Bignami undertook a series of experiments to prove what the foregoing observations had already indicated, namely, that the malarial parasite passes from man to man by the agency of the mosquito. A man who had never suffered from malaria was successfully inoculated with the disease by means of the bites of laboratory-bred mosquitoes, which had been previously infected by feeding on patients suffering from malaria. After an incubation period the subject of the experiment suffered from an attack of malarial fever, and examination of his blood revealed the presence of the parasite. A similar experiment was recently made by Manson. Mosquitoes fed in Rome on a case of benign tertian malaria were transported to London, where they bit two healthy Englishmen : the latter after a few days developed malarial fever, and tertian parasites were found in their blood. An observation made by MacCallum, in 1897, on the blood of pigeons infected with another intracorpuscular parasite known as Halteridium, requires mention. MacCallum observed that some parasites which had escaped from the red corpuscles as spheres, exflagellated, and that others did not; the former were hyaline in appearance, the latter were granular. He witnessed a flagellum breaking away and be- coming free, and he saw it penetrate and enter one of the granular non-flagellating spheres. This sphere then altered in shape, becoming elongated, and pointed at one extremity and actively motile. These observations have been fully confirmed by others. A similar pheno- menon has since been observed by MacCallum to take place in human malarial blood. The important work of Smith and Kilborne in connection with Texas fever must be mentioned. Their researches (1889 to 1892) prove that cattle become inoculated with this disease by infected ticks {Rhipicephalus aimulatus). This fact is further evidence, if any, indeed, be necessary, that hsemoprotozoal disease may be carried by means of insects. The organism of Texas fever (Pyrosoma higeminum) differs, how- ever, from the malarial parasite, in that it is transmitted by the mother tick to her young, who, in their turn, infect the cattle. In the case of the human malarial parasite all attempts to transmit infection to man by means of the offspring of infected mosquitoes have, so far, failed. The work of Smith and Kilborne has been fully confirmed by Professor Koch in German East Africa, and by Celli and others in Italy. Dionisi has recently differentiated three dis- tinct species of hfemoprotozoal parasites in bats, which resemble very closely the tertian, quartan, and fEstivo-autumnal parasites of man. Koch has also discovered a similar parasite in African monkeys ; the observation has been confirmed by Kossel. Geographical Distribution.—Malaria is a