362 MENTAL DEFICIENCY public elementary school, but is not incapable, by reason of such defect, of receiving benefit from instruction in a certified special class or school." Mental Diseases. »S'ee Insanity, Eti- ology OF; Insanity, Pathology of ; Insanity, Nature and Symptoms ; Insanity, General Treatment op ; Lunacy. See also Adolescent Insanity; Alcoholic Insanity; Chorea {Choreic Insanity) ; Civil Incapacity ; Climacteric In- sanity ; Criminal Responsibility ; Dipsomania ; Epileptic Insanity ; General Paralysis ; Mas- turbation ; Mental Deficiency ; Morphino- mania ; Paranoia ; Puerperium, Pathology {Insanities); Senile Insanity ; Sleep, Normal AND Morbid ; Suicide ; Unconsciousness ; Vice. Mentha.—Mint, ^^ee Menthol ; Pepper- mint ; Pharmacology ; etc. Menthiodol.—A preparation used locally in neuralgia; it contains menthol {q.v.) and iodine. Ment hoform. — A combination of menthol, formaldehyde, and glycerole. Menthol. See also Lichen {Treatment, Menthol Soaj}); Lung, Tuberculosis of (Treat- vient, Menthol); Nose, Local ANiESTHETics.—A crystalline substance in fused masses or colourless needles, obtained by cooling oil of peppermint. It melts at 107'6° F. It is sparingly soluble in water, insoluble in glycerine, soluble 5 in 1 of alcohol, 2 in 1 of ether, 4 in 1 of chloroform, and 1 in 4 of olive oil. It tastes of peppermint, and produces a warm glow of the tongue followed by a feeling of cold on drawing in the breath. Dose — |-2 grs. Preparation — Em- plastrum Menthol. Menthol is employed chiefly for its local ansesthetic properties. Neuralgia may be re- lieved by direct rubbing of a cone of menthol on the skin over the affected nerve, or by painting on a solution in spirit, or by the application of the plaster. It is useful in lumbago, sciatica, and muscular rheumatism in the form of a liniment containing menthol 3, chloroform 4, olive oil 9, or methyl salicylate may take the place of the chloroform. It is antiseptic, and has been tried in the treatment of ringworm of the scalp, but without much success. Menthol relieves itching, and for this purpose it should be dissolved in olive oil. Menthol "snufF," containing menthol 1, boric acid 2, ammonium chloride 3, and lycopodium 6, gives great relief in nasal catarrh. A drop or two of the oily fluid, made by mixing equal parts of phenol and menthol, applied to a carious tooth will often cure toothache. Tuberculous ulcera- tion of the larynx has been treated by menthol 1 in 4 of olive oil painted on directly. In asthma, laryngitis, etc., a vapour produced by the addition of hot water may be inhaled, or a nebuliser, containing Menthol grs. xx., Liquid Paraffin |i., may be employed to form a spray. Pastilles, each containing ^ grain men- thol, are recommended for colds in the head. Internally it was formerly administered as a carminative in the vomiting of pregnancy and in gastralgia, but it is now practically never prescribed for internal use. It is sometimes given as a rectal injection (gr. i. in Si. of olive oil) in the treatment of thread-worms. Mentholin.—A proprietary preparation, said to consist of menthol, boric acid, and coffee (powdered). Menthone. — A ketone, CioH^gO, ob- tained from menthol. Menthophenol.~An antiseptic liquid containing phenol and menthol. MentO-.—In compound words mento- (Lat. meiitum, chin) means relating to the chin ; thus in face presentations in labour, when the chin lies to the front of the mother, the position is called mento-anterior. In anatomy also the term is used in such combinations as mento- hyoid, mento-mastoid, etc. Mentone. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Riviera). Mephitis. — A noxious emanation or poisonous stench; from this word comes the adjective mephitic, meaning offensive or pesti- lential, e.g. mephitic gangrene. Meraig^ia.—Neuralgia affecting the thigh (Gr. fj.-r]p6s, the thigh, aAyos, pain). Meralgria Paraesthetica.—Sensory disturbances (numbness, pain, etc.) in the outer and anterior surfaces of the thigh, due to dis- ease of the external cutaneous nerve; Bernhardt's Parsesthesia. See Nerves, Peripheral {Meralgia Par<jesthetica). Me ran. See Therapeutics, Health Re- sorts {Austria, Tirol). Meranaesthesia.~A morbid condition characterised by partial ansesthesia (Gr. /xept's, a portion). Mercaptan. — A sulphur alcohol or thio-alcohol (CH^SH), a compound resembling alcohol but having sulphur in place of oxygen ; a compound of a mercaptan with an aldehyde constitutes a mercaptal. Mercaptans very readily take up mercury to form compounds, e.g. (C2H5S)2Hg, hence their name (Lat. mer- curium cajyfans). MercaurO.—A proprietary preparation, used as an alterative in syphilis, etc., and said to contain the bromides of gold, arsenic, and