223 MEASLES symptoms of an ordinary cold. Its voice be- comes hoarse, and it is troubled with a frequent irritating cough; it has a running from the nose, and may be heard to sneeze occasionally. The temperature is raised, perhaps to 101°, or more; the skin feels hot; and after a restless night, the child is likely to be worse in the morning. The aspect of a patient at this stage is often very characteristic. The eyes are watery and injected, the face is pale, and a few reddish blotches or spots may often be observed round the mouth and nose, which give to the skin a "measly" appearance; and the child, who persistently avoids the light, in consequence of the photophobia which is present, both looks and feels profoundly miserable. Troublesome diarrhoea is apt to arise at this stage ; the cough becomes more distinctly laryngeal in character, and scattered rhonchi may at the same time be audible in the chest. The coryza, lachrymation, and other catarrhal signs frequently appear to have reached their climax on the second day of illness; after which a marked improvement often sets in, such as to inspire a belief that the affection is coming to an end. The im- provement, however, is not maintained, for on the fourth day—or more commonly during the course of the third night, though sometimes not until the fifth morning—the rash begins to come out, and its development is attended with a fresh rise of temperature and an aggravation of the catarrhal symptoms. After twenty-four to forty-eight hours both the rash and the pyrexia usually come to their full development, and the climax of the attack is reached. This will be on the fifth or sixth day of the disease. Within twenty-four hours of this a rapid fall of temperature occurs, attended with an abatement of the catarrhal condition and a gradual disappearance of the eruption. Should, however, any respiratory complication arise, the temperature will be sustained, and the patient's condition, often aggravated by severe diarrhoea, is then liable to become very serious. Such are the outlines of an ordinary attack. Analysis of Symptoms.—Eruption.—This at an early stage consists of small discrete red spots which may usually be first observed about the roots of the hair, on the forehead and sides of the head and neck, especially behind the ears. It quickly invades the face, neck, and upper part of the chest and arms, from whence it spreads downwards over the trunk and limbs, involving the legs in from twelve to twenty- four hours after its first appearance. As the eruption develops, the individual spots become more raised and larger, and coalescing with neighbouring ones, give rise to irregular raised tracts of vividly-injected skin, the intervening portions remaining pale and unaff'ected. As a result of their confluence, individual papules become grouped together into variously shaped figures, some of vvhich tend to assume a crescentic arrangement, the so-called " measles crescents." In many cases, however, the identification of these crescents calls for a distinct effort of tlae imagination. The rash, which is of a dusky red colour, often with a distinct purplish tint, in most cases reaches its full development at any particular spot in from twenty-four to thirty-six hours; after which it rapidly subsides. It may, therefore, be fading on the face and upper part of the body, while only just fully out on the legs and feet. As a rule, the eruption is well marked on the face, and the circumoral region rarely escapes in- vasion. Though usually represented on the palms and soles by a simple continuous flush, in some cases distinct maculation can be clearly distinguished, especially at an early stage. The eruption fades in the order in which it came, and though the hypersemia is commonly gone within three or four days of its appearance, a brownish mottled staining of the skin remains for several days, occasionally for a week, longer. When the rash has faded, more or less peeling of the skin usually follows. It consists of fine branny scales, and never shows the pin-hole character which is so distinctive of scarlet fever ; it is mainly confined to the face, arms, and legs, but is rarely, if ever, seen on the palms or soles. The desquamation is completed within a fortnight. Catarrh.—Although the respiratory passages are prone to be most seriously affected in a well-developed attack of measles, it is unusual for any of the mucous membranes to fail to show some evidence of catarrh. The conjunctivse are early involved, becoming injected and ferrety ; lachrymation, attended with a sensation of pricking in the eyes and more or less photo- phobia, are usually complained of, and the lachrymation may develop into a definite sero- purulent discharge. The implication of the mucous lining of the nasal passages and frontal sinuses gives rise to a thin nasal discharge, usually accompanied with more or less sneezing and headache, which are commonly present from an early stage. Laryngeal catarrh, prob- ably extending to the trachea and larger bronchial tubes, is responsible for an irritating croupy cough, hoarseness, and partial loss of voice, and in some cases the breathing may be- come distinctly stridulous. The mucous mem- brane of the palate, fauces, and buccal cavity is red and tumid, and occasionally small superficial excoriations may be seen on the inner surface of the cheeks, lips, or gums. In some cases, during the pre-eruptive stage, minute red points or spots can be detected on the palate and buccal surface, especially if the subsequent eruption tends to retain its discrete characters; but in the large majority of cases these spots, if discernible at all, become rapidly merged in the diff"use redness of a catarrhal stomatitis.