LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 39 semination of tubercle throughout the lungs or still more widely. Or there may be secondary involvement of other organs, e.g. the intestine. Unduly low temperature is no less worthy of consideration. It may be associated with grave circulatory depression, as at the downward dip in the intermittent type. It may be significant of shock or collapse, as sometimes in pnevimo- thorax. It may be associated with hsemorrhage. In this latter instance it may be succeeded by a reactionary pyrexia (see Chart IV.). Emanation. — This is a classic symptom (phthisis, consumption). It may be one of the earliest noted. The patient remarks his clothes are too big for him. The loss is not confined to the adipose tissues; it is notably present in relation to muscles. Doubtless all tissues suffer more or less. The loss in fat is especially apparent in young and stout subjects, who lose their natural roundness. The loss in muscle is apparent by the flattening of muscular promi- nences, and flabbiness. The muscles are unduly irritable to direct percussion and are function- ally feebler. Along with the other muscles, the heart tends to get smaller. The emaciation may be irregularly distributed. Thus the limbs or trunk may be especially reduced, while the face remains full. As the patient says, " his face is the best part of him." The process may advance progressively from week to week, till the process of skeletonisation is nearly complete and the patient is almost reduced to skin and bones. The cause of advancing emaciation is doubtless the tuberculous and, perhaps, other toxins. These act (1) by producing anorexia, gastric derangement, and consequent defective nutrition, and (2) by producing pyrexia, with resultant increase of tissue metabolism {cf. the increased discharge in the urine of phosphates, urea, urates). Experimentally, the establishment of an advancing marasmus has been effected by the injection of extracts from tuberculous ex- pectoration and filtered bouillon from cultures of the tubercle bacilli. In addition, as influencing the loss of weight, diarrhoea, sweating, and haemorrhages must be borne in mind. Gain in weight is a most satisfactory indica- tion of improvement. Such increase may take place, while pyrexia continues, when the patient is placed under better hygienic conditions. During rational treatment the gain is frequently phenomenal, amounting to 20-50 lbs. Even more significant than gain in weight is improve- ment in the size and tone of muscles. Ancemia.—The patients tend to be pallid, earthy, or sallow. There is languor and de- bility, and, in women, less or more pronounced amenorrhcea. There is to all appearance a secondary anaemia. It is frequently extreme in relation to the mucous membrane of the palate; but it is often apparent rather than real. Systematic examination of the blood in several hundred cases has not revealed a certain rule. The red blood corpuscles are frequently enough less in number, but in the majority of instances not to a great extent, and they are sometimes actually increased. In qiiite early cases re- duction is oftener observed. The amount of haemoglobin is similarly uncertainly influenced. The mean haemoglobin value is much the same among phthisical as among non-phthisical sub- jects. The anaemic aspect is remarkably re- covered from—it may be in a week or two— when protective methods of treatment are re- placed by the open-air method. In the earlier stages the leucocytes are not increased. Later, more particularly in pyrexial conditions, some degree of leucocytosis is deter- minable. It is especially evident in presence of mixed infection, while contrariwise it seems to be absent in acute dissemination of tubercle. This difference is not without diagnostic value. Tubercle bacilli are seldom discoverable in the blood. Circulatory Disturbance.—Rapidity of pulse is an early and characteristic featui-e. The rapidity is often apart from, and out of pro- portion to, elevation of temperature. Blood pressure is lowered, as is evidenced by the reduced tension of the pulse. With the progress of the disease, the pulse gets softer. The vessels tend to be dilated. From the prognostic point of view, a slow pulse is of good omen. The cardiac force is reduced. The heart gets smaller, save in presence of fibroid phthisis, when the right heart is likely to be enlarged, owing to increase of resistance in the pulmonary circuit. Circulatory disturbance is further manifested by the tendency to rapid change of colour, local flushing, which comes and goes {e.g. malar flush). The peripheral circulation is frequently sluggish. The hands and feet are apt to be cold. On the other hand, actual cyanosis is not, as a rule, conspicuous. The finger-nails, ears, and lips may be bluish, but profound cyanosis is uncommon. The chief cause of the circulatory disturb- ance is the tuberculous toxin, which acts as a circulatory depressant and vaso-dilator. In pyrexic conditions, the direct action of the elevated temperature on the heart muscle must be considered. The pronounced tachycardia present in some cases has been attributed to pressure on the vagus by enlarged and caseating bronchial glands. Some have traced it to pleuro- pericardial inflammation. Progressive Enfeeblement.—With the advance of the disease, the patient becomes physically unfit. This is manifested by an undue sense of tiredness, even after sleep, and disinclination for work. Complaint may be made of weakness of back or limbs, or, again, of intellectual dis- ability. Such symptoms show themselves quite early in the disease. They cannot, therefore,