FORENSIC 259 MEDICINE, of signs of decomposition in a frozen body would indicate this probability, provided the frost had been continuous and uninterrupted since the probable date of death. Death from Asphyxia General Considerations .... 259 ,, Post-mortem Appearances . . 259 Death from Hanging .... 260 „ Strangulation . . .261 Death from Drowning . . . .262 „ Suffocation (Choking, Over- laying) . . . .262 Gases, CO^, CO . . . 263 Asphyxia.—Death from asphyxia occurs when the respiratory function is arrested from any cause. In forensic medicine we have usually in mind those causes which mechanically prevent the access of air to the lungs, as in closure of the respiratory openings by some external obstruction, fluid or solid (drowning, smother- ing), or by some internal obstruction (choking); or again, by external pressure upon the neck or chest (strangulation, fixation of the chest-walls); or lastly, from such a cause as pneumothorax. Asphyxia may, however, result from internal causes apart from such forms of violent death, e.g. certain poisons which paralyse or tetanise the respiratory muscles—Curare, Strychnia— interference with the respiratory centre, directly or reflexly, as in compression of the brain, or by the circulation of certain poisons in the blood; and again, interference with the quantity or quality of the blood-supply to the brain will produce asphyxia, as in cases of htemorrhage, and poisoning by CO2 and CO gases. It follows, therefore, that the post-mortem appearances of death from asphyxia will be found in many other forms of death than those due to violence or which are produced by mechanical means. When the entrance of air into the lungs is prevented, three stages of asphyxia are seen : 1st, A stage of dyspnoea, which comes on in a few seconds, and is characterised by rapid, violent, inspiratory efforts, due to excitation of the respiratory centre in the medulla oblongata, by deficiency of oxygen in the blood; 2nd, A stage of convulsions. Unconsciousness comes on very quickly (generally within a minute) in acute asphyxia, and is accompanied by general clonic convulsions and expiratory efforts. The duration and intensity of this stage depends largely upon individual circumstances, such as age and strength. In weak or exhausted persons, as also in those who are drunk or drugged, convulsions may be only very slight, or even entirely absent. The 3rd stage may be termed that of ex- haustion, and is characterised by a few irregular, weak inspiratory efforts. All these phenomena may occur within the period of two or three minutes in cases where the air is absolutely occluded, or be more protracted in asphyxia less acutely induced. It is important to remember these stages in death from asphyxia, for they help us to explain the variations in the post-mortem appearances which are so frequently met with. It is often a matter of surprise that, in undoubted cases of death by hanging or suffocation, the post- mortem appearances are not well marked, and do not correspond with those which are described in books as characteristic of death from asphyxia. The explanation is to be found in the fact that the intensity and duration of the dyspnoeic and convulsive stages are largely accountable for the presence or absence of characteristic post-mortem appearances. Con- gestion of the lungs, brain, and other organs chiefly arises during the first stage, or that of dyspnoea, with its inspiratory efforts, while petechial ecchymoses on the pleurte, epicardium, and in the connective tissvxes have been shown to be produced during the convulsive stage. Should either of these stages be absent, or present only in a minor degree, then the post- mortem appearances will be modified accordingly. Even such a characteristic post-mortem appear- ance in death from asphyxia as fluidity of the blood may be much modified in cases where the stages have been long drawn out, so that loose coagula are found in the heart in undoubted cases of death from this cause. The post - mortem appearances which are common to all forms of death from asphyxia, but which are subject to modification owing to the reasons above indicated, are: external appearances—slower cooling of the body, well- marked post-mortem lividity, due to the fluidity of the blood and the fact that, as a rule, the quantity of blood in the body has not been re- duced from any cause ; cyanosis of the face and injection of the conjunctivse—this appearance, however, is frequently absent when the body is seen after death, because of the gravitation of the blood to the dependent parts of the body; petechial ecchymoses seen in the conjunctivae, the mucous membranes of the mouth, and some- times on the skin. These vary in size from a pin-point to a lentil seed, and do not disappear as a result of gravitation of the blood. They are due to rupture of capillaries owing to increased blood-pressure, and are caused during the convulsive stage, and hence may be present or absent in cases of asphyxia according to the violence of the convulsions. They do not occur in all cases, even when the asphyxia has been violent and acute, the condition of the capillaries influencing their production, e.g. in the young, aged, or those suffering from disease. Consider- able importance is attached to the presence of such ecchymoses in violent death from asphyxia, but they are not absolutely diagnostic, since they may occur in other forms of death, e.g.