MEDIASTINUM, THE 232 between twenty and thirty years, 13 cases; between thirty and forty years, 5 cases; and above forty years of age, 7 cases. The disease is therefore one which occurs especially in early adult life, and as it runs a chronic course the probability is that many of the cases commenced in childhood. Cases of simple chronic medi- astinitis occur later in life than the two forms of mediastinal inflammation. In 34 of the cases males were affected; in 7, females ; and in 1 case the sex is not mentioned. The predominance of the male sex is therefore very marked. The conditions which have been noted as having preceded the onset of the symptoms are too varied to enable one to say that there is any disease which is particularly liable to be followed by indurative mediastinitis. There is certainly no evidence pointing to any close connection with rheumatism. The absence of signs of endocarditis in these cases would prob- ably suffice to put the rheumatic origin out of court, knowing as we do that in early life rheumatism commonly attacks the endocardium. In a few cases the tuberculous origin of the disease is indubitable, the inflammatory mischief starting in tuberculous mediastinal glands. A septic mediastinitis may possibly be the cause of some cases, but this form of inflammation usually runs an acute course. Traumatism has been suggested as a cause. A history of scarlet fever, measles, and enteric fever is recorded in several of the cases, but without any connecting link to suggest cause and effect. In a similar way hard drinking may be mentioned as a factor. Morbid Anatomy.—At the necropsy the heart may be found healthy, but owing to the in- creased work thrown upon it, from the hamper- ing action of the adherent pericardium, hyper- trophy, followed by degeneration and dilatation, may result. All varieties of changes may be seen in the pleurfe, viz., adhesion to the chest- wall, or to pericardium and chest-wall; pleural effusion is very common. The increase of fibrous tissue and matting together of the con- tents of the mediastinum may cause obstruction to the vense cavae, but especially to the superior vena cava. The liver is usually greatly en- larged and nutmeggy ; this is partly due to the cardiac faihire and partly to the obstruction of the inferior vena cava mentioned above. The condition of the spleen varies; it may be healthy, or congested and enlarged, or it may have a thickened capsule. Chronic inflammation of the peritoneum with ascites is very frequently met ■with in chronic mediastinitis, and the cause has not yet been decided. Heidemann believes that the dropsy is due to the cardiac failure, but that the inflammatory condition of the peritoneum favours the occurrence of ascites, rather than oedema of the so far uninjured con- nective tissue of the lower extremities. The kidneys do not appear to suffer much in this disease; in most cases they are practically healthy, in a few they are congested, and only very exceptionally is there any structural change. Symptoms. — The mode of onset is as variable as the etiology of the disease would lead us to anticipate. In many cases it is so insidious that the initiatory symptoms are frequently over- looked, and it is not until cardiac failure and dilatation occur that the condition is recognised. In other cases there is the history of some acute specific or febrile disease, accompanied with bronchitis or pain in the chest, to direct attention to the mediastinum. It is but rarely that the disease is ushered in with an acute pericarditis. The complex of symptoms suggestive of this disease is the following : duskiness or cyanosis of the cheeks, lips, and tongue; great enlarge- ment, with inspiratory swelling and pulsation of the veins of the neck; swelling of the eyes and oedema of head and upper extremities; ascites with or without general dropsy, the lower limbs being usually but little affected. Paroxysmal cough due to pressure on the bronchi or on the nerves supplying the bronchi, and dyspnoea, sometimes amounting to orthopnoea, frequently occur. The pulse, which is commonly above the normal rate, often presents the character known as the pulsus paradoxus, i.e. a pulse which becomes smaller or disappears during inspiration. This has been noticed occasionally in the arteries of the left arm only. As the result of pressure on the pulmonary veins, oedema of the lungs and bronchial catarrh may result. The pleural cavities are frequently implicated, and pleuritic effusion may mask the original disease. Physical Signs.—On physical examination the area of cardiac dulness will be found greatly increased, especially to the right. In cases coming on acutely, pericardial friction may be detected. G. B. Perez has observed in cases of mediastinal adhesion that on auscultating over the mid-sternum crackling sounds may be heard on elevating the arm, especially the left arm, above the head. The liver is usually found to be greatly en- larged, and, as already mentioned, there is in the majority of cases a considerable amount of ascites. The spleen is generally not enlarged. Albumin is frequently found in the urine, its presence being due to congestion of the kidneys rather than to renal disease. Diagnosis.—If the physician be on the look- out for the disease, well-marked examples of indurative mediastino-pericarditis do not present any insuperable difficulty in diagnosis. That careful and experienced physicians have failed to recognise the conditions is a proof that mistakes are easily made. In one instance the disease was mistaken for cirrhosis of the liver, and in another for a simple case of chronic bronchitis and dilated heart. In children the