MAMMAEY GLAND, DISEASES OF 167 Neoplasms of the Mamma (contd.)— Malignant .... . 190 Sarcoma .... . 190 Carcinoma .... . 192 Etiology .... . 192 General Pathology . 193 Nodular Scirrhus . 19-4 Atrophic Scirrhus . 194 Acute Cancer . 198 Colloid Cancer . . 199 Duct Cancer . 199 Adeno-Carcinoma [Halstead) . 200 Treatment .... . 200 Results .... 2Ud Mortality.... . 206 Contraindications . 207 Inoperable Cancer . 207 Paget's Disease . . 208 Diseases of the Male Breast— Gyncecomastia . 211 See also Axilla (Diseases, Accessory Mammce); Breast ; Chest, Injuries of (Soft Parts); Ectopic Gestation (Symptoms, Mammary Changes); Infant Feeding (Breast Feeding) ; Labour, Post-partum Hemorrhage (Saline In- fusions, Sub-mammary); Menstruation (Nervous and Vascular Symptoms); Milk ; Molar Preg- nancy (Changes in Breasts); Ovaries, Diseases of (Removal of Ovai-ies for Cancer of Breast); Pregnancy, Physiology (Changes in Mammce); Pregnancy, Diagnosis (Changes in Mammce) ; PuERPBRiuM, Physiology (Lactation); Puer- perium. Pathology (Affections of Breasts). Anatomical Considerations The mamma is developmentally, as well as morphologically, more closely allied to the sweat glands than to the sebaceous glands. During the second month of foetal life the first rudiment of the mamma is represented by a down-growth into the mesoblast of a hemispherical clump of proliferated epiblast. At the third month this primary epithelial invasion gives off secondary epithelial columns which become the main lacti- ferous ducts of the future adult gland. The intervening and adjacent mesoblast, instead of becoming fatty tissue, develops into the fibrous stroma of the gland. At birth, more ducts are formed by a process of centrifugal budding from the extremities of the epithelial column, and the nipple becomes developed as an outgrowth of the cutis around the ducts. From birth to puberty the mamma of both sexes shows a corresponding degree of evolution and is repre- sented by a fibrous stroma containing a system of branched tubes, at the extremities of which are solid club-shaped thickenings. In the male the mamma remains throughout life in this imperfectly evoluted condition. In the female at puberty the clavate thicken- ings of the ducts begin to bud out to form the acini, which are collected into lobules. These lobules are at first small, and situated for the most part at the periphery of the gland. There is a corresponding activity in the growth of the stroma, and the size of the organ is still further augmented by the development of fat lobules within it, while the paramammary subcutaneous fat is also increased in amount. The stimulus of conception brings about the complete evolu- tion and functional activity of the gland. New acini are developed, and the number and size of the lobules are so rapidly increased that the gland comes to possess the completely parenchy- matous appearance presented by other glands which are always functionally active. The stroma becomes more succulent as well as more vascular. Pregnancy also, unfortunately, gives a similar impetus to the growth of breast tumours. After lactation, the parenchyma returns to the resting state, many of the acini and lobules disappear altogether, and a con- siderable quantity of fat develops in the stroma. The relative proportion of the three elements of the breast, viz., parenchyma, fibrous stroma, and fat, varies considerably in different indi- viduals. The breast tissue proper consists of a central part, the corpus mammae, and a peripheral part, made up of processes which, as they extend into the paramammary fat, become more and more branched imtil finally they become continuous with the connective tissue septa of the subcu- taneous fatty tissue. The breast, therefore, has no distinct capsule. In the young adult nulli- para, the corpus mammae is compact and well defined, and contains but little intramammary fat, while the peripheral processes are relatively small. In the multipara, the corpus mammse contains more fat and the peripheral processes extend more widely into the paramammary fat. After the menopause, the breast tissue under- goes extensive atrophy, and in the obese it is almost entirely replaced by adipose tissue. It must be remembered, however, that traces of parenchyma, in the shape of atrophied ducts, may still be detected with the microscope in the fibrous strands which remain. The arrangement and extent of the paren- chyma can be investigated by treating the breast with a 5 per cent solution of nitric acid. If slices of the fresh organ be placed in this solution for a few minutes and then washed under running water, the albumin of the epi- thelial cells of the parenchyma is coagulated, and the connective tissue is rendered trans- parent, homogeneous, and somewhat gelatinous. The ultimate lobules of the parenchyma now appear as little (1-2 mm.), dull, opaque, white, seed-like bodies, arranged in grape-like clusters around the termination of the finer branches of the ducts (Figs. 4 and 5). The tooth-like processes which pass from the anterior surface of the corpus mammae are attached to the skin by fibrous prolongations known as the suspensory ligaments of Cooper.