454 MORULA subdivision of the ovum following upon impreg- nation {see FcETus and Ovum, Development of, Segmentation of Ovum); also a disease allied to syphilis or button scurvy (see Venereal Disease, Morula). Morvan'S Disease. See also Joints, Diseases op {Associated -with Lesions of the Ner- vous System); Nails, Affections of the ( Whit- lows) ; Raynaud's Disease {Diagnosis); Syringo- myelia {Morvan's Disease).—This affection is really a type of syringomyelia associated with marked trophic disturbances in the form of painless destructive whitlows. There is much about the disease that is still obscure. Whether the condition of the fingers is entirely dependent on the cord lesions, or whether dependent on a coincident neuritis is still unknown. The clini- cal features, diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment will be discussed under " Syringomyelia." MoSChuS.—Moschus or musk is the dried preputial secretion of the musk deer {Moschus moschiferus); it has a strong odour, and, given internally, in doses of 5 to 10 grains, it acts as a diffusible stimulant. It has been used in the form of a pill in hysteria and in the convales- cence from such prolonged illnesses as typhoid fever; it is a mixture of albuminoid and fatty matters, and contains a volatile substance giving it the characteristic odour. The synthetical com- pound known as " Artificial Musk " is trinitro- tertiary-butyl-toluene, C6HCH3(N02)3C(CH3)3. Mosquitoes. See Malaria {Parasito- logy) ; Myiasis {Mosquitoes)Stinging Insects ; Yellow Fever {Role of the Mosquito). IVIOSS. See Diet (Vegetable Foods, Lichens); Carrageen {Irish Moss); Iceland Moss; In- valid Feeding {Carrageen Jelly). IVIother-Cell. — The cell from which other cells (daughter cells) are produced. iVIother-Liquor. — The liquid remain- ing after the separation by crystallisation of the substances which had been in solution in it. Mottier's IVIark.—A nsevus. See Elec- trolysis {Angioma); Tumours of the Skin {Ncevi). Moths. See Myiasis {Definition). Motions. SeeFMC'Es; Gastro-intestinal Disorders of Infancy {Diarrhoea); MsLiENA; etc. Motor Aphasia. *S'ee Aphasia {Defini- tion). Motor Areas. See Brain, Physiology OF {Functions of the Cerebral Cortex). Motor Cars and Cycles.—Motor cars and cycles, generally using petrol as fuel, are being more and more used by medical practitioners who have long distances to cover in their daily work; they are especially useful for sudden calls and for obstetric work, and in the absence of many breakdowns requiring skilled repairs, are not excessive in cost. Motor Centres. See Brain, Physio- logy OF. Motor Paralysis. See Paiu^lysis. Motor Points. See Electricity {Uses in Medicine). Moulding'. See Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism (Vertex Presentation, Moulding; Face Presentation, Moulding; Brow Cases, Moulding). Moulds. See Air, Examination of {Micro- organisms) ; Enzymes {Diastatic, Aspergillus); Micro-Organisms {Moulds). Moule'S System.—A dry method for the disposal of sewage; the use of earth closets. See Sewage and Drainage {Conservancy System). Mountain Ansemia. See Anemia, Pernicious {Introductory) ; Parasites (Unci- naria Duodenalis) ; Tropics, Unclassed Fevers OF {Kala-Azar). Mountain Fever.—A form of fever described by Osier as occurring in the Western States. The disease is unknown in this country. Recent investigations by Woodruff, Raymond, and others, prove that this condition is really typhoid fever, the blood giving the Widal re- action. For that reason it would be well for the use of the term mountain fever to be dis- continued (Osier). Mountain Sickness.—This is a term that has been applied to the series of pheno- mena that are familiar to, and have been re- corded by experienced mountaineers, especially those who climb to very high altitudes. Though termed mountain sickness, it might also be called balloon sickness, since it also presents itself when high elevations are attained during aerial navigation. The symptoms are qiiick pulse, rapid breathing, and a feeling of constric- tion and incapability for exertion. The increased respiration is accompanied by spasmodic gulps, resembling the gasping of fishes when taken out of water. Conway writes that on the summit of Pioneer Peak, 23,000 feet, "we ceased to pant for breath the moment the need for exertion was withdrawn, and a delicious lassitude and forgetfulness of past labour super- vened upon our overwrought frames." All felt weak—ill, like men just lifted from beds of sickness. Intense headache is a constant symp- tom ; so also is palpitation, which is familiar to all climbers, even at lower levels. At slightly