321 MENINGITIS, TUBERCULOUS AND POSTERIOR BASIC lymph. Tubercles are also frequent on the inferior surface of the frontal lobes, and in the sulci of the anterior part of the median fissure. They are also commonly found on the anterior part of the superior vermiform process of the cerebellum, and sometimes on the velum inter- positum, the choroid flexures, and the ependyma of the lateral ventricles. The fluid in the ventricles is generally more than normal, but hardly in such excess as to constitute hydrocephalus. The corpus callosum and walls of the ventricles are usually much softened or even dilSuent. Tubercles, sometimes with definite meningitis, are frequently present on the membranes of the spinal cord. The writer found tubercle here in fifteen out of twenty-two cases in which the cord was examined. The tuberculous process on the surface of the brain is accompanied in some cases by vascular lesions in the deeper parts, the vessels being obstructed by pressure or by direct invasion of their lumen by the tuberculous deposit which extends along the perivascular sheaths. The resulting thrombosis may cause areas of softening or hsemorrhage in the substance of the brain. Caseous masses in the substance of the brain are also not uncommon ; the writer found them in 18 per cent of cases of tuberculous meningitis. Whilst the above description applies to the majority of cases, it is not very rare, especially in cases where acute miliarj^ tuberculosis is present in the rest of the body, to find only a few scattered tubercles in the meninges, with little or no meningitis, even where meningeal symptoms have been well marked during life. Treatment.—Perhaps the chief dilficulty in the treatment of this disease is to fight against one's half-belief that any treatment is useless. Certainly in face of the several recorded cases of temporary recovery, and some, perhaps, of permanent cure, it is only right that vigorous treatment should be tried in every case. The child should be kept in bed in a quiet, darkened room; an ice-bag or Leiter's coils should be applied to the head, and mercury should be administered freely, either by in- unction as unguentum hydrargyri, of which a drachm may be applied to the abdomen every evening under a flannel binder, with directions that the ointment shall be washed off each morning, or internally as the liquor hydrargyri perchloridi in full doses, according to the age. Potassium iodide given internally in large doses has seemed to do good in some cases. For the relief of headache, if the application of cold fails to relieve it, the use of leeches behind the ears may be tried ; such drugs as phenazone and phenacetin maj' also be useful. For restlessness or convulsions, bromides or chloral should be given. Vomiting seems to be relieved sometimes by cold applications to the back of the head and neck ; an aperient dose of VOL. VI calomel may cause it to cease. Feeding soon becomes difficult in most cases, and nasal feeding must be adopted. Various operative measures have been tried, chiefly with the idea of diminishing intracranial pressure, and thus, perhaps, assisting recovery; removal of cerebro-spinal fluid by lumbar puncture and tapping the lateral ventricles directly through a trephine hole or through the anterior foutanelle are the measures which have been tried most frequently : but beyond some very brief amelioration of symptoms the results have not been encoui'aging. Posterior Basic Meningitis The name posterior basic meningitis has been applied of recent years to a non-tuberculous form of meningitis which occurs chiefly in infants. The name might imply that ana- tomical distribution was the distinguishing feature of this form of meningitis, but, as has been pointed out above, any such method of classification would be highly unsatisfactory; and it is on bacteriological grounds, not on account of any anatomical distribution, that posterior basic meningitis is now recognised as distinct from other forms of meningitis. While, however, this variety can be sharply diff"erentiated from tuberculous and suppurative meningitis, and from the meningeal affections of syphilis, the relation of the posterior basic disease to the so-called cerebro-sj^inal meningitis is not yet accurately determined; it seems probable that these two forms of meningitis, if not identical, are at least extremely closely allied. Etiology.—Age, Sex, Season.—Posterior basic meningitis has its maximum frequency during the first nine months of life. It frequently occurs during the first six months of life, at which age tuberculous meningitis is uncom- mon ; and it becomes much less frequent in the second year, when the tuberculous form has its maximum frequency. Unlike tuberculous and suppurative menin- gitis, the posterior basic disease has a very marked seasonal variation, being most frequent during the cold season—the winter months and early spring. There is no marked difference in the incidence on the sexes. Predisposing and Exciting Causes.—Whether local injury in any way predisposes to this disease is uncertain, but there is frequently a history of some fall or blow on the head pre- ceding the onset of the disease; and it seems possible that here, as in other forms of menin- gitis, a temporary lowering of resistance to the invasion of bacteria may result from the injury. The exciting cause of posterior basic menin- gitis is a diplococcus, which can be sharply differentiated from the pneumococcus, but dif- fers only in very slight points from the diplo- coccus intracellularis of epidemic cerebro-spiual meningitis. 21