FORENSIC 248 MEDICINE, air inasmuch as it takes place more slowly owing to bacteria being more or less excluded from the body, and practically it may be said that the changes take place twice as slowly as in air. Of course if a body is only partially immersed or is floating on the surface, putre- faction will advance more rapidly. It has been generally observed that putre- faction in the drowned appears first, and advances most rapidly, in the neck and face, and it is a frequent occurrence for bodies to be recovered from water with nearly the whole of the soft parts of the face and exposed hands and feet destroyed, while the trunk and limbs which are covered by clothes may present an almost perfectly fresh appearance. This is accounted for partly by the early onset of putrefaction in the face and neck, and also by the action of rats, fish, etc., from the latter of which causes the clothing affords an effectual protection. However slight the putrefaction may appear to be when a body is recovered from water, it must be remembered that on subsequent exposure to the air, putrefactive changes take place with great rapidity, and hence it is im- portant to secure identification of the body as soon as possible. A change which is sometimes found in bodies which have been lying in water or moist soil is the transformation of the soft parts into a waxy or cheese-like substance called adipocere. The whole body or portions of it may be so trans- formed, the parts retaining their original shape and form. It is a very permanent substance, has little or no smell, and requires, in this climate at any rate, a considerable time (six weeks to six months) to form. (See also "Adipocere," vol. i. p. 55.) Mummification.-—-Instead of a body under- going the usual colliquative decomposition, it may, when exposed to a dry atmosphere, mummify or desiccate. The body dries and shrivels up, and when the process is completed, it tends to crumble to a fine dust. There is little or no smell during the process, which in this country seldom occurs except in the case of the bodies of infants. Effect of Ptitrefaction on Injuries.—One of the first effects of putrefaction in the body is to cause a transudation and imbibition into surrounding tissues of the blood-colouring matter and serum from the vessels ; and hence with the advance of putrefaction all the organs and tissues present a uniformly diffused pink or reddish coloration, and in the serous cavities, e.g. pericardium, pleurae, abdomen, a quantity of blood-stained fluid is found. In extravasated blood the same process of transudation and imbibition takes place, and thus bruises may appear to increase in size and become more distinct after death. In the stomach putrefactive changes {i.e. transudation and imbibition of the blood-colour- ing matter, and transformation of hjemoglobin into methsemoglobin and hgematin) give rise very frequently to appearances and discolora- tions which are liable to be mistaken for the effects of poisoning. The uniformity and diffuseness of the discoloration, absence of capillary injection, and of injury to the mucous membrane will generally indicate the nature of the appearance in such cases. In injuries where there has been division or destruction of tissues, evidence of the injury, and its nature, may remain even in advanced stages of putrefaction, although it will be impossible to decide whether it was produced during life or after death. During recent years a study has been made of the insects which attack bodies after death, or, as M^gnin calls it, the Fauna of the Cadaver. Brouardel testifies to the good results which have accrued in several cases from a study of these insects, whereby a close approximation to the actual date of death was obtained long after its occurrence. Different kinds of insects are attracted to the body by products formed at successive stages of putrefaction, and hence by a knowledge of this fact and of entomology it is possible with considerable accuracy to estimate the period of time which coincides with the presence of various insects and larvae found among the remains. Wounds and Injuries General Considerations . . . .248 Causes of Death ..... 249 Accident, Suicide, or Murder . . . 250 Ante- and Post-moi^tem Wounds . . 251 General Considerations. — The term wound in a legal sense includes any form of injury caused by violence, the words of the statute referring to this subject being, " Whosoever shall by any means whatsoever wound or cause grievous bodily harm to a person." Thus not only are wounds, surgically so called, viz. incised, contused, punctured, and lacerated wounds, included in the meaning of the statute, but also bruises without injury to the skin, concussions, fractures, ruptures of internal organs, burns and injuries produced by fire- arms. It is also not necessary that any weapon should be employed in order to produce wound- ing, the words of the statute being "by any means whatsoever." The use of a weapon in an assault, especially one well known to be capable of inflicting serious injviry, such as a knife or fire - arm, is un- doubtedly regarded as an aggravation, since it indicates more or less intent to do serious injury; but proof of the use of a special weapon is not necessary in chai-ges of assault, the result of the violence, however caused, and the intent regulating as a rule the gravity of the offence. In giving evidence in cases of wounding or