MID- menstruations; Mittelschmerz. See Gyne- cology, Diagnosis in {Menstruation); Men- struation AND ITS Disorders {Dysmenoi^rhoea, Intermenstrual Pain). Midwifery. See Ablactation; Abor- tion ; Accidental Hemorrhage ; Accouchement Force ; Accoucheur ; Acrania ; Afterbirth ; After-Pains ; Agalactia ; Agnathy ; Ambu- lant ; Amnion ; Amputations, Intra-uterine ; Anesthesia {Ether in Obstetrics); Anen- cephalus ; Anideus ; Antenatal Pathology ; Aprosopus ; Asphyxia {Neiv-born Children); Assimilation - Pelvis ; Axis-Traction ; Bag; Ballottement ; Bandl's Ring ; Basilysis ; Basio- tribe ; Binder ; Bipolar Version ; Birth ; Blastula ; Bossi's Dilator ; Breech ; Broad Ligament ; Brow Cases ; Buist's Method ; Cesarean Section ; Calliper - Compasses ; Canalisation ; Caput Succedaneum ; Cebo- cephalus ; Cephalhematoma ; Cephalotomy ; Cbphalotripsy ; Cervix Uteri ; Childbed ; Chorion ; Cleidotomy ; Coffin-Birth ; Colos- trum ; Concealment of Birth ; Conjugate; Convulsions ; Cord ; Corpore Conduplicato ; Crede Method ; Cross - Birth ; Crotchet ; Curettage ; Cyclopia ; Cyllosomus ; Decapita- tion ; Decidua ; Decollator ; Delivery ; Denman's Spontaneous Evolution ; Dermatitis Exfoliativa Neonatorum ; Detachment of Placenta ; Dicephalus ; Diprosopus ; Dry Labour ; Dystocia ; Ecbolics ; Eclampsia ; Ectopic Gestation ; Edocephalus ; Embryo ; Embryology ; Embryulcia ; Epignathus ; Episi- ORRHAPHY; Episiotomy ; Ergot ; Eugenics ; EUTOCIA ; EXENCEPHALUS ; ExOMPHALOS ; FaL- LOPiAN Tubes ; Flat Pelvis ; Fcetus and Ovum ; Fontanelles ; Forceps ; Funis ; Galac- TAGOGUE; Gastroschisis ; Gemelli Coaliti ; Generation, Female Organs of ; Germinal Pathology; Gestation; Hematometra; "Har- lequin Fcetus " ; Head-Locking ; Hebotomy ; Hemicephaly ; Hemipagus ; Hermaphroditism ; Heteropagus ; Hook ; Hydatid Mole ; Hydro- cephalus ; Hydrorrhcea ; Hyperemesis ; Hy- POGNATHUS; Hysterectomy ; Hysterotomy ; Induction of Labour ; Infant Feeding ; Ini- bncephaly ; Inversion ; Involution ; Ischio- PAGUs; Jacquemier's Test; Janiceps; Justo- MAJOR AND JUSTO-MINOR PeLVIS ; LaBIA ; Labour, Physiology ; Labour, Pathology ; Labour, Operations ; Lactation ; Lahs' Theory ; Laparotomy ; Lecanopagus; Lie ; Lingering Labour ; Liquor Amnii ; Lochia ; " Longings " ; Lying-in ; Lysol ; Maieutics ; Malacosteon ; Malposition ; Mammary Gland ; Management; Mania, Puerperal; Maternal Impressions ; Maternity ; Mechanism ; Me- conium ; Medicine, Forensic {Pregnancy, etc.); Meningocele ; Menopause ; Menstruation ; Mermaid Fcetus; Metacyesis ; Midwives ; Milk ; Molar Pregnancy ; New-born Infant, Dis- eases ; Nubility ; Obstetrics ; Osteomalacia ; PAIN 403 Ovaries ; Parovarium ; Parturition ; Passages ; "Passenger"; Pelvis; Perineum; Phenomena; Phlegmasia ; Pica ; Placenta ; Plural Preg- nancy ; PoRRo's Operation ; Position ; Post- Maturity; Postpartum Hemorrhage; "Powers"; " Prague Grasp "; Precipitate Labour ; Preg- nancy, Physiology ; Pregnancy, Pathology ; Pregnancy, Intra-uterine Diseases of the Fcetus ; Prematurity ; Presentations ; Pre- ternatural ; Prolapsus Funis ; Pseudocyesis ; Puberty ; Pubiotomy ; Puerperium, Physio- logy ; Puerperium, Pathology ; Quickening ; " Restitution " ; Retention ; Rigidity ; Robert Pelvis ; Roederer ; Satchel, Obstetric ; Sclerema Neonatorum ; Sepsis ; Smellie Grasp ; Spina Bifida ; Spondylotomy ; Still-Birth ; Subinvolution ; Superfcetation ; Symphysio- tomy ; Synclitism ; Syncytium ; Teratology ; Third Stage Hemorrhage ; Tractor ; Trans- verse Presentations ; Triplets ; Twins ; Um- bilical Cord ; Uterus ; Vagina ; Vectis ; Version ; Vertex Presentations ; Vulva ; Walcher's Position ; Wet-Nursing ; " White Leg." Midwives. Derivation and Definition . . . 403 Historical Sketch .... 404 Legislation ...... 404 Midwives Act of 1902 .... 406 Central Midwives Board . . . 407 Conditions of Certification . . . 407 Regulation, Restriction, and Super- vision OF Practice of Midwives . 408 Midwife and her Appliances . . 408 Duties to Patient and Child . . 409 Regulations as to calling in of a Medical Practitioner . . .410 Notifications by Midwives . . .411 Penal Clauses and Results of Act . 412 Derivation and Definition.—The etymology of the word midwife is not clearly ascertaineci. Probably mid has the meaning of the preposi- tion with, and the word therefore signifies anyone (male or female) who is with, the woman {wyf) at the time of her confinement; if this be so, then the word has its analogies in the German beifmu and the Spanish co-madre. But it is possible that mid has an adjectival meaning and that midivife, therefore, indicates " a woman by whose means the delivery is effected." But even if the word originally did not necessarily imply that the midwife was a woman, it soon came to be used only in the sense of a female accoucheur, a woman who assisted other women at their labours; for when men began occasionally to practise mid- wifery the name man-midwife was coined to express the ofiice. The word "accoucheuse" is comparatively modern. From midwife, of course, comes midwifery, the art of helping women in their labours, or obstetrics. The latter term is derived from the Latin obstetrix.