MILIARIA 414 Dr. Martin, formerly of Calcutta, prickly heat is not always accompanied by an eruption. The symptoms tend to subside when the individual is cool and sits quiet, but as soon as he takes exercise or drinks any stimulating fluid the eruption becomes elevated and the distressing sensations return. Pathology.—The morbid anatomy of Suda- mina, or M. crystallina, has been investigated by Haight, Robinson, and Torbk. There is a general agreement that the vesicles are essen- tially sweat vesicles directly connected with the sudoriferous duct, and developing ivithin the horny layer of the skin. PoUitzer does not distinguish between M. rubra and prickly heat, using the two names synonymously. But a close examination of his histological report on "Prickly Heat" furnishes reliable evidence of the incorrectness of this view. Pollitzer's report is based on the microscopic examination of pieces of skin taken from eight persons, all of whom presented eruptions associated with profuse sweating. But this author states that neither clinically nor histologically could he find any evidence of the existence of the in- flammatory papule. We may conclude from this that the sweat eruptions which form the groundwork of his histological examination were not examples of prickly heat, since it is universally recognised that the small pointed papule is the most characteristic lesion of this affection. Pollitzer's cases were probably ex- amples of miliaria rubra, and his report is valuable as affording some histological grounds for separating M. rubra from prickly heat. The essential changes in M. rubra were found by this observer to consist in cyst-like expan- sions of the sweat-ducts beginning in the horny layer, and situated one below the other through- out the whole thickness of the rete. This cystic formation was found unaccompanied by any signs of inflammation, but the horny layer was oedematous and nucleated. The character of the contents of these cysts varied with their ages, being wholly fluid in those of recent origin, while the older ones were packed with epithelia and round cells and nuclei. The most frequent situation of these cysts was just above the stratum granulosum. Their anatomical con- nection with the sweat-ducts was proved to the satisfaction of the author. The pathology of M. rubra is still further complicated by Torok's investigations. According to this author and Unna, the vesicles of M. rubra have no con- nection with sweat-ducts, but develop in the deep layer of the stratum corneum. Torok found evidence of circumscribed papillary inflammation, and therefore concluded that the vesicles were purely inflammatory and not sweat-cysts. The truth probably lies midway between these two opinions—namely, that while the vesicles of M. rubra may be retentive sweat- cysts, they are in some instances, where external irritation has supervened, of inflammatory origin and unconnected with the sweat-ducts. Etiology. — The cause of the retention of sweat in sudamina is probably a collapse of the horn structure at the orifices of the sweat- pores during the height of the fever. In M. rubra the hindrance to the dispersion of sweat is supposed by Pollitzer to be due to the imbibition of sweat by the horny layer, and the consequent swelling and blocking up of the mouths of the sweat-ducts. This, however, is a doubtful explanation, for, as Unna points out, sweat-cysts do not develop in cases of maximum swelling of the stratum corneum by water and alkalies as met with in washerwomen. The eruption in prickly heat is clearly attribut- able to the irritation of clothes, when the amount of sweat passing through the skin is greater than can be readily dispersed by evaporation. Treatment.—Sudamina calls for no treat- ment. In M. rubra it is necessary to keep the skin cool and to apply some astringent such as calamine or lead lotion. In prickly heat the most rational procedure is to reduce the excessive perspiration by keeping as cool as possible, avoiding active exertion during the hottest period of the day, and in clothing the body in cool raiment. Linen garments should be avoided, and especially when starched. Diet should be light and non-stimulating. Accord- ing to Dr. Martin, the cold bath only aggravates the complaint by increasing the cutaneous circulation. Warm alkaline baths are recom- mended by some, while cool saline drinks are useful on account of their diuretic action. Locally, a cool drying lotion or ointment will usually give relief. Miliciry. — Resembling a millet seed in appearance and size; e.g. a miliary aneurysm {see Alcoholism, Pathology; Brain, Affections OF Blood-Vessels, Cerebral Hcemorrha^e, Etio- logy), or miliary tuberculosis {see Lung, Tubercu- losis, Clinical Varieties; Peritoneum, Tuber- culous Peritonitis, Varieties; Tuberculosis, Lesions of Various Organs and Tissues). MiliUin.—A cutaneous affection in which there are small pearly elevations, seen mostly on the face; the elevations or milia are due to the presence of retained sebum in the sebaceous glands. See Eyelids, Affections of {Milium and Cysts); Tumours of the Skin {Benign, Colloid-Milium). Milk. I. Industrial— The Farm, The Dairy, Feeding, etc. 415 II. Physiological— Types of Milks, Humanising, etc. . 417 III. Dietetic— Fresh, Condensed, Sterilised, Pep- tonised . . . • .418