359 MENTAL DEFICIENCY regards bulk and as regards gyral development, have been noted by Spitzka, Mills, and others, and in one case, which fell under the notice of the present writer, small and slender con- volutions (niicrogyric), more or less curling, were found to exist markedly in the frontal region of the left hemisphere. But it is prob- ably in the nerve-cells themselves, rather than in the arrangement of convolutions, that the essential abnormalities reside; and structural peculiarities akin to those described by Bevan Lewis in the epileptic brain, such as inflated spheroidal cells, with deficiency of protoplasmic processes, may be looked for in these cases of nervous instability. II. Developmental Group. — (a) Amaurotic Cases.—In these the essential change is one of degeneration of the pyramidal cells of the cortex, most marked in the convolutions other than the superior frontal and middle tem- pero-sphenoidal. There is considerable optic atrophy, and the retina at the yellow spot is slightly detached from the choroid. (6) In eclampsic cases the pathological lesions usually met with are, localised hsemorrhagic products and thickened adherent membranes interfering with normal nutrition of the con- volutions. (c) In epileptic cases the cerebral changes consist, according to Bevan Lewis, of hardening of the neuroglia fibre-cells, diffuse or focal, with gradually advancing destruction of the nerve- cells. " Cells from the brains of epileptic imbeciles of adult age (twenty and over) often show in considerable areas a development of neurons or nerve-cells not greater than that of a healthy child between the ages of three and five." Vacuolation of the cortical cell- nuclei had also been observed by this authority and by Andriezen. Echeverria sums up the morbid conditions as consisting of diminution of the cortical substance and of the nervous elements, with exuberant genesis of connective tissue undergoing retrograde metamorphosis. {d) Syphilitic cases terminating in juvenile dementia and paresis — the juvenile general paralysis of Clouston and other writers—present characteristic atrophic changes in the convolu- tions, most marked in the frontal and central portions of the brain. In a case reported by the present writer in the American Journal of Insanity for 1888, the brain weighed only 44 ounces, the frontal convolutions were exceed- ingly small, and there were signs of endoarteritis. Recently Mott has studied the pathology of thirty cases of juvenile general paralysis, and in 80 per cent there were undoubted signs or history of congenital syphilis, and in the remaining 20 per cent it could not be excluded. Degenerative changes in the nerve-cell due to inherent defects in the germinal plasm of the parents are assigned by him as the origin of the mental symptoms. III. Passing to accidental or acquired cases we first consider the pathology of— (a) Traumatic cases, the most interesting group of which is that of birth palsies. The most common cause is (according to Freud, M'Nutt, and others) meningeal haemorrhage spreading to the great longitudinal fissure, and pressing upon the upper edges of both hemispheres, leading to atrophic cortical changes. Depending on their extent, spastic rigidity, paraplegia, or cerebral diplegia are produced. In cases resulting from falls on the head, concussion, compression, and meningeal ha3mor- rhage may be combined as primary causes with degenerative secondary changes. Collier, how- ever, in a recent paper in Brain ^ has maintained that the initial degeneration of the pyramidal cells of the cortex is the essential lesion in infantile cerebral palsies, contending that the importance of birth injuries, and meningeal hsemorrhage, as causal factors in the produc- tion of diplegia, has been over-estimated. He judiciously remarks that "every degree of mental impairment is met with in these cases from slight mental dulness to complete amentia," the degree of mental defect not always corre- sponding to the severity and rigidity of the paralysis, and depending upon the greater or less affection of the prfefrontal lobes. (6) Post-febrile or Inflammatory Casus.—In these cases are found thickened membranes and inflammatory products pressing upon the convolutions, and so checking their develop- ment, or interfering with the nutrition of the nerve-cells. Sometimes also there is thickening of the cranium with premature ossification of the sutures. Cullerre and Bernadini have observed increase in neuroglia, fatty and pig- mentary degeneration of nerve - cells, and atrophy of their processes, with diminution in number of ganglion and pyramidal cells. In hypertrophic cases of idiocy Rokitansky and others have held the view that increase of neuroglia, with fatty and pigmentary de- generation of the nerve-cells and atrophy of their processes, are the characteristic lesions— at any rate of the later stages of the disease. The brain is heavy. Dr. Beach has recorded a case in which it weighed 62 ounces. Amongst the microscopical changes found in the brains of idiots many have incidentally been mentioned under the different types. We may, however, sum up the abnormalities by saying that the brain-cells are usually rounded or pear - shaped and deficient in processes. Often the nucleus has retracted protoplasm about it with granular matter ex- ternally. Hammarberg, whose histological re- searches upon the brains of mentally defective children are the most complete series we possess, demonstrates that there is a definite relation between the number of the pyramidal and ' Brain, vol. xxii. p. 373, etc.