508 MYIASIS ordered action of the physiological processes of the bee.i Treatment in a mild case consists in carefully pushing out the sting so as not to squeeze the poison bag, and the immediate application of a weak solution of alkali, such as ammonia, soda, or lime. The application of some antiseptic, such as carbolic lotion, or formic aldehyde, or perman- ganate of potash, is desirable, both as a means of breaking up the poison and as a preventive of septic sequelae. In more severe cases very free stimulation is indicated, strychnine in large doses, and ether, hypodermically ; alcohol by the mouth freely; hypodermic injections of carbolic acid and permanganate of potash and cocaine locally. Tracheotomy may be necessary for oedema glottidis, especially if the sting be in the tongue or throat. Cases of poisoning by wild honey have been reported in i^merica and India. In one instance the lives of many persons were endangered, and two deaths actually occurred. The honey was subsequently found to be strongly impregnated with gelsemium. Jlosquitoes, Gnats, Gadflies, Household Insects, etc.—These insects have recently acquired a new importance in consequence of their relation to malaria. Mosquitoes are sometimes imported into this country in ships' cargoes and personal bag- gage, and may be met with in London hotels frequented by American travellers. Dr. Thin (Laricet, 2/81/398) reports two severe cases of mosquito bite in London. In one instance the appearance of the face in consequence of the bites was like confluent smallpox. In our own country and on the Continent, mosquitoes, gnats, gadflies, and many other species are sufficiently annoying, both by reason of their bites and stings and by their irritation when present in great numbers. In tropical countries and in the Arctic, travellers are subjected to great misery from the attacks of a thousand species of Diptera. Septic poisoning with more or less severe sequelfE has resulted from the bite of flies, as well as from the stings above mentioned. Very recently {Lancet, February 9, 1901) a probably unique case was published, where a swelling developed on the forearm at the site of the bite or sting of a "green fly." Five months later the indurated swelling was removed, and was shown by microscopical examination to be a typical epithelioma of the skin. When gnats or flies become numerous and troublesome in our houses, we can sometimes mitigate the nuisance by attacking their breed- ing-places—in the case of gnats, by cleaning ^ Calmette found that the poison of an individual snake varies in its activity, and is more virulent when the creature fasts. neglected cisterns or water-barrels, by intro- ducing fish into ponds, or pouring kerosene on the surface of collections of stagnant water; in the case of flies, by covering up or removing heaps of stable dung. Toads also may be found useful in this connection. In the open air, nets form the most useful protection against mosquitoes, and complete immunity from bites can be ensured by their use. Faiite de mieux, nets with a mesh of one centimetre, will be found useful; and open doors and windows may to a large extent be safeguarded with a mesh of even larger size, provided the light enters from this side of the room only. Various substances applied to the exposed parts of the skin will ward off' insects, even in Canadian, Norwegian, Arctic, etc. waters, where insect pests are innumerable and maddening, and these, though unpleasant, are gladly employed. The most trustworthy are:—Carbolic acid (best in solution in oil, 1-10 or 15, as it is of use only while some parts of the acid remains unevaporated by the heat of the skin, necessi- tating renewal at frequent intervals); paraffin, 3j. to Oij. (this is irritating to some skins when much used); clove oil or cinnamon oil, 5SS. to spermaceti ointment, gj.; cocoa-nut oil. These are all disagreeable prophylactics, but have been found preferable to the alternative plague of flies. A. weak infusion of Quassia chips (made in the cold) is said to be equally efficient, and would certainly be less unpleasant. Treatment.—Eau de Cologne, carbolic lotion, and formic aldehyde (formalin and formal, etc.) applied to the bite or sting are the best-known remedies, but common soap well rubbed in for a few minutes, followed by a stream of cold water, is a handy resource which will generally give great relief. Septic cellulitis may follow wounds caused by any insect. The bite of Cantharis (the Spanish fly) may be followed by blistering. Conjunctivitis and great irritation of respiratory passages may occur in the presence of a number of the living insects. Spiders in this country are not known to be hurtful to man by reason of the poison they secrete. The poisonous effects of tarantula bites have been enormously exaggerated. We have the authority of Gautier {Les Toxines), however, for stating that the malignant spidei'S of Elba, Corsica, Cura9oa, Madagascar, Venezuela, Russia, etc. can kill large animals and man. New Zealand possesses a poisonous spider which causes marked toxic effects, but a fatal result seldom if ever occurs. The symptoms and treatment are much the same as in the case of wasp and bee stings. Cases of septic infection and tetanus through