MACROCORNEA 111 MacrOCOrnea. — Keratoglobus. See Cornea {Conical Co7-nea). IVIacrOCyte.—An abnormally large red blood corpuscle, met with in certain forms of anaemia and particularly in the pernicious variety; it usually measures 10 ju, in diameter but may reach as much as 20 /x; the condition of the blood when these macrocytes or megalo- cytes are present is called macrocytosis or macro- cythaemia. Macrodactyly. — Hypertrophy, gener- Macromastia or Macromazia. — Abnormal enlargement of the mammary gland. ally congenital, of one or more of the digits; it is a localised variety of macrosomia. Macrogamete.—A female sexual cell in the Sporozoa ; a stage in the evolution of the malaria parasite. MacrOg-ametOCyte. — A non flagel- lating granular sphere containing a macroga- mete. See Malaria {Parasitology). MacrOglOSSia. — Enlargement of the tongue, usually congenital, sometimes but rarely unilateral, and generally of the nature of a lymphangioma ; it may he treated surgically by the removal of a V-shaped portion. See Cheek, Fissure of {Associated Malformations); Cret- inism ; Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology {Dilatation of Lymphatics); Tongue {Malformations). Macrognathism. — Excessive size or protrusion of the jaws (Gr. ym^os, a jaw). Macromelia. of a limb. Abnormal enlargement Macronychia.—Excessive size of the nails. Macrophages. — Large lymphocytes, constituting a variety of phagocyte believed to have a solely haemolytic function. Macro podia. — Excessive size of the feet, a form of localised macrosomia. MacroprOSOpuS.—A foetus with abnormal enlargement of the face (Gr. TTpocrunrov, the face). Macropsia.—A disturbance of vision in which objects appear too large ; mega- lopsia or macropia. See Choroid, Diseases OF {Plastic Choroiditis, Symptoms); Hys- teria. MaCrOSCelia.—A malformation in which there is excessive development of the legs (Gr. cTKeAos, the leg). Macroscopic. — Large enough to be seen without the help of the microscope ; gross. Macrosomia. — Abnormal enlarge- ment of the whole body, congenital or de- veloping after birth ; giantism. Macrostoma or Macro- StOinla. — Abnormal largeness of the mouth, due sometimes to a congenital fissure at one or both of its angles. See Cheek, Fissure of ; Palate {Congenital Malfor- mations of the Mouth, Macrostoma). Macrotia.—Excessive size of the ears. Macula.—A spot or stain, or patch of pigmentation; a blemish. Macula Lutea.—The yellow spot of the retina, the centre of vision. See Brain, Physiology op {Cranial Nerves, Optic); Eye- ball, Injuries of {Haab's Macidar Disease) ; Ocular Muscles, Affections of {Nystagmus, Causes); Physiology, Nervous System {Cere- brum, Visual Centre). Macula Materna. "mother's mark." nsevus or Maculae Caeruleae.—Purple or slate coloured spots seen on the skin in cases of pediculosis, phtheiriasis, etc. See Pediculosis {Pediculosis pubis, Taches ombrees).