150 MALARIA will cause the disappearance of the gamete cells from the blood. Koch and others have observed that it is the children in a community who are the chief source of danger. Blood examinations of native children in malarious districts should therefore be undertaken and quinine administered sys- tematically ; at first free of cost, but as soon as the natives learn to appreciate its value they can be made to pay for it. When natives once grasp the fact that mosquitoes cause malaria, some of them will no doubt co-operate with the Europeans in attempts made to exterminate these insects. Ma.la.rin.—An antipyretic preparation; acetophenonephenetidin citrate. Malassez' Disease. —Cystic disease of the testicle. See Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of (Tumours, General Cystic Disease). Mai ass i m i B at i O n.—Defective assimi- lation, as seen in wasting diseases. Male.—One of the male sex ; belonging to the sex which performs the function of begetting in reproduction. In the description of instru- ments, male blade or male screw indicates the blade or pin which fits into or is received into the other one (named the female). Male Fern, See Filix Mas. Malformation.—A structural anomaly or abnormal development of a part or organ of the body ; it is commonly used to indicate minor anomalies in contradistinction to major or gross anomalies which are termed monstrosities or terata. See Teratology ; Labour, Precipi- tate and Prolonged {Pelvic Deforinities) ; Nose, Diseases of Nasal Orifice and Septum {Malformations of Septum); Uterus, Malfor- mations OF the ; ETC. Malg^aig'ne's Hernia.—An infantile hernia; one due to persistence of the vaginal process of peritoneimi. Malg^aig^ne'S Hooks.—An instru- ment for holding the fragments of a fractured patella in apposition, now hardly ever used. See Knee-Joint, Injuries of {Patella, Fracture, Treatment). Malic Acid. —An acid (C^HpOg) ob- tained from unripe apples (Lat. malum, an apple), currants, grapes, and other fruit; it forms salts (malates) such as calcium malate and potassium malate. It can be made artifi- cially by acting on bromosuccinic acid with moist silver oxide, hydroxyl replacing the bromine; and, indeed, malic acid is really hydroxysuccinic acid, C2H3(OH)(COOH),,. Malignancy. —The state of being malignant, fatal to life, or cancerous. See Malignant. Malignant Disease.—Markedly virulent or almost always fatal to life ; cancerous or sarcomatous in relation to tumours ; the car- cinomata and sarcomata are termed malignant growths, and have the characters of rapid growth, return after removal, and metastasis to distant organs. See also Adrenal Glands (Other Diseases, Tumcnirs) ; Anemia {Causes); Anthrax ; Appendix Vermiformis {Cancerous Disease) ; Bladder, Injuries and Diseases of (2\imours, Carcinoma) ; Bone, Diseases of (7V 7nours, Sarcoma) ; Cachexia {Cancerous) ; Chlo- rosis (Diagnosis); Choroid, Diseases of {Sar- coma); Cicatrices {Malignant Diseases of); Conjunctiva, Diseases of (Tumours); Fallopian Tubes (Cancer, Sarcoma); Fragilitas Ossium (Causes); Gall-Bladder and Bile-Ducts, Dis- eases OF {Tumours); Gangrene (Infective) ; Heart, Affections of Myocardium and Endo- cardium {Malignant Endocarditis); Intestines, Diseases of (Malignant Disease); Iris and Ciliary Bodies {Timiours); Kidney, Surgical Affections op {Tumours); Larynx, Malignant Diseases of ; Liver, Diseases of (Malignant Disease); Liver, Diseases of (Weil's Disease, Malignant Jaundice) ; Malaria (Malignant Ma- larial Fever); Malignant Pustule ; Mammary Gland, Diseases of (Neoplasms, Malignant); Mediastinum (Growths, Malignant); Mouth, Diseases of the (Epithelioma of the Lips, Cheeks, Gums; Tumours of the Jaw); Muscles, Diseases of (JVeiv Growths in Muscle); Nerves, Peri- pheral {Tumours); Nose, Diseases of Nasal Orifices and Septum (Alalignant Growths of Nasal Fossae); Oesophagus (Growths, Malig- nant) ; Orbit, Diseases of {Tumours); Ovaries, Diseases of (Tumours, Sarcoma and Carci- noma) ; Palate {Tumours, Malignant) ; Pan- creas, Diseases of (Malignant); Parotid Gland, Disorders op {Tumours); Penis, Surgical Affections of {Neiv Growths); Peritoneum (Malignant Disease); Pregnancy, Haemorrhage (From Tumo%brs, Malignant) ; Prostate Gland (Tumo^vrs, Malignxint); Vvrpura (Symptomatic, Cachectic); Purpura (Werlhof's Purpura); Radium ; Rectum, Diseases of the {Cancer); Retina and Optic Nerve {Tumours of Optic Nerve) ; Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases op {Epithelioma of Scrotum, Sarcoma and Carci- noma of Testis); Smallpox (Clinical Variations, Malignant Type); Spinal Cord, Medical {New Grotvths); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of (Symptomatology and Treatment of Cancer); Stomach, Surgical Affections op (Cancer); Syphilis (Tertiary, Malignant); Thymus Gland (Diseases, Tumours) ; Thyroid Gland, Medical (Malignant Disease) ; Thyroid Gland, Surgery of (Malignant Disease); Tongue (Carcijioma); Tongue (Sarcoma); Tumours (Connective Tissue Type, EpiiheliaV); Tumours, Inoperable, Treat-