MEDICINE, FORENSIC 251 careful observer in such matters may be of the utmost importance, and the duty should not be relegated to a police officer. The position of a body may be inconsistent with a supposed accident or with suicide ; thus, for example, when it is found with severe con- tusions and fractures upon it, in a place where there was no possibility of a fall or similar cause producing them. The position of a weapon in regard to a body may be of great significance : if found firmly grasped in the hand, this is evidence very strongly presumptive of suicide; while in all cases of suicide where the wound is a mortal one, causing immediate collapse or un- consciousness, it is essential that the weapon should be found close to the body. The weapon must also be compared with the wound, and the point determined whether it was capable of causing the injuries and bears traces of having been used, e.g. presence of blood-stains, foreign particles, hairs, etc. Marks of blood upon the deceased should be consistent with the character of the wound, and its situation on the body, while blood-stains on surrounding objects must be regarded from the standpoint of whether they could have been produced by the deceased after infliction of the injuries upon himself. Signs of a struggle strongly suggest homicide, and they are usually apparent, not only in the room or surroundings, but also upon the person of the deceased. It must be noted that they do not generally consist of serious injuries, but often of slighter marks of violence—scratches, superficial abrasions and bruises; and in the case of assaults with sharp cutting instruments, the hands and fingers will frequently be found cut from attempts to ward off the weapon. At the same time we must remember that suicides frequently employ two or more different methods to accomplish the act, and inflict a variety of injuries upon themselves. Poxver of Locomotion and Volition after Wounds and Injuries.—This is a question for considera- tion in cases of doubtful suicide, where, from marks of blood, etc., there has evidently been movement of the body after the receipt of severe injury. Great care must be exercised in giving an opinion, as numerous cases are on record in which, after injuries of the brain and loss of brain matter, after extensive wounds of the heart, and after suicide by cut throat with division of the large vessels of the neck, the person has been able to walk some distance and to perform voluntary acts, such as the infliction of further injuries on himself, etc. Distinction betiveen Wounds caused during Life and those produced after Death.—Injuries may be produced on a body after death accidentally in a variety of ways, and unless their true character is recognised they may lead to erroneous opinions in regard to the cause of death. Thus forcible movement of parts of the body fixed by rigor mortis may easily produce ruptures of muscles, e.g. the platysma, biceps, etc. Abrasion of the cuticle after death will cause the portion of the skin thus denuded to dry up and become of a brown colour and parchment-like consistence, on superficial ex- amination not dissimilar from an abrasion pro- duced during life. It is possible also by rough handling of a body to produce bruises, contu- sions, and fractures, although as a general nile a greater amount of force is required to produce such injuries after death than during life. Of course it is also possible that stabs, cuts, and other injuries may be produced after death. The great difference between all ante- and post-mortem injuries is to be found in the amount of blood effused. The characteristics of a wound produced during life are :—1. Bleeding more or less copious. 2. Coagulation of the effused blood. 3. Suffusion of the edges of the injured tissues with blood. 4. More or less swelling. 5. Retraction of divided skin and muscles. In a wound produced several hours after death there may be some bleeding, but it is due to physical causes—the action of gravity—and never partakes of the character of hsemorrhage occurring during life while the action of the heart continues. It is always comparatively small in amount, and can only occur so long as the blood is fluid. Thus post-mortem bruises are never of large size, and, except immediately after death, will not occur at all unless on dependent parts of the body. Further, there will be no injection or suffusion of the edges of the wound, for the reason above indicated. There is no swelling—any blood which has escaped does not coagulate, or only very loosely, and there will be no retraction of the edges of the skin or muscles, unless such retraction happens to be produced by mechanical causes, such as the effect of pressure, position of the limbs, etc. The greatest difficulty will arise when a dis- tinction has to be made between wounds caused immediately prior to death and those inflicted shortly afterwards. In both cases the condition of the tissues is to all intents and purposes the same, and the appearances very similar; there- fore, all that can be safely affirmed in such cases is, that the injuries were produced either immediately before or shortly after death. Various Kinds op Wounds oe Injuries Abrasions are injuries of the cuticle or super- ficial layer of the skin. They are frequently associated with bruises or contusions, and may be caused by very slight violence ; but, on the other hand, there may be no abrasion of the cuticle at the places where blows of great force and violence have been delivered, as is often most strikingly seen in persons who have been run over by vehicles or have fallen from a height. Recent abrasions have a moist surface and show