FORENSIC 258 MEDICINE, In superficial burns of slight degree causing merely an erythema of the skin, the red blush seen during life tends to disappear after death owing to hypostasis; and if death has occurred rapidly, there may be considerable difficulty in recognising the nature of the injury, post-mortem. In burns of a greater degree of severity, as, for example, where blisters are produced, or the true skin is burnt, there is no difiiculty, since such burns, caused during life, are always accom- panied with more or less injection of the capil- laries (hyperaemia), which remains permanent after death. A blister resulting from a burn produced during life contains a fluid rich in albumin ; the base of the blister is injected, and it is surrounded with a well-marked border-line of hyperaemia. Heat applied to a dead body may caiise a blister, which, however, contains only air, or exceptionally, some fluid, while the tissues at the base and surrounding it are perfectly pale. In burns in which the true skin is wholly or partially destroyed during life, there is usually a line of deep injection at the edge of the burn, whereas in post-mortem burns this appear- ance is absent. In cases where the tissues are charred, signs of vital reaction may still be evident, but, on the other hand, they may have been destroyed by the continued action of the flame. Injuries caused hy Lightning.—These may consist of localised burns, ecchymoses, lacera- tions and fractures in various parts of the body, and the skin frequently shows erythematous markings, forming an arborescent pattern. The diagnosis of death or injury by lightning will usually be determined from the circumstances and surroundings of the body; from the presence of burns on the body and clothing, the fusing of any metal such as a watch-chain, and from the fact that the clothes of the person are often torn and even stripped from the body in the most extraordinary manner. Sometimes, however, there are no signs of injury, or any indication of how death has occurred. There are no characteristic internal post-mortem appearances. Recovery may take place after lightning stroke, the person showing various nervous symptoms, paralyses, etc., which sooner or later pass off. Electric currents of high tension may cause serious injury or death. The local effects con- sist of burns at the parts which come in contact with the conductor. There are diff"erent views as to the mode in which death is caused, whether by paralysis of the heart or by arrest of respira- tion. The post-mortem appearances are not characteristic, although generally the blood is fluid and other signs of death from asphyxia are present (see also "Electricity," vol. iii. p. 56). The treatment of such a case must consist in at once freeing the person from the wire, with due personal precautions, and then in endeavour- ing to resuscitate by means of artificial respira- tion, venesection, and general measures for promoting the action of the heart and lungs. Death from Starvation.—Criminal charges of starvation occur most frequently in the case of young children, and the condition is generally accompanied with other well-marked evidence of general neglect (see also "Atrophy, Infantile," vol. i. p. 324). Post-mortem.—The condition is characterised by great emaciation (although in acute starva- tion death may ensue before emaciation becomes marked), with almost total absence of sub- cutaneous fat; atrophy or disappearance of the thymus gland; marked atrophy of the spleen. Organs such as the liver, heart, and kidneys may show little or no loss of weight. The stomach and intestines are contracted and empty, or contain only a little bilious fluid. The ivalls of the intestine become atrophied and transparent. The bladder contains little or no urine. There is an appearance of general and advanced anaemia. The difficulty of securing a conviction in charges of starvation arises from the fact that death is more frequently due to an insufficiency of suitable food rather than to an absolute deprivation, while, on the other hand, it must be borne in mind that great emaciation and other signs of death from starvation result from many forms of disease, more especially tuberculosis, diarrhoea, dysentery, cancer, and certain diseases of the nervous system. In all cases, therefore, we must carefully note the character of any contents of the intestines —the presence of some old hard feecal masses is not inconsistent with death from starvation; and more particularly evidence of the existence of any disease sufficient to account for the condition and death of the patient must be looked for. Death from Cold and Exposure.—There are no characteristic post-mortem appearances of this cause of death. We can only attribute death to cold and exposure after a consideration of the circumstances under which the body has been found, and in the absence of any other injury or condition sufficient to account for death. At the same time it must be remembered that death from cold and exposure is especially liable to result in states of great fatigue and of ex- haustion from want of nourishment, while in persons who are suffering from great shock to the nervous system, as, for example, after attempts to ravish, or violent assaults, exposure to cold not infrequently results in death. Persons lying exposed while under the influence of drink are easily aff'ected by low temperatures. The mere fact of a body being found frozen does not necessarily indicate that death was due to exposure to cold. The person may have been killed, or died from other causes, and the body have become frozen subsequently. The presence