LUNACY 10 is it in excess of that warranted by the growth of population 1 Another which suggests itself is —Does this increase betoken a greater liability to insanity in the community now than formerly, or can it be explained on other grounds, such as certification in recent years overtaking those excluded in former years when ideas and con- ceptions, not only of the medical practitioner, but of the public, as to what constituted lunacy were more restricted? If that be the explana- tion, as well as that other urged, viz., a greater readiness in all classes of society to hand over to the care of others the mentally broken-down in their immediate circle, and thereby to place them on official registers, it would mean not only a wider portal, but a declinature on the part of the affluent and well-to-do, in obedience to conditions in not a few instances readily under- stood and appreciated, to care for the insane in family, and on the part of the vast majority not in the category referred to, to seek and accept public relief in whole or in part. How far this is a possible and probable explanation remains to be seen. A number of other questions, sub- sidiary in their nature, arise in connection with the main one stated. If there be an increase, in which sex, in what occupations, at what age periods, and in what form or forms of mental disorders does it manifest itself? So far, the answers have been given vmder these headings. But to answer these questions more fully neces- sitates a consideration of economic causes and others, such as adverse circumstances, worry and stress, intemperance, syphilis, influenza, bodily disease, old age, and the toxines of metabolism and diseases which chiefly influence its production. Investigators who have looked into the matter with care fully realise how the problem is beset with difficulties. Seven years ago the public alarm at the increase revealed year after year was such that special reports prepared by the lunacy executives of the three countries were prepared and submitted to Parliament, all in agreement that there was no cause for uneasi- ness ; and that while there was no greater liability to insanity in the community, there was a statistical increase in excess of what the population justified, which could be explained by the process of accumulation as opposed to any real increase in the admissions to the registers of fresh and occurring cases of insanity, by economic conditions, by the effect of grants- in-aid, and by asylum attractions. Such reports furnished by officials in the best position to know, in possession of the fullest knowledge available, and representing the continuity of lunacy administration went far, and justly so, to reassure the public mind. But the increases in excess of population went on, and in spite of the official imprimatur in annual reports to the Lord Chancellors and to the Secretary for Scotland, to the effect that there was no real increase of insanity, there were controversialists of eminence who disputed this and put forward all kinds of statistics, theories, general impressions, and speculations in support of their contention, notably that suicides and nervous diseases were likewise increasing. If the latter contention could be established, these observers would hold a position of vantage. With regard to the alleged increase in nervous diseases there are no figures to prove this.^ But there is a presumption in favour of this view, and that it is caused by increasing com- petition, and a greater struggle not only for existence, but by the ambitions for the acquisi- tion of wealth and what it brings. There is reason for thinking, however, that many of the functional insanities, such as hypochoudria, hysteria, neurasthenia, mild melancholia, in predisposed persons are determined by toxic agents from without and from within, the toxines of various infective and non-infective diseases, such as malaria, influenza, syphilis, rheumatism, and the toxines created by disorders of metabolism, toxines absorbed from the gastro- intestinal canal (auto-intoxication and auto-infec- tion), which formerly were considered nervous diseases and nothing more, now rank as cases of lunacy. But if deaths from all nervous diseases in Scotland in the last two decenniads be a test of any value, the contenders that insanity is going up by leaps and bounds will not find much com- fort. Taking the average deaths in Scotland for all nervous diseases for the past two decenniads the increase between the first and second for all Scotland, mostly among females, was 6'1 per cent; for the principal towns, 5"3 per cent; for the large towns with 11 per cent of the popula- tion, 19 per cent; and for the insular rural districts, with 3"1 per cent of the population, and 1 '7 per cent of all deaths from diseases of the nervous system, 20 per cent. In the small towns and mainland rural districts there has been no increase whatever in the deaths. As- suming the population increment to be 10 per cent, there is nothing in those figures to support the views of the alarmist—rather the reverse. As to suicides, it is difficult to write with any degree of satisfaction in regard to those in Scot- land, where there are no public inquests as in England, the figures being vitiated by the fact that many genuine cases of suicide in the populous centres from drowning, poisoning, and even violence are put down to accidents. A fairly reliable record of lunacy is that given in the census returns, and those of the present year are awaited with considerable interest. But in dependence upon the returns for 1881 and * The insanities of alcohol and of general paralysis of the insane are increasing both in England and Scotland. The consumption of nervine specifics and hypnotics has enormously increased in recent years, and the present large number of "homes for exhausted nerves" is ominous.