494 MUSK Musk. /See MoscHus. MuSSelSi See Snake-Bites and Poison- ous Fishes {Fish); Toxicology (Fish). MuSSita.tion>—Silent movements of the lips occurring as a sign of some diseases. Musta—Grape juice, freshly expressed and unfermented. Mustard. See also Dermatitis Trau- matica BT Venenateo (Vegetable Agents); Pharmacology ; etc.—Sinapis is a mixture of powdered black and white mustard seeds (from Brassica nigra and Brassica alba). The power- ful volatile oil is developed on the addition of water by the action of an enzyme, myrosin. From the oil is prepared Linimentum Sinapis. Charta Sinapis, mustard leaf, is prepared from the powdered seeds by extracting the fixed oil with benzol, mixing the residue with Liquor Caoutchouc, and spreading on cartridge paper. Externally, mustard is used as a counter- irritant in a large variety of conditions, either as a poultice (1 part of mustard to 16 of linseed meal), or in the form of the Charta or Liniment. A mustard bath is often employed in the treat- ment of chills or febrile conditions, especially in children (about 15 oz. to every 15 gallons of hot water). Internally, mustard is a good and easily obtained emetic. About one table-spoon- ful in half a pint of hot water should be given in cases of poisoning. Thiosinamin is prepared by warmimg oil of mustard with alcoholic solution of ammonia. It is soluble in water, alcohol, ether, and glycerine. Given by hypodermic injection in doses of 10-15 m. of a 10 per cent solution it is said to cause absorption of scar tissue, and has been reported to give good results in keloid, in cicatricial stenosis of pylorus, in hour-glass stomach, in simple stricture of OBsophagus, in parametritis, and in scleroderma. Mut£lCism.—A tendency, in speaking, to use the m sound (Gr. ft., mu) too often and also in place of other sounds. Mutase.—A proteid food-stuff, used in diseases of the stomach and intestine; it is made from leguminous plants. Mutilation.—The production of de- formity or inefficiency by the removal of parts, such as fingers, ears, limbs, and even internal organs. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms (Insane Defects of Inhibition, Mutilation Im- pulses). Mutism.—Dumbness. See Deapmutism ; Aphasia ; etc. Mutualism. See Commensalism ; Symbiosis. Myalg'ia. — Muscular pain or muscular rheumatism. See Muscles, Diseases op {Myalgia); see also Chest-Wall, Afpections OP {Pain in the Chest, Myalgia); Gout {Ir- regular, Muscular Tissues); Hydropathy {In Subacute and Chronic Diseases); Massage ; Rheumatism. Myasthenia.—Muscular weakness. Myasthenia Gravis. Definition/ ...... 494 History J . . . . . .495 Etiology 495 Symptoms ...... 495 Pathological Anatomy .... 496 Pathology 497 Diagnosis and Prognosis . . . .498 Treatment ...... 499 Synonyms. — Asthenic bulbar palsy, Bulbar paralyse ohne anatomischen Befund, Myas- thenische paralyse. Myasthenia gravis pseudo- paralytica, Malattia di Erb, Erb-Goldflam symptom complex, Hoppe-Goldflamsche Krank- heit, AUgemeine schwere Myasthenic, Asthenic motrice bulbo-spinale.^ Definition.—A disease which is characterised by muscular weakness and by the facility and rapidity with which the muscles become ex- hausted, as the result both of voluntary and faradic stimulation. Some or all of the voluntary muscles may be affected. The muscular weakness varies in degree and is unassociated with atrophy. The onset of the disease is usually, though not always, insidious. Although, as a rule, the disease shows a tendency to pursue a progressive course, remarkable variations in the intensity of the symptoms are apt to occur from time to time. A large proportion of the recorded cases have ended fatally, a sudden attack of asphyxia having frequently been the cause of death. No changes have been discovered, post mortem, to account for the symptoms. No specific treat- ment is known for the disease, though palliative measures are valuable. In the most recent editions of English text- books no mention is made of myasthenia gravis, or at most a few lines are allotted to its descrip- tion. Although imdoubtedly a rare disease, it seems certain that myasthenia gravis occurs more frequently than is commonly supposed; its extreme rarity is probably more apparent than real, and due to the fact that many cases ' A nomenclature which classes this disease with the various forms of bulbar palsy is to be avoided, since it is apt to give a quite erroneous conception of the nature of the disease. Myasthenia gravis is not a bulbar affection, but a general disease of the voluntary motor apparatus ; although it is true that many of its most striking symptoms are undoubtedly bulbar, it is rare to meet with a case in which the muscles of the extremities and trunk escape. Further, in exceptional instances, in the early stages of the disease at least, the limbs alone may be affected.