LUNACY 4 appropriate to the case to be dealt with pre- scribed by statute, which results in the depriva- tion of liberty, and of the control of one's aifairs to a greater or less extent. Legal intervention has the effect of putting the individual into the category of the four or five in every thousand of the population who live out of harmony with others, and with their surroundings. The portals to lunacy have in recent years, in a large measure due to the study of French alienists,! been so widened as to admit "de- generates," sufferers from epilepsy, senility, organic brain disease, and likewise from the vesanias or functional insanities such as the hypochondriacal, the hysterical, the climacteric, alcoholic, saturnine, syphilitic, influenzal, etc.— in short, that large class whose mental balance is upset by toxines from without, and from within owing to a deranged metabolism. The degenerate and functional list is also supposed to include moral imbeciles, the cranks and eccentrics of society, the ill-balanced {dese- quilibres), sexual perverts of advanced years with prostates enlarged and function so altered as to suggest auto-intoxication, neurasthenics, dipsomaniacs, kleptomaniacs, and that numer- ous class with various obsession propensities.^ Mental states such as are implied by these terms show the insuperable difficulty of attempt- ing to define with anything like certainty what is lunacy and what is nervous disease. The mere mention of such a list indicates that the alliance between the typical cases of lunacy and persons with these defects is a closer one than that of " great wits " and madness. Not only are persons in the mental states implied techni- cally of unsound mind, but there is nothing in the statutes to bar their admission to official registers and to public relief and treatment in institutions and in private dwellings. But it should be made plain that the spirit of the law never contemplated the registration or lodgment in asylums of aged persons whose mental decline or disorder is simply the decay inci- dental to old age and not the efl:ect of a morbid state of the body. If it were practicable it would be desirable to define more precisely the dividing line between insanity and senility. Common-sense exercised by all concerned in the registration of the insane and uninfluenced by grants-in-aid, and the desire on the part of relatives to undertake moral responsibilities, should go a long way to bring about a proper attitude towards such cases. Among the poorer 1 Brouardel, Magnan, Motet, Ballet, Regis, Toulouse, Fabret, etc. ^ Dr. John Macpherson, Commissioner in Lunacy, in his work on Mental Affections points out, and in this most observers will be disposed to agree witli him, how insanity under newer conceptions is correlated with other diathesic conditions and placed on the sure foundation of physical disease, and that it is "a degeneration which extends from mere disorders of metabolism up to the most profound nervous and physical abnormalities." classes of society such an attitude may not be expedient in cases where senility, with or with- out hemiplegia, aphasia, etc., is complicated by manifestations of conduct, etc., which make it difficult to care for such properly in an ordinary household. Such cases are fitted for a public hospital, a workhouse hospital, or a hospital for incurables. And there is no valid reason why the register of lunacy is only open to those as well as to unmistakable cases of insanity. With truer conceptions of psychology, ethics, and social pathology, there is no reason why in the coming years the incorrigible tramp suffering from the cacoethes amhulandi or what German writers call Vagalmndenwahnsinn, whose mode of life is a puzzle to ordinary observers, and to the officials in workhouse and "dosser" houses who at times have him under observation, and suggests to the normal man one of great discomfort and misery, should not find his place in the ranks of the large army of degeneracy, and thereby of lunacy. But a life of ennui, footsoreness, and discomfort no more disturb him than the grime on his skin, and the pediculi and acari which thrive undisturbed. Then there is the inveterate prostitute, to whom the psychological tape has not yet been applied, the inveterate rearer of illegitimate children, of whom there are generations who are not in the true sense bad or immoral, but who are lacking in resistive power, and do not seem greatly if at all distressed by repeated breaches of the moral law, and by the burdens imposed upon herself and the parish authorities; and the borderland cases in which the conduct of individuals is so troublesome as to cause great annoyance and apprehension in their homes while the mental warp is not of such a nature as to justify removal to an institution. One may form some idea of the possible and quali- fying entrants to already swollen lunacy registers by a slight reflection in regard to the psycho-pathological products to be met with in society. It is coming to this that every individual who lives out of harmony with his surroundings and the conditions of life settled and accepted by the vast majority of society is in danger of, or in the happy prospect of, just as it may be viewed, certification. It will now be apparent, having regard to the universal relativity of things, why anything like an exact definition of lunacy even for legal purposes is impossible.! The relativity of right and wrong, the fact that what may be wrong under certain circum- stances may be right under others, the question of the fas et nefas of the ages, and the inability to establish any universal standard of right and wrong, which have baffled the wisest, are pre- sumed to have been solved by paranoiacs ^ who 1 " Legal Aspects of Insanity," see Green's Encyc. of Scots Law, vols. vii. and viii. '■^ Paranoiacs were formerly termed monomaniacs.