21 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS districts by reason of special conditions of life (p. 24). It is a disease of all ages. It occurs more frequently in young children and old persons tlaan is apparently sometimes supposed. No age is exempt from its ravages. It is a disease of all countries and climates. Its dis- tribution is coterminous with the limits of civilisation. It is in fact an expression of civili- sation, or rather, let us say, of a partial, mis- informed civilisation. There is no latitude or altitude in which its voice is not heard, pro- vided mankind is present in sufficient numbers and under unhygienic conditions of life. Other things being equal, pulmonary tuberculosis is less common in a sparse population. With increasing density of population it becomes more frequent. Regarding the explanation of this we shall have something further to say under the head of etiology. Historical It is of much interest and value to trace briefly the gradual evolution of thought regard- ing pulmonary tuberculosis, from the purely clinical conception, through the various stages of anatomical and pathological investigation, to the etiological definition of to-day. The exact- ness of the last stands in remarkable contrast to the vagueness of half a century ago. Pulmonary tuberculosis has been recognised clinically from the earliest times. But its pathological relationships were not defined till the passing century, and its etiology in greatest measure was determined scarcely twenty years ago. Hippocrates discussed the disease under the term phthisis, which has become classic. Like the corresponding Latin derivative " con- sumption," the name has not much scientific significance and is gradually being dropped. Nevertheless the more conspicuous clinical phenomena of the disease were well known to Hippocrates and Celsus. It was not until dis- sections were made that the term tubercle came into vogue. Used at first in a morphological sense to describe small, rounded new growths of varying size, the term has gradually assumed more and more pathological definition. Much discussion has ensued as to the limits of its meaning. The anatomists and physicians of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries made use of the name tubercle with varying descriptive explanations (ganglia, granulations, etc.) which may seem confusing. The important fact re- mains, however, that those observers, while differing in respect of their descriptions, recog- nised the kind of lesion present in the disease. We shall see presently that the infective nature of these new growths or granulomata was not unsuspected by some of them. At the close of the eighteenth century a more exact description was offered by Baillie, who emphasised the significance of the individual tubercle and pointed out that the larger crude masses were due to a collection of small tubercles. He showed that the centre of the larger masses tended to break down by suppura- tion, and this in turn produced phthisis. It is, however, to Bayle that is due the credit of elaborating the conception of the miliary tubercle and its gradual passage from a state of firm consistence to caseation and softening. Unfortunately, while contributing much to the elucidation of the pathology, Bayle continued the existing clinical confusion by admitting six groups of phthisis: 1. tuberculous phthisis ; 2. granulous phthisis; 3. phthisis with melan- osis ; 4. ulcerous phthisis; 5. calculous phthisis ; 6; cancerous phthisis. It remained for Laennec to indicate the unity of the tuberculous process in the lungs, and its essential dependence, in all its phases, on the presence of tuberculous deposits. For him tuberculosis and phthisis were identical pro- cesses and the terms interchangeable. His views were shared and elaborated by Louis. It gradually came to be recognised that phthisis and scrofulous manifestations, wherever these may be found, are pathologically alike. In spite of this, misleading conceptions of pul- monary tuberculosis as primarily an in- flammatory affection were prevalent till quite recently. Virchow defined tubercle more ex- actly, and pointed out that caseation was a process not confined to tubercle, and further, that while tubercle tended to caseate, it might calcify or might be absorbed and so the disease be healed. Virchow instituted a distinction between tuberculous phthisis and caseous pneumonia which later facts have not quite justified. Thereafter investigation and discussion occu- pied themselves largely with the intimate structure of tubercle and the origin and significance of the giant cell. But in 1865 fresh light was thrown on the whole subject by the results of Villemin's experiments. Villemin showed by inoculation that tuberculosis was a specific, inoculable, and virulent affection. In appraising these remarkable observations it is right to recall the fact that the infectious nature of tuberculosis was suspected, if not definitely recognised, by some of the earlier physicians and anatomists. Thus Morgagni, Morton, van Swieten, Valsalva, and others evinced their belief practically by great un- willingness to undertake the autopsy on tuber- culous cadavera. Morgagni states definitely that he had scarcely dissected a single body of the kind. Nor was the conception confined to the scientific mind. In Naples—and to less degree in some parts of France, Spain, and Portugal—stringent regulations existed a century ago with reference to the isolation of tuberculous subjects and the disinfection of their dwellings and effects. Notification was enjoined on physicians by law, with a penalty