LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 23 The further steps in the production of a so- called giant cell are involved in some doubt. It seems most likely that the structure known as the giant cell is produced by an increase of single epithelioid cells. Proliferation of the nucleus occurs, without division of the proto- plasm, so that one such cell may come to contain many oval nuclei. Such cells, often provided with numerous processes, may be studied at all periods of development, with a varying number of nuclei. The second manifestation of local activity is due to the toxic influence of the bacilli on the cell elements. This is best observed in the centre of a tuberculous focus, where the distinctive outline and character of the cells is lost, and fusion takes place more or less definitely. With a continuance of the process, the resulting homo- geneous mass becomes more and more granular. This process of cell necrosis passes on to caseation. Both are to be interpreted as result- ing from the local toxic activity of products of the bacilli. When necrosis and caseation, and resulting disintegration, proceed more rapidly, the more delicate histological changes —more especially giant-cell formation — may be hardly traceable. In such cases they must be sought towards the outlying peripheral portion. When the necrotic process is slower, giant-cell formation is more easily traced. The variation in manifestation depends on the munber, distribution, and activity of the bacilli, and, doubtless, on the degree of resistance offered by the tissue elements. In proportion to the extent of their successful invasion, the functional activity of the lung is compromised. The work of disintegration is hastened by the presence of other organisms (mixed infection). The general or more distant changes result in one of two ways. Either the bacilli them- selves are carried to other parts, or their products, received into the circulation, exert their toxic influence more widely. The bacilli may be carried to other parts per vias naturales, as in swallowing of sputum, when the intestine may become invaded. Similarly the larynx, trachea, or other portion of the respiratory apparatus may become affected by direct contact of bacillus-containing discharge. Or the bacilli may invade the vessels, and be swept along in the blood-stream, and so be carried to distant parts (cf. Meningeal Tubercu- losis, Acute Miliary Tuberculosis, etc). Such involvements may take place in a variety of organs from actual transference of bacilli. On the other hand, systemic effects of the gravest sort result from the absorption into the circulation of the toxic products of the bacilli. Among such effects must be reckoned the progressive enfeeblement and emaciation, pyrexia, circulatory prejudice, which tend towards death. Eminently toxic products, which act especially on the circulation, and determine a gradual marasmus, have been separated from tuberculous expectoration. The significance of these has been emphasised by the subsequent elaboration of tuberculin from pure cultures of the tubercle bacillus. Further observations in respect of dead tubercle bacilli have shown that their bodies contain certain substances which act locally, so as to produce proliferation of tissue elements and even disintegrative changes, and constitutionally, so as to produce progressive marasmus and emaciation. Chajinels of Infection.—So far as the lung is concerned, the great channel of infection is inhalation. Tubercle bacilli from sputum and other discharges retain their virulence for long, even when dried, if not exposed to direct sun- light. By way of inhalation such bacilli obtain lodgment in some recess of the respiratory organs. Lodgment is effected more easily under certain conditions to be considered presently. In other cases the lungs are reached less directly. Another organ may be attacked first, e.g. one or other gland. From this organ the bacilli may pass either more slowly by way of lymph channels, or more rapidly by way of blood-vessels, to the lung. In the latter case an acute miliary eruption may result. Inges- tion and direct inoculation through the skin are of less significance, so far as pulmonary tuberculosis is concerned. Following either method of introduction, a secondary lung infection may be established. As compared with inhalation, however, these methods are of small account. Means of Propagation.—The infecting bacilli are in the great majority of cases obtained from the discharges of a consumptive patient. The sputum dries and disintegrates into fine particles, which are in course carried as dust, and deposited here and there. Such infective dust is especially likely to be found in apart- ments in which tuberculous patients live, or to which they have frequent access. The likelihood is greater in proportion as the persons are dirty or even careless in respect of the disposition of discharges. It is greater in dark, low-lying, airless, and sunless apart- ments than elsewhere. It must be kept in view that any apartment may become infected. There is abundant experimental evidence for the statement, that many infected houses and institutions exist in all large communities. Experimental observation has determined that our public conveyances are frequently infected, and there can be no doubt that personal clothing and other fomites are similarly con- taminated. The leading factor in the pro- duction of this undesirable state of matters is ignorance and carelessness regarding necessary precautions in the disposition of expectoration and other discharges. Apart from the dis- charges, the disease is not contagious.