MYIASIS 505 at first are, as a rule, vague. There is loss of appetite, discomfort, headache, fainting, vertigo —perhaps a feeling of anxiety or oppression, or other nervous manifestation, e.g. reflex cough. After this " incubation " stage the complaint is aggravated. There is colic, nausea, and curious "suckings," "pinchings," or "throbbing" in the abdomen, with constipation or diarrhoea. Pain may become very violent, occurring in crises, situated often in the left side or epigas- trium. Epilepsy may occur, or hjematemesis. The onset of severe symptoms may be very rapid—" like a blow"—accompanied occasionally by rigors and fever. Relief comes suddenly and is effected by vomiting or by evacuation at stool, and the patient is rid of the parasites at the moment or in the course of a few days. The presumption is that this crisis is precipitated by the arrival of the larvse at the full stage of their growth and development, and by the irritation they cause hy their active movements and bristly appendages. But though for the time the relief is immediate —and in acute cases permanent—in rare in- stances the symptoms may recur and the disease appear to take on a chronic character, although «very possibility of reinfection has been ex- cluded ; the larvae continue to be voided at regular or irregular intervals from stomach or intestine, each time with an interval of quiescence, a development of similar symptoms and a conclusion by violent ejection. It cannot be said that death has occurred in consequence of myiasis intestinalis. Of two instances re- ported as resulting fatally, the first is given with too scanty detail to enable us to judge the relation of the myiasis to the fatal result, and the second has been misquoted owing to an error in Hope's tables, which located the larvae in the " stomach" instead of in the "skin." Death in this case was due to cutaneous, not to intestinal myiasis. That " chronic " myiasis may cause death in a weakly subject is, however, by no means improbable. Myiasis is not frequently met with in the British Isles, but is not uncommon on the Continent and in America. This may be due to our less frequent use of uncooked foods, our greater freedom from swarms of flies, and our more temperate summers. But cases un- doubtedly occur unrecognised or unrecorded, and the publication of any one of these is usually followed by a small series of reports by observers whose attention has thus been directed to the subject. Little consideration is required to convince one that the eggs, if not the larvae, of insects {notably those of flies) find their way into the human stomach in thousands of cases. For apart from eating uncooked or tainted foods, the ordinary precaution of covering cold meat with wire netting may be defeated by the blue- bottle fly, which will drop its eggs through the meshes. Further, many races eat insects and their larvae as delicacies, and even in this country, school children have been found who habitually eat cockroaches. ^ It is equally certain that in most cases these eggs and larvae, though exceedingly tenacious of life,^ are destroyed in the digestive juices, and the dead eggs of the bluebottle are often found in the faeces. But we are unable to solve the question why in some cases, and not in all, do these eggs and larvae continue to live and develop after finding their way into the stomach. Experiments go to show that mere immersion in water for days will not always kill dipterous larvae, and when introduced into the stomach of frogs and guinea- pigs they will live in a small percentage of cases for twelve to seventy-two hours—a period sufliciently prolonged to carry them into a less hurtful environment in the large intestine. On the other hand, I have found that larvae of Calliphora (the blow-fly or bluebottle) do not survive artificial peptic and pancreatic digestion for more than six or seven hours, and that a dozen full-grown living maggots of the same species can be repeatedly swallowed without any symptoms resulting. Further, we have a number of recorded cases where larvae, to the number of hundreds, have been, at one time, vomited from the stomach days after their first possible ingestion. In these cases they must not only have lived but also developed in ventre, since they could not have been swallowed when full grown on account of their size. It is not sufficient to suppose that the presence of gastric catarrh, or of other parasites, is the condition which determines the viability of larvte inhabit- ing the intestinal canal, for about 25 per cent of cases furnish no history of such ailments. We can only say that some departure from normal conditions is necessary for their con- tinued life in the gastro - intestinal tract of man. Treatment.—In intestinal cases free purgation is generally sufficient to bring about evacuation of the larvae and to cure the patient. Experi- ments with anthelmintic agents tend to show that attempts to kill the parasites in situ would generally be unsuccessful; and indeed in nearly all cases the larvae have been evacuated alive. Large enemata, 3 to 5 pints, containing aq. chloroformi or turpentine, may be found use- ful, the eff"ort being made rather to clear the colon than to kill the larvae. Washing out ^ Anything is possible to a child. Buckland states that he met some boys who would swallow living frogs at a charge of a halfpenny apiece. Larvse of Teichomyza fusca have survived about 40 hours' immersion in concentrated solution of alum ; Eristalis tenax lavvse lived 40 minutes in alcohol at 90° C. ; maggots of the blow-fly or flesh-fly will live 34 hours in tinct. iod. and 3 to 5 hours in aqueous solution of the hydrg. perchlor. 1-1000.—Lancet, vol. ii., 1890, p. 690. Pruvot, Lallier, I.e. infra.