LUNACY 15 who do come within the category of those de- scribed are designated and dealt with as follows —first, lunatics not under proper care and control or cruelly treated or neglected are to be examined separately by two medical men, and the order for reception made by a Justice appointed under the Lunacy Act of 1890 ; and second, pauper lunatics or lunatics wandering at large, the reception order is made by a Justice of the Peace, who calls to his assistance one medical man. Pauper lunatics may be detained in a workhouse on the certificate of the medical officer if patients are suitable and the accommoda- tion adequate ; and for similar reasons patients discharged imrecovered from institutions may be received and detained on the certificate of the medical officer. When a relieving officer applies to a Justice of Peace for an order for the detention of a lunatic in a workhouse two medical certificates are required—one by the medical officer of workhouse, the other by a medical practitioner. A district medical officer or medical officer to a workhouse may intimate to a relieving officer his knowledge that a person residing in the district is a lunatic, and a proper person to be sent to an institution. In such a case the Justice of the Peace directs a medical practitioner to examine. It is required also that medical officers of every workhouse and of every district of a union send to the clerk of the union, quarterly, a list of lunatic paupers within the district of the union not in institu- tions, but residing in workhouses and in private dwellings, re mental and bodily conditions, the accommodation provided, the care, and if mechanical restraint has been resorted to and by what means. Private and Pauper Patients in Scotland.— For the admission of private or pauper patients into an asylum two medical certificates are required, and the warrant of committal is only granted by the Sheriffi When it is proposed to send a paiiper patient to the lunatic wards of a poorhouse, if the patient has already been duly certified by two medical men, one medical certificate—not by medical officer of poorhouse —is required, and the sanction of the General Board. In cases where a second certificate is necessary, it may be signed by the medical officer of the poorhouse. A certificate of emergency granted by a medical man to enable an applicant to place a patient in an asylum is valid only for three days, in the lunatic wards of a poorhouse for seven days. When it is proposed to transfer a private or pauper patient from one asylum to another the sanction of the General Board of Lunacy is necessary, and one medical certificate is re- quired to the effect that the transfer may be safely effected. The General Board of Lunacy sanctions the reception of a private or pauper patient into a private dwelling specially licensed or otherwise. The application in the case of a private patient is accompanied by one medical certificate ; in the case of the pauper, by two; and in both cases it is further certified that the circumstances are suitable and sufficient for proper care and treatment. The General Board likewise sanctions the reception of a pauper child into an institution for the training of imbecile children, two medical certificates being necessary. Private and pauper patients on probation from an asylum for any period up to twelve months may at any time, on sufficient cause being shown, be replaced in an asylum. But on the expiry of probation a medical certificate is called for, to the effect either (1) that the patient is recovered, or (2) that he is still of unsound mind. In the latter case the certificate must further state that asylum treatment is no longer necessary. If an un- recovered private patient is to be kept for profit in a private dwelling the sanction of the Board must be obtained, and he must be visited by a medical man four times a year, or oftener if sickness or accident require it, who will make an entry of each visit in the manner specified in the medical attendant's visitation book. All pauper patients in private dwellings specially licensed or otherwise are visited four times a year by the parish medical officer, or other medical man appointed by the Parish Council, and in the visitation book kept in the house entries require to be made as to care, conduct, bodily and mental health, bedding, clothing, cleanliness, etc. An unrecovered pauper lunatic discharged from an asylum may be placed in a private dwelling provided a statement be given by the principal medical officer of the asylum as to fitness. It should be stated that punishment of any kind, or mechanical restraint in any form, is absolutely forbidden in private dwellings, either for private or pauper patients, and this is ex- pressly laid down in the printed directions of the Board to guardians. Before a license for a private dwelling to hold from two to four private or pauper patients is granted, a certificate by a medical man is re- quired as to the suitability of the house and of guardian. A person suff"ering from a mental malady which is unconfirmed may be placed in a private dwelling for a period not exceeding six months on one medical man's certificate. Whatever benefits may be claimed for the early treatment of insanity, certification and all that it implies, socially and otherwise, should not be resorted to except upon the clearest evidence that such a step is imperative. Curatory Patients in Scotland.—For the appointment of a curator bonis two medical certificates are needed. Curatory patients not kept for profit, and not registered as lunatics, do not require to be visited by a medical man;