MICEO-ORGANISMS 390 planted upon a surface of plaster-of-Paris and kept under conditions of moisture. The spores, two to four in number or more, appear in each cell as spherical bodies slightly flattened upon their juxtaposed surfaces. The spores stain by the same methods used for staining bacterial spores, being more resistant to staining reagents than are the vegetative cells. Though a number of yeasts have been found of late to exert a pathogenic action, their chief interest lies in their power to produce certain fermentations possessing industrial importance (beer, wine, etc.). It is chiefly due to Hansen that their action has been studied in pure culture, and the most suitable forms isolated and used in practice to the exclusion, as far as possible, of " wild" yeasts which frequently injure the product. Pure cultures of yeasts may be obtained by the methods ordinarily employed in the cultivation of bacteria, suitable media being used. Yeasts may be differentiated by the nature of the fermentation they produce, their appearances in culture and microscopically, and the influence of temperature upon their sporulation and sprouting, as also when patho- genic by their eff'ects upon animals. (See also " Post-mortem Methods.") Streptothricbs The Streptothrices hold an intermediary position between the bacteria and moulds, in that they are formed of intertwined threads which are branched, frequently not segmented, and at times terminating in spore-like bodies. The threads (comparable to the mycelium) may break up into segments resembling bacilli. To this class belong the Streptothrix (Actinomyces) bovis, S. madurse, and a number of other forms which have of recent years been found to exert a pathogenic action. Since branching forms of the Bacillus tuberculosis, B. lepra?, B. diphtherise, B. mallei, and other micro-organisms usually classed under bacteria have been observed, the latter, strictly speaking, should be classified as Streptothrices. All of these forms at times also show clubbed extremities similar to those observed in organisms belonging to this group. For convenience' sake the micro-organisms named are for the present retained under bacteria. Bacteria The Schizomycetes, or Bacteria, include by far the greatest number of known micro- organisms. They constitute the simplest and lowest forms of vegetable life and are of very minute size. Their dimensions are stated in microns, a micron, usually expressed by the Greek letter fj., being equivalent to O-QOl mm. Bacteria vary in size from 0-3-3-0 /x. They may be spherical (Micrococcus), cylindrical (Bacillus), spiral (Spirillum and Spirochsete), the generic names being based upon these funda- mental forms. Multiplication occurs through growth followed by division. Under suitable conditions, this growth and multiplication may be directly observed. In bacilli the growth occurs in the direction of the long axis only, the segmentation occurring transversely; in Micrococcus tetragenus it occurs in two direc- tions, giving rise to groups of four organisms; whereas in the Sarcinse division it occurs in three dimensions, the coherent cells forming cubical bales of eight or more cocci. The multiplication may be very rapid : in the case of B. subtilis it has been observed to occur in twenty minutes. In the act of dividing cocci may appear like short bacilli, and bacilli which are multiplying rapidly may simulate a coccus, but no confusion need result if the examination is made carefully under diff'erent conditions of growth. Though the typical micrococcus is spherical, certain forms when remaining in juxtaposition become modified in shape. This is the case with the M. gonorrhoese, where the opposing surfaces are flattened and somewhat indented, the cocci being also somewhat broader along the axis which runs parallel to the line of fission. The pneumococcus, on the other hand, when occur- ring as a diplococcus, is lanceolate at the free extremity, whence the name M. lanceolatus often given it. Flattening of opposed surfaces is seen in M. tetragenus and in the Sarcinse. Bacilli in chain-forming, non-motile forms like B. anthracis, are flattened at the extremities, whereas most of the motile forms are rounded. The body of the bacillus may be straight or slightly curved (B. megatherium). Both bacilli and spirilla vary considerably in the proportion between length and width. We speak of a short bacillus when the length is about twice that of the width, of a long bacillus when the length is four to ten times the width. Whereas the smallest bacillus known, that of influenza, measures 0"2-0"4 /a, the anthrax bacillus measures 3 by 1 //. Considerably larger forms are, however, known. The typical form of bacilli may be considerably modified during spore-formation; it may be simply widened, as in B. anthracis and B. mega- therium, bulged out at either side so as to form a " Clostridium" (B. butyricus), or be very much expanded at one extremity so as to include a spore which is wider than the cell which has formed it (B. tetani), giving rise to the "drum-stick" appearance. Under certain conditions, which are usually adverse to their growth, cocci, bacilli, and spirilla (streptococci, B. anthracis, cholera spirilla) may become re- markably modified in form (involution and fragmentation forms), so that they no longer resemble the parent form. These involution forms, which take the most variable shape and react feebly to stains, may often be resuscitated if brought \mder favourable conditions, giving rise again to normal-looking micro-organisms.