296 MEMORY IN HEALTH AND DISEASE But if, as I believe, the same principle of action holds in the higher parts of the nervous system, still so imperfectly understood, as exists in the lower parts of the nervous system, now more perfectly understood, we are able to get a better idea of the physical basis of memory. As Ferrier states: "We have no proof of subjectivity or modifications of consciousness apart from the action of the cerebral hemispheres. But we have no reason to believe that anything is superadded or that the action of the cortical centres is of a different order from that of the most simple nervous apparatus, but rather that between the simplest reflex action and the most complex cerebral process there is a continu- ous unbroken gradation. Why consciousness should arise only in correlation with the activity of the cerebral hemispheres is a question which has not yet received any satisfactory answer." Memory, therefore, may be conscious or it may be subconscious or automatic. The nerve- cells in the lowest level of the nervous system have as truly a memory as those in the cortex of the cerebrum, and the same type of nervous process takes place in each. The fact on which memory is based may be stated thus :—When a nerve-cell performs its function a condition is produced which renders it more liable to functionate in the same way again. The mere performance of its function, therefore, has altered the cell in such a way that it is easier for it to again perform its function. There is a retentum, a something retained in the cell—the nature of which we do not understand—but it is probably a molecular change of a biochemical nature. As nerve impulses, like every other force, follow the lines of least resistance, so this change brought about in the cell by one nerve impulse produces a result making it easier for a similar nerve impulse to pass in the same way. And the oftener a nerve impulse is repeated, the more readily does the nerve-cell functionate in the same way. The nerve-cell has therefore retained something from the previous nerve impulse, and this something is truly a memory, whether it is at a level of the nervous system giving rise to a conscious state, or at a lower level, as in the spinal cord, such as one sees in an unconscious reflex action. Let us take the lower motor neuron as an example. When cells in the anterior cornu of the spinal cord are brought into action a nerve impulse passes down the axis-cylinder or nerve-fibre to the muscle, and the result is a contraction of the muscle. If this process is repeated several times the muscle not only contracts on each occasion, but it contracts probably more readily, and after frequent and regular contraction the contractions become more forcible because of a process of hypertrophy of the muscle, provided the health and nutrition of the muscle are good. Action of the muscle therefore leads to growth and hypertrophy of the muscle. In this case stimulation of the muscle-cell not only produces contraction but also a result which is more permanent—that is, there is a residuum left from each contraction, and this residuum is in reality a memory, and it will be noticed that it is almost certainly a residuum depending on nutrition. But not only does the muscle contract more readily and more forcibly, but the nerve-cell also performs its function with greater efficiency, and probably with less ex- penditure of nervous energy after being called into action on several occasions. A residuum of some sort must here also have been left or produced in the nerve-cell and its axis-cylinder, and this residuum is also truly a memory. The same thing occurs in the higher neurons— when the neuron above the cells in the anterior cornu of the spinal cord is brought into action on each repetition of such action the cell be- comes, as it were, more expert, showing that a something is left or produced in the cell on each occasion it performs its function. Again this is a memory. And so one might take every cell of the nervous system, and it would be found that as a result of each action of the cell an effect is produced which is to some extent a permanent effect. In so far as the effect is permanent the cell retains the memory of its previous action. We may here state that as the memory of muscular action in muscles depends on nutrition, so it is almost certain that memory in nerve-cells depends also on nutrition ; and this is an important fact when the disorders of memory come to be considered. What I have already referred to may be con- sidered to be the first memories which are left or produced in the cells by their action. The action of the cells is possible, because of their anatomical and physiological relationship to each other — that is to say, the muscle contracts because the nerve stimulus is able to reach it by the anatomical arrangement of the nerve- fibril ending in it, and the impulse is able to leave the nerve - cell in the anterior cornu, because of the nerve impulse reaching that cell from cells in the higher neuron, or from cells at the same level on the sensory side in the spinal cord, as is seen in a reflex action, be- cause of the anatomical arrangement of the cells. According to the theory of evolution this physiological arrangement has probably resulted through a long period of time from the cells being acted on by each other through many generations. In this sense, therefore, the physio- logical arrangement may itself be considered an inherited memory. If one takes the nerv- ous system of a child at birth it will be seen that it consists of a large number of nerve- cells, nerve-fibres, and other structures which may be considered to be in a stable condition. Each nerve-cell has no memory, or, as I have said, its only memory is its anatomical arrange-