MEDICINE, FORENSIC 269 vagina, or when the head alone is born, can only be imperfect and cause partial distention of the lungs), the presence of injuries which could only be caused to a living child after complete birth—evidence of food having been administered —or considerable haemorrhage from a divided and unligatured umbilical cord. In cases of infanticide at birth the umbilical cord is usually torn, not cut, and this fact is recognised by examining the free end, when it will be found, as a rule, to have ragged, irregular edges, tapering on one side to a point, whereas the cord which has been divided by a sharp instrument presents a transverse wound in which all constituent parts of the cord have been cut at the same level. If this point cannot be easily determined owing to desiccation of the cord, the end should be softened in water. The Cause of Death.—There are many natural and accidental causes of death which may occur to an infant during birth or shortly afterwards, and the claims of these (especially in the absence of any signs of violence) must be carefully weighed, more particularly when any signs of immaturity, congenital debility, or a prolonged and difficult labour are present. It is unnecessary to specify more particularly what such causes of death may be, except to draw attention to the importance of a careful examina- tion of the air-passages, since a small quantity of mucus or some inspired matter will frequently provide an explanation of the death. The death of a child may be due to " omission " or culpable neglect of the ordinary attentions required by a child at birth. The criminality involved will depend upon the circumstances in each individual case, but frequently the defence urged in such cases is, that the birth took place unexpectedly, without any previous warning in the form of labour pains, or that any such in- dications were attributed to a call to stool, and that the mother fainted after delivery. This is quite possible, even in primiparee, but in such cases we must expect to find corroboration of the story in the absence of any signs on the child of a prolonged or difficult labour. Cases of true precipitate birth must be re- garded as extremely rare in primiparse. In multiparse, where the child is small and the maternal passages are large and expansive, the occurrence of precipitate birth is neither improbable nor uncommon, but in such cases we frequently find laceration of the perineum, and that the placenta is either born along with the child, or that the cord has been torn. The presentation is always the head, and it may present injuries—abrasions, contusions, or frac- ture as a result of coming in violent contact with the ground. Violent Causes of Death.—These may be any of the violent causes of death which occur in the case of adults, and must be investigated and considered in the same manner and with the same objects in view, e.g. determination of how they were produced, whether ante- or post-mor- tem, cause of death, etc. Suffocation, strangu- lation, drowning, wounds and injuries to the head are the methods most frequently employed. With reference to fractures, the possibility of their having been caused during birth must be considered. Fracture of the skull, more espe- cially of one or other parietal bone, may occur during birth, but naturally will be associated with other signs of a difficult labour. The fractures may, however, be so extensive as to preclude this mode of causation being enter- tained. On the other hand, defects and fissures of the skull, due to imperfect ossification, must not be mistaken for the effect of violence. Injuries, such as ruptures of the liver, fractures of bones, etc., may be caused in utero as a result of violence inflicted on the mother. Hoiv long has a Child been dead—This ques- tion must be decided on the general evidence of the post-mortem changes and progress of putrefaction. The Examination of Blood-Stains.—The identi- fication of blood-stains is not a matter of diffi- culty when the stains are recent and abundant. When, however, they are old or minute, and more especially when they are complicated by the presence of rust or have been exposed to heat or the action of chemicals, their detection is not so easy. For a full description of the physical and other properties of blood the special article upon this subject must be consulted (see "Blood," vol. i. p. 408). If a stain is fresh and on a textile fabric, then a small portion should be placed on a microscope slide in a drop or two of a solution of glycerine and water (1 in 10) or ^ per cent salt solution and allowed to soak for a time, after which the fluid is examined for blood corpuscles. The finding of blood cor- puscles proves in the most absolute manner the presence of blood. If the stain is not recent, greater difficulty will be experienced, and the portion of stained fabric must be allowed to soak for a much longer period in one of the above solutions, or in stains of considerable age, in a solution of caustic potash (30 per cent) or glycerine and strong sulphuric acid (3 to 1). These fluids tend to soften the dried masses of corpuscles and to detach them, without causing any alteration in their form. Failing confirmation of the presence of blood by this test, or in conjunction with it, a portion of the stained fabric may be soaked in a small quantity of cold distilled water, when, if the stain is comparatively recent, i.e. the hsemoglobin has not become transformed into insoluble hsematin, the blood-colouring matter will dissolve out and give a reddish solution. To this red solution the following two tests may be applied :— 1. Application of Heat. — It loses its red