428 MIND, EDUCATION OF THE with hand or foot." Now, as motion is the only thing which produces anything, it is very important that we should have motor ideas. The dreamers in life who are always going to do something and never accomplish it get by degi'ees motor paralysis. Motor action should be cultivated and be directed to definite ends. As boys and girls grow older ideal suggestions have more force, so that, as Wundt says, " the memory image of a movement is apt at once to arouse the movement itself." A study of motor reactions and their resulting habituations is evidence that education should chiefly consist in doing. To tell a child how to do a thing is of little use; the pupil must himself perform the necessary actions, for that is the only way to get the desired result. It should be re- membered by teachers and parents, as well as medical men, that children can control the muscles of the limbs sometime before those of the fingers, and it is of no use to expect a child to be able to write or draw until he can control the muscles which put the fingers into action. Motor tracts require as careful training as sensory tracts, and they should be developed as early as possible, while they are still in a plastic condition. Drill is especially important in de- veloping the muscles, and manual training in enabling the child to control the fine movements of the fingers. Modifications take place in the motor area of the brain, and correlated muscular reaction ensues. As regards the fibres of association, we have already mentioned that their development is of the utmost importance. Without them per- ception, memory, and thought could not exist. We cannot form a complete image of an orange, for example, until we have tasted it, smelt it, seen it, and touched it. The diff'erent stimuli which pass into the gustatory, visual, etc. centres of the brain must be connected together by means of the association fibres in order to make our knowledge of an object as complete as possible. If our sensations were incapable of being con- nected memory would be impossible, for in developing this faculty it is necessary to pro- ceed by association from one idea to another. So with reference to thought, it is necessary to have all our knowledge associated, so that clear ideas may result. In mind-blindness the patient sees, but cannot interpret the impressions, and the memory of visual images is lost. This eff'ect has been produced in dogs by extirpation of the occipital lobe, and by destruction of the first temporal convolution in the same animals mind- deafness is produced. In this last affection, although the auditory apparatus is unimpaired, the power of recognising words and terms is lost. It is inferred, therefore, than in man mind-blindness and mind-deafness are due to diseases of the occipital and first temporal convolutions. This then proves how necessary it is that all our senses should be in good order. so that the association of ideas shall be clear and well defined. These senses must be well associated too, or we could never recall the various sense aspects of anything. Vulpius, who made a careful study of the tangenital fibres, the fibres of association in the brain, found that they increased considerably between the ages of sixteen months and thirty-three years of age, and during this period the brain becomes increased in size and weight. It is therefore clear that every effort must be made to develop these fibres, for when new brain cells become associated a physical foundation is originated and a new idea is brought into existence. While pursuing the intellectual education of the child it is important that the moral training should not be neglected. To a great extent this is in the hands of the parents; and when the children are still young, truthfulness, honour, and uprightness should be strictly in- culcated. Character is then formed, and if it is not done then it will be difficult afterwards. Many parents leave their children too much in the hands of their nurses and servants, and if the moral character of these is deficient, the child is bound to suffer. He begins by doing wrong, and if not checked the evil develops; and when he goes to school grosser faults appear, and finally some glaring vice takes place and expulsion is the result. The older a boy is, and in like manner with the girl, the less chance he has, if his moral training has been neglected, of learning self-control and self-respect, and the result may be a dishonour- able existence. True happiness depends upon a well-ordered life, and only those whose moral training has been strictly attended to can expect the approbation of their fellow-men. Having treated of the way in which the education of the mind should be conducted, it only remains to show by what means certain classes of children should be instructed and treated. Weak-minded children, especially, require that their senses should be educated, and that all teaching should be on the concrete system, as they are not capable, at least at first, of com- prehending abstract ideas. It is unnecessary to say more of this class of children, as they have already been described under the heading of " Mental Deficiency." In many cases mental dulness is due to the presence of adenoids, and if the child is noticed to sleep with his mouth open, these growths should be looked for, and if found they should be removed. As regards ner-vous children, great care in their education is necessary. Such children sleep badly, grind their teeth, talk in their sleep, have night-terrors, are too tall for their age, and grow thin, though they have no actual disease. In the Report on the Scientific Study of the Mental and Physical Conditions of Child-