205 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF ligature from slipping. If only a small wound be made in the axillary vein, it is wiser to apply a double ligature to the whole vessel rather Fig. 25.—Transverse section of an axillary lymphatic trunk, the lumen of which contains rings and small clusters of cancer cells which no doubt represent emboli which have been con- veyed to it from smaller lymphatics. than to trust to a lateral ligature. Should the glands be adherent to the vein, a portion of the latter may be safely removed. If the bleeding at the operation be less than usual owing to cardiac weakness, it is a wise precaution to introduce a drain, as some reactionary haemorrhage is liable to occur. If the reactionary hsemorrhage be at all severe, the patient should be anaesthetised and the surgeon should not hesitate to freely open up the wound, to remove all the clots, and to search for and ligature any bleeding- vessels ; he must not be surprised, however, if none be discovered, as the bleeding may be a general ooze due either to a hsemophilic tendency or to some general condition inter- fering with the natural arrest of haemorrhage. The opening up of the wound must be done with the same precautions to secure asepsis as at the original operation. The advantage of thoroughly removing all blood-clots is that the subsequent healing of the wound will not be delayed. Suprarenal extract would appear to be the best internal remedy in obstinate cases of general oozing. Ulceration of the tumour adds very materi- ally to the risk of the operation. It is in these cases that death from acute sepsis is liable to occur. Possibly, in some instances, the organisms have been conveyed by the lymphatics to the deeper tissues, where they remain latent until set free and excited activity by the operation. However this may be, every endeavour should be made to prevent direct infection of the wound from the ulcer at the time of operation. Some days before the oper- ation pure carbolic acid should be well rubbed into the ulcer after painting it with a 5 per cent solution of cocaine, and this may be repeated two or three times at intervals of a day or so. During the time the ulcer is being purified special attention must also be paid to the surrounding skin, which is certain to swarm with organisms derived from the discharges of the ulcer. The skin over the chest should be well washed daily with warm water containing spirits of soap and lysol. At the operation pure carbolic acid should be reapplied, or, what is still better, the actual cautery should be thoroughly applied to the surface of the ulcer, which is then covered by a pad of gauze which should be sutured to the adjacent skin to keep it in position. The skin over the rest of the field of operation is then purified in the manner already indicated. A drain should always be used in these cases, and too much tension should not be put upon the flap. Before leaving the subject of the operative treatment, reference must be made to prelimi- nary explorations. In all cases in which the diagnosis is in the least doubtful an exploratory operation is advisable. The worst advice that can be given is to recommend the patient to wait and try the effect of local applications. An exploratory operation should be urged without FIG to , 26 —Portion of a lymphatic gland the size of a small pea. To the naked eye the gland appeared to be perfectly healthy. The microscope, however, reveals a few clusters of cancer cells (more deeply stained than the lymphoid cells of the gland) in the sub- capsular lymph sinus at that part of the circumference towards the left lower quadrant of the field ; to tlie right is the adipose tissue of the hilum of the gland. unnecessary delay, and the surgeon must obtain the consent of the patient to proceed there and then to perform a radical operation should the condition prove to be malignant.