MEDICINE, FORENSIC 253 of the skin before it is perforated. The direc- tion in which the skin splits depends upon the situation in the body, for it has been shown that skin has a natural tendency to split in various directions in different situations. In a punctured wound produced by glass or crock- ery, the external wound and its edges are usu- ally irregular and indicate thus the mode of production. Stabs or punctures produced by sharp-pointed weapons, such as knives, correspond in shape as a rule to that of the weapon which produced them, i.e. they are linear with regular edges and are sharp-angled at both ends, even al- though the knife has only one cutting edge. The wound is frequently described as being obtuse angled at one end (that corresponding to the non-cutting edge of the blade); but, as a rule, this is not so, because from the spot where the point enters the skin, the further extension of the woiind is produced by the cutting edge alone. The size of the wound does not necessarily correspond to the size of the weapon. In the case of blunt-pointed knives, the skin is more or less stretched before perforation, and on withdrawal of the weapon it retracts, and thus the wound is actually smaller; on the other hand, the wound is frequently larger where the weapon is sharp, on account of the wound being enlarged during withdrawal of the weapon. For the same reason, the wound may be irregular in shape, the knife having been withdrawn in a different plane from that in which it entered. In stabs through folds of skin, the wound will present an irregular shape and be larger than the size of the knife. In comparing the size of a stab with the width of a knife, it must be remembered that retraction of the edges of the wound reduces its length, and hence they should be approximated before measuring. In stabs of bone, e.g. the skull, the wovind often corresponds exactly to the shape of the weapon; on the other hand, such wounds are frequently accompanied by fracture either of the whole thickness or of the outer table of bone. In stabs, fatal haemorrhage may take place internally without any external effusion of blood. With only one external wound there may be two or more internal stabs, owing to the weapon having been only partially withdrawn before being again plunged into the tissues. The weapon which has been used usually shows stains of blood, but these may be absent, owing to the clothes having wiped it on with- drawal ; or again, in stout people, owing to the subcutaneous fat which tends to protrude, having performed the same function. It is perhaps possible also that the vessels may be so compressed in a sudden plunge and with- drawal of a weapon, that no blood escapes on to it. Lacerated ivounds are characterised by a tear- ing rather than a cutting of the tissues. They result, as a rule, from violence with flat or blunt rounded instruments, or from falls. They are generally irregular in shape, and accom- panied by bruising and contusion of adjacent parts. The chief question of medico-legal importance in connection with such wounds is to determine whether they have been caused by direct vio- lence or by a fall. The latter defence is always put forward in criminal cases, and in arriving at a decision, the seat of injury, i.e. whether it is a situation liable to be injured in a fall, the nature and extent of the wounds, and a personal examination of the locus in certain cases, should be made. Some lacerated wounds are incon- sistent with production by a simple fall, either from their situation, e.g. the vertex of the head, or from their extent or number. Ruptures of internal organs may be caused indirectly by falls or by direct violence, and it is important to remember that while injuries of well-protected organs, e.g. those of the chest or the kidneys, require very considerable violence for their production, such as is occasioned by a fall from a height, or by being run over by a vehicle; other organs, such as the liver, spleen, and intestines, may be ruptured by a simple fall on the ground while walking, or by a comparatively slight blow. Ruptures of the heart and lungs are usually associated with fracture of ribs and other signs of severe violence; but this is not always the case, especially in young people whose carti- lages are pliant. Cases of rupture of the heart and lungs from violence, and even complete detachment of the heart, so that it lies loose in the pericardial sac, have occurred without any other sign of external or internal injury being present. Rupture of the heart not infrequently occurs spontaneously as a result of disease of the muscular walls. It is not necessary that the person should have been making any exertion at the time of rupture; it may occur while lying in bed, and rapidly causes death from effusion of blood into the pericardial sac. Such ruptures, as a general rule, are small, and situ- ated in the left ventricle towards the apex; whereas ruptures due to violence may be of any size, and are found in the great majority of instances near the base of the organ. Ruptiires of abdominal organs may be the result of very considerable violence, such as a wheel or a conveyance passing over the body, or of a comparatively slight blow or fall against a hard object. In both cases very often there is no external indication of injury, and hence great caution must be exercised in at once ex- pressing the opinion that a person is uninjured who is reported to have been run over, or who complains of having received a blow over the