384 METHYLENE BLUE dark-green crystals, which give an intensely blue solution in water. Dose—1-4 grs. Methylene blue is largely used as a stain in bacteriology and hsematology. It has also been employed medicinally but without much success. It has been tried as an analgesic in migraine, neuralgia, and painful nervous affections, and it has been recommended in malaria, rheumatism, dysentery, gonorrhoea, and a great many other diseases. In ulcerative stomatitis it may be applied as a dusting powder or in solution to promote healing of the ulcers and to relieve pain. Its disadvantage is that it stains the mucous membranes blue, but this may be re- moved by the application of liquor sodse chlori- natse. For cystitis it is recommended that 2-grain doses be given in capsule and that the bladder be washed out with a 2 per cent solu- tion. Methylene blue is now widely employed as a test for renal efficiency by observing its rate of elimination in the urine after administra- tion. For this purpose it is best given in 5 per cent aqueous solution, injected into the gluteus maximus muscle in quantities varying from 15 to 60 minims. The rapidity of its appearance in the urine, the intensity of the green or blue colouration, the time required for complete elimination, etc., must be noted and compared with what is known to take place in a healthy individual under similar circumstances. In de- termining the relative and absolute functioning capacity of each kidney separately by the use of a segregator or by ureteral catheterisation, the employment of the methylene blue test is of the greatest importance and should never be omitted. Methyl Green.—A staining reagent for histological work ; it is one of the aniline dyes, and, chemically, it is the double zincic chlorhy- drate of chlormethyl hexamethyl-para-rosaniline. It has been combined by Ehrlich with pyronin (chlorhydrate of tetramethyl-diamido-diphenyl carbidride) to form a specially valuable stain for various microbes. Methylrhodin. — Aceto - salicylate of methyl (CjqHj^O^). See Methyl Salicylate. Methyl Salicylate. — Synthetically prepared Oil of Wintergreen, a colourless liquid with a powerful characteristic odour. It has been used for the same purposes as salicylic acid. Applied externally, covered with imper- meable tissue, it is said to be quickly absorbed. 1 in 8 in olive oil or lanolin is a useful applica- tion for rheumatic pains. Methyl salicylate plasters are prepared for lumbago, sciatica, etc. See Gaultheria. Met oestrum. See Ancestrum. Metol.—A chemical used in the develop- ment of photographic plates, which may be the cause of an eruption on the hands. See Derma- titis Traumatica et Venenata {Special Erup- tions, Metol). Metopag'US.—A variety of double mon- ster in which the twins are united by the frontal regions of the heads (Gr. /jLerw-n-ov, the space between the eyes, and Trayto?, firm or fixed). MetopantritiS.—Inflammation of the lining membrane of the frontal sinus (Gr. /xeVtoTTov, forehead, and avrpov, a cavern). Metopantralg^ia.—Pain in the frontal sinuses. See Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflam- mation OF (Frontal Sinus). MetopiC Suture.—The frontal suture. Metopism.—A widely-open condition of the frontal suture persisting after the first few months of life, and constituting a wide mem- branous space in tiie middle of the forehead. Metra-.—in compound words metra- (Gr. [iTjTpa, the womb) means relating to the uterus; e.g. metralgia (pain in the uterus), metratresia (imperforation of the uterus), metratome (hys- terotome), metrauxe (enlargement of the uterus), etc. See also Metro-. Metreurysis.—Dilatation of the uterus (Gr. fiTjTpa, womb, ovpos, a boundary) by means of a special instrument (metreurynter). Metric System.—The metric or deci- mal system has obvious advantages over the system of weights and measures in use at present in the British Isles, and these advan- tages apply as much to its scientific as to its ordinary employment; but one objection has hitherto sufficed to prevent its general adoption, viz., its unfamiliarity. Its employment would necessitate many alterations in the nomencla- ture of the laws of the country, in educational methods and text-books, and in the details of commercial life; but there is a gi'owing feeling that these changes will have to be faced ere long. The fundamental unit of the system is the metre (also written meter), which is equal to 39"37 English inches. This is also the unit of length, and all the other measures of length are either multiples or subdivisions of it by ten, Greek prefixes being used for the names of the multiples and Latin ones for those of the sub- divisions : thus a dekametre (Dm.) is 10 metres, a hectometre (Hm.) is 100 metres, a kilometre (Km.) is 1000 metres, and a myriametre (Mm.) is 10,000 metres ; on the other side, a decimetre (dm.) is one-tenth (O'l) of a metre, a centimetre (cm.) is one-hundredth (O'Ol) of a metre, a millimetre (mm.) is one-thousandth (O'OOl) of a metre, and a micron (/x) is the one-millionth part (0'000001) of a metre. In order to contrast