MEDIASTINUM, THE 239 Arsenic in large doses may also be tried; it certainly is of benefit in some cases of sarcoma occurring externally. One of the most annoying of the patient's troubles is an irritating, fruitless cough. This may be relieved by the adminis- tration of a combination of the hydrochlorates of morphine and apomorphine in small doses. If this does not give relief the phosphate of codeine in to 2 grain doses may be tried, or heroin in doses of gr. several times daily. Should the cough become paroxysmal and very distressing to the patient, subcutaneous injec- tions of morphine in combination with atropine may be required. Morphine will also be neces- sary in case of great pain and restlessness. The spasmodic attacks of dyspnoea are sometimes relieved by the inhalation of amyl-nitrite, or the internal administration of nitroglycerine. Occasionally it will be found that great relief is obtained from the inhalation of chloroform; 5-minim capsules may be used for this purpose. In protracted dyspnoea, especially if attended with much cyanosis, oxygen may be inhaled with advantage—about 10 to 15 minutes every two or three hours, or oftener if necessary. If there be great venous obstruction, relief may sometimes be obtained by venesection, cupping, or leeching ; unfortunately, however, the relief is generally only temporary. The oedema of the arms met with in soine of these cases may be relieved by carefully bandaging the arms with a flannel bandage. The application of small, flying blisters will frequently relieve the superficial pain of which the patient complains, or the part may be painted with a mixture of two parts of extract of belladonna and one of glycerine. Rubbing in anodyne or stimulating liniments, such as a mixture of equal parts of the liniments of aconite, belladonna, and chloroform, or the linimentum camphorge ammoniatum, may be tried. If fluid be present in the pleural cavity and the patient be suffering from dyspnoea, the chest should be aspirated. Sudden and protracted sleep is sometimes the result of aspirations in these cases. As a rule, when the fluid is blood- stained recurrence after aspiration is rapid; but cases have been recorded in which the patient has regained sufficient health to enable him to return to work for some months. The same precautions must be taken in as- pirating the chest in cases of effusion secondary to a new growth as are adopted in ordinary pleuritic effusion, and the same kinds of risk are experienced; for instance, after drawing off sixty ounces of clear serum in a case of lymph- adenoma of the anterior mediastinum, death occurred half an hour later from suffocation due to albuminous expectoration. Should dyspnoea be an urgent symptom the question of tracheotomy may have to be con- sidered. If on laryngoscopic examination, it be found that the glottis is in its normal con- dition, neither oedema of the larynx, paralysis of the abductors of the cords, nor other causes of stenosis of the larynx being present, together with an absence of respiratory excursions of the larynx, then it may be definitely stated that tracheotomy would be useless. If, on the other hand, there may be some obstruction at the glottis, the possibility of a second stenosis, as from direct pressure of a growth upon the trachea, must be borne in mind. If the signs of obstruction in the larynx are distinct, and the evidence of pressure lower down somewhat dovibtful, then the patient should have the benefit of the doubt, and tracheotomy should be performed. It is but seldom that surgical treatment is of any avail in tumour of the mediastinum. Cases of hydatid disease have, however, been operated on successfully ; the difficulty is to arrive at the diagnosis. The use of the trochar and cannula, and more especially of the aspirator, is to be deprecated : the method of treatment of hydatid of the lung is by free incision. The result obtained by injections of Coley's fluid (toxins of streptococcus erysipelatosus and •bacillus prodigiosus) have at present, at all events in this country, been very disappointing. The treatment by injection is distressing to the patient and not free from danger to life; still if there be any possibility of arresting the onward progress of a malignant growth, some jjatients will be found willing to risk pain and immediate peril to life in the hope of cure. Notes on Certain Tumours Tuberculous enlargement of the mediastinal glands is probably the most frequent of the tumours met with in that region, but they rarely attain sufficient size to give rise to defi- nite symptoms or physical signs. See vol. ii. p. 17 for affections of the bronchial glands. Gumma of the lung is chiefly met with in advilts, though it has been seen in the new born. The average period for the lung affection to appear is from four to five years after infection ; but it may occur earlier than two years, or much later than ten years. A gumma usually occurs as a round, well-defined tumour, varying in size from a pea to an egg; the more recent specimens are greyish white or greyish red in colour, and of firm consistence. The older ones are of a yellow colour and have undergone softening in the centre ; cavities may eventually form in the lung substance, which later on may shrink and even close up. Gummata of the lung seldom occur singly, but are scattered through one or both lungs, the site of predilec- tion being the middle and lower lobes of the lungs. For extension of a thyroid tumour into the chest see article on " Thyroid Gland, Medical." Enlargement of the thymus occasionally acts