MOUTH—DISEASES OF THE MOUTH 460 is lightly plugged with a little strip of gauze or lint. This is changed once or twice daily, and the cavity washed out with a mild antiseptic lotion. Erectile tumours are sometimes met with in the floor of the mouth, and were formerly termed blood ranulas. They are really some form of cavernous ntevi. Occasionally a lipoma is met with in the floor of the mouth, and used to be termed fatty ranula. It would be im- possible to distinguish them from dermoid cysts. Epithelioma originating in the floor of the mouth is sometimes met with. It diff"ers scarcely at all from epithelioma of the tongue. Owing to its proximity to the lower jaw the growth tends to become adherent to the bone earlier than in epithelioma of the tongue. Beyond this fact there is nothing very special in epithelioma in this situation. Injuries and Diseases of the Jaw Fractures—Superior Maxilla Etiology ayid Pathology.—T\\q cause is nearly always a direct blow upon the face in the region of one or both superior maxillae, such as the kick of a horse, a blow with a truncheon, or wounds caused by artillery, especially segment shells. The disrupting force may be indirect, very rarely from above, the frontal bone being driven into the maxillBe; more often a blow on the chin may cause a fracture of the maxillae. A fracture of a portion of the maxilla is common enough; very often the force bears directly on the superior maxilla, as in the extraction of teeth, when the alveolar process may be more or less damaged in the region of the tooth. Fractures of the palatal process, or of the an- terior wall of the maxilla, may be caused by foreign bodies being pushed inwards, e.g. the end of an umbrella or stick, gunshot wounds, etc. A localised fracture may be caused in- directly by blows upon the zygomatic arch or malar bone. A systematic description of most of the frac- tures of the superior maxillae is impossible; no two accidents are exactly alike in their results. There are, however, two well-recognised exten- sive fractures aff'ecting both bones. (1) Transverse fracture, caused by a blow, especially the kick of a horse, striking the maxillae just below the nose and separating them into an upper and lower portion, the line of separation being about half an inch below the malar process laterally, and through the vertical plate of the palate mesially; the ptery- goid processes may be separated and remaining in lower fragment; the lower fragment may then be driven back against the posterior wall of the film. (2) Vertical fracture, in which the two superior maxillae and the two palate bones are separated to the extent of one-third of an inch. (3) Comminuted fractures, from the passage of vehicles over the face, the effect of gunshot wounds, etc., are not uncommon. Complications.—In cases where great violence has been at work the cranial bones may be fractured, and injuries to the brain and its membrane may be present. When the alveolar process is fractured the teeth may often become separated or loosened. Haemorrhage from some branch of the internal maxillary artery or from the main trunk may occur. Secondary haemor- rhage is by no means infrequent after extensive fractures of the upper jaw. Injury to the infra- orbital nerve, with resulting anaesthesia in its area of distribution, and sometimes neiiralgia may occvir. In all cases where the fracture involves parts of the bone covered by gum or mucous membrane of the mouth the danger of septic inflammation must be borne in mind. Symptoms and Diagnosis.—In the majority of cases the signs are very evident, like those of fracture in any other part of the body : crepitus with pain on movement, mobility of a part usually fixed, more or less deformity of the face, haemorrhage from the mouth or nose, and ecchy- moses in the soft tissues near the seat of frac- ture. In certain cases there may be no marked evidence of any fracture. The presence of a fracture may be elicited by careful manipulation and by examining for any tender region. In obscure cases stress should be laid upon haemor- rhage into the mouth and nose. More especially ecchymoses should be looked for in the mucous membrane of the palate, and, after some days, in the conjunctiva. Fractures involving the maxillary sinus may be accompanied by surgical emphysema of the eyelids and cheek. Loss of sensibility in the zone of distribution of the infra-orbital nerve and of the anterior and posterior dental branches should be looked for. The finger should reach well to the site of the pharynx for evidence of the mobility of the pterygoid processes. Later on, secondary symptoms are of importance. Among these are septic infection in cases where the soft parts over the seat of fracture are torn and are exposed to microbic invasion. Septic complications, however, are much rarer in fractures of the upper jaw than those of the mandible. Treatment. — It is most important to re- member that, however comminuted the fracture may be, all the fragments, even those only slightly adherent, should be preserved. It is well recognised that these comminuted fractures nearly always become united. If the fragments be in direct communication with the mouth, antiseptic washes and insufflations of iodoform powder are necessary. The divei-sity of fractures of the superior maxilla being so great, it is impossible to describe the various methods that may be necessary for maintaining the fragments in proper position. In many cases the frag-