524 NATALITY population, or the probability of births occur- ring under given conditions of age, etc. Nataloin. — The aloin obtained from Natal aloes. See Aloes and Aloin. Na,ta.l Sore. See Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Veldt or Natal Sores). Ncltes.—The buttocks, also the anterior pair of the corpora quadrigemina of the brain. Natiform.—Shaped like the buttock, e.g. the natiform skull of rickets and perhaps also of syphilis See Rickets {Head, Natiform Shill); Syphilis {In Children, Bones of Skull). Native. — Indigenous, not strange or foreign, original. The proteids which are found already formed in the tissues are called native ; " native notes " are birth-marks or luevi. IMatrium.—Sodium {q.v.). Natural.—A popular term for an idiot or half-witted person; one naturally deficient mentally^—"the vacant grin of a natural." Nauheim Treatment.— The Nau- heim or Schott method is the treatment of heart disease, chronic rheumatism, etc. by gymnastic exercises, and baths containing Nauheim salts. See Balneology {Germany, Muriated Waters); Heart, Neuroses of {Tachycardia, Treatment); Mineral Waters {Mnriated) : Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Germany). Naunyn's Theory.— The view that the cholesterine of the bile is formed by the breaking down of the epithelium lining the bile ducts. See Physiology, Food and Digestion (Bile Composition). Nausea. See Alcoholism {Intoxication); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Anmmia of Brain, Symptoms); Myiasis {Symptoms of Intestinal Myiasis) ; Pregnancy, Diagnosis ; Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {General Symptomatology); Uraemia {Symptoms, Diges- tive). Nautomania.—Morbid fear of a ship; also a peculiar form of insanity occurring speci- ally in sailors, and characterised by dangerous mania and a morbid dread of water. Navel.—The umbilicus. See Umbilicus, Diseases of. Navicular.—Boat-shaped, e.g. the navi- cular or scaphoid bone of the tarsus and carpus ; the fossa naviculai-is is the boat - shaped de- pression between the fourchette and the peri- neum in the female. See Generation, Female Organs of {Uxternal Organs). Neapolitan Disease. See Syphilis {Synonyms). Neapolitan Fever. See Undulant Fever. Near-Point. See Physiology, Senses ( Vision, Acco?nmodation); Refraction. Near-Sigfht. See Myopia. Neaves' Food. See Infant Feeding {Proprietary Foods). Nebula.—A slight opacity of the cornea. See Cornea {Ulcerative Inflammation, Results). Nebulae. — Solutions, given in the form of spray, for the throat and naso-pharynx, by means of a nebuliser or atomiser. See Atomisation. Neck, Reg^ion of. Anatomical Points .... 524 Injuries ...... 526 Cut Throat, etc. . . . . 526 Inflammatory Affections . . . 527 Abscess ..... . 527 Cysts and Cystic Tumours . . . 528 Solid Tumours ..... 528 See also Aneuryism {Of the Neck); Aorta, Thoracic, Aneurysm of {Arterial Pulsation of the Neck) ; Brachial Plexus, Surgical Affec- tions OF ; Children, Clinical Examination of {The Neck, Stiffness); Eczema {Neck); Glandu- lar Fever {Clinical Features, Pain in the Neck); Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology {Lymphatic Glands of the Neck); Mediastinum {Emphysema of Neck); Medicine, Forensic {Death from Asphyxia, Hanging); Meningitis, Tuberculous and Posterior Basic {Symptoms, Neck Stiffness); Meningitis, Epi- demic Cerebro-Spinal {Symptoms, Stiffness of Neck): (Esophagus (Wounds of Neck); Parotid Gland, Disorders of. Anatomical Points.—For precision in anatomi- cal description the region of the neck has been divided into triangles. Thus, the space bounded by the middle line of the neck in front, by the sterno-mastoid behind, and above by the lower border of the jaw, and an imaginary line con- necting it with the mastoid, is termed the anterior triangle. This is further divided by the anterior belly of the omohyoid muscle and by the two bellies of the digastric into the inferior carotid, superior carotid, and digastric triangles in order from below upwards. In the same way the triangular space between the sterno-mastoid muscle in front and the trapezius behind, of which the base is formed by the middle third of the clavicle, is named the posterior triangle. It, in turn, is divided into two smaller triangles by the posterior belly of the omohyoid, the upper the occipital, and the