MAGN magnesium sulphate produce anaesthesia when injected intraspinously, but the drug has been little employed for this purpose. Intracerebral injection has been reported to have a favourable effect in tetanus. Magnesium sulphate forms an insoluble sulphate with salts of lead, and is therefore given as a prophylactic to lead workers. Magnesia and the carbonates are given to neutralise acids in the stomach and intestine in the treatment of dyspepsias and diarrhoea; they also have a mild purgative action, and the carbonate is often used in con- junction with the sulphate. They form in- soluble compounds with mineral acids, oxalic acid, and salts of mercury, arsenic, and copper, and they are therefore administered in cases of poisoning from these substances. Magrnesium-Perhydrol.—A form of magnesium peroxide introduced by Merck; it is a white powder, insoluble in water; in the stomach the preparation splits up into mag- nesium chloride and peroxide of hydrogen which yields oxygen, and if it is desired that this de- composition do not take place till the intestine is reached the drug can be given as a coated tablet. It is recommended as a gastro-intestinal antiseptic in cases of gastric catarrh (of various kinds), of dysentery, of diarrhoea, of habitual constipation, of anaemia and chlorosis, etc. See also Hydrogen Peroxide. Ma.g'netism. See Electricity {Magneto- Electricity, Faradism). Magrnetism, Animal. See Hyp- notism. Mag'nolia.—A genus of plants the bark of which is used in intermittent fever and rheu- matism ; official in the U.S. Pharmacopoeia. MahatlCa. See Andrographis. Mahler's Sigri.—The progressive rise of the pulse-rate (the temperature remaining normal) in the puerperium is regarded as an early sign of impending thrombosis and embolism. Maialine.—An alkaloid extracted from Convallaria majalis. Maiche Steriliser.—An apparatus for sterilising water by boiling, in which a loss of the gaseous constituents is prevented and the water is rapidly cooled down. Maid ism US.—Pellagra {q.v.), a disease due to the toxic action of diseased maize. Maieusiomania.—Puerperal mania. MaieuSOphobia.—A dread of having children or of childbirth. MaieutiCS. — Obstetrics or midwifery (Gr. /Attta, a midwife). vol. VI ESIUM 113 Maig^nen'S Filter.—A filter for puri- fying water, containing charcoal, lime, and as- bestos ; it is named " filtre rapide." Maig^nen's Process.—A method of removing the hardness of water by the addition of a powder composed of lime, carbonate of soda, and alum (" poudre anticalcaire "). Main-en-g^riffe.—Claw-hand, due to atrophy of the interossei muscles in cases of paralysis; it is occasionally seen in tetany. See Paralysis [Progressive Muscular Atrophy) ; Tetany {Motor Syrn2)toms). MaiSOn de Sant^.—A private lunatic asylum. Maisonneuve's Method.—A method of performing internal urethrotomy See Urethra, Diseases of {Stricture, Treatment). Maize. See Pellagra {Causes); Physio- logy, Food and Digestion (Vegetable, Cereals); Toxicology ( Vegetable Foods, Pellagra). Mai.—Disease (Fr.); e.g. mal de mer (sea- sickness), mal de tete (headache), grand mal (a fully developed attack of epilepsy). Malacca. See Balneology {Ivdia). Malacia.—A morbid softness of an organ or tissue {e.g. malacosteon), or the depraved appetite of pregnancy {pica). Malacosteon. See Osteomalacia {Mol- lities Ossiuin); Labour, Precipitate and Pro- longed {Rarer Fo7-ms of Pelvic Deformity, Osteomalacic Pelvis); Pregnancy, Affections and Complications {Osseous Changes, Osteo- malacia). Malady. See Disease, especially for such eponymic terms as maladie de Hanot (Hyper- trophic Cirrhosis of the Liver), maladie de Woillez (Primary Congestion of the Lungs), etc. Malagra. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Mediterranean Resorts, Spain). Malaise.—A condition of general dis- comfort with languor and lassitude, but usually without the development of any symptoms pointing to a definite disease; malease without disease. Malar.—Relating to the cheek (Lat. mala, the jaw or cheek bone); e.g. the malar bone, a malar flush, etc. Malaria. Nomenclature and Synonyms . . 114 Definition . . . . . . 11-i Historical . . . . . .114 Geographical Distribution . . .116 8