NEPHRITIS 533 The transition from the morbid anatomy of acute nephritis to that of chronic nephritis is extremely ill-defined, and this doubtless is the explanation of the great variation in the appear- ances which have been described. Acute Nephritis after Scarlet Fever.—When death occurs in the course of scarlet fever, or during convalescence from this disease, the kidneys are almost invariably found to be greatly altered in appearance. Friedlander describes three distinct changes in the kidney associated with scarlet fever: (1) Initial catar- rhal, the usual form; (2) the large, limp, hsemorrhagic kidney, interstitial septic form; and (3) nephritis, post-scarlatinosa, the glo- merular form. Friedlander's initial catarrhal form probably coincides with the appeara,nces of febrile albumi- nuria or abortive nephritis, and is found when there may have been no special renal symptoms, and when death has resulted from some other complication. The septic form may also have attracted very little attention during life; hsematuria and much albuminuria are rare with this condition. The third form constitutes scarlatinal nephritis, and for descriptive purposes it will be convenient to separate three broadly differentiated types. When death has occurred during the first or second week the kidneys are very little altered in size ; they are engorged, and the capsule can be readily separated. The surface may show radiating red lines of injection or small extra- vasations. On section the whole parenchyma may be of a chocolate hue from intense en- gorgement. From the second to the sixth week the kidneys are enlarged and firm, and the surface is pale and mottled with yellowish spots. These appear- ances extend through the cortical layer, but the medullary substance is hypersemic, from its junction with the cortex almost to the ends of the papillae. The hypereemia is often associated with strige of a deep colour passing along the pyramids. At a later stage contraction occurs, so that the kidneys may be of normal size, or even somewhat smaller. They may still be pale, but they are more firm, and may even be rather difficult to cut. The microscopic changes in scarlatinal neph- ritis mainly affect the glomeruli and the tissues in their neighbourhood. In the early stages the vessels in these parts are found to be crowded with masses of corpuscles, which are most numerous between the vessels of the tuft of capillaries, while they are also frequently found in considerable numbers outside the tuft, but within Bowman's capsule. The vessels of the tuft sometimes rupture, and Bowman's cap- sule becomes filled with blood corpuscles, which are often seen extending down the tubules; compact masses of corpuscles due to haemorrhage may also be found in lines between the tubules. The epithelial cells in the convoluted tubes are enlarged and cloudy, and they may almost obli- terate the lumen, which is further obstructed by granular debris and casts. Similar changes affect the epithelial cells lining Bowman's capsule. At a later stage the round cells in the neighbour- hood of the vessels and round the capsules of the glomeruli proliferate, and the epithelial cells lining Bowman's capsule undergo rapid desqua- mation ; hence the space between the tuft and the capsule is filled with collections of exfoliated epithelium. The capillary tufts may be engorged so that they occupy the whole of the space with- in the capsule, or they may be compressed and relatively empty, owing to the pressure exerted upon them by the desquamated epithelium and the hsemorrhagic effusions. During contraction in the third stage Bow- man's capsule is much thickened, and the whole Malpighian body is larger than usual, owing to the increase of nucleated cells surrounding and com- pressing the capillary tuft. Similar increase of connective-tissue corpuscles is found round the outside of Bowman's capsule, and between the convoluted tubes, which may be compressed and distorted by the new growth. The epithelial cells of the convoluted tubes are generally flat- tened at this stage, and the lumen, which may be larger than in the normal condition, is often filled with debris and casts. In all stages the interlobular arteries are thickened and prominent, the extent of change increasing with the duration of the disease. Chronic Nephritis Syn, — Chronic parenchymatous nephritis, chronic tubal nephritis, chronic catarrhal ne- phritis. The macroscopic appearances of the kidney in chronic nephritis are subject to great variations. Thus, cases which are practically indistinguish- able, so far as symptoms are concerned, may be associated with either large white kidney, or with the smaller granular kidney, or with the speckled kidney. The microscopic examination will, however, generally indicate fundamental points of resemblance. If the disease terminates within a year of the first development of symp- toms, the kidney is, as a rule, found to be larger than usual. Sometimes this enlargement is extreme, and the kidneys may be from twice to three times the normal size. The capsule is usually readily detached, and the surface is smooth and somewhat pale; sometimes after removal of the capsule the surface is finely granvi- lar, and perhaps somewhat torn. There are usually stellate haemorrhages or engorgements of the stellate veins. On section, whitish or yellowish streaks and spots may be found in the cortex, as though the kidneys had been strewn with fine sand. The cortex is considerably thickened, and may nearly equal the thickness