MEDICINE; MEDICAL PRACTITIONER, LAW AS TO 289 Previously to this latter Act practitioners could be, and frequently were, registered in respect of one or more qualifications only, e.g. apothecary or surgeon, and were not legally qualified to practise generally. The position of such persons remains unaltered. They are entitled to practise, in pursuance of the qualifi- cation they originally possessed, in medicine, surgery, or midwifery, or any of them, according as they were previously entitled to practise the same, but not further or otherwise (s. 24). Under sec. 31 of the Act of 1858, which is now repealed, it was decided that a practitioner who only held a partial qualification could not recover for services by him in a capacity for which he held no legal qualification. A surgeon consequently could not recover charges for medicines supplied, unless they were ancillary to surgical treatment {Leman v. Fletcher, 1873, L. R. 8 Q. B. 319). In order to maintain an action the plaintiff must show that he was duly registered at the time when the services were rendered (Act of 1858, s. 22 ; Leinan v. Houseley, 1874, L. R. 10 Q. B. 66 ; Hoivarth v. Brearley, 1887, 19 Q. B. D. 306). Persons already on the register for one qualification may, however, subsequently have a higher degree, or additional qualification, inserted there in addition to or in substitution for the qualification previously registered (Act of 1858, s. 30). Medical diplomas granted in a British posses- sion or foreign country may also be registered, if they are recognised for the time being by the General Council as furnishing a sufficient guarantee of the possession of the requisite knowledge and skill for the efficient practice of medicine, surgery, and midwifery (Act of 1886, ss. 11-17). Possessors of diplomas for pro- ficiency in sanitary science, public health, or State medicine, granted after special examina- tion, which appear to deserve recognition, may have such diplomas entered in the register {ibid. s. 21). They derive therefrom no additional qualification for ordinary practice; but the diplomas are important with a view to obtain- ing certain appointments, such, for instance, as that of medical officer of health. Obtaining or attempting to obtain registration by false pretences is a misdemeanour punishable with twelve months' imprisonment (s. 39). Privileges of Registered Persons.—Only persons registered under the Acts are entitled to call themselves legally qualified medical practitioners (Act of 1858, s. 34). They only are eligible for various appointments {ibid. ss. 33-36), and they only can give valid certificates in cases where certificates of a medical pi'actitioner are required—e.g. for burial, etc. (s. 37). Following similar provisions in the earlier Acts with respect to members of different branches of the medical profession, the Act of 1858, s. 35, exempts persons duly registered VOL. VI from serving on all juries and inquests what- soever, and from serving all corporate, parochial, ward, hundred, and township offices, and from serving in the militia. The position of a registered practitioner, besides the privileges already alluded to, is further protected by penal consequences on those who without due authority assume the title. It is, as already stated, a misdemeanour to attempt to obtain registration without being qualified. Any person, moreover, " who shall wilfully and falsely pretend to be, or take or use the name or title of, a physician, doctor of medicine, licentiate in medicine and surgery, bachelor of medicine, surgeon, general practi- tioner or apothecary, or any name, title, addition, or description implying that he is registered or that he is recognised by law as a physician, or surgeon, or licentiate in medicine and surgery, or a practitioner in medicine, or an apothecary," is liable to a penalty of £20, which may be recovered summarily before magistrates (Act of 1858, s. 40). Fees of Witnesses.—In one respect, at any rate, the claim of medical practitioners to re- muneration for their services stands at present on an unsatisfactory footing. They are often required to give evidence in Courts of justice, and complaints are frequent of the inadequate recompense received for loss of time, and for out-of-pocket expenses besides. The scale of remuneration allowed varies in different Courts, but never errs on the side of liberality; and what may in theory be allowed is frequently reduced by taxing officers, who are practically irresponsible, inasmuch as there is no effective means of appealing from their decisions. The only cases in which adequate remuneration can be secured are those rare ones in which the wit- ness can make a bargain beforehand as to what his fees are to be ; and even then it is sometimes found that supposed bargains cannot be enforced. The hardest cases are those in which evidence has to be given in criminal Courts, where the witness may have to attend de die in diem for a fee not exceeding one guinea per day, without any allowance for the expense of pro- viding a substitute to attend to his practice during his absence on public duty. Power to fix the scale of fees allowable in criminal Courts was given to the Home Secretary in 1851 (14 & 15 Vict. c. 55, s. 5), and under it the scale now in force was issued in February 1858. At present it certainly requires revision. In Scotland a more liberal scale prevails. Fees for giving evidence before coroners are fixed on a rather more liberal scale by the Coroners Act of 1887. Women.—In former times women were con- sidered ineligible for the medical, as for other learned professions. A movement, however, in favour of their admission gained considerable force early in the latter half of the past