523 NAPHTHA Na.phtha,.—An inflammable oil distilled from petroleum (when it consists chiefly of paraffins and naphthenes), from coal-tar (when it contains benzene and toluene), or from shale oil (when it contains olefines and paraffins). Wood naphtha is methyl alcohol {q-v.). Naphthaline or Naphthalene. —A hydrocarbon (Cj^Hg), existing in coal-tar, yielding by oxidation phthalic acid (CgHgO^), and forming with certain other phenols coloured compounds (phthaleins) such as fluorescein and eosin. Naphthaline increases the luminosity of coal-gas; it also acts as an antiseptic and is given internally (dose, 5 to 10 grains) for this purpose {e.g. in typhoid fever), as well as ex- ternally {e.g. in scabies). Naphthol. — A coal - tar substance (CjqHjOH), beta - naphthol or beta - mono - hy- droxy-naphthalene; it has the same pharmaco- logical action as naphthaline and is used in the same morbid states {e.g. internally in typhoid fever in doses of 3 to 10 grains, and externally, as an ointment, in scabies, psoriasis, and ring- worm). Naphthol-Eucalyptol. — A com- pound of beta-naphthol (or alpha-naphthol) with eucalyptol; it is an antiseptic. Naphthol ism.—The morbid state pro- duced by the long use of naphthol as an external application; the kidneys are specially aff'ected (hsematuria, convulsions). Nap h thy I.— The radicle (Ci„H-) of naphthaline; naphthylamine, which turns red when exposed to air, has the formula CJ0H7.NH2. Narceine. — One of the alkaloids of opium; it has the formula C23H29NO9, and has been used as a substitute for morphine. There is a hydrochloride and a meconate. See Opium. NarCO-.—In compound words narco- (Gr. vdpKr], numbness or stiff"ness) signifies relating to numbness, stiff'ness, or sleep; e.g. narcoform (ahypnotic), narcohypnia ("waking numbness "), and narcopepsis (torpid digestion). Narcolepsy.—A malady characterised by an irresistible desire to sleep ; sleeping sick- ness. See Sleep, Normal and Morbid {Morbid Somnolence); Hysteria {Varieties of Attach). Narcomania.—A morbid craving for hypnotics, or the insanity which results from their use. See Morphinomania. Narcosis.—A state of unconsciousness or insensibility due to the action of narcotic drugs or poisons (arising within the system or intro- duced from without). See Anesthesia ; Alco- holism {Acute Symptoms); Opium ; etc. Narcotics. — Drugs or poisons which when swallowed, inhaled, or injected produce soporific or narcotic eff'ects. See Anaesthesia ; Chorea {Treatment); Eclampsia {Curative Treatment, Arresting the Fits, Morphia); In- sanity, General Treatment of {Drugs); La- bour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Faults in the Soft Passages, Opium for Cervical Rigidity); Pharmacology ; and under the various narcotic drugs (Belladonna, Chloral Hydrate, Canna- bis Indica, Hyoscyamus, Opium, Stramonium, etc). Narcotine or Narcotina. See Alkaloids (Vegetable); Opium. Narcotism.—The condition of insensi- bility or stupor produced by the taking of narcotics : narcotisation. Narcyl.—Chlorhydrate of ethylnarceine. Nares.—The nasal passages or nostrils ; the term 7iare (singular) is now hardly ever used. See Epistaxis {Treatment, Local, Plugging the Nares). Narg'Ol.—Nucleate of silver; a compound of nucleic acid and oxide of silver, used in gonorrhoea, conjunctivitis, ulcers, etc. Nasa or Nasha Fever. See Tropics, Unclassbd Fevers of {Nasha or Nahra). Nasal.—Kelating to the nose. See Nose. Nasion.—One of the "fixed points" in craniology; the middle of the naso-frontal suture, a little below the glabella. Nasmyth's Mem brane. — The enamel cuticle of a tooth. NaSO-.—In compound words naso- means relating to the nose; e.g. naso-antral (relating to the nose and to the antrum of Highmore), naso- huccal (relating to the nose and cheek), iiaso- frontal (relating to the nasal and frontal bones), naso-lachrymal (relating to the nose and tear apparatus), naso-palatine (relating to the nose and palate), etc. See Nose. Naso-Pharynx.—^e Ear, Middle, ChronicNon-suppurativeDisease; Meningitis, Tuberculous {Etiology, Middle Ear); Nose, Examination of ; Nose, Diseases of Nasal Orifices and Septum ; Nose, Acute Inflamma- tion ; Nose, Chronic Inflammation ; Nose, Chronic Infective Diseases ; Nose, Post-nasal Adenoid Growths ; Pharynx, Examination of ; Pharynx, Acute and Chronic Pharyngitis ; Pharynx, Chronic Infective Diseases; Ton- sils, Diseases of ; Voice {Resonating Cavities). Natal. See Therapeutics, Health Re- sorts {South Africa). Natality.—The ratio of births to the