MEDICINE, HISTORY OF 275 influence to be felt even in Salerno, the Civitas Hippocratica. Among the compendia may be mentioned the Conciliator of Peter of Abano, the Aggregator of Jacob de Dondi, both of Padua, and the Pandectce Medicinoe of Matthreus Sylvaticus of Salerno; but of chiefest interest to us is the first appearance of English writers, two of whom studied and practised abroad, but one was an Englishman in every sense. These were Gordonio (Bernard Gordon), a Scotsman, professor at Montpellier, whose Lilium Medicina; contains the first full and graphic description of leprosy ; Gilbertus Anglicus, whose Compendium is but an echo of his teacher's Lilium; and John Gaddesden, a graduate of Merton College, Oxford, and physician to Edward III.—a wretched plagiarist, credulous and ignorant even beyond others in his day. Yet his Bosa Anglica was a popular text-book as late as the end of the sixteenth century. Gordon's Lilium was trans- lated into French and Hebrew, and several editions were printed in the fifteenth and six- teenth centuries. It was not without its merits; but admirable as is his description of leprosy, it is evident that he did not distinguish lupus from leprosy, and that much of his account of the causes, consequences, and mode of propaga- tion of "leprosy" must be understood to refer to syphilis, to which alone it is applicable. During this period, the thirteenth to the fifteenth century, more progress was made in surgery, especially in France and Italy—the chief writers on this subject having been Gul. de Saliceto of Piacenza, Lanfranchi of Milan, Guy de Chauliac in France, and John Ardern in England. Mondino de Liucci did good work in anatomy, and Arnold di Villanova in chemistry -—his Breviarium Practice being more than a compilation; while in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries numerous collections of in- telligible reports of cases were published under the name of Consilia, the first since the "histories " of the Hippocratic school; the best of these being those of Gentilis Fulgineus, Bartolomeo Montagnana, and Baverino de Baveriis. The revival of classical learning in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, with the recovery and discovery of the works of ancient Greek and Roman writers and their popularisa- tion by means of the new art of printing, produced a reaction against everything mediaeval which the " Humanists," as the students of classical literature were styled, denounced as barbarous. In medicine the revulsion from the Arabian school and its adaptations was strongest in Italy and in England, the universities of the latter country being greatly influenced by those of the former. But in France the older doctrines died hard, and in Germany the pro- fession was divided between the classical revival and new doctrines of Paracelsus. Rhazes, Avicenna, and the rest were banished from the schools, and learned men possessing a knowledge of Greek translated Hippocrates, Galen, Dioscorides, etc., into Latin, the Italians being the most active in this work. Two Englishmen, however, took their part—Thomas Linacre and John Kaye or Caius, respectively the founders of the College of Physicians and of Caius College, Cambridge. An amusing feature in this intellectual reaction or revolution was the struggle between the advocates of the Arabian practice of blood-letting from a vein remote from the diseased organ and the Galenic of local venesection, which i-ent the universities into contending parties, led to the expulsion of professors on either side, and necessitated in some cases the intervention of emperors and popes. Hitherto men's minds had been swayed by authority, everyone being Addictus jurare in verba viagistri, whether of Hippocrates, Galen, or Avicenna; each one was ever ready to expound and comment on him, but resented criticism as presumption and, never doubting the master's infallibility, looked on dissent as heresy. But just at the time that Martin Luther, himself a learned theologian and loyal son of the Church, raised the standard of revolt against the tyranny and corruption of the papacy, appealing to the learned in Latin, and to the common-sense of the people in their mother-tongue, the medical schools of Germany were rent into contending factions by the ap- pearance of a reformer equally intolerant of authority and reckless of public opinion, but, unlike Luther, vain beyond measure, arrogant, and boastful. Philip Theophrast von Hohen- heim, or as he called himself, Aureolus Theo- phrastus Paracelsus (1493-1541), versed in all the medical knowledge of the day, but with little, if any, acquaintance with the Greek language, while entertaining a certain respect for Hippocrates as a clinical observer, publicly denounced the whole mass of medical doctrine and practice from Galen to his own times as a system of imposture based on ignorance and delusions, if not on conscious fraud. But in- stead of off'ering another drawn from experience and observation—or, like Bacon, pointing out the right road in the search after truth—he, imbued with the neoplatonism and cabalism of Picus Mirandola and Reuchlin, evolved a scheme of the universe and of the nature of man so wild and fantastic that his laborious expositions are well-nigh unintelligible. Denying the pantheistic doctrine of a uni- versal soul equally with the orthodox Christian belief in a personal God, omnipresent in but distinct from His creation, he elaborated an all- pervading analogy between the natural and spiritual worlds, animating the heavenly bodies, the natural elements, and the several organs of the human form with souls—of the working of which all phenomena were the outward mani-